BURNS v. ROSENSTEIN.
Syllabus.

under it would be no bar to the proceeding under the second
indictment. We do not think the proposition is a sound ohe,
as the prisoner was clearly convicted of the same offence which
is charged in the second indictment.
An objection is made to the indictment that it was not signed
hv the district attorney of the United States; but, as the indictment was found by the grand jury, and endorsed as a true bill
by the foreman, and filed in open court according to law, we
(1o not see that there is any error on that subject, certainly
none which goes to the jurisdiction of the court. See Comrnorwealth v. Stone, 105 Mfass. 469.
It is said that the indictment was fatally defective because
it did not sufficiently apprise the prisoner of the nature of the
offence for .which he was to be tried. But he was tried and
convicted for carnally and unlawfully knowing a female under
the age of sixteen years. This was succinctly and clearly set
out in the indictment as the charge, or one of the charges,
against him, which he must have known he was to meet, and
we do not think the objection has any merit.
There may be other objections made by counsel, to the proceedings under which the prisoner was convicted, but none of
them rise to the dignity of questioning the jurisdiction of the
court. The rule upon the warden of the penitentiary is, therefore, discharged and a writ of habectwcopus
.Denied.

BURNS v. ROSENSTEIIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 207. Argued March 18, 1890.-

Decided March 31,1890.

The plaintiffs filed a bill in equity to dissolve a copartnership with the defendants on the ground of violation of the contract of partnership and
mismanagement, and to wind up its affairs in equity, and commenced the
proceedings by attaching the defendants' property. A receiver was
appointed by consent, and defendants answered, assenting to the dissoluVOL. cxxxv-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
tion on the ground of violations of the contract by the plaintiffs. It was
referred to a master to hear and report on the issues of fact, to take an
account of the dealings between the parties, and of all claims for damages arising out of the transactions, and to report. A copy of the report
was furnished both parties before filing. The defendants took no exceptions. The report found that no misconduct or negligence was established on either side, and that the dealings between the parties resulted
in a balance due the plaintiffs. A decree was entered accordingly. In
taxing the costs, the plaintiffs were allowed their proportionate part of
the costs of preserving the personal property attached; feld,
(1) That the defendants' assent to the dissolution of the partnership,
and the winding up of its affairs in chancery, made it unnecessary to
make proof of the special grounds for dissolution set forth in the
bill, or for the court to decree a dissolution;
(2) That it was not open to the defendants to object for the first time
in this court to the report of the master that it proceeded upon
erroneous views of the contract of partnership;
(3) That there was nothing in this case to take it out of the operation
of the rule that this court will not ordinarily review a decree for
costs, merely, in equity.

•L-EQUITY.

The case as stated by the court was as follows:

Rosenstein Bros. (composed of the appellees Julius W. Rosonstein and Leo Rosenstein) and Henry Sellman, of New
York, and J. J. Burns & Co., (composed of Joseph J. Burns
and Robert Tarr,) formed a partnership in the business of
canning fish, more particularly mackerel, and manufacturing
pomace, or fish guano, to be conducted under the name of the
Union Fish Company, on premises owned and occupied by
Burns & Co... at Gloucester, Mlassachusetts. It was provided,
among other things, in the written agreement of partnership,
that Rosenstein Bros. should furnish the capital to carry on
the business, also all material at cost, and sell all the goods
manufactured at the best obtainable prices; that Burns & Co.,
should have charge of and superintend the factory, and devote
all necessary time to the business at Gloucester; that interest
on the capital invested by Rosenstein Bros. should be computed at the rate of six per cent per annum; that Rosenstein Bros. and Henry Sellman, jointly, should be entitled to
five-eighths and J. J. Burns & Co. to three-eighths, of the
net profits of the business, Art. 21; that "all losses, if any,

BURNS v.. ROSENSTEIN..
Statement of the Case.

sustained by reason of bad debts shall be charged to profit
and loss account, and are to be borne by the parties joiiitly, in
the ratio of their stipulated interest," Art. 22; that Burns &
Co. might take from the business fifty dollars per week for
individual use and account, and draw on iRosenstiin Bros.
for funds required in the business in sums of not over fifteen
hundred dollars in any one draft; and that the contract of
partnership should remain in force for the term of five years,
commencing May 1, 1881, and ending April 30, 1886.
The present suit was commenced November ', 1881,' in,:the
Supreme Judicial Court for the county of Essex, Massachusetts. An attachment was sued out against the property of
Burns & Co., and levied upon all-their right, title and interest
in certain personal property, consisting of fish product, and in
two schooners, and also upon a steam engine and other, property in the buildings occupied by the Union Fish Company.
An amended bill of complaint was filed showing that the
object of the suit was to obtain a decree for the dissolution of
the partnership, and a settlement of its affairs under the direction of the court. The dissolution was asked mainly upon the
ground that the defendants had violated the terms of partnership, ahd were impropeily managing the business committed
to their charge. The plaintiffs asked the appointment of a
receiver to take charge of the goods and assets of thepartnership, as well as an injunction restraining the defendant .from
disposing of its property or from collecting the proceeds of
any that had been sold.
By agreement of the parties an order was entered appointing a receiver of all the personal property of the partnership,
with power to put the same in proper condition and sel it for
the best interests of all concerned, and to collect the amourts
due from the trustees or garnishees namedin the writ of attachment, depositing all amounts received in the registry of the
court subject to its orders.
The defendants demurred to the bill on the ground of multifariousness, for want of equity, and because it contained
cause, \of action in respect to which there was a full and complete remedy at law. The suit was removed intb the Circuit

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Court of the United States upon the petition and bond of the
defendants. In that court the demurrer to the bill was overruled, Judge Nelson saying: "The bill states a plain case for
equitable relief. A partner is under no obligation to continue
a member of a partnership when his copartner persistently and
wilfully violates the essential conditions upon which the contract of the partnership rests. He is not under the necessity
of remaining in the firm and resorting to his action at law
upon the partnership contract for redress. He is at liberty
to withdraw himself and his capital from the concern whenever it becomes reasonably certain that the business can no
longer be carried on at a profit, whether through the misconduct of his copartner or from a failure of the business itself ;
so, if he has been induced to enter into the partnership contract through the deceit of his copartner, he may withdraw
whenever the fraud practiced upon him becomes known. In
neither case is he required to continue in the firm until the
partnership expires by limitation of time, but is at liberty at
once to ask for a dissolution and a winding up of the affairs
of the partnership. The bill is not multifarious. It has a simple purpose - the dissolution and winding up of the concern.
Though several grounds for relief are stated, yet they arise
out of the same series of transactions, relate to the same subject-matter, and can be conveniently settled in one suit. They
are all properly joined in one bill."
The defendants thereafter filed an answer controverting all
the material allegations of the petition, particularly those
charging them with dereliction of duty in the conduct of the
business. But they averred "that said plaintiffs without cause
published a notice that they would no further carry on the
business under said contract, and that they by public notice
dissolved, violated, and put an end, so far as they could, to
the same; and the defendants are entirely willing and desirous
that all business connections between them and the plaintiffs
should be dissolved and forever ended, because of the dishonest,
fraudulent and unjust conduct and violations of said contract
by the plaintiffs."
On the 21st of April, 1883, the court below made the follow-

BURNS v. ROSENSTEIIN.
Statement of the Case.

ing order: "On reading the pleadings in the above-entitled
cause and hearing the counsel of the respective parties, and on
consideration thereof, it is ordered that it be referred to
George P. Sanger, Esq., as a master of this court, to hear the
parties and their evidence and report as to all issues of fact
made by the pleadings in said cause, and to take an account of
the dealings and transactions between said parties and all
claims for damages arising out of said transactions."
The special master on the 16th of October, 1885, made his
report, from which it appears that when, in the course of the
hearing before him, an examination of the books was reached,
it was agreed by the parties that the book-keeper of thj plaintiffs, and an expert book-keeper and accountant who had examined the books on both sides for the defendants, should
together go over the books of both plaintiffs and defendants
and draw from them a statement of the condition of the
Union Fish Company at the time the suit was brought, showing the. indebtedness or otherwise of the parties to that company, giving the undisputed and disputed items of account in
separate columns. Statements of that character were prepared and furnished to the special master who made them a
part of his report. After the testimony before him was concluded, but before arguments were heard, each party, at his
request, presented a statement of the damages sustained by the
alleged misconduct of the other party.
A copy of the master's report was furnished the parties
before it was filed. He received no communication from the
defendants or their counsel, but from the plaintiffs he received
a statement of the objections upon their part to his draft of
report. These objections were considered and overruled by
him, and the report was filed October 16, 1885. On the 7th
of December, 1885, no exceptions to it having been filed, it
was confirmed under equity rule 83. And on the 6th of lMay,
1886, when the cause came on for further hearing, and after
argument by counsel, it was adjudged by the court that the
plaintiffs be paid the amount to the credit of the cause in the
registry of the court, namely, $3733.40, and the further sun
of $1679.14, with interest thereon from the date of the writ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the CWurt.

.that is, $2131.94,, and the costs of this suit to be taxed, with
'interest thereon from the date of the decree. ft is suggested
that the above result was'reached in this wise: ,According to
*the report of the master the total liabilities of the Union Fish
Comlany were $18,168.09-to Burns & Co., $3733.87, and t
Rosenstein Bros., $14,434.22. From this sum of $18,168.09
djeduct the assets, that is, the mo4eyin court, $3733.40, and
tM6 balance of such liabilities was $14,434.69, which was the
net loss of the partnership. Charge three-eighthsof this net
loss to Burns & Co., and deduct from.such amount,the liabilities. of the company to them, 'there"remained. the sum of
$1679.14.
From the above decfee the defendants prayed, and were allowed an appeal to this court.
.Mr. Eugene J. -Hadley and Jft. Benjami.

. Rui

r for

appellants.
MMAr. William -F.Slocum for appellees
MP_ JusTi

HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

The special master reported that there was no sufficieut evidence to establish misconduct or negligence upon the part
either of the plaintiffs or of the defendants. This report having beeh confirmed, it is assigned for error~that the court
below did not dismiss the bill; and, that if a case was made
for the dissolution of the partnership, it was error to. proceed
in the distribution of the assets without decreeing such dissolution. The consent of the defendants toa dissolution of the
partnership, as shown by their answer, made it unnecessary
for the plaintiffs to make proof of the special grounds set out
in their bill for such dissolution, and authorized the court to
proceed in the settlement of the accounts of the partners, and
-the distribution of the-assets.- Alid'tthe fact- tallere
was no
formal decree of dissolution is immaterial in view of The pleadingsi and the assent of the parties t6 a decree winding up the
affairs of the partnership, and distributing its property.
It is ilso assigned'for error that the couit below erred in

BURNS v. ROSENSTEIN.
Opinion of the Court.

acting upon the master's interpretation of certain articles of
the partnership contract as a valid part of his report; in construing the partnership contract as requiring losses of capital
to be borne by the partners in the same proportion in which
the contract provided for the distribution of net profits; in
decreeing that any part of the capital put in by the appellees
and not paid back by the assets should be paid by the appellants, and that the appellants should be paid back neither from
the assets nor by the appellees for any part of the capital put
in by them; and in not decreeing priority of payment, in respect of advances found by the master to have been made by
J. J. Burns & Co., to the Union Fish Company, next after
payment of the debts and liabilities due from that company
to outside creditors.
These questions are not open to appellants in this court.
The decree below followed the report of the special master.
And that report was based, in -part, upon statements drawn
from the books of the parties by the accountants selected by
them respectively. Those statements contained the undispqted
and disputed items in separate columns. Tlhe defendants did
not file with the master or in court any exceptions to the report. If the statements by the accountants, or the report of
the special master, were based upon any particular interpretation of the articles of partnership that was prejudicial to the
defendants, itwas their right to file exceptions to the report.
The master was directed to report all issues of fact made by
the pleadings, and to take an account of the dealings and
transactions between the parties, and all claims for damages
arising out of said transactions. lie could not intelligeitly
discharge that duty without adopting some theory as to the
scope and effect of the partnership agreement. If he went
beyond the order of reference, or if the account taken by him

involved a misconception of the provisions of that agreement,
the defendants should have brought those matters to the attention of the court by exceptions to the report. Having failed
to do this, they cannot, in this court, for the first time, object
that the master proceeded upon erroneous views as to the contract between the parties.. Equity Rule 83 ; Broekett v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Brockett, 3 How. 692; McAficken v. Perrin, 18 How. 504,
506; Story v. Livingston, 13 Pet. 359, 366; fedsker v. Bonebrake, 108 U. S. 66, 71.
After the decree below there was a report by the clerk as
to the taxation of costs. The parties having been heard in
respect thereto, an order was made allowing costs to the plaintiffs to the amount of $973.34. The report shows that the
plaintiffs claimed a certain amount for expenses connected with
the preservation and keeping of the personal property (not
including the vessels) attached on the writ. The court disallowed five-eighths of that sum. The only objection urged in
this court to the taxation of costs was the allowance of any
sum whatever to plaintiffs for the preservation of the attached
property. This objection cannot be sustained. It was said
in .Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, that "ordinarily a
decree will not be reviewed in this court for costs merely in a
suit in equity, although the court has entire control of costs as
well as the merits where it has possession of the case on
appeal from final decree." There is nothing in the record to
take the present case out of the general rule. The allegations
of the original bill justified the issuing of the attachment. It
was right that the property taken under it should be cared for,
and as the court found that the plaintiffs were entitled to a
decree against the defendants, a judgment for costs properly
followed; and we perceive no reason why the plaintiffs should
not have been allowed, as part of their costs, a reasonable
amount for the expenses incurred in preserving the attached
property, and for which they became primarily liable to the
officer keeping it. We cannot say, upon the record before
us, that the court below exceeded its discretion in apportioning the expenses thus incurred.
.Decree aJnrmed.

