VICKSBURG &c. RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

and we think this fairly illustrates the relation of the foreign
to the American patent."
The conclusion of the Circuit Court was that the plaintiffs'
patent expired by the expiration of the Bavarian and Austrian
patents.
We have carefully considered the arguments urged in the
briefs of the counsel for the plaintiffs, in connection with the
testimony of their experts, and are of opinion that the views
of the Circuit Court, above quoted, are correct. Its decree is
-Afflrmed.

VICKSBURG, SHREVEPORT AND PACIFIC RAIL-'
ROAD COMPANY v. SMITH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 276. Submitted April 11, 1890.-Decided April 21,1890.

A suit was brought to recover from T. possession of atract of land of
about 35 acres, part of a larger tract of 186 acres, which the plaintiff.
claimed to own. The lessor of T. of the 35 acres was made defendant,
and answered, claiming to own the land sued for and also the rest of the
186 acres. The plaintiff recovered a judgment for the 35 acres, their,
value not exceeding $2000. The value of the 186 acres was about
$10,000. The lessor having brought the case to this dourt by a writ of
error, it was dismissed, on the ground that the amount involved was
not sufficient to give this court jurisdiction, because it did not exceed
#5000, exclusive of costs.

THE case is stated in the opinion

.Mfr. Edward Colston and -Mr. Frank P. S'tubbs for plaintiffs
inerror.
.Mr. A. H. Leonard for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Louisiana, by

OCTOBER TERM. 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Robert N. Smith, Elizabeth A. Smith (wife of Marine Duval,
joined, authorized and ass, ted by her husband), William L.
Smith, Elizabeth W. Smith, (widow of James F. Smith,) citizens of Kentucky, and John S. Smith, a citizen of Colorado,
as legal heirs of William W. Smith, deceased, against George
A. Turner, a citizen of Louisiana.
The petition avers that the State of Louisiana, on the 14th
of May, 1853, sold to William W. Smith a certain tract of
land known as Silver Lake, situated in section 31, township
18, ranges 13 and 14, in the parish of Caddo, in the State of
Louisiana, containing an area of 186.57 acres, at the maximum price of $1.25 per acre, which at the same time was
paid into the treasury of the State by said Smith; that, after
that sale, and on the 24th of February, 18'5, the State issued
a patent for said tract of land to Smith; that it acquired said
tract as swamp.and overflowed land, granted to it by the acts
of Congress of 1849 and 1850, and sold the land to Smith as
swamp and overflowed land; that all sales of land in Louisiana,
claimed by the State as swamp and overflowed lands, whether
made by the United States or by the State, and whether .the
land sold was of that character or not, were confirmed by
the act of Congress of March 2, 1855, entitled ".An act for the
relief of purchasers and locators of swamp and overflowed
lands;" that the act of 1855 was extended to sales made after
its passage, and was continued in force, by the act of March
3, 1857, to confirm all selections of swamp and overflowed
lands by the several States under the acts of 1849 and 1850;,
that the act of 1855 confirmedthe title of Smith to the tract
of land known as Silver Lake, whether it belonged to the
State under the swamp-land acts of Congress, or whether it
belonged to the United States; that Smith acquired a title
to the land both from the State and the United States, by
•purchase and by confirmation by act of Congress; that that
title is paramount to all subsequent claims from the government, and is indefeasible under the act of confirmation of
March 2, 1855; that the plaintiffs are the owners of the tract
of land known as Silver Lake, which is illegally withheld
from them, and-a part of it, containing 40 acres or more, is

VICKSBURG &c. R AILROAD CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

in the possession of George A. Turner, a citizen of Louisiana,
who refuses to deliver to the plaintiffs that part of the land;
and that the part in possession of Turner isworth at least'$600.
The prayer of the petition is for a citation to Turner, and
for judgment for the recovery of said tract of land in his possession, with its revenues, from judicial demand.
Turner was served with a citation, and put in an answer
alleging that he was in the possession of a portion of the property described in the petition, as a tenant of the Vicksburg,
Shreveport and Pacific Railroad Company, and praying that
his said lessor and the owner of the property be made defendant, and he be discharged. An order was made by the court
that the company be made a defendant in his place, and a citation was issued to it, with which its president was duly served.
It was a Louisiana corporation.
The company first filed an exception to the capacity of the
plaintiffs to sue, on the ground that they were not the legal
heirs of Smith, and if they were, were not his sole heirs.
This exception was tried and overruled. A plea and exception of res adjudicatct to the suit was then filed by the company, on the ground that, in a suit entitled " The State of
Louisiana v. IW W. Smith," in the District Court of' Caddo
Parish, Smith put at issue the validity and legality of his title
to the land described in the plaintiffs' petition under the certificate and patent described therein; that, upon a final hearing,
judgment was rendered in that suit decreeing said certificate
and patent null and'void, and that they be cancelled and delivered to the State of Louisiana; and that the plaintiffs, the
heirs of Smith, were bound by the judgment in that suit.
The company also put in an answer to the petition, denying
its allegations, and alleging that the sale or entry of the land,
as set forth in the petition, was cancelled by the register of
the state land office, on the 10th of June,1853, anad the canceflation was duly notified to Smith; that the sale, entry and
patent were without authority of law, for reasons set forth ii
the answer; that the land was never selected by the State of
Louisiana as swamp aid overflowed lands, and never reported
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and never

OCTOBER TERN, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

approved as such by the Surveyor General, the Secretary of
the Interior, or the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and never listed or returned by the Secretary of the Interior
to the State as swamp and cverflowed lands; that the State
had never claimed or acquired the land as such; that the land
did not belong to that class of lands, but to the other class,
known or designated as "shallow lakes," and therefore was
not embraced in the grant from the United States of swamp
and overflowed lands, under the acts of Congress of 1849 and
1850; that the company was the owner of the land, by grant
from the United States to the State, under the act of Congress
of June 3, 1856, to aid in the construction of railroads in the
State, and which was accepted by the State for that purpose;
that, all the requirements of said grant having been complied
with by the State and by the Xicksburg, Shreveport and Texas
Railroad Company, the land described in the petition, being
embraced in.that grant, was acquired by that company, and
duly certified or patented by the United States as belonging
to that company, and had been legally sold or transferred by
it to the defendant company; and that the land described in
the petition and sought to be recovered in the suit was worth
at least $10,000. The answer prayed that the plaintiffs' demand be rejected, and for judgment decreeing the company
"to be the owner of said land and quieted in possession
thereof, and for general relief."
The case was tried by a jury, which rendered the following
verdict: "We, the jury, find for plaintiffs, and that the land
sued for is described in the plat made by W. R. Devoe and
filed'in evidence." A motion for a new trial was made and
overruled, and a judgment was entered against Turner
and the company, adjudging that the plaintiffs were the
owners of the land in controversy, and entitled to its possession, the land "being known and described as follows," and
then giving a description of it by courses and distances, "containing thirty-five WT acres, situated in the parish of Caddo,
Louisiana, and as shown and described on map and survey of
same made by W. R. Devoe, civil engineer, on file and of
record in said cause." The judgment also ordered that writs

VICKSBURG &c. RAILROAD CO. v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

of possession issue in favor of the plaintiffs and against the
defendants; that the plaintiffs have judgment against the
defendants for costs; and that the plea of res adjudlicata be
overruled. The railroad company has brought a writ of error
to review the judgment.
There are six bills of exceptions found in the record. One
of them states that on the trial the company offered three
persons as competent witnesses to prove that- the land described and claimed by the plaintiffs in their petition, under
a certificate and patent from the State of Louisiana. "and
which is claimed by defendant under a grant from the United
States government to the State of Louisiana to aid said railroad, and for which defendant prays judgment, recognizing
their ownership, etc.," was worth $10,000; that the plaintiffs'
counsel objected, on the ground that the only part of the Silver Lake tract of 186.57 acres that was in controversy in this
suit was the part alleged to be.in the possession of Turner,
"and it was admitted by counsel for defendant that said
part or parcel of land was not worth exceeding $2000."
The bill of exceptions states that the objection of the
plaintiffs was sustained by the court, on the ground that
the petition claimed only the number of acres in the possession of Turner; that the judgment in this case, if for the
plaintiffs, could affect only the land held by him; and that
the claim set up by him or by the railroad company did not
make this a suit for more than the number of acres of land
claimed by the plaintiffs, " which is iabout forty acres, more
or less, and is shown by admission of counsel not to be worth
more than two thousand dollars."
The plaintiffs move to dismiss the writ of error, on the
ground that the matter in disput6 does not exceed the sum of
$5000, exclusive of costs. The railroad company contends that
the plaintiffs, by their petition, claim to be the owners of the
entire Silver Lake tract of 186.57 acres; that the company, by
its answer, also claims title to the entire tract; that it is stated
by the court, in one of the bills of exceptions, that, if the suit
involRes title to the 186.5[ acres, the land "is worth about
$10,000, as is admitted by counsel for plaintiff ;" and that,
therefore, this court has jurisdiction of the writ of error.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

But we are of opinion that this court is without jurisdiction
of the case. All that the plaintiffs, in their petition, claimed
to recover was the part' of the land which was in t"he possession of Turner, alleged therein to contain 40 acres or more.
The answer alleged that the land sought to be recovered in
the suit was worth at least $10,000. and prayed that the plaintiffs' demand be rejected, and for judgment decreeing the
company "to be the owner of said land." This put in issue
only the land in the possession of Turner. The judgment is
limited to a piece of land described by metes and bounds, and
containing 3518 acres, as shown by a map and survey of the
same, on file and of record in the cause. The value of that
parcel of land is shown clearly to be not over $2000, and this is
conclusive as to our jurisdiction. Elgin v. .Marshall, 106
U. S. 578, and cases there cited; Gpeli7 City v. .Daniel, 109
U. S. 108; Bruce v. Manchester & Eeene Railroad,117 U. S.
514; Gibson v. Skh~feldt, 122 U. S. 24.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. :MILLER v. RAUM.
EROR TO THIE SUP EME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUAIA.
No. 1572. Submitted April 7, 1890.-Decided April 21, 1890.

When the Commissioner of Pensions, in executing an instruction from the
Secretary of the Interior to increase a pension, gives a construction t6
a statute which had not been construed by the Secretary, but which had
been left open to the commissioner to construe, mandamus does not lie
to compel the commissioner to give a different construction to it.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
.fr. J.G. Bigelow for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.Assistant Attorney General Maury for the defendant
in error.

