'OCTOBER

TERM, 1889.

Syllabus.

MANSFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TH1
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 239. Argued and submitted March 28, 1890.-Decded May 5, 1890.

In Illinois, the unsuccessful party in an action of ejectment is entitled, by
statute, upon the payment of all costs, to have the judgment vacated and
'a new trial granted, but no more than two new trials can 'be granted to
the same party under the statute. This statute governs the trial of
actions of ejectment in the courts of the United States sitting in Illinois.
In an action of ejectment, in Illinois, where the title of one of the parties
depends upon a deed made by a trustee, invested with the legal title, and
with' power to sell and convey to the purchaser upon advertisement and
sale, it is not material to inquire -the deed from the trustee not appearing upon its face to be void -whether the trustee conformed to all the
terms of his advertisement for sale.
By the statute of Illinois, all deeds, mortgages, and other instruments of
writing, authorized to be recorded, take effect and are in force from and
after the time of filing the same for record, and .not before, as to creditors and purchasers without nbtice; and all such deeds and title papers
must be adjudged void as to such creditors and subsequent purchasers,
until the same be filed for record. Held, That although a grantee in a
quitclaim deed is a purchaser within the meaning of the statute, and the
prior recording of such a deed will give it a preference over one previously executed but not recorded until after the quitclaim deed, yet
the grantee in the latter deed is charged with notice of what may be
done under a trust deed conveying the same lands, filed for record before the quitclaim deed, and his rights are, therefore, subject to those
of. the grantee in a deed from the trustee, not filed for record until after
the quitclaim was recorded. Whatever is sufficient notice to put a purchaser of land. on inquiry is sufficient notice of an unrecorded deed.
Where distillery premises, in the occupancy of a distiller, who is operating
the same under a lease to expire at a specified time, are seized and sold
by a collector of internal revenue for taxes due from the distiller to the
government, a sale of such premises, by the collector, by the summary
mode of notice and publication provided in Section 3196 of the Revised
Statutes, for the taxes so due, will pass to-the purchaser only the interest of the delinquent distiller, and will not affect the interest in the
premises, either of the owner of the fee or of a third person having a
lien thereon, even where the government holds a waiver, executed by the
owner of the fee or by such third person having a lien, consenting that
the distillery premises may be used by the distiller for distilling spirits

MANSFIELD .v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

327

Opinion of the Court.
subject to the provisions of law, and expressly stipulating that the lien
of the United States for taxes shall havb priority of any and all interest
and claims which the waiver may have to the distillery and premises.
In the case of such a waiver, the interest of the owner of the fee or the
liens on the premises held by other persons, cannot be affected except by
a suit in equity to which they are parties, as provided in Section 3207 of
the Revised Statutes.

EiJurmErT. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiff sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion.
Mri . Benry B. .Mason, for plaintiff in error, submitted on

his brief.
XAr. IF.

. Blake for defendant in error.

Mm. JuSTICE ITAniA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action in the nature of ejectment. It was
brought by the plaintiff in error, December 24, 1879, to recover from the defendant in error the possession of a tract of
land in Henderson County, Illinois, containing ten acres more
or less, and upon which was a distillery. The plea was, not
guilty of unlawfully withholding the 5remises described in
the declaration. There were three trials of the case, each
time by the court, pursuant to a written stipulation of the
parties waiving a jury. Tapon the first trial there was-a judgment for the defendant. At the instance of the plaintiff a
new trial was granted in conformity with a statute of Illinois,
which provides that at any time within one year after a judgment, either upon default or verdict in an action of ejectment,
the party against whom it is rendered, his heirs or assigns,
shall be entitled, upon the payment of all costs, to have the
judgment vacated and a new trial granted; no more, however, than two new trials to be granted to the same party
under the statute. Rev. Stats. Ill. 1845, p. 208, § 30; 1874,
p. 447, § 35; 1 Starr & Curtis' Anno. Stat. 989. The first
new trial under this statute' is the right of the unsuccessful
party, and is not dependent upon the discretion of the court.
Vance v. Schuyler, 1 Gilman, 160; Biggs v. Savage, 4 Gil-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

man, 129; Emmon- v. Biskop, 14 Illinois, 152; CMamberlin v.
MeCarty,63 Ilinois, 262; Lowe v. Foulke, 103 Illinois, 58. These
statutory provisions govern: the trials of actions of ejeotment

in the courts of the United States sitting in Illinois. Equator
'Company v. HaZI, 106 U. S. 86. At the second trial there
was a judgment for the plaintiff. The defendant then took a
new trial under the statute, and when the case was last tried
the court ruled that, upon all the evidence, the law did not
authorize a recovery by the plaintiff, and gave judgment for
the defendant. The present writ of error brings up that judgment for review.
The parties entered into a written' stipulation as to the
principal facts. The main question in the case arises out of a
sale by a collector of internal revenue of the premises in dispute, including the distillery thereon, for taxes due froin the
distiller.
The facts, so far as it is necessary to state them, may be
thus summarized:
On the 20th of September, 1873, the Bank of Chicago was
the owner in fee of the premises. It executed to the United
States, April 22, 1874, in conformity with the statute of the
United States, what is called a waiver, which recited that
George E. Hinds intended to carry on the business of distilling and manufacturing high wines in the distillery on these
premises, and contained the following provisions i' "And
whereas the undersigned, the Bank of Chicago, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of. Illinois,
of the county of Cook and the State of Illinois, has an interest in the title of said lot of land and distillery and appurtenances: Therefore, in order to enable the said George E.
Hinds to carry on said business on said lot of land in said distillery, and to comply with the requirements of the eighth
section of the act of Congress, approved July 20th, A.D. 1868,
and in consideration thereof, the said bank does hereby express
and give its consent that said distillery and premises may be
used by said Hinds for the purpose of distilling spirits, subject
to the provisions of law; and the said bank does hereby expressly stipulate that the lien of the United States for taxes

MANSFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

329

Opinion of the Court.

and penalties shall have priority of any and all its interest
and claims to said ditkillery and premises, and that in case of
the forfeiture of the distillery premises or any part thereof
the title of the same shall vest in the United States, discharged from any such claim or interest which the said bank
has or may have in and to the same, and with the express
understanding that this waiver shall take effect and be in
force on and after this date." This document was recorded the
day succeeding its execution,, in the office of the recorder of
the county where the land lies.
The bank, on the 10th of July, 1874, executed to Isaac P.
Coates a deed or instrument, which was duly recorded on the
30th of March, 1875, conveying various parcels or tracts of
land, including the one in controversy, in trust to dispose of the
same at public or private sale, and apply the proceeds to the
payment of its debts and liabilities. Coates executed, May 3,
1875, under section 3262 of the Revised Statutes, a waiver similar to the one above referred to, and which by its terms was
to take effect May 10, 1875. This was also placed on record.
By quitclaim. deed executed on the same day -May 3, 1875
- Coates, as assignee, conveyed the premises in dispute to
Elisha H. Turner, of Burlington, Iowa. The consideration recited was $8500, paid by the grantee. This deed was recorded
May 6, 1675, together with the waiver that Coates had executed. Turner, also, on the same day, executed and placed
upon record a similar waiver to the United States.
On May 6, 1875, Turner conveyed the premises to George F.
Westover, of Chicago, in trust, to secure the payment of three
promissory notes given by Turner for the price of the premises,
all dated May 6, 1875, and payable to the order of Isaac P.
Coates, assignee; one for $1500 due July 1, 1875; one for
$3000 due May 1, 1876; and one for $3000 due May 1, 1877;
each note drawing interest at the rate of eight per cent per
annum until due, and ten per cent after maturity, This deed
provided, among other things, for a sale by the trustee upon
default by Turner in the payment of the notes or any part
thereof, or of the interest accruing thereon, and for a conveyance to the purchaser. It gave the trustee power to adjourn

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the sale from time to time, at discretion, and constituted him
attorney for the grantor to execute and deliver deeds to the
purchaser or purchasers; applying the proceeds to the payment
,of the notes and for other purposes specified, and reconveying
to the grantor, after the objects of the trust were accomplished,
such part of the premises as remained unsold. This deed was
recorded the day of its execution, and at the same time with
the deed from Coates to Turner.
In conformity with the terms of the trust deed, Westover,
on the 1st day of September, 1876, advertised the premises to
be-sold, at public vendue, on the 7th day of October, 1876, to
the highest bidder for cash, together with all the right, title,
benefit and equity of redemption therein of Turner, his heirs
and assigns. The advertisement stated that the sale was because of default in the payment of the first two above-described
notes of Turner to Coates, and of the interest due thereon, and
because of the application by the legal holders of the notes to
the trustee to sell and dispose of the premises under the authority conferred by the trust deed. A sale was .made by the
trustee on the day and at the place named in the notice.
By quitclaim deed, dated October 9, 1876, and duly acknowledged the next day, Westover conveyed-the premises to
Coates, as purchaser at the trustee's sale. The deed described
the default, on account of which the sale was made, as having
occurred "in the payment of the second of said notes, and the
interest on the second and third notes," and stated that the
premises were sold, under the advertisement, on the day and
year and at the place mentioned, and that Coates became the
purchaser. This deed was duly acknowledged on the 10th
day of October, 1876, but was not filed for record and recorded
until December 22, 1879. ' By quitclaim deed, dated December 18, 1879, acknowledged the succeeding day, and filed for
record December 22, 1879, Coates and wife conveyed the
premises to the plaintiff, Howard Mansfield.
The stipulation between the parties states that "December
16, 1876, the said real estate in controversy was seized, and
afterwards a sale made by the United States collector of internal revenue for the 4th district of Illinois, for the non-pay-

MANSFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

331

Opinion of the Court.

ment of taxes and assessment of internai revenue against
George E. Hinds, a distiller operating-under a lease expiring
May 1, 1877, the distillery on the said property in controversy,
sufficient goods, chattels or other effects to-satisfy such taxes
and assessments not having been found by said collector;"
also, .'that George F. Westover and Isaac P. Coates received
no notice of such seizure and sale, (prior to said sale,) and only
knew of such seizure and sale by reports long after such
seizure and sale occurred." The collector's advertisement was
on December 21,1876, and was for *thesale,.on the 10th of January, 1877, of "th6 property generally known as the Sagetown
or Turner distillery, lately operated by George E. Hinds, consisting of 10 acres, more or less, with the distillery buildings
thereon," etc. The report of that sale shows that Albert
W. Parsons, of Burlington, Iowa, became the purchaser of
the property sold by the collector, at the price of .$2240, the
amount of the assessments, liabilities and costs claimed by the.
government. The property not having bean redeemed within
the time prescribed by the laws of Illinois, and T. W. Barhydt,
trustee for the Merchants' National Bank of Burlington,
Iowa, having become the owner, by assignment, of the certificate of purchase given to Parsons, the collector, November
4, 1878, made a deed to Barhydt, trustee, conveying all the
right, -title and interest of the United States. That d.eed was
acknowledged November 14, 1878, and recorded Decenber
22, 1879. The defendant claims title under the collector's sale
and deed. It also claims under a quitclaim deed executed to
it by Elisha H. Turner and wife, of date May 14, 1878, which
was acknowledged on that day, and filed for record October
28, 1878. This last deed purported to have been given "for
the consideration of good and valuable considerations hereby
acknowledged, and one dollar," and to "convey and quitclaim" Turner's interest in the premises.
Our attention will be first directed to certain objections
urged by the defendant to the plaintiff's title. Its contention
is that the.power conferred upon Westover by the trust deed
of May 6, 1875, was not so executed as to pass the title to
Coates, the purchaser at the trustee's sale of October 7, 1876.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

This objection is based upon two grounds, the first of which
is that the trustee's advertisement stated that the sale was by
reason of the default in the payment of the first two promissory notes given by Turner to 0o9ates, and of the interest due
on' those notes, whereas the deed from Westover to Coates
recites that the default was in respect to the second note, and
the interest on the second and third notes. The second ground
is, that the trust deed authorized the trustee, upon default in
the payment of the notes or of any part thereof, pr of the interest aeburing thereon, and after advertisement, to sell the
premises and all the right and. equity of redemption of the
grantor "at public vendue, to the highest bidder for cash, at
the premises or at the front door of the court-house," in the
county where the premises were, "at the time appointed in
said advertisement, or may adjourn the sale from time to time,
at discretion;" and that while the advertisement fixed the
hour of 11 o'clock of the forenoon of October 7,'1876, as the
time of the sale, the deed to Coates, althougti-reciting that
the sale occurred "upon the day and year and at the place"
mentioned in the advertisement, was silent as to the hour of
the day on which the sale took place. These objections - if,
under any circumstances, available to Turner or to those claiming under him- are of no consequence in this action involving simply the legal title to the premises. The trustee had
power to sell upon notice, and to convey the legal title to the
purchaser. He did sell upon notice which described the
nature of the default upon the part of Turner that made a
sale necessary. While the deed does not accurately state the
particulars of such, default, it does recite a sale pursuant to the
notice, and makes that notice a part of the deed' Neither
this error in its mere recitals, nor its silence as-to the precise
hour of the day when the sale occurred, made the deed void
upon its face, or ineffectual as a conveyance of the legal title
by a trustee invested with poxver to sell upon notice, and to
convey the title to the purchaser. Ewster v. Burke, 81 Illinois, 436, 439; Graham v. Anderson, 42 Illinois, 514, 517.
Another' contention of the defendant is, that, independently
of any right acquired under the collector's sale and convey-

MANSFIELD 6. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

333"

Opinion of the Court.

ance, its title, as derived from Turner's quitclaim deed of May
'14, 1878, filed for record October 28, 1878, must prevail in
this action against the plaintiff's title, derived from-the d~ed
of Westover to Coates, not filed for record, until December
22, 1879. This contention is based upon that provision of the
statute of Illinois which declares that "all deeds, mortgages
and other instruments of writing which are authorized t6 be
recorded, shall take effect and be in force from and after the
time of filing the same for record, and not before, as to
all creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice; and all
such deeds and title papers shall be adjudged void as to all
creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice, until the
same shall be filed of record." Rev. Stats. Ill. 1845, p. 108,
§ 23; 1874, p. 278, c. 30, § 30; 1 Starr & Curtis, p. 591, § 31.
The defendant claims to be a subsequent purchaser from Turner without notice of the prior sale and conveyance by Westover to Coates. It relies upon those cases in the Supreme
Court of Illinois which hold that "a deed of release and quitclaim is as effectual for the purpose of trausferring title to land
as a deed of bargain and sale; and the prior recording of such
deed will give it a preference over one previously executed, but
which was subsequently recorded. In this respect there is no.
distinction between different forms of conveyance. As a general rule, the one first recorded must prevail over one of older
execution, when made in good faith, and when it appears to
have been the intention, of the parties to convey again the
same lands which had previously been conveyed." ".M Connel
v. Reed, 4 Scammon, 117. See also _ennedy v. _Northup, 15'
Illinois, 148,154; Holbrook v. Diokenson, 56 Illinois, 497.; Eo
ham v. Little, 59 Illinois, 509. So in -Brown v. Banner Coal
&f Coal Oil Company, 97 Illinois, 214, 219: "The land being
within the description, the grantees under this quitclaim deed
are purchasers; and nothing indicating bad faith or notice of
the former sale, the unrecorded deed, as against them, was
inoperative until recorded, and not being -recorded until after
the record of the deed of release, by the very word of our
statute, cannot prevail."
We do not perceive that these cases sustain the position of

334-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant. Turner did not have the legal title to the
premises at any time after the execution of his deed to Westover. The legal title was in Westover from the date of Turnbr's conveyance to him, May 6, 1875, until the formers'deed
fo. Coates of the 9th of October, 1876. Granting that the
defendant, when it received the quitclaim deed of 1878, was
a. purchaser, - although'it does not appear affirmatively that
it paid anything of value to Turner, - it was not, within the
meaning of the statute, a purchaser without notice; for it was
informed by the record of deeds that the legal title was in
'Westover in trust to secure the notes held by Coates, and that
Turner's interest in the property, after the execution of that
deed, ,arose out of the clause requiring the trustee, after the
o9bjects of the trust were attained, to reconvey to him such of
the premises as remained unsold. Turners deed to the defendant, aswe have seen, only purported to pass his interest
in the premises, The-defendant did not acquire by that deed
the legal title; for the legal title had long before that been
conveyed to Westover: In Illinois an unrecorded deed will
pass the title, except as to creditors and subsequent purchasers
without notice. But as the deed of trust to Westover was
recorded before Turner's conveyance to the defendant, the
latter took with notice of what inight be done under the trust
deed. Snapp v. Peirce, 24 Illinois, 156, 157. In Farrarv.
Payne, 73 Illinois, 82, 88, in which the title of one of the par-ties arose out of a sale under an attachment levied on the interest of the grantor in certain real estate, covered by a trust
deed, after that deed was recorded, - the deed to the purchaser at the sale under the attachment being filed for record
before the deed to the purchaser at the trustees sale, - the
court said: "The trust deed had been recorded previous to the
attachment, and that was enough. The published notice of
.the sale was all the required notice of any proceeding under
'the trust deed. The recording of *thetrust deed gavp notice
of its. existence to subsequent claimants of the equity of re4emption, :and'pointed out the source of information of what
might be done in pursuance of the.deed, and they were bound
to take notid'e 'of the proceeding thereunder. The title of

iASFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

335

Opinion' of the. Court.

Cranston [the purchaser at the trustee's' sale] related back to
the execution of the deed of trust. The subsequent proceed.
ings under th6 deed of trust were connected with and in aid
of the title conveyed by that deed." This language was cited
with approval in Heaton v. Prather,84 Illinois, 330, 333,'the
court adding: "It was also held in Buei$ v. '.Ark, 15 Illinois, 540, and Hankinson- v. Barboup, 29 Illinois, 80, that
whatever is suifficient to put a purchaser of land on inquiry is
sufficient notice of an unrecorded deed." It results that; as
between Westover, Coates and Turner, the legal title passed
to Coates'before the eiecution of Turner's quitclam deed;
and that title, being of record when this 'action was brought,.
relates back to the date of the trust deed to Westover, and
was not affected by the intermediate deed made by Turner to
the defendant.
This disposes of all the questions arising out of the plaintiff's
chain of title that we deem important-to notice.
We come now to the examination of the question relating
to the seizure, sale and conveyance by the collector of internal revenue. We have seen that such seizure occurred on the
the 16th day of December, 1876, previous to which time there
had been placed upon record a deed by Turner, conveying the
premises to Westover in trust to secure the payment of three
notes, aggregating $7500, given by Turner to Coates for the
price of the property, two of which notes were past due when
the collector made his seizure; and previous to which time,
also, the legal title had been, by deed duly acknowledged, conveyod to Coates as the purchaser at the sale made by the
trustee. This deed to Coates not having been recorded at the
time of the seizure and sale by the collector, what interest in
the premises passed by the collector's sale and deed? If, as
contended, the collector's sale and deed passed, and, under the
statute, could have passed, nothing more than the distiller's
interest in the premises, - which was a leasehold interest ceasing May 1, 1877, - then.the court below erred in not rendering
judgment for the plaintiff, as the holder of the legal title. "This
question depends upon the meaning to be given to numerous
sections of the Revised Statutes to be found in Title 35, "Internal Revenue."

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Those statutory provisions must be considered as a whole in
order that the purpose of Congress in enacting them may be
understood. The material ones are as follows:* If any person"liable to tax" fails to pay the taxes assessed against him
within the time prescribed, the collector may "make distraint
therefor as provided by law." § 3185. The tax so due from
any person "liable to. pay" it, together with the interest,
penalties and costs that may accrue in addition thereto, is a
lien in favor of the government upon all property and rights
of property "belonging to such person." § 3186. The goods,
chattels and effects, including stocks, securities and evidences
,of debt 1%
of the person delinquent as aforesaid," may be distrained and sold for such taxes in the manner provided. § 3187.
The collector's certificate of the sale of such persQnal property, securities, and evidences of -debt transfers to the purchaser all right, title and interest therein "of such delinquent."
§ 3194. In case of the insufficiency of such goods, chattels
or effects of the delinquent, to satisfy the taxes due from him,
the collector may seize- and sell real estate. § 3196. Besides
making publication in a newspaper of the county, and posting
at the nearest post-office,. notice of sale, in the case of the
seizure of real estate by the collector, must be given by the
officer to the person "whose estate it is proposed to sell,"
by giving "him in hand, or leaving at his last or usual place
of abode, if he has any .such within the collection district
where said estate is situated, a notice, in writing, stating what
particular estate is to be sold, describing the same with reasonable certainty, and the time when and the place where said
officer proposes to sell the same." § 3197. When real estate
is sold by the collector, he must give to the purchaser'a certificate of purchase describing the real estate purchased, for whpse
taxes it was sold, the name of the purchaser, and -the price
paid for the property, which shall be followed by a deed to
the purchaser if the property is -not redeemed in due time.
§'3198. Such deed shall be yrima facie evidence of the facts
thereiu stated, and, if the proceedings of the officer, as set
forth, have been substantially in accordance with the provisions of law, shall be considered and operate as a conveyance

MANSFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

337

Opinion of the Court.

of all the right, title and interest "the party delinquent" had
in and to the real estate thus sold at the time the lien of the
United States attached thereto. § 3199. When the property,
real and personal, so seized and sold, is insufficient to satisfy
the claim of the government, other property liable to seizure,
"of the person against whom such claim exists," may be seized
and sold, until the amount due "from him," together with all
expenses, is fully paid. § 3205. When real estate is seized for
taxes, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue may direct the
institution of a suit in chancery, in a District or Circuit Court
of the United States, to enforce the lien of the United States
for tax upon any real estate, or to subject any real estate
owned "by the delinquent," or in which "he" has any right,
title or interest to the payment of such tax; to which suit
all persons having liens upon, or claiming any interest in, the
real estate sought to be subjected as aforesaid "shall be made
parties," and "be brought into court as provided in other suits
in chancery; and in which suit the court shall adjudicate all
matters involved therein, and finally determine "the merits
of all claims to and liens upon the real estate in question, and,
in all cases where a claim or interest of the United States
therein is established, shall decree a sale of such real estate,
by the proper officer of the court, and a distribution of the
proceeds of such sale according to the findings of the court in
respect to the interests of the parties and of the United'
States." § 3207. Every proprietor or possessor of, and every
person interested in the use of any still, distillery, or distilling
apparatus, are jointly and severally liable for the taxes.imposed
by law on the distilled spirits produced therefrom, and the tax
shall be a first lien on the spirits distilled, the distillery used
for distilling the same, the stills, vessels, fixtures and tools
therein, "the lot or tract of land whereon the said -distillery is
situated, and on any building thereon, from the time said
spirits are .in existence as such until the said tax is paid."
§ 3251. If the distiller "defrauds or attempts to defraud the
United States of the tax on the spirits distilled by him, or any
part thereof," he shall "forfeit the distillery and distilling
apparatus used by him, and all distilled spirits and all raw'
vOL. cxxx

-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

materials for the production of distilled spirits found in the
distillery and on thb distillery premises," and shall be fined not
less than $500 nor more than $5000, and be imprisoned not
less than six montths nor more than three years. § 3257. The
bond of the distiller shall not be approved "unless he is the
owner in fee, unencumbered by any mortgage, judgment or
*other lien of the lot or tract of land*on which the distillery is
situated, or unless he files with the collector, in connection
-with his notice, the written consent of the owner of the fee,
and of any mortgagee, judgment creditor or other person
having a lien thereon, duly acknowledged, that- the premises
may be used for the purpose of distilling spirits, subject to the
provisions of law, and expressly stipulating that the lien of
the United States for taxes and penalties shall have priority of
such mortgage, judgment or other incumbrance, and that in
case of the forfeiture of -th6 distillery premises, or of any part
thereof, the title of the same shall vest in the United States,
discharged from such' mortgage, judgment or other incumbrance."' § 3262.
What effect did the above waivers in favor of the United
States have upon the title to the tract, of land on which
the distillery stood? That is the vital question in- this case.
The contention of the defendant is, that those waivers entitled
the government, when enforcing its claim for taxes, to treat
the premises just as if they were owned by the delinquent
distiller. This view is based upon that part of § 3262 requir-.
ing the waiver to show the consent of the owner of the fee, or^
of the mortgagee judgment creditor or other person having
a lien thereon, that the premises be used for the purpose of
distilling spirits, "subject to the provisions'of law." But this
does not mean that an interest in the premises passes by the
waiver to the distiller, even for a time. It is true that the
person executing the waiver, whether he owns the fee or holds
simply a lien .upon the premises, consents that the taxes ac-,
cruing to the government shall'be a first lien on the distillery
and on the lot or tract of land on which it stands. This con%structionis supported by' the requirement that the waiver
'shall. expressly stipulate that the lidn of. the United Statgs for

MA-NSFIELD v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO:

339

Opinion of the Court.

taxes and penalties shall havepriorityof-any mortgage, judgment or other incumbrance held by the person giving the
waiver. In other words, if the person executing the waiver
owns the fee, the government, witli his consent, is to have a
first lien on the distillery premises; if he holds an incumbrance simply, then the lien of the United States is to have
priority over that incumbrance. But in neither case, does the
distiller acquire an interest in the premises; in neither, does
the government acquire anything more than a first or prior
lien.
But in what mode may the government enforce its prior
lien? In order to collect the taxes due from Hinds, the distiller, it might have instituted a suit in equity, to which not
only the distiller, who had simply a leasehold interest, but all
persons having liens upon, or claiming any interest in, the
premises could be made parties; in which suit, it would have
been the duty of the court to determine finally the merits of
all claims to and liens upon the property, and to order a sale
distributing the proceeds among the parties according to their
respective interests. Of course, the United States having, by
stipulation, priority of lien, would have been first paid out of
the proceeds. But no such course was pursued. The officers
of the government preferred to adopt the summary method of
sale. by the collector upon notice and publication, as provided
for in § 3197. It may be conceded that if the distiller had
been the owner of the fee, a sale in that mode would have
passed his interest subject to the rights of any prior incum
brancer, and subject to the right of any subsequent incumbrancer to redeem the premises. But the delinquent distiller
had no interest except a leasehold interest, and that e xpired, aswe have seen, on the 1st of -May, 1877. We are of
opinion that the collector's sale in the summary mode prescribed in § 3197 passed, and under the statute could have
passed, nothing more than the interest of the delinquent distiller. When the collector distrains and sells personal property for taxes, his certificate, by the express words of the
statute, (§ 3194,) transfers to the purchaser the right, 'title
and interest of the delinquent in the property sold. When he

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sells real estate for taxes, the statute, in terms equally explicit,
(§ 3199,) declares that his certificate of purchase shall be con:
sidered and operate as a conveyance of the right, title and
interest the party delinquent had in the real estate so sold.
Now, if Congress intended to invest the collector 4ith authority to sell, by the summary process of notice and publication, the interest of any other person than the delinquent
distiller, the statute would have described a certificate that
'would pass the interest of.such person in the property sold.
The provision that the certificate of purchase shall pass the
interest of the delinquent in the property sold by the collector excludes, by necessary implication, the interest of any
other person. This is made clear by the fact that the statute,
'in the 6ase of a sale by the collector, requires notice to "the
person whose estate it is proposed to sell," '(§ 3197,) which
person is, of course, the one who is delinquent in the matter
of taxes. Any other construction would impute .to Congress
the purpose, in order that the' taxes against the delinquent
distiller, having only aleasehold interest, might be collected,
to seize and sell the interest of the owner of the fee, and to
destroy the lien of an incumbrancer, without giving either
an opportunity to be heard.
It i' said that,, under this interpretation of the statute,- the
execution of the waiver was a useless requirement, since, withont. such waiver, the government had the right to sell the
leasehold interest of the tenant distiller. This view is more
plausible than-sound. By the-waiver the government acquired
one thing it -would not have had without it; namely, a lien
-upon the. premises prior to "that held by Coates as security
for the notes specified in the deed of trust to Westover. And
it acquired the right, by a suit in equity, to have sold, under
the decree of a court, not only the distiller's leasehold interest,
but the fee in the "premises, and:to have obtained priority in
the distribution of the. lroceeds over the person giving the
waiver, whatever -his interest might have been. It is of no
consequence that the collector's notice of sale did not, specify.
the leasehold interest as the thing he proposed to sell. His
authority to sell, upon notice and. publication, was given by

MANSFIELI) v. EXCELSIOR REFINING CO.

341

Opinion of the Court.

the statute, and was fettered by the condition that he could
give a certificate of purchase passing the interest of the delinquent. He had no authority, in that summary mode, to sell
an& convey the interest of one who was not a delinquent.
His deed -if construed as conveying anything more than the
interest of the government- shows upon its face, in connection with the statute, that he attempted to convey what he
had no power to convey, the fee in the premises. As a conveyance of such fee, it was a nullity. The government neglected to pursue the only mode by which the fee could be sold;
namely, a suit in equity, in which all persons interested in the
property could have been made parties. When. the distiller
was in default in respect to taxes, it was for the proper officers
of the do vernment to elect whether they would seek satisfaction of its' demands by means of a seizure and sale by the collector of the distiller's interest only, or by. a suit to which all
persons having claims upon the premises on which the government had a lien should be made parties. They -chose to adopt
the former method, under which only the interest of the delinquent distiller could be seized and sold. That interest being
only a leasehold interest, the pu::chaser at the collector's sale
acquired nothing more.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that the property was not
redeemed from the collector's sale within the time prescribed
by the laws of Illinois. It is sufficient to say that no redemption was necessary. All that the purchaser got was the leasehold interest of the distiller, and that it is agreed, ceased in.
May, 1877.
It is proper to say that the proceedings for the sale of
these premises were not taken under ay provision ,of the
statute relating to the title vesting in the United States in
case of the forfeiture of the -distillery preldises. A forfeiture could not have occurred unless the distiller defrauded,
or attempted to defraud, the government of the taxes due
from him. Sec. 3257; United States v. Stowell, 133 U: S. 1.
It is admitted that there was no ground for forfeiture by
reason of the non-payment of the taxes due from the distiller
Hinds.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

Upon the whole case We are of opinion that the legal title
of the plaintiff imust prevail in this action.
The judgment i8 reverged and the cauee remanded with directions to enterjudgment for the plaintif.

YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. BERKSHIRE NATIONAL RANK.
BERKSHIRE NATIONAL BANK v. YALE
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

LOCK

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 281, 262. Argued April 11, 14, 15, 1890. -

Decided May 5, 1890.

Claim 3 of reissued letters patent No. 7947, granted November 13, 1877
to James Sargent, for an "improvement in combined time-lock, combination lock, and bolt-work for safes," the original patent, No. 195,539,
having been granted to Sargent, September 25, 1877; namely, "3. The
combination, with the bolt-work of a safe or vault-door,-of a combination
or key lock controllable mechanically from the exterior of said door,
with a time-lock having a lock-bolt or obstruction for locking and
unlocking controllable from the interior of the door, both of said locks
being arranged so as to rest against or connect with the bolt-work, the
time-lock being automatically unlocked by the operation. of the timemovement, both 'of said locks being independent of each other, and
arranged to control the locking and unlocking of the bolt-work, so that
said safe or vault-door cannot be opened when locked until both of said
locks have been unlocked or have released their dogging action, to enable
the door to. be opened, substantially as described," is invalid, because
the specification of the original patent was not defective or insufficient,
and the patent was not inoperative; and the sole object of the reissue
was to obtain claim 3 as an enlarged claim; and the proceedings in the
Patent Office prior to the granting of the original patent show that Sargent abandoned that claim ; and because, although the reissue was
applied for only 13 days after the granting of the original patent, there
was not a clear mistake, inadvertently committed, in the wording of a
-claim.
Claims 1 and 7 of reissued letters patent No. 8550, granted to the Yale
Lock Manufacturing Company, January 21st, 1879, for an "improve-

