OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

which act both sections appear under the head of "Witnesses
Fees." 10 Stat. 167, 168, c. 80. As the court was to fix the
compensation to be allowed to witnesses under section 851, it
is a reasonable interpretation of section 850 to hold that the
auditing therein Drovided for was also to be, primarily, under
its direction.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the court
below erred in disallowing the item in the bill of costs of

$212.20.
The judgment is reversed with directions to enter a judgment
in favor of the United States for the sum of $7334, with
interest at the rate of sio per cent per annum? from
October 15, 1883, the date of the commencement of this

action, andfor its costs in the court below, as indicated in
this opinion.

IRON SILVER MINING COMPANY v. CAMPBELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 22. Argued March 25, 26, 1890.-Decided April 28, 1890.
A lode patent, issued subsequently to the issue of a placer patent of a tract
within whose metes and bounds the lode patent is located, is not conclusive evidence that the lode was so known at the time of the issue of the
placer patent as to authorize the issue of the lode patent.
Where two parties have patents for the same tract of land, and the question in a judicial proceeding is as to the superiority of title under those
patents, and the decision depends upon extrinsic facts not shown by the
patenti, it is competent to establish it by proof of those facts.
The provisions in Rev. Stat. §§ 2325, 2326, as to adverse claims to a lode,
for which a patent is asked, do not apply to a person who, before the
publication first required, had himself gone through all the regular proceedings required to obtain a patent for mineral land from the United
States; had established his right to the land claimed by him; and had
received his patent therefor.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. .8hley Pond and .Xr.L. S. Dixon for plaintiff in error.
Mr. T. M3.Patrson(with whom was X3. C. S. l7wmas on
the brief) for defendants in error.

M.n. JUSTIcE MLLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado. The action was brought
in that court by Peter Campbell et al., plaintiffs, against The
Iron Silver Mining Company, defendant, and was in-the nature of an ejectment to recover possession of a mineral lode
called The Sierra Nevada lode mining claim. The pleadings
merely set up that the plaintiffs were the owners of said lode
or claim, describing it, and that defendants had intruded upoi
their possession. The defendants denied that plaintiffs were
the owners of the claim, and asserted their own title. The
case was submitted to the court without a jury. The court
made the following finding of facts and conclusions of law on
which it rendered a judgment for the plaintiffs:
"This cause coming on for trial before the court, and the
parties appearing by their attorneys, and having, in open
court and by their stipulation in writing filed with the clerk,
waived a trial by jury, and the court, having duly heard and
considered the evidence, oral and documentary, offered by the
respective parties, and having duly deliberated thereon, finds
the following facts and conclusions of law, viz.:
"That the defendant, The Iron Silver Mining Company, is
a corporation created and organized and existing under and
by virtue of the laws of the State of New York, and has complied with the laws of the State of Colorado, so as to entitle
it to do business and sue and be sued in the State of Colorado.
"That the mining ground and property described in the
pleadings in this action were a part of the public domain of
the United States until the title thereof passed out of the
United States by the issuing of patents, as hereinafter set
forth.
"That the said patent of the Sierra Nevada lode mining

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

claim was issued to the said plaintiffs and their grantors and
predecessors in interest at the time thereto stated, and by
duly executed and recorded deeds of conveyance the title to
the land mentioned and described in the said patent and the
complaint in this action has been conveyed to and is seized,
owned and possessed by the said plaintiffs, and was so seized,
owned and possessed by them at the time of the commencement of this action.
"That on the 13th day of November, 1878, said William
Moyer duly made application in the proper United States
land office to be allowed to enter and pay for a patent for
said William Moyer placer mining claim, being survey lot
No. 300 and mineral entry No.-; that on the 21st day of
February, 1879, said William Moyer was allowed to and did
make entry in said land office of the United States and paid
for the said placer claim, and that on the 30th day of January, 1880, the said William Moyer placer patent was issued
to the said William Moyer for the tiact of land described in
said placer patent, and that by virtue of duly executed and
recorded deeds of conveyance the said defendant company
has become the owner of and seized of all the right, title
and interest in and to the said tract of land described in and
conveyed by the said placer patent.
"That the ground described in said patent of plaintiffs for
the said Sierra Nevada lode claim is principally located or
situated within the exterior boundaries of the tract of land
described in said placer patent for the said William Moyer
placer claim and is a part of the same land, and the maps
introduced in evidence and contained in the bill of exceptions
and record correctly delineate the surface of the ground comprised within the exterior boundary lines of the said placer
patent and the said lode patent, respectively.
"And the court finds as conclusions of law from the foregoing findings of fact, that it is conclusively presumed and found,
from the face of said Sierra Nevada lode patent, that the said
Sierra Nevada lode claim bad been duly discovered, located,
and recorded, and owned by the said patentees in said Sierra
Nevada lode patent and their predecessors in interest, (the

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.

89

Opinion of the Court.

said plaintiffs,) within the eiterior boundaries of the said tract
of land described in said William Moyer placer patent, before
the time of the said application for the said placer patent, and
the mining ground described in the said complaint and conveyed by the said lode patent is excepted out of the grant of
the land described in and conveyed by the said placer patent.
"And the couit finds that the plaintiffs were, ht the time of
the commencement of this action, and still are, the owners
and seized of said tract of land described in said complaint
and -called the Sierra Nevada lode mining claim; that the said
defendant company wrongfully withheld, and still does wrongfully withhold, the possession thereof from the said plaintiffs.
"It is, therefore, ordered and adjudged' that the plaintiffs
have judgment against said defendant company for possession
of the mining ground in dispute, as described in the complaint
herein, with costs, to be taxed.
"And forasmuch as the matters and things above herein
set forth do not appear of record, and the said defendant tenders this its bill of exceptions, and prays that the samp may be
signed and sealed by the judge of this court, and pursuant to
the statutes in such case made and provided, which is accord.
ingly done, this 8th day of July, 1885, being one of the
judicial days of the May term of the said court, A.D. 1885, at
the city of Denver, in said district.
"(S'g'd)
MOSEs HALLLrr, .Dis'tJudge."
This finding of facts and conclusions of law is embodied in
and made a part of a bill of exceptions. We think the correct
practice in cases submitted to a court without a jury is for
the court to make its finding of facts and its conclusions of
law a separate paper from pleadings or bills of exceptions.
The only thing of any consequence in the bill of ekceptions,
containing a considerable amount of oral testimony, almost
every word of which is objected to by one party or the other,
is the two patents under which the adverse parties claim title.
From this and the finding of facts it appears that the patent
under whicll the Iron Silver Mining Company claims was
issued to William Moyer on his application, made in the l5roper
VOL. cxx-19

OCTOBER .TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

land office on the 13th of November, 1878, and bears date
January 30, 1880; and that the one under which plaintiffs
below claim bears date March 15, 1883. It is conceded that
both patents cover the land in controversy. The Moyer
patent, being the elder, is for fifty-six acres of placer mining
land. The plaintiffs' patent, though of a later date, is for a
vein or lode of mineral deposit which runs under the surface
of the ground covered by defendant's patent.
The conclusion of law which controlled the judgment of the
Circuit Court in the present case is that "it is conclusively
presumed and found, from the face of the said Sierra Nevada
lode patent, that the said Sierra Nevada lode claim had been
duly discovered, located and recorded, and owned by the said
patentees in the said Sierra Nevada lode patent and their pred
ecessors in interest, the said plaintiffs, within the exterior
boundaries of said tract of land described in said William
-Moyerplacer patent, before the time of the said application
for the said placer patent, and the mining ground described
in the said complaint and conveyed by the said lode patent is
excepted out of the grant of the land described in and conveyed by the said placer patent." It is the soundness of this
conclusion of law from the facts found which we are called
upon to review.
The real principle on which the plaintiffs relied to establish
the superiority of their claim .for the lode in controversy is,
that it was a known lode, within the meaning of the act of
Congress on that subject, at the time of the application for the
Moyer patent, and therefore, by the act of Congress on that
subject, the title to it did not pass to the grantee in that patent.
If the fact were proved that the Sierra Nevada lode was a
known lode, within the limits of the placer patent obtaied by
Moyer, At the time of his application, the contention of the
plaintiffs is sound. But notwithstanding nearly all the testimony, particularly all the oral testimony found in the bill of
exceptions, was introduced for the purpose of proving the
existence of this lode, and that it was known to Moyer or his
grantor, and in refutation of that proposition, the court in its
finding of facts makes no finding on that subject. It was

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

obviously the opinion of the court, and it is the ground on
.which defendants in error support its judgment here, that the
patent issued by tlie government is conclusive evidence that
such vein was known so as to authorize the land department
to issue a patent for it as being reserved out of the grant in
Moyer's patent.
It is very singular that the patent to Campbell and others
for the Sierra Nevada claim makes no reference to this reservation in Moyer's patent, and no statement that the existence
of the lode was known to anybody at the time the Moyer
patent was applied for or when it was granted. There is nothing on the face of this patent to show that there was any
contest before the land department on this question of the
existence of the vein, and the knowledge of it on which the
validity of the patent is now supposed to rest. We have,
therefore, the junior patent, which is held to defeat the prior
patent, with no reference to any contest between the different
claimants before the land office, and we have the court, in
deciding the present case, while hearing the testimony which
would defeat or sustain that patent, utterly ignoring it, and
making no finding upon the subject which the defendants in
error believe to be involved in the issue.
The reason of. this action by the court is very plain. It
proceeds upon the idea that it is conclusively presumed and
found, from the face of the Sierra Nevada lode patent, that the
said lode claim had been duly discovered, located and recorded.
within the exterior boundaries of 'the land described in the
said Moyer placer patent before the application for the said
Moyer patent. As there is not a word said on the face of t~he
Sierra Nevada lode patent on this subject, we must look for
somd inference of law, rather than to the statement of facts.'
upon which this presunmption conclusively arises."
That presumption of law, as- explained by counsel, is that,
since the law under which the Moyer patent issued reserved
from its operation any known vein or lode within the exterior
boundaries, it is presumed that, when the offiers of the land
department issued the patent for the Sierra Nevada lode, they
made such inquiries into the question of the existence of. this

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

lode, and its being known to the grantee in the Moyer patent,
as authorized it to decide that question; and that that decision
is binding and conclusive forever upon all parties. We are
not able to agree with this statement of the law.
The proceedings in the land department for securing title to
government lands are usually ea parte. There is no general
provision of law which requires a party who can make .the
necessary proofs, which on their face entitle him to purchase
land from the government, to call any individual as a contestant, or to notify other parties interested in the matter that he
is about to proceed. Each one proceeds in his own manner,
and establishes his own claim, and the officers of the government frequently do not know that there is any other party
claiming the same land, while there may be such a party who
has also taken proper steps, and whose rights are superior to
those of the party presenting himself before the officers of the
government. It is this ex parte proceeding which is supposed
to bind the claimants under the Moyer patent conclusively and
forever in regard to their knowledge of the existence of this
Sierra Nevada lode at the time they made application for their
patent within its limits.
We are not ignorant of the many decisions by which it has
been held that the rulings of the land officers in regard to the
facts on which patents for land are issued are decisive in
actions at law, and that such patents can only be impeached in
regard to those facts by a suit in chancery brought to set the
grant aside. But those are cases in which no prior patent had
been issued for the same land, and where the party contesting
the patent had no evidence of a superior legal title, but was
bompelled to rely on the equity growing out of frauds and
,mistake$ in issuing the patent to his opponent.
Wher& each party has a patent from the government, and
the question is as to the superiority of the title under those
patents, if this depends upon extrinsic facts not shown by
the- patents themselves, we think it is competent, in any
judicial proceeding where this question of superiority of title
arises, to establish it by proof of these facts. We do not
believe that the government of the United Statesi having.

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

issued a patent, can, by the authority of its own officers, invalidate that patent by the issuing of a second one for the same
property. If it be said that the question of the reservation of
this vein as a known lode under the law on that subject makes
a difference in this respect, and. that the land office has a
right to inquire whether such lode existed, and whether its
existence was known to the pa'tentee of the first patent, we
answer that a patent, issued under such- circumstances to the
claimant of the lode claim, may possibly be such. Prinmfacie
evidence of the facts named as will place the parties in a condition to contest the question in a court.
But we are of opinion that it is always and ultimately a
question of judicial cognizance. The first patent conferred
upon Moyer the right to this vein and to all other veins
within the limits of his fifty acres of-placer claim. There is
excepted from that grant any lode existing and known at the
time application was made for his patent. 'Whether such a
lode did exist, and whether it was known to him, is a question
which he has a. right to have tried by a court of justice, and
from which he cannot be excluded by the subsequent action
of the officers of the land department. It is not necessary to
consider whether there may not be reservations of a character which could be thus disposed of by the proper land offices;
for instance, a reservation of any. land heretofore patented of
granted to other parties. There is nothing there to decide but
to look at the records of the land office and.see whether any
land within that bolandary ever had. been granted. A riservation of a specific boundary, laid down so as to be identified, in
the first patent, needs no judicial action to determine what it
is that is reserved.
But in the present case, two facts requiring judgment, discretion, knowledge of.the law and the balancing of testimony,
are essential to the exercise of the right to grant the property
to some other party. One of these, the existence of such a
vein, is a question often of great conflict of evidence, requiring
the weighing of testimony. The other, the most important of
all, the most difficult to decide, the least likely to be decided
correctly by ex parte testimony or in ex parte proceedings, is

294-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the question whether, if such mine existed, it was known to
the party who applied for the patent at the time application
was made. And while we are not prepared to say at this
time' that the land officers cannot, on a prim7a facie case,
decide the right of the applicant to such vein and give him a
patent for it, we are satisfied that in any conflict between -the
title conferred by two patents, whether it be in law or in
equity, the holder of the title under the elder patent has a
right to require that the existence of the lode, and the knowledge of its existence on the part of the grantee of the elder
patent, should be established. Here we have a remarkable.
fact, the absence of any evidence of a contest before the land
department on that subject, and of any hearig on the part of
the owner of the elder title. We have no finding or assertion
of the existence of such fact in the junior patent, or that it
was established even by ep2arte proceedings before the oficers of the government; and the introduction of evidence, on
the trial in this case, on that subject, was ignored as any part of
the case on which the judgment of the court was based. It
rets solely, and as the court says, conclusively, on the pre-amption that the officers of the government did their duty
in the matter, and that what they decided is incapable of contradiction.
The case in this court bearing the nearest analogy to the one
before as is that of Railroad Co. v. Svmith, 9 Wall. 95, 99. By
the act of September 28, 1850, all the swamp and overflowed
lands belonging to the United States were given to the States
within which they lay. The Secretary of the Interior was
directed by the statute to ascertain and distinguish these lands
and certify them tQ the -several States, and it has been repeatedly held by this court that the act itself was a present
grant of all. such lands. Congress subsequently, by the act of
June 10, 1852, granted the right of way and a portion of the
public lands to the State of Missouri, in aid of the construction
of railroads. This grant was accepted by the legislature of
Missouri, which, by a statute, vested the land granted in the
Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad Company, the company
having lo-cated its road, whereby the even-numbered sections

IRON{ SILVER MINIlG

CO. v. CAMPBELL.

Opinion of the Court.

and quarter sections granted to the State for the use of said
road were ascertained. The railroad company, finding Smith,
the defendant, residing upon and claiming one of these quarter
sections, brought an action of ejectment to recover possession.
Smith defended on the ground that the land was swamp land,
and the title passed from the United States by the act of 1850,
and could not be granted to the State of Missouri, or to the
railroad company, by the act of 1852. The latter act contained a reservation from the grant for the railroad of all
lands theretofore conveyed or disposed of by the United
States. Here then were two grants of the same lands by the
United States, these grants operating as effectually as patents
to convey title to the property described in them. It became
necessary in the suit to ascertain which of these was the superior title. The elder grant primafaeie,to wit, the. grant of
the swamp lands to the. States, which we have said was a
grant inprxsenti, was the better title. But the question arose
as to how it could be shown that this was swamp land
within the meaning of the act. of 1850, and therefore passed
by that statute, and could not afterwards be transferred by
the act of 1852.
The act of Congress granting these swamp lands had made
it the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury,. a duty afterwards transferred to the Secretary of the Interior, to ascertain
what were swamp lands, and to make certificate of the fact to
the States that were entitled to them. This duty had not
been performed by' either the Secretary of the Treasury or the
Secretary of the Interior. There was no record or documentary evidence, therefore, by which the State claiming those
swamp lands, or its grantee claiming under it, could establish
the fact that the land which he was occupying was swamp
land under the grant of 1850.
The case was brought in a state court of Missouri, and that
court permitted Smith to show by parol evidence, the evidence
of parties familiar with the land, that it was swamp and overflowed land at the time the grant *of 1850 was made by
Congress, and had been ever since, and on this testimony a
judgment was rendered for the defendant Smith, which was

. OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. From that court
it was brought to this court by a writ of error. This court
said that "by the second section of the. act of 1850, it was
made the duty of the Secretary of the Interior to ascertain
this fact [namely, whether it was swamp land or not] and
furnish the State with the evidence of it. Must the State.lose
'the land, though clealy swamp land, because that officer has
'neglected to do this? The right of the State did not depend on
his action, but on the act of Congress, and though the States
might be embarrassed in the "sertion of this right by the
delay or failure of the Secretary to ascertain and make out
lists of these lands, the right of the States to them could not
be defeated by that delay. As that officer had no satisfactory
evidence under his control to enable him to make but these
lists, as is abundantly shcrwn by the correspondence of the
land department with the state officers, he must, if he attempted it, rely, as he did in many cases, on witnesses whose
personal knowledge enabled them to report as to the character
of the tracts claimed to be swamp and overflowed. -Why
should not the same kind of testimony, subjected to crossexaminatieit, be competent, when the issue is made in a court
of justice, to show that they are swamp and overflowed, and
so excluded from the grant under which plaintiff claims, a.
grant which was also a gratuity? The matter to be shown is
one of observation and examination, and whether arising
before the Secretary, whose duty it was primarily to decide it,
or before the court, whose duty it became because the Secretary had failed to do it, this was clearly the best evidence to
be had, and was sufficient for the purpose."
The subsequent case of Frenck v. Fyan, 93 U. S.169, as
shown by a careful reading of it, is not in conflict with this
decision, because in that case the Secretary haying acted upon
the matter and certified that the lands then in controversy
were swamp and overflowed lands, it was not permitted, in
a trial before a jury, to contradict this certificate by oral tes
timony. And in the still later case of TT7ighkt v. Roseberry,
121 U. S.488, the principle we are stating is clearly laid down
in a case almost identical with the present one.

IRON SILVER MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

It is urged upon us, in answer to this view of the subject,
that by sections 2325 and 2326 of the Revised Statutes it is
made th- duty of a person seeking to avail himself of the discovery of a mineral lode and obtain a patent for the same,
previous to making the application for a patent, to file the
survey and field-notes of the grant which he claims, and
do certain other things showing him to be entitled to purchase
the mineral land which he claims, all of which is to be under
oath. The statute then declares that the register, upon the
filing of such application, field-notes, etc., shall publish a notice
that such application has been made, for the period of sixty
days, in a newspaper to be by him designated as published
nearest to said claim, and at the end of this sixty days' publication, "if no adverse claim shall have been filed with the
register and the receiver" of the land office, 'it shall be
assumed that the applicant is entitled to a patent, upon the
payment to the proper officer of five dollars per acre, and that
no adverse claim exists; and thereafter no objection from
third parties to the issuance of a patent shall be heard, except.
it is shown that the applicant has failed to comply with the
terms of this chapter."
Section 2326 then proceeds to enact that where an adverse'
clairn is filed it shall be upon oath of the person making the
claim, and shall set out the boundaries, hature and extent of
such adverse claim, and all proceedings shall be stayed in the
land office until the controversy shall be settled or decided by
a courf of competeht jurisdiction. It makes it the duty of the
adverse claimant, "within thirty days after filing his claim, to
commence proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction, to
deterraine the question of the right of 'possession, and prosecute
the same with reasonable diligence .to final judgment; and a
failure so to do shall be a waiver of his adverse claim. After
such judgment shall have been rendered, the party entitled to
the possession of the claim, or any portion thereof," may "file
a certified copy of the judgment roll with the register of the
land office, together with the certificate of the surveyor general that the requisite amoun.t of labor has been expended or
improvements made thereon, and the description required in

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

other cases, and shall pay to the receiver five dollars per acre
for his claim, together with the proper fees, whereupon the
whole proceedings and the judgment roll shall be certified by
the register to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
and a patent shall issue thereon for 'the claim, or such portion thereof as applicant shall appear, from the decision of the
court, to rightly possess. If it appears from the decision of
the court that several parties are entitled to separate and different portions of the claim, each party may pay for his portion of the claim, with "theproper fees, and file the certificate
and description by the surveyor general, whereupon the register shall certify the proceedings and judgment rolls to the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, as in the preceding
case, and patents shall issue to the several parties according
to their respective rights."
The argument we are considering assumes, as a matter of
law, that all that was required of the owners of the Sierra
Nevada claim, and all that was required of the register and
receiver of the land office in regard to these publications, was
done and had, and that, therefore, the owners of the Moyer
patent are concluded by the proceedings which are thus supposed to have taken place. There are two substantial objections to this view of the subject. The first is that if such
proceedings were had, and resulted either in the trial of the
adverse claim before a court of justice, or in the failure of
Moyer or anybody else to assert an adverse claim, those proceedings are matters of public record, and as, in this case, they
must constitute the main reliance of those claiming undei" the
Sierra Nevada patent, for the superiority of their title, this
record should have been produced on the trial of the case;
and that the mere opinion of the register and receiver of the
land office as to what those proceedings are and their effect
upon the prior patent of Moyer, should not be substituted for
the production of those proceedings themselves, copies of which
were easily obtainable at the land office department.
Another reason, which we think more satisfactory, is, that
a careful examination of this statute concerning adverse claims
leads us to the conviction that it was not intended to affect a

IRONf SILVE

MINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

party who, before the publication first required, had himself
gone through all the regular proceedings required to obtain a
patent for mineral land from the United States; had established his right to the land claimed by hifn, and received, his
patent; and was reposing quietly.upon its .sufficiency and validity. It is true that there are no very distinctive words
declaring what kind of adverse claim is required to be set.
up as a defence against the party making publication; but
throughout the whole of these sections and the original statute
from which they are transferred. to the Revised Statutes, the
words "claim" and "claimant" are used. This word, is, in
all legislation of Congress on the subject, used in regard to a
claim not yet perfected by a title from the government by
way of a patent. And the purpose of the statute seems to be,
that where there are two claimants to the same mine, neither
of whom has yet acquired the title from the government, they
shall bring their respective claims to the same property, in
the manner prescribed in the statute, before some judicial tribunal located in the neighborhood where the property is, and
that the result of this judicial investigation shall govern the
action of the officers of the land department in determining
which of these claimants shall have the patent, the -final evidence of title, from the government. This view is consistent
with the entire statute on the subject, and some'of its language is inconsistent with the idea that any contest to be
thus decided is between a party who already has the legal
title to the property which he claims and some other party
who is only setting up a claim to the same property.
In the first place, its inapplicability to the present case is
shown by the requirement that in all cases the successful
party shall pay five dollars per acre before he can get. his
patent. This argues that it has no reference to a- placer-,
patent, because for the land conveyed by a placer patent the
party is only required to pay two dollars and a half an acre.
Again, the following language seems inconsistent with the
idea that one of the contesting parties may already have a
patent for the land in controversy, namely: "After such
judgment shall have been rendered, the 'party entitled to the,:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

possession of the claim, or any portion thereof, may, without
giving further notice, file a certified copy of the judgment
roll with the register of the land office, together*with the certificate of the surveyor general that the requisite amount of
-labor has been expended or improvements made thereon, and
the description required in other cases, and shall pay to the
receiver five dollars per acre for his claim, together with the
proper fees, whereupon the whole proceedings and the judgment roll shall be certified by the register to the commissioner
of the General Land Office, and a patent shall issue thiereon
for the claim, or such portion thereof as the applicant shall
appear, from the decision of the courts to rightly possess. .If
it appears from the decision of the court that several parties
axe entitled to separate and different portions of the claim,
each party may pay for his -portion of the claim, . . . and
patents shall issue to the several parties according to their
respective rights.?
It is too obvious to escape comment that by this proceeding
there are brought before the court adverse claimants,to mineral land, and that the party who succeeds in establishing the
superior right to thepossession shall have a patent. This may
be the party who institutes the original proceeding or it may
be the party who sets up the ad-verse claim. Whichever of
these two establishes his better right to the possession gets
the patent. How can this apply to a .case where one of the
parties already has a patent? How can be be required to pay
again for the land for which he has already paid all that the
law requires? How can he be required to establish before the
land office his right to the possession of a mine for which that
office has already granted him a patent?
And again, how can such a case be brought within the
terms of a statute which provides, that where "several parties are entitled to separate and different portions of the claim,
each party may pay for his portion of the claim, with the
proper fees," etc., "and patents shall issue to the several parties according to their respective rights." Why should a patent
'issue to a party for that for which be already has a patent?
These expressions of the statute, so clearly applicable to par-

IRON SILVER KINING CO. v. CAMPBELL.
Opinion of the Court.

ties who are only claimants and have no title, show what the
purpose of Congress was in passing the law, and that it was
not intended that a party who had already gone through all
these proceedings and established his right to the mine which
he claims, and received his patent for it, shall be put upon the
same level with mere claimants, who have yet to establish
their claim and prove their right even to the possession, and
that he is to be brought before a judicial tribunal to make a
contest with a party who has no legal standing in court to
contest with him, who has the legal title from the government.
And this is just and is sound policy. Why should a party
who has the legal title from the government of the United
States, on which he relies with safety, be called upon to
answer every adventurer who digs a hole in the ground thus
conveyed to him and asserts a right to mineral found in that
ground ? When he has once obtained the patent of the
United States for his land, he should be only required to answer persons who have some established claim, and to contest
with this party not before the administrative departments, but
in courts of justice, by the regular proceedings which determine finally the rights of parties to property. For these
reasons, we do not believe that these sections, 2325 and 2326,
are intended to apply to the case of a party who has a prior
patent for the land which may be the subject of controversy
bMfore the register and receiver of the land office. Is it fair
and just that the party who has gone through all the processes
which the laws of the United States require of him to obtain
title to its lands, and has obtained that title, shall be subjected
by the officers of the government of the United States to
defend that title before them from the attacks of an outsider?
We have more than once held that when the government
has issued and delivered its patent for lands of the United
States, the control of the department over the title to such
land has ceased, and the only way in which' the title can be
impeached is by a bill in chancery; and we do not believe
that, as a general rule, the man who has obtained a patent
from the government can be called to answer in regard to that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, J., Fuller, C. J.

-patent before the officers of the land department of the gov-,
*ernmenL E'vyarte Schurz, 102 U. S. 378.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court
in refusing to consider the testimony found in the case, in regard to the known existence of the vein of the Sierra Nevada
claim at the time of the application for the 'Moyer patent, was
in error; and, also, that it was erroneous to hold that, on the
face of the patent for the Sierra Nevada mine, the existence of
this vein and the knowledge of its existence were to be conclusively presumed in this action.
Thejudment is reversed, and the case is remanded to tile
Circuit Court, with a direction to grant a new trial.
MR. JusTICEF BREwER, with whom the CHIEF
curred, dissenting:

JUSTICE

con-

I am unable to agree with the. opinion of the court, delivered
by MR. JusTIo MILL.F
A placer patent and the statute under which it is issued ex-.
pressly provide that it shall not include any known lode or'
vein. So if, within the limitg of placer ground there be a vein
.orlode bearing gold or other mineral of precious value, and
that vein or lode was lnown at the. time of the application for
the placer patent, it did not pass under the patent. It was as
-muchexcepted from.its terms as though it were in an adjoining State. It was territory carved outby the very languiage of
the patent and the statute, and not passing to the patentee,
remained the property of the government, and subject to location and patent, as fully and in the same manner and upon the
same terms as any other -mineral vein. Suppose a patent for
*agricultural lands by virtue of the statute excepted all lakes,
ponds and other bodies of water, who would doubt that the
title to any lake or pond, within the territory described in such
patent, remained in the government and subject to sale by it
in any manner it deemed best ; or that a title thereto obtained,
in the manner prescribed by law,'was paraniount? So here.
There is only one way and one tribunal provided for obtaining

IRON SILVER

INING ,CO. u. CAMTPBELL.

.803

Dissenting Opinlon7; Brewer, J.; Fuller, C. J.

title to any vein or lode, whether within or without the limits
of plaber ground, and that is by application in the land office.
That way was pursued in this case, and a patent obtained.
Whether this lode or vein was or was not within the limits of
the placer patent depends upon no matter of law, but upon two
questions of fact: first, Was there a vein bearing gold or other
precious mineral within the limits of fhe placer territory . and,
second, Was it known at the time ot-the application for the
placer patent? These two questions of fact determine the question whether the placer patent took the whole surface ground,
and all veins and lodes within its territory. Provision is made
by statute for putting such questions tof fact in issue. The adverse proceedings prescribed by statute are of common occurrence. It is the ordinary procedure. We have had cases
involving such procedure before us this term. But I fear that
this decision is equivalent to holding that such statutory adverse proceedings amount to nothing and are unworthy of
notice. From Johnson. v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 12, to the present
time, the uniform ruling of this court has been, that questions
of fact passed upon by the land department are conclusively
determined, and that only que tions of law can be brought intg
court.
The right to this patent depends solely upon these two questions of fact, which wereconsidered by the land office when
the original patent wis issued. I think that its determination
upon them was conclusive.
I am authorized by the CHIEF JusTicE to say that he concurs in these views.

