UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
CERTIFIATE

OF DIVISION IN OPn ON FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASS CHUSETTS.
No. 241. Argued March 28, 31, 1690.-Decided April 28, 190.

The knowingly depositing an obscene letter in the mails, enclosed in an
envelope or wrapper upon which there is nothing but the name and
address of the person to whom the letter is written, is not an offence
within the act of July 12, 1876, 19 Stat. 90, c. 186.
A sealed and addressed letter is not a "writing" within the meaning of
that act.
A certified question: "Does the indictment charge the defendant with any
-offence?" is too general to be made the subject of a Certificate of
Division.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A8s8itant Attorney GeneraZ Xaury for plaintiff.
Mr. W-arren 0. EYy7e for defendant.

fR.

JUSTICE LAMA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an indictment on the act of Congress of July 12,
1876, chapter 186, found and returned in the District Court,
and remitted, pursuant to section 1037 of the Revised Statutes,
to the court below, charging that on the twenty-fifth day of
January, 1876, at North Attleborough, in the District of Massachusetts, "Leslie G. Chase did unlawfully and knowingly
deposit and cause to be deposited in the mails of the said
United States, then and there for mailing and delivery, a certain obscene, lewd and lascivious letter, whicl said letter was
then and there non-mailable matter, as declared by section
one of an act of Congress approved on the twelfth day of July,
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-six, and which said letter is and then and there was
so grossly obscene, lewd and lascivious that the same would be
offensive to the court here. and is unfit and improper to anxe r
upon the records thereol, wherefore the jurors aforesaid do

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

not set forth the same in this indictment, which said letter
was then and there enclosed in a certain paper wrapper, which
said wrapper was then and there addressed and directed as
follows, that is to say, IWatchweer Print, Providence, R. I.,'
against the peace and dignity of the United States, and
contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and
provided."
After a plea of guilty bad been entered and before sentence;
a motion in arrest of judgment was made, on the following
.grounds:
"11. The indictment does not set forth the contents of the
letter which is alleged to be obscene, lewd, lascivious and
non-mailable, nor does it describe said letter or any part
thereof, nor does it in any way identify said letter.
"2. The indictment does not allege that the'defendant knew
the contents of said letter at the time of the alleged deposit
thereof in the mails of the said United States.
"3. The indictment does not allege that the defendant
deposited said letter in the mails of the said United States for
the purpose of circulating and disposing of, or of aiding in the
circulation or disposition of, anything declared to be non-mailable matter by any law of the United States.
"4. The indictment does not allege that the defendant deposited, or caused to be deposited, for mailing or delivery, anything declared to be non-mailable matter by section one (1) of
an act of Congress approved on the twelfth day of July, A.D.
1876, or by any law of the United States.
"5. The indictment does not charge the defendant with any
offence."
At the hearing in the Circuit Court upon the motion in arrest
of judgment, the following questions arose upon which the
judges by whom the court was held were divided in opinion,
viz:
"First. Is the knowingly depositing in the mails of an
obscene letter, enclosed in an envelope or wrapper upon which
there is nothing but the name and address of the person to
whom the letter is written, an offence within the act of July
12, 1876, chapter 186 ?

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

"Second. Does this indictment allege that the defendant
deposited, or caused to be deposited, for mailing or delivery,
anything declared to be non-mailable matter by that act or by
any law of the United States?
"Third. Does this indictment charge the defendant with
any offence ?
"Thereupon, at. the request of the counsel for the United
States, it is ordered that these questions be stated as aforesaid
and be certified under the seal of this court to the Supreme
Court of the United States at its next session."
Objection is taken to the consideration of the questions presented by this certificate of division, for several reasons, none
of which are deemed sufficient to preclude our taking jurisdiction of -the case; and we shall, therefore, proceed to consider the questions certified in the order they are arranged in
the certificate.
Sec. 1 of the act July 12, 1876, 19 Stat. 90, on which this
indictment is founded, is as follows:
"Every obscene, lewd or lascivious book, pamphlet, picture,
paper, writing, lrint or' other publication of an indecent
character, and every article or thing designed or intended for
the prevention of conception or procuring of abortion, and
every article or thing intended or adapted for any indecent
or immoral use, and every written or printed card, circular,
book, pamphlet, advertisement or notice of any kind giving
information, directly or indirectly, where, or how, or of whom
or by whai means any of the hereinbefore mentioned matters,
articles or things may be obtained or made, and every letter
upon the envelope of which, or postal card upon which, indecent, lewd, obscene or lascivious delineations, epithets, terms
or language may be written or printed, are hereby declared to
be -non-mailable matter, and shall not be conveyed in .the
mails, nor delivered from any post-office nor by any letter-,
carrier; and any person who shall knowingly deposit, or cause
to be deposited, for mailing or delivery, anything declared by
this section to be non-mailable matter, and any person who
shall knowingly take the same, or cause the same to be taken,
from the mails, for the purpose of circulating or disposing of,
VOL. cXxxv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

or of aiding in the circulation or disposition of the same, shali,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall for each and every
offence be fined not less than one hundred dollars nor more
than five thousand dollars, or imprisoned at hard labor not
less than. one year nor more than ten years, or both, at the
discretion of the court."
The contention on the part of the United States is, that the
term "writing," as used in this statute, is comprehensive
enough to include, and does include, the term "letter," as
used in the indictment; and it is insisted, therefore, that the
offence charged is that of unlawfully and knowingly depositing in the mails of the United States an obscene, lewd and
lascivious "writing," etc., etc.
We do not concur in this construction of the statute. The
word "writinc , " when not used in connection with analogous
words of more special meaning, is an extensive term, and may
be construed to denote a letter from one person to another.
But such is not its ordinary and usual acceptation. Neither
in legislative enactments nor in common intercourse are the
two terms "letter" and "writing" equivalent expressions.
When in ordinary intercourse men speak of mailing a "letter"
or receiving by mail a "letter," they do not say mail a
"writing" or receive by mail a "writing." In law the term
"writing" is much more frequently used to denote legal instruments, such as deeds, agreements, memoranda, bonds and
notes, etc. In the statute of frauds the word occurs in that
sense in nearly every section. And in the many discussions to
which this statute has given rise, these instruments are referred
to as "the writing" or "some writing." But in its most frequent and most familiar sense the term "writing" is applied to
books, pamphlets and the literary and scientific productions
of authbrs. As for instance, in that clause in the United
States Constitution which provides that Congress shall have
power "to promote the progress of science and useful arts,
by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the
exclusive right to their respective writing&and discoveries."
In the statute under consideration, the word "writing" is
used as one of a group or class of words, - book, pamphlet,

UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

picture, paper, writing, print, - each of which is ordinarily
and prima facie understood to be a publication; and the
enumeration concludes with the general phrase "or other
publication," which applies to all the articles enumerated, and
marks each with the common quality indicated.
It must, therefore, according to a well-defined rule of construction, be a published writing which is contemplated by
the statute, and not a private letter, on the outside of which
there is nothing but the name and address of the person to
whom it is written.
We do not think it a reasonable construction of the statute
to say that the vast mass of postal matter known as "letters"
was intended by Congress to be expressed in a term so general and vague as the word "writing," when it would have
been just as easy, and also in strict accordance with all its
other postal laws and regulations, to say "letters" when
letters were meant; and the very fact that the word "olettens" is not specially mentioned among the enumerated articles
in this clause is itself conclusive that Congress intended to
exclude private letters from its operations.
Upon this point Judge Hammond, in his opinion in United
States v. Hggett, 40 Fed. Rep. 636, 641, makes the following
apt and, to our minds, conclusive remarks: "I have taken the
trouble to examine with care the legislation concerning our
postal affairs, and do not find a single instance where Congress has ever used any other word to include 'letters' than
that word itself, except such expressions as 'the mail,' 'mailmatter,' 'bag or mail of letters,' etc.
Whenever the
legislation in hand requires specific classification or enumeration, I find no word ever substituted for 'letters' to express
that- which is commonly known as letters in relation to the
postal service. We have 'letter and newspaper envelopes,'
'letter correspondence,' ' registered letters,' ' unclaimed letters,'
'dead letters,' ' request letters,' ' non-delivered letters,' ' all
letters and other mail matter,' 'foreign letters,' 'letters or
packets,' 'letters -nd packets,' 'letter postage,' 'letter mail,'
'letter and other mail matter,' and such like, almost innumerably; and these I have taken quite at random from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes. Can it be possible that Congress, then,
wishing to include 'letters' in any particular and accurate
enumeration, shall drop that word, so imbedded in our postal
laws and that of our ancestors beyond the sea, and adopt
some unfamiliar, inferior, and in every sense ambiguous term
to express the idea."
A further. argument in support of the view we have asserted
is found in the fact that the statute, after it has declared by
enumeration, in the clause under consideration, what articles
shall be non-mailable, adds a separate and distinct clause declaring that "every letter upon the envelope oqf whick
indecent, lewd, obscene or lascivious delineations, epithets,
terms or language may be written or printed

.

.

.

shall

not be conveyed in the mails," and the person knowingly or
wilfully depositing *the same in the mails "shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor," etc. This distinctly additional
clause, specifically designating and describing the particular
class of letters which shall be non-mailable, clearly limits the
inhibitions of the statute to that class of letters alone, whose
indecent matter is exposed on the envelope. It is an old' and
familiar rule that, "where there is, in the -same statute, a particular enactment, and also a general one, which, in its most
comprehensive sense, would include what is embraced in the former, the particular enactment must be operative, and the general enactment must be taken to affect only such cases within
its general language as are not within the provisions of the particular enactment." Pretty v. Solly, 26 Beavan, 610, per Romilly, M . R.; State v. Coma'rs of Railroad Taxation, 371N. J.
Law, 228. This rule applies wherever an act contains general
provisions and also special ones upon a subject, which, standing alone, the general provisions would include. Endlich on
the Interpretation of Statutes, 560.
The decisions of the Circuit Courts upon the question presented to us by this certificate have been conflicting. Those
sustaining indictments in cases similar to this hold that the
term "writing" comprehends "letters," and insist that even if
the general phrase "other publication" is allowed to apply to
the word, the sending or mailing a letter by one person to

'UNITED STATES v. CHASE.
Opinion of the Court.

another is a sufficient publication to bring a letter within the
statute, as is held to,be the case in an action of slander and
libel.
The reply to this is, that the statute prohibits the conveyance
by mail of matter which is a publication before it is mailed,
and not such as becomes a publication by reason of its being
mailed.
Another argument on which indictments of this character
have been sustained by some. of the Circuit Courts is, that a
reasonable construction must be given the statute, and, it being
evident that Congress intended to exclude anything of an
obscene character from the mails, it is immaterial whether the
thing prohibited is inside or outside of an envelope, and therefore unreasonable to hold that Congress intended not to allow.
a decent writing in an obscene envelope, but at the same time
to allow obscene writing in a proper envelope. We recognize
the value of the rule of construing statutes with reference to
the evil they were designed to suppress as an important aid in
ascertaining the meaning of language in them which is ambiguous and equally susceptible of conflicting constructions. But
this court has repeatedly held that this rule does not apply to
instances which are not embraced in the language employed in
the statute, or implied from a fair interpretation of its context,
even though they may involve the same mischief which the
statute was designed to suppress. 11U-nited States v. Sheldon, 2
Wheat. 119; United States v. Wiitberger, 5 Wheat. 76, 95;
United States v. M7iorris, 14 Pet. 464, 475; United States v.
Hlartwell, 6 Wall. 385; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214.
But we cannot concede that the policy of the statute was so
sweeping as the argument assumes. We think that its purpose
was to purge the mails of obscene and indecent matter as far
as was consistent with the rights reserved to the people, and
with a due regard to the security of private correspondence
from examination. Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727. This
object seems to have been accomplished by forbidding the use
of the mails to books, pamphlets, pictures, papers, writings and
prints, and other publications of an indecent nature, and also
to private letters and postal cards whereon the indecent matter

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

is exposed to the inspection of others than the person to whom
the letter is written.
Ashurst, J., said in Jones v. Smart, 1 T. R. 51: "It is safer
to adopt what the legislature have actually said than to suppose what they meant to say." In the Queensborough Cases,
1 Bligh, 497, Lord Redesdale said: "The proper mode of Ilisposing of difficulties arising from a liberal construction is by an
act of Parliament, and not by the decision of court." Congress seems to have acted upon this idea; and if further argument were needed, in support of our view, it will be found, we
think, in the fact that in an amendment t6 this statute .passed
September 26, 1888, 25 Stat. 496, c. 1039, for the first time in the
history of the postal service the word "letter" was included in
the list of articles made non-mailable by reason of theii obscene,
lewd, lascivious or otherwise improper character. If letters were
embraced in the statute on which this indictment was founded,
why did Congress consider it necessary to insert the specific
word to designate them in 1888? It must be that that body
did not put the construction on the prior statute claimed in
behalf of the United States, else we have it doing a useless
and vain act. But as the amendment of 1888 is not involved
in this case, no opinion is expressed as to whether the term
"letter," as used therein, can, under a proper construction- of
that statute; be held to include a strictly private sealed letter.
With reference to the argument that the word "writing"
occurs, in the legislation on this subjectlas an amendment, we
have only to remark that the entire history of that legislation,
so far from forming a basis for a different construction of this
act, confirms it.
For the reasons above given our answer to the first question
certified is in the negative. This being decisive, we need
not consider the second question; and the third, as has
been repeatedly held, is too general to be the subject of a
Certijateof Division.

