OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Counsel for Parties.

But we are of opinion that this court is without jurisdiction
of the case. All that the plaintiffs, in their petition, claimed
to recover was the part' of the land which was in t"he possession of Turner, alleged therein to contain 40 acres or more.
The answer alleged that the land sought to be recovered in
the suit was worth at least $10,000. and prayed that the plaintiffs' demand be rejected, and for judgment decreeing the
company "to be the owner of said land." This put in issue
only the land in the possession of Turner. The judgment is
limited to a piece of land described by metes and bounds, and
containing 3518 acres, as shown by a map and survey of the
same, on file and of record in the cause. The value of that
parcel of land is shown clearly to be not over $2000, and this is
conclusive as to our jurisdiction. Elgin v. .Marshall, 106
U. S. 578, and cases there cited; Gpeli7 City v. .Daniel, 109
U. S. 108; Bruce v. Manchester & Eeene Railroad,117 U. S.
514; Gibson v. Skh~feldt, 122 U. S. 24.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES ex rel. :MILLER v. RAUM.
EROR TO THIE SUP EME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUAIA.
No. 1572. Submitted April 7, 1890.-Decided April 21, 1890.

When the Commissioner of Pensions, in executing an instruction from the
Secretary of the Interior to increase a pension, gives a construction t6
a statute which had not been construed by the Secretary, but which had
been left open to the commissioner to construe, mandamus does not lie
to compel the commissioner to give a different construction to it.

TiE case is stated in the opinion.
.fr. J.G. Bigelow for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.Assistant Attorney General Maury for the defendant
in error.

MIhLER v. IRAU-.
Opiion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

The relator, Charles R. Miller, applied for a peremptory
mandamus against the iespond~nt, Green B. Raum, Commissioner of Pensions, to command him to reissue the relator's
pension certificate, with the rates of $25 per month from June
6, 1866; $31.25 per month from June 4, 1872; $50 per month
from June 4, 1874; and $72 per month from June 11, 1878 ;
and to allow him the monthly difference between these sums
and what had been allowed hn. From the statements of the
petition, it appears that the sums heretofore allowed to the
relator by way of pension have been $8 per month from the
date of his discharge from military service, August 27, 1865;
$15 per month from June 6, 1866 ; $18 per month from June
4, 1872; $24 per month from November 23, 1881; $30 per
month from March 3, 1883; and,$50 per month from January 14, 1885.
The injuries of which the relator complains are anchylosis,
or rigidity, of the spinal column, and of the left leg, resulting
from wounds received in the service, and making him nearly
helpless, so as to -require, as he alleges, the regular personal
aid and attendance of another person.
After repeated applications for an increase of his, pension,
in which he succeeded in getting only $30 per month from
March 3, 1883, under the act of that date, he finally appealed
from the dommissioner of Pensions to the Secretary of the
Interior, who rendered a decision on the 6th of February, 1885,
directed to the commissioner, and declaring, amongst other
things, that "the pensioner is greatlydisabled; and it isevident from the papers in his case that he is utterly unable
to 'do any manual labor, and is therefore entitled to $30
per month under the act of March 3, 1883, which has been
allowed him by your office." On a reconsideration of the.
case, a further decision was made on the 12th of Februarjr,
1885, in which the secretary said:
" Since 'the departmental decision above referred to the
papers in the claim have been carefully reconsidered by the
Department and a personal examination of .the pensioner

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

made, and it satisfactorily appears that he is unable to put
on his shoe and stocking on the foot of the injured leg for
the reason that the 'nearest point that can be reached by
hand from foot is 23 inches,' and for the further reason that
from 'necrosis of the lower vertebrw of spine, producing
anchylosis of the spinal column and destruction of some of
the spinal nerves,' he is unable to bend his back.
"After a careful review of all the facts in this case the Department is constrained to think that the pensioner comes
under the, meaning of the law .granting pensions to those
persons who require regular aid and attendance.
"The decision of the 6th instant is therefore overruled in so
far as it denies that the pensioner requires regular aid and
attendance."
Upon the receipt of this decision the then Commissioner of
Pensions reissued the relator's certificate at $50 per month
from January 14, 1885, the time of his last examination by
the medical officers of the bureau. To this rate the present
commissioner adheres, refusing to make a further reissue.
This is the ground of the relator's complaint, and hence his
application for a mandamus.
A rule to show cause being granted in pursuance of the
former decision of this court in United States ex rel. Miller v.
Black, 128 U. S. 50, the commissioner filed an answer, by
.which he claims, amongst other things, that his official action
in the matter of pensions is not subject to revision by the courts.
He further states that from the records of the Pension Bureau
it appears that the relator has been borne on the pension rolls
and paid as a pensioner as set forth in his petition; which
rates have been fixed by the several commissioners of pensions, from time to time, in the exercise of their lawful discretion in the execution of the several pension laws applicable
to the relator's case; that there is no law prescribing for a
disability of the character of that of the relator a specific
rate of pension; and that, in determining the rates of pension
to which the relator was from time to time entitled, the
several commissioners have had to determine, and in the lawful exercise of their discretion have determined, to what spe-

MILLER v. RAU _L
Opinion of the Court.

cific disability, the rate of pension for which was fixed by law,
the unspecified disability of the relator was equivalent. The
commissioner, further answering, denies that he has failed
and refused to carry out the decision of the Secretary of the
Interior; and alleges that the decision of the secretary made
on the 6th of February, 1885, (as was the fact,) confirmdd the
action of the Pension Bureau in granting the relator a pension
of $8 per month from August 27, 1865 ; $15 per month from
June 6, 1866; $18 per month from June 4, 1872; and $24
per month from March 3, 1883; with the exception that his
pension was improperly reduced on June 4, 1882, from $24 to
$18 per month. The commissioner further states that, in
pursuance of the decision made by the Secretary of the Interior on the 12th day of February, 1885, the Pension Bureau
issued a new certificate to the relator at $24 per month from
4th June, 1882; and at an increase of $30 pet month from
3d March, 1883, and at $50 per month from 14th January,
1885, the date of the last examination of the relator by the"
medical officers of the Pension Bureau; andthat this action
of the Pension Bureau was afterwards affirmed on the relator's
appeal by Assistant Secretary of the Interior Hawkins.
The commissioner, further answering, says:
"That the provision of law under which the relator claims
to be entitled to be carried on the pension rolls and paid a
pension at the rate of seventy-two dollars ($72) per month
from June 17, 1878, is contained in the act of Congress approved June 16, 1880, (21 Stat. at Large, p. 281,.) the operation of which is limited to 'all soldiers and sailors who are
now (i.e., at the date of said act) rec6iving a pension of fifty
dollars per m6nth (850) under the provisions of an act' therein
cited, whereas the relator, according to the showing of his
own petition and in fact, was at that time only receiving a
pension of $18 per month, which said rate had been theretofore fixed, as hereinbefore set forth, by the Commissioner of
Pensions for the time being, in the exercise of his lawful discretion in the premises."
It is true, as stated by the commissioner, that the relator
relies upon the act of June 16, 1880; and that this act only

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

provides for soldiers and sailors who were then (at the date of
the act) receiving a pension of $50 per month; and that the
relator was not then receiving such pension, but only a pension of $18 per month.
Without assuming to decide whether the construction given
by the commissioner to the act was right or wrong, the question which we are to consider is, whether, in adopting the
construction he did, and acting upon it, he disregarded and
disobeyed the decision of the Secretary of the Interior. In
United States ex rel. Dunlap v. Black, 128 U. S. 40, we held
that the courts will not interfere with the executive officers of
the government in the exercise of their ordinary official duties,
even where those duties require an interpretation of the law,
inasmuch as no appellate power is given them for that, purpose; but that when such officers refuse to act at all in a case
in which the law requires them to do so, or when by special
statute, or otherwise, a mere ministerial duty is imposed upon
them, and they refuse to perform it, a mandamus lies to compel them to act or to perform such ministerial duty. And in
United States ex tel. -Millsrv. Black, 128 U. S. 50, argued at
the same time, we held that when a subordinate officer is
overruled by his superior having appellate jurisdiction over
him, his duty to obey the decision of such superior is a ministerial duty, which he can be compelled by mandamus to perform. In the latter case, in which the relator was the same
person as in the present, the record was very meagre, and did
not set forth all the facts; but on the showing of the petition
it seemed primafacie that the Commissioner of Pensions had
refused to carry out the decision of the Secretary of the
Interior; and we held that the court below ought at least
to have granted the relator a rule to show cause why a mandamnus should not issue. The relator thereupon filed a new
petition, being the petition in the present case, and the court
below, in obedience to our decision, granted a rule to show
cause, which the commissioner answered, as before stated. He
afterwards amended his answer by annexing thereto, as part
thereof, a copy of the several decisions of the Seretary of
the Interior, made on the 6th and 12th of February, 1885,

.hILLER

v. RAUKM

Opinion bf the Court.

and a subsequent decision by the assistant secretary, made on
the 28th of July, 1886, confirming the action of the Pension

Buieau.
With the additional facts before us which are now presented by these documents, in connection with the answer of
the commissioner, we are satisfied that there was no failure to
comply with or to carti out the decision of the secretary.
That decision was not that the relator was entitled to $72 per
month from June 17, 1878, and to the other rates for other
dates, as claimed by him; liut, taking the secretary's two
rescripts of. February 6 and February 12, 1855, together, the
decision by the first was, that the relator had been receiving all
that he was entitled to under the law, except from June 4, 1882,
the date when his pension was reduced from $24 per month to
$18 per month; that he should be allowed the difference between those amounts; and that he was entitled to $80 per
month under the act of March 3, 1883; and by the second
rescript, the decision was that the relator came under the
meaning of the law granting pensions to those persons who
require regular aid and attendance. This was all (which is
material) that the secretary decided. And this decision was
fully carried out as the commissioner understood the law
applicable to it. He issued a new certificate to the relator
at $24 per month from 4th June, 18.82, 4nd at an increase .of
$30 per month from March' 3, 1883, and at $50 per month"
from 14th of January, 1885, the latter date being the date of
the last medical examination of the relator.
The new certificate follows the secretary's decision specifically except in regard to the last-item, that of $50 per month
fr6m 14th January, 1885. This item was allowed as the supposed 'proper rate due to the relator's condition as expressed
in the concluding part of the secretary's decision, namely, that
he "came under the meaning of the law granting pensions to
those persons who require regular aid and attendance." The
secretary did not decide what the proper rate for that condition was; but left it to be decided by the commissioner under
the laws then in force. The latter, by his construction of the
law, rated the pension at $50 per month from the last medical

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the, Court.

examination. As'before stated, he considered the act of June
16, 1880, as not applying to the case, because the relator was
not then in receipt of a pension of $50 per month; and he
evidently regarded the case as coming within the terms of the
previous act of June 18, 1874, 18 Stat. 78; R~ev. Stat. § 4698, by
which it was declared that "all persons who, while in the military or naval service of the United States, and in the line of
duty, shall have been so permanently and totally disabled as
to require the regular personal aid and attendance of another
person, by the loss of the sight of both eyes, or by the loss of
the sight of one eye, the sight of the other having been previously.lost, or by the lossof both hands, or by the loss of
both feet, or by any other injury resulting in total and permanent helplessness, shall be entitled to a pension of fifty dollars
per month."
But, whatever may have been the grounds on which the commissioner based his conclusion, it is clear that the decision of
the secretary left the matter open; that he only decided that
the relator came "under the meaning of the law granting
pensions to those persons who require regular aid and attendance," and that the commissioner acquiesced in this decision,
and rated the pension at $50 upon the basis of it.
The relator, not being satisfied with this action of the commissioner, again appealed to the, Secretary of the Interior, and
the decision of the assistant secretary (Hawkins) dated July
28, 1886, was as follows: "After a careful consideration of all
the papers in this case, the Department is of opinion that there
is nothing in the evidence to show that Mr. Miller has been
entitled to a higher rate of pension than that allowed by your
office."
The making of the rate of $50 per month to commence
from January 14, 1885, the. date of the last medical examination of the relator, by which his condition of total and permanent disability was finally established, was based on section
4698J of the Revised Statute§, which declares thrdt "except in
cases of permanent specific disabilities, no increase of pension
shall be allowed to commence prior to the date of the examining surgeon's certificate establishing the same, made under the

TRVST CO. v. GRAkNT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

207
O

Syllabus. -

pending claim for increase .
subject to the approval
of the Commissioner of Pensions."
But enough has been said tQ show that the allegation is unfounded on which'the application for mandamus was based,
namely, the allegation that the Commissioner of Pdnsionq.
refused to obey the decision of the Secretary of the Interiof.
The judgment is, therefore,

Afflimed.,

CENTRAL TRUST COM:PANY v. GRANT LOCOMO-"
TIVE WORKS.

DAYTON, FORT WAYNE AND
ROAD

COMPANY

'.

VflICAGO .RAIL-

GRANT

LOCOMOTIVE

WORKS.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. GRANT.
DAYTON, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO RAILROAD COMPANY v. GRANT.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. GRANT LOCOMO-'
TIVE WORKS.
CENTRAL TIAUST COMPANY. v. GRANT.
APPEALS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTIOT OF OHIO.
No,. 1277, 1278, 1279,1280, 1281, 1282. Submitted March 31, 1890. -Decided

April 21, 1890.

If the decdee of sale in a suit for foreclosing a railroad mortgage pr rides that the purchaser shall pay down a certain sum in cash when the
bid is 'nhade, and such further portions of the bid in cash as shall be
found necessary, in order to meet such other claims as the court -hall
adjudge to be prior in equity to the debt secured -bythe mortgage, the
purchaser Is bound by the decision of the court as to such other claims,
and has no appealable interest therein.
A decree in a suit for foreclosing a railroad mortgage, that the claim by an
intervening creditor of an interest in certain locomotives in the posses-

