ROYER v. SCHULTZ BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

ROYER v. SCHULTZ BELTING CO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

EASTERIN DISTRICT OF MfISSOURI.
Wo. 228.

.Argued April 22, 23,1890. - Decided May 5,1890.

At the trial of an action at law for the infringement of a patent, the plaintiff having introduced testimony cn the question of infringement, the
defendant demurred to the evidence without putting in any of his
own. The court sustained the demurrer and directed a verdict for the
defendant : Held, that the question of infringement ought to have been
submitted to the jury under proper instructions; that it was not a matter of mere judicial knowledge that the mechanical differences between
the two machines were material, in view of the character of the patented
invention, and of the claims of the patent; and that the case was not
one where, If the jury had found for the plaintiff, it would have been
proper for the court to set aside the verdict.

Tmis was an action at law for the infringement of letters
patent. Verdict for the defendant ahd judgment on the ver-dict. The plaintiff sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in thd opinion.
Arb. -. A. WVeaton for plaintiff in error.
Ar. Chester H. .rum and Xrb. Wilmartk
defendant in error.
MRi.

JUSTICE BLATCHFoRD

. Thumton for

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri, by Hrman Royer against The Schultz Belting Company, a Missouri
corporation, for the infringement of letters patent No. 77,920,
granted May 12, 1868, to Herman Royer and Louis Royer, as
inventors, for "an improved machine for treating raw hide."
The patent expired on May 12, 1885, and this suit was
brought on the 16th of November, 1885.
The specification, claims and drawings are as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

"The nature of our invention is to provide an improved
machine for converting raw hides into leather, of that class
which is used for belting, lacings and other purposes where it
is necessary to preserve the native strength and toughness
without destroying or impairing the natural fibres or grain of
the leather.
"In order to accomplish our object, we erhploy a machine
mounted on a suitable frame, having a vertical slotted shaft,
to which is attached, at its base, a bevelled wheel between
two bevelled pinions upon a horizontal shaft. Around the
vertical shaft is placed a row of vertical pins or rollers, held
in place by upper and lower rings, one of which is firmly
bolted to the frame. An iron weight or press is employed fc"
crowding the coil of hide down after it has received the foi
ward and back action around the shaft.
"To more fully illustrate and describe our invention, reference is had to the accompanying drawings, of which figure
1 is a horizontal section through A B; figure 2, a side sectional elevation, showing central shaft; figure 3, a side
sectional elevation ; figure 4, a horizontal section, showing the
hide around the shaft in the circle of pins.
".A represents the frame, of any suitable materials, up
through which the vertical 'shaft B passes, having a slot, B',
through which the end of the hide is placed, where it is held in
place by the set-screws b b b b. 0 C 0 are vertical pins or
rollers set in the rings D and D', the lower one, or D1, being
firmly attached to the frame by bolts o c. A bevelled wheel,
E, is attached to the vertical shaft B, which is actuated by
the bevelled pinions F F placed on the horizontal drivingshaft G. This shaft has a pulley, H, for driving the machine.
An iron weight, I, having an opening through its centre for
the vertical shaft, and vertical grooves, i i, in it to prevent its
turning, is placed upon the inside of the pins or rollers, and,
by pressing upon this weight, the hide is compressed edgewise, after the forw.,rd and backward stretching or pressing
is performed lengthwise.
. "The operation of our machine is as follows: The end of
the raw hide, after it has been deprived of the hair, is intro-

ROYER v. SCHULTZ BELTING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

duced into the slot B', and the set-screws b b b turned against
it, when motion is imparted to the machine, and the hide is
wound tightly around the vertical shaft. When this is accomplished, and sufficient time has elapsed, the shaft is slowly
reversed by throwing the other pinion into gear, when the
"1.T.1:

Fig.2.

7.4

hide commences to uncoil, or, doubling back from the shaft,
which, with the folding back, and pressing against the pins or
rollers, produces the desired resuflt of stretching in one way,
compressing, corrugating, or roughing in the opposite direction, when the weight I is placed up6n the top of the hide, and
' VOL. cxxxv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

is pressed downward, which, in a measure, compensates for
the stretching lengthwise. The hide so operated upon is then
treated with oil and tallow in the usual way.
"By thus treating the hide in our machine, the leather is
rendered veiy tough, and the fibres or grain are not injured,
but imparts to it a rough, corrugated and seamy appearance,
making it more strong and lasting for the purpose- designed
than by any other machine or process.
"Having thus described our invention, what we claim and
desire to secure by letters patent is 1" 1. The vertical shaft B with a slot, B', and set-screws b b b,
said shaft having a forward and back motion, substantially as
and for the purpose described.
" 2. The pins or rollers 0 C 0, set in the rings D and DI,
together with the grooved weight I, substantially as and for
the purposes described."
The defendant set up, in answer to the petition, that the
machine was not the joint invention of the patentees; that it
was in public use by one of the patentees for more than two
years before the patent was applied for; and that it was not
new, giving references on the question of novelty. The answer also denied every allegation in the petition. There was
a reply, putting in issue the new matter in the answer. The
case was tried by a jury.
The bill of exceptions shows that, after testimony had been
put in by the plaintiff on the question of infringement, the
defendant demurred to the evidence introduced by the plaintiff "onthat question without itself putting in any evidence.
The court sustained such demurrer and directed the jury to
find for the defendant. The jury so found, and a verdict was
rendered for it. The ruling of the court is reported in 28 Fed.
Rep. 850. The plaintiff excepted to so much of such ruling as
sustained the-demurrer to the evidence, and to so much of the
instruction of the court as directed the jury to find for the
defendant. A motion for a new trial was made and overruled, the opinion thereon being in 29 Fed. Rep. 281. Judgment being rendered for the defendant, the plaintiff has
brought a writ of error.

ROYER v. SCHIULTZ BELTIKG CO.
Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff's machine has a vertical crib of cylindrical
bars standing in a circle around and concentric with a central
shaft. The ends of these bars are fastened in appropriate
discs or rings, and thus are held in proper position. The crib
does not revolve, but the central shaft does. A vertical slot
is made in the latter, in which one end of a hide is inserted
and there held by set-screws. Several hides can be treated in
the machine at the same time. The ends of the hides being
fastened, the central shaft is made to revolve, and in doing so
it draws the hides into the crib through a space between two
of the bars and winds them in a coil around the shaft. A sufficient number of hides is put into the machine at one time to
fill entirely the diameter of the inside of the crib when they
are compresed. Whet. the hides are all drawn into the crib,
and the coil is compressed around the central shaft, filling the
crib tightly, the motion of the central shaft is reversed, and
the hides are unwound and wound up again around the shaft
in the opposite direction, the hides being all the time under
pressure. This operation of winding, unwinding and rewinding is continued, and the action on each hide is to bend every
particle of it, whether, thick or thin, alike and under the same
degree of pressure. There is a weight on top of the coil of
hides, so as to produce end pressure on them in the direction
of the -shaft, lengthwise of the crib.
The plaintiff contends that no other machine existed before,
which wound hides in one direction and then rewound them
in the other direction, while under pressure, and that this produced a new mode of operation in the treatment of hides,
'which was not the result of a mere improvement on the
mechanism of any prior machine. He therefore urges that
the case falls within the principle applied in Xorey .Machine
Co. v. Iancater,129 UCF.
S. 263, that "where an invention is
one of a primary character, and the mechanical functions performed by the machine are, as a whole, entirely new, all subsequent machines which employ substantially the same means
to accomplish the same result are infringements, although the
subsequent machine may contain improvements in the separate mechanisms which go to make up the machine;" and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.,
Opinion of the Court.

that, the patentees having been the first persons to succeed in
producing an automatic machine for treating raw, hide in the
manner in which their machine treats it, the claims of the
patent must be construed liberally.
* The plaintiff, who is one of the patentees, was examined as
a witness on the trial, and fully explained the patented machine, its mode of operation, -and the improvement it effected
in the conversion of raw hides into leather.
The defendant's machine has in it a cylinder which is arranged horizontally instead of perpendicularly, and corresponds to the cylindrical crib of the plaintiff's machine. The
cylinder is constructed of two half-cylinders of iron, hinged
together, inside of which are fixed semi-circular strips of
wood,'arranged lengthwise of the cylinder, so that the inside
surface of the cylinder, when closed, is practically the same
as the inside surface of- the plaintiff's crib. The ends of
the half-cylinders are secured in position figidly. The general proportions of the two machines are in size about the
same. The defendant's machine has a revolving central shaft,
one-half of the diameter of which is removable in that part of
it to which the hides are fastened. This half is in sections,
which are held to the other part of the shaft, When fastened
to it, by screws. The edges of thehides are fastened to the
shaft by unscrewing such sections and placing one edge of
each hide upon the face of the solid half of the' shaft. The
sections are then screwed on, over the edges of the hides, in
which position they clamp the hides fast between the two
halves of the shaft. There are grooves lengthwise along the
face of the solid half of the shaft, and ribs along the faces of
the removable sections, so that the edge of each hide which is
fastened in the shaft is pressed down into the grooves, and is
thus held more securely. There is a long opening in the side of
the defendant's cylinder, through which the hides are drawn
in by the revolution of the shaft, in like manner as they are
drawn into the crib of the plaintiff's -machine through one of
the openings between the bars. As the defendant's machine
is in a horizontal position, the end pressure on the coil of hides
cannot be produced by a weight. Instead of that, it has two

ROYER v. SCHULTZ BELTING CO.

395-

Opinion of the Court.

sliding discs, one at each end of the horizontal coil of hides,
which discs have a*central hole in them.for the central revolving shaft to-pass through. There is an arrangement of screwbolts, nuts and hand-wheels, so that the two discs may be
drawn together to make end pressure upon the coil of hides,
and retracted therefrom ; and there are springs to make the
pressure yielding.
The view taken by the Circuit Court was, in regard to claim
1, that the defendant's machine did not have. the slot of that
claim; and as to claim 2, that the 'defendant's machine could
not be said to infringe it:
We think the Circuit Court erred in not submitting to
the jury the question of infringement, under proper instructions. If the patented invention .was, within the ruling in
Miorley Machine Co. v. ]Lancaster, 8upra, "one of a primary
character," and the patent was "a pioneer patent," which were
questions of fact to be passed upon by the jury, then the question, on a proper construction of the patent, whether the
defendant's machine infringed its claims, was a question of
fact for the jury to determine, On all the evidence which the
case might present. Tucker v. .Salding,13 Wall. 453.
It was not a matter of mere judicial knowledge that the
mechanical differences between the two machines were material, in view of the character of the patented invention ind of
the claims of the patent; and we are unable to concur with
the view of the Circuit Court, in its opinion denying the
motion for a new'trial, that this is a case where, if the jury
had found a verdict for the plaintiff, on the evidence put in
by him on the question of infringement., all of which evidence
the bill of exceptions states is set forth therein, it would have
been proper for the court to set aside such verdict. Eeyes v.
Grant, 118 U. S. 25, 36, 37.
As there must be a new trial, we forbear remarking furtber
on the questions involved.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed and the case
is remanded, woith a direction to grant a new trial.

