,550

OCTOBER TERA 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. VOORElEES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 282.

Argued April 18,1890.-Decided May19, 1890.

An extra allowance to a contractor for carrying thd mail, under the provisions of Rev. Stat. ยง 3961, for an increase of expedition in carrying
them, is not invalidated by reason of the fact that, prior to its allowance,
the contractor was voluntarily carrying them over the route, with the
increased expedition, and at the contract rate of pay.
United States v. Barlow, 132 U. S. 271, distinguished from this case.

THm case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Mau7y for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. John L. Webster for defendant in error.
M1R. JUSTICE

LAxAR delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action at law brought in the court below by
the United States against Luke Voorhees, to recover the sum
of $14,842.52, alleged to have been illegally paid him for carrying the mails.
The amended petition, filed on the 13th of July, ieo6,
alleged substantially as follows: In the year 1878, a contract
was entered into .between the Postmaster General and the
defendant, by the terms of which the latter agreed to carry
the mails of the United States over route No. 35,040, from
Fargo to Pembina, Dakota, and back, six times a week, on
a schedule of 62 hours a trip, for the sum of $17,000 a year.
On the 30th of July, 1878, by reason of certain requests and
a petition obtained by the defendant and his agents and employds acting for him, representing that the business interests
of the country along the route demanded the expediting of
the schedule time to 40 hours, which were forwarded to the

UNITED STATES v. V00iAEES.
Opinion of the Court.

Postmaster General by or at the solicitation of the defendant,
an order was made by that officer, to take effect August 1,
1878, expediting the schedule apid reducing the running time
upon which the mail was required to be carried over that
route to 43 hours in summer and 50 hours in winter, and
allowing an additional sum therefor of $8500. So much of
the aforesaid order as allowed the defendant the additional
pay (which he afterwards received, from time to time) was
made upon the basis of his sworn statement, as follows:
"I hereby certify that it will take fifty per cent more men
and horses to perform mail service on route 35,040 from Fargo
to Pembina, on a reduced schedule from sixty-two hours to
forty-three hours in summer and fifty hours in winter."
The petition then alleged that from the beginning of the
mail service oih the aforesaid route, under the defendant's
contract, the mail was in fact carried over the route on a
schedule of less than 43 hours, and was so being carried at the
time the order expediting the service was made; that the defendant was engaged in running a line of stage coaches over
the route and carried the mail upon his stages, upon a schedule
of less than 43 hours, for his own convenience and advantage:
and that no additional stock and carriers were employed or
rendered necessary, over and above the number actually em-;
ployed and used by the defendant in performing the service
under the original contract, by reason of the order expediting
the service as aforesaid, nor was the actual speed increased,
but the defendant continued to carry the mails upon an actual
schedule of less than 43 hours, just as he had done before.
It was then alleged that the extra allowance 6f $8500,
made by the Postmaster General as aforesaid, was without
authority of law, and was paid to. defendant and received
by him in violation of section 3961 of the Revised Statutes;
and that the whole amount so 1 iaid to him, from time to
time, between the first day of August, 1878, and the 9th
day of July, 1881, was $14,342.52, for which sum, with interest at 6 per cent per annum from said last date, and also for
costs, the plaintiff prayed judgment.
The defendant interposed a general demurrer, which was

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

sustained by the court in a judgment rendered November 1,
1886, and the United States thereupon sued out this writ of
error.
The assignment of error is a general one, and is merely to
the effect that the demurrer should have been overruled and
judgment entered for the United States
The statutes relied upon to support a reversal of the judgment are sections 3961 and 4057 of the Revised Statutes.
They are as follows:
"Sec. 3961. No extra allowance shall be made for any
increase of expedition in carrying the mail unless thereby the
employment of additional stock and carriers is made necessary,
and in such case the additional compensation shall bear no
greater proportion to the additional stock and carriers necessarily employed than the compensation in the original contract bears to the stock and carriers necessarily employed in
its execution."
I See. 4057. In all cases where money has been. paid out of
the funds of the Post-Office Department under the pretence
that service has been performed therefor, when, in fact, such
service has not been performed, or as additional allowance
for increased service actually rendered, when the additional
allowance exceeds the sum which, according to law, might,
rightfully have been allowed therefor, and in all other cases
where money of the Department has been paid to any person
in consequence of fraudulent representations, or by the mistake, collusion, or misconduct of any officer or other employ6
in the postal service, the Postmaster General shall cause suit
to be brought to recover such wrong or fraudulent payment or
excess, with interest thereon."
The case relied upon in support of the contention of the
plaintiff in error is V-nited States v. Barlow, 132 U. S. 271.
That, case is not in any of its features analogous to the one
at bar. It was an action brought by the United States to
recover from the defendants, sub-contractors for carrying the
mails, moneys paid to them under a mistake caused by their
false representations as to the service.
The court held that the action was maintainable upon two

UNITED STATES v. VOORtHEES.
Opinion of the Court.

grounds : (1) That the moneys sued for, at least thaf portion
which could be recovered back, consisted of an additional
allowance to the defendant of $15,994.77 each year, for an expedited service ordered by the Department upon a false estimate of the additional necessary expenses, which had been
adopted and acted on, upon the false representations of the
defendant, as to the additional number of men and animals
required for such expedited service; (2)That the moneys so
allowed had been paid out of the funds of the Post-Office
Department, under the pretence that service had been performed therefor, when, in fact, such service had not been performed. After referring to sections 3961 and 4057 of the
Revised Statutes, Mr. Justice Field, delivering the opinion of
the court, said: "These .ections would seem to Cover the present case. It cannot be pretended that the allowance for expediting the service over the new route was not made upon
erroneous representations. It is admitted'that such was their
character." p. 279. In another part of the opinion he said: "It
appears that the sums thus allowed and paid to the sub-contractors for stock and carriers, which were never required and
never employed, aggregated $59,592.98, constituting the principal item in the amount claimed in this action." p. 275.
The whole line of argument in the opinion, upon the facts
there stated, is readily observed to be inafpplicable to the facts
alleged in the petition in this case. In that case there was a
pure mistake of fact upon which the post-office authorities
acted, and there wds also fraud upon the part of the contractor,
in making the false statement that additional men and horses
were necessary to perform the service on the expedited schedule.
In this case there is no allegation in the petitioni that the
money sued for was allowed and'paid under a mistake of fact
on the part of the post-office authorities, in making the change
of schedule. Nor does the petition allege that any false statement or any erroneous representations were made on the part
of the contractor, or that any sum was allowed and paid to
the defendant, for men and horses .never required and never
employed. His original contract was for a 62-hour schedule.
The fact that be did perform the service on a schedule of 43

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

hburs, as a matter of private enterprise for transporting express
matter and passengers, as an accommodation to the people
along the line, is not inconsistent with his sworn certificate
"that it will take fifty per cent more men and horses to perform mail service

.

.

.

on a reduced schedule from sixty-

two hours to forty-three hours in summer and fifty hours in
winter." He was a-t liberty at any time to abandon his 43hour schedule and adopt the 62-hour schedule named in his
contract.
By the terms of section 3961 of the Revised Statutes increased compensation, or expedited service, is to be calculated
upon the basis of the ecesswry men and stock required to perform the service under the original contract. It is not alleged
that the defendant did not use 50 per cent more men and
horses undqr the epedited schedule than was necessary in
carrying the mails on a 62-hour schedule; nor is it alleged
that the cost-of the expedited service wa s excessive. We see
no such false representations by the defendant, nor such mistake by the post-offire, set forth in this petition, as would
justify a recovery in this case, and the judgment of the court
below sustaining the o ,murrer is, therefore,
Mr.. JUSTICE FIELD

did not sit in this case or take any part

in its decision.

WASHINGTON & GEORGETOWN RAILROAD COXPANY v. XcDADE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 137.

Argued December 2, 3,1889.-Decided May 19, 1890

An employer of labor in connection with machinery is not bound to insure
the absolute safety of the machinery or mechanical appliances which he
provides for the use of his employ~s, nor is he bound to supply for their
use the best and safest or newest of such appliances; but he is bound
to use all reasonable care and prudence for the safety of those in his

