OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

v.. Babbitt, 16 Wall. 577, 580, 581,; Decatur Bank v. St. Louis
Bank, 21 Wall. 294-301; -11elemore V. Louisiana State Bank,
91 U. S. 27, 28; XMobile c- -Montgomery PR'y. Co. v. Jurey, 111.
U. S. 584, 593 ; Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222, 22[, and
cabes there cited; Evans v. Pike, 118 U. S. 241, 250.
Judgment affirmed.

IROBINSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. THE UNTED' STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 324. Submitted May 1, 1890.-

Decided May 19, 1890.

A bill in equity was filed by the holder of second mortgage bonds of a railroad company, to rescind the safe of the road, made under a decree of
foreclosure, to a committee of the first mortgage bondholders, or to have
the sald declared to be in trust for both classes o'f bondholders, and for
other relief. The bill was demurred to. No actual fraud was alleged.
No offer was made to redeem. It was not averred that there was any
consideration'for an alleged, agreement that the secoid mortgage bondholders should share in the purchase; or that the property was sold for
less than its actual value. It appeared that the second mortgage bondholders had such notice of the foreclosure suit that they might have
intervened in it. A trust company was the trustee under both mortgages, but no collusion by, or unfaithfulness of, the trustee was alleged..
It did not appear that the second mortgage bondholders could have prevented the decree of foreclosure, and the suit was one to foreclose both
mortgages. The members of the committee of the first mortgage bondholders, who were alleged to have made the agreement, Were not made
parties to this suit; Held, that thb bill could not be sustained.

N

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. George IF. Morse for appellant.
.Mr. JTohn C. Coombs and -Mr.Oharles'H H~anson for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE ]3LATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit'in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, by William

ROBINSO

'.

IRON RAILWAY CO.

523

Opinion of the Court.

Robinson, in behalf of himself and all the other holders of the
second mortgage or income bonds of The Iron Railroad Company, who desire to come in and aid in the prosecution of the
suit, and to contribute to the expenses thereof, against The
Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company, the said
Iron RailroadCompany, The Iron Railway Company, (all three
of them being corporations of Ohio,) The Central Trust Company of New York, a New York corporation, and John C.
Coombs.
The substance of the material allegations of the bill is as
follows:
On the 5th of August, 1881, The Iron Railroad Company,
executed to The Central Trust Company of New York, hereinafter called "the Trust Company," a first mortgage, covering its line of railroadl and other property between the Ohio
River, in Lawrence County, and the south line of Jackson
County, Ohio, including sundry other lines -in Lawrence
County, to secure $500,000 of six per cent gold bonds. On
the 1st of August, 1881, the company executed to the same
Trust Company its second mortgage on the same railroad
property and lines, to secure $500,000 of six.per cent income
bonds. This mortgage was made expressly subject to the
other one. The interest to be paid on the income bonds was
to be such amount, hot exceeding six per cent per annum, as
the company should annually declare to be the year's instalment of intercst payable out of the net earnings of the lines
of railroad of the company, interest not to be accumulative,
and none to be considered\due and payable except out of net
earnings applicable to the purpose, and when thb amount
should have been ascertained and declared by the board of
directors. The plaintiff is the holder and owner of twentyfive-of such income bonds, of $1000 each. The interest on
the first mortgage bonds was payable absolutely, semi-annually,
on the first days of January and July, on the presentation of
coupons annexed to the bonds.
Afterwards, The Iron Railroad Company was consolidated
with The Toledo, Delphbs and Burlington Railroad Company,
an Ohio corporation, and the latter was afterwards consoli.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

dated with The Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad
Company, aniother Ohio corporation. Ih August, 1883, the

latter corporation was put into the hands of a receiver. The
earnings of the road of The Iron Railroad Company were at
all times sufficient to pay interest on the first mortgage bonds,
and to pay a large interest on the second mortgage bonds. The
holders of the second mortgage bonds had no voice in either
of the consolidations, and the Trust Company never assented
to them. Both consolidations were illpgal, collfisive, fraudulent and void. No dividend was ever declared payable to
the holders of the second mortgage bonds, though it was
fairly earned. So the holders of such bonds had no opportunity to enter for a breach of the conditions of the mortgage
and to operate the road. The earnings of The Iron Railroad,
which ought to have been applied to keep down the interest
on its bonds, were largely diverted, in consequence of its consolidation with the other roads, and applied to pay their
expebses: and the holders of the second mortgage bonds have
an equitable lien on the property of the companies with which
The Iron Railr'oad Company was consolidated, to have refunded
the amount of such diverted earnings, and to have them applied to pay the interest on the two classes of bonds.
By the terms of the first mortgage, the Trust Company
could have entered at any time after the failure to appropriate the earnings to pay the interest, and could have had
the'earnings of The Iron Railroad kept separate; and there
would have been a surplus to be devoted to paying the
interest on the second mortgage bonds. The Trust Company,
being a trustee under both mortgages, was bound to execute
its trust for.the benefit of the holders of both classes of securities; but, by reason of the apparently inconsistent positions
occupied by the trustee, the holders of the second mortgage
bonds had no fair notice of the proceedings to foreclose and
sell the property, and the trustee gave no notice to any of the
holders. of the second mortgage bonds, of such proceedings,
and they, were unrepresented therein and had no opportunity
to present to the court the facts set forth in the bill.
In July, 1883, the Txust Company filed a bill in equity, in

ROB-TSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio, against The Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
IRailroad Company, to foreclose the mortgages, and the defendant company appeared and submitted to a default and a decree of foreclosure. A receiver and a special master were
appointed, and the receiver was ordered to keep a separate
account of the earnings of each division, which he proceeded
to do, on November 1, 1883. The special master found that
the net earnings of The Iron Railroad for the five months from
November 1, 1883, to April 1, 1884, were $33,716.37. On the
15th of July, 1884, five persons, whose names are given, holders to a greater or less amount of the first mortgage bond,
became a committee of the first mortgage bondholders, under
a contract whereby they were to purchase The Iron IRailroad,
with all its property, under the decree of sale. All, or substantially all, of the first mortgage bondholders signed the
contract with the committee; but the second miortgage bondholders had no notice thereof, and were not invited to participate in the appointment of the committee. A copy of the
agreement is annexed to the bill. It contained a provision
authorizing the committee to negotiate for a participation by
the second mortgage bondholders in the benefits of the trust
created by the agreement. On the 10th of June, 1884, the
holders of the second mortgage bonds were called together in
Boston, and a committee of five of them, of whom the plaintiff
was one, was appointed to confer with the committee of the
first mortgage bondholders, in regar4 to a participation in the
reorganization of the company; and to take such other steps
as might be necessary to protect the interests of the second
mortgage bondholders. On the 19th of June, 1884, the two "
committees met, and it was agreed between them that' the
second mortgage bondholders should participate in the reorganization, and should rank therein substantially as they
ranked previously, subject to a fair division of expenses, it
being understood that a plan of reorganization should be
submitted, and that the committee of the first mortgage
bondholders should purchase the property at the sale. The
railroad and property were sold on the 28th of June, 1884, in

OCTOBEIA TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

pursuance of the decree, and the defendant Coombs, acting
for the committee of the first mortgage bondholders, purchased the same for $500,000, and, as the plaintiff assumed
and had reason to believe, for the benefit of both classes of
security holders. The sale was confirmed on the 18th of
July, 1884, and on the 31st of July, 1884, the committee of
the second mortgage bondholders subrhitted to the committee
of the first mortgage bondholders a plan for reorganization, a
copy of which is annexed to the bill with a copy of a letter
from the committee of the second mortgage bondholders,
- accompanying it. Meantime, immediately after the sale, the
committeq of the first mortgage bondholders proceeded to
organize, under the laws of Ohio, the defendant corporation
The Iron Railway Company, with the intention of transfer'ring the property to it when the sale should be confirmed.
The Iron Railway Company is capitalized at $600,000, with
the purpose of issuing• its stock, dollar for dollar, to the first
mortgage bondholders for their bonds, and for two years'
unpaid interest, and for expenses, without recognizing the
rights of the second mortgage bondholders. Coombs has
transferred the railroad and property to The Iron Railway
Company, which is composed of the parties who made up the
first mortgage bondholders, and no new or innocent party
holds the stock thereof; and the corporation and the holders
of its stock had full notice from the beginning of the rights of
the second mortgage bondholders. In August, 1884, notice
of the claims of the second mortgage bondholders was published in certain newspapers in Boston, where -both classes of
securities are largely or entirely held. On the 5th of August,
1884, the committee of the second mortgage -bondholders
served upon each member of the-committee of the first mortgage bondholders a notice_asserting the' rights of the second
mortgage bondholders, and a like notice upon The Iron Rail-*
way Company, and also published a like notice in two Boston
newspapers; all of which was done before The Iron Railway
Company'issued the stock. In, the various statements which
appear as a matter of publio record, the Trust Company and
The Tqledo., Cincinnati aiid St. Louis Railroad Company have

IOBLSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged that the earnings of The Iron Railroad Company have
been sufficient, if kept separate, to pay the interest on the first
mortgage bonds, such statements being made in the papers
filed in the various foreclosure proceedings to foreclose the
various divisions of The Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
Railroad Company. The committee of the first mortgage
bondholders have stated repeatedly in a public way that their
road was earning sufficient to pay the interest on the first
mortgage bonds, and such claim was made by theni, and by
all that class of bondholders, when The Toledo, Cincinnati and
St. Louis Railroad Company first ceased to pay interest on
the first mortgage bonds.
No demand was ever duly made by the holders of the first
mortgage bonds for their interest, in accordance with the
terms of their mortgage, nor by the Trust Company as trustee.
A portion of the property alleged to have been purchased
under the decree bf foreclosure and sale is covered by the
second mortgage and not by the first, although it is claimed by
the purchasing committee and asserted to have been conveyed
to The Iron Railway Company. The Iron Railway Company
claims that, by virtue of its title from the committee of the
first mortgage bondholders, it has acquired a right to 'the
entire income, from whatever source, of The Iron Railroad
Company and all its property and franchises, although the
same may exceed th sum sufficient to. pay the interest on
such first mortgage bonds. There can be no valid decree of
foreclosure and sale" which will deprive the second mortgage
bondholders from Participating in the net profits and income,
after paying the interest on the first mortgage bonds. By
the terms of both mortgages, the property, if sold, was to be
sold in the city of Ironton, Ohio, and the same place should
have been adopted when sold under decree of the court. The
net earnings of The Iron Railroad Company should have been
applied, from the time of the appointment of the receiver, to
pay the interest on the first mortgage bonds, and the balance
should have been left for the subject of an account between
the receiver and the second mortgage bondholders, in accordance with the terms of the mortgage.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

The bill prays for an answer under oath, and also for a
notice to the second niortgage bondholders to come in and aid
in the prosecution of the suit; that the sale to the committee
of the first mortgage bondholders be rescinded, or so far qualified as to be declared to be in trust for both classes of bondholders; that the sale to The Iron Railway Company be
rescinded or be declared to be for the benefit of both classes
of bondholders; that an account be taken of the amount of
the earnings of The Iron Railroad Company, applicable to the
payment of interest on its first and second mortgage bonds,
received since the road. was placed in the bands of a receiver,
and also an account of the amount of earnings diverted by the
consolidation, prior to the appointment of a receiver, and an
account of the amount of property under the control of the
court, which ought to be applied upon the bonds in lieu of
such diverted earnings; for the application of the same, first,
in payment of the interest overdue on the first mortgage
bonds, and the balance, if any, after that, in payment of interest up to the specified rate on the second mortgage bonds;
and for general relief.
The Iron Railway Company and Coombs put in separate
demurrers to the bill. The demurrer of The Iron Railway
Company alleges want of equity, and also multifariousness, in
that the bill seeks both to have the foreclosure proceedings
avoided and the sale set aside, and to obtain a participation
in the befiefits of the purchase of the property at the sale;
and also alleges that it appears that the plaintiff has not been
injured by the foreclosure proceedings, and that he might,
with diligence, have prevented or remedied any injury by
intervening in the proceedings; that for all such injury there
was a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law, in a suit
against the Trust Company; that it is admitted by the bill
thht default was made in paying the interest due to the
holders of the first mortgage bonds, which continued up to
the time -of the sale of the road and still continues, but it
contains no offer to pay the bonds or the interest due on them,
or to redeem the property from the first mortgage; that it
does not allege any privity with, or duty or liability to, the

ROBINSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

second mortgage bondholders, on the part of the first mortgage bondholders, nor any common interest between them;
that as to so much of the bill as rests upon any alleged agreement or undertaking on the part of the committee of the first
mortgage bondholders, whose names are given in the bill, it
appears that all of them are necessary parties and none of
them are made parties; that all of them and the plaintiff are
citizens of Massachusetts, and that this court has no jurisdiction to enforce the alleged agreemen.t; that the agreement is
not sufficient in form or certainty to perimit its enforcement
or to warrant any recovery of damages on account of any
breach of it; that no consideration is alleged for it, nor is it
alleged to be in such form as imports consideration; that the
committee were not authorized to make any such agreement
with the second mortgage bondholders; that such agreement
and this suit admit the competency of the organization of The
Iron Railway Company, and such agreement and the alleged
authority therefor do not appear to be competent to create
any privity with, or duty or liability to, the plaintiff, on the
part of The Iron Railway Company and its stockholders;
that it does not appear that Coombs was in privity with, or
incurred any obligation or liability to, the plaintiff or any of
the second mortgage bondholders, or was served with any
notice, or had any knowledge, of any, undertaking in behalf
of any second mortgage bondholders, or of any violation
thereof, and no fraud, or knowledge of or complicity in any
fraud, on the part-of Coombs, is sufficiently alleged in the bill;
that it is alleged in the bill that no foreclosure proceedings
such as are set forth can bar the second mortgage bondholders
from the net profits and income, after the payment of the interest on the first mortgage bonds; and that for the recovery
of any property formerly of The Iron Railroad Company
which may not have been covered by the first mortgage but
may have been covered by the second mortgage, it appears
that the parties in interest have a plain, adequate and 6domplete remedy at law.
The demurrer of Coombs is to the same effect as that of
The Iron Railway Company.
VOL. Cx-xv-34

OCTOBER TERM, i889.
Opinion of the Court.

On a hearing on the bill and demurrers, a decree was entered dismissing the bill, with costs. An application for a
rehearing was made, on an allegation of surprise and accident, by reason whereof the case was not properly presented
on the'part of the plaintiff. On a hearing on the application,
a decree was made which states that the plaintiff was heard
in support of his application, as well upon all matters which
he had to advance on the insufficiency of the prior hearing, as
upon any alleged error in the judgment thereupon rendered,
and the defendants were not only heard. in support of the
sufficiency of thehearing and the correctness of the judgment,
but " a lso offered in open court, for the purpose of preventing
any amendment hereafter to said bill by incorporating therein
an offer to redeem said Iron Railroad either from the lien of
the first mortgage, or from the purchaser, if and wheneverin
the future the circumstances and parties may have become
changed, and said property may have increased, in value, to
waive all objection to said bill; if said complainant would
amend the same forthwith by makinig such an offer to redeem,
and accept a decree of this court limiting the time therefor,
.and, on default in making such redemption, to be forever
barred and foreclosed of all right, title and interest in said
property; and said complainant declined said offer. And
thereupon, upon consideration thereof, and for other sufficient
reasons, as well as said offer by said defendants, said motion
for a rehearing is denied, and said judgment sustaining said
demurrer and dismissing said bill, with costs, stands confirmed." The plaintiff has appealed, from the decree dismissing the bill.
It is impossible tc sustain this bill as against the demurrers.
There is no allegation of any actual fraud. There is no offer
to redeem.- There is no averment of any consideration or
mutuality.in the alleged agreement between the two committees. There is no allegation that the property was sold for
less than. its abtual value. The bill admits that the claim of
first mortgage bondholders is superior to that of the
second mortgage bondholders; and the failure of the plain"ff to offer to redeem, is evidonce that he does not think the
Prperty was worth more than it brought at the sale.-

ROBiNSON v. IRON RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

If the plaintiff or the second mortgage bondholders had
exercised due diligence, they might have intervened in the
foreclosure suit. No fraud being alleged, the proper remedy,
if any legal injury was sustained by them, was to apply to
the court in which the foreclosure 'took place to set aside the
decree or the sale. The bill does not allege any fraud as
having been committed by any party to the foreclosure suit,
or that the decree was any -part of a fraudulent arrangement.
There is no allegati6n of any fraudulent practice whereby
any second mortgage bondholders lost any right to bid at the
sale; nor can it be gathered from the bill that they ever had
any idea of bidding or of contributing to the purchase.
As to the allegation in respect of the inconsistent positions
of the Trust Company as a trustee under both of the mortgages, no collusion on-the part of that company is averred
nor is it alleged that the company, so far as it did or could
represent the second mortgage bondholders, was unfaithful to
its trust. There having been an admitted default on the Arst
mortgage, and the.foreclosure proceedings having been properly instituted, there is an absence of any allegation in the bill
that the second "mortgagebondholders, if they had been parties
to the suit otherwise than through the trustee, could have
taken any steps which w~ould have prevented the decree of
foreclosure. The Trust Company was a* trustee under the
first mortgage, which was prior in right to the second. It discharged no more than its*duty to the first mortgage bondholders; and it appears by the bill that the second mortgage
bondholders had a meeting and appointed a committee 'eigh
teen days prior to the sale, and thus had full knowledge of the
situation of affairs, and full opportunity to. apply to intervene
as parties to the suit. Moreover, the bill allegesthat the foreclosure suit was a suit to foreclose both of the mortgages, and,
of course, according to their respective priorities. The bondholders were represented by their trustee, as is established by
numerous decisions.
As to the other allegations in the bill, which q _-±qion the
proceedings which took place in the foreclosure suit prior to
the sale, they were matters- proper for adjudication in that

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

suit, and they cannot, under the circumstances of the case, be
questioned in this suit. We have considered all of them, and

pass them without further observation.
As to the alleged agreenient that the second'mortgage bondholders should participate- in the reorganization, the claim
made in regard to it may be dismissed with a few words. If
there was any such agreement which could be binding, it was
an agreement with the members of the committee of the first
mortgage bondholders as individuals, and they are Dot made
parties to the suit, though their names are given.. Nor does
the plaintiff represent the committee of the second mortgage
bondholders, with whom the agreement is alleged to have been
made. Nor does The ,Iron RMilway Company represent the
committee of the first mortgage bondholders. Independently.
of this, the alleged agreement is too vague and indefinite to
furnish a foundation for its enforcement. On the showing of
the bill, the parties -never entered into any contract, and the
court would have to make one for them. There was no mutuality in the agreement alleged, and no adequate consideration
for it is stated or can be imported. These same considerations
show that the agreement cannot be adjudged to create a trust
for the benefit of the second mortgage bondholders. If the
'plaintiff or the other second mortgage bondholders have any
right of action in respect of any such agreement, it must be
one at law.
We have considered the various questions raised by the bill
and the demurrers, and are of opinion that they do not need
any further remark.
Devree afflned

