OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Syllabus.

of this case upon the mere absence of technical evidence, we
do not assume to sit in judgment upon the decision of the executive in reference to the public character of a person claiming
to be a foreign minister, and therefore have the right to accept
the certificate of the State Department that a party is* or is
not a privileged person, and cannot properly be asked to proceed upon argumentative or collateral proof.
Our conclusion is, as already stated, that the District Court
had jurisdiction, and we accordingly discharge the rule and
.Deny the writs.

NEW

YORK

ELEVATED RAILROAD COMPANY
v. FIFTH NATIONAL BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT
SOUTRERTI

COURT

OF THE UlNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

1No. 106. Argued lTovember 13, 1889.

Decided May 5, 1890.

A party cannot take exception to a ruling under which a trial has been
conducted by his procurement or with his acquiescence.
In an action by the owner of a building and land abutting on a street in the
city of New York, against a company which had constructed an elevated
railroad and station-house over and along the street, the plaintiff claimed
damages for tie injury to the use and enjoyment of his property by obstructing the passage of light and air and diminishing the rents, and also
for the permanent injury to the market and rental value of the property.
Evidence, offered by the plaintiff, of the value of the building, before and
after the construction of the railroad, was excluded by the court upon
the defendant's objection. The defendant contended that the plaintiff's
damages should be limited to the date of bringing the action. But the
court ruled that they might be recovered to the time of the trial; and
evidence was introduced in accordance with that ruling without objection or exception by the defendant to the admission of the evidence, or
to the ruling under which it came in. Held, that the defendant could not
except to a subsequent refusal of the court to admit evidence that the
value of the plaintiff's property had been increased by the construction of
the railroad ; nor to an instruction allowing damages to be 5ecovered to
the time of trial; nor to the refusal of an instruction, requested by the
defendant after the charge, that the recovery could be had only for the
permanent injury to the plaintiff's property.

N. Y. ELEVATED RAILROAD v. FIFTH NAT. B'K.

433

Statement of the Case.
An abutter on a street in the city of New York may recover against a company constructing an elevated railroad and station-house in front of his
building, damages for the discomforts and inconveniences in the occupation of the building, caused by the erection of the defendant's structure, independently of the running of trains thereon.

Tis was an action brought Mtarch 5, 1880, by a national
bank against an elevated railroad company to recover damages for the construction of the defendant's track and stationhouse in front of the plaintiff's banking-house at the southwesterly corner of Third Avenue and Twenty-third Street in
the city of New York.
The complaint claimed dailages for the interference -wit'h
the use, enjoyment. and value of the plaintiffs building, ant
the obstruction of light and air, by the construction of the
defendant's track and station; and for the interference with
the use, comfort and enjoyment of the building by the plaintiff, its officers, servants and tenants, caused by the noise,
steam, smoke and noxious smells attending the running of the
trains, and for the consequent lessening of the rents and profits
of the building; and also for the permanent injury to the use
of the building and to its market and rental value, by the construction of the track and station, and by the jarring and
concussion attending the running of the trains.
The answer denied that the plaintiff had any interest in
Third Avenue and Twenty-third Street, except as shared with
the public at large; denied the other allegations of the complaint, except that it admitted the erection of the elevated
railway and station; and alleged that these structures were
authorized by and in conformity with the statutes of New
York of 1850, c. 140; 1866, e. 697; 1867, c. 489; 1868, c.
855; 1875, cc. 595, 606.
A verdict recovered by the plaintiff at a trial in February,
1885, was set aside and a new trial ordered. 24 Fed. Rep.
114.
At the second trial, in June, 1886, it appeared that Third
Avenue and Twenty-third Street were laid out many years
ago under the statute of New York of 1813, c. 86, ยง 178, by
which the city acquired the title in fee of public streets,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

avenues, places and squares, "in trust, nevertheless, that the
same be appropriated and kept open for and as part of a public street, avenue, square or place forever, in like manner as
the other public streets, avenues, squares and places in the
said city are, and of right ought to be;" that the plaintiff
bought its land and erected its building in 1874; that the
building was four stories high, with business offices in the
basement, the plaintiff's banking-house in the first story, and
apartments let to tenants in the -stories above; and that the
defendant, under and in conformity with the authority conferred upon it by the statutes of INew York, constructed in
1878, and had since maintained, a railway track over and along
Third Avenue, fifteen feet above the surface of the street, and
fifteen feet wide, supported by iron columns, and the west side
of the track being about thirty-five feet from the west side of
Third Avenue; and also a station-house, with stairs leading to
and from it, at the intersection of Third Avenue and Twentythird Street; and that locomotive engines and traihs constantly passed over the track in front of the plaintiff's building.
The plaintiff's cashier, called as a witness in its behalf, testified, without objection by the defendant, that the track and
station obstructed the access of light to and the circulation of
air in the bank on the first story and the apartments on the
second story, and compelled the plaintiff to use gas by day in
the bank; and that this effect continued to the time of the
trial.
He also testified, without objection, that "the structure, as
it existed there, the elevated railway station and the platform
and the bed of the road," reduced the rents of the building.
He was then asked: "How much a year? " The defendant's
counsel interposed, and asked for "an election on the part of
the counsel for the plaintiff as to whether in this action they
:.are claiming for losi of -rents, or for, injury in consequence of
the erection of the road." The court declined to require the
plaintiff's counseltio make an election, but directed them to confine themselves to proving in any proper way that the structure
as a permanent thing, without regard to the running of trains
upon it, injured the plaintiff's building. The cashier there-

N. Y. ELEVATED RAILROAD v. FIFTH NAT. B'K. 435
Statement of the Case.

upon testified, without objection by the defendant, that therehad been a loss in rents of $1000 a year since the structure
had been there, and down to the time of trial.
The plaintiff offered to prove the value of the building,
before and after the defendant's elevated railroad was built.
This evidence was objected to by the defendant, -and excluded
by the court. Thereupon the following colloquy took place:
Defendant's counsel: "You only come down to the commencement of this -action, I suppose? I wilb ask-counsel to
.make a determination of what he is going for. I suppose I
have a right to ask for an election at this point."
The court: "For what length of time do you claim to
recover ?"
Plaintiff's counsel: "We claim for permanent injury."
The court: "If you are entitled to recover, you claim damages should be asessed by the jury until now? "
Plaintiff's counsel: "Io, sir; but until as long as grass
grows and water runs."
The court: "1Maybe they will take it down; if they should,
tlien you would not want to pay back anything. But you
claim the right to recover prospectively. Counsel is entitled
to know what you claim. I think the common law is, as I
stated it, that where there is a consequential injury resulting
from damages the damages may be recovered up to'the time
of the trial, and if they continue the right of recovery continues also. I think I will go. by the common law, unless I see
to the contrary before the trial closes."
Other witnesses were afterwards called and examined by
both parties, without objection, as to the diminution of the
light, air and rental of the building, from the time of the
erection of the defendant's structures to the time of the trial;
and as to the causes of such diminution.
Evidence that the value of the plaintiff's property had increased since the erection 6f this railroad structure, was offered
by the defendant, and objected to by the plaintiff. The court
sustained the objection and excluded the evidence, and the
defendant excepted.
At the close of the evidence, the court denied .successive

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

motions of the defendant to direct a verdict for the defendant
because no facts had been shown sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, and to direct the jury to render a verdict for
the plaintiff for nominal damages only; and the defendant
excepted to the denial of 9ach of these motions.
The court instructed the jury that the plaintiff, having
erected its building after Third Avenue and Twenty-third
Street had been laid out as public sireets, had the right to
have those streets remain"forever as open streets; and that -if
the structure erected by the defendant was such a permanent
thing in the way of either street as an open street, as to make
it cease to be an open street, or cease in a measure to be an
open street, and so to subvert it from an open street into
something else at that place, the plaintiff was entitled to
recover "such damages as it has sustained by reason of the
erection of this structure, which has subverted the street, from
the time it was put up until now," taking into 'consideration
the injury to the part of the building, occupied as a bank, by
hindering access to and egress from it, and by obstructing the
admission of light and the circulation of air; and including
not only an allowance for the expense caused by being compelled to use gas, but a fair compensation for other discomforts and inconveniences in its occupation in consequence of
the defendant's structure; and. also any diminution of the
rents of the rest of the building, by reason of the defendant's
permanent structure standing there in the two streets; but
that no damages were "to be given on account of any inconvenience occasioned by the noise of the running of trains, or
smoke, or cinders, or steam, or gas, or any of those things
connected with the running of the trains."
The defendant excepted to the.instruction that the plaintiff
should be allowed such damages as it had sustained by the
reason of the defendant's structure up to the present time;
and also to that part of the bbarge which allowed a recovery
for discomiforts and inconveniences, other than being compelled to use gas' in so much of the building as was occupied
by the bank.
The defendant, at the end of the charge to the jury, re-

N. Y.'ELEVATED RAILROAD v. FIFTH NAT. B'K. .437
Argument for Plaintiff In Error.

quested the court to instruct them as follows: "The plaintiti
is not entitled to recover in this action for loss of rents or of
rental value. The recovery in this action, if at all, must be
for permanent injury to the plaintiff's property by the defendant's interference with the easement of light and air." The
court refused so to instruct the jury, and the defendant excepted to the refusal.
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff in the sum of
$5000. A motion by the defendant for a new trial was overruled by the court. 24: Blatchford, 89; 28 Fed. Rep. 231.
Judgment was thereupon entered for the plaintiff for the sum
of $5068.33, being the amount of the verdict and interest;
and the defendant sued out this writ of error, which the plaintiff unsuccessfully moved to dismiss for want of a sufficient
amount in dispute to give this court jurisdiction. 118 U. S.
608.
Mr. Julien . .Davies and Mr. Edward
plaintiff in error.

. 1avoallo for

I. jRegarding this as an action upon the case for a continuing interference with certain easements, appurtenant to the
premises of the defendant in error, it was error for the court
to admit evidence and permit a recovery of damage to the
defendant in error, accruing after the commencement of the
action.
The action must be regarded as brought upon one or the
other of two distinct and conflicting theories; either as an
action to recover damages consisting of a permanent depreciation in the value of the premises, due to the destruction, once
for all time, of certain rights or attributes, of value to the
premises in question, due to the erection in the street of a
structure confessedly permanent; or, on the other hand, as an
action on the case to recover, for a continuing interference
with such rights, damages thereby accruing from day to day,
up to the commencement of the action, by the continued
maintenance of a structure, which, because temporary, had not
destroyed the rights.

OCTOBER' TERM, 1889.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

In contemplation of law the trespass is a fresh offence each
day of its continuance, and each trespass constitutes a fresh
cause of action. The plaintiff can bring suit each day upon
the preceding day's trespass; and in no one suit is it possible to
make compensation for all possible trespasses in the future.
From this it follows that the plaintiff is restricted in his
recovery, in any one suit, to the amount of damage suffered by
him up to the time of beginning that suit. This is the doctrine of the Federal Courts. Wightman, v. Providence,1 Cliff.
524:; Bradley v. Washington, Alexandria and Georgetown
Steam Packet Co., 9 Pet. 107; Baltimore c Potomac Railroad v. .Fifth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317, 322. It is
also the doctrine of the courts of the State of New York.
Uine v. New Y-ork Central and Hudson River Railroad,
101 N. Y. 98; Blunt v. e Cormick, 3 Denio, 283; Beckwith v. Griswold, 29 Barb. 291; Fettrech v. Leamy, 9 Bos:
worth, 510, 524; Whitmore v. Bischof, 5 Hun, 176; Plate
v. New York Central Railroad, 37 !N. Y. 472, 475, 476;Beach v. Crain, 2 N. Y. 86, 92; S. C. 49 Am. .Dec. 369;
.Mahon,v. IXZ Y. Central Railroad,24.N. Y. 658; Tlussner v.
Brooklyn City Railroad,114 N. Y. 433.
The doctrine of the Courts of England and of the other
States of the Union is the same. See in addition to Uliie v.
.A
. Central, &c., supra, Battishill v. Reed, 18 C. B. 696;
Robinson v. Bland, 2 Burrow, 1077; Delaware and Raritan
Canal Co. v. Wright, 1 Zabr. (21 N. J. Law) 469; Powers v.
Ware, 4 Pick. 106.
II. The Court erred in failing to instruct the jury that the
damages which they should assess must be. the permanent
injury, if any, to the plaintiff's premises by reason of the
defendant's interference with the easements appurtenant to the
same. Story v. New York Elevated Railroad, 90 N. Y. 122.
The law recognizes the existence of such a cause of action
as is set forth in this complaint. There is recognized by law
such a claim as a claim for permanent depreciation in the
value of real estate, due to the destruction of a right appurtenant to the same, as will appear by the following English and
American cases: Vicklin, v. Williams, 10 Exch. 259; Bonomi

N. Y. ELEVATED RAILROAD v. FIFTH NAT. B'K. 439.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Backehouse, 1 El. B1. & El. 622; . C. 1 El. BL & El. 646;
S. C. 9 H. L. Cas. 503; Lamb v. Walker, 3 Q. B. D. 389;.
.Mitchell v. Darley MAain Colliery Co., 14 Q. B. D. 125; Van
Zant v. The .Mayor, 8 Bosworth, 375 ; L-angdon v. The Mayor,
93 N. Y. 129 ; Baltimore and Potomac Railroad v. Reany,
42 Maryland, 117; Troy v. Cheshire Railroad,23 N. H. 83;
S. C. 55 Am. Dec. 177; Fowle v. New Haven and fforthampton Railroad, 107 Mass. 352; Chicago and Pacific Railroad
v. Stein, 75 Illinois, 41; WFhitehouse v. Fellowes,, 10 0. B.
(N. S.) 766; Uline v. New York Cen. Railroad,101 N. Y. 98.
The theory for which we contend is, that the structure,
as matter of fact, is presumably permanent; that any damage
therefore inflicted upon abutting premises by such permanent
obstruction of easements, consists of a depreciation in the
value of the premises; that this can be measured and recovered in an action at law; that such recovery is a full adjustment of the rights of the parties as to any particular parcel.
But whether or not this prove true, independently of any
assent of theparties to the proposition that the road is permanent, it would appear that the recovery should be measured
by the permanent depreciation in the value of the premises in
any action where such assent is given.
In such case the recovery is had, once for all, and the jucgment a bar to any further action. The New York Court of
Appeals has expressly so decided in reference to this railroad
in an action at law by an abutter in which the recovery was
measured by the permanent depreciation in the value of the
abutting premises, and also decided that such assent of the
parties was evidenced by the form of action brought by plaintiff, and by the request of defendanu corporation to instruct
the jury that the recovery should be measured by the depreciation in value of the premises. Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated Railroad,104 N. Y. 268.
So far as the record goes, it may well be that although a
temporary loss may have occurred at first, due to the interference with the use and occupation, yet that the railroad company might have shown, had it been permitted, that the value
of the premises had been enhanced, not reduced.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

It proved true in many instances that the elevated railways
in New York caused a temporary loss of rents for a period of
a few years, and yet produced in such cases either no permanent depreciation or far less than that anticipated by the
owner.
Here in the case at bar we have the assent of both parties
to this proposition of the permanency of the structure. The
complaint states the permanency, and contains allegations of
permanent depreciation, which would be false if the structure were not permanent. The railroad company assents by
expressly requesting the court to charge that the recovery
must be measured by the depreciation and not by the loss of
rents or interference with the enjoyment.
III. The court erred in permitting the jury to include in
the verdict any damages for loss of rent or interference with
the enjoyment of that portion of the premises occupied by
the bank itself for banking purposes.
XMr.

V. F. .McRae for defendant in error.

M. JusTicn GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The law of the State of New York, as declared by the
Court of Appeals, appears to be as follows: An elevated railroad erected in and over a street pursuant to the statutes of the
State, and with due compensation to the owners of property
taken for the purpose, is a lawful structure. The owners of
lands abutting on a street in the city of New York have an
easement of way, and of light and air, over it; and, through a
bill in equity for an injunction, may recover of the elevated
railroad company full compensation for the permanent injury
to this easement; but, in an action at law, cannot, without the
defendant's acquiescence, recover permanent damages, measured by the diminution in value of their property, but can
zecover such temporary damages only as they have sustained
to the time of commencing the action. In re .New York 1Tevated .Railroad,70 N. Y. 327 ; In re Gilbert Elevated Rail-

N. Y. ELEVATED RAILROAD v. FIFTH NAT. B'K.

441

Opinion of the Court.

,Illy, 70 N. Y. 361; Story v. .ew i York Elevated Railroad,
90 N. Y. 122; .ahr v. .etropolitan Elevated Railway, 104
N. Y. 268; Pond v. Metropolitan Elevated Railway, 112 N. Y.
186. This rule of damages at law has not prevailed in analogous cases decided in other jurisdictions, and collected in the
briefs of counsel; and in the case last above cited the court
observed that "it might 'be productive of less inconvenience
on the whole, if an opposite rule could be adopted." 112
N. Y. 190.
But we are relieved from the necessity of laying down a general rule on the subject, because in this case it clearly appears
that the defendant procured or acquiesced in the rulings under
which the trial was conducted, and thereby waived the right
to object to them. Lahr v. Metropolitan Elevated Railway,
104: N. Y. 268, 294; -Drucker v. Janhattan Railway, 106
N. Y. 157; Husner v. Brooklyn Railroad,114 N. Y. 433;
Shaw v. Stone, 1 Cush. 228, 243.
The complaint was framed in the double aspect of claiming
damages for the injury accruing to the use and enjoyment of
the plaintiff's property by the obstruction of light and air and
the diminution of rents, as well as damages for the permanent
injury to the market and rental value of the property.
The plaintiff began by introducing evidence, to the admission of which the defendant took no objection or exception, of
the injury to the use and enjoyment of the property by
obstructing the access of light and air, and by diminishing the
rents, down to the time of trial.
When the plaintiff afterwards offered evidence of the value
of the building, before and after the erection of the defendant's
structure, the defendant objected to this evidence, and it was
excluded by the court.
The defendant's coufisel thereupon suggested that the plaintiff's damages should come down to the commencement of
the action only; and the plaintiff's counsel replied that they
claimed damages for the permanent injury. The court declined to adopt either of these views, and refused to allow damages to be recovered for fhe permanent injury, but ruled that
damages might be recovered to the time of trial. Yeither

OCTOBER TER'MK, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

party having excepted to this ruling at the time, both parties
must be presumed to have assented to it.
In accordance with that ruling, the trial proceeded upon the
theory that damages were not to be awarded for permanent
injury, but were to be assessed down to the time of trial; and
in accordance with that theory further evidence was introduced by both parties, without any objection or exception by
either party to the admission of the evidence or to the rulings
under which it came in. The defendant having, by his objection sustained by the
court, prevented the plaintiff from introducing evidence of permanent injury to the building, and having permitted the trial
to proceed in accordance with the ruling of the court admitting
evidence of injury to the time of the trial, without excepting
either to that ruling or to the evidence admitted in accordance
with it, could not afterwards be permitted to change front,
and to insist either that the damages must be assessed for the
permanent injury, or that the damages must be limited to the
time of the commencement of the action.
The court therefore rightly declined to permit the defendant to introduce evidence (competent only upon the issue of
injury to the permanent value of the property, which by the
defendant's procurement had been excluded from the considration of the jury) that the value of the property had been
creased by the erection of the defendant's structure; and
r 0htly refused the instruction, requested by the defendant
al Ar the charge, that the recovery could be only for the permanent injury to the plaintiff's property. For the same reason, the defendant's exception to so much of the charge as
allowed damages to be recovered to the time of the trial
cannot be sustained.
There can be no doubt that the court rightly declined to
order a verdict for the defendant, or a verdict for the plaintiff
with nominal damages; and that the instruction which allowed
the jury to award a fair compensation for the discomforts and
jiueonveniences in the occupation of the plaintiff's building,
caused by the existence of the defendant's structure in front
of it, independently of the running of trains thereon, was suffi-

IN

RE LANE.
Syllabus.

ciently favorable to the defendant. Baltimore & Potomac
Railroadv. FOfth Baptist Church, 108 U. S. 317; Buccleuch
v. Metropolitan Board of Works, L. R. 5 H. L. 418.
As the damages recovered appear by the bill of exceptions,
made part of the record, to have been assessed to the time of
trial, the judgment in this case may be a bar to any subsequent action, at least for damages suffered before that time.
Hussner v. Brooklyn Railroad,114 N. Y. 433, 438; WTarner
v. Bacon, 8 Gray, 397, 402; Goslii v. Corry, 7TMan. & Gr.
342, 345; S. C. 8 Scott N. IR. 21, 24. But that point is not
Judgment aftrlmned.
now presented for adjudication.
Mr. JUSTiCE BREWER, not having been a member of the court
when this case was argued, took no part in the decision.

IN IRE LANE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 12. Original.

Argued April 15, 1890. -Decided

April 28,1890.

This court can issue a writ of habeas corpus in the exercise of its original
jurisdiction only when the inferior court has acted without jurisdiction,
or when it has exceeded its powers to the prejudice of the party seeking
relief.
At the time when the indictment in this case was found Oklahoma was not
a territory with an organized system of government, in the sense in
which the word "territories" is used in the act of February 9, 1889, 25
Stat. 658, ยง 120.
An indictment was so framed as to permit it to be construed as charging
the common law offence of rape, (as it alleged the carnal knowledge
to have been without the consent of the woman,) or the statutory
offence, (Act of Feb. 9, 1889, 25 Stat. 658, c. 120) of carnally and
unlawfully knowing a female under sixteen years of age, (as .it
alleged that the woman was under sixteen years of age). It was not
signed by the District Attorney of the United States. No motion was
made to compel the prosecuting attorney to elect on which charge he
would try the prisoner. The court instructed the jury that the allegations respecting the will of the woman might be rejected as surplusage,
and the rest of the indictment be good under the statute. The jury
found the prisoner guilty of the statutory offence, and judgment was
entered accordingly ; Held,

