OCTOBER TERM, 1889.'
Syllabus.

kcGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
BIYAN v. VIRGINIA.
COOPER v. VIRGINIA.
ELLETT v. VIRGINIA.
CUTHBERT v. VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

IN RE BROWN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

HUCLESS v. CHILDREY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

.YASHON v. GREENHOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
VIRGINIA.

Nos. 1057,1055, 1050,1058, 1142, 1217,1216, 23. Argued January 21, S90. - Decided
May 19, 1890.

The decisions Hartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672; Antoni v. Greenhow,
107 U. S. 769; Virginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269; Barry v. Edmunds,
116 U. S. 550; Chaffin v. Taylor, 116 U. S.567; Royall v. Virginia, 116 U. S.
572; Sands v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 585; IRoyall v. Virginia, 121 U. S. 102;
In re Ayers, In re Scott and In re McCabe, 123 U. S. 443, are reviewed;
and, without committing the court to all that has been said, or even all
that has been adjudged in those cases, on the subject of the act of the
legislature of Virginia of March 30,. 1871, to provide for the funding
and payment of the public debt, and the issue of coupon bonds of the
State under its provisions, it is now Held,
(1)'That the provisions of the act of 1871 constitute a contract between
the State of Virginia and the lawful holders of the bonds and coupons issued under and in pursuance of said statute;
(2) That the vArious acts of the assembly of Virginia passed for the
purpose of restraining the use of said coupons for the payment of
taxes and other dues to the State, and imposing impediments
and obstructions to that use, and to the proceedings instituted for

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.

. Syllabus.
establishing their genuineness, do in many respects materially impair the obligation of that contract, and cannot be held to be valid
or binding in so far as they have that effect;
(3) That no proceedings can be instituted by any holder of said bonds
or coupons against the Commonwealth of Virginia, either directly
by suit against the Commonwealth by name, or indirectly against
her executive officers to control them in the exercise of their
official functions as agents of the State;
(4) That any lawful holder of the tax-receivable coupons of the State
issued under the act of 1871 or the subsequent act of 1879, who
tenders such coupons in payment of-taxes, debts, dues and demands due from him to the State, and contihues to hold himself
ready to tender the same in payment thereof, is entitled to be free
from molestation in person or goods on account of such taxes,
debts, dues or demands, and may vindicate such right in all lawful modes of redress- by suit to recover his property, by suit
against the officer to recover damages for taking it, by injunction
to prevent such taking where it would be attended with irremediable injury, or by a defence to a suit brought against him for
his taxes or the other claims standing against him; that no conclusion short of this can be legitimately drawn from the series of
decisions reviewed by the court without wholly overruling that
rendered in the Coupon Cases and disregarding many of the rulings
in other cases, which the court would be very reluctant to do;and that to this extent the court feels bound to yield to the
authority of its prior decisions whatever may have been the former
views of any member of the court.
In MeGahey v. Virginid, Bryan v. Virginia and Cooper v. Virginia it is now
Ileld,
.1)That the provision in the act of the General Assembly of Virginia
of January 26, 1886, which imposes upon the taxpayer the duty/ of,
producing the bond from which the coupons tendered by him in
payment of taxes were cut, at the time of offering the coupons
in evidence in court, is an unreasonable condition, in many cases
impossible to be performed, so onerous and impracticable as not
only to affect, but to destroy the value of the instruments in the
hands of the holder who had purchased them; and is repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States;
(2) That the 'provision in the act of that Assembly of January 21, 1886,
which prohibits expert testimony in establishing the genuineness
of coupons so offered in evidence, is in like manner unconstitutional;
(3) That it is questionable whether the act of that assembly of May 8th,
1887, which authorizes and requires a suit to be brought pgalnst
the taxpayer who tenders payment of his taxes in coupons, a well
as the acts which require their rejection, are not laws impairing
the obligation of the contract.
In Ellett v. Virginia it is Held; that in tendering coupons in payment of a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.
judgment recovered by the State for taxes and costs of suit the taxpayer
is entitled to tender coupons in payment of the costs as well as of the
taxes.
In Cuthbert v. Virginia it is Held; that the special license required by the
act of March 15, 1884, as amended by the act of Mlay 23, 1887, for the
right to offer tax-receivable coupons for sale was a material interference
with their negotiability, and impaired the contract.
In Brown's Case it is Held; that whether the passage of a new statute of
limitations, giving a shorter time for the bringing of actions tlhan had
existed before, as applied to actions which had accrued, so affected the
remedy as to impair the obligations of the contract, within the meaning
of the Constitution, cepends upon whether a reasonable time is given
for bringing such actions; that no one rule can be laid down for determining, as to all cases alike, whether the time allowed was or was
not reasonable; that that fact must depend upon the circumstances in
each case; and that under the circumstances of this case, and the
peculiar condition of the securities in question, the limitation prescribed
by ยง 415 of the Code of Virginia of 1887. with regard to the obligations
of the State is unreasonable and impairs the obligation of the contract.
In Hucless v. Childrey it is Held; that the requirement by the laws of Vrginia that the tax for a license to sell, by retail, wine, spirits and other
intoxicating liquors shall be paid in lawful money of the United States
does not impair the obligation of the contract made by the State with
the holders of the coupons of its bonds, that they shall be received in
payment of taxes.
In Vashon v. Greenhtow it is IHeld, that the st itute of Virginia requiring the
school tax to be paid in lawful money of the United States was valid.
notwithstanding the provision of the act of 1871, and was not repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States.
THESE cases, all of which grew out of the legislation of the
State of Virginia regarding its tax-receivable coupons, were
argued together; and, although having distinguishing features, it has been found by the court more convenient to treat
them together in its opinion.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, on behalf of the court, prefaced the
cases in detail, by a general review of the previous action of
the court in this matter. Ile said:
These cases, like the T7rginia Couon Cases, decided in
April, 1885, and reported in 114 U. S. 269, and like Barry v.
L'dtmwnds and other cases argued at the same time, decided in
Feb'ruary, 1886, and reported in 116 U. S. 550, et-., arise upon
certain tax-receivable coupons attached to bonds of the State

McGAHEY v. VIRGLNIA.
Statement of the Case.

of Virginia issued in reduction and liquidation of the state
debt under the acts of March 30, 1871, and March 28, 1879.
The present appeals are a continuation of the controversy
arising upon said coupons as receivable and tendered in payment of taxes and other state dues.
The origin of these bonds and coupons has been fully explained in former cases; but the proper disposition of the
cases now to be considered will be greatly facilitated by presenting a connected resumi of the legislative acts relating to
and affecting the said securities, and of the decisions heretofore made in reference to said acts.
The state debt of Virginia amounted, prior to the late civil
war,, to more than thirty millions of dollars. After the war
it became a matter of great importance to arrange this debt
in such manner as to bring it witlhrn the control and means of
the State. West Virginia had recently been separated from
the parent State and had participated in the advantages of the
money raised' by the issue of the state securities. It was supposed by those who were best qualified to know the facts that
at least one-third of the state resources was lost by this excision of territory, and the legislature of Virginia deemed it
nothing more than equitable that the new State should lear
one-third of the state debt. A proposition was therfore
made to the bondholders of the State to receive-two-thirds of
the amount due them in new bonds payable thirty-four years
after date, with coupons attached thereto receivable, after becoming due, in payment of taxes and other claims and demands
due to the State. This scheme was formulated by the act of
March 30, 1871, entitled "An act to provide for the funding
and payment of the public debt," and was acquiesced in by
the public creditors, or the. great majority of them, who
accepted and received the bonds provided for in the act, which
were looked upon as a favorife security in consequence of the
value attached to the coupons as legal tender instruments in
the payment of taxes and public dues. The act, amongst other
things, provided as follows:
"SEcTiox 2. The owners of any of the bonds, stocks or interest certificates heretofore issued by this State which are recog-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

nized by its constitution and laws as legal" [except certain
specific securities named] "may fund two-thirds of the amount
of the same, together with two-thirds of the interest due or to
become due thereon to the first day of July, 1871, in six per
centum coupon or registered bonds of this State

.

.

.

to

become due and payable in thirty-four years after date, but
redeemable

.

.

after ten years, the interest to be payable

semi-annually on the first days of January and July in each.
year. The bonds shall be made payable to ofder or bearer
and the coupons to bearer, and registered bonds payable to
order may be exchanged for bonds payable to bearer, and registered bonds may be exchanged for coupon bonds, or vice
versa, at the option of the holder. The coupons shall be payable semi-annually, and be receivable at and after maturity
for all taxes, debts, dues and demands due the State, which
shall be expressed on their face.

"

-Provision was made in the third section of the act for the
issue of cer'tificates for oPe-third part of the debt which was
not funded in said bonds, the payment of which certificates it
was declared ivould be provided for in accordance with such
settlement as should thereafter be had between the States of
Virginia and West Virginia in regard to the public- debt of
the State existing at the time of its dismemberment.
By the fourth section the treasurer was authorized and
directed to cause to be prepared engraved or lithographed.
registered bonds and bonds with c6u.pons, and certificates of
the character mentioned in the second and third sections,
and, when prepared, to commence the issuance of the same.
It was further enacted that the bonds and certificates should
be signed by the treasurer and countersigned by the auditor;
that the coupons should be signed by the treasurer, or that a
faV 8imile of his signature should be stamped or engraved
thereon. The bonds were to be issued in series, and those of
each series .to be numbered from one upwards, as issued, and
the coupons, in addition to the number of the bond to which
they were ,tttached, were to be numbered from one to sixtyseven. The surrendered bonds were to be cancelled and deposited in the office of the state treasurer.

MeGAKEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

By section 5 certain assets belonging to the State, when
realized or converted into .money were to be paid into the
treasury to the credit of a sinking fund created for the purchase and redemption of the bonds issued under the act, and,
after 1880, inclusive, a tax of two cents on-a hundred dollars
of the assessed valuation of all property in the State was to be
applied in like manner. The treasurer, the auditor of public
accounts and second auditor were appointed commissioners of
the sinking fund.
It has always been contended on the part of the bondholders that this statute created a contract between them and the
State, firm and inviolable, which the legislature had no constitutional right to violate or impair; and such was, for
several years, the uniform holding of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. See Antoni v. Wright, 22 Grattan, 833,
November term, 1872; Wise v. Rogers, 24 Grattan, 169;
Clarke v. Tyler, 30 Grattan, 134. A different view, however,
has since been taken by the Court of Appeals, which nbw holds
that the act of 1871 was unconstitutional from its inception,
being repugnant to certain provisions of the constitution of
the State adopted in 1869. An elaborate argument to this
effect is contained in the opinion of the court rendered in
one of the cases now before us, Vaszson v. Greenow, decided
January 14, 1886. In ordinary cases the decision of the
highest court of a State with regard to the validity of one of
its statutes would be binding upon this court; but where the
question raised is whether a contract has or has not been
made, the obligation of which is alleged to have been impaired
by legislative action, it is the prerogative of this court, under
the Constitution of the United States and the acts of, Congress relating to writs of error to the judgments of state
courts, to inquire, and judge for itself, with regard to the making of such contract, whatever may be the views or decisions
of the state courts in relation thereto.
The decisions of this court, therefore, in reference to the
question whether a valid contract was made by the statute in
question between the State of Virginia and the holders of the
bonds authorized by said act, are to be considered as binding

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

upon us, although a contrary view may have been taken by
the courts of Virginia; and in view of this principle of constitutional law, and of the decisions made by this court, we have
no hesitation in saying that the act of 1871 was a valid act,
and that it did and does constitute a contract between the
State and the holders of the bonds issued under it, and that
the holders of the coupons of said bonds, whether still attached thereto or separated therefrom, are entitled, by a
solemn engagement of the State, to use them in payment of
state taxes and public dues. This was determined in Hatman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672, decided in January, 1881 ;
in Antoni v. Greenhow, 107 U. S. 769, decided in March,
1883; in the

V'irginia Coupon Cases, 114 U. S. 269,.decided

in April, 18S5 ; and in all the cases on the subject that have
come before this court for adjudication. This question, therefore, may be considered as foreclosed and no longer open for
consideration. It may be laid down as undoubted law that the
lawful owner of any such coupons has the right to tender the
same after maturity in absolute payment of all taxes, debts,
dues and demands due from him to the State. The only
question of difficulty which can arise in any case is as to the
mode of relief which the owner of such coupons is entitled to
in case they are refused when properly tendered in making
his payment, or, as to the cases which may be excepted from
the operation of his right.
For, almost from the start, the legislature of Virginia has
from time to time enacted various laws calculated to embarrass the holders of said coupons in the free use of them for
the payment of taxes and other dues. As early as March,
1872, an act was passed prohibiting the officers charged by
law with the collection of taxes from receiving in payment
anything else than gold and silver coin, United States Treasury notes, and notes of the national banks, and repealing all
other acts inconsistent therewith. This law was under consideration in the case of Antoni v. W~right, 22 Grattan, 833,
before referred to, and the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia decided that in issuing these bonds the State entered
into a valid contract with all persons taking the coupons to

MoGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

receive them in payment of taxes and state dues, and that
the act of 1872, so far as it conflicted with this contract, was

void.
In Clarke v. Tyler, 30 Grattan, 134, decided in 1878, it was
said that this decision in Antani v. Wright "must be held to
be the settled law of this State."
By an act passed March 25, 1873, it was declared that every
officer charged with the collection of taxes should deduct from
the matured coupons which might be tendered to him in payment of taxes or other dues to the State, the tax upon the
bonds from which the coupons were cut, which tax was declared to be fifty cents on "the hundred dollars market value
of said bonds. This law Was repeated in the act of 1876, and
bore oppressivel r upon the holders of the coupons, inasmuch
as it compelled them to pay the tax due on bonds of which
they were not the owners, and of the owners of which they
had no knowledge. It was a clear impairment of the obligation of the contract with the holders of the coupons. The
validity of this act came before this court for consideration in
the case of Eartman v. Greenhow, 102 U. S. 672, 685, and it was
held to be unconstitutional. Mr. Justice Field, speaking for
the court in that case, said:"We are clear that this act of
Virginia of 1876, requiring the tax on her bonds issued under
the funding act of March 30, 1871, to be deducted from the.
coupons originally attached to them, when tendered in payment of taxes or other dues to the State, cannot be applied to
coupons separated from the bonds and held by different owners, without impairing the contract with such bondholders contained in the funding act, and the contract with the bearer of
the coupons."
By an act of the legislature of Virginia, approved on the
28th of March, 1879, another plan for the settlement of the
public debt was promulgated. By the first section it was
enacted, "That to provide for funding the debt of the State,
the governor is hereby authorized to create bonds of the State,
registered and coupon, dated the 1st day of January, 1879, the
principal payable forty years thereafter, bearing interest at
the rate of threeper centper annum for ten years, and at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

rate of fourper centum _per annum for twenty years, and at
the rate of five per centur per annum for ten years, payable
'in the cities of Richmond, New York or London, as hereinafter provided, on the 1st days of July and January of each
year, until the principal is redeemed." "The coupons on said
bonds shall be receivable at and after maturity for all taxes,
debts, dues and demands due the State, and this shall be
expressed on their face., The holder of any registered bond
shall be entitled to receive from the treasurer of the State a
certificate for any interest thereon, due and unpaid, and such
certificate shall be receivable, etc. All obligations created under
this act shall be forever exempt from all taxation, direct or indirect, by the State or by any county or corporation therein,
and this shall be expressed on the face of the bonds." "The
bonds hereby authorized shall be issued only in exchange for
the outstanding debt of the State, as hereinafter provided."
Bonds were issued under this act in conformity with its requirements, and some of the coupons thereon are the subject of
controversy in one or more of the suits now before us for consideration. The questions relating to their receivability for
taxes and other public dues, and to the validity of subsequent
laws passed in derogation or obstruction thereof, are the same
as those which arise under like circumstances upon the coupons of the bonds issued under the act of 1871.
At the session of the General Assembly held in 1882 still
another scheme for funding and reducing the state debt was
formulated by an act approved February 14 of that year,
which specified the amount of each class of indebtedness supposed to be obligatory upon the State of Virginia in relation
to the corresponding obligation of the State of West Virginia,
and the rate of percentage at which new bonds were proposed
to be issued to the public creditors according to the different
classes of the debts. These new bonds were to be dated July
1. 1882, and payable July 1, 1932, with interest at three per
cent per annum. The commissioners of the sinking fund
were authorized to issue them either as registered or coupon
bonds, but no security was proposed for the payment of the
bonds or coupons except the pledged faith of the State. This

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

act was called "the Riddleberger act," and was declared to be
the final proposition which the State would make to its creditors. Of course it was not to be expected that those who
held bonds issued under the acts of 1871 or 1879, with coupons invested with the quality of legal tender for the payment of taxes and other public dues, would willingly surrender
their bonds in exchange for the bonds to be issued under the
Riddleb6rger act; and for the purpose apparently of creating
motives to induce such bondholders to make the exchange,
several ancillary bills were passed at the same session,* calculated to discourage and hamper the use of the tax-paying
coupons of 1871 and 1879. One of these bills, ajproved the
14th of January, 1882, (recited in full in 107 U. S. 771-774,) required that whenever any taxpayer should tender to any person
whose duty it was to collect or receive taxes, debts or demnds
due the Commonwealth, any papers purporting to be coupons
detached from bonds of the Commonwealth issued under the
act of 1871, in payment of any such taxes, debts and demands,
the person to whom such papers were tendered should receive
the same, giving the party tendering a receipt stating that he
had received the same for the purpose of identification and verification, but that he should at the samie time require such taxpayer to pay his taxes in coin, legal-tender notes or national
bank bills, and give him a receipt therefor. In case of his
refusal to pay, the taxes should be collected as all other delinquent taxes were collected. The act then provided for a
proceeding in the county court or hustings court of the city
to ascertain whether the coupons tendered were genuine legal
coupons receivable for dues or not. This proceeding was to
be instituted by the petition of the taxpayer, and defended
by the Commonwealth's attorney, and the matter was to be
tried by jury. If the decision should be in favor of the taxpayer, the judgment was to be certified to the treasurer, who
thereupon was required to receive the coupons for taxes and
refund the money paid by the taxpayer out of the first money
in the treasury. The law further provided that, if any taxpayer should apply for a mandamus to compel the collector to
receive his coupons for taxes, a similar proceeding should take

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

place. for the purpose of ascertaining the identity and validity
.of, the coupons, and when found to be genuine a mandamus
might issue. The suggestion upon which this law was based,
as recited in the preamble thereof, was, that many spurious,
stolen and forged bonds were in circulation, which made it
imprudent to receive coupons in payment of taxes without an
investigation first had with regard to .their genuineness and
validity. It is apparent that such a cumbrous mode of proceeding was a very awkward substitute, so far as the taxpayer
was concerned, for the reception of his coupons as so much
money when presented.
Another act, approved on the 26th of January, 1882, provided that in case of proceedings instituted against a taxpayer
for the collection of his tax, notwithstanding his tender of
coupons in payment thereof, he should be authorized to pay
the tax under protest, in lawful money, and might within
thirty days thereafter sue the officer for the amount, and if
it should be determined that it was wrongfully collected, the
amount should be returned, and it was declared that no writ
of injunction, supersedeas, mandamus, prohibition or other
writ whatever should be issued to hinder or delay the collection of tax.
Another act, approved on the Tth of April, in the same year,
changed the general law of mandamus to coincide with the
pi'ovisions of the act of January 26th.
The validity of these acts came before this court for consideration in the case of Antoni v. Greenhow, and the question
in that case was whether they so far affected the remedy of
the holder of coupons as to impair the obligation of the contract made by the State to receive them for taxes and other
dues. This was the general question presented, although it is
true that 'the particular question in that case was, Wvhether the
proceeding by mandamus to compel the acceptance of the
coupons in payment of taxes and other dues was unconstitutionally obstructed. The case was instituted by Antoni, a
taxpayer, by a petition to the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia for a mandamus against Greenbow, the treasurer of
the~city of Richmond, to compel him to accept a coupon ten-

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

dered by the petitioner in part payment of his taxes. The
treasurer answered that he was ready to receive the coupon
as soon as it had been legally ascertained to be genuine and
by law receivable, referring, of course, to thelaw as it then
stood, prescribing the special proceedings before mentioned
for ascertaining the genuineness and validity of coupons. To
this answer a demurrer was filed. Upon the hearing the
court was equally divided on the questions involved, and denied the writ. The judgment was brought by writ of error
to this court, and the precise question was, whether the acts
of 1882 unconstitutionally impeded the remedy by mandamus.
The court, in discussing the question, discussed the general
effect of the said statutes, and came to the conclusion that
they did not interpose any material obstructions to the proceeding, so as to be obnoxious to the charge of impairing the
obligation of the contract.
Under all the obstacles with which the holders of coupons
now had to contend in utilizing those instruments in the payment of taxes and public dues, (the only way in which any
satisfaction thereof could be obtained,) they still succeeded in
disposing of many of them, and more stringent legislation was
finally resorted to for the evident purpose of suppressing their
use altogether. In the session of 1884 several acts of the
General Assembly were passed to this end. By an act approved March 12, 1884, it was made the duty of the attorneys
for the Commonwealth to defend the suits brought by taxpayers, and, if decided against the Commonwealth, to carry
the case to the higher courts by appeal; to defend all suits
brought in the federal courts; and to carry judgments against
the Commonwealth or the collector of taxes by appeal to the
Supreme Court of the United States. An act approved March
13, 1884, declared that no action of trespass or on the case
should be brought or maintained against any collecting officer,
for levying upon the property of any taxpayer who had tendered in payment, in whole or in part, any coupons cut from
bonds of the State for such taxes, and who should refuse to
pay his taxes in gold, silver, United States treasury notes or
natibnal bank notes. Another act, approved on the 15th- of
VOL. cxxv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case..

M[arch, 1884, required all licenses to be paid in lawful money
of the United States. Still another act, approved March 19,
1884, required that all coupons received for taxes, beyond
what they would have been exchanged for under the Riddleberger act, sh-uld be charged to the bond from which they
were clipped, as a payment on the principal of the bond.
Finally, by the tax act, approved March 15, 1884, section 65,
it was declared that no person should sell tax-receivable coupons from bonds of the State of Virginia without a special
license, for which privilege he should pay one thousand dollars
for each office o" place of business kept for that purpose, and
in addition thereto a tax of twenty _per centare upon the face
value of all tax-receivable coupons sold by him, and should
give to the purchaser a certificate stating that he had sold
such coupons to the purchaser, naming him and specifying the
number and amount of the coupons and date of sale; and
whenever such coupons should be tendered for taxes the
broker's certificate should .be delivered to the collector. This
section was subsequently amended by an act passed May 23,
1887, so as to include in the prohibition not only the selling
or offering to sell tax-receivable coupons, but the tendering,
passing or offering to tender or pass for another any such
coupons, without a special license therefor, and the license fee
wa- made $1000 for the privilege of selling or offering to sell
coupons in each county, city or town of over 10,000 inhabitants, and $500 for each county, city or town of under 10,000
inhabitants; and the privilege was confined to selling, tendering and passing such coupons to taxpayers residing, or owning
property subject to tax, within the county, city or town in
which the license was obtained, and it was declared that any
person violating this provision should be deemed gouilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction should be fined, at the
discretion of a jury, not less than $500 nor more than $2000.
Section 91 declared that every attorney-at-law should pay an
annual license fee of fifteen dollars if under five years' practice, and twenty-five dollars if over five years' practice; but
that no attorney thus licensed should be allowed to bring suit
against the Commonwealth, or any treasurer or collector of

MNcGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

taxes, for the recovery of money for coupons tendered for
taxes, unless he took out a special license therefor, for which
privilege he should pay a specific license tax, in addition to
the tax before required, of two hundred and fifty dollars.
In April, 1885, after the passage of these various acts, the
7'irginia Couporn Cases (so called) reported in 114 U. S. 269,
etc., came before this court for consideration. There were
eight of these cases. One of them, Poindexter v. Gi'eenhow,
the leading case in the report, was an action of detinue
brought by Poindexter, a taxpayer, against Greenhow, treasurer of Richmond, for a desk of the plaintiff, of the value of
thirty dollars, seized and taken by Greenhow on the 25th of
.April, 1883, for the purpose of raising the taxes due from the
plaintiff after he had tendered coupons in payment thereof.
Upon an agreed statement of facts, no dispute being raised as
to the genuineness of the coupons, judgment was given in the
hustings court of Richmond for the defendant, on the ground
that the plaintiff should have paid his tax in lawful money and
pursued the remedy pointed out in the acts of 1882. As this
was the highest court in the State in which a decision in the
case could be had, the judgment was brought by writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the United States, and the question
was now directly raised, whether the restraining acts passed
by the legislature of Virginia were of such force and validity
as to prevent the taxpayer from suing the collecting officer for
taking his goods in satisfaction of taxes after a tender of
coupons for the payment thereof, without adopting the proceedings required by the said acts. This court held that the
acts were unconstitutional so far as they prohibited the collector or receiver of the taxes from accepting coupons issued
under the act of 1871 in payment of taxes, according to the colttract contained in said act, and imposed upon the taxpayer the
circuitous and onerous proceeding of establishing the genuineness of his coupons in court; that the tender of the coupons
was equivalent to the tender of legal money in payment of
the tax, and exonerated the taxpayer from further molestation
in respect thereof; and-that, if he continued to hold himself
in readiness to pay said tax in the coupons tendered, his

OCTOBER TERI", 1889.
Statement of the Case.

property could not lawfully be taken in satisfaction of the
same.
The court distinguished this remedy of the taxpayer from
that which was in question in the case of Antoni v. Greenhow,
in that in the latter case the proceeding by mandamus alone
was under consideration, and that form of proceeding for relief was held not to be materially obstructed by the acts of
1882; and it was held that nothing in the decision of that case
concluded the rights of taxpayers and coupon holders in reference to other remedies which the law gave them for the unlawful seizure of their property in satisfaction of the tax, after
having duly tendered coupons in payment thereof. Therefore,
without expressly overruling the case of Antoni v. Greenhow,
the court decided that the acts referred to were unconstitutional, so far as they had the effect of depriving the taxpayer
of his remedy by detinue, or trespass, or case, or other proper
action, for unlawful seizure of his goods after tendering taxreceivable coupons in payment of his taxes. The judgment
of the hustings court was, therefore, reversed. The question
was very fully and elaborately discussed by Mr. Justice Matthews in delivering the opinion of the court, although therA
was a dissenting opinion on the part of the Chief Justice and
three of the Associate Justices.
Two other of the coupon cases, TIlte v. Greenhow and Ca ti
v. Taylor, were cases of trespass for taking the property of
the taxpayers in payment of taxes after they had tendered
coupons in payment thereof, and were in all substantial respects
similar to the case of Poindexter v. Greenhow, and were decided
in the same way. In one of them, Chaffln v. Taylor, the act
of March 13, 1884, which expressly forbids an action of trespass or case against a collecting officer, was referred to and
relied on by the defendant in the action.
"A fourth case, that of Baltimore c Ohio Railroad Co. v. Allen, auditor of accounts of the State of Virginia, was a bill for
injunction, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States, to prevent the defendant from seizing the cars and other personal
property of the complainant in satisfaction of taxes alleged, to
be due, for the payment of which the railroad company had

McGAHEY v. VIRGIN1A.
Statement of the Case.

tendered tax-paying coupons. An injunction was granted by
the Circuit Court to prevent the seizure of the complainant's
property, and the decree was affirmed by this court upon the
same grounds which were taken in the case of Poindexterv.
Greenhow.
The fifth case, Carter v. Chreenhow, was an action brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States, and founded upon
section 1979 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, by
which every person who, under color of any statute, etc,, of any
State or Territory, subjects a citizen of the United States, or
other person within the jurisdiction thereof, to the deprivation
of any rights, privileges or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws of the United States, shall be liable to the party
injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other proper proceeding for redress. The plaintiff in said action set forth that
in May, 1883, he tendered certain tax-paying coupons of the
State, in payment of taxes due from him, to the defendant
Greenhow, treasurer of the city of Richmond, who refused to
receive the same in payment, and unlawfully entered upon
plaintiff's premises and seized and took certain property of
the plaintiff to sell the same in payment of said taxes; that
the plaintiff had a right under the Constitution of the United
States to pay his said taxes in the coupons referred to, and the
defendant refused to receive the same under the color of; and
by the command of, the act of assembly of the State of Virginia, approved January 26, 1882, which forbids collectors of
taxes due the State to receive in payment thereof, anything
except gold, silver, etc.; and that he levied on said property
under the command of the 18th section of another act of
assembly, approved April 1, 1879, and of other statutes enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Virginia, which
statutes he alleged to be repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States and void. - The amount of damages claimed in
the action was less than five hundred dollars, and therefore
it was not within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the
United States, unless it should be sustained by the section of
the Revised Statutes referred to. Judgment was given for.
the defendant, and was affirmed by this court on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

that the case did not come within section 1979, because the
right claimed was not one of the rights referred to in that
section.
The sixth case, Pleasants v. Greenho'w, was a bill for injunction, filed in the Circuit Court of the United States, to restrain
the defendant Greenhow from levying on plaintiff's property
for taxes after coupons were tendered therefor. The amount
of taxes being less than five hundred dollars, relief was prayed
for on the same ground of deprivation of rights, which was
preferred as the cause of action in the case of Carter v. Greenhow., The bill was dismissed by the Circuit Court, and its
decree was affirmed by this court for the same reason which
prevailed in that case.
The seventh case was Marye, Auditor of the State of Virginia v. Parson.. Parsons, a citizen of New York, filed a bill
in equity in the Cirouit Court of the United States against
AMarye, Auditor of the Commonwealth of Virginia; Greenh6w, Treasurer of the city of Richmond; Hill, Treasurer of
the city of Norfolk; Dunnington, Treasurer of the city of
Lynchburg; AMunford, Conmissioner of Revenue of Richmond;
Price, Commissioner of Lynchburg; and Langley, Commissioner of Norfolk. He alleged that he was the owner of a
large amount of coupons cut from bonds of Virginia, issued
under the act of 1871, and receivable by that act in payment
for taxes, debts and demands due the State, a list of which
coupons was appeanded to the bill. He claimed that they constituted a contract with the State, and, after setting forth the
laws which had been passed by the State of Virginia for preventing or interfering with the use of such coupons in the
payment of taxes and other state dues, (which laws he alleged
to be unconstitutional and void,) he prayed that the defendants, as officers of the State, might be compelled specifically to
perform the contract of the State with regard to said coupons,
and to receive them in payment of, taxes and other dues, and
that a mandatory injunction for that purpose might be issued.
The defendant filed a demurrer, plea and answer to the bill,
and a perpetual injunction, as prayed for, was awarded by the
Circuit Court. The complainant did not allege that he owed

AMcGAHEY

v. VIRGINIA.

Statement of the C ase.

any taxes or other demands to the State of Virginia for which
he had'offered coupons in payment, but his ground of action
was that the coupons held by him were valueless, so long as
the officers of the State, in obedience to its laws, refused to
receive such coupons in payment of taxes, and hence he sought
the relief prayed for in his bill. This court reversed the decree
of the Circuit Court, holding that the injury complained of
was of an abstract nature, damnum, absque injuria,and that
the bill should have been dismissed on that ground; and that
none but taxpayers, or those who are indebted to the State
upon some other claim or demand,are in a position to complain of the refusal of the officers of the State to receive coupons in payment of such taxes and demands.
The remaining case was that of Moore v. Greenhow, being a
petition for a mandamus to compel the defendant to receive
coupons in payment of a license tax as a sample merchant, the
petitioner not having pursued. the course pointed out by the
act of January 14, 1882, for establishing the genuineness of
the coupons tendered by him. The petition was denied by
the Circuit Court of Richmond, and its decision was affirmed
in conformity with the conclusion arrived at in the case of
Antoni v. Greenlww, that the act of January 14, 1882, as
applicabl. to the remedy of mandamus, did not violate the
Constitution of the United States.
Several other coupon cases came before this court in October term, 1885, and were decided in February, 1886. They
were Barry v. Edinund.s, 116 U. S. 550; COajfin v. Taylor,
116 U. S.567; Royall v. Virginia,116 U. S. 572; and Sands.
v. Edmunds, 116 U. S.585. These cases do little more than
repeat the views of the court contained in the coupon cases
decided in the previous year, except perhaps in deciding in the
case of Royall v. Virginia,that the license tax of a practising.
lawyer was a tax within the meaning of the act of 1871, and
payable in coupons attached to bonds issued under that act.
In another case, Royall v. Virginia,121 U. S.102, it ap.peared that an information was filed against Royall for practising as a lawyer without first having obtained a revenue
license. He pleaded payment of the license fee, partly, in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

coupon cut from a bond issued under the act of 1871 and
partly in cash. The Commonwealth demurred to this plea,
and it was held that the demurrer admitted that the coupon
was genuine, and bore on its face the contract of the State to
receive it in payment of taxes, etc., and that this showed a
good tender, and brought the case within the ruling in Royall
v. irginia,116 U. S. 572.
In the session of the General Assembly of Virginia of 1886,
suveral additional acts were passed, all having for object the
imposition of further obstructions and impediments in the way
of using the tax-paying coapons. An enumeration of these
acts, with a general indication of their purport, is all that is
necessary to state. By the act of January 21, 1886, it was
declared that expert evidence shall not be received of the genuineness of any paper or instrument made by machinery, or in
any other manner than by the actual or personal handwriting
of the party to be charged, or his agent. By the act of January 26, 1886, it was declared that in the trial of any issue
involving the genuineness of a coupon purporting to have been
cut from any bond authorized by law to be issued by the
State, or by any city, county or corporation, the defendant
may demand the production of the bond, and thereupon it
shall be the duty of the plaintiff to produce such bond, with"
proof that the coupon was actually cut therefrom. On the
same day another act was passed declaring that any person
who shall solicit or induce any suit or action to be brought
against the State of Virginia, or any citizen thereof, by verbal
representations, or by writing or printing, shall be deemed
guilty of the offence of champerty, and subject to fine and
imprisonment. By the act of March 1, 1886, it was declared
that any person licensed to practise law in Virginia who shall
solicit or induce any suit or action to be brought against the
State, or any citizen thereof, by verbal representations, or by
writing or printing, shall be deemed guilty of barratry, and
if found guilty it is made the duty of the court to revoke his
license and disbar him forever from practising law in the
Commonwealth. By an act of March 4, 1886, it was declared
that all license fees required for the transaction of any business

-M('GA'HEY -v. VIRGINIA.

681

Statement of the Case.

in the State shall be paid in coin, legal-tender notes or national
bank bills; and if coupons shall be tendered in payment thereof,
they shall be received by the officer for identification by the
proceedings prescribed in the act of 1882 ; but no license shall
issue to the applicant, nor shall he have the right to conduct
business or pursue his profession until said coupons have been
verified in the manner prescribed by said act; and by another
act, passed February 27, 1886, it was declared that after the
1st day of July, 1888, no petition shall be filed or other proceeding instituted to try the question whether any paper purporting to be a coupon detached from any bond of the State
is genuine and legally receivable for taxes and other state dues,
except within one year from said 1st day of July, 1888, if such
coupon first became receivable prior to that time; and within
one year from the time the coupon becomes receivable if it
becomes receivable after that date. This law became incorporated in the code of 1887 as section 415. Finally as, according to the decisions of this court in 1885 and 1886, the collecting
officers were liable to action for proceeding against the property of the taxpayers who had tendered coupons in payment
of their taxes, on the 12th of May, 1887, an act was passed
authorizing suits to be brought against such taxpayers for
taxes due from them, which suits were to be in the name of
the Commonwealth, and to be commenced by a notice served
on the party liable for the tax, or on the agent of such party
who may have tendered the coupons. If the defendant r6lies
upon the tender bf coupons as payment he shall plead the
same specifically in writing, and file the coupons tendered
with the clerk, and the burden of proving the tender and genuineness of the coupons shall be- on the. defendant. If established, the judgment shall be for the defendant on the plea of
tender. If the defendant fail in his defence, there shall be
judgment for the Commonwealth for the taxes due and interest
and costs, and execution shall issue thereon as in other cases;
and if judgment be against the defendant, a fee of ten dollars
is allowed to the attorney for the Commonwealth as part of the
costs in the case; but the Commonwealth is not to be liable
for any fees or costs. .The act is set forth in full in the case
In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 451.

,682

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Since the passage of this act the cases Inm re Ayers, .In 'e
Scott and In -re -HeCabe, 123 U. S. 443, have come before this
court for consideration. They were decided in December,
1887. These cases came before us on applications for habeas
corpus, directed to the marshal of thb United States for the
Eastern District of Virginia, who held the applicants, one of
them the attorney general of Virginia, another the auditor of
-the State, and the third the Commonwealth's attorney for Loudoun County, who had been committed for contempt by the
Circuit Court of the United States for disobedience to a restraining order. The case. in' which said order was made was
this: James P. Cooper and others, subjects of Great Britain,
filed their bill of complaint in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district aforesaid against. Marye, auditor of the
State of Virginia, Ayers, attorney general thereof, and the treasurers of counties, cities and towns in the State, and the Commonwealth's attorneys of counties, cities and towns therein;
in which bill it was alleged, amongst other things, that the
complainants, on the faith of the decisions of this court, that
the State of Virginia could not impair the value of the coupons
issued under the acts of 1871 and 1879 as a tender for taxes,
had bought a large quantity of said coupons in open market in
London and elsewhere,.ainountino to more than one hundred
thousand dollars, for the purpose of selling said coupons to .the
taxpayers of Virginia, believing that they would be able to
sell -them at considerable advance. The bill then set forth
the act of assembly of May 12, 1887, authorizing and requiring suits to be brought in the name of the Commonwealth
against taxpayers who should have tendered coupons in payment 'of their taxes. It further alleged that this apt is-repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, for the reason
that, taken in connection with the act of January 26, 1882, it
first commands the State's officers to refuse to receive thos"
coupons, and then commands them to bring Suits against those
who have tendered them, as well as .against those who have
tendered spurious coupons; that it imposes upon the defendants heavy costs and fees, etc. It further set out the provisions of various other acts before referred to, tending to

AloGAIIEY v. VIRGINIA.
Statement of the Case.

embarrass the holders of coupons in the use of the same, and
in the proceedings for establishing their genuineness. The
bill prayed that the defendants might be .restrained and enjoined from bringing or commencing any suit provided for by
the said act of May 12, 1887, or from doing any other act to put
said statute into force and effect, and that until the hearing
of a motion for said injunction a restraining order might be
made to that effect. A restraining order was accordingly
made by the court in pursuance of the prayer of the bill, and
it was for disobedience to this order that the parties in the
cases of Ayers, Scott and McCabe were committed for contempt. This court, after a very full and careful examination
of the questions arising in the cases, decided that the suit
of Cooper and others against Marye, Ayers and others, in
which the said restraining order and. order of commitment
for contempt were made, was virtually and in effect a suit
against the State of Virginia, and, therefore, in violation of the
Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United States,
which declares that the judicial power of the United States,
shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or equity
commenced or prosecuted against one of the United States
by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects of any
foreign State; and the judgment of the court was that the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to entertain said suit, and
that its acts and proceedings were void; and the petitioners,
Ayers, Scott and McCabe were discharged. The cases in
which the questioh has been considered in this court as to
when a proceeding against the officers of a State may be considered as a proceeding against the State itself, or only as a.
proceeding against the officers for a violation of a clear duty
imposed upon them by law, were carefully reviewed and distinguished in the elaborate opinion of the court dblivered by
Mr. Justice Matthews, and may be referred to as throwing
much additional light upon that vexed and interesting question ; but it is particularly referred to here, in connection with
the other cases cited, for the purpose of showing the conditions,
circumstances and aspects in which the questions arising on these
tax-paying coupons have presented themselves to the court.

684

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

Without committing ourselves to all that has been said, or
even all that may have been adjudged, in the preceding cases
that have come before the court on the subject, we think it
clear that the following propositions have been established:
First, that the provisions of the act of 1871 constitute a contract between the State of Virginia and the lawful holders of
,the bonds and coupons issued under and in pursuance of said
statute;
'Second, that the various acts of the assembly of
Virginia
passed for the purpose of- restraining the use of said coupons
for the payment of taxes and other dues to the State, and imposing impediments and obstructions to that use, and to the
proceedings instituted for establishing their genuineness, do
in many respects materially impair the obligation of that contract, and cannot be held to be valid or binding in so far as
they have that effect;
Third, that no proceedings can be instituted by any holder
of said bonds or coupons against the Commonwealth of
Virginia, either directly by suit against the Commonwealth
by name, or indirectly against her executive officers to control them in the exercise of their official functions as agents
of the State;
Fourth, that any lawful holder of the tax-receivable coupons
of the State issued under the act of 1871 or the subsequent act
of 1879, who tenders such coupons in payment of taxes, debts,
dues and demands due from him to the State, and continues
to hold himself ready to tender the same in payment thereof,
is entitled to be free from molestation in person or goods on
account of such taxes, debts, dues or demands, and may vindicate such right, in all lawful modes of redress- by suit to
recover his property, by suit against the officer to recover
damages for taking it, by injunction to prevent such taking
where it would be attended with irremediable injury, or by a
defence to a suit brought against him for his taxes or the otbhr
claims standing against him. No conclusion short of this can
be legitimately drawn from the" series of decisions which we
have above reviewed, without wholly overruling that rendered
in the Cono Cases and disregarding many of the rulings

DicGAI}EY v. VIRGINIA.

6851.

Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey -V. Same.

in other cases, which we should be very reluctant to do. To
the extent here announced we feel bound to yield to the
authority of the prior decisions of this court, whatever may
have been the former views of any member of the court.
There may be exceptional cases of taxes, debts, dues and
demands due to the State which cannot be'brought within the
operation of the rights secured to the holders of the bonds
and coupons issued under the acts of 1871 and 1879. When
such cases occur they will 'have to be disposed of according
to their own circumstances and conditions.
It was earnestly contended in the dissenting opinion in the
Coupon Cases, that the defence of a tender of coupons set up
by a taxpajrer when prosecuted for the payment of his taxes,
was in the nature of a set-off and could not be enforced
against a State any more than a suit could be prosecuted
against it; in other words, that a set-off is in reality a crosssuit and as such subject to the prohibition of the Eleventh
Amendment. But the majority of the court held, and perhaps
with better reason, that where a set-off or counter-claim is
made by virtue of an agreement or contract between the
parties, it no longer has the character of a mere set-off, but
becomes attached to the primary claim as _pro tanto a defeasance thereof. At all events, such was the decision of the
court, and it is not our purpose to question the authority of
that decision so far as it may apply to the cases now before us.
It remains to apply the law as we conceive it to be to the
several cases now under consideration.
BRYAK r v. TVIRGIN21IA.
COOPER v. VIRGINVIA.
ofoG.AHEY v. VIIR GIPIA.
The head-note for these eases will be found on page 663, ante.

MR. JUSTioE -BRADLEY continued, stating the case made in
these three causes as follows:
With regard to three of these cases, Bryan v. The State of
Virgin~a, Cooper v Tie State (f Virginia, and MelGahey v.

OCTOBER TERAI, 1889.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: MeGahey v. Same.

The State of Virginia, we have very little hesitation or difficulty- in coming to a'conclusion. They are suits brought by
the Commonwealth of Virginia against the persons severally
โขnamedL under the act of -May 12, 1887, for the recovery of
taxes due from them respectively. The proceedings in the
last-named case mAy be described as a sample of them all.
The case was instituted in the Circuit Court of Alexandria,
Virginia, in the name of the Commonwealth, by-the following
notice:
"To John McGahey:
"Take notice that on the 23d day of March, 1888, in accordance with the statutes in such cases made and provided, I
shall move the Circuit Court of Alexandria City for a judgment against you in favor of the Commonwealth of Virginia
for the sum of $12.60, with interest on $6.40, part thereof,
from the 15th day of December, 1886, till paid, and on $6.20,
the residue, from December 15, 1887, till paid, that being the
sum due by you to the said Commonwealth of Virginia for
taxes, together with the penalty thereon, in payment of which
papers or instruments purporting to be coupons detached from
bonds of the State of Virginia -have been tendered and not
accepted as paym'ent, and which taxes have not been otherwise
paid due on certain real and personal property in the city of
Alexandria, the said taxes being the same assessed according
to law by the Commonwealth. of Virginia for the years 1886
and, 1887, upon the property aforesaid.
"1LEoNARD MIE&TRY.
"For ihe Commonw~alth of Virginia."
To this notice the defendant filed the following plea:
"For a plea in this behalf the defendant says that the
plaintiff Pught not to maintain its action, because he says
that heretofore, viz., on the 1st day of December, 1886, and
on the 1st day of December, 1887, when the taxes sued for
became respectively due and payable, and prior to the comโขmencement of this action in said city, he was willing and,

McGAHEY v. 'VIRGINIA.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

ready to pay and then and there tendered and offered to
pay to the plaintiff tax-receivable coupons, then due and
payable, cut from bonds'issued by the plaintiff under the act
of the General Assembly of Virginia, approved March 30th,
1871, entitled ' An act to provide fori the funding and payment
of the public debt,' together with lawful money of the United
States, as follows, viz.: For the said tax of $6.40, one (1)
coupon, No. 23, cut from bond No. 5684, due January 1, 1883,
for $3; one (1) coupon, No. 23, cut from bond No. 4213, due
January' 1, 1883, for $3; and forty cents (40c.) lawful money
of the United States.
"And for the said tax of $6.20, one (1) coupon, .No. 29, cuT
from bond No. 1048, due January 1, 1886, for $3; one (1)
coupon, No. 28, cut from bond No. 2899, for $3, due July' 1,
1885; and twenty cents (20,.) lawful money of the United
States; to receive which the plaintiff then and there refused'
"And the defendant further says that always from the
times when the said taxes became respectively due and payable,
hitherto he has been ready and willing to pay and is still here
ready and willing to pay to the plaintiR the said tax-receivable
coupons and lawful money, and he now brings into court here
said coupons and lawful money, ready to be paid to the plaintiff if it will accept the same; and this he is.ready to verify;
- whereupon he prays judgment, etc."
Upon the issue tlfus joined atrial by jury was bad and a
verdict given for the Commonwealth for $13.96, and judgment
entered thereon with costs. 'A bill of exceptions wasotaken at
the trial, whico shows that the defe;dant first nioved to quash
the notice of motion and dismiss the cause on the ground that
the act of May 12, 1887, entitled "An act to provide -for the
recoverk by motions. of taxes and certain debts due the
Commonwealth," etc., is repugnant to section 10, article 1 of
the Constitution of the United States; which motion was overruled, The defendant, then, teomaintain the issue on his part;
proved that when said taxes beame respectively due and liay,able he tendered in payment thereof to- the proper collecting
officer the coupons and lawful money described in and filed
with his plea, which coupons on their, face purported to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

been originally attached, to bonds issued by the State of Virginia under the act of March 30, 1871, being then respectively
due and payable, and having each upon its face the following
language: "Receivable at and after maturity in payment for
all taxes, debts and demands due the State," which said
coupons and money the said officer refused to receive. The
said coupons were then offered in evidence, and are in the form
following, printed wholly from an engraved plate: "Receivable at and after maturity for all taxes, debts and demands due
the State. The Commonwealth of "Virginia will pay the
bearer three dollars, interest due 1st January, 1883, on bond
No. 4213. Geor'qe Rye, Treasurer of the Commonwealth of
Virginia." The other coupons offered were of similar form_
in all respects. The defendant further proved that he .never
owned the bonds from which the coupons were cut, and knew
nothing whatever in respect to their ownership; that the
coupons when purchased by him were already detached from
the bonds; and that he bought them in open market as genuine coupons, and without any reason to doubt their genuineness. He further proved that prior to September 1, 1879, the
State had issued bonds of the kind and in the form authorized
by said act to the amount of many millions of dollars, the
coupons thereon being wholly printed from engraved plates
and not signed -manually. He furthec cffgred to prove the
denominations and numbers of the bonds issued under the act
of March 30, 1871, and the act of March 28, 1879. He offered
and read in evidence to the jury senate document XV, senate
journal 1881-82, which contained a report of H. H. Dixon,
second auditor of the Commonwealth of Virginia, directed to
the president of the senate, in answer to certain questions
which had been proposed to him by the senate for its information, in which report, amongst other things, the said second
auditor stated: "I have the honor to report that I have no
knowledge of any spurious or forged bonds or coupons issued
or purporting to have been issued under either of the said
acts. As to any bonds or coupons that may have been stolen
I have heard of none issued under the act of March 28, 1879;
nor have I any knowledge of any issued under the act of

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

March 30, 1871, except such information a's
may be contained
in the report made to the legislature March 30, 187-1, by the
joint committee to investigate the sinking fund, in which a
deficiency of $15,939.89 of bonds and of $1325.45 of interest
is stated." Another report of said auditor was offered inevidence by the defendant, in which he stated as follows: "I
have the honor to report that no counterfeit or forged obligations, .bonds, coupons; or certificates of the State of Virginia
have in any way come to my knowledge." The defendant
then offered to prove by the testimony of an expert witness
that the coupons issued were genuine coupons, but the court
refused to receive such testimony or to allow it to go to the
jury because of the act of the General Assembly approved January 21, 1886; to which ruling the defendant excepted on the
ground that said act was repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. The defendant then rested, and thereupon the
Commonwealth demanded of the defendant the production of
the bond from which the coupons tendered purported to have
been cut, with proof that said coupons were actually cut therefrom. The defendant moved the court to overrule and disallow such demand, on the ground that the act of assembly
approved January 26, 1886, under which the demand was
made, was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States
and void. But the court overruled said motion and sustained
the demand, to which', the defendant excepted. The evidence
being closed, the defendant prayed the court to instruct the
jury that the production of the bonds from which the coupons
in issue were cut, together with proof, that the coupons were
cut therefrom was not necessary to establish the genuineness
of the coupons, and that the act requiring this to be done is
contrary.to the Constitution of the United States. But the
court refused this instruction, and instructed the jury that such
production of bonds and proof, when demanded, was necessary
to establish the genuineness of the coupons, to which ruling
the defendant excepted. The defendant further prayed the
court to instruct the jury that if the jury believe from the evidence that the State of Virginia issued her bonds with taxreceivable interest coupons thereto attached, which coupons
VOL. cxxxv-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v, Same.

were made payable to bearer, and were printed from engraved
plates and not signed manually by any officer of the State,
and if they further believe that the defendant purchased the
coupons filed -withhis plea of tender in open market, in good
faith, as genuine coupons of said State, then the burden is
upon the State to prove said coupons spurious, and that the act
of March 12, 1887, placing upon the defendant the burden of
proving them genuine is repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. This instruction was also refused by the court
and the defendant excepted. The judgment in the case was
remoted hy writ of error to the Supreme Court of Appeals of
the State'of Virginia, and was affirmed. The present writ of
error brings this judgment before us for consideration.
AXr. Dahiel H. Chamberlainand Mr.William L. Royall for
plaintiffs in error.
J.r.R. 4. Ayers, A.torney 4eneral of the State of Virginia,
and -Mr. J..Randolph TAcker for defendant in error.
The obligation to receive coupons extends only to genuine
coupons. The taxpayer who has tendered coupons is bound
to keep that tender good, and plead- the fact, and prove it
when put in issue. The question here is, has the State so
altered the remedy as to impair the obligation of the contract?
While it is true, generalIy, that all laws in force applicable
to the case at the time and place of making a contract form
part of it, Walker v. . Whitehead,16 Wall. 3.14, $17, it is equally
true that a law which only alters .the' remedy, hut leaves, one
substantially, equivalent, does not imp4i the obligation. -An.75"
toni v Greenhow, 107.U. S: 769, 74,
What remedy had the taxpayer before the passage of the
act uuder eยฑamination? The State could summarily levy upon
his proprty for the taxes when he was -driveu to an action of
trespass. This court had decided that any lavy by an officer
after tender of genuine -coupons, and not accepted was illegal
and made the officer a trespasser. The officer became a trespasser if he levied, and was liable to the State if he accepted

McGAREY v. VIRGINIA.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: M cGahey v. Same.

coupons which turned out to be spurious, against which she
had a clear right to protect herself. These treasurers in the
country were not experts, and she might well distrust their
judgment in receiving all which were tendered. -And when
tendered and refused the taxpayer retained the coupons and
brought trespass in the Circuit Court of the United States and
recovered back in damages the tax paid by the levy. The
State paying these judgments for her officers was without tax
paid either in money or coupons: and the right of the State
to these coupons so tendered and taken back had been denied
and none had ever been delivered by such taxpayers. It is
obvious that in this state of things the same coupon might
serve as a tender for many taxpayers in fraud of the rights
of the State to have her taxes paid in money or in these coupons. To avoid all this -to
compel the taxpayer to pay in
coupons what he refused to pay in money, to verify the genuineness of the coupons tendered, and to forbear the e parte
procedure by levy -the statute of May 12, 1887, was passed.
The constitutionality of this act was passed upon by. this
court in in 'e .Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, 494.
The next question arises under the act of January 21, 1886,
forbidding expert evidence to prove the genuineness of the
coupons tendered. The right to have one's controversies
determined by existing rules of evidencQ is not a vested right.
These rules pertain to the remedies which the State provides
for its citizens; and generally, in legal contemplation, they
neither enter into and constitute a parA of atny contract nor
can be regarded as being of the e~sence of any right which a.
party may seek to enforce.
Like other rules affecting the remedy, they are subject at
all times to modification xnd control by the legislature.
These changes may lawfully be made applicable to existing
causes of action. The whole subjeqt, is under the control of
the legislature, which mjay prescribe such rules for the trial and
determination, as well of existing as. of -future rights, as in its
judgment will most completely subserve the ends of justice.
As to what -shall be evidence, and which party shall assume
the burden of proof in civil cases, the authority of the legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

lature is practically unrestricted so long as its regulations are
impartial and uniform.
Whilst this is true, it is conceded that the legislature has no
power to establish ruls, which, under the pretence of regulating the presentation of evidence, go so far as altogether to preclude a party from exhibiting his rights. Cooley's Con.
Lim. 457, 458 ; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 249 ; Webb
v. D'en, 17 How. 576; Delaplaine v. Cook, 7 Wisconsin, 44;
Kendall v. _ffingston, 5 Mass. 524; limrmelnan v. Carpentier, 47 California, 42; Rich v. Flanders,39 . H. 304.
Tested by these principles, is the act under examination
unconstitutional? Whatever may be alleged to the contrary,
it clearly appears from the act that it prescribes a general
rule of evidence, applicable alike to all cases investigated in
the courts of the State, without reference as to who are the
parties or what the subject matter of the controversy is. In
applying it to the coupons of the State we must bear in mind
that the coupons attached to bonds are not signed manually,
but printed from engraved plates, capable of indefinitely multiplying the issue. The bonds are-signed by the proper officer
of the State, and are easily susceptible of proof as to their
genuineness; but the coupons are not signed, Every coupon
must, therefore, be the same, whether clipped from a bond
which has actually been signed and issued, or from one which
has not been signed or issued. It is manifest, therefore, that
no expert testimony should be admitted in the trial of an issue
as to the genuineness of a coupon, for the reason that it is
impossible for him to say, in any *given case, that the bond
from which the coupon was clipped was ever executed and
issued. The common rule, universally recognized, is that the
best evidence which the nature of the case is susceptible of
shall be adduced. The statute is only declaratory of this rule.
This statute was under examination in a previous case by the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia. Commonwealth v.
Weller & Sons, 82 Virginia, 623.
As to the objection against requiring the bond to be produced they are signed manually by the second auditor and
treasurer of the State, and are easily susceptible of proof.

McGA11EY v. VIRGINIABryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

When produced, the certainty of the issue of the coupon is
established, and by comparison of the coupons remaining upon
the bond, an easy mode of identification is secured which is in
strict compliance with the rules of the common law as interpreted by this court.
It is argued strenuously that the State, in issuing the bonds,.
contracted with the creditor that the taxpayer should not be
required to produce the bond, and that the coupon might be
proven by any other evidence which was available. When
the funding act was passed, the rules of the common law were
in force in Virginia, and one of its fundamental rules, as before stated, is, that the best evidence must be adduced. It is
idle to say what the creditor supposed the State would do.
The contract was made with reference to what she might
lawfully do; and the fact that they did not consider the consequences which would result from exercise of the power
reserved to require the production of the bond as the best
evidence of its genuineness and the consequent .genuineness of
the coupon clipped from it, does not affect the lawful -exercise
of that power.
Aln. JusTICE BRAn.rn-,

continuing, delivered the opinion of

the court in these cases.
The question is presented to us whether the acts of assembly
of the State of Virginia which required the production of the
bond in order to establish the genuineness of the coupons
and prohibiting expert testimony to prove the said coupons,
are or are not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States. On this subject we think there can be little doubt.
It is well settled by the adjudications of this court, that the
obligation of. a contract is impaired, in the sense of the Constitution, by any act which prevents its enforcement, or which
materially abridges the remedy for enforcing it, which existed
at the time it was contracted, and does not supply an alternative remedy equally adequate and efficacious. Bronson v.
inzie, 1 How. 311; WfoDdruf v. Trapnall, 10 How. 190;
Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; Walker v. Whitehead,16 Wall..

OCTOBER TERMI, 1889.
Bryan v. Virginia: Cooper v. Same: McGahey v. Same.

314; 3n fJofman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Tennessee v. Snee,
96 U. S. 69; .Memphis v. United States, 97 U. S. 293; Alemphis v. Brown, 97 U. S. 300; lloward v. Bugbee, 24 How.
461.
W-e have no hesitation in saying that the duty imposed
upon the taxpayer of producing the bond from which the
coupohs tendered by him were cut, at the time of offering
the same in evidence in court, was an unreasonable condition,
in many cases impossible to be performed. If enforced it
would have the effect of rendering valueless all coupons which
have been separated from the bonds to which they were attached, and have been sold in the open market. It would
deprive them of their negotiable character. -It would make
them fixed appendages to the bond itself. It would be directly
contrary to the meaning and intent of the act of 1871 and the
corresponding act of 1879. It would be so onerous and impracticable as not only to affect, but virtually destroy, the
value of the instruments in the hands" of the holder who had
purchased them. We think that the requirement was unconstitutional.
We also think that the prohibition of expert testimony in
establishing the genuineness of coupons was in like manner
unconstitutional.. In the case Pf coupons made by impressions
from metallic plates, (as these were,) no other mode of proving
their genuineness is practicable; and that mode of proof is
as satisfactory as the proof of handwriting by a witness acquainted with the writing of the party whose signature it
purports to be. One who is expert in the inspection and
examination 6f bank notes, engraved bonds and other instruments of that character, is able to detect almost at a glance
whether an instrument is genuine or spurious, provided he has an
,acquaintance with the class of instruments to which his ttention is directed. It*is the kind of evidence resorted to in proving the genuineness of bank notes; it is the kind of evidence
naturally resorted to to prove the genuineness of coupons and
other instruments of that character. To prohibit it is to take
from the holder of such instruments the only feasible means
he has in his power to establish their validity.

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Bryan v. Virginia:. Cooper v, Same: McGahey v. Same.

In addition to these objections to the proceedings, we question very much whether the act of May 12, 1887, which
authorizes and requires a suit to be brought against the taxpayer who tenders payment in coupons, as well as the other
acts which require their rejection, are not themselves laws
impairing the obligation of the contract. They make no dis-.
crimination between genuine and spurious coupons. A bank
which should refuse to receive its bills in payment of a note
due from one of its customers, but should sue him on his note,
and leave him to establish the genuineness of the bills by suit
against the bank, would not be regarded with much favor in
a business community. It is the duty of its cashier or receiving teller to judge of the genuineness of the bills offered, and
to refuse them as spurious on his peril, or rather, on the peril
of the bank itself. So, in regard to these coupons, instead of
relegating the taxpayer to a course of litigation, the officers of
the State charged with the duty of collecting the taxes should
themselves decide on the genuineness of the coupons offered.
Penalties for knowingly offering spurious coupons, or using
them in any way, for sale or otherwise, would probably be as
effective in preventing their circulation as like penalties are
in suppressing counterfeit bank bills, and other negotiable instraments.
In the case of Bryan v. The State of Virginia, the coupons
that were tendered for the payment of the tax sued for purported to have been cut from bonds issued under the act of
March 30, 1871, and the same obstacles to the proof of their
genuineness were interposed as in the case of McGahey, by
requiring the production of the bonds from which the coupons
were cut, and by excluding expert testimony. The same also
is true of the proceedings in the case of Cooper v. Te State of
Virginia.
We are of opinion, therefore, that
The judgments in these three cases must be reversed, and the
records severally ;emanded, for the pu:pose of such proeeedings as may be 4'equired in due course of law accord
ing to this opinion.

OCTOBZR TERM, 1889.
Ellett v. Virginia.

ELLETT v. VIRGINIA.
The head-note for this case will be found on pages 663, 664, ante.

Mr.

JUSTICE BPADLEY

continued, stating the case as follows:

The case of Ellett v. [The State of Firginia was a suit
brought to recover the amount of a judgment previously rendered against Ellett in the Circuit Court of Richmond for taxes
and costs, the amount of taxes being $39.52, and the costs being
$24.49. Execution having been issued upon this judgment, the
defendant Ellett tendered to the sheriff, in payment thereof,
coupons for the whole amount, lacking $1.49, which le tendered
in lawful money. The coupons purported to be cut from a bond
issued under the act of March 30, 1871, and were overdue, and
each bore upon its face a contract of the State of Virginia
that it should be received in payment of all taxes, debts and
demands due to her. The defendant pleaded this tender and
averred that the sheriff refused to receive the said coupons
and money, alleging that he was forbidden to do so by the act
of May 12, 1887, and that be, the defendant, has always been
ready and willing since said tender to deliver said coupons
and money to the sheriff in payment of said execution, and
was still ready and willing to do so, and brought the same
into court for that purpose. This plea was rejected by the
court. A verdict was given for the plaintiff and judgment
rendered thereon, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Appeals of the State of Virginia.
2Mr. Daniel H. 0.amerlainand Ilfl.
plaintiff in error.

William I. 1?oyalt for

?. A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State of Vir.X.
ginia and .fr. J.Randolph Tucker for defendant in error.
. These fees are not payable out of the treasury, and are not
recovered -for the Commonwealth, but for the officer of the
.eourt. The Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, in
the decision complained of here, said: "These fees were not for taxes,
debts and demands due the Commonwealth, but-were the prop-

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
EUett v. Virginia.

erty of the officers of the court upon which the State had and
could have no valid claim."
This court, when construing state statutes, will always adopt
the construction given by state courts, if possible. Elmendorf
v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Bll v. Morrison, 1 Pet. 351;
Sumner v. Hicks, 2 Black, 532; Richmond v. Smith, 15'
Wall. 429. The court uniformly adopts the decisions of the
state tribunals in the construction of their own statutes or on
questions arising out of the commoii law of the State. Gree4
v. Neal, 6 Pet. 291; Beauregard v. New Orleans, 18 How.
497. It will not be contended that a state statute which provided that there should be a separate judgment in favor of
the officers against the defendant for their fees in every case
where there was judgment in favor of the Commonwealth
under a statute which forbids payment of such fees out of the
treasury, ,would be unconstitutional. This is exactly the effect
of the decision of the state court which decides that these fees
are the property of the officers, -that this is the proper construction to place upon the act of May 12, 1887, in so far
as it refers to such fees.
MR. JtUSTIcx BRADLEY continued, delivering the opinion of

the court:
The point made in this case is, that the costs included in the
judgment on which the present suit was brought were not a
debt due to the State of Virginia in her own right, but were
due to the officers in whose favor they were taxed and whose
services they were to compensate. We think that this point
is untenable. The costs were recovered by the State of Virginia in the original action, to compensate her for the fees
which she had to pay to the officers for their services. The
demand of the officers for their costs was a demand Against
the State of Virginia, and not against the defendant ; and by
reason of this demand against her she was entitled to recover
the amount against the defendant; so that in no legal sense
can it be said that the costs included in the judgment belonged
to the officers dlid not to the State. They were recovered by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Cuthbert v. Virginia

her in form, and they ,belonged to her, when recovered, in substance. We areof opinion, therefore, that
Thi8 judgment must also be reversed, and the record remanded for the purpose of such proceedings as may be
requiredin due course of law, in accordance with this
opinion.

CUTlB ERT v. VIRGINIA.
The head-note in this case will be found-on page 664, ante.

the case as follows:
The next case to be considered is that of Cuthbert v. he
State of Virginia. This was a presentment found against
Cuthbert in the hustings court of the city of Petersburg,
Virginia, charging that he did, on the first day of November,
1888, and had continuously from day to day since that time,
in said city, unlawfully sold and offered to sell, and unlawfully
tendered and passed to divers persons, naming them, taxreceivable coupons from the bonds of the State of Virginia,
without having previously obtained a special license,* as required by law, auth -;.ing him, said COithbert, to sell and
offer to sell and to tender and pass such coupons, he, in doing
the same, acting as the agent and broker for another person
or persons to said jvrors unknown; contrary to the act of
assembly in that behalf. The presentment contained two
other counts, *hich were abandoned. The defendant tendered a special plea in writing, to which the Commonwealth
demurred, and the court sustained the demurrer. The defendant then pleaded nct guilty. The jury, under the rulings
of the court, found him guilty and assessect a fine of $500.
On the trial the case was submitted to the jury upon an
agreed statement of facts. The principal facts shown by%this
statement were, that on the first day of November, 1888, the
defendant- sold and offered to sell, and tendered and passed,
and offered to tender and pass for another, as charged in the
presentment, tax-receivable, coupons from bonds of the State
o.f Virginia, which were overdue and bore upon their face the
contract of said State that they should be received in payment
MR. JUSTIOC BRADLEy, continuing, stated

MoGAMEY v. -VIRGINIACuthbert v. Virginia.

of all taxes, debts and demands due said State from taxpayers
owing taxes to the said State, and that he did not have the
special license therefor required by the act of May 23, 1887,
and had not paid the license tax of $1000 provided by said
act for the privilege of selling the same, nor the state tax
of twenty per centum upon the face value of the same; also,
that the defendant Cuthbert was a member of a firm doing
business in Petersburg as insurance agents, representing
various foreign insurance companies, all of which had paid to
the State all license taxes assessed upon them; also, that the
defendant was not engaged in -any business upon which a
license tax is charged by the State, except the business of
selling tax-receivable coupons from bonds of the State, and
had not been so engaged. Upon this agreed statement of
facts, the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury that
the act under which the presentment was found is repugnant
to section 10 of article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States, and therefore void, and that they must acquit 'the
defendant. The court refused to give this instruction, but
instructed the jury that the said act is not repugnant to the
Constitution, and the defendant excepted. After the verdict
was rendered, the defendant moved the court to set it aside
upon the same grounds, which motion was overruled. The
cause was carried'to the Supreme Court of Appeals, and by
that court the judgment was affirmed and its decision is now
here for review. The question in this case is, whether the
act requiring a license tax for the sale of coupons was or
was not -in violation of that clause of the Constitution of the
United States which relates to impairing the obligation of
contracts.
lMr. Daniel E. Chamberlain and .Xr. William L. 1?oyall
for plaintiff in error.
Jr. R2. A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State of Virginia, and 21r. J. Randolph Tucker for defendant in error.
The only question is, whether the business of a broker in
these coupons is beyond the reach of a license tax by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Cuthbert v. Virginia.

State, because coupons are receivable for taxes. Does the
license tax impair the obligation of the contract to receive
coupons for taxes? If It does not, the judgment is right.
The power of taxation is a part of the legislative sovereignty of the State. It existed when the bonds and coupons
were issued, they having, in fact, been issued subject to this
power of taxation, which was not in any way released or surrendered by their issuance, and being the lex temporis, is part
and parcel of the bond and coupon contract. If this power of
taxation was not expressly reserved, it matters not. For it
need not be reserved ; it exists and remains always, unless
yielded up. See Cooley on Taxation, 54-, note 2.
Then, what though the tax imposed on the business of selling the coupons be a tax on the coupons themselves. The
State is entitled- to tax all persons, property and business,
within its jurisdiction. The business is done, or proposed to
be done here, within tlfe jurisdiction of the State; and that
business is a legitimate subject of taxation. How, then, can
it be said that the statute of 1883-4, which imposes a tax on
the doing of the business of selling the coupons, is beyond the
limits of the constitutional legislative powers of the State and
void?
MR. JUSTWEc

BRADLEY,

continuing, delivered the opinion of

the court in this case.
It is manifest from the terms of the act of 1871, as well as
that of 1879, under which tax-receivable coupons were authorized to be and were issued, that said coupons were intended
to circulate from hand to hand, being expressly-made payable
to bearer, and being made receivable for taxes, debts, dues and
demands due to the State. Any undue restraint upon the free
negotiability of these instruments, therefore, would be a violation of the clear understanding and agreement of the parties.
That the license required by the 65th section of the tax act of
March 15, 1884, as amended by the act of May 23, 1887, was
a very material interference with guch negotiability, is most
manifest. If sustained as a valid act of legislation, and carried

MaGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
In Re Brown.

into effect, it would prevent the negotiation of such coupons
by any holder thereof. The enormous license fee of one thousand dollars in towns of more than ten thousand inhabitants
and of five hundred dollars in other counties and towns, with
the exception of twenty p~r cent of the face value on every
coupon sold, was absolutely prohibitory in its effect. A
material quality of the coupons - their negotiability - was
thereby destroyed. The point cannot be made any clearer by
argument than it appears by the mere statement of it. This
follows whether the law is construed as applicable to the sale
by a coupon-holder of his own coupons, or to the sale or
passing by any person of coupons for another. An owner of
coupons residing in New York or London, under the operation
of the law, if the coupons were not paid by the State when
they became due, would be obliged to go in person to Virginia
in order to dispose of them to those who might be able and
willing to use them in the payment of taxes.
The judgment in this case must also be reversed, and the
record reemandedfor the purpose of such proceedings to be
had as law and justice may require in accordance with
this opinion.
I"V BE BRO WN.
The head-note to this case will be found on page 664, ante.

YR. JusTIcE BRADLEY, continuing, stated the

case as follows:

The next case to be considered is that of Ex parte Brown,
which was an application of the petitioner, Brown, to th
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Virginia, to be discharged from imprisonment in the custody
of R. A. Carter, the sergeant of said city and ex ofjlcio jailer
thereof. The petition sets forth that the petitioner was sentenced by the hustings court of the city of Richmond to pay a
fine of $25.00 and costs, amounting to $26.70, and to remain
in the jail of the said city until the same should be paid, in the
custody of the said sergeant; that on the 3d of' July, 1889, he
tendered W. P. Lawton, clerk of the hustings court, in pay-

OCTOBER TERM, -1889."
In Re Brown.

ment of said fine, eighteen dollars in coupons and $8.70 in
lawful money of the United States; that each of said coupons
was cut from a bond issued by the State of Virginia under the
act of March 30, 1871, and was overdue, and bore upon its
face the contract of the State that it should be receivable in
payment of all taxes, etc.; that the clerk refused to receive
said coupons and money in payment of said fine and costs,
because certain acts of the General Assembly of Virginia forbade him so to receive them; that thereafter, on the same day,
he tendered the same coupons and current money to Carter,
sergeant as aforesaid, and demanded his release from custody,
that said sergeant also refused to receive said coupons and
money in payinent of said fine and- costs, and he refused
the same because the coupons so tendered by the petitioner
became due prior to the 1st day of. July, 1888, and because
section 415 of the Code of Virginia of 1887 prohibits the
receipt of any coupons of said State which became due prior
to July 1st, 1888, as those tendered did; that said section 415
is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States; and
that the petitioner is therefore detained in said jail and in
custody of said sergeant in violation of the said Constitution.
The petitioner therefore prayed a habeas eolpus to be directed
to the said Carter, sergeant as aforesaid, and that he be discharged from 6ustody. The writ being issued, Carter made
return thereto in substance as follows: He annexed to said
return a copy of the judgment and order of the hustings court
of IRichmond committing the petitioner to the jail of the city
until he should pay a certain fine imposed upon him, as stated
in the petition. He admitted that on the 3d of July, 1889,
the petitiofier tendered the coupons and money set out and
described in his petition, to the clerk, Lawton, who refused
to receive the same; and that on the 3d of July, 1889, the
petitioner tendered to him, Carter, $8.70 in current money of
the United States, and eighteen dollars in coupons purporting
to be detached from bonds of the State of Virginia; but he
denied that they were genuine coupons legally receivable.
fHe further stated in his return that, by section 415 of the
Code of Virginia of 1887, it is provided that no petition shall

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.

1703

In Re Brown.

be filed or other proceeding had to try whether any paper.
printed, written, engraved or lithographed, purporting to be
a coupon detached from .any bond of said State, is a genuine
coupon legally receivable for taxes, debts or demands of the
said State, where said coupon. became due prior to July 1,
1888, unless said petition was filed or proceeding had within
one year from July 1, 1888; and he charged the fact to be
that the coupon held by the petitioner became due prior
to July 1, 1888. The court below refused to discharge the
prisoner, holding that section 415 of the Code of 1887 is not
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The
petitioner thereupon appealed to this court, and the question
is as to the constitutionality of -the section referred to.
We have already set forth the provisions of this law in a
former part of this opinion, it being the act passed February
27, 1886, and afterwards incorporated into the Code of 1887,
as section 415. Under the operation of this act, after the 1st
day of July, 1889, of course, all coupons that were then more
than a year past due were absolutely precluded from being.
used in payment of dues to the State, as provided for in the
act of 1871. Considering the obstacles which had been interposed in the way of their use for that purpose, it is not difficult to imagine that a very large proportion of the coupons
attached to the bonds of 1871 had not been presented, or, if
presented, had not been received for taxes prior to the date
referred to.
.Mr. Daniel Hf. Chamberlain and Mr. William, L. Royall,
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. 1. A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State of Virgini ,,
and M . J. Randolph Tucker for defendant in error.
The real question involved and intended to be raised in th
record is the constitutionality of section 415 of the Code of
Virginia. The act which was incorporated into the Code,
forming the said section, was approved February 26th, 1886
more than three years before the tender in the present case.
The coupon holder was warned in advance that from and

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
In Re Brown.

after July 1, 1888, he would only have one year within which
to institute proceedings to have his coupons declared genuine
and -received for taxes or other debts or demands due the
Commonwealth. The statutes deprive the coupon holder of
no right which he enjoys under his contract. His coupon, if
genuine, is received in a proper proceeding to enforce its payment. The courts of the State are open for the prosecution
of his claim. If the State does not pay his interest coupons
at maturity, he may institute suit and recover judgment
against her so as to prevent the bar of the statute of limitation. Chapter 32 of the Code of Virginia continues in force
statutes which have been upon the books for more than fifty
years, under which any claimant may sue the State in the Circuit Court of the city of Richmond, and have the validity of
his claim adjudicated. This is in addition to the other modes
provided by which he may have the genuineness of his claim
established.
This court has often decided that statutes of limitation
affecting existing rights are not unconstitutional, if a reasonable time is given-for the commencement of an action before
the bar takes effect; and it is difficult to see why if the legislature may prescribe a limitation where none existed before,
it may not change one which has already been established.
The parties to a contract have no more a vested interest in a
particular limitation which has been fixed than they have in
an unrestricted right to sue. Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S.
628; Hawkins v: Barney, 5 Pet. 457; Bronson v. Einzie,
1 How. 311; Christmas v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290 ;. Jackson v.
Lamphire,3 Pet. 280; SoAn v. lFaterson,17 Wall. 596. There
has always. been a statute of limitation in favor of the Commonwealth in Virginia. See section 751, Code, edition 1887;
Idem, section 770; Idem, section 3432. The period within
which suits are required to be instituted or claims presented
has been shortened, but ample time is given by the statute
under examination, within which to prosecute the claim.
Cooley's Const. Lim. p. 365.
MP_ JusTicE BRADLEY, continuing, delivered the opinion of
the court.

XcGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
In Re Brown.

The passage of a new statute of limitations, giving a shorter
time for the bringing of actions than existed before, even as
applied to actions which had accrued, does not necessarily
affect the remedy to such an extent as to impair the obligation of the contract within the meaning of the Constitution,
provided a reasonable time is given for the bringing of such
actions. This subject has been considered in a number of
cases by this court, particularly in Terry v. Anderson, 95
U. S. 628, 632, and ffoshkonong v. Burton,104 *U.S. 668, 675,
where the prior cases are referred to. In Terry v. Anderson,
Chief Justice Waite, speaking for the court, said: "This court
has often decided that statutes of limitation affecting existing
rights are not unconstitutional, if a reasonable time is given
for the commencement of an action before the bar takes effect.
Hawkins v. Barney, 5 Pet. 457; Jackson. . ampldre, 3 Pet.
280; Sohn v. Waterson, 17 Wall. 596; Christmas v. Russell,
5 Wall. 290; Sturges v.Crowninshield,4 Wheat. 122. It is
difficult to see why, if the legislature may prescribe a limitation where none existed before, it may not change one which
has already been established. The parties to a contract 'have
no more a vested interest in a particular limitation which has
been fixed than they have in an unrestricted right to sue.
In all such cases the question is one of reasonableness,
and we have, therefore, only to consider whether the time
allowed in this statute is, under all the circumstances, reasonable. Of that the legislature is primarily the judge; and we
cannot overrule the decision of that department of the government unless a palpable error has been committed."
The court in that case held that the period of nine montJas
and seventeen days given to sue upon a cause of action which
had already been running nearly four years, was not uAconstitutional. The liability in question was that of a
stockholder under an act of incorporation for the ultimate
redemption of the bills of a bank which had become insolvent
by the disaster of the civil war. The legislature of Georgia,
on the 16th of March, 1869, passed a statute req-diring all
actions against stockholders in such cases to be brought by or
before the 1st of January, 1870.
VOL. Cxxv--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
In Re Brown.

In the case of Koshkonong v. Burton, the suit was brought
upon bonds of the town of Koshkonong issued January 1,
1857, with interest coupons attached. The coupons matured
at different dates from 1858 to 1877. The action was brought
on- the 12th of May, 1880, and the question was whether the
action as to the coupons maturing more than six years before
the commencement of the suit was barred by the statute of
limitations of Wisconsin. In -March, 1872, an act was passed
to limit the time for the commencement of actions against
towns, counties, cities and villages, on demands payable to
bearer. It provided that no action brought to recover money
on any bond, coupon, interest warrant, agreement or promise
in writing made by any town, county, city or village, or upon
any instalment of the principal or interest thereof, shall be
maintained unless the action be commenced within six years
from the time when such money has or shall become due, when
the same has been made payable to bearer or to some person
or bearer, or to the order of some person, or to some person
or his order; provided, that any such action may be brought
within one year. after this act shall take effect. This court,
speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, said: "It was undoubtedly
within the Constitutional power of the legislature to require,
as to existing causes of action, that suits for their enforcement
should be barred uiless brought within, a period less than that
prescribed at the time the contract was made or the liability
incurred from which the cause of action arose. The exertion
of this power is, of course, subject to the fundamental condition that a reasonable time, taking all the circumstances into
consideration, be given by the new law for the commencement
of an action before the bar takes effect. Whether the first
proviso in the act of 1872, as to some causes of action, especially in: i;ts application"to citizens of other States holding
negotiable municipal securities, is, or not, in violation of that
condition, is a question of too much practical importance and
delicay to justify us in considering it unless its determinatioh
be essential to the disposition of the case, in hand; and we
think it is .not." The case was decided without determining
the question referred to.

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
In Re Brown.

A question of the same nature frequently arises upon statutes which require the registry of conveyances and other instrunients within a limited period prescribed, and making them
void, either absolutely or in their operation as against third
persons, if not recorded within such time. Such laws, as
applied to conveyances and other instruments in existence at
the time of their passage, are, of course, retrospective in their
character, and may operate very oppressively if a reasonable
time be not given for the registry required. This subject was
discussed in the case of Vance v. Vance,, 108 U. S. 514, Mr.
Justice Miller delivering the opinion of the court, where the
prior cases were adverted to and commented upon. The same
rule applies in those cases as in reference to statutes of limitation, namely, that the time given for the act to be done must
be a reasonable time, otherwise it would be unconstitutional
and void.
It is evident from this statement of the question that no one
rule as to the length of time which will be deemed reasonable
can be laid down for the government of all cases alike. Different circumstances will often require a different rule. What
would be reasonable in one class of cases would be entirely
unreasonable in another.
It is necessary, therefore, to look at the nature and circumstances of the case before us, and of the class, of cases to
which it belongs. The primary obligation of the State with
regard to the coupons attached to the bonds issued under the
act of 1871 was to pay them when they became due; but if
they were not paid at maturity the alternative right was given
to the holder of them to use them in the payment of taxes,
debts, dues and demands due to the State. The very nature
of the case shows that such an application of the coupons
could not be made immediately or in any very short period of
time. If all the bonds were of the denomination of one :thousand dollars each, it would require twenty thousand of them
to make up the funded debt of twenty millions of dollars.
These twenty thousand bonds would be likely to be scattered
and dispersed through many States and countries, and it would
be impracticable for the holders of them to use the coupons

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
'In Re Brown.

.which the State should fail to pay in cash, in the alternative
manner stipulated for in the contract, unless they had a reasonable time to dispose of them to taxpayers. No limitation
of time was fixed by the act within which the coupons should
be presented or tendered in payment of taxes or other demands. The presumption would naturally be that they could
be used within an indefinite period, like bank bills. Under
this condition of things, a statute of limitations giving to the
holders thereof but a single year for the presentation in payment of axes of the coupons then in their possession, perhaps
never severed from the bonds to which they were attached,
and comprising all the coupons which had been originally
attached thereto, seems, even at first blush, to be unreasonable
and oppressive. Probably'not one-tenth, if even so large a
proportion, of the bondholders were taxpayers of the State
of Virginia. The only way in which they could, within the
year prescribed, utilize their coupons, the accumulation perhaps
of years, would be to sell aad dispose of them to the taxpayers.
Ilow this could be done, especially in.view of the onerous laws
which were passed with regard to the sale of coupons in the
State, it is difficult to see. Under all the circumstances of the
case, and the peculiar condition of the securities in question,
we are compelled to say that in our opinion the law is an unreasonable law and that it does materially impair the obligation of the contract.
We have spoken of the act as limiting, indifferently, the
time of tendering the coupons, and the time of commencing
proceedings to ascertain their genuineness. Its terms relate
only to the latter; and as this proceeding cannot be instituted
until the coupons have been tendered, the effect is, to make
a tender necessary before the expiration of one year, which
can often be done only within a few days, or even hours; since
the taxes may become due in that short period, and not become due again until a year afterwards. This puts the unconstitutionality of the act beyond question.
Without further discussion of the subject, we conclude
that

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.

709

Hucless v. Childrey.

The judgment of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and the
same is reversed accordingly, and the cause remanded for
the purpose of such proceedings as may be reguired by
law andjustice in conformity with this opinion.

HUCLESS v. CHILDREY.
The head-note for this case -will be found on page 664, ante.

MR. JusriCE BRADLEY, continuing, stated the case as follows:
The next case which we shall consider is that of HJucles v.
Childrey, which was an action of trespass on the case, brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, by Hucless, a citizen of the State of Virginia,
residing in Richmond, against Childrey, the treasurer of Richmond, and, as such, collector of taxes and license taxes due to
the State, to recover damages for the refusal of the said Childrey to receive tax-receivable coupons in payment or part
payment of a license tax payable for a license to sell by retail
wine, spirits and other intoxicating liquors, whereby the plaintiff was prevented from pursuing the said business (which was
a lawful business), and sustained damage by reason thereof to
the extent of six thousand dollars. The declaration stated in
substance that the plaintiff desired and intended tP open and
conduct the business aforesaid at 405 West Leigh Street, in
said city of Richmond, for one year from the first of May,
1889; that he was a fit person, and intended to keep an
orderly house, and that the place was suitable, convenient and
appropriate for that purpose; that by the statute Thiw of Virginia a person desiring and intending to conduct such business
must apply to the commissioner of revenue for the city on
county for a license therefor, who shall ascertain the amounb
to be paid and give the applicant a certificate specifying
the same, and such person shall make a deposit therefor with
the treasurer or collecting officer of the city or county, of the
amount so ascertained, and shall take from him a receipt for
such deposit endorsed on the certificate, or otherwise, he shall
deposit with the treasurer the amount of tax assessed by law

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Hucless v. Childrey.

for the license tax on said business. Thereupon he shall make
application in writing for a license for such 'business to the
commissioner of the revenue for such city or county, acconpanied by said certificate, and the person so desiring to conduct said business is forbidden by said statutes to conduct the
same until he has appeared before the judge of the corporation
or county court, and has proved that he has made such deposit
and is a fit person to conduct such business, etc.; that the
license tax imposed by the laws of Virginia to be paid for the
business of selling, by retail, for one year, wine, ardent spirits,
malt liquors or any of them, in cities of more than one thousand inhabitants, is $125; that on the 3d of May, 1889, plaintiff applied to the commissioner of revenue of Richmond to
ascertain the amount to be paid by him as his license tax for
selling by retail as aforesaid, and the commissioner gave to him
a certificate specifying the same as $125; that on the same
day the plaintiff presented said certificate to Childrey, the
defendant, treasurer, 'as aforesaid, and tendered to him, in
payment of said license tax, $123 in coupons and two dollars
in lawful money, and demanded a receipt stating that he had
deposited with him $125 in said coupons and money; that
Childrey refused to receive said coupons and money, and refused to give plain tiff said receipt; that each of said coupons
was cut from a bond issued by the State of Virginia under the
act of March 30, 1871, and each bore upon its face the contract of the State that it would be received in payment of all
taxes, debts; dues and demands due to the ,State; that thereafter, on the 3d day of May, 1889, the plaintiff stated to said
Childrey that he desired and intended to conduct the business
aforesaid at 405 West Leigh Street, and then tendered to him
in payment of the license tax due to the State on said business
for one year $123 in coupons and $2.75 in lawful money, aid
demanded of him a certificate of such deppsit, but Childrey
refused to receive said coupons and money, and refused to give
such certificate, and refused to - ceive said coupons and money
in both cases, because sections 399, 536 and 538 of the Code of
Virginia of 1887 for.ade him to receive them; and the plaintiff averred that said sections are repugnant to section 10,

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
fHuless v. ChUdrey.

article 1 of the Constitution of the United States, which the
said Childrey well knew; that he, Childrey, obeyed the command of said sections and declined to follaw the mandate of
the Constitution; that by force of the statute law of Virginia
the plaintiff would have been liable to indictment and severe
penalties if he had proceeded to open and conduct his said
business before he had satisfied the judge of the corporation
or the hustings court of the city of Richmond that he was a
fit person to conduct said -business, that he would keep an,
orderly house and that the place was a suitable one; and that
the plaintiff could not apply to said court to enter on said
inquiries until he presented to said court a receipt from said
Ohildrey for said deposit endorsed on the certificate furnished
by the commissioner of the revenue, or the certificate of the
commissioner endorsed on the receipt of said Childrey.
To this declaration the defendant filed a demurrer, which,
was sustained by the Circuit Court and judgment rendered
for the defendant, which judgment is brought here for
review.
.Mr. William L..-Royall for plaintiff in error.
It is freely conceded that .the State may, in her discretion,
absolutely abolish the sale of spirituous liquors or prescribe on
what terms they shall be sold. That is part of the police
power intended for the protection of society. But the State
of Virginia does .not prohibit its sale. She .encourages its
sale. She evidently thinks the sale of liquor a practice beneficial to the health and morals of het citizens, and she
endeavors to extract from its sale all the revenue that the
business will bear.
Whilst she may do what she pleases looking to a regulation
of its sale, yet, when she undertakes to raise revenue from its
sale, that revenue is as much payable in her .coupons as any
other revenue as they are to be received in payment of "all
taxes, debts, demands and dues due the State."
Mr. 1. -A. :Ayers, Attorney General of the StAe of
Virginia i and tfr. J.Randolph Tucker for defendant in error.

'OCTOBER TERM, 1889
Hucless v. Childrey.

iMR. JUSTiCE BRADLEY, continuing,'delivered the opinion of
the court.
The law under which the treasurer justified his action in
refusing to receive the coupons tendered by the plaintiff is set
forth in the declaration with sufficient accuracy and fulness
for the disposal of the case, except that it should be added
that the license fee to be depositdd with the treasurer was
required to be in lawful money of the United States as a condition precedent to the granting of the license.
We are of opinion that the requirement that the license fee
shall be paid in lawful mon5y of the United States does not,
as contended, impair the obligation of the contract made by
the State with the holders of the coupons referred to. Licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquors are not only imposed
for the purpose of raising revenue, but also for the purpose of
regulating the traffic and consumption of these articles, and
hence the State- may impose such conditions for conducting
said traffic as it may deem most for the.public good. Instead
of a license fee of $125 it'imight have imposed a license fee of
$250, or any other amount, or it might have prohibited the
sale of intoxicating liquors altogether, as is admitted by the
counsel for the plaintiff in their brief. They concede that
the State might, in her discretion, absolutely abolish the sale
of spirituous liquors, or prescribe on what terms they shall
be sold. In this view, there does not seem to be any violation
of the obligation of the State in requiring the tax which is
imposed to be paid hr any manner whatever - in gold, in
silver, in bank notes or in diamonds. The manner of payment is part of the condition of the license intended as a
regulation of the traffic. It would be very different if the
business sought to be followed was one of the ordinary pursuits of life, in which all persons jre entitled to engage.
License taxes imposed upon such pursuits and professions are
imposed purely for the purpose, of revenue, and not for: the
purpose of regulating the traffic or the pursuit. For these
considerations we are clearly of opinion that
The judgment of the Circ.,qt Court was right, and it i8,
therefore, afirmed.

M GAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

VASHON v. GREENFOIF.
The head-note for this case will be found on page 664, ante.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY,

continuing, stated the case as follows:

The remaining case which we have to consider is that of
Vason v. Greenhow. This case arose upon the refusal of
Greenhow, treasurer of the city of Richmond, to receive from
Vashon tax-receivable coupons in payment, or part payment,
of taxes due from him, including a certain amount due for
school taxes for the maintenance of the public free schools of
the State. Upon this refusal Vashon filed a petition for a mandamus in the hustings court of the city of Richmond, stating
that he was a taxpayer of the said city, and was indebted to
the State for state taxes of 1884 to the amount of $35.63, and
tendered to Greenhow, fhe said treasurer, in. payment therefor,
certain coupons cut from the bonds of the State issued under
the act of March 30, 1871 - one of the denomination of thirty
-dollars and one of the denomination of three dollars, said coupons being past due, and being presented to the court with the
petition ; that he, at the same time, offered to pay the treasurer the whole of said tax in legal-tender notes and coin, and
demanded that the treasurer receive said coupons along with
said legal-tender notes and coin for the purpose of identification and verification in manner and form as required by the
act of January 14, 1882. The petition further alleged that by
virtue of the State's contract to receive said coupons in payment of said taxes, and by virtue of the act of assembly aforesaid, he was entitled, upon the payment of his said tax in
money, to have his said coupons received for identification
and verification, and pay his tax therewith; wherefore he
prayed a writ of mandamus commanding said Greenhow,
treasurer of said city, to receive the said money and also the
said coupons, and commanding him to forward said coupons
to the court for identification and verification according to
law. A rule to show cause having been granted, the treasurer
filed his answer to the petition, in which he stated the truth
to be that Vashon was indebted to the State for taxes for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

year 1884, as follows, to wit: for tax on property the sum of
$35.63, being $9.66 for the maintenance of public free schools,
as per exhibit attached to the answer. He further stated and
admitted that the petitioner offered to pay the 'said tax in
money at the same time that he demanded the respondent to
receive* the coupons mentioned in the petition for the purpose of identification and-verification. The answer then proceeds as follows:
"Your respondent avers that he was willing fo receive the
payment of said tax in money, but refused to receive and receipt.-for so much of the coupons as *ere offered in payment
of that portion of the tax set aside by law and dedicated to
the maintenance of the public free schools of the State.
"Your respondent assigns the following reasons for such
refusal:
"(1) Thie Constitution of Virginia provides, in section '7of
article VIII, what specific sums shall be set apart as a permanent and perpetdal literary fund, and includes in it such other
sums as the General Assembly may appropriate.
"(2) Section 8 of the same article provides that the General
Assembly shall apply the annual interest on the literary fund
and an annual tax upon the property of the State of not less
than one mill nor more than five mills on the dollar, for the
benefit of the public free schools.
"(3) In pursuance of this constitutional authority the General Assembly has provided, in acts of 1883-4, p. 561, that on
tracts of lands and lots a tax of ten cents on every hundred
dollars of the assessed value thereof shall be levied, which
shall be applied to the support of the public free schools of
the State.
"(4) Again, the last General Assembly, in acts of 1883-4, p.
603, have provided that all taxes assessed on property, real or
personal, and dedicated to the maintenance of the public free
schools of the State, shall be paid and collected only in lawful
money of the United States, and shall be paid into the treasury to the credit of the free school fund, and shall be used for
no other purpose whatsoever
".Your respondent avers that to have forwarded such of the

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

coupons as were offered in payment of the tax dedicated to
the public free schools would have been a violation of the
Constitution and the laws above referred to.
"For these reasons your respondent insists that he ought
not to have forwarded, for the purpose of identification and
verification, so much of the coupons as were tendered in payment of that portion of the tax dedicated to the public free
schools.
"1He therefore prays that the writ of mandamus may be
denied and the petition dismissed with costs."
To this answer the petitioner entered a demurrer, which
was sustained by the court and a peremptory mandamus was
awarded pursuant to the .prayer of the petition. The case
being carried to the Supreme Court -of Appeals of Virginia
the judgment was reversed, and this judgment of reversal is
now before us for review.
Mr. William .L. ]oyall for plaintiff in error.
The question to be determined is, which will this court follow - the series of decisions of the old court, holding the funding act to be consistent with the Constitution of the State, or
the decision of the new court, holding that act to be void, as
being in conflict with the Constitution of the State.
If the act is consistent with the Constitution of the State,
then the act of March 15, 1884, which forbids payment of part
of the tax in coupons, clearly impairs the obligation of the
State's contract that'they shall be received in payment of all
taxes due to the State. It is the settled and familiar law
of this .court that when the question is whether a state law
authorizing an issue of bonds is repugnant to the Constitution
of that State, and there have been conflicting decisions of the
highest court of that State, this court will follow the first
decision of that State's court on that question, instead of the
last. Gelpoke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175 -enosha v. Lamson,
9 Wall 477; -Lee County v. Rogers, 7 Wall. 181; Havemeyer
v. Ilowa County, 3 Wall. 294; .Mitchellv. Burlington, 4-Wall.
270; Olcott v. Suvervisor , 16 Wall. 678; Taylor v. Y'psila ti,
105 U. S. 60.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

It is also the settled and familiar law of this court that
when the question to be determined is whether a state statute, making a contract, is repugnant to the Constitution of
that State, this court will determine that question for itself,
without regard to what the highest court of that State may
have decided in regard to it. Jferson Brancl& Bank v. Skelly,
1 Black, 436; University v. People, 99 U. S. 30.9.
Now, it is hardly possible for this court, after the many
times it has held these coupons to be binding con-tracts, to hold
now that they are void. I suppose, as a matter of course, that
it will adopt the reasoning of Virginia's court in Antoni v.
Wright, 22 Grattan, 833; and Clarke v. Tyler, 30 Grattan,
134; and I shall therefore discuss the matter no further.
Mr. 1. A. Ayers, Attorney General of the State of Virginia,
and -Mr. J ]?andophp Tuceer for defendant in error.
MR.JusTIcE BRADLEY, continuing, delivered the opinion of

the court.
The Court of Appeals placed their judgment upon two distinct grounds. In the first place, they reviewed the former
judgments of that court which had sustained the act of March
30, 18-71, as a valid and constitutional enactment and binding
upon the State as a contract with the bond and coupon holders
under the same. The court were of opinion that these decisions were based upon a mistaken assumption that the State
had received a consideration for the issuing of the bonds
created by the act aforesaid. They argued and attempted to
show that the State had not received any consideration whatever, but that the issuing of the bonds under the act of 1871
was a mere gratuity on the part of the State, and was not
binding upon it so as to prevent the legislature from abrogating the conditions of that act.. We have already indicated
our views with regard to this position taken by the Supreme
Court of Appeals, and have referred to the decisions made by
this court sustaining the validity of the act of 1871, which
decisions of this court we regard as binding upon us.

McGA1EY v. VIRGINIA.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

The other ground on which the Court of Appeals placed its
decision was, that the act of 1871, as applied to the moneys
due and payable to the "literary fund," or fund for the maintenance of public free schools, was contrary to the constitution
of the State, adopted in 1869. The 7th and 8th sections of
the eighth article of that constitution declare as follows:
"SEC. 7. Thie General Assembly shall set apart, as a
permanent and perpetual literary fund the present literary
funds of the State, the proceeds of all public lands donated by
Congress for public school purposes, of all escheated property,
of all waste and unappropriated lands, of all property accruing to the State by forfeitures, and all fines collected for
offences committed against the State, and such other sums as
the General Assembly may appropriate.
"SEc. 8. The General Assembly shall apply the. annual interest on the literary fund, the capitation tax provided for
by this constitution for public free school purposes, and an
annual tax upon the property of the State of not less than one
mill nor more than five mills on the dollar, for the equal, benefit
of all the people of the State. . . ." 2 Constitution and
Charters, 1968.
The court, in its opinion, held that in" view of these constitutional provisions the legislature had no power to declare, or
contract, that the moneys due to the. literary fund might be
paid in coupons attached to the bonds authorized by the act
of 1871; &ndthat such a payment would be repugnant to the
very nature of the fund. It might well be added, that coupons thus paid into the fuid would be of no value whatever to
it, for as soon as paid' into the treasury they would become
valueless as if cancelled and destroyed, unless some provision
were made for their reissue, and the putting of them into
renewed circfilation. This would be opposed to the whole
tenor of the act, would be unjust to the coupon holders themselves, and would probably be contrary to the acts of Congress
in reference to the creation of paper currency. We, think that
the position of the Court of Appeals in this case is well taken,
that coupons could not be made receivable as a portion of the'
literary fund; and tthat, if they could not be received as a part

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

of the fund, they could not properly be made receivable for
the taxes laid for the purpose of .maintaining said fund. For
several years after the constitution was adopted, and after
the law of 1871 had been passed, the taxes for the benefit of
free schools were mingled in the assessment and collection of
taxes, and in the treasury when received, with the other taxes
and funds raised for the support of the state government. As
long as this state of things continued the collecting officers
could not object to receiving coupons in payment of -taxes,
because the share due to the school fund could easily be paid
from the treasury, to the credit of that fund, oift of the lawful
moneys rweived. But by the tax act of March 15, 1884, it was
provided that all taxes assessed on property, real or personal,
by that act, and dedicated by it to the maintenance of the
public free schools of the State, should be paid and collected
only in the lawful money of the United States, and should be
paid into the treasury to the credit of the free school fund, and
6hould be used for no other purpose whatsoever, and to this
end the auditor of public accounts should have the books of
the commissioner of the revenue prepared with reference to the
separate assessment and collection of said school tax, and the
several treasurers of the Commonwealth should have the tax
bills in their counties and corporations so made out as to
specify the amount of the tax due from each taxpayer to the
public free school fund, including the capitation taxes of whatever kind or nature, and should keep said capitation tax and
school tax separate and distinct from all other taxes or revenus so collected by him, and forward the same, thus separate
and distinct, to the auditor of public accounts, which should
be kept separate and distinct by him from all other taxes or
revenues until paid to the public free schools. Since the passage of this act, and in pursuance -thereof, the taxes and other
revenues raised for the purpose of maintaining public schools,
and belonging under the Constitution to the literary fund,
have been kept s'parate and distinct from the other taxes
raised for the general support of the state government. This
the practice when the case of Vahon v. Greenhow arose,
Wa in ,ourjudgment the law requiring the school tax to be

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Vashoir v. Greenhow.

paid in lawful money of the United States was a valid law,
notwithstanding the provisions of the act of 1871; and that
it was sustained by the sections of the Constitution referred
to, which antedate the law of 1871, and override any provisions
therein which are repugnant thereto.
In Pamp v. Drew, 10 How.218, a decision was made by
this court in a case not very different in principle from the
one now under consideration. It had been decided in Woodr.if v. Trapnal, 10 How.190, at about the same time, that
the law of Arkansas which chartered the Bank of the State of
Arkansas, (the whole capital of which belonged to the State,)
and provided that the bills and notes of said institution should
be received in all payments of debts due to the'State, was
valid and irrepealable, and that, although this provision was
subsequently in terms repealed, the notes of the bank which
were in circulatioif at the time of the repeal were not affected
by it; and that the undertaking- of the State to receive the
notes of the yank constituted a contract between the State
and the holders of these notes which the State was not at
liberty to break or impair, although notes issued by the bank
after the repeal were not within the contract and might be
refused. After this decision' the case of Paupv. Drew came
up, in which it was held that, although the notes of the bank
were receivable in payment of all debts due to the State in its
own right, and could not be refused, yet where the State sold
lands which were held by it in.trust for the benefit of a seminary,'and the terms of the sale were that the debtor should
pay in specie or its equivalent, such debtor was not at liberty
to tender the notes .of the bank in paynient. , The question
arose in this way: Congress in 1827 had passed an act "Concerning P seminary of learning in the Territory of Arkansas,"
by which two entire townships of land were directedto be set
aside and reserved from sale, out of the public. lands within
the said territory, for the use and support of a university
within the said territory'- In 1836, Congress passed another act
entitled "An act supplementary to the act entitled 'An act
for the admission .of the State of Arkansas into the Unio,
and to provide for the due execution of the laws of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Vashon -e. Greenhow.

States within the same, and for other purposes,"' by which
-last act the lands so reserved for the use and support of a
university were vested in the State of Arkansas. On the 28th
of December, 1840, the legislature of Arkansas passed an act
entitled "An act to authorize the governor to dispose of the
seminary lands;" and in 1842 the then governor of the State
sold to John W. Paup the right to enter and locate 640 acres
of said land, and received from him therefor bonds payable at
different dates in specie or its equivalent. In 184:7 the governor of the State brought a suit upon these bonds, and the
defendants brought into court the sum of $6050 in notes of
the Bank of the State of Arkansas, and pleaded a tender of
the same in discharge of the debt. The plaintiff demurred on
the ground that the proceeds of the bonds were part of a trust
fund committed to the State by Congress for special purposes,
over which the State had no power except to collect and disburse the same in pursuance of the objects of the grant, and
the State had no power to apply said funds to the payment of
ordinary liabilities, and was not bound to accept in payment
of such bonds any depreciated bills, bank paper, or issues, even
though she might be ultimately liable to redeem them. This
demurrer was sustained and judgment given that the fund was
a trust fund held by the State of Arkansas for the purposes
to which it was devoted, and therefore the State could not
properly contract to receive other than lawful money for property disposed of belonging to said fund.
We think that the principle of this case sustains the decision
of the Court of Appeals of Virginia, in the case now under
consideration, and the judgment of that court is
A4firmed.
It may be argued that the principle involved in the last case
is equally applicable to all taxes raised for the support of the
state government, inasmuch as the funds necessary for that purpose, as well as those raised for the purpose of maintaining public free schools, are required to be paid in cash. But there is
this difference, that the tax for school purposes is set apart for
that specific use, under the express requirement. of the consti-

McGAHEY v. VIRGINIA.
Vashon v. Greenhow.

tution, whilst the general tax for carrying on the government
is, or should be, adequate to meet not only the actual expenses
of the government itself, but also the outstanding debts and
obligations that may be due and payable during the fiscal
year, of which the coupons are themselves a part. If the
tender of tax-receiving coupons to any considerable amount is
apprehended, the rate of taxation should be raised so as to
produce a sufficient surplus over and above such coupons
to meet the expenses of the government. If the influx of
coupons should be so uncertain that no safe calculation could
be made on the subject, an arrangement could probably be
made with the coupon holders, for limiting the proportion of
tax which would be received in coupons. It is certainly to bewished that some arrangement may be adopted which will
be satisfactory to all the parties concerned, and*relieve the
courts as well as the Commonwealth of Virginia, whose name
and history recall so many interesting associations, from all
further exhibitions of a controversy that has become a vexation and a regret.
vOL. Cxv---46

