IN RE MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

IN RE MILLS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No.4. Original. Submitted April 3,1890. -Decided

April 28,1890.

The words "punishable by imprisonment at hard labor" in the act of March
1, 1889, 25 Stat. 783, c. 333, "to establish a United States court in the
Indian Territory, and for other -purposes," embrace offences which,
although not imperatively required by statute to be so punished, may, in
the discretion of the court, be punished by imprisonment in a penitentiary.
Where a statute of the United States prescribing a punishment'by imprisonment does not require that the accused shall be confined in a penitentiary,
a sentence of imprisonment cannot be executed by confinement in a penitentiary, unless the sentence is for a period longer than one year.
A j3udgment of a district court sentencing a prisoner who had pleaded
guilty to two indictments, for offences punishable by imnrisonment, but
not required to be in a penitentiary, to imprisonmeu in a penitentiary,
in one case for a year and in the other for six months, is in violation of
the statutes of the United States.

H:BEXS CORPUS. On the 4th of N6vember, 1889, -Mr. 'Fan
H. Manning lresented a petition for the writ. Leave was
granted, November 11th, and a rule to show cause issued, returnable on the first Monday of Dedember then next. Return
was made, and on the 5th of December leave was granted to
proceed inforrndauperis,and on the 3d of April the petition for the writ was filed and submitted.
.Mr. 'Fan H.*Manning and -Mr. Thomas Marcum for the

petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Maury opposing.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an original application to this court for a writ of
habeas corpus. Leave to file the petition having been given, a
rule was granted against the warden of the State Penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio, in which the petitioner was imprisoned, requiring, him to show cause why the writ should not be

264

OCTOBER .TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

issued. The return to that rule shows that the petitioner was
received by the respondent, August 1, 1889, from the marshal
of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas,
pursuant to a judgment of the District Court of, the United
States for that district, sentencing the prisoner to confinement
in that penitentiary.
It appears that the prisoner was charged by indictment in
the District Court of the United States for the Western District of Arkansas with the offence of having, on the 7th day of
July, 1889, "at the Creek Nation, in the Indian country,"
within that district, unlawfully engaged in and carried on the
business of a retail liquor dealer without having first paid the
special tax required bylaw. The indictment was based upon
section 3242 of the Revised Statutes, providing that "every
person who carries on the business of .a . . . retail liquor
dealer,
without having paid the special tax as required by law, shall, for every such offence, be fined not less
than one thousand dollars nor. more than five thousand dollars, and be imprisoned not less than six months nor more
than two years." Upon a plea of guilty, the court adjudged
that the accused be imprisoned in the Ohio State Penitentiary,
at Columbus, for the term and period of one year, and pay to
the United States a fine of one hundred dollars, and its costs
in the prosecution expended.
It also appears that the petitioner was charged by indictment in the same court with the offence of having on the 7th
of July, 1889, "at the Creek Nation, in the Indian country,"
unlawfully introduced into that country, in said district, spirituous liquors, to wit; one gallon of whiskey. That indictment
was based upon section 2139 of the Revised Statutes, providing: "No ardent spirits shall be introduced, under any
pretence, into the Indian country. Every person who sells,
exchanges, gives, barters or 'disposes of any spirituous liquor
or wine to any Indian. under the charge of any Indian superintendent or agent, or introduces or attempts to introduce any
spirituous liquor or wine into the Indian country, shall be
punishable by imprisonment for not more than two years, and
by a fine of not more than three hundred dollars." Rev. Stat.

IN RE MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

§ 2139, as amended by the act of Feb. 27, 1877, 19 Stat. 244,
c. 69. Upon a plea of guilty, it was adjudged that the accused
be imprisoned in the same penitentiary for the period of six
months, and pay to the government a fine of fifty dollars,
together with its costs; also, that this term of imprisonment
commence and date from the expiration of the term of one
year, for which he was sentenced in the other case.
The petition for the writ of habeas corpus proceeds upon the
ground that the court which passed the above sentences was
without jurisdiction of the offences charged, and that sole and
exclusive jurisdiction thereof was in the court established by
the act of Congress, passed March 1, -1889, entitled, "An act
t6 establish a United States court in the Indian Territory, and
for other purposes." 25 Stat. 783, c. 333. This question will
be first examined.
As the country lying west of.Missouri and Arkansas known
as the Indian Territory was within the Western District of
Arkansas when the above act of March 1, 1889, was passed,
and as the district courts have jurisdiction of all crimes and
offences cognizable under the authority of the United States,'
and committed within their respective districts, Rev. Stat.
§§ 533, 563, it cannot be disputed that the court below had
jurisdiction of the offences charged against the petitioner, unless its jurisdiction was taken away by the act establishing a
court in the Indian Territory. That act establishes "a United
States court" with jurisdiction .extending over the Indian Territory, bounded on -the north by Kansas, on the east by Missouri and Arkansas, on the south by Texas, and on the west by
Texas and the Territory of New Mexico. Its criminal jurisdiction is thus declared in the fifth section of the act: "That
the court hereby established shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over all offences against the laws of the United States
committed within the Indian Territory as in this act defined,
not punishable by death or by imprisonment at hard labor."
As the offences charged against the petitioner were offences
against the United States, and were 6ommitted in the Indian
Territory, the question as to the jurisdiction' of the court
established by this act depends upon the meaning that may

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

be given to the words "punishable

.

.

.

by imprisonment

at hard labor." 'There are offences against the United States
for which the statute, in terms, prescribes punishment by imprisonment at hard labor. There are others, the punishment
of which is "imprisonment" simply. But, in cases of the latter class, the sentence of imprisonment -if the imprisonment
be for a longer period than one year (§5541)-may be executed
in a state prison or penitentiary, the rules of which prescribe
hard labor. These statutory provisions were referred to'in
Ex pcarte Harstendick, 93 U. S. 396, 399, where Chief Justice
Waite, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "In cases
where the statute makes hard labor a part of the punishmenr,
it is imperative upon the court to include that in its sentence.
But where the statute requires imprisonment alone, the several
provisions which have just been referred to place it within the
power of the court, at its discretion, to order execution of its
sentence at a place where labor is exacted as part of the discipline and treatment of the institution or not, as it pleases.
Thus a wide range of punishment is given, and the courts are
left at liberty to graduate their sentences so as to meet the
"ever-varying circumstances of the cases which come before
them."
In view of this condition of the law at the time of the passage of the act creating a United States court in the Indian
Territory, there is fair ground for dispute as to the true interpretation of the words "punishable . . . by imprisonment
at hard labor." An offence which the statute imperatively
requires to be punished by imprisonment "at hard labor," and
one that must be punished by "imprisonment," but the sentence to which imprisonment the court may, in certain cases,
and in its discretion, require to be executed in a penitentiary
where hard labor is prescribed for convicts, are, each, "pun ishable" by imprisonment at hard labor. The former offence
certainly must be thus punished; and as the latter may, in the
discretion of the court, be so punished, it may, also, and not,
unreasonably, be held to be "punishable" by imprisonment at
ihard labor. - Shall the act of Congress be so interpreted as to
exclude from the jurisdiction of the court established in the

IN RE MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

Indian Territory, an offence which the statute imperatively
requires to be punished by imprisonment at hard labor, and
include within its jurisdiction offences for which the court, in
its discretion, may sentence the accused to imprisonment in a
penitentiary whose rules require hard labor upon the part of
its inmates?
It would seem that the same considerations of public policy
that induced Congress to exclude the former from the jurisdiction of the new court would demand the exclusion of the
latter. It must be remembeied, in this connection, that prior
to the passage of the act of larch 1, 1889, this court decided,
in respect to crimes against the United States that are punishable by "imprisonment," that being punishable.by imprisonment
in a state prison or penitentiary, they are infamous, within the
meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, whether
the accused is or is not put to hard labor, and, therefore, can
be proceeded against only by presentment or indictment of a
grand jury. In Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, 426, it was
said that, in determining whether a crime was infamous
within the meaning of the Constitution, the question is
whether it "is one for which the statutes authorize the court
to award an infamous punishment, not whether the-punish-.
ment ultimately awarded is an infamous one." And in
.Makin v. United ,tates, 117 U. S. 348, 352, the court said:
"We cannot doubt that at the present day imprisonment in a
state prison or penitentiary, with or without hard labor, is an
infamous punishment. It is not only so considered in the general opinion of the people, but it has been recognized as such
in the legislation of the States and Territories, as well as of
Congress." Now, it is significant that the act establishing a
United States court in the Indian Territory makes no provision for a grand jury, although it does provide for petit juries
in civil and criminal cases. A grand jury, by which presentments or indictments may be made for offences against the
United States, is a creature of statute. It cannot be empanelled by a court of the United States- by virtue simply ofits organization as a judicial tribunal. The provisions of
the Revised Statutes relating to the empanelling of grand

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

juries for the District and Circuit Courts ( Title 13, c. 15 ) do
not apply to the court established in the Indian Territory by
the act of March 1, 1889; for, although the latter is a court of
the United States, it is not a District or Circuit Court of the
United States: Reynolds v.' United States, 98 U. S. 145, 154;
Ex parte Farley,Exparte Wilson, 40 Fed. Rep. 66.
We think it apparent from the very face of the act of
March 1, 1889, that Congress did not intend to invest the
court created by it with power to organize a grand jury, or
with jurisdiction of offences that could not be proceeded
against except on the presentment or indictment of a grand
jury. The offences with which the petitioner Mills were
charged could not be proceeded against by information for
the reason that, being "punishable" by imprisonment in a
state prison or penitentiary, he could not be required to make
answer thereto except on the presentment or indictment of a
grand jury.
These considerations justify us in holding, as we do, that the
words "punishable . . . by imprisonment at hard labor," in
the act of March 1, 1889, embrace offences which, although not
imperatively required by statute to be so punished, may, in
the discretion of the court, be punished by imprisonment in a
penitentiary. This interpretation will best effectuate the
intention of Congress. A different interpretation would
impute to Congress a purpose to invest the court, established
by that act for the Indian Territory, with jurisdiction of
offences which it could not punish, for the want of authority
to empanel a grand jury to return presentments or indictments
against the offenders.
It results that the jurisdiction of the court below of the
offences charged against the petitioner was not affected by
the act of March 1, 1889, creating a United States court in the
Indian Territory.
If the application for the writ depended upon the question
)f the jurisdiction of the District Court of the United States
'or the Western District of Arkansas, of the offences with
7hich the petitioner was charged, it would be denied. But
ie petition, alleges that his detention in the penitentiary, under

IN RE MILLS.
Opinion of the Court.

the above sentences, is contrary to the laws of the United
States. It is our duty to inquire whether or not that point be
well taken. If it appears on the face of the papers, that apart
from any questibn as to whether the court below, or the
United States court established in the Indian Territory by the
-act of March 1, 1889, had exclusive original jurisdiction of the
offences with which the petitioner was charged, his detention
in a penitentiary is in violation of the laws of the United
States,'he is entitled to be discharged from ihe custody of the
warden of that institution. .Ex 2arte Royall, 117 U. S. 241,
248.
It is provided by section 5541 of the Revised Statutes that
"in every case where any person convicted of any offence
against the United States is sentenced to imprisonment for a
period longer than one year, the court by which the sentence
is passed may order the same to be executed in any state jail
or penitentiary within the district or state where such court is
held, the use of which jail or penitentiary is allowed by the
legislature of the State for that purpose;" by section 5546,
that "all persons vho have been, or who may hereafter be,
convicted of crime by any court of the United States whose punishment is imprisonment in a district or territory where, at the
time of convictioi, or at any time during the- term of imprisonment, there may be no penitentiary or jail suitable 'for the
confinement of convicts, or available therefoir, shall be confined during the term for which they may have beeir or may
be sentenced, or during the residue of said term, in some suitable jail or penitentiary in a convenient State or Territory, to
be designated by the Attorney General;" and br section 55FT,,
that "the Attorney General shall contract with the managers
or proper authorities having control of such prisoners, for the
imprisonment, subsistence, aRd proper employment of them,
and shall give the court having jurisdiction of such offences
notice of the jail or penitentiary where such prisoners will be
confined."
Assuming that the penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio, has.been
designated as one in which a judgment of the court below, sea-.
tencing to imprisonment a person found guilty of an offence

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

against the United States, may be exeduted, whenever the sentence is one that may be ordered to be executed in a state
prison or penitentiary, we are of opinion that the sentences,
under which the petitioner was committed 'to that institution,
are not of that class. A sentence simply of." imprisonment,"
in the case of a person convicted of an offence against the
United States - where the statute prescribing the punishment
does not require that the accused shall be confined in a penitentiary -cannot be executed by confinement in a penitentiary, except in cases in which the sentence is "for a period
longer than one year. In neither of the cases against the
accused was he sentenced to imprisonmdnt for a period longer
than one year. In one case, the imprisonment was "for
the term and period of one year;" in the other, "for the
term and period of six months." There is consequently, no
escape from the conclusion that the judgment of the court
sentencing the petitioner to imprisonment in a penitentiary, in
one case for a year and in the other.for six months, was in violation of the statutes of the United States. The court below was
without jurisdiction to pass any such sentences, and the orders
directing the sentences of imprisonment' to be executed in a
penitentiary are void. This is not a case of mere error, but
one in which the court below transcended its powers. Ecxparte
Lange, 18 Wall. 163, 176 ; Ex yarte Parks, 93 U. S. 18, 23;
Ex ParteVFirginia, 100 U. S. 339, 343 ; Exparte Rowland, 104
U. S.604, 612'; i-n re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 738; Hans iPielsen,
Petitioner,131 U. S.176, 182.
Such is the effect of section 554:1, which is, in part, and without substantial change, a reproduction of the third section of
the act of March 3, 1865, entitled "An act regulating proceedings in criminal cases, and for other purposes." 13 Stat. 500,
c. 86. That section provides: "That in every case where any
person convicted of any offence against the United States
shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a period longer than
one year, it shall be lawful for the court by which the sentence is passed to order the same to be executed in any state
prison or penitentiary within the' district or state where such
court is held, the use of which prison or- penitentiary is

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN.
Syllabus.

allowed by the legislature of such state for such purposes; afad
the expenses attendant upon the execution of such sentence
shall be paid by the United States." The words "state jail"
in section 5541, and "state prison" in the act of 1865 mean
the same thing.
For the reasons stated, we are of opinion that the detention
of the petitioner by the respondent, the Warden of the Penitentiary at Columbus, Ohio, is in violation of the laws of the
United States. The rule is, therefore, made absolute. The
petitioner is entitled to the writ of habeas corpus.
Writ granted.

UNITED STATES v. SANBORN .
SANBORN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Nos. 224, 225.

Argued March 21, 1890.-Decided Apill 28, 1890.

The payment made by the United States to Sanborn, which is the subject of
this action, was made in consequence of'a misrepresentation by the
defendant to the Secretary of the Treasury, which created a misapprehension, on his part, of the nature of the defendant's services; and the
amount so paid ought, in equity and good conscience, to be returned to
the United States.
When the United States makes a long delay in the assertion of its right
to recover back money which it is entitled to recover back, without
showing some reason or excuse for the delay, interest before the commencement of the action for such recovery is not recoverable; and this
is especially true when it does not appear that the defendant has earned
interest upon the money improperly received by him.
When the United States are successful in a suit where one of their clerks
or officers of the class described in Rev. Stat. § 850 is sent away from
his place of business to be a witnesifor the government, the, necessary
expenses of such witness, audited by or under the direction of the
court upon which he attends na a witness, takes the-place, iuthe bill of
costs, of the per diemi -and mileage which, but for that section, would
have been taxed and allowed in titeir favor.

