CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY C0.

641

Syllabus.

CHEROKEE NATION v. SOUTHERN KANSAS
RAILWAY COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 664. Argued March 12; 1890.-Decided May 19, 1890.

The act of Congress of July 4, 1884, 23 Stat. 73, c. 179, granting a right of
way through the Indian Territory to the Southern Kansas Railway Company, for a railroad, telegraph and telephone line, is a valid exercise of
the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the several States
and with the Indian tribes.
The Cherokee Nation filed in the court below a bill of complaint, seeking a
decree enjoining the Southern Kansas Railway Company from entering
upon the lands of that nation for the purpose of constructing its proposed railway, and, if that relief could not be granted, then that its bill
might be treated as an original complaint and petition in appeal as provided in ยง 3, c. 179, act of July 4, 1884, 23 Stat. 73: Held,
(1) That these two causes of action, one of an equitable and the other of
a legal nature, could not be joined in the same suit;
(2) That the court below erred in not treating the complaint as a petition of appeal which entitled the petitioners to have a trial de nero
of the question of damages for the lands and rights proposed to-be
taken.
The Cherokee Nation is not sovereign in the sense that the United States or a State is sovereign, but is now, as heretofore, a dependent political
coimunity, subject to the paramount authority of the United States.
The United States may exercise the right of eminent domain in respect to
lands in the Territories, as in any of the States, for purposes necessary
to the execution of the powers belonging to the General Government,
such an exercise being essential to their independent existence and perpetuity.
All lands held by private persons within the limits of the United States are
held subject to the authority of the General Government to take them
for such objects as are germane to the execution of the powers granted
to it, provided only that they are not taken without just compensation
being made to the owner.
In the execution of the power to regulate commerce Congress may employ,
as instrumentalities, corporations created by it or by the States.
A railroad is a public highway, established primarily for the convenience of
the people, and to subserve public ends, and is subject to governmental
control and regulation; and for these reasons the corporation owning
VOL.

cxxxv-41

OCTOBER TERI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.
it may, under legislative sanction, take private property for a right of
way, upon making just compensation to the owner.
The act granting a right of way to the Southern Kansas Railway Company
through the Indian Territory authorized the company to enter upon the
lands taken for right of way after it should have paid into court double
the amount of the award of the referees appointed by the President:
field, that this was a sufficient provision to secure just compensation;
that the Constitution does not require that compensation shall be made
in advance of the appropriation of lands for a right of way; that it is
sufficient if adequate provision be made to secure just compensation;
that the title does not pass from the owner till such compensation is
actually received; and that if the railway company fails to pay tile
amount ascertained it will thereafter be a trespasser, although before the
termination of the proceedings instituted to ixs the compensation, it may
have rightfully entered upon the lands for the purpose of constructing
its road.

IN

EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Jfr. J. F .AtcDonald and Mr. Joh Ck.Fay (with whom
was Air. R. J Bright on the brief) for appellant.
Air. George B. reck and Yr. A. B. Browne (with whom
was Mr. A. T. Britton on the brief) for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE IALAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of the
United St~tes for the Western District of Arkansas. The litigation between the parties arises out of an act of Congress,
approved July 4, 1884, entitled "An act to grant the right of
way through the Indian Territory to the Southern Kansas
Railway Company, and for other purposes." 23 Stat. 73.
By the first section of that act the above company was authorized to locate, construct, operate and maintain a railway,
telegraph and telephone line, through the Indian Territory,
beginning at a point on the northern line of the Territory,
where an extension of the Southern Kansas Railway from
Winfield in a southerly direction would strike that line, running, thence south in the direction of Dennison, Texas, on the
most practicable route, to a point at or near where the Washita
River empties into the Red River, with a branch constructed

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

643

Opinion of the' Court.

from a point at or near where the main line crosses the
northern line of the Territory, westwardly along or near that
line to a point at or near where Medicine Lodge Creek crosses
the northern line of the Territory, and from that point in
a southwesterly direction, crossing Beaver Creek at or near
Camp Supply, and reaching the west line of the Indian Territory at or near where Wolf Creek crosses the same, with the
right to construct, use and maintain such tracks, turnouts and
sidings as the company might deem it to their interest to construct along and upon the right of way and depot ground by
that act granted. The second section grants to the company a
right of way of a prescribed width through the Territory for its
main line and branch road, stations and telegraph and telephone lines, subject to the condition that no part of the lands
granted shall be used otherwise than for the company's railroad, telegraph and telephone lines, and that if any portion
ceases to be so used, it shall revert to the nation or tribe of
Indians from which it was taken.
The third section, upon which some of the principal questions in the case depend, is in these words:
"SEc. 3., That before said railway shall be constructed
through any lands held by individual occupants, according to the
laws, customs and usages of any of the Indian nations or tribes
through which it may be constructed, full compensation shall
be made to such .occupants for all property to be taken or
dan'age done by reason of the construction of such railway.
In case of failure to make amicable settlement with any occupant, such compensation shall be determined by the appraisement of three disinterested referees, to be appointed by the
President, who, before entering upon the duties of their appointment, shall take and subscribe, before competent authoriWy, an oath that they will faithfully and impartially discharge
the duties of their appointment, which oath, duly' certified,
shall be returned with their award. In case the referees cannot agree, then any two of them are authorized to make the
award. Either party being dissatisfied with the finding of
the referees shall have the right, within ninety days after the
making of the award and notice of the same, to appeal by

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

original petition to the courts, where the case shall be tried
de novo. When proceedings have been commenced in court,
the railway company shall pay double the amount of the
award into court to abide the judgment thereof, and then have
the right to enter upon the property sought to be condemned,
and proceed with the construction of the railroad. Each of
said referees shall receive for their services the sum of four
dollars per day for each day they are engaged in the trial of
any case submitted to them under this act, with mileage at
five cents per mile. Witnesses shall receive the usual fees
allowed by the courts of said nations, costs, including compensation of the referees, shall be made a part of the award, and
be paid by such railroad company."
The 5th, 6th and 8th sections are as follows:
"SEc. 5. That said railway company shall pay to the Secretary of the Interior, for the benefit of the particular nations
or tribes through whose lands said main line and branch may
be located, the sum of fifty dollars, in addition to compensation provided for in this act for property taken and damages
done by the construction of the railway for each mile of
railway that it may construct in said Territory, said payments
to be made in instalments of five hundred dollars as each ten
miles of road is graded. Said company shall also pay, so
long as said Territory is owned and occupied by the Indians,
to the Secretary of the Interior the sum of fifteen dollars per
annum for each mile of railway it shall construct in the said
Territory. The money paid to the Secretary of the Interior
under the provisions of this act shall be apportioned by him,
in accordance with the laws and treaties now in force among
the different nations and tribes, according to the number of
miles of railway that may be constructed by said railway
company through their lands: Provided, That Congress shall
have the right, so long as said lands are occupied and possessed by said nations and tribes, to impose such additional
taxes upon said railroad as it may deem just and proper for
their benefit : Provided further, That if the general counsel
[council] of either of the nations or tribes through whose
lands said railway may be located shall within four months

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

645

Opinion of the Court.

after the filing of maps of definite location as set forth in
section six of this act, dissent from the allowances provided
for in this section, and shall certify the same to the Secretary
of the Interior, then all compensation to be paid to such dissenting nation or tribe under the provisions of this act shall
be determined as provided in section three for the determination of the compensation to be paid to the individual occupant
of lands with the right of appeal to the courts upon the same
terms, conditions and requirements as there:a provided: Provided further, That the amount awarded or adjudged to be
paid by said railway company for said dissenting nation or
tribe shall be in lieu of the compensation that said nation or
iribe would be entitled to receive under the provisions of this
section: Nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit
Congress from imposing taxes upon said railway, nor any
Territory or State hereafter formed through which said railway shall have been established from exercising the like
power as to such part of said railway as may lie within its
limits. Said railway company shall have the right to survey
and locate its railway immediately after the passage of this
act.
"SEo. 6. That said company shall cause maps showing the
route of its located lines through said Territory to be filed in
the office of the Secretary of the Interior, and also to be filed
in the office of the principal chief of each of the nations or
tribes through whose lands said railway may be located; and
after the filing of said maps no claim for a subsequent settlement and improvement upon the right of way shown by said
maps shall be valid as against said company: Provided,That
when a map showing any portion of said railway company's
located line is filed as herein provided for, said company shall
commence .grading said located line within six months thereafter, or such location shall be void, and said location shall be
approved 'by the Secretary of the Interior in sections of
twenty-five miles before construction of any such section shall
be begun."
"See. 8. That the United States Circuit and District Courts
for the Northern District of Texas, the Western District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

Arkansas, and the District of Kansas, and such other courts as
may be authorized by Congress, shall have, without reference
to the amount in controversy, concurrent jurisdiction over all
controversies arising between said Southern Kansas Railway
Company and the nations and tribes through whose territory
said railway shall be constructed. Said courts shall have like
jurisdiction, without reference to the amount in controversy,
over all controversies arising between the inhabitants of said
nations or tribes and said railway company; and the civil jurisdiction of said courts is hereby extended within the limits of
said Indian Territory without distinction as to citizenship of
the parties, so far as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this act."
The Cherokee Nation having dissented from the allowance
provided for in the fifth section of- the above act, commissioners were appointed by the President, as provided in the
third section. They met at Topeka, Kansas, on the 26th of
August, 1886, and, having duly qualified according to law,
.proceeded to the Indian Territory in the discharge of their
duties. Their report to the-President, made September 25, 1886,
states that they inspected the located line of road as it traversed the territory of 'the Cherokee Nation, with its brafich,
and that upon an actual view of the lands proposed to be taken
and appropriated for right of way, station grounds, etc., under
the act of Congress, they found that said Nation was entitled
to receive as .adequate compensation for such lands and for
damages done by the construction of the railway, for thirtyfive and one-half miles of the main line, the sum of $93 for
each mile, aggregating for the whole distance $3301.50. They
also found and awarded as adeqiuate compensation and damages in respect to the lands to be taken and appropriated for
the branch line, one hundred and twelve and 5 miles in
length, the sum of $36 for each mile, aggregating for the
whole distance the sum of $4051.44. The commissioners ordered that the railway company, within ten days after receiving notice from the Secretary of the Interior that their report
was filed, should deposit with that officer the total amount of
the awards made by them, for such disposition under the law

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANqSAS RAILWAY CO.

647

Opinion of the Court.
and the order of the Secretary as might be just and proper.
This reporthaving been fied in the office of the Secretary of
the Interior, its contents were made known by that officer to
the principal chief of the Cherokee Nation in a communication
dated October 29, 1886.
The Cherokee INation, by the act of its National Council,
approved December 17, 1886, concurred in by its House, December 16, 1886, dissented from and rejected as unjust, inequitable and without authority of law, the award made by
the commissioners.
The third, fourth, fifth and eighth sections of that act are
as follows:
"See. 3. That the Cherokee Nation does not concede to the
United States the rightful power, through its constituted authorities, to authorize any private individual or corporation to
enter upon, appropriate and use any lands belonging to said
Nation without first obtaining the consent of the constituted
authorities of said Nation, and hereby protests against the action of said Southern Kansas Railway Company in entering
upon and appropriating the lands of the Cherokee Nation as
an arbitrary and unjust violation of the guaranteed rights of
said Nation.
* "SEQ. 4. That the principal chief be, and he is hereby, authorized and empowered to proceed in pursuance of the provisions
of the third and the eighth sections of said act of Congress,
and bring suit in the Circuit Court of the United States in and
for the Western District of Arkansas against said Southern
Kansas Railway Company, the object of said suit being to
vindicate the absolute title of the Cherokee Nation t6 all lands
within her borders, and to obtain redress from said company
for such damages, as may have been sustained by said Nation
by means of the location and construction of said railroad:
Provided, That nothing herein shall be construed as an acknowledgnent by the Cherokee Nation of the right of the
United States to appropriate the lands of the Cherokee Nation
for the benefit of private corporations Without its consent.
"S-c. 5. That the principal chief be, and he ishereby, further
authorized and empowered to employ suitable counsel for the

OCTOBER TEMPI, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

bringing and management of said suit on the part of the
Cherokee Nation."
"SEo. 8. That the principal chief be, and he is hereby,

authorized and required to certify the provisions of this act to
the Secretary of the Interior in pursuance of the provisions of
tle fifth section of act of Congress."
Subsequently, the Cherokee Nation, by its attorneys, sent
a. communication to the President of the United States, in
which that Nation, with its principal chief - resefving to that
Nation all rights and claims in and to the common property
thereof as absolute owner of the same, and expressly denying
the right and aiithority of the United States to grant to
persons or corporations any easement, right of way, or property right whatever in, to and upon their common property;
as specially set forth in their protest of December 12, 1884appealed to the Circuit Court of the United States of the Western District of Arkansas from the award and judgment of
the referees, and praybd that a transcript of all the proceedings relating to the award, together with their appeal, be certified to that court.
In consequence of this communication and appeal, the Secretary of the Interior, January 22, 1887, transmitted to that
couft 'all of said proceedings on file in his department, as far
as. they related to the Cherokee lands, proposed to be taken
by the railroad company.
The bill in the present case was filed in that court on the
26th day of January, 1887.
It alleges that the Cherokee Nation is a sovereign State,
recognized as such by the various treaties made between it and
the United States, beginning with that of Hopewell, November 22, 1785, and ending with that of Washington, July 10,
1866 ; and is entitled to exercise, and is exercising the powers,
jurisdiction and functions of a sovereign State within the
territory ceded -to it and defined under the treaty of Fort
Gibson, February 14, 1833.
It also alleges that by virtue of its inherent sovereignty, as
recognized by those treaties, the right of eminent domain,
with other rights of sovereignty in its country, remains exclu-

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

"649

Opinion of the Court.

sively vested in it; that in addition to the cessions of territory
by the above treaties, for which it gave a full and valuable
consideration, the United States, by letters patent, conveyed
said territory to it in fee simple; that all of such territory
remains under the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the plaintiff,
except certain tracts lying west of the 96th degree of west
longitude and north of the 37th degree of north latitude,
which have been conveyed back to the United States by the
Cherokee Nation under the terms of the treaty of 1866; that
the Southern Kansas IRailway Company, without right and
without consent or license from the plaintiff, entered its domain and territory and commenced the construction over it of
a railway; that in the construction of such railway that company had commenced cutting down the natural surface -of the
land, building embankments thereon, and appropriating the
stone, earth and lumber found on the line of the proposed
road; had graded about ten miles of its road, and threatened
and intended to carry on the same damage and destruction of
the plaintiff's property throughout the whole of the proposed
line of road, destroying the property and depriving the plain;
tiff, by reason of the construction of such road, of a large
revenue arising from the rental of its property for grazing
purposes under existing leases of the lands proposed to be occupied by the railway company, and causing thereby irreparable loss and damage to the plaintiff. Referring to the act of
Congress, the plaintiff avers that no jurisdiction or authority
remained in the United States to grant any right of way
through its territory, and that thd right of eminent domain
over that territory remained, under the above treaties and
patents, in the plaintiff. The bill then sets forth the facts
already stated in relation to the proceedings taken by the
commissioners appointed under the act of Congress, and
proceeds:
"That, even though the said referees had been authorized
to make the award referred to, the sum by them awarded is
entirely ir3ufficient and inadequate compensation for the said
right of way; that the same is reasonably worth the sum of
$500 per mile, and, your complainant, protesting against the

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

said award and insistingthat the United States have no power
to grant a right of way through the territory of your complainant without its consent, and protesting and insisting that
the said referees had no lawful authority to make an award
for the lands so intended to be taken from your complainant
or its domain, and that even on payment of the compensation
so awarded the said corporation could acquire no right to
build its road through the territory of your complainant without its consent, still insists that the compensation so proposed
to be awarded and paid is inadequate, insufficient .for the land
proposed to be taken, and prays that this complaint may be
taken and treated as an original complaint, and petition in
appeal from the action of the said referees, as provided by
section 3 of the act of July 4, 1884, aforesaid.
"Your complainant avers that, by reason of the premises
aforesaid, the referees aforesaid had no authority to condemn
any of the land or territory of your,complainant or to make
any award therefor, and that no right accrued to the said
Southern Kansas Railway Company to enter upon or build
said proposed railway through the territory of your complainant."
The prayer of the bill is that the said awards be vacated
and set aside; that the defendant be restrained and perpetually enjoined from locating or attempting to locate, construct, equip, operate, use, or maintain a railway, telegraph
or telephone line through the land, domain or territory of the
complainant; that pending this suit it be restrained as aforesaid; and that, in the event the court should decline to grant
the injunction prayed, the complainant be awarded full, just
and adequate compensation for the lands so proposed to be
taken and the rights, easements and franchises so proposed to
be granted to the defendant. The bill prays for such other
and further relief as the nature of the case might require.
The defendant appeared, and by its attorney offered to pay
into the registry of the court the sum of 814,705.98, being
double the. amount of the award of the referees appointed
to assess the damages for the right of way for the railroad
through the plaintiff's territory

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

651

Opinion of the Court.

A demurrer to the bill was sustained. The prayer for an
injunction was refused, a hearing on the question of damages
was denied because of the misjoinder of equitable and legal
causes of action, and the bill was dismissed for want of equity,
without prejudice, and with judgment against the plaintiff
for costs. 33 Fed. Rep. 900.
The plaintiff, as we have seen, seeks a decree setting aside
and vacating the award of damages made by the referees, and.
perpetually enjoining the railway c6mpany from locating,
operating and maintaining a railroad, telegraplt and telephone line thiough its territory, as provided for in the act
of July 4, 18S4. Relief of that character is unquestionably of
an equitable nature. But the plaintiff unites with this cause
of action a prayer that if an injunction be refused, it may
be awarded full, just and adequate compensation for the
lands proposed to be taken by the railway company, and for
the rights, easements and franchises assumed to be granted
to it by Congress. The latter is a legal, as distinguished from
an equitable, cause of action. " Whenever," this court said
in 'Fan Norden v. forton, 99 U. S. 378, 380, "a new right is
granted by statute, or a new remedy for violation of an old
right, or whenever such rights and remedies are dependent
on state statutes or acts of Congress, the jurisdiction of such
cases, as between, the law side and the equity side of the federal courts, must be determined by the essential character of
the case, and unless it comes within some of the recognized
heads of equitable jurisdiction it must be held to belong to
the other." We do not doubt that a proceeding for an assessment of damages for the taking of private property for public
use is one at law. It possesses none of the essential elements
of a suit in equity, within the meaning of the statutes defining
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. It was,
therefore, properly held below that these two causes of action
could not be united in the same suit in a court of the United
States. Hurt v. Hollingsworth, 100 U. S. 100; Buzard v.
Houston, 119 U. S. 347, 351.
But the court below ought not, for that reason, to have
dismissed the plaintiff out of court, without making some pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

vision, by appropriate orders, tor the protection of its rights
as against the railway company. Congress gave the Cherokee
Nation, if dissatisfied with the allowances provided for in the
above act, the right, within ninety days after the making of
an award and notice of the same, "to appeal by original petition to the courts," and have a trial of the case de novo.
It did not prescribe the form of the petition, nor indicate
what it should contain. Yet, a petition of some kind was
necessary in order to invest the court below with'authority to
take hold of the question of compensation to be made to the
Cherokee Nation, and finally determine it without reference
to the award of the commissioners. While, for the reasons
above stated, the proceeding instituted by the plaintiff could
not be regarded as technically a suit in equity, of which the
court might take cognizance under the general statutes defining its jurisdiction, we perceive no reason why, in view of
the broad terms of the act of Congress, and of the peculiar
relations which the plaintiff sustains to the government and
people of the United States - relations which forbid, if to be
avoided, the application of strict rules of interpretation - the
bill might not have been treated simply as an original petition
of appeal by the plaintiff for a trial of the case between it
and the railway company upon the issue as to damages. It
was none the less a petition for appeal because relief of an
equitable character was asked that could not be granted. The
petition need not have been regarded as one to which the
railway company must file a formal answer, but rather as
the basis for such orders as would bring both parties into
court for the determination of the question of damages. As
thd case is to be tried de novo, the court can properly make
an order requiring the railway company to take the initiative
by filing its written application or petition for an ascertainment of the compensation to be made for the property proposed to be taken or the damage that would be done by
reason of the construction of the railway. To that petition when fied, the Cherokee Nation can demur, answer or
plead, as they may be advised. Under issues thus made, or
under some other mode of procedure devised by the court,

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

653

Opinion of the Court.

and appropriate for a regular trial of the issues, the case can
be tried de -novo, and all the questions of law and fact that
either party chooses to raise be finally determined.
This mode of proceeding will result in a speedy determination of the matters really in dispute, and is conducive to the
ends of justice. And we are the better satisfied with such a
disposition of the controversy, because the equitable relief
sought by the plaintiff cannot be granted. We have had some
doubt as to whether, in the present attitude of the case, the
reasons for this conclusion ought to be now given. But as the
questions raised by the aemurrer were elaborately examined
by the court below, (33 Fed. Rep. 900,) and were fully discussed at the bar, and as the plaintiff ought not to be led to
suppose that a new bill in equity, based upon the alleged
invalidity of the act of July 4, 1884, would avail any good
purpose, we have concluded to state the grounds upon which
we hold that Congress, in the passage of that act, has not
violated any rights belonging to the plaintiff.
No allegations are made in the bill that would justify a
decree perpetually enjoining the railway company from proceeding under the act of Congress. The proposition that the
Cherokee Nation is sovereign in the sense that the United
States is sovbreign, or in the sense that the several States are
sovereign, and that that nation alone- can exercise the power
of eminent domain within its limits, finds no support in the
numerous treaties with the Cherokee 'Indians, or in the decisions of this court, or in the acts of Congress defining the
relations of that people with the United States. From the
beginning of the government to the present time, they have
been treated as "wards of the nation," "in a state of pupilage,"
"dependent political communities," holding such relations to
the general government that they and their 'country, as
declared by Chief Justice Marshall in Cherokee Hation. v.
Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 17, "are considered .by foreign nations-, as
well as by ourselves, as being sp completely under the sovereignty and dominion of the United States, that any attempt
to acquire their lands, or to form a political connection with
them, would be considered by all as an invasion of our terri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion.of the Court.

tory and an act of hostility."5 It is true, as declared in
Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Pet. 515, 557, 569, that the treaties
and laws of the United States contemplate the Indian Territory as completely separated from the States and the Cherokee
Nations as a distinct community, and (in the language of Mr.
Justice McLean in the same case, p. 583) that "in the executive,legislative and judicial branches of our government we
have admitted, by the most solemn sanction, the existence of
the Indians as a separate and distinct people, and as being
vested with rights which constitute them a state or separate
community." But that falls far short of saying that they are
a sovereign State, with no superior within the limits of its
territory. By the treaty of iNew Echota, 1835, the United
States covenanted and agreed that the lands ceded to the
Cherokee *Nation should at no future time, without their consent, .be included within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of
any State or Territory, and that the government would secure
to that nation "the right by their national councils to make
and carry into effect all such laws as they may deem necessary
for the government of the persons and property within their
own country, belonging to their people, or such persons as have
connected themselves with them;" and, by the treaties of
Washington, 1846 and 1866, the United States guaranteed to
the Cherokees the title and possession of their lands, and jurisdiction over their country. Revision of Indian Treaties, pp.
65, 79, 85. But neither these nor any previous treaties evinced
any intention, upon the part of the government, to discharge
them from their condition of pupilage (r dependency, and constitute them a separate, independent, sovereign people, with
no superior within its limits. This is made clear by the decisions of this court, rendered since the cases already cited.
In United States v. Rogers, 4 How. 567, 572, the court, referring to the locality in which a particular crime had been committed,' said: "It is true that it is occupied by the tribe of
Cherokee Indians. But it has been assigned to them by the
United States as a place of domicil for the tribe, and they hold
and occupy it with the assent of the United States, and under
their authority.

.

.

.

We think it too firmly and clearly

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

655

Opinion of the Court.

established to admit of dispute that the Indian tribes, residing
within the tbrritorial limits of the United States, are subject
to their authority." In United States v. Zagama, 118 U. S.
375, 379, the court, after observing that the Indians. were
within the geographical limits of the United States, said:
"The soil and the people within these limits are under the
political control of the government of the United States; or of
the States of the Union. There exist within the broad domain
of sovereignty but these two. . .
They were, and always
have been, regarded as having a semi-independent position
when they preserved their tribal relations; not as States, not
as nations, not as possessed of the full -attributesof sovereignty,
but as a separate people, with the power of regulating their
internal and.social relations, and thus far not brought under
the laws of the Union or of the State within whose limits they
resided. '.
..
The power of the general government over
these remnants of a race once powerful, now weak and diminished in numbers, is necessary to their protection, as well as to
the safety of those among, whom they dwell. It must exist in
that government, because it'has never existed anywhere else,
because the theatre of its exercise is within the geographical
limits of the United States, because it has never been denied,
and because it alone can enforce its laws on all the tribes."
The latest uiterance upon this general subject is in Choctaw
IYation v. United States, 119 U. S.1, 27, where the court, after
stating that the United States is a sovereign nation limited
only by its own Constitution, said: "On the other hand, the
Choctaw Nation falls within the description in the terms of
our Constitution, not of an independent State or sovereign
nationj but of an Indian tribe. As such, it stands in a peculiar relation to the United States. It was capable under the
terms of the Constitution of entering into treaty relations
with the government of the United States, although, from the
nature of the case, subject to the power and authority of the
laws of the United States when Congress should choose, as it
did determine in the act of March 3, 1871,-embodied in section
2079 of the Revised Statutes, to exert its legislative power."
In view of these authorities, the contention that the lands

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

through which the defendant was authorized by Congress to
construct its railway, are held by the Cherokees as a sovereign
nation, without dependence on any other, and that the right
of eminent domain within its territory can only be exercised
by it, and not by the United States, except with the consent
of the Cherokee Nation, cannot be sustained. The fact that
the Cherokee Nation holds these lands in fee simple under patents from the United States, is of no consequence in the present discussion; for the United States may exercise the right of
eminent domain, even within the limits of the several States,
*for purposes necessary to the execution of the powers granted
to the genbral government by the Constitution. Such an authority, as was said in Hohl v. United States, 91 U. S. 367, is
essential to the independent existence and perpetuity of the
United States, and is not dependent upon the consent of the
United States v. Fox, 94 U. S. 315, 320;" iJited
S.tates.
States v. Jones, 109 U. S. 513 ; United States v. Great Falls
Manufacturing Co., 112 U. S. 645; 'an Brocklin v. State of
'Tennessee, 117 U. S. 151, 154:. As was said by Mr. Justice
Bradley in Stockton v. Baltimore &e. .ailroad, 35 Fed. Rep.
9, 19: "The argument based upon the doctrine that the
States have the eminent domain or highest dominion in the
lands comprised within their limits, and that the United States
have no dominion in such lands, cannot avail to frustrate the
supremacy given by the Constitution to the government of the
.United States in all matters within the scope of its sovereignty.
This is not a matter of words, but of things. If it is necessary
that the United States government should have an eminent
domain still higher than that of the State, in order that it may
fully carry out the objects and purposes of the Constitution,
then it has it. Whatever may be the necessities or conclusions of theoretical law as to eminent domain or anything else,
it must be received as a postulate of the Constitution that the
government of the United States is invested with full and complete power to execute and carry out its purposes." It would
be very strange if the national government, in the execution
of its rightful authority, could- exercise the power of eminent
domain in the several States, and could not exercise the same

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS R.AILW.Y CO.

651

Opinion of the Court.

power in a Territory occupied by an Indian nation or tribe,
the members of which were wards of the United States, and
directly subject to its political control. The lands in the Cherokee territory, like the lands held by private owners everywhere within the geographical limits of the United States, are
held subject to the authority of the general government to
take them for such objects as are germane to the execution of
the powers granted to it; provided only, that they are not
taken without just compensation being made to the owner.
But it is said that the objects for which the act of 1884 was
passed are not such as admit of the exercise of the right of
eminent domain. This contention is without merit. Congress
has power to regulate commerce, not only with foreign nations and among the several States, but with the Indian tribes.
It is not necessary that an act of Congress should express, in
words, the purpose for which it was passed. The court will
determine for itself whether the means employed by Congress
have any relation to the powers granted by the Constitution.
The railroad which the defendant was authorized to construct
and maintain will have, if constructed and put into operation,
direct relation to commerce with the Indian tribes, as well as
with commerce among the States, especially with the States
immediately north and soqth of the Indian Territory. It is
true, that the company authorized to construct and maintain
it is a corporation created by the laws of a State, but it is
none the less a fit. instrumentality to accomplish the public
objects contemplated -bythe act of 1884. Other means might
have been employed; but those designated in that act, although
not indispensably necessary to accomplish the end in view, are
appropriate and conducive to that end jand, therefore, within
the power of Congress to adopt. The question is no longer an
open one, asto whether a. railroad is a public highway, established primarily for the convenience of the people, and to
sub&.rve public ends, and, therefore, subject to governmental
control and regulation. It is because it is a public highway,
and subjpct to such c6ntrol, that the corporation by which it
is constfucted, and by which it is to be maintained, may be permitted, under legislative sanction, to appropriate private propvoL cxxxv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Coutt.

erty for the purposes of a right of way, upon making just
compensation to -the owner, in the mode. prescribed by law.
It is well said by Mr. Cooley, in his Treatise on Constitutional
Limitations, section 537, that "while there are-unquestionably
some objections to compelling a citizen to surrender his property to a corporation, whose corporators, in receiving it, are
influenced by. motives of private gain and emolument, so that
to th4em the purpose.of the appropriation is altogether private,
yet conceding it to be settled that these facilities for travel
and commerce are a public necessity, if the legislature, reflecting the public sentiment, decide that this general benefit is
better promoted by their construction through individuals or
corporations than by the State itself,.it would clearly be press-ing a constitutional maxim to an absurd extreme if it were to
be held that the public necessity should only be provided for
in the way which is least consistent with the public interest."
But this precise question was determined upon full consideration in Californiav. Pacifc Railroad Company, 127 U. S. 1, 39,
whdre this court said: "The power to construct, or to authorize individuals or corporations to construct, national highways
and bridges from State to State, ip essential to the complete
control and regulation of interstate commerce. Without
authority in Congress to establish and maintain such highways and bridges, it would be without authority to regulate
one of the most important adjuncts of commerce.
Of course the authQrity of Congress over the Territories of
the United States and its power to grant franchises exercisable
therein are, and ever have been, undoubted. But the wider
power was very freely exercised, and much to the general
satisfaction, in the creation of the vast system of railroads
connecting the East with the Pacific, traversing States as
well as Territories, and employing the agency of State as
well as federal corporations." Upon this point nothing more
need be said.
It is further suggested that the act of Congress violates the
-Constitution in that it does not provide for compensation to
be made to the plaintiff before the defendant entered upon
these lands for the purpose of constructing its road over them.

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY 00.

659

Opinion of the Court.

This objection to the act cannot be sustained. The Constitu
tion declares that private property shall not be taken "for
public use without just compensation." It does not provide or
require that compensation shall be actually paid in advance of
the occupancy of the land to be taken. But the owner is entitled to reasonable, certain and adequate provision for obtaining compensation before his occupancy is disturbed. Whether
a particular provision be sufficient to secure the compensation
to which, under the Constitution, he is entitled, is sometimes
a question of difficulty. In the present case, the requirements
of the Constitution haye, in our judgment, been fully met.
The third section provides that before the railway shall be
constructed through any lands proposed to be taken, full
compensation shall be made to the owner for all property to
be taken or damage done by reason of the construction of the
road. In the event of an appeal from the finding of the
referees, the company is required to pay into court double the
amount of the award, to abide its judgment; and, that being
done, the company may enter upon the property sought to be
condemned, and proceed with the construction of its road.
We are of the opinion that this provision is sufficiently reasonable, certain and adeqaate to secure the just compensation to
which the owner is entitled.
The plaintiff asks, -vhat will be,its condition, as to compensation, if, upon the trial de novo of the question of damages,
the amount assessed in its favor should exceed the sum which
may be paid into court by the defendant? This question
would be more embarrassing than it is, if, by the terms of the
act of Congress, the title to the property appropriated passed
from the owner to the defendant, when the latter-having
made the required deposit in court-is authorized to enter
upon the land, pending the alpeal, and to proceed in the construction of its road. But, clearly, the title does not pass
until compensation is actually made to the owner. Within
the meaning of the Constitution, the property, although entered upon, pending the appeal, is not taken until the compensation isasceitained in some legal mode, and, being paid, the
title passes from the owner. Such was the decision in .Ennedi,

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Idiana~polis,103 U. S. 599, 604, where the court construed
a clause of the constitution of Indiana, declaring that no man's
property "shall be taken or applied to public use,
without a just compensation being made therefor" -substantially the provision found in the national Constitution. This
court there said that "on principle and authority the rule is,
under such a constitution as that of Indiana, that the right to
enter on and use the property is complete as soon as the property is actually appropriated under the authority of law for
a public use, but that the title does not pass from the owner
without his consent until just compensation has been made to
him." Iithe case now before us, the property in respect to
which the referees made the award will be conditionally appropriated for the public use when the defendant makes a deposit
in court of double the amount of such award, and it only remains to fix the just compensation to be made to the owner.
But the title has not .passed, and will not pass, until the plaintiff receives the compensation ultimately fixed by the trial de
n2wvo provided for in the statute. So that, if the result of that
trial should be a judgment in its favor in excess of the amount
paid into court, the defendant must pay off the judgment before
it can acquire the title to the property entered upon, and failing to pay it within a reasonable time after the compensation
is finally determined, it will become a trespasser, and liable to
be proceeded against as such. And, in such case, if the plaintiff shall sustain damages by reason of the use of its property
by the defendant pending the appeal, the latter will be liable
therefor. The apprehension, therefore, that the plaintiff may
-lose its property without receiving just compensation therefor,
is without foundation.
Some stress is laid upon the possibility that the defendant
may. become insolvent before -the proceedings below reach a
conclusion, and become unable to pay any damages in excess of
the amount it may pay into court. The possibility of such insolvency is not, in our opinion, a sufficient ground for holding
that the provision made in the act of Congress for securing
just compensation is inadequate.. Absolute certainty in such
matters is ijmpracticable, and, therefore, cannot reasonably be

CHEROKEE NATION v. KANSAS RAILWAY CO.

661

Opinion of the Court.

required. In determining the validity of the act of Congress,
the presumption must be indulged that a deposit in court of
double the amount awarded by three disinterested referees,
appointed by the President, will amply secure the payment of
any compensation that may be fixed, at the trial in the court
below. The record states that the defendant offered to pay
into court double the amount of the award made by the
referees. The offer to pay is not a compliance with the statute. The amount required to be deposited must be actually
paid into court before the company can rightfully enter upon
the lands sought to be condemned, or proceed with the construction of its road.
The decree is reversed, and the cause rernandedforfurther
proceedings in confoirnity with this oinion.

