TRVST CO. v. GRAkNT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

207
O

Syllabus. -

pending claim for increase .
subject to the approval
of the Commissioner of Pensions."
But enough has been said tQ show that the allegation is unfounded on which'the application for mandamus was based,
namely, the allegation that the Commissioner of Pdnsionq.
refused to obey the decision of the Secretary of the Interiof.
The judgment is, therefore,

Afflimed.,

CENTRAL TRUST COM:PANY v. GRANT LOCOMO-"
TIVE WORKS.

DAYTON, FORT WAYNE AND
ROAD

COMPANY

'.

VflICAGO .RAIL-

GRANT

LOCOMOTIVE

WORKS.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. GRANT.
DAYTON, FORT WAYNE AND CHICAGO RAILROAD COMPANY v. GRANT.
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY v. GRANT LOCOMO-'
TIVE WORKS.
CENTRAL TIAUST COMPANY. v. GRANT.
APPEALS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTIOT OF OHIO.
No,. 1277, 1278, 1279,1280, 1281, 1282. Submitted March 31, 1890. -Decided

April 21, 1890.

If the decdee of sale in a suit for foreclosing a railroad mortgage pr rides that the purchaser shall pay down a certain sum in cash when the
bid is 'nhade, and such further portions of the bid in cash as shall be
found necessary, in order to meet such other claims as the court -hall
adjudge to be prior in equity to the debt secured -bythe mortgage, the
purchaser Is bound by the decision of the court as to such other claims,
and has no appealable interest therein.
A decree in a suit for foreclosing a railroad mortgage, that the claim by an
intervening creditor of an interest in certain locomotives in the posses-

208

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

sion of the receiver and in use on the road, was just, and entitled to priority over the debt secured by the mortgage, is a final decree, upon a
matter distinct.from the general subject of the litigation; and it cannot
be vacated by the court of its own motion after the expiration of the
term at which it was granted.
Th6 action of a Circuit Court in refusing to allow an amendment to a petition previously filed in a cause, or to permit it to be filed as a bill of
review as of the date of the previous filing, is not subject to review
here.
A bill of review based upon errors apparent in the record must ordinarily
be brought within the time limited by. statute for taking an appeal from
the decree sought to be reviewed; and if it is based upon matter discovered after the expiration of that time, a neglect to file it promptly on the
discovery will be laches.

M ovNs TO DISMISS Ot AFFIFtM.

The court stated the case

as follows:
On August I and 2, 1883, upon a creditor's bill brought by
Granville D. Braman, a judgment creditor of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company, Edwin D. Dwight
was appointed receiver of all the property of the company in
Illinois, Indiana and Ohio, by orders made in the Circu'itCourts of the United States in districts of those States.
August 14, 1883, the Central Trust Company filed its bill in
the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio, against the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad
'ompany, the- Cincinnati Northern Rail.way Company, and
the said Braman and another, asking a foreclosure of certain
mortgages therein described. This cause was numbered 3554.
In October, 1883, the Central Trust Company filed its bill in
the same court against the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
Railroad Cbmpany, the Toledo, Delphos and Burlington
Railroad Company, and the said Braman, for a foreclosure
of certain mortgages therein -set forth, which cause was numbered 3578. On October 25, 1883, one William J. Craig was
appointed. receiver of the mortgaged property in each of these
causes, took possession of it and superseded the possession of
the former receiver, Dwight. October 27, 1883, the Grant
'Locomotive Works and the Atmeric.an Loan and Trust Company by leave filed, their iitervening petition in No. 3578, set,

TRIUST CO. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WQO.KS.

209

Statement of the Case.

ting up a contract between the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis
Railroad Company and the Grant Locomotive Works, for the
leasing and conditional purchase by and sale to the railroad
company of ten locomotives, Nos. 57' to 66, for the price of
$105,000, payable in instalments, the title to the locomotives
remaining in the Grant Locomotive Works until payment was
fully made; that the whole purchase price was represented
by bonds of the railroad company, made payable at the office
of the American- Loan and Trust, Company at Boston, and
certified to by said t'rst company as trustee; the default of
the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company,; 'and
praying a surrender of the ten locombtives and the payment
of all arrears due -forrent, interest and repairs up to that time
under said contract, and also of any deficiency that mightarise upon a resale b r them .of the said, ten locomotives, and
for other relief.
On the same day, R. S. Grant filed in No. 3554 his intervening petition, alleging a similar" contract, with 'the Cincinnati
Northern: Railway Company in respect to other locbm6tives
at the price of $90,558.97, of which $18,558.97 was paid in
cash, and the remaining $72,000 was made payable in-monthly
instalments, represented by bonds 6f the Cincinnati N'orthen,/
Railway Company, the .payment of which was assumed 'by"
the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Ralilroad Company, upon
consolidating with th4 former company in 1883, the title to.
the locomotives remaining in the said Grant until payment'in
full was completed; thedefault of the Toledo, Cincinnati and
St. Louis Railroad. Company; and, praying for the return of'
the locomotives; the, payment of all arrears due for Yent, interest and repairs up to that the; and also of any deficiency
,that miglit arise upon a resale of the said locomotives, and -for
other relief.
On December 6, 1883, Craig, as receiver, by his attorney,.
filed his answer to the intervening petitions, admitted .the
agreements and the defaults in payment, and further answered
that all the locomotives were in- his possession and were necessary to the operation of the railroads' by him, and prayed
that the court would make such -order as would enable him to
-

VOL. CXXXV-14

210

OCTOBER TERM; 1889.
Statement of the Case.

retain the possession and use of the locomotives. On the 17th
of Deceniber, 1883, the attorney of the receiver notified the
judge of the court that there was no reason why judgment
should not go upon the intervening petitions, and that there
was no objection to the draft of decrees, as the receiver had
only resisted claims for damages, and these had been waived.
On the 22d day of December, 1883, of the October term, two
orders were entered in each of said causes Nos. 3554 and 3578,
in favor of the intervening petitioners. The two in favor
of IR. S. Grant in No. 3551.were as follows:
"The said cause came on to be heard upon the petition and
,the answer. pf the ieceiver thereto and upon the evidence su1l-.
mitted on behalf of said petitioner.
"And it appearing to the satisfaction of the court that the
receiver has in his possession Grant locomotive, No. 73, and is
using the same in the operation of the said Cincinnati Northern Railway Company- between Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio,
and 'that said locomofive is 6ne of the ten covered by the
agreement of lease set out in said petition, and was acquired
by said railway company under -the terms of said agreement,
and'was 'so held at the date of the appointment of the receiver herein;
"il And it further appearing that the present receiver or his
predecessor took the said locomotive, with- its tender, into his
possession as such receiver on the first day of August last, and
-has had the same in continuous use and possession since that
-date without having made any of the monthly payments of
rental as provided in said indenture of lease, or other compesation for the.use thereof;
,CAnd it further appearing that the said locomotive is, in the
judgment of the receiver, necessary to the proper operation of
said railwa- pnd should be acquired as part of its permanent
equipment, and-that the value of said locomotive as fixed in said
agreement of lease is reasonable, and that the petitioner, IR. S.
Grant, the owner'of said locomotive and tender, is willing,
upon rcceipt of the contract price or upon being adequately
secured terein, to transfer the title of the same to the receiver:
"And the matter being fully heard by The court and u'cii

TRUST CO. v.' GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

N1

Statement of. the Case.

due deliberation thereon, it is hereby ordered, adjudged hud
decreed that the receiver pay to the said petifioner as ,rental
for said locomotive and tender and in full of all claims for rental,"interest and repairs down to the frst day of Deceiiber,
1883, the sum of $770.48, the same being the amount due-tv
said date under the terms of said lease;
"And the further sum of $7520, balance in full as purchase
money for said locomotive and tender;
"And it is further ordered-tfhat thereceiver pay said .severai

amounts as part of the operating expenses of the said railway
out of any money not appropriated for the payment -of'jcurrent labor, supplies- and -taxes;
"And it is further ordered and decreed that the said severAl
amounts, with interest thereon at the rate of six per centfiim
the first day of December, 1883, shall be a charge upon- the
earnings, income -and all the property of the said Toledo,
Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company, and espfcialIy
of the said Cincinnati Northern:Railway Company, as ahead-of
the first mortgage or other bonded debt of said company' or
either of them; and any balance- of said several -amounts
remaining unpaid at the date of the foreclosure and sale of
said railways shall be,a first lien thereon, and the said ,sale
shall be made subject thereto."
The second order commenced-:
"The said cause came on to be heard upon the"petition.and
the answer of the receiver thereto and upon the evidenc6, sub.
mitted on behalf of said petitioner. And it appearing to h'
satisfaction of the court that the receiver has in his possession
Grant locomotives numbered' 67, 68 and 72, with their 'tenders, and is using the same in the operation of the said Southeastern Division of the said defendant company's railroad,
between Dayton and Wellston, Ohio, and that the said.loomotives are three of the ten covered by the agreement of k4tae
set out in said petition, and were acquired by said railway com
pany under the terms of said agreement, and were so -held at
the date of the appointment of the receiver h'erein."
This order continued in the terms of the- preceding one; and
decreed certain amounts of rentals, interest: and repairs ;down

OCTOBER TERMiV,

1889.

Statement of the Case.

to December 1, 1883, and a further sum in full as purchase
money for said locomaotives and tenders, and concluded as
follows:
"And it is further ordered that the receiver pay said several
amounts as part of the operating expenses of the said Southeastern Division out of any money not appropriated for the
payment of current labor, supplies and taxes.
"And it is further ordered and decreed that the said several
amounts, with interest thereon, at the rate of six per cent,
from the 1st day of -December, 1883, shall be a charge upon
tihe earnings, income and all the property of the said Toledo,
Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company, and especially
of the said division, prior to the 1st mortgage or other bonded
debt of said railroad or said division thereof, and any ;balance
of said several amounts remaining .unpaid at the date of the
foreclosure and sale of said railroad or said division shall be a
first lien thereon, and the said sale shall be made subject
thereto."
Upon the 7th day of March, A.D. 1881, the -same being
one of -the days of the February term, 1884, of the court,
these orders were suspended by an order of court, the petitioner objecting.
On the 15th day of March, A.D. 1884, the Central Trust
Company filed its petition in the cause, which it prayed
might be taken as an answer to the intervening petition of
Grant, and also as a petition for rehearing and review of the
orders of December 22, 1883, which it further asked should
be annulled and set aside.
On the 10th day of April, of the April term, 1884, an order
was entered in the Circuit Court as follows:
"This day .this cause came on further to be heard upon the
intervening petition of IR. Suydam Grant, filed in this cause
October 27, 1883, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, does order, adjudge and decree as follows, to wit :"The court finds that the two decrees herein made and
entered upon said intervenirng petition on the 22d day of
December, A.D. 1883, were entered without notice to the
complainant herein and without pr6of; tnat tne said decrees

TRUST CO. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

213

Statement of the Case.

are erroneous and unjust to the bondholders for whom said
complainant is trustee; that said decrees are not authorized by
the pleadings, and are based upon a misrecital of the fadts, as
evidenced by the record of this cause.
"That said decrees were authorized by the court without
examination, in the erroneous belief, entertained at thQ time.
that all the parties in interest had assented to said decrees, and
that the parties adversely interested acquired no knowledge of
the allowance of said decrees until *aboutthe 24th day of February, A.D. 1884, and after the adjournment of the term of
court at which the same were entered.
"And thereupon it is by the court, of its own motion,
ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said decrees be, and
they are hereby, annulled, set aside and held for naught.
"And the court, coming now to determine the question arising upon the said intervening p~tition of lR. Su'dam Grant'
does order, adjudge and decree as follows, to wit:
"That the relief prayed for in said intervening petition 'be,
and it is hereby, denied except as hereinafter provided.
"And the court does further find that the said petitioner is
entitled to fair compensation for the use of said rolling stock
described in his said intervening petition by the receiver of
this cause upon the railroad of the Cincinnati Northern Railway Company, defendant herein, and for any deterioration by
reason- of such use.
"But the court defers the determination of the amount of
such compensation until the coming in of the report thereon
of the master appointed in this cause on the 5th day of April,
A.D. 1884.
"And the court does further find that the said petitioner is
entitled to take and repossess himself of his said rolling stock,
wherever the. same may be found, in the possession of the
receiver appointed in this cause, or of the receiver appointedt
in causes Nos. 3576, 357f, 3578 and 3579 in this court.
"And leaie is hereby granted to said petitioner to apply at'
any time to this court for any additional orders that may be,
necessary in that behalf.
"And the said R. Suydam Grant applied for leave to answer

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

ithe petition of. the complainant, the Central Trust Company,
filed March 15,,1884, and to support his answer by affidavits
or other proof, and the court, entertaining the opinion that
the answer and affidavits proposed are, by the force of the
foregoing decree, rendered unnecessary, declined to grant the
leave asked, and refused to permit an answer to said petition
for rehearing, on affidavits or other proof in supportthereof,
to be filed; and thereupon the intervening petitioner, IL Suydam Grant, in open court, prayed an appeal from the foregoing decree, which is disallowed by the court."
Two like orders, mutatis mutandis, were entered in case
3578 on the petition of the Grant Locomotive Works and the,
American Loan and Trust Company, December 22, 1883, and
were suspended March 7, 1884, and set, aside April 10, 1884,
.by similar orders to those in No.3554..
In June, 1884, the Southeastern Division of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company was sold under a
decree of foreclosure, which sale was reported and confirmed
July 18, 1884. The Cincinnati Northern Division of the said
railroad was sold under a decree of foreclosure and the sale
confirmed by order, made on July 9, 1884. The decree for the
ia1%of the Southeastern Division provided that unless the railroad company defendant should within ten days pay into court
bho amount of interest in arrear, and the sum of $20,000 to be
applied -to the payment of costs and expenses, including the
receiver's indebtedness, then the property should be sold, and
that upon the sale not less than $20,000 should be paid in cash,
and such further portions of the purchase price should be paid
in cash as the court should from time to time direct, to meet
other claims which the court should adjudge to be prior to the
firstmortgage, the court reserving the right to resell in case of
failure to comply with any order in that regard; and that the
balance of the purchase money should be paid either in cash
or bonds taken at their net value under the decree. The fund
arising from the sale was directed to be applied to the pay'xeilt: 1st. Of costs, fees and expenses of sale; 2d. Of receiver's expenses and indebtedness, "and to the payment of any
other claims which have been or which may be adjudged by

TRUST CO. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

015

Statement of the Case.

this court in this cause to have priority over said first mortgage;" 3d. To the payment of the first mortgage bonds. The
decree for the sale of the Cincinnati Northern Division made
provisions similar in all respects, except that the amount to be
paid for costs and expenses and the amount of the bid to be
paid down in cash was $50,000. The Southeastern Division
was sold to N. H. Mansfield and others as trustees for $500,000,
and the Cincinnati Northern Division to J. N. Kinufey, A. S.
Winslow and others for $200,006. On the confirmation of
each of the said sales, it was ordered that the purchasers, upon
paying in cash the $20,000 or the $50,000, respectively, should
receive a conveyance of the. mortgaged property and become
snbrogated to all the rights thereof of the lien holders, parties
to the suit, and that the receivers should thereupon surrender
possession of the mortgaged property to such purchasers.
Each of the orders of confirmation contained the following
clause:
V'And it is further hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed'.
that this decree of confirmation of the sale of the premises
and property, rights and franchises aforesaid be subject to
the terms and provisions of the decree of sale heretofore
entered in this cause, whereby it is provided that of the purchase price so bid at said sale such further portions thereof, in
addition to the said sum of fifty 'thousand dollars heretofore'
mentioned, shall be paid in cash as this court might from time
to time in this case direct, in order to meet other claims.which
this court has or hereafter may adjudge in this case to be prior
in equity to said first mortgage, and whereby this court did
reserve the right to resell in this cause said premises -and
property, rights and franchises, upon the failure to comply.
within twenty days with-any order of this. court, in that
regard; and the right, title and interest of the said purchasers in and to the premises aiid property, rights and franchises
aforesaid by virtue of the said sale, and of this confirmation
th'ereof and of the deed to oe made in pursuanee hereof, shall
be deemed to be acquired subject to said provision."
On the 8th day of February, 1881, the Grant Locomotive
Works and R. S. Grant severally filed petitions in the causes

OCTO)BVR TERM, 189.
Statem~nt of the Case.

Nos.-3554 and 3578, setting up the matters hereinbefore de.
tailed, and alleging that the orders of April 10, 1884, purporting to annul the decrees'of December 22, 1883, were void;
that tho decrees were still in full force; and praying that
,the said decrees of December 22, 1883, be adjudged to be in
full force and effect, ard that the same be carried into execution.
The Central Trust Company answered, and the purchasers of
the Southeastern and of .the Cincinnati Northern Divisions
demurred, and on the 11th of June, 1887, the following order
was entered on each of said petitions:
"This cause this day was heard upon the petition of R. S.
Grant and the Grant Locomotive Works, respectively, herein
filed February 8, A.D. 1887, praying that the court set aside
certain orders hereinbefore made on the 10th day of April,
1884, setting aside certain other orders theretofore made herein,
on December 22, 1883, upon the intervening petition of
R. Suydam Grant, fied herein on October 27, 1883, and was
argued by counsel; and the court being fully advised in -the
premises, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that said order
of said 10th day of April, A.D. 1884, be, and the same hereby
is, set aside and held for naught, and that said orders of
December 22, 1883, be, and the same hereby are, restored.
"And thereupon came complainant, The Central Trust
Company, and prayed an appeal to the Supreme Court of the
United States from this decree setting aside said order of
April 10, 1884, and restoring said orders of December 22,
1883, which appeal is allowed upon complainant giving bond
in the sum of five hundred dollars for costs, to be approved '
by the clerk of this court."
The appeals so allowed were never perfected.
January 28,1889, the intervening petitioners having moved
that the purchasers of the railroad property be required to
*payinto the registry of the court, for the use of the intervenors,
the amounts due under the decrees, and that in default thereof
the said railroad company .property be resold'for the benefit
of the intervenors, decrees were entered -in each case, reciting:
"And the said intervenor being present, by his counsel, and
the purchasers of the -Dayton and of the Cincinnati Divisions

TRYST CO. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE!WORKS.

217

Statement of the Case.

being represented by q. W. Fairbanks, their solicitor, and the
Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern Railway Comfphny, assignee
of the purchasers at the foreclosure sale of the Cincinnati
Northern Railway, by William M. Ramsey, its solicitor, and
the Dayton, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad Company, assignee of the purchasers of the Southeastern Division, and of the
purchasers of the Iron Railroad, by John C. Coombs, its solicitor, and R. D. Marshall, the present receiver of the said railroad
company, and the purchasers of the main line, the Toledo Terminal, and the St. Louis Division, being present by Clarence
Brown, their solicitor, objecting to the jurisdiction of the
court, and the complainant, the Central Trust Company of
New York, opposing said motion of the said intervenor, being
represented by Edward Colston, its solicitor. And, thereupon,
pending the hearing upon the said motion, comes the complainant, the Central Trust Company of New York, [and prays
that its petition for rehearing, filed] on the 15th day of March,
1884, be now heard as a petition for a rehearing of the said
decrees of December 22, 1883; or, if that relief be denied, that
the same be taken and held to be a bill of review, or a bill
in the nature of a bill of review; or, if that relief be denied,
that the said petition be amended and supplemented in certain
respects, as sfated in a certain paper now read, and be now docketed as an original bill of review as of the 15th day of March,
1884,". which application and each part thereof was denied,
and the Trust Company excepted; and, also, pending the
hearing, the Dayton, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad Company, as assignee of the purchasers of the Southeastern Divis-.
ion, prayed leave to intervene and be heard "in review. upon
the matters of the original orders and decrees entered herein
on December 22, 1883, and as set forth in a petition in writing
therefor;" -vhiQh it moved the court for leave to file herein,
which application was denied and the railroad company
excepted.
The court, then, having heard argument, decreed that the
respective purchasers should make payments into court, within
sixty days, of the amounts still due to the intervening peti,ioners, and that in default of such paynient the mortgaged

218

OCTOBER TEIM 1889.
Statement of the Case.

property should be resold. The decrees recited the setting
aside, on.the ltith of June, 1887, of the orders of the 10th of
April, 1884, as void, and that all the orders or decrees entered
in pursuance or in execution of the said order of April 10,
1884, were equally void and of no effect, and that the decrees
entered on December 22, 1883, were in full force and effect;
and ascertained the amounts remaining due, after deducting
credits, to the Grant Locomotive Works for locomotives which
had been used upon the Southeastern Division, with interest
from a date named, and for a locomotive which had been used
on the Cincinnati Northern Division; and the amounts remaining due, aftei deducting credits,, to Grant for certain
locomotives which had been used on the Southeastern Division, and for a locomotive which had been used on the.Cincinnati Northern Division, with interest; and ordered that the
amounts should be paid, and upon default thereof the divisions
should be sold to realize the said amounts respectively. It
was provided also that the decrees were "without prejudice to
apy right the said intervehors may have to apply for orders to
resell other mortgage divisions of the Toledo, Cincinnati and
St. Louis Railroad for the payment out of the proceeds of such
resale of any balance of the amount hereinbefore named;"
and without prejudice to the right of contribution as between
the °purchasers of the divisions named and the purchasers of
other divisions of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad.
From the orders of January 28, 1889, the Central Trust Company was allowed and perfected appeals to this court, which
are here docketed as Nos. 12T7 and -1279.
Exceptions to the rulings of- the court, denying the motions
of the Trust Company that its petitions filed March 15, 1884,
be" amended and supplemented, and permitted to be filed as
original bills of review- as of that 'date, appear in the records.
.The Dayton, Fort Wayne and Chicago Railroad Company
was allowed and perfecte d appeals to this court from parts of
three of the said orders of January 28, .1889. These appeals
are Nos' 4078 and 1280.
On the same 28th of January the Central Trust Company,
by itq. solicTtors, Bled in the clerk's office of the Circuit Court

TRUST CO. .v.. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

219

Statement of the Case.

its bill of review against the Grant Locomotive Works and
the American Loan and Trust Company, stating the filing of
its bill of foreclosure October 20, 1883, in No. 3578; the
appointment of Craig as receiver; the filing of the bill in
No. 3554, and in three other cases; the objects of the five
bills; the filing of similar bills in October, 1883, for the foreclosure of mortgages, made respectively by other constituent
companies on their respective roads, which roads when connected would form a line of railroad extending from Delphos
to Toledo, Ohio, and from Delphos through Indiana and Illinois to East St. Louis, Illinois, in the proper Circuit Courts of
the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, the District of Indiana, and the Southern District of Illinois; that
the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company was a
corporation formed by the consolidation; under the respective
laws of Illinois, Indiana and Ohio, of the above-named constituent companies and other companies, extending from
St. Louis to Delphos, thence to Toledo, and from Delphos to
Cincinnati and Ironton; that each mortgage was a separate
and distinct mortgage upon separate property, there being no
property in one mortgage included in another; that all of said
mortgages were made prior to any consolidation and were
entirely unaffected thereby; that on October 27, 188t, the
American Loan and Trust Company and the Grant Locomotive Works filed their intervening petition in No. 3578, A copy
of which is attached to and made part of said bill of review;
that certain orders were entered thereon, set aside, etc., giving
the proceedings in detail; that te -rCilroad was sold on fore
closure in No. 3578 in June, 1884, but not sqbject to any
claim or lien for locomotives, and none of the locomotives
were included in said sale, but were treated as the -property
of the Locomotive Works and Grant; that they subsequently
took and 'removed said locomotives; that in February, 1887,
the Grant Locomotive Works and Grant filed petitions to set
aside the orders of April. 10, 1884, and restore the orders of
December 22, 1883, which petitions were granted on'June 11,
1887, and the orders of April 10, 1884, were set aside and
adjudged to be null and void, and the orders of December 22,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1889.
Statement of the Case.

1883, were restored ; that the Grant Locomotive Works filed
its motion in No. 3578, asking for an order that the purchasers
of the railroad sold in that case pay into court the several
amounts mentioned in the orders of December 22, 1883 ; that
thereupon complainant prayed the court to treat such proceedings of March 15, 1884, entitled "petition for rehearing," as a
bill of review to correct said orders, and to permit complainant to amend said proceedings of March 15, 1884, by adding
thereto the averments contained in this bill of review, and to
docket the same as thus amended as an original bill of review
as of date March 15, 1884; and that the court refused to allow
the same to be done, and ordered, January 28, 1889, the railroad to be sold unless the respective amounts named in the
ordters of December 22, 1883, should be paid within sixty days
by the purchasers of said railroad sold at foreclosure sale in
No. 3578. Complainant further says that it was impossible
for it to file a bill of review to correct said decrees (of December 22, 1883) at any time between March 15, 1884, and June
11, 1887; because said decrees, by said order of April 10, 1884,
had been set aside and annulled, and complainant so regarded
them during said period, and moreover it believed, and had
the right to believe, that said Grant Locomotive Works and
the American Loan and Trust Company and R. S. Grant had
abandoned all claim of right under the orders of December 22,
1883 ; and therefore complainant says that said period. of time
should not have been counted against it in filing its bill of
review; that the said orders of December 22, 1883, "are erroneous and ought to be reviewed, reversed and set aside for
the many errors and imperfections common thereto, as shown
by the record of the said case 3578, that is to say;" and then
follow a number of grounds assigned for the review desired,
and special grounds as to each of the orders. Complainant
"files herewith a copy of the record in said cases 3554 and
3578, and craves leave to refer to same as part hereof," and
prays that the orders be reviewed, reversed ard set aside,
and that the American Loan and Trust Company and said
Grant Locomotive Works may be required 1o ansver the premises, and for general relief. This bill of review was subscribed

TRUST 00. v. GRANT LOComoTIVE WORKS.

221

Opinion -of the Court.

and sworn to January 10, A.D. 1889. Process was issued and
Served on the solicitor of record for the American Loan
and Trust Company and the Grant Locomotive. Works.
On the 29th day of January, 1889, there came on to be
heard the motion of the said Loan and Trust Company and
the Grant Locomotive Works, to strike the bill of review from
the files, which was argued by counsel, and sustained by the
court. From this order the Central Trust Company prayed
an appeal to this court, which was granted, and bond given
and approved on the 31st day of January, A.D. 1889. The
record was filed in this court October 2, 1889, and-the cause
docketed as number 1281.
On the same 28th day of January the Central Trust Company filed a similar bill of review against R. S. Grant, setting
up the prior bill of foreclosure in case No. 3554 and the subsequent proceedings thereon, and on the intervening petition of
R. S. Grant, as in the other case, and praying similar relief -on
the same grounds in respect to the orders of December 22,
1883. This bill of review was likewise stricken from the files
on the 29th day of January, 1889, and an appeal prayed to
this court, the record being filed herein October 2, 1889, and
the cause numbered 1282.
Mr. B. H. Bristow, .r.

Bluford Wilson and

lr. W. S.

Opdyke in support of the motions to dismiss or affirm.
Mr. Edward Colston and Mlfr. George H~oadly, Jr., opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLEn delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appeals in 1277, 1278, 1279 and 1280 were taken from
the orders of January 28, 1889, requiring payment for the use
of the Grant Locomotive Works, and R. S. Grant, of the
amounts decreed December 22, 1883, (less what had been
received in the intermediate period,) and in execution of said
decrees, from the purchasers of the Southeastern Division,
and from the purchasers of the Cincinnati Korthern Division,
of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of -the Court.

These purchasers bought subject to the provisions of the
decrees, the terms of sale, and the orders confirming the sales,
which were the source of their title, and which provided for
the payment down of a specified sum in cash, and of 'such further portions of their bid in cash as might be necessary in
order to meet such other claims as the court might adjudge to
be prior in equity to the mortgages, with the reservation of a
right of resale in case of default in this particular; and the
right, title and interest they acquired was expressly made subject to these provisions. Costs, fees and expenses of sale, receiver's expenses and indebtedness, and claims awarded priority,
were to be first paid. The balance of their bid they could pay
in cash or in first mortgage bonds. That bid, in the instance
of the Southeastern Division, was $500,000, and the purchasers
were not required by the orders in question to pay any amount
in excess thereof. Neither the purchasers of the Cincinnati
Northern Division, nor their assignee, the Cincinnati, Lebanon
and Northern Railway Company, took any appeal.
It does not appear to us that the Dayton, Fort Wayne and
Chicago Railroad Company, the assignee of the purchasers of
the Southeastern Division, has an appealable interest in the
premises.
The purchasers were bound to pay such portions of their bid
in cash as the court might* direct, to meet other claims, and
whether the payments of their bids were to be made for the
benefit of the bondholders, or partly for the bondholders and
partly for the benefit of the appellees, it is clear that they, as
purchasers, and the railroad company, as their assignee, had no
interest in the matters affected by the decrees appealed from.
In Swann v. Wright's Eecutor, 110 U. S. 590, 601, Swann
had purchased the railroad under a decree, which provided
that th4 sale should be subject to the liens already establishedy or which might be established on references then pending, as prior and superior to the lien Qf the mortgage, and the
claim of Wright was one of this class. It was pending before
the master and reported on after the sale, when the purchaser
applied to oppose its confirmation, and was not allowed to do
so; and the sale was afterwards confirmed, expressly subject

TRUST CO. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.
Opinion of the'Cont.-

to all liens established as specified in the decree of sale.
Swann afterwards filed a bill to set aside Wright's claim, for
fraud in its inception, which was dismissed,.and the dismissal
affirmed on the ground that the property was purchased ex.
pressly subject to all established claims, or claims that might
be established on references then pending, which included
Wright's. "If the court," observed Mr. Justice Harlan, delivering the opinion, "had in the decree of sale reserved to the
purchaser, although not a party to- the proceedings, the right
to appear and contest any alleged liens then under examination, and, therefore, not established by the court, ail entirely
different question would have been presented. But no such
reservation was made; and the purchaser was required, without qualification, to take the property, upon confirmation of
the sale, subject to the liens already established, or which
might, on pending references, be established as prior and superior to the liens of the first mortgage bondholders.
All that we decide is, that in view of the express terms of the
-decree of sale, and since neither the purchaser nor his grantee
proposes to surrender the property to be resold for the benefit
of those concerned, such purchaser has no standing in court
for the purpose of re-litigating the liens expressly subject to
which he bought and took title."
In Stuart v. .Gay, 127 U. S. 518, under a decree for the,
foreclosure of certain liens, which contemplated the payment
of the purchase money, on the sale, in money, in annual instalments, Stuart purchased, and by a subsequent order was
'allowed to becredited on unpaid purchase money with various
liens he had acquired. From a later order in respect to allowances of interest upon certain prior liens he appealed to this
court, and it was held that he had no appealable interest, a,,.a
purchaser of the property, because it was a matter of indifference to him as such how the proceeds of the sale should be
distributed among the creditors.
It is argued, however, that the purchase of the Soutneastern Division was- ot made subject to the decrees of December 22, 1883, because it is said that at the time of the
purchase "these decrees were dead and thought to be beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of- the. Court.

resurrection;" and "that a purchaser buying under such circumstances ought to have the right, to resist their reappearance." This would hardly be contended if the orders of April
10, 1884, were void for want of jurisdict.ion to enter them.
Those orders were not made upon a bill of review or a bill in
that nature, nor upon any petition for rehearing, which under
equity rule 88 could not then have been filed if the decrees
of December 22, 1883, were final and appealable. On March
15, 1884, the Central Trust Company filed certain petitions
which it asked, might be treated as petitions for rehearing or
inreview, but the court made no order in regard to them, and
did not predicate its action upon them. On the contrary, it
was specifically'set forth that the orders of December 22, 1883,
were annulled and set aside "by the court of its own motion."
If these'orders *Were final decrees, the court could not vacate
them of its own motion after the close of the October Term,
1883. McMJc.iken v. Perin,18 How. 507, 511. We think they
were final. They determined the ownership of the locomotives and the right to their possession; that they were essential to the operation of the roads by the receiver, and should
be purchased by him; that certain designated amounts should
be paid for the -rentals and the purchase price, which amounts
were made a charge upon the earnings, income and property
of the Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad Company,
and especially of the particular divisions named; and that the
amounts should be paid by the receiver, and any balance remaiiing unpaid at the date of the foreclosure and sale of the
railroad, or the particular division, should be a first lien thereon

and the sale be made subject thereto. They were, therefore,
final in their nature, and made upon matters distinct from the
general, subject of litigation, the foreclosure of the inortgages.
. In T'ustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, an appeal from an
order for the allowance of costs and expenses to a complainant,
suing on behalf of a trust fund, was sustained. In Hinckley
v. Gilman, Clinton & Springield Railroad -Company,94 U. S.
467, a receiver was allowed to appeal from a decree against
him to pay a sum of money in the cause in which he was
appointed. In Tilliam,8 v. Yiorgan, 111 U. S. 684, a decree

TRUST 0. v. GRANT LOCOMOTIVE WORKS.

225

Opinion of the Court.

in a foreclosure suit, fixing the compensation to be paid to the
trustees under a mortgage from the fund realized from the
sale, was held to be a final decree as to that matter; and in
Fo8dick v. Schall, 99 U. S. 235, a decree upon an intervening
petition in respect to certain cars used by a railroad company
under a contract with the manufacturer was so treated. There
was a fund in court in that case, but in principle the orders
here are the same. And see Farmers' loam & Trust Co.,
Petitioner,129 U. S. 206, 213.
The decrees of June 11, 1887, were clearly right in adjudicating the orders of April 10, 1884, to be of no effect, and
reinstating the prior decrees.
Even if the orders of April 10, 1884, were voidable merely,
the purchasers should have made the defence now suggested,
of reliance upon them, when the application was made which
resulted in the decrees of June 11, 1887. They did indeed
appear and file a demurrer, but they made. no resistance upon
the merits, and they certainly prayed no appeal from the
decrees then entered.
The result is that the appeals of the Dayton, Fort Wayne
and Chicago IRailroad Company, Nos. 1278 and 1280, must be
dismissed.
Turning to the appeals of the Central Trust Company, it is
strenuously argued, in support of the motions to dismiss, that
as the decrees of January 28, 1889, affected the purchasers
only, the bondholders as such had no further interest in the
litigation, nor had their representative, the Trust Company;
that at least the record does not definitely show that either
the Trust Company or the railroad company had certainly an
interest; that though one or the other may have had, it is not
sufficiently clear which it is; and that, therefore, the appeals
of both must be dismissed. It is enough that sufficient color
is given to the motions to enable us to pass upon the motions
to affirm.
The orders of January 28, 1889, which are alone appealed
from, were merely in execution of the former decrees, and as
such we do not find that any error supervened in their rendition. The amounts named ware not disputed and could not
VOL. CXXXV-15

OdTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

have been, except in respect to credits, as to which there was
no controversy, inasmuch as those amounts had been previously determined, and their payment decreed; and the resale had been expressly provided for in the foreclosure decrees
and the order of confirmation.
The action of the Circuit Court in refusing to allow the
Trust Company to amend and supplement its petitions of
March 15, 1884, and file them as original bills of review as of
that date, and in .denying the application of the Dayton, Fort
Wayne and Chicago Railroad Company to intervene and file a
petition in the cases in review of the orders of December 22,
1883, was taken in the exercise of a discretion with which we
are not justified in interfering. Bzffngton v. Ha?-vey, 95 U. S.
99 ; Brockett v. Brookett, 2 How. 238 ; .Mellen v. .foline Iron
Works, 131 U. S. 352.
No appeal having been prosecuted from the orders of
December 22, 1883, or those of June 11, 1887, and the appeals
from the orders of January 28, 1889, only, not bringing the
former orders before us for revision, we are constrained to
sustain the motions to affirm in Nos. 1277 and 1279, without
enterilng upon the consideration of the errors so earnestly urged
as existing in the December decrees.
It remains to dispose of the motions in Nos. 1281 and 1282.
These are appeals from orders of the Circuit Court striking
from the files two bills placed there on the 28th of January,
1889, by the Central Trust Company, to review the decrees of
December 22, 1883, for errors .apparent.
Reference is made to the records in the cases 3554 and 3578,
and we do appellant no injustice in assuming that these bills,
verified January 10, 1889, are the same presented to the Cireuit
Court when application was made in those cases for leave to
amend and supplement appellant's petitions of March 15, 1884,
and docket the same as bills of review of that date. That application having been denied, appellant put these papers on file
as the court was entering the other orders. 'Here again, while
the motions to dismiss-will not be sustained, we hold there was
color for them.
The bills are not based upon new matter or newly diiwov-

ST. GERMAIN v. BRUNSWICK.
Syllabus.

ered evidence, and no leave was given to file them. They are
clearly bills for the review of the orders of December 22, 1883,
for errors apparent of record. Such bills must ordinarily be
brought within the time limited by statute for taking an appeal from the decree sought to be reviewed. Ylhon'as v. Earvel's Heirs, 10 Wheat. 146 ; Ensminger v. Powers, 108 U. S.
292, 302. Over five years had elapsed, but it is insisted that
the time between the 10th of April, 1881, and the 11th of
June, 1887, when the orders of April 10, 1884, were declared
void, ought not to be considered in passing upon this question,
because of appellant's belief in the validity of and reliance
upon those orders and the acquiescence of appellees therein.
It seems to us that appellant was not justified in such. belief
and reliance, and that, at all events, after the orders of June 11,
1887, it should have moved promptly by way of appeal or bill
of review. These bills attack the orders of December 22, 1883,
merely, and not the decrees of June 11, 1887, reinstating the
former as in full force and effect.
The rule laid down in Thomas v. Harvie's Heirs is based
upon the principle of discountenancing laches and neglect.
Under all the circumstances, we cannot concede that appellant
acted in apt time, and must therefore affirm the orders of the
Circuit Court striking the bills from the files.
The appeals in _Vos. 1278 and 1280 are disnissed and the
decrees i 2os. 1277, 1279, 1281 and 1282 are afli rmed.

ST. GERMAIN v. BRUNSWICK.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES F45R

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 257.

Argued aud submitted April 11, 1890.-Decided April 28, 1890.

The application of an old process, or machine or apparatus to a similar or
analogous subject, with no change in the manner of application, and no
result substantially distinct in its nature, will not sustain a patent,

