OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

SOCIETR FONCI RE ET AGRICOLE DES
UNIS v. MILLIKEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED

STATES

PTATS

FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 274. Submitted April 18, 1890.-Decided, May 5, 1890.

Section 1373, Rev. Stats. Texas, authorizes the*granting of new trials only
where the judgment was rendered on service of process by publication.
Whether, in tle absence of a statute, a judgment under which property has
been levied upon and sold, and which has stood unchallenged for nearly
two years, can be set aside otherwise than through proceedings in equity,
qucere.
A foreign corporation doing business in the State of Texas may be brought
Into court by service of process upon its agent there.
An affidavit, preliminary to the issue of an attachment in Texas upon a foreign
corporation, which recites that the defendant "is not a resident corporation, or is a foreign corporation, pr is acting as such," is a sufficient
affidavit under Rev. -Stats. Texas, Art. 152. Hopkins v. Nichols, 22 Texas,
206, distinguished.
A delay of two years in commencing proceedings to set aside a judgment for
-usury is laches, and is fatal.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M'. John T. Iarcourt for plaintiff in error.
'. A. S. Lathrop for defendant in error.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On June 8, 1883, two judgments were rendered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas, in favor of Sam. -H.-Milliken and against the Soci6td
Fonci~re et Agricole des ]Rtats Unis.
On August 7, 1883, September 4, 1883, and April 1, 1884, a
large number of lots and a body of lands were sold in satisfaction of an execution issued on these judgments, the bulk of the
property being sold in 1883. Thereafter, and on June 6, 1885,
an application was made by the defendant, the Soci6t6 Fonciore

SocL9TP, FONOIARE v.-NaLLIKEN.
Opinion'of the Com-t.

et Agricole des Iats Unis and Edmond Moreau to set aside said
judgments and the sales made thereunder. To this application
demurrers, general and special, were filed by Milliken, and sustained; and the application was dismissed. From the order or
judgment of dismissal this proceeding. in error has been prosecuted; and the single inquiry is, whether the court erred in denying the application. It was made under article 1373, Revised
Statutes of Texas, cited by counsel: "In cases in which judgment
has been rendered on service of process by publication, where the
defendant has not appeared in person or by an attorney of his
own selection, a new trial may be granted by the' court upon
the application of the defendant, for good cause shown, supported by affidavit, filed within two years after the rendition
of such judgment;" but obviously that article does not refer
to a case of this kind. It applies only to cases in which judgment has been rendered upon service of process by publication;
but here there was no publication, no service of process
attempted in that way. This is the only statutory provision
referred to by counsel; and as that is not applicable, we must
assume that there is no special statutory provision applicable
to a case of this kind.
In the absence of a statute, can a judgment under which
property has been levied upon and sold, and which has stood
unchallenged for nearly two years, be set aside otherwise than
through proceedings in equity? Certainly the ordinary remedy
is in equity; and that is one of the grounds of demurrer pre
sented by defendant. But waiving this question, is any sufficient reason shown for setting aside the judgments?
It appears that the plaintiff in error is a foreign corporation,
organized under the laws of the Republic of France, and with
its principal place of business in Paris; and organized with
a special reference to business in the State of Texas, as,
shown by this statement from its charter: "This society, has
for its object all real estate, agricultural, nd commercial
operations of every nature whatsoever regarding- the. purchase, the acquisition in the way of grants or otherwise, and
the improvement as owners or otherwise-of lands in the State
of Texas, America; the execution of public or private improvevoL. cxxxv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

ments, and'improvements of every kind on the lands worked by
the society; the sale or transfer of all products lands, and other
real or personal property belonging to the society. The society
may also congolidate with other companies and establishments,
of same or different nature, situated in France or in America,
acquire all.rights and obligations of these companies, or take an
interest therein." It had an agent in Texas, Henry P. du Bellet,
who seems to have had and exercised all the powers of a general
agent. As such agent he borrowed money from Milliken; and
on July 9, July 21, and December 27, 1882, respectively, executed notes on behalf and in the name of the society for the
sums borrowed, and gave deeds of trust to secure the payment
thereof. These notes not being paid on the 9th of January,
1883, the first suit was brought;. and service of process made
upondu Bellet, as agent. On the 16th day of May, 1883, and
after the commencement of the first suit, he borrowed more
money from Milliken, .and gave a new note in the name of the
society, upon which the sec nd suit was brought; and, as heretofore stated, on June 8; 1883, judgments were rendered in both
suits. At the commencement of the first suit, a writ of attachment was sued out.and levied upon the lands above referred to.
The right of du Bellet to borrow money in the name of the
society, and to execute the trust deeds in its behalf, is not
questioned: The claim is that he had no authority to receive
service of process orr tehalf o'f the company, and that usurious
'interest was included in the judgments ; also that, at the time
of the commencement of the suits, the society had gone into
liquidation in France, and that Moreau, the other petitioner,
was the duly appointed liquidator.
That du Bellet was an agent, with varied general powers, in fact the agent of the society in Texas,- is clear. His
authority to borrow money, execute notes and trust deeds in
the name and for the benefit of the society, is conceded. So
.far as appears, he accepted service of process in each 'suit,
without question; and after service of process in the first case,
dealt with the plaintiff, and gave him the new note out of
ivhich the second suit arose. Not only that; he is the party
by whom the present application is evidently controlled, for

SOCIETE FONCI RE v. MILLIKEN.
Opinion of the Court.

he verifies the application, and in it swears that he is the'
agent of the society.
Article 1223, Revised Statutes of Texas, 1879, provides:
"In suits against any incorporated company or joint-stock
association, the citation may be served on the president, secretary or treasurer of such company or association, or upon the
local agent, representing such company or association in the
county in which suit is brought, or by laring a dopy of
the same at the principal office of the company during office
hours." The language is, "any incorporated company," language broad enough to include foreign as well as domestic
corporations; and that it was intended to include foreign corporations is evident from prior legislation, for which this is a
substitute. Chapter 31, Laws 1874, provided as follows:
"That hereafter any public or private corporation, including
railroad companies, created by or under the laws of this State,
or any other State or country, may be sued in any court 'in
this State having jurisdiction of the subject-matter, and in
any county where the cause of action or aiiy part thereof
accrued, or in any county where such corporation has an
agency, or representative, or in the county in which the principal office of such corporation is situated. That service of
process on any of such corporations may be had by delivering
a copy of such process, with the certified copy of plaintiff's
petition, if any, to the president, secretary, treasurer, principal
officers or the agent." Article 1223 was evidently subtituted
for this act, which is cited in the margin of the Revised Stat-,
utes, opposite the article. The act of 1874 expressly named
corporations created under the laws of other States or
countries, as well as those created under the laws of Texas.
Article 1223, reducing the number of words, expresses the
the same meaning by the words "any incorporated company." It matters not under what law the company' is
organized, or where its domicil is, service of process may be
made upon the local agent representing it within the county
in which the suit is brought.

Angerhoefer v. Bradwsreel Qo.,

22 Fed. Rep. 305. In what county suit may be brought is
determined by other sections, which need not be cited here,.as

OCTOBER LTERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

the right to.sue6 in the federal court is not questioned. So,'the
court having jurisdiction of the cause of action, service might
be made upon the local agent representing the society. Du
Bellet was unquestionably such agent, and service upon him
was sufficient to bring the society into court.
Again, iithe first suit an attachment was issued and levied
on the lands. Article 152 of the Revised Statutes states twelve
separate grounds therefor. The second is : "That the defendant is not a resident of the State or is a foreign corporatioi, or
is acting as such." The affidavit in this case, which by such
article is required as preliminary to the issue of attachment,
follows th very language of the statute, and alleges that the
defendant "is not a resident corporation, or is a foreign corporation, or is acting as such." The disjunctive form of this
averment is claimed to render it wholly invalid, and lokina
v..Nichols, 22 Texas, 206, is cited as authority. That case lield
"that an attachment will be quashed, if issued upon an affidavit
alleging in the disjunctive the one or the other of two distinct
causes for the attachment." But that decision has no application. There are no distinct causes for an attachment stated in
this affidavit. The single cause is non-residence, the cause
stated in clause two, quoted above ; and while the language of
the affidavit may be open to criticism, yet its meaning is clear.
It describes only one cause for attachment, to wit, non-residence, and was sufficient to sustain an attachment. There can
be but little doubt, therefore, that the court had jurisdiction of
the lands by attachment, and of the defendant by service upon
its agent.
With regard to the question of usury. The application alleges that the usury up to the date of the judgment amounted
to $1179.08 ; it also alleges that the ten per cent attorney's fee;
provided in the notes, was simply a cover for usurious interest,
and the amount thereof, in fact, taken and neceived by Milliken. Assuming all this to be true, as it must be upon demurrer,
the fact remains that the defendant waited two years, lacking
two days, and until more than a year after all the sales had
been made, before challenging the validity of the proceedings.
NO excuse for this delay is shown. Obviously, the defendant

WILLAR-D v. WOOD.

309

Syllabus.

was proceeding under the statute, which we have see, has no
application; and independently of the statute, its delay unexcused is fatal. For, conceding the large amount of the judgment to be just, it attacks only an inconsiderable portion. Its
agent being served with process, it is charged with knowledge,
and some excuse for its long delay must be shown before the
court would be justified in setting aside the judgment.. The
same observation may be made in reference to the matter of
the sales; and, in addition, it must be noticed, that no distinct
act of wrong is charged. "The allegation is, "1that the said Sam.
H. Milliken, by his management, prevented fair competition,
and discouraged and prevented other bi.ders, so that he could
obtain the purchase of all of said property." No specifi' act
of wrong-doing appears in this averment, and no fact is stated
from which the court can deduce misconduct. With reference
to the allegation, "that the society was in liquidation, and had
been placed by the French court in charge of Edmond Moreau,
as liquidator," it is enough to say, that that fact would not prevent Milliken from establishing his claim by suit in the courts
of Texas against the corporation, and subjecting its property
to the satisfaction thereof.
So, in conclusion, waiving any question of the form in
which this application was presented, there was no error in
denying it.
And the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Affl9med

WILLARD v. WOOD.
m

Ro TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRIT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 280. Argued April 22,1890.-Declded May 5,1890.

The question whether the remedy of a mortgagee against a grantee of the
mortgagor, to enforce an agreement of such grantee, contained in the
deed to him, to pay the mortgage debt, is at law or in equity, is governed by the lezfori.

