GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS, TRUSTEE OF BROWN,
BANKRUPT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 164.

Argued March 11, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

Where the trustee can only sell a lease subject to the claim of the lessors
that the transfer of the bankrupt's interest in the lease gives a right of
reentry under a condition therein, the bankruptcy court has jurisdiction
of a proceeding, initiated by the trustee and to which the lessors are parties, to determine the validity of the lessor's claim and remove the cloud
caused by the lessor's claim.
The passage of a lease from the bankrupt to the trustee is by operation of
law and not by the act of the bankrupt nor by sale, and a sale by the
trustee of the bankrupt's interest is not forbidden by, nor is it a breach
of, a covenant for reentry in case of assignment by the lessee or sale of
his interest under exe cution or other legal process, where, as in this case,
there is no covenant against transfer by operation of law.
147 Fed. Rep. 678, affirmed.

16,. 1902, W. A. Gazlay, Hanna F. Gazlay, Hulda G.
-Miller, Emma G. Donaldson, Julia G. Stewart and Clara G.
Kuhn entered into a written agreement as lessors with one
J. D. Kueny, whereby, in consideration of the rents to be paid
and the covenants to be performed by said lessee, his heirs
and assigns, they leased to said Kueny certain premises situate
on the east side of Vine street, south of Sixth street, Cincinnati,
Ohio, for a period of ten years, with the privilege of ten years
JUNE

additional.
The lease contained the following condition:
"Provided, however, that if said lessee shall assign this
lease or underlet said premises, or any part thereof, or if
said lessee's interest therein shall be sold under execution or

*other legal process, without the written consent of said lessors,
their heirs or assigns, is first had, or if said lessee or assigns
shall fail to keep any of the other covenants of this lease by

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

said lessee to be kept, it shall be lawful for said lessors, their
heirs or assigns, into said premises to reenter and the same
to have again, repossess and enjoy as in their first and former
estate, and thereupon this lease and everything therein contained on the said lessors' behalf to be done and performed,
shall cease, determine, and be utterly void."
On the ninth of April the lessors filed a petition in the Superior Court of Cincinnati, Ohio, against J. D. Kueny for the
recovery of rent due under the lease. In their petition the
lessors asked that a receiver be appointed to take charge of
all the property of said J. D. Kueny, including said leasehold
estate, and that said leasehold premises and the unexpired
term be sold, "subject, however, to all the terms, covenants
and conditions contained in the lease from said plaintiffs to
said J. D. Kueny." The court thereupon appointed receivers
to take charge of and manage said property, and later made
an order directing said receivers to sell all of the personal property of said J. D. Kueny, including the leasehold estate, and
under said order all of said property, including said leasehold
estate, was sold to H. D. Brown, 'who took possession of the
same, made extensive improvements thereon and paid to the
lessors the rent reserved under said lease, from the time he
took possession, July, 1905, to January, 1906, when proceedings were begun against him in the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, to have him adjudged a bankrupt.
Pending the adjudication, a receiver was appointed, who
took charge of all of Brown's property, including said leasehold estate, 'and who, as such receiver, paid to said lessors the
rent reserved in said lease for the month of January, 1906.
In February, 1906, the appellee herein, Fletcher R. Williams,
was elected as trustee in bankruptcy of the estate and effects
of said Brown, and on March 1, 1906, he filed in the bankruptcy proceedings an application for the sale of said leasehold
estate, making the lessors parties thereto, and asking that they
be required to set up any claim they might have upon the same.

GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS.
210 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

Process was issued and served upon all but one of the lessors
on March 5, 1906, and on that one on March 9, 1906.
On March 6, 1906, said trustee paid to W. A. Gazlay rent for
the month of February, 1906, the amount paid being the
monthly sum named in the said lease. Thereupon said lessors,
coming in for the purposes of the motion only, filed a motion
to be dismissed from the proceedings on the ground that the
court had no jurisdiction over their persons, which motion was
overruled by the referee in bankruptcy. Thereupon the lessors
filed an answer "and without intending to enter their appearance heiein, but acting under protest and the direction
of the court," alleged that the lease contained the condition,
among others, "that if said lessee should assign the lease or
underlet said leased premises or any other part thereof, or if
said lessee's interest therein should be sold under execution
or other legal process without the written consent of said
lessors, their heirs or assigns first had; or if said lessee or assign should fail to keep any of the other covenants of the lease
by lessee to be kept, it should be lawful for said lessors, their
assigns or heirs, into said premises to reenter and the same to
have again, repossess and enjoy, as in the first and former
estate; and thereupon this lease ahd everything therein contained on said lessor's behalf to be done and performed, should
cease, determine and be utterly void. They further say that
said lease and the premises thereby leased passed into the
possession of Harry D. Brown, the bankrupt herein, without
the written consent of said lessors, but with their acquiescence
only, and that said condition in said. lease is still in full force
and effect as against said Harry D. Brown and his trustee in
bankruptcy herein. That at the time of filing of the application herein, so far as they know or are informed, the said lessors
had no claim in said leasehold premises adverse to said trustee
in bankruptcy."
The case was submitted to the referee upon these pleadings,
an agreed statement of facts, and the arguments and briefs
of counsel.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

210 U. S.

The referee found that the trustee being in lawful possession
of said leasehold estate, the court had jurisdiction of the persons and subject-matter of the suit; that the claim of the
lessors, assuming that they had one and that it would be enforcible only after a sale, nevertheless was in the nature of a
cloud upon the title of the trustee to said leasehold estate,
and, as such, could be determined in this proceeding in advance of its happening, and he thereupon held that the lessors
had no right, as against the trustee in bankruptcy herein, to
forfeit the lease in the event of a sale by him under the court's
order and ordered the trustee to sell the same free from any
claim or right on the part of the lessors to forfeit the same.
To these findings and this judgment of the referee the lessors
took exception and filed a petition for a review of the same in
the District Court in Bankruptcy. The referee certified his
proceedings to the District Court, where, upon a hearing on
the pleadings and facts, the findings and judgment of the
referee were affirmed and the petition dismissed.
From this judgment the lessors took an appeal to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. There
the cause was again submitted upon the same pleadings and
facts as in the District Court, and that court affirmed the
judgment of the District Court, and held that the clause in
said lease providing for its forfeiture in case of a sale of the
same under execution or other legal process, without the
lessors' written consent thereto, had no application to a sale
by the trustee in bankruptcy, and that, therefore, the lessors
could not forfeit the lease in cise the trustees herein should
sell the same. 147 Fed. Rep. 678.
From this judgment the present appeal was taken.
Mr. Oscar W. Kuhn for appellants:
As between the original parties to this lease, the condition,
that if lessee's interest should be sold under execution or other
legal process without the lessors' written consent, it -might
be forfeited by the lessors, was a lawful and valid condition

GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

and, in the event of such a sale, would have rendered the
lease voidable in the hands of the purchaser. Farnumv. Heffner, 79 California, 575; Rex v. Tapping, McClel. & Y. 544;
Davis v. Eyton, 4 M. & P. 820; Doe v. Clark, 8 East, 185; In
re Ells, 98 Fed. Rep. 967; Tiffany on Real Property, p. 106;
1 Taylor, Landlord and Tenant, 409.
The lessors have the right to forfeit this lease in the event
of its sale by the trustee herein under his application for an
order of the court to do so. That is to say, the above condition is still in force as between the lessors and the trustee
in bankruptcy. The purchaser, Brown, took the leasehold
estate subject to all of the terms, covenants and conditions
of the lease. Kew v. Trainor, 150 Illinois, 150.
The lease contains no provision for its forfeiture in the event
of the bankruptcy of the lessee, therefore Brown's bankruptcy
was not a violation of any of the provisions of the lease. Nor
was the passing of Brown's title to his trustee in bankruptcy
a violation of any of the provisions of the lease relating to an
assignment or sale of it, because this passing of the title to the
trustee was accomplished not by a voluntary assignment nor
by a sale under execution or other legal process, but solely by
force of the bankrupt act, § 70a and therefore the lessors had
no right to forfeit the lease in the hands of the trustee. Watson v. Merrill, 14 Am. Bank. Rep. 453, 458; In re Curtis, 9
Am. Bank. Rep. 286; In re Pennewell, 9 Am. Bank. Rep. 490;
Farnumv. Heffner, 79 California, 575.
But since, as has been shown, Brown held the leasehold
estate subject to all of the terms, covenants and conditions
of the lease, which made it liable to be forfeited in the event
of its sale under legal process without the written consent of
the lessors, and since the title of the trustee in bankruptcy. is
the same as that of the bankrupt, Brown, it follows that the
trustee holds the title to the leasehold estate subject to all
of the terms, covenants and conditions of the lease, and a
sale of it by him under legal process without the lessors' written
consent will make it liable to be forfeited in the hands of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

purchaser at such a sale.

210 U. S.

York Mg. Co. v. Cassell, 201 U. S.

344; Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516; Hewit v. Berlin
Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296; Bankruptcy Act, § 70a.
Mr. Province M. Pogue and Mr. Walter A. De Camp for appellee:
If the District Court had jurisdiction, then the lessors have
lost their right of forfeiture, if a sale is made by the trustee in
these proceedings, by reason of the action instituted by the
lessors, the appellants, in the Superior Court-of Cincinnati, in
which the leasehold estate of Kueny was sold at public auction
.without limit or reserve by that court to Brown, the bankrupt,
who took possession and paid rent. Dumpor's Case, 4 Coke,
119; S. C., 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 95, 117; Taylor on Landlord and Tenant, §§ 287, 497, 498; Murray v. Harway, 56 N. Y.
339; Lloyd v. Crispe, 5 Taunton, 249, 253; McGlynn v. Moore,
25 California, 384; Deaton v. Taylor, 90 Virginia, 219, 295;
Conger v. Duryea, 90 N. Y. 599; Brumell v. Macpherson, 14
Ves. Jr. 175, 176.
After the receiver in bankruptcy took hold, after the trustee
had been chosen by the creditors and qualified, after the
trustee had elected to take absolutely the leasehold estate for
the purposes of sale, and after these very proceedings had been
instituted to quiet the title preparatory to a sale, the lessors
received rent from the bankrupt estate through Williams,
trustee, without objection. Thereby they waived their right
of forfeiture, and the trustee can sell free from such right of
forfeiture. Taylor on Landlord & Tenant, §§ 497, 498; Wilder
v. Eubank, 21 Wend. 587; Garnhart v. Finney, 40 Missouri,
449; The Elevator Case, 17 Fed. Rep. 200; Warner v. Cochran,
128 Fed. Rep. 553; Hasterlik v. Olson, 75 N. E. Rep. 1002
(Illinois); Fleming v. F. H. Co., 61 Atl. 157.
There is no provision in the lease for a right of forfeiture by
reason of a sale in bankruptcy, and, therefore, even though
all other provisions of the lease were preserved, this sale would
not entitle them to forfeit if the trustee sold.

GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

By a person being declared a bankrupt, under the terms of
the lease, whose provisions have been heretofore quoted, the
lease is not forfeited. In re Ells, 98 Fed. Rep. 967.
Under the foregoing decision the court says there is no distinction between the old bankruptcy law and the new bankruptcy law on this subject. While there is a diversity of
opinion on this subject, the weight of authority seems to be
that the lease is not terminated, unless the trustee does not
desire to hold it as a part of the estate or unless the landlord
has the property turned over to him voluntarily, either through
his own act'or the act of the trustee. In re Pennewell, 119
Fed. Rep. 139 (C. C. A.); Loveland on Bankruptcy, 165 and
authorities cited therein; In re Houghton, 1 Lowell, 554; Farnum v. Heffner, 79 California, 580; Smith v. Putman, 3 Pickering, 221; Doe v. Bevan, 3 M. & S. 353; The Elevator Cases, 17
Fed. Rep. 200; Gregg v. Landis, 21 N. J. Eq. 494, 501.
after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

The passage of the lessee's estate from Brown, the bankrupt,
to Williams, the trustee, as of thb date of the adjudication,
was by operation of law and not by the act of the bankrupt,
nor was it by sal6. The condition imposed forfeiture if the
lessee assigned the lease or the lessee's interest should be sold
under execution or other legal process without lessors' written
consent..
A s'ale by the trustee for the benefit of Brown's creditors
was not forbidden by the condition and would not be in breach
thereof. It would not be a voluntary assignment by the lessee,
nor a sale of the lessee's interest, but of the trustees' interest
held under the bankruptcy' proceedings for the benefit of
creditors. Jones in his work on Landlord and Tenant lays it
down (§466) that "an ordinary covenant against subletting
-and assignment is not broken by a transfer of the leased
premises by operation of law, but the covenant may be so

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

drawn as to expressly prohibit such a transfer, and in that case
the lease would be forfeited by an assignment by operation
of law." The covenant here is not of that character.
The doctrine of Dumpor's Case, 4 Rep. 119; S. C., 1 Smith's
Leading Cases, *85, is that a condition not to alien without
license is determined by the first license granted, and District
Judge Thompson expressed the opinion that it was applicable
here, and that the sale to Brown, under the order of the Superior Court of Cincinnati entered on the petition of these
lessors for the recovery of rent, set the leasehold free from the
forfeiture clauses, especially as that court did not direct that
the sale be subject to the terms, covenants and conditions of
the lease, as prayed for in the petition. Moreover the lessors,
in their answer in these proceedings, stated that "said lease
and the premises thereby leased passed into the possession
of Harry D. Brown, the bankrupt herein, without the written
consent of said lessors, but with their acquiescence only, and
that said condition in said lease is still in full force and effect
as against said Harry D. Brown and his trustee in bankruptcy
herein."
In respect of the lessors Brown may be treated, then, as if
he were the original lessee, and the sale by- his assignee in
bankruptcy, under order of the bankruptcy. court, was not a
breach of the condition in question. The language of Bayley, J., in Doe. v. Bevan, 3 M. & S.353, cited by the Court of
Appeals, is applicable.
The ptemises in question in this case, being a public house,
were demised by Goodbehere to one Shaw for a term of years,
and Shaw covenanted that he, his executors, etc., should not
nor would during the term assign the indenture, or his or their
interest therein, or assign, set or underlet the messuage and
premises, or any part thereof, to any person or persons what-.
soever, without the consent in writing of the lessor, his executors, etc. 'Proviso, that in case Shaw, his executors, etc.,
should part with his or their interest in the premises, or any
part thereof, contrary to his covenant that the lessor might

GAZLAY v. WILLIAMS.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

reenter. Afterwards Shaw deposited this lease with Whitbread & Company as a security for the repayment of money
borrowed of them; and, becoming bankrupt, and his estate
and effects being assigned by the commissioners to his assignees,
the lease was, upon the petition of Whitbread & Company,
directed by the Lord Chancellor to be sold in discharge of their
debt, and was, accordingly, sold to the defendant, and, without the consent of Goodbehere, assigned to the defendant by
the assignees, and he entered, etc. The trial judge ruled that
this was not a breach of the proviso not to assign without
consent, etc., inasmuch as the covenant did not extend to
Shaw's assignees, they being assignees in law; wherefore he
directed a nonsuit. The rule to set aside the nonsuit .was discharged on argument before Lord Ellenborough' C. J.; LeBlanc, J.; Bayley, J., and Danforth, J. (delivering concurring
opinions), and Bayley, J., said:
"It has never been considered that the lessee's becoming
bankrupt was an avoiding of the lease within this proviso;
and if it be not, what act has the lessee done to avoid it? All
that has followed upon his bankruptcy is not by his act, but
by the operation of law transferring his property to his assignees. Then shall the assignees have capacity to take it, and yet
not to dispose of it. Shall they take it only for their own
benefit, or be obliged to retain it in their hands to the prejudice
of the creditors, for whose benefit the law originally cast it
upon them? Undoubtedly that can never be."
Decree Affirmed.
VOL. cCx-4

