KEALOHA v. CASTLE.
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

the proof which was so offered on behalf of the Divide tended,
when unexplained, to show that the location of the South
Mountain was not made in good faith, and that the claim had
actually been abandoned when Farrell made his location. The
Supreme Court of Utah should therefore have remanded the
cause, so that it might be determined whether or not the
South Mountain had been abandoned by the locators of that
claim when Farrell made his location; and error was therefore
committed in entering judgment in favor of Lockhart, the administrator of Rhodin, decreeing to him possession of the
ground in controversy.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Utah must therefore
be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.

KEALOHA v. CASTLE.
APPEAL

FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
HAWAII.
No. 230. Submitted April 28, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The courts of Hawaii having prior to the annexation construed the statute
of May 24, 1866, legitimatizing children born out of wedlock by the subsequent marriage of the parents as not applicable to the offspring of
adulterous intercourse, and the organizing act of the Hawaii territory
having continued the laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with the Constitution or laws of the United States, this court adopts the construction of
the Hawaiian statute given by the courts of that country.
While in different jurisdictions statutes legitimatizing children born out of
wedlock by the subsequent marriage of the parents have been differently
construed as to the application thereof to the offspring of adulterous
intercourse, in construing such a statute of a Territory this court will
lean towards the interpretation of the local court.
The construction of a statute affixed thereto for many years before territory
is acquired by the United States should be considered as written into the
law itself. ,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

An ex parte and uncontested proceeding construing a statute and directing
payments in accordance with such construction cannot be pleaded as
res judicata in a subsequent contested proceeding.
17 Hawaii, 45, affirmed.

By the last will of Joshua R. Williams, duly admitted to
probate by the proper court of the Hawaiian Islands on July 30,
1879, William R. Castle, the appellee, was appointed trustee
to collect and manage the estate of said Williams. After the
decease of Williams, Castle duly qualified and entered upon
the performance of the trust. He was charged with the duty
of paying the income of the estate to named beneficiaries
during life, and on the decease of any of such beneficiaries the
share was to be paid to the children, and the distributioi. of
the principal of the estate was postponed to a remote period.
One of the named beneficiaries was a son, John. He married,
and his wife bore him a son, Othello. While John was living
in lawful wedlock another woman bore him two children, Annie,
born in 1879, and a son, Keoni, born in 1883. Some years
subsequent to 1883, his first wife having died, John married
the mother of his two illegitimate children. John died about
1891, leaving his second wife surviving him, as also the child
Othello by the first wife and the two illegitimate children referred to. One of these, Annie, married one Kealoha, and in
1905, after she and her brother Keoni had reached their majority, they filed in the Circuit Court of the First Judicial Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, a bill against Castle for an accounting, in which substantially, the facts above stated were set
forth. It was also averred that although, on an application
by the trustee, he had in 1891 been instructed by a justice of
the court to make payment to the said Annie and Keoni of
their shares, on the theory that they had been legitimated by
the marriage of their parents, the trustee had ceased to make
said payments and denied that they were entitled to receive
-any portion of the income or to share in the principal of the
estate. It was prayed that, the trustee might be ordered to
render an account and be compelled to make payment of the

KEALOHA v. CASTLE.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

portion of the income to .which it might appear the petitioners
were entitled. A demurrer was filed to the bill, and the question whether the demurrer should be sustained was reserved
to the Supreme Court of the Territory, it being stated in the
certificate that the following question of law was raised by the
demurrer, upon which the court was in doubt, viz:
"Whether or not said demurrer should be sustained or overruled, which involves the construction of section 2288, Revised
Laws of Hawaii, and its application to the facts as alleged in
the bill herein; that is to say, were the petitioners made legitimate by the marriage of their parents subsequent to their
birth and thereby rendered capable of inheriting from their
father, J. R. Williams, deceased."
The Supreme Court held that the -demurrer ought to be
sustained, and upon remittitur the Circuit Court entered a
decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the petition with
costs. This decree having been affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the Territory, the case was brought here by appeal.
17 Hawaii, 45.
Annie Kealoha and Keoni Williams, appellants, for themselves.
Mr. A. G. M. Robertson and Mr. David L. Withington for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignments of error assailing the action of the Supreme
Court of the Territory propound two questions for our consideration:
1. Was it error to hold that, as the appellants were the issue
of an adulterous relation between their father and mother at
a time when the father was the lawful -husband of another,
they were not made legitimate by the marriage of their father

152

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of theCourt.

210 J.

hnd mother after the death of their father's first lawful wife,
and by force of the statutes of Hawaii?
2. Was it error to hold that the instruction given to the
appellee in 1891, to make paymlnt to the appellants of a portion of the income of the trust property, the title to which is
in dispute, in this suit, on the theory that they had become
legitimate by the subsequent intermarriage of their parents,
did not make the matters in dispute res judicata during the
entire administration of the said trust property?
As to the first question. The law in force at the time of the
death of the testator Williams, in 1879, which,.on the marriage
of the parents, legitimated children born out of lawful wedlock
was passed on May 24, 1866 by the legislative assembly of the
Hawaiian Islands, and appears as the first statute in the session laws for 1866-67. It is also contained in Comp. Laws,
1884, p. 427, and Civil Laws of 1897, § 1876. The statute was
carried into the Revised Laws of 1905 as § 2288, in similar
phraseology, and reads as follows:
"All children born out of wedlock are hereby declared legitimate on the marriage of the parents with each other, and are
entitled to the same rights as those born in wedlock."
In the year 1880, in Kekula v. Pioeiwa, 4 Hawaii, 292, the
proper interpretation of the act of 1866 was directly involved.
The action below was in ejeetment. Plaintiff was the issue of
a woman by a man not her husband, he being then married to
another. The wife having died, the father married the mother
of the plaintiff. The right of the plaintiff to recover depended
upon the fact of his constructive legitimacy. It was held, however, that the act of 1866 did not apply to the case of an adulterous intercourse, and that the offspring of such intercourse
could not inherit from the father. While it was observed in
the opinion that to enforce a contrary doctrine would be opposed to good morals, it is plain that the conclusion reached
was that the statute was adopted by the legislative department
of the Hawaiian government with the intention that it should,
have the restricti'4 effect given to it by the court. In other

REALOHA v. CASTLE.
21o U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

words, it was decided that the statute should not be broadly
construed, as was claimed on behalf of the plaintiff. The statute was not afterwards modified, the decision in the Kekula
case has never been disapproved or doubted by the court which
rendered it, it has undoubtedly become a rule of property,
and was followed in the instant case. On the coming of the
Hawaiian Islands under the sovereignty of the United States
this statute was in force, with the construction given to it by
the highest court of the country, and its continued enforcement was in effect ordained by the organic act, which, in § 6,
provided, "That the laws of Hawaii, not inconsistent with
the Constitution or laws of the United States or the provisions
of this act, shall continue in force, subject to repeal or amendment by the legislature of Hawaii or the Congress of the United States."
In Kentucky, in 1887 (Sams v. Sams, 85 Kentucky, 396,
where the facts were somewhat similar to those in the instant
case), it was held:
"Legislation admitting illegitimate children to the right of
succession is undoubtedly in derogation of -the common law,
and should be strictly construed, and hence it has generally
been held that laws permitting such children, whose parents
have since married, to inherit, do not apply to the fruits of an
adulterous intercourse."
In other jurisdictions, however, statutes of similar character
have been given a broad construction, and where exceptions
have not been stated none have been implied. Brewer v.
Blougher, 14 Pet. 178; Hawbecker v. Hawbecker, 43 Maryland,
510; Ives v. McNicolU, 59 Ohio St. 402. And see Carroll v.
Carroll,20 Texas, 732; Munson v. Palmer, 8.Allen, 551; Adams
v. Adams, 36 Georgia, 236; State v. Lavin, 80 Iowa, 556. But,
under the circumstances to which we have hitherto called
attention, we do not think we may enter into a consideration
of these conflicting decisions. Even in the case of a law adopted
by an organized Territory of the United States at a time when
it was subject to the control of Congress, the rule is that we

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

will lean towards the interpretation of a local statute adopted
by the local court, and that where a statute of a Territory has
been in existence for a considerable time, and been construed
by the highest court of the Territory, even apart from its reenactment, weight attaches to the construction given by the
local court. Copper Queen Mining Co. v. Arizona Territory,
206 U. S. 474. The case at bar, however, more cogently calls
upon us not to disregard the construction given to the statute
by the highest court of Hawaii. Here the law in question was
passed while Hawaii was an independent government, and its
meaning was declared by the court of last resort of that government, and, as we have said, that law is thus construed was
given recognition by the organic act. The subject with which
the law deals, the rights which may have come into existence
during the more than forty years in which the statute has been
in force, admonish us that we may not overthrow the meaning
given by the court of last resort of Hawaii, and which has
prevailed for so many years. Indeed, as the construction
affixed to the statute many years before the islands were acquired was final, in effect that construction had entered into
the statute at the time of acquisition and must by us be considered as if written in the law.
As to the question of res judicata. It was averred in the petition in the Circuit Court as follows:
"IV. That in the year 1891 the said respondent, being uncertain as to the propriety of paying over to the said children,
or to any one in their behalf, their share or any portion of the
income of the estate of said J. R. Williams, deceased, applied to
the Supreme Court in probate, said court at that time having
jurisdiction at chambers in matters of probate, for instructions
as to the standing of said children, and that he was instructed
and authorized by the Honorable Richard F. Bickerton,
one of the justices of said court, to make payment to the
said children on the theory that they had become legitimate
by the subsequent intermarriage of their parents, and that
thereafter said respondent, as trustee, duly made such pay-

BOSTON & MAINE R. R. v. GOKEY.
210 U.S.

Syllabus.

ments to said Kahalauaola, the mother of said children, in
their behalf, until within a year or two past, since which time
respondent has utterly refused to make payments to the said
children, or either of them, or to any one in their behalf, claiming that they were not, and are not now, entitled to receive
any portion of the income, or to share in the principal of the
said estate of J. R. Williams, deceased."
These averments cannot bear any other construction than
that the application referred to was an ex parte proceeding.
The Circuit Court of the Territory, we think, correctly disposed
of the claim of res judicata by the following ruling:
"As to the instruction by Mr. Justice Bickerton, it does not
appear that any notice was given of the proceedings, or that
there was any contest or issue made concerning the legitimacy
of children."
Affirmed.

BOSTON AND MAINE RAILROAD v. GOKEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 198.

Argued April 14, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

A defendant defeated on the merits after having specially assailed the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court because of defective writ and service is
not bound to bring the jurisdictional question directly to this court on
certificate under § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891; he may take the entire
,case to the Circuit Court of Appeals and on such appeal it is the duty of
that court to decide all questions in the record; and, if jurisdiction was
originally invoked for diversity of citizenship, the decision would be final
except as subject to review by this court on certiorari.
Where the Circuit Court of Appeals has refused to decide a question, this
court may either remand with instructions, or it may render such judgment as the Circuit Court of Appeals should have rendered, and where
the new trial would, as in this case, involve a hardship on the successful
party, it will adopt the latter course.
Where, under §§ 914, 918, Rev. Stat., the Circuit Court has adopted a rule
of practice as to form and service of process in conformity with the state

