ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 281
Syllabua.

210 U. S.

ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND SOUTHERN RAIL-'
WAY COMPANY v. TAYLOR, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS.
No. 201.

Argued April 14, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

Each State may, subject to restrictions of the Federal Constitution, deter-'
mine the limit of the jurisdiction of its courts, and the decision of the
highest court sustaining jurisdiction although the cause of action arose,
outside the border of the State is final and does not present a Federal
question.
The provision in § 5 of the Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat.
531, referring it to the American Railway Association and the Interstate
Commerce Commission to designate and promulgate the standard height
and maximum variation of draw bars for freight cars is not unconstitutional as a delegation of legislative power. Butifild v. Stranahan, 192
U. S. 470.
Under the-Safety Appliance Act of 1893, 27 Stat. 531, the center of the draw
bars of freight cars used on standard guages shall be, when the cars are'
empty, thirty-four and a half inches above the rails, and the statute per-'
mits when a car is loaded or partly loaded a maximum variation in the
height downwards of three inches. The statute does not require that the
variation shall be proportioned to the load or that a fully loaded car shall
exhaust the entire variation.
An instruction that under the statute the draw bars of fully loaded freight
cars must be of a uniform height of thirty-one and a half inches and that
a variation between two loaded cars constitutes negligence under the
statute is prejudicial error.
court to review judgAlthough the constitutional grant of power to this
ments of the state courts may be wider than the statutory grant in § 709,
Rev. Stat., the. jurisdiction of the court extends only to the cases enumerated in that section.
The denial by the state court to give to a Federal statute the construction
.insisted upon by a party which would lead to a judgment in his favor is
a denial of a right or immunity under the laws of the United States and
presents a Federal question reviewable by this court under § 709,
Rev. Stat.
It is only by reviewing in this court the construction given by the state
courts to Federal statutes that a uniform construction of such statutes
throughout all, the States can be secured.
The Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 -Stat. 531, supplants the
common-law rule of reasonable care on the part of the employer as to
providing the appliances defined and specified therein, and imposes upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

interstate carriers an absolute duty; and the common-law rule of reasonable care is not a defense where in point of fact the cars used were
not equipped with appliances complying with the standards established
by the act.
The courts have no responsibility for the justice or wisdom of legislation.
They must enforce the statute, unless clearly unconstitutional, as it is
written, and when Congress has prescribed by statute a duty upon a
carrier the courts cannot avoid a true construction thereof simply because such construction is a harsh one.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon was on
the brief, for plaintiff in error:
A Federal question was presented when plaintiff in error
moved at the close of all the testimony in the case for a verdict
in its favor on the ground that Congress had not passed a
valid law requiring railroads engaged in interstate commerce
to equip their cars with couplers of uniform and. standard
height.
Congress alone has the power to provide" for uniform and
standard height of draw bars; this power is exclusively in the
Congress,- and cannot be delegated to any other association,
commission or agency. When it came to making provision for
uniform and standard height of draw bars it was the duty of
Congress to ascertain from any source it desired. to use-the
American Railway Association-the Interstate Commerce Commission-the Master Car Builders' Association-or any number of those railway managers who may be found in any State
of the Union-what that uniform and standard height should
be, and then provide by specific enactment for its establishment, just as it did with regard to automatic couplers, air
brakes, train brake system and grab-irons. Having failed to
do this, this provision has fallen entirely outside 'the congressional enactment, and is no more enforcible in the courts than
if the subject had never engaged the attention of the Congress
at all. See Cooley on Cdnst. Lim.' (5th ed.), 139; 1 Dillon on
Mun. Cor. (4th ed.), § 44; Barto v. Himrod, 8 N. Y. 483

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 283
210 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The first instruction given by the trial court and finally approved by the Supreme Court of Arkansas presents a very
erroneous interpretation of 'what is meant by uniform and
standard height of draw bars.
It appears that all railroad men clearly understand what
was meant by uniform and standard height and what it referred to and what provisions had been made to maintain it,
and yet with all of this testimony in this record, the trial court
and the Supreme Court of Arkansas interpreted the act entirely and radically different from the interpretations placed
upon it by the American Railway Association and the Interstate Commerce Commission and by all the railway employ6s
who testified in this case. This erroneous interpretation of
the act was prejudicial to the plaintiff in error.
The court should have given the instruction contained in defendant's request No. 23, because a reasonable construction,
of the Safety Appliance Act is that if the railroad company
equipped all its cars with uniform and standard height draw
bars when such cars were first built and turned out of the
shops, then that thereafter the defendant is only bound to use
ordinary care to maintain such draw bars at the uniform and
standard height mentioned in the testimony.
Mr. Sam R. Chew, for defendant in error, submitted:
There is no Federal question presented by this record and
this court has, therefore, no power to review the judgment of
the state court herein. Snell v. City of Chicago et al., 152 U. S.
193, 195; Miller v. Swann, 150 U. S.132; Eustis v. Bowles,
150 U. S. 361; Scudder v. New York, 175 U. S. 32; Columbia Water Power Co. v. Columbia Electric Street Car Co., 172
U. S. 475; Cook County v. Calumet Co., 138 U. S.635; Cameron
v. United States, 146 U. S.533; Kennard v. Nebraska, 186 U. S.
304; FloridaCentral V. Bell, 176 U. S. 321; Blackburn v. PQrtland Mining Co., 175 U. S. 571; Baker v. Baldwin, 187 U. S.
61; Walsh v. Columbus R. Co., 176 U. S.469; Baltimore R. Co.
v. Hopkins, 130 U. S. 210.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

There is no unlawful or unconstitutional delegation of power
in the portion of the Safety Appliance Act involved in this
case. Similar statutes have been frequently held valid. McWhorter v. Pensacola Ry., 192 U. S. 470; State v. C., M. & St.
P. Ry., 38 Minnesota, 281; Dastervignes v. United States, 122
Fed. Rep. 30; Wymand v. Southed, 10 Wheat. 15; Tilley v.
Savannah Ry., 5 Fed. Rep. 641; McCullough v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316; Boyd v. Bryant, 35 Arkansas, 69; Dent v. United
States, 76 Pac. Rep. 455; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649.
Under the Safety Appliance Act it is immaterial whether
the defendant had notice of the defect or had used ordinary
care to prevent this and similar defects from arising. The railroad is liable under the act, unconditionally, for any violation
of its provisions. Carson v. Southern Railway, 194 U. S. 136;
United States v. Atlantic Coast Line Railway Co., 153 Fed. Rep.
918; United States v. Southern Ry., 135 Fed. Rep. 122; United States v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 150 Fed. Rep. 229.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, as administratrix of George W.
Taylor, brought, in the Circuit Court of the State of Arkansas,
this action at law against the plaintiff in error, a corporation
owning and operating a railroad. Damages were sought, for
the benefit of Taylor's widow and next of kin, on account of
his injury and death in the course of his employment as brakeman in the service of the railroad. It was alleged in the complaint that Taylor, while attempting, in the discharge of his
duty, to couple two cars was caught between them and killed.
The right to recover for the death was based solely on the failure of the defendant to equip the two cars which were to be
coupled with such draw bars as were required by the act of
Congress known as the Safety Appliance Law. Act of March 2,
1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531. The defendant's answer denied
that the cars were improperly equipped with draw bars, and
alleged that Taylor's death was the result of his own negligence. At a trial before a jury upon the issues made by the

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 285
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

pleadings there was a verdict for the plaintiff, which was
affirmed in a majority opinion by the Supreme Court of the
State. The judgment of that court is brought here for reexamination by writ of error. The writ sets forth many
assignments of error, but of them four only were relied upon in
argument here, and they alone need be stated and considered.
It is not, and cannot be, disputed that the questions raised
by the errors assigned were seasonably and properly made in
the court below, so as to give this court -jurisdiction to consider them; so no time need be spent on that. But the defendant in error insists that the questions themselves, though
properly here in form, are not Federal questions; that is to
say, not questions which we by law are authorized to consider
on a writ of error to a state court. For that reason it is contended that the writ should be dismissed. That contention
we will consider with each question as it is discussed.
The accident by which the plaintiff's intestate lost his life
occurred in the Indian Territory, where, contrary to the doctrine of the common law, a right of action for death exists.
The cause of action arose under the laws of the Territory, and,
was enforced in the courts of Arkansas. The plaintiff in error
contends that of such a cause, triable as it was in the courts
of the Territory created by Congress, the courts of Arkansas
have no jurisdiction. This contention does not present a
Federal question. Each State may, subject to the restrictions of the Federal Constitution, determine the limits of the
jurisdiction of its courts, the character of the controversies
which shall be heard in them, and specifically how far it will,
having jui isdiction of the parties, entertain in its courts transitory actions where the cause of action has arisen outside its
borders. Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 207 U. S. 142.
We have, therefore, no authority to review the decision of the
state court, so far as it holds that there was jurisdiction to.
hear and determine this case.. On that.question the decision
of that court is final.
The next question presented requiresan examination 9f the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of thp Court.

210 U. S.

0

act of Congress, upon which the plaintiff below rested her
right to recover. Section 5 of the Safety Appliance Law is as
follows, 27 Stat. 531:
"Within ninety days from the passage of this act the American Railway Association is authorized hereby to designate
to the Interstate Commerce Commission the standard height
of draw bars for freight cars, measured perpendicular from
the level of the tops of the rails to the centers of the draw bars,
for each of the several gauges of railroads in use in the United
States, and shall fix a maximum variation from such 'standard
height to be allowed between the draw bars of empty and
loaded cars. Upon their determination being certified to the
Interstate Commerce Commission, said Commission shall at
once give notice of the standard fixed upon to all common
carriers, owners or lessees engaged in interstate commerce in
the United States by such means as the Commission may deem
proper. But should said association fail to determine a standard as above provided, it shall be the duty of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to do so before July first, eighteen
hundred and ninety-four, and immediately to give notice
thereof as aforesaid. And after July first, eighteen hundred
and ninety-five, no cars, either loaded or unloaded, shall be
used in interstate traffic which do not comply with the standard above provided for."
The action taken in compliance with this law by the American
Railway; Association, which was duly certified to and promulgated by the Interstate Commerce Commission, was contained
in the following resolution, June 6, 1893-Int. Com. Comm.
Rep. for 1893, pp. 74, 263:
"Resolved, that the standard height of draw bars for freight
cars, measured perpendicular from the level of the tops of the
rails to the centers of the draw bars, for standard gauge railroads in the United States, shall be thirty-four and one-half
inches, and the maximum variation from such standard heights
to be allowed between the draw bars of empty and loaded
cars shall be three inches.

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 287
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

"Resolved, that the standard height of draw bars for freight
cars, measured perpendicular from the level of the tops of the
rails to the centers of the draw bars, for the narrow gauge
railroads in the United States, shall be twenty-six inches, and
the maximuni variation from such standard height to be allowed between the draw bars of empty and loaded cars shall
be three inches."
It is contended that there is here an unconstitutional delegation of legislative power to the Railway Association and to
the Interstate Commerce Commission. This is clearly a Federal question. Briefly stated, the statute enacted that after
a date named only cars with draw bars of uniform height
should be used in interstate commerce, and that the standard
should be fixed by the Association and declared by the Commission. Nothing rjeed be said upon this question except that
it was settled adversely to the contention of the plaintiff in
error in Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470, a case which in
principle is completely in point. And gee Union Bridge Co. v.
United States, 204 U. S. 364, where the cases were reviewed.
Before proceeding with the consideration of the third assignment of error, which arises out of the charge, it will be
necessary to set forth the course of the trial and the state of
the evidence when the cause came to be submitted to the jury.
This is done, not for the purpose of retrying questions of fact,
which we may not do, but first to see whether the question
raised was of a Federal nature, and second, to see whether
error was committed in the decision of it. Taylor was a brakeman on a freight train, which had stopped at a station for the
purpose of leaving there two cars which were in the middle of
the train. When this was' done the train was left in two parts,
the engine and several cars attached making one section and
the caboose with several cars attached making the other.
The caboose and its cars remained stationary, and the cars
attached to the engine were "kicked" back to make the coupling. One of the cars to be coupled had an automatic coupler
and the other an old-fashioned link and pin coupler. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

part of the law which requires automatic couplers on all cars
was not then in force. In attempting to make the coupling
Taylor went between the cars and was killed. The cars were
"kicked" with such force that the impact considerably injured those immediately in contact and derailed one of them.
One of the cars to be coupled (that with the automatic coupler)
was fully and the other lightly loaded. The testimony on both
sides tended to show that there was some difference in the
height of the draw bars of these two cars, as they rested on
the tracks in their loaded condition, but there was no testimony as to the height of the draw bars if the cars were unloaded, except that, as originally made some years before, they
were both of standard height. But as to the extent of the
difference in the height of the draw bars, as the cars were being
used at the time of the accident, there was a conflict in the
testimony. One witness called by the plaintiff testified that
the automatic coupler appeared to be about four inches lower
than the link and pin coupler. Although another, called also
by the plaintiff, testified that the automatic coupler was one
to three inches higher than the other. That the automatic
coupler was the lower is shown by the marks left upon it by
the contact, which indicated that it had been overriden by
the link and pin coupler, and was testified-to by a witness who
made up the train at its starting point. Two witnesses called
by the defendant testified to actual measurements made soon
after the accident, which showed that the center of the draw
bar of the automatic coupler was thirty-two and one-half inches
from the top. of the rail, and that of the link and pin coupler
thirty-three and one-half inches from the top of the rail. The
evidence therefore, in its aspect most favorable to the plaintiff, tended to show that the fully loaded car was equipped with
an automatic coupler, which at the time was four inches lower
than the link and pin coupler of the lightly loaded car. On
the other hand, the evidence in its aspect most favorable to
the defendant tended to show that the automatic draw bar
of the loaded car was exactly one inch lower than the link and

ST. LOUIS &IRON
210 U.S.

MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 289

Opinion of the Court.

pin draw bar. It was the duty of the jury to pass upon this
confficting evidence, and it was the duty of the presiding
judge to instruct the jury clearly as to the duty imposed upon
the defendant by the act of Congress. Before passing to the
consideration of the charge to the jury we will for ourselves
determine the meaning of that act. We think that it requires
that the center of the draw bars of freight cars used on standard gauge railroads shall be, when the cars are empty, thirtyfour and one-half inches above the level of the tops of the rails;
that it permits, when a car is partly or fully loaded, a variation
in the height downward, in no case to exceed three inches;
that it does not require that the variation shall be in proportion to the load, nor that a fully loaded car shall exhaust the
full three inches of the maximum permissible variation and
bring its draw bars down to the height of thirty-one and onehalf inches above the rails. If a car, when unloaded, has its
draw bars thirty-four and one-half inches above the rails, and,
in any stage of loading, does not lower its draw bars more than
three inches, it complies with the requirements of the law.
If, when unloaded, its draw bars are of greater or less height
than the standard prescribed by the law, or if, when wholly
or partially loaded, its draw bars are lowered more than the
maximum variation permitted, the car does not comply with
the requirements of the law. On this aspect of the case the
presiding judge gave certain instructions and refused certain
instructions, both under the exception of the defendant. The
jury were instructed, the italics being ours:
"I. The act of Congress fixes the standard height of loaded
cars engaged in interstate commerce on standard gauge railroads at thirty-one and one-half inches, and unloaded cars
at thirty-four and one-half inches measured perpendicularly
from the level of the face of the rails to the centers of the draw
bars, and this variation of three inches in height is intended to
allow for the' difference in height caused by loading the car
to the full capacity, or by loading it partially, or by its being
carried in the train when it is empty. Now, the law required
VOL. cCx-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

that the two cars between which Taylor lost his life should be
when unloaded of the equal and uniform height from the level
of the face of the rails to the center of the draw bars of thirtyfour and one-half inches, and when loaded to the full capacity
should be of the uniform height of thirty-one and one-half inches.
Now, if the plaintiff by a preponderance of the evidence shows a
violation of this duty on part of defendant, then this is negligence,
and if the proof by a preponderance also shows that this caused
or contributed to the death of Taylor, then you should find
for the plaintiff, unless it appears by a preponderance of the
evidence that Taylor was wanting in ordinary care for his own
safety, and that this want of care on Taylor's part for his own
safety caused or contributed to the injury and death sued for,
in which latter case you should find for the defendant.
"II. If there was the difference between the height of the center
of the draw bars in the two cars in question, as indicated in the
first instruction,then the question arises whether this differenco
caused or contributed to the injury and death of Taylor sued
for. On that point if such difference existed, and but for its
existence the injury and death of Taylor would not have happened, then such difference is said in law to be an efficient
proximate cause of Taylor's injury and death, although it
may be true that other causes may have co6perated with this
one in producing the injury and death of Taylor, and but for
these other co6perating causes the injury and death of Taylor
would not have ensued. But if such difference in height of
the center of the draw bars as aforesaid actually existed, yet
if the injury and death of Taylor would have ensued just the
same as it did without the existence of such difference in height
of the center of the draw bars, then such difference in the height
of the center of the draw bars is not in law an efficient proximate cause of the injury and death of Taylor."
The clear intendment of these instructions was that the law
required that the draw bars of a fully loaded car should be of
the height of thirty-one and one-half inches, and that if either
df the cars varied from this requirement the defendant bad

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 291
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

failed in the performance of its duty. We find nothing in the
remainder of the charge which qualifies this instruction, and
we think it was erroneous. We should be reluctant to insist
upon mere academic accuracy of instructions to a jury. But
how vitally this error affected the defendant is demonstrated
by the fact that its own evidence showed that the draw bar
of the fully loaded car was thirty-two and one-half inches in
height. Under these instructions the plaintiff was permitted
to recover on proof of this fact alone. From such proof a
verdict for the plaintiff would logically follow. The error of
the charge was emphasized by the refusal to instruct the jury,
as requested by the defendant, "that when one car is fully
loaded and another car in the same train is only partially
loaded, the law allows a variation of full three inches between
the center of the draw bars of such cars, without regard to
the amount of weight in the partially loaded car." This request, taken in connection with the instruction that the draw
bars of unloaded cars should be of the height prescribed by
the act, expressed the true rule, and should have been given.
On the other hand, a request for instructions, which was as
follows, "The court charges you that the act of Congress allows
a variation in height of three inches between the centers of the
draw bars of all cars used in interstate commerce, regardless
of whether they are loaded or empty, the measurement of such
height to be made perpendicularly from the top-of the rail to
the center of the draw bar shank or draft line," contained an
erroneous expression of the law, and was correctly refused.
It is based upon the theory that the height of the draw bars
of unloaded cars may vary three inches, while the act, as we
have said, requires that the height of the draw bars of unloaded
cars shall be uniform.
But we have not the power to correct mere errors in the
trials in state courts, although affirmed by the highest state
. courts. This court is not a general court of appeals, with the
general right to review the decisions of state courts. We may
only inquire whether there has been error'committed in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
"Opinon of the Court.

210 U. S.

decision of those Federal questions which are set forth in
§ 709 of the Revised Statutes, and it is strenuously urged that
the error in this part of the case was not in the decision of any
such Federal question. That position we proceed to examine.
The judicial power of the United States extends "to all cases,
in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of
the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made,
under their authority." Article III, § 2, Constitution. The
case at bar, where the right of action was based solely upon
an act of Congress, assuredly was a case "arising under
.
the laws of the United States." It was settled, once for all
time, in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, that the appellate
jurisdiction, authorized by the Constitution to be exercised
by this court, warrants it in reviewing the judgments of state
courts so far as they pass upon a law of the United States.
It was said in that case (p. 416): "They [the words of the
Constitution] give to the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction in all cases arising under the Constitution, laws, and
treaties of the United States. The words are broad enough to
comprehend all cases of this description, in whatever court
they may be decided;" and it was further said (p. 379): "A
case in law or equity consists of the right of the one party, as
well as of the other, and may truly be said to arise under the
Constitution or a law of the United States, whenever its correct decision depends on the construction of either." But the
appellate jurisdiction of this court must be exercised "with
such exceptions and under such regulations as the .Congress
shall make." Article III, §4, Constitution. Congress has
regulated and limited the appellate jurisdiction of this court
over the state courts by § 709 of the Revised Statutes, and
our jurisdiction in this respect extends only to the cases there
enumerated, even though a wider jurisdiction might be permitted by the constitutional grant of power. Murdock v.
Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 620. The words of that section material here are those authorizing this court to reexamine the
judgments of the state courts "where any title, right, privi-

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 293
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lege, or immunity is claimed under . .
any statute
of . . . the United States, and the decision is against the
title, right, privilege, or immunity specially set up or claimed
under such . . . statute." There can be no doubt that
the claim made here was specifically set up, claimed, and denied in the state courts. The question, therefore, precisely
stated, is whether it was a claim of a right or immunity under
a statute of the United States. Recent decisions of this court
remove all doubt from the answer to this question. McCormick v. Market Bank, 165 U. S. 538; California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362; San Jos6 Land and Water Co. v. San Jos
Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177; Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12; Rector
v. City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S. 405; Illinois Central Railroad v.
McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; Eau Claire National Bank v. Jackman, 204 U. S. 522; Hammond v. Whittredge, 204 U. S. 538.
The principles to be derived from the cases are these: Where
a party to litigation in a state court insists, by way of objection
to or requests for instructions, upon a construction of a statute of the United States which will lead, or, on possible findings of fact from the evidence may lead, to a judgment in his
favor, and his claim in this respect, being duly set up, is denied by the highest court of the State, then the question thus
raised may be reviewed in this court. The plain reason is that
in all such cases he has claimed in the state court a right or
immunity under a law of the United States and it has been
denied to him. Jurisdiction so clearly warranted by the Constitution and so explicitly conferred by the act of Congress
needs no justification. But it may not be out of place to say
that in no other manner can a uniform construction of the
statute laws of the United States be secured, so that they shall
have the same meaning and effect in all the States of the
Union.
It is clear that these principles govern the case at bar. The
defendant, now plaintiff in error, objected to an erroneous construction of the Safety Appliance Act, which warranted on
the evidence a judgment against it, and insisted upon a cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

rect construction of the act, which warranted on the evidence

a judgment in its favor. The denials of its claims were decisions of Federal questions reviewable here.
The plaintiff in error raises another question, which, for the
reasons already given, we think is of a Federal nature. The
evidence showed that draw bars which, as originally constructed, are of standard height, are lowered by the natural
effect of proper use; that, in addition to the correction of this
tendency by general repair, devices called shims, which are
metallic wedges of different thickness, are employed to raise
the lowered draw bar to the legal standard; and that in the
caboose of this train the railroad furnished a sufficient supply
of these shims; which it was the duty of the conductor or
brakeman to use as occasion demanded. On this state of the
evidence the defendant was refused instructions, in substance,
that if the defendant furnished cars which were constructed
with draw bars of, a standard height, and furnished shims to
competent inspectors and trainmen and used reasonable care
to keep the draw bars at a reasonable height, it had complied
with its statutory duty, and, if the lowering of the draw bar
resulted from the failure to ise the shims, that was the negligence of a fellow servant, for which the defendant was not responsible. In deciding the questions thus raised, upon which
the courts have differed (St. Louis & S. F Ry. v. Delk, 158
Fed. Rep. 931), we need not enter into the wilderness of cases
upon the common law duty of the employer to use reasonable
care to furnish his employ6 reasonably safe tools, machinery
and appliances, or consider when and how far that duty may
be performed by delegating it to suitable persons for whose
default the emiployer is not responsible. In the case before us
the liability of the defendant does not grow out of the common
law duty of master to servant. The Congress, not satisfied
with the common law duty and its resulting liability, has prescribed and defined the duty by statute. We have nothing
to do but to ascertain and declare the meaning of a few simple
words in which the duty is described. It is enacted that "no

ST. LOUIS & IRON MOUNTAIN RY. v. TAYLOR. 295
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cars, either loaded or unloaded, shall be used in interstate
traffic which do not comply with the standard." There is no
escape from the meaning of these words. Explanation cannot
clarify them, and ought not to be employed to confuse them
or lessen their significance. The obvious purpose of the legislature was to supplant the qualified duty of the common law
with an absolute duty deemed by it more just. If the railroad
does, in point of fact, use cars which do not comply with the,
standard, it violates the plain prohibitions of the law, and there
arises from that violation the liability to make compensation:
to one who is injured by it. It is urged that this is a harsh
construction. To this we reply that, if it be the true construe-!
tion, its harshness is no concern of the courts. They have no'
responsibility for the justice or wisdom of legislation, and no
duty except to enforce the law as it is written, unless it is
clearly beyond the constitutional power of the lawmaking'
body. It is said that the liability under the statute, as thus.
construed, imposes so great a hardship upon the railroads
that it ought not to be supposed that Congress intended it.
Certainly the statute ought not to be given an absurd or utterly,
unreasonable interpretation leading to hardship and injustice,
if any other interpretation is reasonably possible. But this
argument is a dangerous one, and never should be heeded where
the hardship would be occasional and exceptional. It would
be better, it was once said by Lord Eldon, to look hardship in
the face rather than break down the rules of law. But when
applied to the case at bar the argument of hardship is plausible
only when the attention is directed to the material interest
of the employer to the exclusion of the interests of the employ6
and of the .public. Where an injury happeng through the absence of a safe draw bar there must be hardship. Such an injury must be an irreparable misfortune to some one. If it must
be borne entirely by him who suffers it, that is a hardship to
him. If its burden is transferred, as far as it is capable of
transfer, to the employer, it is a hardship to him. It is quite
conceivable that Congress, contemplating the inevitable hard-

296

OCTO3ER TERM, 1907.
Syllabua

210 U. S.

ship of such injuries, and hoping to diminish the economic loss
to the community resulting from them, should deem it wise to
impose their burdens upon those who could measurably control their causes, instead of upon those who are in the main
helpless in that regard. Such a policy would be intelligible,
and, to say the least, not so unreasonable as to require us to
doubt that it was intended, and to seek some unnatural interpretation of common words. We see no error in this part of
the case. But for the reasons before given the judgment must
be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

concurs in the judgment.

MUNICIPALITY OF PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC APOS,
TOLIC CHURCH IN PORTO RICO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 143.

Argued March 3, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Under the organic act of Porto Rico, March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 77, the legislative assembly has express authority to legislate regarding the jurisdiction and procedure of its courts, and it has been usual for Congress to
give such power to the legislatures of the Territories.
Such legislation was not contrary to the Constitution and was in conformity
with the power conferred by Congress upon the legislative assembly to
regulate the jurisdiction of the courts.
Since April 11, 1899, Porto Rico has been de facto and de jure American
territory, and its history and its legal and political institutions up to the
time of its nnexation will be recognized by this court.
As to our insular possessions the Spanish law is no longer foreign law, and
the courts will take judicial notice thereof so far as it affects those possessions.
The act of legislative assembly of Porto. Rico of March 10, 1904, conferring
jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of Porto Rico for the trial and adjudication of property claimed by the Roman Catholic Church was within
its legislative power.
The general prohibition in the act of July 30, 1886, 24 Stat. 170;, against

territorial legislatures passing special laws does not apply where specific
permission is granted by the organic act of a particular Territory.

