PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

PIERCE v. CREECY, CHIEF OF POLICE OF THE CITY
OF ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 357.

Argued April 20, 21, 1908.-Decided June 1. 1908.

Whether or not the indictment on which the demand for petitioner's surrender for interstate extradition is based charges him with crime within
the requirements of Article IV, § 2, par. 2, of the Federal Constitution,
involves the construction of that instrument, and a direct appeal lies to
this court from the Circuit Court under § 5 of the Judiciary Act of 1891.
While no person may be lawfully extradited from one State to another under Article IV, § 2, par. 2 of the Federal Constitution unless he has been
charged with crime in the latter State, there is no constitutional requirement that there should be anything more than a charge of crime, and an
indictment which clearly describes the crime charged is sufficient even
though it may possibly be bad as a pleading.
The Federal courts cannot, on habeas corpus, inquire into the truth of an
allegation presenting mixed questions of law and fact in the indictment on
which the demand for petitioner's interstate extradition is based; and
qutrre whether it may inquire whether such indictment was or was not
found in good faith.
A Federal court should not, unless plainly required so to do by the Constitution, assume a duty the exercise of which might lead to a miscarriage
of justice prejudicial to the interests of a State.

is an appeal directly to this court from a judgment of
the Circuit Court upon a writ of habeas corpus, remanding the
petitioner, now appellant, to the custody of the respondent, now
appellee. The petition for the writ of habeas corpus alleges that
the petitioner was "imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained of his liberty, at the city of St. Louis, within the district aforesaid, by Edmund P. Creecy, the chief of police of said
.city of St. Louis, in violation of the laws and Constitution of
the United States." There is no dispute about the facts, which,
as they appear in the petition and the return, are as follows.
THIS

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

The Governor of the State of Texas made a requisition upon
the Governor of the State of Missouri, which is as follows:
"To the Governor of the State of Missouri:
"Whereas, it appears by the annexed documents, which are
hereby certified to be authentic, that H. Clay Pierce stands
charged with false swearing, committed in the State of Texas,
and information having been received that the said H. Clay
Pierce has fled from justice and has taken refuge in Missouri.
"Now, therefore, I, T. M. Campbell, Governor of the State
of Texas, have thought proper, in pursuance of the provisions
of the Constitution and laws of the United States, to demand
the surrender of the said H. Clay Pierce as fugitive from justice,
and that he be delivered to G. S. Mathews, who is hereby appointed the agent, on the part of the State of Texas, to receive
H. Clay Pierce.
"Given under my hand and seal of the State, affixed at the
city of Austin, this 11th day of February, A. D. 1907, and of the
independence of the United States of America, the one hundred
and thirty-first, and of Texas the seventy-first year.
"T. M. CAMPBELL, Governor."
To this requisition was attached a certified copy of an indictment against the petitioner. The indictment is as follows:
"In the name and by the authority of the State of Texas.
"The grand jurors of Travis County, in said State, duly empaneled, sworn and charged as such at the September term,
A. D. 1906, of the District Court of said county, in and for the
Fifty-third Judicial District, upon their oaths, in said court,
present: That Henry Clay Pierce, in said county and State, on
or about the 31st day of May, in the year of our Lord nineteen
hundred, and before the presentment of this indictment, did
then and there present himself and make his personal appearance before N. H. Nagle, a duly and legally qualified and acting
notary public within and for the county of Travis and State of
Texas, who was then and there duly authorized by law as such
officer and notary public to administer an oath; and the said

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Henry Clay Pierce, having been duly sworn by the said N. H.
Nagle, acting in her capacity as such officer and notary public,
did then and there unlawfully, deliberately, corruptly and willfully, under the sanction of the oath so legally administered
to him by the said N. H1. Nagle, acting in the capacity aforesaid,
make his voluntary false statement and declaration in writing,
as follows:
"Affidavit.
"The State of Texas, County of Travis:
"I, Henry Clay Pierce, do solemnly swear that I am the
President (President, Secretary, Treasurer or Director) of the
corporation known and styled Waters-Pierce Oil Company,
duly incorporated under the laws of Missouri, on the 29th day
of May, 1900, and now transacting or conducting business in
the State of Texas, and that I am duly authorized to represent
said corporation in making this affidavit, and I do further
solemnly swear that the said Waters-Pierce Oil Company,
known and styled as aforesaid, has not since the 31st day of
January, 1900, created, entered into or become a member of,
or a party to, and was not, on the 31st day of January, 1900,
nor at any day since that date, and is not now, a member of or
a party to any pool, trust, agreement, combination, confederation or understanding with any other corporation, partnership,
in(lividual or any other person 6i association of persons to regulate or fix the price of any article of manufacture, mechanism,
merchandise, commodity, convenience, repair, any product ot
mining, or any article or thing whatsoever, or the price or premium to be paid for insuring property against loss or damage
by fire, lightning, storm, cyclone, tornado, or any other kind of
policy issued by the parties aforesaid; and that it has not entered into or become a member of or a party to any pool, trust,
agreement, contract, combination or confederation to fix or
limit the amount of supply or quantity of any article of manufacture, mechanism, merchandise, commodity, convenience,
repair, or any product of mining, or any article or thing what-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

soever, or the price or premium to be paid for insuring property
against loss or damage by fire, lightning, storm, cyclone, tornado, or any other kind of policy issued by the parties aforesaid; and that it has not issued, and does not own any trust
certificates for any corporation, agent, officer or employ6, or
for the directors or stockholders of any corporation, has nct
entered into, and is not now in any combination, contract, or
agreement with any person or persons, corporation or corporations, or with any stockholders or directors thereof, the purpose
and effect of which said combination, contract, or agreement
would be to place the management or control of such combination or combinations, or the manufactured product thereof, in
the hands of any trustee, or trustees, with the intent to limit
or fix the.price, or lessen the production and sale of any article
of commerce, use or consumption, or to prevent, restrict, or
diminish the manufacture or output. of any such article; that
it has not entered into any conspiracy, defined in the preceding
sections of this act, to form or secure a trust or monopoly in
restraint of trade; that it has not been since January 31, A. D.
1900, and is not now, a monopoly by reason of any conduct on
its part, which would constitute it a monopoly under the provisions of sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, and 11 of this act, and is
not the owner or lessee of a patent to any machinery intended,
used or designed for manufacturing any raw material or preparing the same for market by any wrapping, baling or other
process, and while leasing, renting or operating the same, refuses or fails to put the same on the market for sale; that it
has not issued and does not own any trust certificates, and has
not, for any corporation or any agent, officer or employ6
thereof, or for the directors or stockholders thereof, entered
into, and is not now in any combination, contract or agreement
with any person or persons, corporation or corporations, or
with the stockholders, director or any officer, agent, or employ6 of any. corporation or corporations, the purpose and effect of which combination, contract or agreement would be a
conspiracy to defraud,: as defined in section. 1 of this act, or to

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

create a monopoly, as defined in sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 11
of this act.
"HENRY CLAY PIERCE,

"(President, Secretary, Treasureror Director).
'Subscribed and sworn to before me, a notary public within
and for the county of Travis, this 31st day of May, 1900.

(Signed)

"N. H. NAGLE,
"Notary Public.

"Whereas in'truth and in fact the said Waters-Pierce Oil
Company, mentioned in the above false statement and declaration in writing, had since the 31st day of January, 1900, created,
entered into, and became a member of, and a party to, and was
on the 31st day of January, 19Q0, and on every day since the
31st day of January, 1900, up to and on the 31st day of May,
1900, then and there a member of, and a party to, a pool, trust,
agreement, combination, confederation and undertaking with
other corporations, individuals, and other persons and association of persons, to wit, with the Standard Oil Company of New
Jersey, a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State
of New Jersey, and with all the Standard Oil Companies of the
United States, the names and descriptions of said companies
being to said grand jurors unknown after diligent inquiry, and
with John D. Rockefeller, John D. Archbold, H. H. Rogers and
other individuals and persons whose names and a description
of whom are to said grand jurors unknown after diligent inquiry, to regulate and fix the price of petroleum and all of the
products of petroleum, being articles of manufacture and a
commodity and a convenience and a product of mining and
an article and a thing: and, whereas, in truth and in fact the
said Waters-Pierce Oil Company, hereinbefore mentioned,
had, since the 31st day of .January, 1900, created, entered into
and become a member of, and a party to, and was on the 31st
day of January, 1900, and was on every day since the said 31st
day of January, 1900, up to and on the 31st day of May, 1900,
then and there a member of and a party to a pool, trust, agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1007.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. 9.

ment, combination, confederation and undertaking with other
corporations, individuals, and other persons and association
of persons, to wit, the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey,
a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of New
Jersey, and with all the Standard Oil Companies of the United
States, the names and descriptions of said companies being to
said grand jurors unknown after diligent inquiry, and with
John D. Rockefeller, John D. Archbold, H. H. Rogers and other
individuals and persons whose names and a description of whom
are to said grand jury 'unknown after diligent inquiry, to fix and
limit the amount of supply and quantity of petroleum and all of
the products of petroleum, the said petroleum and all the products of petroleum being articles of manufacture and a commodity and a convenience and a product of mining and an
article and a thing; and whereas in truth and in fact the said
Waters-Pierce Oil Company, hereinbefore mentioned, had
since the 31st day of January, 1900, and on every day since
said 31st day of January, 1900, up to the 31st day of May, 1900,
issued, and did then and on the 31st day of May, 1900, issue
trust certificates to another corporation, to wit, the Standard
Oil Company of New Jersey, hereinbefore described, its agents,
officer and employee, to wit, one J. P. Gruet, and one John D.
Johnson, and other agents, officers and employees of said
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, whose names and descriptions are to said grand jurors unknown, after diligent
inquiry, whereby the said Standard Oil Company of New Jersey then and there became the owner of the majority .of all the
shares of stock of the said Waters-Pierce Oil Company and the
owner of a 'controlling interest in said Waters-Pierce Oil Company, which said false statement, so made as aforesaid by the
said Henry Clay Pierce, was not then and there required by
law, nor made in the course of judicial proceedings. Yet the
same was then and there, nevertheless, willfully and deliberately
made, and was willfully and deliberately false, as he, the said
Henry Clay Pierce, then and there well knew.
"Against the peace and dignity of the State."

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 tJ. S.

Statement of the Case.

To this petition the Governor of Missouri responded by issuing a warrant for the arrest of the petitioner and his delivery
to the agent of the State of Texas
While the respondent held the petitioner in custody upon
this warrant the writ of habeas corpus was issued. The petitioner, after alleging that he was held in custody by the respondent solely by virtue of the warrant issued by the Governor
of Missouri, further alleged in his petition:
"That said restraint, imprisonment, detention and confinement are illegal, and that the illegality thereof consists in this,
to wit:
"First. It is not showvri by any sufficient averments in the
said indictment that the facts stated or opinions expressed
by petitioner in the affidavit set forth in said indictment were
false when the said affidavit was made, and hence the indictment charges no offense under the laws of the State of Texas.
That so far as the averments of the said indictment are concerned, the conclusion, judgment and opinion of petitioner expressed in the affidavit are only alleged to be false in the conclusion, judgment and opinion of the grand jury preferring said
indictment.
"Second. That the affidavit made by your petitioner was in
the form prescribed by an act of the legislature of the State of
Texas, entitled 'An act to prohibit pools, trusts, monopolies
and conspiracies to control business and prices of articles; to
prevent the formation or operation of pools, trusts, monopolies
and combinations of charters of corporations that violate the
terms of this act, and to authorize the institution and prosecution of suits therefor,' which was approved May 25th, 1899,
and became effective January 31st, 1900 (Gen. Laws Texas,
1899, p. 246), and that the language of said affidavit must be
construed and interpreted in connection with the related text
of the act of which it forms a part; that the pools, trusts, coMbinations, conspiracies and monopolies prohibited by said act
were such only as were formed by such natural or artificial legal
entities as were then engaged in business in the State of Texas

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

210 U. S.

and the indictment does not show or charge, that the WatersPierce Oil Company, organized on May 29, 1900, as stated by
petitioner in said affidavit, contrary to the fact stated by your
petitioner in said affidavit, was a member of, or party to, any
pool, trust, agreement, combination, confederation, or understanding with any other corporation, partnership, individual,
or any person or association of persons, then or theretofore
transacting or doing business in the State of Texas, for the purpose of fixing the price or limiting the output or quantity of
any article or thing whatsoever to be sold or marketed in said
State of Texas.
"Third. That no charge of perjury or false swearing could
legally be predicated upon any matter or thing stated in said
affidavit, for the reason that the statements therein contained
are mere expressions of legal conclusions or opinions upon a
state of-facts existent in the belief of the affiant.
"Fourth. The affidavit, being required by law, if false, could
not be false swearing under the laws of the State of Texas.
"Fifth. For that it appears upon the face of the said indictment that more than four years elapsed between the (late of
the commission of the alleged offense and the finding of the said
indictment."
No other grounds of the illegality of the petitioner's imprisonment than these were alleged in the petition.
Mr. Joseph H. Choate and Mr. Joseph H. Choate, Jr., with
whom Mr. Henry S. Priest was on the brief, for appellant:
Where a petition to a Circuit Court of the United States for
a writ of hcbeas corpus raises a question of the construction or
application of the Constitution of the United States, the case
falls within § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, and an appeal may
be taken directly to this court. Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S.
459; Craemer v. Washington, 168 U. S. 124; In re Marmo, 138
Fed. Rep. 201.
In this case the petition distinctly alleged that the detention
of the appellant was in violation of the Constitution of the

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

United States, in that the indictment upon which the extradition proceedings were based did not constitute a "charge
of crime" within the meaning' of Art. IV, §2, stibd. 2 of the
Constitution and therefore did not justify the arrest. This
raised a question of the construction and application of the
Constitution. Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80; Matter of Strauss,
197 U. S. 324, which was the substantial question litigated as
appears from the opinion below, to which the court may and
should refer. Loeb v. Columbia Township, 179 U. S. 472.
The appeal to this court was properly taken and the fact
that a separate appeal Was subsequently taken to the Circuit
Court of Appeals could not affect the jurisdiction of this court,
which had already attached. Columbus Co. v. Crane Co., 174
U. S. 600. Nor could the subsequent appeal constitute a
waiver of this appeal. Pullman Co. v. Central Co., 171 U. S.
138.
The validity of the warrant on which the appellant was
arrested depends upon the substantial sufficiency of the indictment on which it was based. Unless that indictment,
when tested as on motion in arrest of judgment, is capable of
supporting a conviction, the requirements of the Constitution
are not fulfilled and the extradition is unauthorized.
The right of interstate extradition does not exist by comity.
It rests upon Art. IV, § 2, subd. 2, of the Constitution and upon
the legislation of Congress (Rev. Stat. §5278, act of February 12,
1793, c. 7, 1 Stat. 302). Ex pare Morgan, 20 Fed. Rep. 298;
In re Kopel, 145 Fed. Rep. 505. Whenever a State attempts
to exercise the power to extradite, the proceedings must conform to the requirements of the Constitution and of the act
of Congress or they will be unauthorized and void.
The meaning of the words "charged with crime" as used in
the Constitution, is that the person whose surrender is demanded shall have been "charged in due form of law in some
proper judicial proceeding instituted in the State from which
he is a fugitive. This charge is to be the foundation for the
demand and for the warrant of surrender; and it cannot be

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

210 ti. S.

sufficient unless it contain- all the legal requisites for the arrest of the accused and his detention for trial if he were within
the State." Cooley, J., in Princeton Review, January, 1879,
p. 165; Spear on Extradition (2d ed.), p. 376; Ex parte Smith,
3 MacLean, 121; People ex rel. Lawrence v. Brady, 56 N. Y.
182; Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, and cases cited.
The strictly analogous cases where, on habeas corpus, the
release is sought of prisoners held for removal from one judicial distfict of the United States to another, also support the
view above stated. Stewart v. United States, 119 Fed. Rep. 89;
In re Terrell, 51 Fed. Rep. 213; Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S.
249; Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S.20; In re Buell, 3 Dill. 116;
In re James, 18 Fed. Rep. 853; United States v. Brawner, 7
Fed. Rep. 86; In re Dana, 68 Fed. Rep. 886.
The indictment involved in this proceeding was fatally defective.
An indictment alleging merely that the accused made the
statement and that it was false is insufficient, not because of
any mere rule of pleading, but because of the omission to allege the facts inconsistent with the statements, which facts are
part, not merely of the proper statement of the crime, but of
the ,crime itself. In the absence of these facts the allegations
that the statement was false is a mere conclusion of the pleader.
The facts which constitute the truth must, therefore, be distinctly alleged, not because they are a requirement of the indictment as a pleading, but because without them the crime
of false swearing can be shown only by conclusions.
The assignments of perjury or false swearing, moreover,
must not only allege distinctly, and not by way of conclusion,
what the true facts were, but must serve to demonstrate the
falsity of the facts sworn to. If all that the assignments set
out may be true and still be entirely consistent with the truth
of the matter alleged to be false, there can be no substantial
charge of false swearing, since nothing in, the facts alleged
would serve to impeach or destroy the truth of the facts sworn
to by the accused. If the facts alleged to be true by the as-

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

signments of false swearing, and the facts ,sworn to by the
accused are not inconsistent, the indictment is equivalent to
a charge that the accused perjured himself in swearing to statements which were true. The statements alleged to be false
and the statements alleged by the assignment to be true must
in tenor and meaning be inconsistent so that both cannot by
the same tokens of interpretation or inference be true. Reg v.
Whitehouse, 3 Cox, C. C. 86; 2 Bishop's New Crim. Procedure,
§ 918.
The fact that the prime of perjury or false swearing cannot
legally be charged without assignments of falsity sufficient
within the above reasoning, is perfectly established in Texas.
Gabrielsky v. State, 13 Tex. App. 428; Higgins v. State, 38 Tex.
Crim. App. 539; S. C., 43 S. W. Rep. 101 (1898);McMurtry v.
State, 38 Tex. Crim. App. 521; S. C., 43 S. W. Rep. 1010 (Texas,
1885); Morris v. State, 83 S. W. Rep. 1126; Turner v. State,
30 Tex. Crim. App. 691. The indictment fails substantially to
charge the crime of false swearing, because the statements alleged in the indictment to have been falsely sworn to by the
appellant, are not statements of fact, but are expressioiis of
mere opinions, beliefs and conclusions, upon which the crime
of false swearing cannot be predicated.
The assignments of falsity are insufficient. No facts are alleged which are necessarily inconsistent with the statements of
the appellant's affidavit.
The indictment fails to inform appellant of the charge against
him with that degree of reasonable certainty which will enable
him to prepare his defense.
The -indictment discloses upon its face that, at the time it
was filed, the prosecution was barred by the statute of limitations.
The indictment itself discloses the fact that it was not found
in good faith.
The indictment is based upon an affidavit required by law,
which cannot be the subject of a prosecution for the statutory
crime of false swearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

210 U. S.

Mr. F. J. McCord and Mr. Shepard Barclay, with whom
Mr. Thomas T. Fauntleroy was on the brief, for appellee:
There is no Federal question presented by this record. No
one of the defects alleged to exist in the indictment involves
the construction or application of the Constitution or of any
law of the United States; no one of them invokes or asserts any
right, privilege or immunity under the Federal Constitution or
laws. World's Exposition v. United States, 56 Fed. Rep. 657;
Mining Co. v. Hanley, 205 U. S. 233; Car/er v. Caldwell, 200
U. S. 292.
A mere charge of a crime, defined by the criminal law of
a State, formulated upon affidavit before some magistrate,
without indictment by a grand jury, is a sufficient basis for
extradition, under the Federal law. Day v. Inhabitants,8 Allen,
478.
Other cases likewise hold that a charge of crime need not
be by indictment. Ryan v. People, 79 N. Y. 593; Drinkall v.
Spiegel, 68 Connecticut, 441; In re De Giacomo, 7 Fed. Cas.,
p. 366; People v. Garnett, 129 California, 364; Rex v. Maynard,
Russ. & Ry. 240.
Every contention of illegality must be solved by interpretation of Texas law. Who shall make the interpretation? In
the first instance, at least, the courts of that Commonwealth.
The real issue of law is what the duly appointed courts of Texas
hold as to the sufficiency of the indictment. In re Voorhees,
32 N. J. L. 141.
If those courts should err in the interpretation of their local
enactments, the case would not thereby become one of Federal
cognizance, unless in such ruling- (or in the consequences
thereof) some right, privilege, or immunity secured to petitioner by the Federal law was infringed. No such claim appears as yet and if it did, habeas corpus is rather a collateral
method of raising such an issue. The petition for habeas corpus asserts that the indictment is insufficient according to the
Texas law. Perhaps the courts of that State will agree with
the petitioner. The Federal judidiary will not in advance of

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

any Texas interpretation of Texas law, interpose and assume
that duty.. Carler v. Caldwell, 200 U. S. 292; In re Lennon,
150 U. S. 393. See also Ex parte Moebus, 148 Fed. Rep. 39;
Storti v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 142; Spencer v. Silk Co., 191
U. S. 530; Drury v. Lewis, 200 U. S. 1; Empire Co. v. Hanley,
205 U. S. 1.
If jurisdiction here exists, there is still no merit in this appeal.
Where the local court in question has jurisdiction of the
subject-matter of the charge, mere insufficiency in the indictment in alleging facts to support the charge does not warrant
a discharge on habeas corpus.
Whether facts charged in an indictment constitute a crime
under the state statutes, the courts of the State should decide.
It is their province to determine that question if they have
jurisdiction of the subject-matter. In re Belt, 159 U. S. 95;
Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62; Riggins v. United States, 199 U. S.
547; Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425; Ex parte Moran, 144 Fed.
Rep. 594.
The use of habeas corpus (as sought in this case) is a collateral attack on the pending proceeding in the court of Texas,
and is only maintainable if that court has no power to proceed
at all. Ex parte Watkins, 3 Pet. 203; United States v. Pridgeon,
153 U. S. 59; In re Kowalsky, 73 California, 120.
The leading question on this branch of the case is whether
the Texas court has jurisdiction of the offense alleged or of the
charge, whatever may be said as to the sufficiency of the indictment.
If the facts are alleged in such way in the indictment as not
to render the judgment of conviction thereon void on. a collateral attack, then there is no ground to discharge on habeas
corpus-for that only is available where the prisoner is held
without jurisdiction. Benson v. Henkel, 198 U. S. 10; Felts v.
Murphy, 201 U. S. 123; Pierce v. Texas, 155 U. S. 311; Urquhart v. Brown, 205 U. S. 179; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62;
Car/er v.'Caldwell, 200 U. S. 293; In re Lancaster, 137 U. S.
393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY; after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The first inquiry-must be whether there is jurisdiction of this
appeal, which was taken from the Circuit Court directly to this
court. Since the passage of the act establishing the Circuit
Court of Appeals (26 Stat. 826), appeals in habeas corpus cases
from the District and Circuit Courts can only be taken to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, unless they are of the kind specified
in § 5 of the act, wherein a direct appeal to this court is allowed.
In re Lennon, 150 U. S.393. Of the latter class is " any case
that involves the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States." In the case at bar the position of
the appellant is that his detention in custody is unlawful, because the indictment, which is its only excuse, is not a charge
of crime within the meaning of the provision of the Constitution regulating interstate extradition. Art. IV, § 2, par. 2.
The precise and only question to be determined is whether the
indictment constituted such a charge. The decision of this
question requires us to ascertain and declare the meaning of the
extradition clause, and therefore " involves the construction
of the Constitution of the United States." Craemer v. Washington, 168 U. S.124; Boske v. Comingore, 177 U. S.459. And
see Wiley v. Sinkler, 179 U. S.58; Motes v. United States, 178
U. S.458; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S.410. Against this
view it is argued that the question whether this indictment is
good under the laws of Texas brings under consideration only
the laws of that State, and that, as there is no pretense that they
violate the Constitution of the United States, there can be involved no construction or application of that Constitution.
But the answer to this is thatthe laws of Texas are considered
only as they are embraced in the Ultimate inquiry whether the
,indictment constitutes a charge of crime in that State, and for
no other purpose. It is further said by the appellee that the
delivery up in this case was by virtue of state laws only, and
we are invited to determine how far the State may make

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

laws for interstate extradition, independent of, though consistent with, the Federal Constitution. We decline to accept the
,invitation, because in the case at bar the demand of the Governor of Texas, :which was complied with, was expressed to be
"in pursuance of the provisions of the Constitution and laws
of the United States." There is jurisdiction of the appeal.
The Constitution provides that "A Person charged in any,
State with Treason, Felony, or Other Crime, who shall flee from
Justice, and be found in another State, shall on Demand of the
executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the
Crime." No person may be lawfully removed from one State
to another by virtue of this provision, unless: 1, He is charged
in one State with treason, felony or other crime; 2, he has fled
from justice; 3, a demand is made for his delivery to the State
wherein he is charged with crime. If either of these conditions
are absent the Constitution affords no warrant for a restraint
of the liberty of any person. Here the only condition which
.it is insisted is absent is the charge of a crime. The only evi-'
dence of a charge of crime is the indictment, and the contention
to be examined is that the indictment is insufficient proof that
a charge has been made.
The counsel for the petitioner disclaim the purpose of attacking the indictment as a criminal- pleading, appreciating correctly that the point here is not whether the indictment is
good enough, over seasonable challenge, to bring the accused
to the bar for trial. Counsel concede that they, cannot successfully attack the indictment except by showing that it does
not charge a crime. The distinction between these two kinds
of attack, though narrow, is clear. But it -will not do to disclaim the right to attack the indictment as a criminal pleading
and then proceed to deny that it constitutes a charge of crime
for reasons that are apt only to destroy its validity as a criminal
pleading. There must be objections which reach deeper into
the indictment than those which would be good against it in
the court where it is pending. We are unable to adopt the test
VOL , ccx-2Q

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

suggested by counsel, that an objection, good if taken on arrest
of judgment, would be sufficient to show that the indictment
is not a charge of crime. Not to speak of the uncertainty of
such a test, in view of the varying practice in the different
States, there is nothing in principle or authority which supports
it. Of course, such a test would be utterly inapplicable to
cases of a charge of crime by affidavit, which was held to be
within the Constitution. In the Matter of Strauss, 197 U. S. 324.
The only safe rule is to abandon entirely the standard to which
the indictment must conform, judged as a criminal pleading,
and consider only whether it shows satisfactorily that the
fugitive has been in fact, however inartificially, charged with
erime in the State from which he has fled. Roberts v. Reilly,
116 U. S. 80, 95; Pearce v. Texas, 155 U. S. 311, 313; Hyatt v.Corkran, 188 U. S. 691, 709; Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364,
372; Davise's Case, 122 Massachusetts, 324; State v. O'Connor,
38 Minnesota, 243; State v. Goss, 66 Minnesota, 291; Matter of
Voorhees, 32 N. J. L. 141; Ex parte Pearce, 32 Tex. Crim. 301;
In re Van Sciever, 42 Nebraska, 772; State v. Clough, 71 N. H.
594.
Before proceeding further, it is well to set forth all the objections to the indictment made by counsel, in order to see whether,
if any one of them is well founded, it shows that there was no
charge of crime against the-petitioner. For if all criticisms of
the indictment should be approved, and they leave untouched
in the pleading enough to show that the petitioner was charged
with crime in the broad and practical sense in which those
words ought to be understood, the condition prescribed by the
Constitution has been performed. The objections to the indictment which were advanced in the
argument are six in number:
1. The statements in respect to which false swearing is
alleged are not statements of facts but of opinion, and therefore,
however falsely made, cannot amount to the crime of false
swearing.
2. The assignments of falsity are insufficient, for no facts are

PIERCE v. CREECY.
210 U. S.

•Opinion of the Court.

alleged which are necessarily inconsistent with the alleged false
affidavit.
3. The charge is not alleged with the certainty required in an
indictment.
4. Upon the face of the indictment the prosecution is barred
by the statute of limitations.
5. The indictment discloses the fact that it was not found in
good faith.
6. The affidavit was required by law, and therefore, if false,
under the Texas law, lays the foundation for a prosecution for
perjury, but not for false swearing.
The fifth and sixth objections require separate discussion.
We are not informed of any principle by which we may inquire
whether an indictment, duly found, was returned in good faith,
but, whether that power exists or not, it is enough to say here
that this objection does not seem to be true in fact.
Under the Texas law the crime of false swearing, as distinguished from perjury, can only be committed by a false oath to
a voluntary declaration or affidavit, "not required by law or
made in the course of a judicial proceeding." - The sixth
objection asserts that the affidavit set forth in this indictment
was one required by law. But this assertion is in the teeth of
the allegation of the indictment, that the affidavit " was not
then and there required by law nor made in the course of
judicial proceedings." We cannot inquire into the truth of this
allegation, which may present a mixed question of law and
fact.
All the other objections are appropriate to a demurrer or a
motion to quash or in arrest of judgment. They are attacks
upon the indictment as a criminal pleading, the right to
make which counsel expressly renounce. If well founded,
they show that the indictment is bad. But the Constitution
does not require, as an indispensable prerequisite to interstate
extradition, that there should be a good indictment, or even an
indictment of any kind. It requires nothing more than a charge
of crime. Congress, in aid of the execution of the constitutional

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

provision, has enacted a law (§ 5278, Rev. Stat.), directing that
the charge shall be made either by "an indictment found " or
"an affidavit made before a magistrate;" and, as we have
seen, this court has held that such an affidavit is sufficient,
saying (197 U. S. 331), " doubtless the word 'charged' was
used in its broad signification to cover any proceeding which a
State might see fit to adopt, by which a formal accusation was
made against an alleged criminal." But it is obvious that an
objection which, if well founded, would destroy the sufficiency
of the indictment, as a criminal pleading, might conceivably
go far enough to destroy also its sufficiency as a charge of crime.
Are then the objections made to the indictment of that nature?
Let it be assumed that these are all well taken. Let it be
assumed, without decision, that the false statements contained in the affidavit were statements of opinion; that the
assignments of falsity were bad, because no facts necessarily
inconsistent With them were alleged; that the certainty required in criminal pleading was not observed; and that the
time alleged antedates the indictment by more than the
period of the statute of limitations. Nevertheless, the indictment alleges that on a day named the petitioner deliberately and
willfully made, under the sanction of an oath, legally administered, a voluntary false statement and declaration in writing,
to wit, the affidavit, and that the affidavit was not required
by law or made in the course of a judicial proceeding. The
indictment, whether good or bad, as a pleading, unmistakably
describes every element of the crime of false swearing, as it is
defined in the Texas Penal Code, in art. 209, which follows.
" If any person shall deliberately and willfully, under oath or
affirmation legally administered, make a false statement by a
voluntary declaration or affidavit, which is not required by law
or made in the course of a judicial proceeding, he is guilty of
false swearing, and shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not less than two nor more than five years."
This court, in the cases already cited, has said, somewhat
vaguely but with as much precision as the subject admits, that

PAPER BAG PATENT CASE.
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

the indictment, in order to constitute a sufficient charge of
crime to warrant interstate extradition, need show no more
than that the accused was substantially charged with crime.
This indictment meets and surpasses that standard, and is
enough. If more were required it would impose upon courts, in
the trial of writs of habeas corpus, the duty of a critical examination of the laws of States with whose jurisprudence and
criminal procedure they can have only a general acquaintance.
Such a duty would be an intolerable burden, certain to lead to
errors in decision, irritable to the just pride of the States and
fruitful of miscarriages of justice. The duty ought not to be
assumed unless it is plainly required by the Constitution, and,
in our opinion, there is nothing in the letter or the spirit of that
instrument which requires or permits its performance.
Judgment affirmed.

CONTINENTAL PAPER BAG COMPANY v. EASTERN
PAPER BAG COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 202. Argued April 15, 1908.-Decided June 1, 108.
The previous decisions of this court are not to be construed as holding that
only pioneer patents are entitled to invoke the doctrine of equivalents,
but that the range of equivalents depends upon the degree of invention;
and infringement of a patent not'primary is therefore not averted merely
because defendant's machine may be differentiated.
Under § 4888, Rev. Stat., the claims measure the invention, and while the
inventor must describe the best mode of applying the principle of his invention the description does not necessarily measure the invention.
Where both of the lower courts find that complainant did with his machine
what had never been done before and that defendant's machine infringed,
this court will not disturb those findings unless they appear to be clearly
wrong.
Patents are property and entitled to the same rights and sanctions as other
property.

