OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

REUBEN QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP, COMMISSIONER OF
INDIAN AFFAIRS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 569. Argued February 26, 27, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.
A statutory limitation on expenditures of the public funds does not, in the
absence of special provision to that effect, relate to expenditures of treaty
and trust funds administered by the Government for the Indians.
The provisions in the Indian Appropriation Acts of 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898
and 1899 limiting and forbidding contracts for education of Indians in
sectarian schools relate only to appropriations of public moneys raised
by general taxation from persons of all creeds and faith and gratuitously
appropriated and do not relate to the disposition of the tribal and trust
funds which belong to the Indians-in this case the Sioux Tribe-themselves, and the officers of the Government will not be enjoined from
carrying out contracts with sectarian schools entered into on the petition
of. Indians and to the pro rata extent that the petitioning Indians are
interested in the fund.
A declaration by Congress that the Government shall not make appropriations for sectarian schools does not apply to Indian treaty and trust funds
on ,the ground that such a declaration should be extended thereto under
the religion clauses of the Federal Constitution.
35 Washington Law Reporter, 766, affirmed.

appellants filed their bill in equity in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia, alleging that:
"1. The plaintiffs are citizens of the United States, and
members of the Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency,
in the State of South Dakota, and bring this suit in their own
right as well as for all other members of the Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agen y.
"2. The defendants are citizens of the United States and
residents of the District of Columbia, and are sued in this
action as the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the Searetary
of the Interior, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Treasurer of
THE

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the United .States, and the Comptroller of the Tieasury respectively.
"3. That by article VII of the Sioux treaty of April 29,
1868 (15 Stat. 635, 637), continued in force for twenty years
after July 1, 1889, by section 17 of the act of March 2, 1889,
c. 405, 25 Stat. 888, 894-5, the United States agreed that for
every thirty children of the said Sioux tribe who can be induced
or compelled to attend school, a house shall be provided, and
a teacher competent to teach the elementary branches of an
English education, shall be furnished, who will reside among
said Indians and faithfully discharge his or her duties as a
teacher.
"4. That for the purpose of carrying out the above provision of the said treaty during the fiscal year ending June 30,
1906, the following appropriation was made by the act of
March 3, 1905, section 1 (33 Stat. 104$, 1055):
" 'For support and maintenance of day and industrial
schools, including erection and repairs of school buildings in
accordance with article seven of the treaty of April twentynine, eighteen hundred and sixty-eight, which article is continued in force for twenty years by section seventeen of the
act of March second, eighteen hundred and eighty-nine, two
hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars.'
"The fund so appropriated is generally known as the Sioux
treaty fund.
"5. That section 17 of the said act of March 2, 1889, further
provides as follows:
" 'And in addition thereto there shall be set apart out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the
sum of three million dollars, which said sum shall be deposited
in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Sioux
Nation of Indians as a permanent fund, the interest of which,
at five per centum per annum, shall be appropriated, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior to the use of the
Indians receiving rations and annuities upon the reservations
created by this act, in proportion to the numbers that shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

so receive rations and annuities at the time that this act takes
effect, as follows: one-half of said interest shall be so expended
for the promotion of industrial and other suitable education
among said Indians, and the other half thereof in such manner
and for such purposes, including reasonable cash payments per
capita as, in the judgment of said Secretary, shall, from tithe
to time, most contribute to the advancement of said Indians
in civilization and self-support.'
"This fund of three million dollars is generally known as the
o
Sioux trust fund.
"6. That the interest on the said Sioux trust fund is paid
annually by the United States in accordance with the provisions of the second clause of the act of April 1, 1880, c. 41,
21 Stat. 70, reading as follows:
"'And the United States shall pay interest semi-annually,
from the date of the deposit of any and all such sums in the*
United States Treasury, at the rate per annum stipulated by
treaties or prescribed by law, and such payments shall be made
in the usual manner, as .each may become due, without further
appropriation by Congress.'
"7. That the act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, ยง 1, 30 Stat. 62, 79,
contains the following provision:
"'And it is hereby declared to be the settled policy of the
Government to hereafter make no appropriation whatever
for education in any sectarian school.'
"8. That, in violation of the said provision of the act of
June 7, 1897, the said Francis E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs as aforesaid, has made or intends to make, for
and on behalf of the United States, a contract with the Bureau
of Catholic Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., a sectarian
organization, for the care, education, and maintenance, during
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1906, of a number of Indian
pupils of the said Sioux tribe, at a sectarian school on the said
Rosebud Reservation, known as the St. Francis Mission Boarding School, and in the said contract has agreed to' pay or intends to agree to pay to the said Bureau of Catholic Indian

QUICK 1EAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Missions of Washington, D. C., a certain rate per quarter as
compensation for every pupil in attendance at the said school
under the said contract, the said payment (which, as the plaintiffs are informed and believe, will amount to the sum of
twenty-seven thousand dollars), to be made either from the
said Sioux treaty fund 'or from the interest of the said Sioux
trust fund or from both.
"9. That all payments made to the said Bureau of Catholic
Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., under the said contract,
either out of the said Sioux treaty fund or out of the interest
of the said Sioux trust fund, will be payments for education
in a sectarian school, and will be unlawful diversions of. funds
appropriated by Congress, and in violation of the above-recited provision of the act of June 7, 1897, and such payments
will seriously deplete the interest of said Sioux trust fund, to
the great injury of the plaintiffs and all other members of the
said Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency, and will
unlawfully diminish the amount of money which should be
expended out of the said Sioux treaty fund and the interest
of the said Sioux trust fund for lawful purposes, for the benefit
of the said plaintiffs and all other members of the said Sioux
tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency, and will also unlawfully
diminish the cash payments' which the said plaintiffs and all
other members of the said Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency are entitled to receive per capita out of the interest of the said Sioux trust fund.
"10. That the plaintiffs have nevei requested nor authorized
the payment of any part of the said Sioux treaty fund, or of
the interest of the said Sioux trust fund, to the said Bureau
of Catholic Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., or any other
person or organization whatever, for the-education of Indian
pupils of the said Sioux tribe in the said St. Francis Mission
Boarding School, or any other sectarian school whatever, but
have on the contrary protested against any use of either of the
said funds, or the interest of the same, for the purpose of such
education.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

"11. That the plaintiffs have no remedy at law.
"Wherefore the plaintiffs ask relief, as follows:
"I. That a permanent injunction' issue against the said
Francis E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, to restrain
him from executing any contract with the said Bureau of
Catholic Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., or any other
sectarian organization whatever, for the support, education,
or maintenance of any Indian pupils of the said Sioux tribe
at the said St. Francis Mission Boarding School, or any other
sectarian school on the said Rosebud Reservation or elsewhere,
and that a permanent injunction issue against the said Francis E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the said
Ethan Allen Hitchcock, Secretary of the Interior, to restrain
them from paying or authorizing the payment of, either by
themselves or by any of their subordinate officers or agents
whatever, any moneys of either the said Sioux treaty fund or
the interest of the said Sioux trust fund, or any other fund
appropriated, either by permanent appropriation or otherwise for the uses of the said Sioux tribe, to the said Bureau
of Catholic Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., or to any
other sectarian organization -whatever, for the support, education, or -maintenance of any Indian pupils of the said Sioux
tribe, at the said St. Francis Mission Boarding School or any
other sectarian school on the said Rosebud Reservation or
elsewhere."
II. And for a permanent injunction against the drawing,
countersigning and paying "any warrants in favor of the' said
Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions of Washington, D. C., or
any other sectarian organization whatever, for the support,
education, and maintenance of any Indian pupils of the said
Sioux tribe at the said St. Francis Mission Boarding School,
or any other sectarian school on the said Rosebud Reservation
or elsewhere, payable out of any money appropriated, either
by permanent. appropriation or otherwise, for the uses of the
said Sioux tribe."
III. And for general relief.

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

The defendants answered, 1. Admitting "that the plaintiffs
are citizens of the. United States, and members of the Sioux
tribe of Indians, but aver that the said Indians are only nominal plaintiffs, the real plaintiff being the Indian Rights Association, who have had this suit brought for the purpose
of testing the validity of the contract hereinafter referred
to."
2. Admitting "that they are residents of the District of
Columbia, and are sued in this action as Commissioner of Indian
Affairs, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Treasurer of the United States, and the Comptroller of the Treasury, respectively. These defendants, as
officers of the Government of the United States, have no interest in the controversy raised by the bill, except to perform
their duties under the law, and they, therefore, as such officers,
respectfully submit the validity of the contract hereinafter
referred to, and the payments thereunder, to the judgment
of this honorable court. The real defendant in interest is
the 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,' a corporation duly
incorporated by chapter 363 of the Acts of Assembly of Maryland for the year 1894, for the object, inter alia, of educating
the American Indians directly and also indirectly by training
their teachers and others, especially to train their youth to
become self-sustaining men and women, using such methods
of instruction in the principles of religion and of human knowledge as may be best adapted to these purposes.
"As the object of the bill filed is to test the validity'of a contract made between the Commissioner for Indian Affairs and
the said 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,' and the validity
of the payment of the money thereunder, this answer will set
forth the facts and the statutes of the United States under
which it is contended that such contract and the payment of
money thereunder are valid."
This the answer then did at length, and inasmuch as the tase
was submitted on bill and answer with certain statements of
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, it is thought that the an-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

210 U. S.

swer should be given substantially in full as it is in the margin.1
The case was heard on the bill, the answer and "certain
1"3. These defendants admit the allegations of paragraph 3 of the bill,
but the pertinent part of the Sioux treaty of April 29, 1868, is only partially
stated therein. The full statement of that part of the Sioux treaty will be
hereinafter made.
"4. These defendants admit the allegations of paragraph 4 of the bill.
"5. These defendants admit the allegations in paragraph 5 of the bill,
but aver that though the provision from section 17 of the act of March 2,
1889, is correctly stated, as far as it goes, there are other portions of said
act which should be called to the attention of the court, which is accordingly
done hereafter in this answer.
"6. These defendants admit the allegations in paragraph 6 of the bill,
but aver, that although clause 2 of the act of April, 1880, is correctly stated,
as far as it goes, there are other provisions of law to be called to the attention of the court in this connection, which is accordingly done in the subsequent part of this answer.
"7. These defendants admit the allegations in paragraph 7 of the bill,
but aver that, although the provision in the act of June 7, 1897, sec. 1, is
correctly stated as far as it goes, the section is not fully stated, nor are other
parts of the act referred to which bear directly on the question raised by
the bill.
"8. These defendants admit that within the meaning of the acts of Congress the 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions' is a sectarian organization,
and the industrial school known as the 'St. Francis Mission Boarding
School,' on the Rosebud Reservation, is a sectarian school.
"These defendants further say that a contract was made by and between
F. E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, for and on behalf of the United States of America, and the 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,' for
the care, education, and maintenance during the fiscal year ending June 30,
1906, of 250 Indian pupils of the Sioux tribe of Indians, at the industrial
school known as St. Francis Mission Boarding School, on the Rosebud
Reservation, and by such contract it was agreed that there should be paid
to the 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions' twenty-seven dollars ($27)
per quarter for every pupil in attendance, provided there should not be
paid under the contract a sum aggregating more than twenty-seven thousand
dollars ($27,000). This amount, according to the contract, was to be paid
from either or all of the funds of the Sioux tribe of Indians, designated
technically as 'Interest on Sioux Fund,' 'Education Sioux Nation,' and
'Support of Sioux of different tribes, subsistence, and civilization,' all of
which, however, are embraced in the two funds stated in the bill, to wit,
the 'Sioux Treaty Fund,' described in paragraph 4 of the bill and the 'Sioux
Trust Fund,' described in paragraph 5 of the bill.
"This contract has been fully performed by the 'Bureau of Catholic In-

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

proofs, consisting of replies made by the Commissioner of
Indian Affairs to certain questions asked in behalf of the plaintiffs, and also of certain statements in the reports of the
dian Missions' and there is due to it thereunder from the said funds the total
amount of twenty-seven thousand dollars ($27,000) if the said contract was
legally made. This contract was approved by the Acting Secretary of the
Interior, Mr. Jesse E. Wilson, by direction of the President of the United
States, but, by the same direction, no payments have been made under it
in order that the validity of the contract might be determined by the courts,
of the United States. The circumstances under which this contract was
entered into and approved are hereinafter more fully stated.
"These defendants deny the allegation in paragraph 8 of the bill that this
contract was made in violation of the act of June 7, 1897, or in violation -of
any other act of Congress.
"9. These defendants admit that payments under this contract will be
payments for education in a sectarian school, as the term 'sectarian school?
is defined in the acts of Congress, but they deny that said payments will be
in violation of the act of June 7, 1897, and they further deny that such
payments will deplete the interest of said 'Sioux Trust Fund' to the injury
of the plaintiffs and all other members of the said Sioux tribe of Indians of
the Rosebud Agency; and they further deny that such payments will unlawfully diminish the amount of money which should be expended out of
the said 'Sioux Treaty Fund,' and the interest of the 'Sioux Trust Fund'
for lawful purposes for the benefit of the plaintiffs and all other members
of the said Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency; and they further
deny that said payments will also unlawfully diminish the cash payments
which the said plaintiffs and other members of the said Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency are entitled to receive per capita out of the
interest of the said 'Sioux Trust Fund,' as alleged in paragraph 9 of said
bill; all of which will more fully and at large appear by the detailed statements in this answer hereinafter made.
"10. These defendants admit that the plaintiffs, to wit, the three Indians
whose names appear as plaintiffs in the caption of this bill, have never requested or authorized the payment of any part of the Sioux treaty or trust
fund to the said 'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,' or any other person
.or organization whatever for the education of Indian pupils of the said
Sioux tribe in said 'St. Francis Mission Boarding School,' or any other sectarian boarding school whatever, but on the contrary, these defendants admit that the said plaintiffs protest against any use of either of the said
funds, or the interest of the same, for the purpose of such education, as
stated in paragraph 10 of the bill.
"11. But now these defendants further answering say, that although
they have answered in terms all the allegations in all the paragraphs of the
bill contained, it is nccessary for a full understanding of the rights of the
parties, that all the pertinent facts connected with the use of money under

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

Commissioner of Indian Affairs for the years 1895 and 1906, inclusive," and was argued by counsel, aid upon consideration an
injunction was decreed from "paying or authorizing the payment of, either by themselves or by any of their subordinate
the contract of the United States for the education of the Indians in contract schools which are sectarian within the meaning of the acts of Congress
should be stated, so that in the light of all these facts, only a few of which
are stated in the bill, the legality of the contract assailed may be judicially
determined.
"12. The Catholic Missions schools were erected many years ago at the
cost of charitable Catholics, and with the approval of the authorities of the
Government of the United States, whose policy it was then to encourage
the education and civilization of the Indians through the work of religious
organizations. Under the provisions of the act of 1819, ten thousand dollars ($10,06o) were appropriated for the purpose of extending financial help
'to such associations or individuals who are already engaged in educating
the Indians,' as may be approved by the War Department.
"In 1820, twenty-one schools conducted by different religious societies
were given eleven thousand, eight hundred and thirty-eight dollars ($11,838),
and from that date until 1870, the principal educational work in relation to
the Indians was under the auspices of these bodies, aided more or less by
the Government. For a long time the different denominational schools referred to were aided by the Government without any formal contract.
"In 1870, an act of Congress was passed appropriating one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) for the support of Indian schools among Indian tribes not otherwise provided for, i. e., among tribes not having treaty
stipulations providing funds for educational purposes, and these appropriaContracts were made annually with the mistions continued until 187.
sion schools of the different denominations payable out of this appropriation for the education of Indian pupils. As to the tribes having funds for
educational purposes under treaty stipulations, contracts were also made
with the mission schools of the different denominations payable out of the
treaty funds. In 1876, Congress began the general appropriation 'for the
support of industrial schools and other educational purposes for the Indian
tribes,' and these annual appropriations from the public moneys of the
United States have been-from that time until the present. These appropriations always were put in the appropriation acts under the heading
'Support of Schools '-and from these public funds, and, in the discretion
of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, from the tribal funds hereinafter
explained, were paid the amounts due under the contracts made by the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs, with the approval of the Secretary of the
Interior, with the various denominational schools for the education of Indian pupils.
"Some time before 1895 opposition developed to these contracts with denominational schools, on the ground that the public moneys of the United

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

officers or agents whatever, any moneys of the Sioux treaty
fund, referred to in the said bill and answer, appropriated for
the uses of the Sioux tribe of Indians, to the Bureau of Catholic
iDdian Missions, at Washington, D. C., for the support, eduStates raised by taxation should not be used for education in sectarian institutions; and also for other reasons.
"Accordingly there is found in the appropriation act of 1894, ch. 290
(28 Statutes at Large, p. 311) approved August 15, 1894, in that part of the
act appropriating the public moneys for the support of Indian schools and
under the heading 'Support of Schools,' the following:
"'That the expenditure of money appropriated for school purposes under this act shall be at all times under'the supervision and direction of the
Commissioner for Indian Affairs and in all respects in conformity with such
conditions, rules, and regulations as to the conduct of and methods of instruction and expenditure of money as may, from time to time, be prescribed
by him, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
" 'Provided, that the Secretary of the Interior is hereby directed to inquire into and investigate the propriety of discontinuing contract schools
and whether, in his judgment, the same can be done without detriment to
the education of Indian children, and that he submit to Congress at the next
session the result of such investigation, including an estimate of the annual
cost, if any, of substituting Government schools for contract schools, together with such recommendations as he may deem proper.'
"In his annual report for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1894, the Secretary of the Interior said:
" 'The contract schools are now the subject of general discussion. I agree
fully with those who oppose the use of public money for the support of sectarian schools. But this question should be considered practically. The
schools have grown. up. Money has been invested in their construction at
a time when they were recognized as wise instrumentalities for the accomplishment of good. I do not think it proper to allow the intense feeling
of opposition to sectarian education, which is-showing itself all over the land,
to induce the department to disregard existing conditions. We need the
schools now, or else we need a large appropriation to build schools to take
their place.
"'It would scarcely be just to abolish them entirely-to abandon instantly a policy so long recognized. My own suggestion is that they should
be decreased at the rate of not less than 20% a year. Thus, in a few years
more, they would cease to exist, and during this time the bureau would
be gradually prepared to do without them, while they might gather strength
to continue without Government aid. This is the policy which is now controlling the department, and, unless it is changed by legislation, it will be
continued. The decrease in the appropriation for the present fiscal year
is 20%.'
"Congress, in pursuance of this recommendation, introduced for the first

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

cation or maintenance of any Indian pupils of the said Sioux
tribe, at the St. Francis Mission Boarding School on the Rosebud Reservation in the State of South Dakota, as provided
time in the appropriation act of 1895, ch. 188 (28 Stat. at Large, 888), a
limitation on the use of public money in sectarian schools.
"The act appropriates, under the heading 'Support of Schools,' of the
public moneys of the United States 'for the support of Indian day and industrial schools and for other purposes ( . . . $1,164,350.
. .
"'Provided, that the Secretary of the Interior shall make contracts, but
only with the present contract schools, for the education of Indian pupils
during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1896, to an extent not exceeding 80%
of the amount so used in the fiscal year 1895, and the Government shall,
as early as practicable, make provision for the education of Indians in Government schools.' (See 28 Stat. at Large, 903.)
"Congress, in the Indian appropriation act of 1896, ch. 398, appropriated
from the public moneys of the United States, under the'head 'Support of
Schools,' 'for support of Indian day and industrial schools and for other
educational purposes, . . . $1,235,000, . . .' and then as a qualification upon the appropriation, and following immediately thereupon, under the same heading, 'Support of Schools,' occurs the following language
in the act:
"'And it is hereby declared to be the settled policy of the Government to
hereafter make no appropriation whatever for education in any sectarian
school. Provided, that the Secretary of the Interior may make contracts
with contract schools and apportioning, as near as may be, the amount so
contracted for among schools of various denominations for the education
of Indian pupils during the fiscal year 1897, but shall only make such contracts at places where non-sectarian schools cannot be provided for such
Indian children, and to an amount not exceeding 50% of the amount so
used for thp fiscal year 1895.' (See 29 Stat. at Large, p. 345.)
"Congress, in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1807, ch. 3, appropriated
from the public moneys of the United 'States, under the head of 'Support of
Schools,' 'for support of Indian day and industrial schools, and for other
educational purposes . . . $1,200,000 . . .' and then as a qualification upon this appropriation, and following immediately thereupon, under the same heading, 'Support of Schools,' occurs the following language:
"'And it is hereby declared to be the settled policy of the Government to
hereafter make no appropriation whatever for education in any sectarian
school. Provided, the Secretary of the Interior may make contracts with
contract schools, apportioning as near as may he the amount so contracted
for among schools of various *denominations for the education of Indian
pupils during the fiscal year 1898, but shall only make such contracts at
places where non-sectarian schools canot he provided for such Indian
children, and to an amount not exceeding 40% of the amount so used for
the fiscal year 1895.' (See 30 Stat. at Large, p. 79.)

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

in the contract referred to in said bill and answer, and that the
defendants be further restrained from drawing, countersigning
and paying any warrants in favor of the said Bureau of Catholic
"Congress, in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1898, ch. 545, appropriated
from the public moneys of the United States, under the head of 'Support of
Schools,' for 'support of Indian day and industrial schools, and for other
educational, purposes . . . $1,100,000 . . . Provided, that the
Secretary of the Interior may make contracts with contract schools, apportioning as near as may be the amount so contracted for among schools
of various denominations for the education of Indian pupils during the
fiscal year of 1899, but shall only make such contracts at such places where
nonsectarian schools cannot be provided for such Indian children, and to an
amount not exceeding 30% of the amount so used for the fiscal year 1895.'
(See 30 Stat. at Large, p. 587.)
"Congress, in the Indian Appropriation Act of 1899, ch. 324, appropriated
from the public moneys of the United States, under the head of 'Support of
Schools,' 'for support of Indian day and industrial schools, and for other
educational purposes, . . . $1,100,000 . . . Provided, that the
Secretary of the Interior may make contracts with contract schools, apportioning as near as may be the amount so contracted for among schools of
various denominations for the education of Indian pupils during the fiscal
year 1900, but shall only make such contracts at places where nonsectarian
schools cannot be provided for such Indian children, and to an amount not
exceeding 15% of the amount so used for the fiscal year 1895, the same
to be divided proportionately among the said several contract schools, this
being the final appropriation for sectarian schools.' (See 30 Stat. at Large,
p. 942.)
"The several Indian annual appropriation acts since 1899, to wit, beginning with 1900 to the present time, contain under the head of 'Support of
Schools' simply a general appropriation of public moneys 'for the support
of Indian and industrial schools, and for other educational purposes,' without any proviso in any of them respecting contracts with sectarian schools,
or without any statement in any of them of the policy of the Government
with respect to sectarian schools.
"It will be observed that the phrase, 'and it is hereby declared to be the
settled policy of the Government to hereafter make no appropriation whatever for education in any sectarian school,' which is cited and relied on in
paragraph 7 of the bill, is found only in the Indian appropriation acts of
1896 and 1897, and in no prior or subsequent acts of Congress; that in these
two acts it is a limitation on the appropriation of public moneys, and is
found only under the heading 'Support of Schools,' under which the money
of the United States is appropriated for support of Indian schools, and does
not occur in any other part of these acts of Congress. These defendants,
therefore, submit, that this statement of policy, in so far as it can now have
any legal effect, was intended only to apply to, appropriations of public

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

Indian Missions, for the purpose aforesaid, payable out of the
said Sioux treaty fund; and
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that so much
of the prayer of the said bill as asks that an injunction issue
moneys for education in sectarian schools, and inasmuch as the appropriation of public moneys for these purposes was being reduced from year to
year by a percentage which would make the last appropriation to be for
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1900, there was no necessity for repeating
the phrase containing the policy of the Government in any acts after 1897.
The cessation of the appropriation from the public moneys for education
in the sectarian schools, was treated as the accomplishment of the purpose
contained in the statement of the policy found in the acts of 1896 and 1897.
"The above paragraph contains all the matter pertinent to the appropriation of public moneys for the support of education in sectarian schools.
These appropriations ceased with the Indian appropriatiop act of 1899,
have never been made since, nor is any one asking that they should be made,
or that any public moneys of the United States raised by taxation should
be employed for such purposes.
"13. But these defendants, further answering, say that entirely separate
and apart from the public moneys which, as stated in paragraph 12 of this
answer, were appropriated until 1899 for education in sectarian schools,.
there are other funds known as 'Tribal Funds' which may be applied for
these purposes. These funds these defendants rcspectfully submit, are not
public moneys, but really belong to the Indians themselves, and it is the
purpose of this paragraph of this answer to give a general account of these
funds, and a particular account of the 'Tribal Funds' of the Sioux Indians
which are directly in controversy in this case will be given in the next paragraph.
"These 'Tribal Funds' may be roughly grouped into two classes: (a)
Where cessions of land or other property have been made by the Indians,
and in consideration thereof a certain sum of money is deposited in the
Treasury of the United States, which is used for the Indians in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior. These are called 'Trust Funds.' (b)
Where cessions of land or other property have been made by the Indians
under treaties, and in consideration therefor the Government of the United
States has by treaty bound itself to furnish money for the civilization and
education of the Indians. These are called 'Treaty Funds.'
"Examples of these funds are as follows:
"Menominee Fund: Interest, $7,651.96 per annum (Treaty of 1848, Art. 5,
9 Stat. at Large, 952).
"Menominee Log Fund: Interest, $76,313.98 per annum (Act of March 22,
1882, 22 Stat. at Large, 30; Act of June 12, 1890, 26 Stat. at Large, 146).
"Osage Fund::Interest, $416,371.95 per annum (Treaty 1865, Art. 2,
14 Stat. at Large, 687; Act July l5th, 1870, 16 Stat. at Large, 362; Act of
June 16, 1880, 21 Stat. at Large, 292).

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

against the defendants restraining them from paying or authorizing the payment of any of the interest of the Sioux trust
fund to the said Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions under the
said contract, be refused; and
"Osage Fund: Interest on $69,120, 5% (Treaty Jan. 2d, 1825, for educational purposes per Senate resolution, Jan. 9, 1838, 7th Stat. at Large, 242).
"The yearly amounts provided for the Indians under treaties are annually
appropriated in the Indian appropriation acts, not in that part of the act
under the title 'Support of Schools' which appropriated the public money
of the United States, but under the heading 'Fulfilling Treaty Stipulations
with and support of Indian Tribes,' for although formally appropriated the
moneys are not regarded as the moneys of the United States, but moneys
belonging to the Indians, due to them under treaties in consideration of
their cession of lands and other rights.
"But inasmuch as according to Indian custom, the property is held in
common, and inasmuch as the Indians are regarded as wards of the Nation,
the money is not distributed per capita, but is expended for them, and for
their benefit and advantage, under the discretion of the Secretary of the
Interior. For some of the laws conferring this discretion, see 14th Stat.
687; 16 Stat. 362; 21 Stat. 292; 22 Stat. 30; 25 Stat. 895; 26 Stat. 146, 344.
"14. As to the 'Sioux funds' directly in controversy, the facts are as
follows:
"On March 2, 1889, the act of Congress of 1889, ch. 405, was approved.
This was entitled 'An act to divide a portion of the reservation of the Sioux
Nation of Indians in Dakota into separate reservations, and to secure the
relinquishment of the Indian tribe to the remainder.' Under this act, the
Indians made certain cessions of land, and in partial consideration therefor
it was provided in section 17 of the act as follows;
"'And in addition thereto, there shall be set apart out of any sum in
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the sum of three million dollars,
which said sum shall be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to
the credit of the Sioux Nation of Indians as a permanent fund, the interest
on which at five per cent. per annum shall be appropriated under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior to the use of the Indians receiving
rations and annuities upon the reservations created by this act in proportion
to the number that shall so receive rations and annuities at the time that
this act takes effect, as follows: One-half of said interest shall be so expended
for the promotion of industrial and other suitable education among the said
Indians, and the other half for such purposes, including reasonable cash
payments per capita, as in the discretion of such Secretary, shall, from time
to time, most contribute to the advancement of said Indians in civilization
and self-support.' 25 Stat. at Large, 895.
"This is the fund called the 'Sioux Trust Fund' in the fifth paragraph of
this bill.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

"It is further ordered and adjudged that each party pay the
respective costs by each incurred."
Each party prayed an appeal from so much of the decree as
was adverse to them. It was stipulated "that the amount
"The method of the payment of the interest on this fund was changed
in 1880 by the act of 1880, chapter 41, as follows:
" 'The Secretary of the Interior be, and he is hereby authorized to deposit in the Treasury of the United States, any and all sums now held by
him, or which may hereafter be received by him, as Secretary of the Interior
and trustee of various Indian tribes, on account of the redemption of United States bonds or other stocks and securities belonging to the Indian trust
fund, and all sums received on account of sales of Indian trust lands, and the
sales of stocks lately purchased for temporary investment whenever he is
of the opinion that the best interests of the Indians will be promoted by
such deposits in lieu of investments, and the United States shall pay interest semi-annually from the date of deposit of any and all such sums in
the United States Treasury, at the rate per annum stipulated by treaties,
or prescribed by law, and such payments shall be made in the usual manner,
as each may become due, without further appropriation by Congress.'
"This provision is partially cited in the bill in paragraph 6.
"15. Under a treaty between the United States and different tribes of
Sioux Indians made on April 29, 1868 (15 Stat. at Large, 635), these Indians made large cessions of land and other rights, and in partial consideration therefor the United States agreed with them as follows:
"'Art. VII. In order to insure the civilization of the Indians entering
into this treaty, the necessity of education is admitted, especially of those
as are or may be settled on said agricultural reservations, and they therefore, pledge themselves to compel their children, male and female, between
the ages of six and sixteen years to attend school, and it is hereby made the
duty of the agent for said Indians to see that this stipulation is strictly complied with, and the United States agrees that for every thirty children between said ages who can be induced or compelled to attend school, a house
shall be provided and a teacher competent to teach the elementary branches
of our English education shall be furnished, who will reside among said
Indians and faithfully discharge his or her duties as a teacher. This provision of this article to continue for not less than twenty years.'
"By the act of Congress of February 28, 1877, ch. 72 (19 Stat. at Large,
254-6), ratifying an agreement with bands of Sioux Nation, in censideration of further land cessions, it was provided:
"'In consideration of the foregoing cession of territory and rights and
upon full compliance with each and every obligation assumed by the said
Indians, the United States does agree to provide all necessary aid to assist
the said Indians in the work of civilization to furnish to them schools and
instructions in mechanical and agricultural arts as provided by the treaty
of 1868.'

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which was to have been paid from the Sioux treaty fund under
the contract in regard to which this suit is-brought is approximately $24,000."
"By the seventeenth section of the act of 1889, ch. 405 (25 Stat. at Large,
894), it was provided" 'that the 7th article of the said treaty of April 29, 1868, securing to said
Indians the benefit of education, subject to such modifications as Congress
shall deem most effective to secure said Indians equivalent benefits of such
education, shall continue in force for twenty years from and after the act
shall take effect.'
"By the act of 1905, ch. 1479 (33 Stat. at Large, p. 1048), entitled" 'An act making appropriations for current and contingent expenses of
the Indian Department and for fulfilling treaty stipulations with various
Indian tribes for the fiscal ear ending June 30th, 1906, and for other purposes

'-

"it was provided under the heading 'Fulfilling Treaty Stipulations with
and Support of Indian Tribes' as follows:
" ' For support of and maintenance of day and industrial schools, including
erection and repairs of school buildings in accordance with art. 7 of the
treaty of April 29th, 1868, which article was continued in force for twenty
years by see. 17 of the act of March 2, 1889, $225,000.'
"A similar appropriation has been annually made for many years back
in the Indian appropriation acts.
"This is the 'Treaty Fund' in dispute, referred to in the 4th paragraph
of the bill.
"These defendants respectfully represent that this 'Treaty Fund' does
not differ from the 'Trust Fund,' in the main point that it is money belonging to the Indians and not public money of the United States.
"Both funds arise from cessions made by the Indians of lands and other
rights. The one is a specific sum of which the United States is a trustee for
the Indians; the other is an obligation payable in installments under the
agreement of a treaty.
"These defendants, therefore, respectfully submit that as to both of these
funds there is nothing -to prevent the Secretary of the Interior from using
them in his discretion, and especially from using them as the real owners
thereof desire and request.
"16. Prior to 1900 the sectarian schools were aided by appropriations
from the public moneys, and in the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, from the tribal funds just described.
"In 1900, not only the public appropriations ceased, as has been heretofore shown, but all aid from the tribal funds also ceased, 'except as to the
Osage Treaty and trust funds hereinbefore referred to. At the request of
the Osage Indians, their treaty funds have been annually and uninterruptedly applied to the Catholic mission schools under annual contract with
the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, approved by the Secretary of the InVOL. ccx-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

The case was submitted on record and briefs, and the court
affirmed the decree below in respect of the income of the "Trust
Fund," and reversed the injunction against the payment from
the "Treaty Fund," and remanded the case with directions
to dismiss the bill at the cost of the complainants, whereupon
the case was brought to this court on appeal.
terior. With the exception of the Osage funds, no 'Tribal Funds' were applied to education in denominational schools from 1900 to 1904.
"In the meantime application was made to President McKinley by the
'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions' for the revocation of the 'Browning
Ruling' and the use of 'Tribal Funds' for the education of the Catholic
Indian children in Catholic schools.
"On September 30, 1896, the then Commissioner of Indian Affairs,
D. M. Browning, in answer to the question, 'whether parents of Indian children have the right to decide where their children shall attend school,' said:
"'It is your duty first to build up and maintain the Government day
schools, as indicated in your letter, and the Indian parents have no right
to designate which school their children shall attend.'
"This was the 'Browning ruling.' It was ordered abrogated by President
McKinley in 1901, and come eight months after, to wit, January 17, 1902,
it was formally abrogated by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs with the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
"The question of the use of the 'Tribal Funds' was referred by President
McKinley to the Secretary of the Interior, and by him to the Commissioner
of Indian Affairs, who decided adversely to the appropriation on February 12, 1901.
"17. On or about January 1, 1904, the matter of the application for the
use of 'Tribal Funds' for the education of Indian clhildrcn in Mission Schools
was brought to the attention of President Roosevelt by the 'Bureau of
Catholic Indian Missions,' who urged that the Indians should be allowed
to use their own money in educating their own children in the schools of
their choice.
"President Roosevelt took up the matter on January 22, 1904, at a meeting in the executive office of the White House, at which were present the
Attorney General (Mr. Knox) and Mr. Russell, of the Department of Justice,
and Secretaries Hitchcock, Cortelyou and Wilson, and Postmaster General
Payne. The President was legally advised that, notwithstanding the declaration of Congressional intent not to make appropriations in the future of
public moneys of the American people for sectarian institutions, the previous laws giving the Secretary of the Interior discretion to use certain moneys
of the Indians held in trust in any way that he might see fit, including assistance to sectarian schools, were not repealed, and consequently his discretion remained.
"The President decided that inasmuch as the legal authority existed to

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Charles C. Binney and Mr. Hampton L. Carson, with
whom Mr. N. Dubois Miller was on the brief, for appellants:
The term "contract schools," used in the Indian Appropriation Act for the fiscal year 1895, directing an investigation,
and in the similar acts for the years 1896-1900, inclusive, imposing gradually increasing limitations upon the Secretary of
grant the request of the Indians, they were entitled as a matter of moral
right to have the moneys coming to them used for the education of their
children at the schools of their choice.
"A full and detailed statement of the action of the President in 1904 is
set forth in his letter of February 3, 1905, which, with its enclosure, is herein
set out at length:
*

*

*

t

*t

*t

*t

*t

*

"'This new request was submitted to the Department of Justice, and the
department decided, as set forth in the accompanying report, that the prohibition of the law as to the use of public moneys for sectarian schools did
not extend to moneys belonging to the Indians themselves, and not to the
public, and that these moneys belonging to the Indians themselves might
be applied in accordance with the desire of the Indians for the support of
the schools to which they were sending their children. There was, in my
judgment, no question that, inasmuch as the legal authority existed to
grant the request of the Indians, they were entitled as a matter of moral
right to have the moneys coming to them used for the education of their
children at the schools of their choice. Care must be taken, of course, to
see that any petition by the Indians is genuine, and that the money appropriated for any given school represents only the pro rata proportion to which
the Indians making the petition are entitled. But if these two conditions
are fulfilled, it is, in my opinion, just and right that the Indians themselves
should have their.wishes respected when they request that their own money
-not the money of the public-be applied to the support of certain schools
to which they desire to send their children. The practice will be continued
by the department unless Congress should decree to the contrary, or, of
course, unless the courts should decide that the decision of the Department
of Justice is erroneous.'
"This communication enclosed a letter from the Attorney General setting forth at length the grounds for the conclusion 'that, notwithstanding
the declaration of Congressional intent not to make appropriations in the
future of public moneys of the American people for sectarian institutions,
the previous laws giving the Secretary of the Interior discretion to use certain moneys of the Indians held in trust in any way that he might see fit,
including assistance to sectarian schools, were not repealed, and consequently his discretion remained. For some of these laws, see 14 Stat. 687;
16 Stat. 362; 21 Stat. 292; 22 Stat. 30; 25 Stat. 895; 26 Stat. 146; id. 344.'
*t

*t

*

*

*t

*

*

*t

*

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

210 U. S.

the Interior's power to contract, included the schools for
which the contracts were then payable out of Indian treaty
and trust funds.
When Congress in 1894 directed the Secretary of the In"Accordingly the following contracts were made by the United States
with various sectarian organizations for the education of Indian children
from 'Tribal Funds' for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1906:
Name of School.

Denomination.

Pupils.

St. Joseph..............
St. Louis..
......
St. John...
........
Immaculate Conception...
Holy Rosary .........
..
St. rancis ...............
St. Labre ................
St. Mary .................
Zoas' Boarding School.

Catholic....
Catholic....
Catholic....
Catholic....
Catholic....
Catholic. ...
Catholic....
Catholic....
Lutheran...

170
75
65
65
200
250
60
10
40

Total ..........................

" 935

Tribe.

Rate per Total per
annum.
year.

Menominee...
Osage ........
Osage ........
Sioux ........
Sioux ........
Sioux ........
Northern
Cheyenne.
Quapaw ......
Menominee...
.

................

$108
125
125
108
108
108
108
50
108

$18,360
9,375
8,125
7,020
21,600
27,000
6,480
500
4,320
$102,780

"In June, 1905, the Commissioner of Indian Affairs was notified by the
'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions' that it was prepared to care for and
educate during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1906, Indian pupils at the
several hchools carried on by it among the Sioux, Menominee, Osage, Northern Cheyenne, and Quapaw tribes upon the same terms and conditions as
stipulated in its contracts for carrying on these schools for the fiscal year
1905, and requested that it be granted a renewal of the contracts in question, payable in each case from the trust and treaty funds of the tribe among
which he school is located for the twelve months beginning July 1, 1905.
"To this application the Commissioner replied that the. request would
receive careful consideration; that the applicability of the trust and treaty
funds had been submitted to the proper authorities for a definite determination, and indicated how petitions should be prepared, and the safeguards
under which the signatures of the Indians should be made. Petitions were
duly filed, signed under all the safeguards, by the Catholic Indians.
"In the meantime the schools were opened at the usual time and instruction given to the required numiber of pupils, in the confidence that the contracts applied for would be renewed.
"The Attorney General not having rendered any decision in the matter,
the President, by a letter dated December 23, 1905, addressed to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, after quoting a part of his letter of February 3,
1905, hereinbefore referred to, said:
"'There are two kinds of Indian funds involved in this matter. One is
the trust fund, which requires no appropriation by Congress, and which
clearly is to be administered as the Indians themselves request. As regards
this fund, you will treat it on. the assumption that the Indians have the
right to say how it shall be used, so far as choosing the schools to which

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

terior "to inquire into and investigate the propriety of discontinuing contract schools and whether, in his judgment,
the same can be done without detriment to the education of
Indian children, and that he submit to Congress, at the next
their children are to go is concerned; and each Indian in a tribe to be credited
with his pro rata share of the funds which you will apply for him to the
Government school where that is the school used, or to the church school
where that is the school used, instead of segregating any portion of the fund
for the support of the Government school and prorating the balance.
" 'The other fund consists of moneys appropriated by Congress in pursuance of treaty stipulations. As to these moneys it is uncertain as to
whether or not the prohibition by Congress of their application for contract
school applies-that is, whether or not we have the power legally to use
these moneys as we clearly have the power to use the trust funds. It appears that certain of the contract schools are now being run in the belief
that my letter quoted above authorized the use of the treaty funds. It
would be a great hardship, in the absence of any clearly defined law on the
subject, to cut them off at this time arbitrarily, and inasmuch as there is a
serious question involved, I direct that until the close of the fiscal year these
schools be paid for their services out of the moneys appropriated by Congress
in pursuance of treaty obligations, on the same basis as the schools paid out
of the trust funds-always exercising the precautions directed in my letter
of February 3d, 1905, 'to see that any petition by the Indians is genuine,
and that the money appropriated for any given school represents only the
pro rata proportion to which the Indians making the petition are entitled.'
But no new contracts are to be entered into for such payments after the
close of the present fiscal year, unless there is authorization by Congress or
some determination by the courts.'
"Accordingly, the contracts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1905,
hereinafter set forth, were renewed for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1906,
the new contracts being executed as of July 1, 1905.
"The services have been performed under all these contracts and the
money paid in all of them, except under the contract with the 'Bureau of
Catholic Indian Missions' for the education of 250 Indian pupils at St.
Francis Mission School on the Rosebud Reservation. The payment of the
$27,000 which is due under this contract has been withheld pending the decision by this honorable court as to validity of the contract and the appropriatiofi of tribal funds for such purposes.
"18. And these defendants, specifically'answering as to the contract in
dispute, say:
"That it is a contract made between F. E. Leupp, Commissioner of Indian Affairs, for and on behalf of the United States of America, and the
'Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions,' executed as of July 1, 1905, for the
care, education and maintenance of 250 Indian pupils at the St. Francis
Mission School, Rosebud Reservation, South Dakota, at $108 per capita,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

210 U. S.

session, the result of such investigation, including an estimate
of the annual cost, if any, of substituting Government schools
for contract schools," and when the Secretary reported, suggesting a plan for gradually doing away with the contract
schools, making no distinctions among them, both Congress
and the Secretary referred to the contract schools in general,
and not merely to those of them which were supported from
the appropriations expressly inade by Congress for Indian
education, to the exclusion of the contract schools supported
from Indian treaty and trust funds.
After the close of the fiscal year 1900 the Secretary of the
Interior could not legally make or authorize any contract,
in behalf of the United States, for the education of Indian
pupils in any sectarian school.
Considering the direction to the Secretary of the Interior
in 1894 to investigate the propriety of discontinuing contract
schools, and to report the cost of substituting Government
schools for contract schools; his report advocating a gradual
reduction in the contract schools during a short period of years,
during which period the Government should prepare to do
without them; the adoption of the system advocated by him,
successively restricting more and more his authority to conper annum, amounting to $27,000. The contract was approved by Jesse E.
Wilson, Acting Secretary of the Interior.
"Application for the contract was made by the 'Bureau of Catholic
Indian Missions' on June 6, 1905.
"On March 26, 1906, a petition duly signed and genuinely signed by 212
members of the Sioux tribe of Indians of the Rosebud Agency, South Dakota, was filed, asking that the said contract applied for be entered into with
the bureau.
"The payments under the contract were to be made from the 'Sioux
described, in
Trust Fund' and the 'Sioux Treaty Fund,' as hereinbefore
.
Affairs.
the discretion of the Commissioner of Indian
"There are 4,986 Indians on the rolls of the Rosebud Reservation, and
the amount of tribal income applicable to education, ixn the discretion of the
Commissioner, is"$250,047.90, or a per capita of 550.15.
& of this
"The 212 petitioners represent. 669 shares,. or 33,55035,. and.
they ask that $27,000 be used for thii education of theiirhildren in St. i4"-

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

tract with such schools; the declarations in the acts of 1896
and 1897 that, subject to the restricted authority granted by
those acts, it was "the settled policy of the Government to
hereafter make no appropriation whatever for education in
any sectarian school"; the declaration in the act of 1899 that
the appropriation there made was "the final appropriation for
se'ctarian schools"; and the fact that since 1899 no statute has
granted the Secretary any authority to contract with sectarian
schools for the education of Indian pupils; the conclusion is
irresistible that Congress decided to abolish the entire system
of Government aid to such schools, and to do so by depriving
the Secretary of all authority to make any more such contracts.
Moreover, as it has been shown above that the term "contract schools" was officially used as including contract schools
supported from Indian treaty and trust funds, the conclusion
is irresistible that Congress made no distinction between contracts as to which the money was to come from the appropriacis Mission School. The following table will represent the pro rata shares
in these tribal funds, and the per capita shares:
4,986 Indians,
669 shares
Petitions,
4,317 Petitions (nonpetitions)

$250,047.90 Tribal Funds $50.15 per capita.

4,986

$250,047.90 Tribal Funds $50.15 per capita.

33,550.35 Tribal Funds $50.15 per capita.

"The cost of the Government school for the fiscal year was about $76,830.
Since the shares of the petitioning Indians amount to $33,550.35, and the
sum asked for the school is only $27,000 out of this share, and the petitions
were genuinely signed, the terms of the executive order of President Roosevelt of February 3d, 1905, e. g., 'to see that any petition by the Indians is
genuine, and that the money appropriated for any given school represents
only the pro rata proportion to which the Indians making the petition are
entitled,' have been strictly carried out.
"The services under this contract have been fully performed to the satisfaction of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, and the twenty-seven thousand
dollars ($27,000) agreed to be paid is due and payable, if this honorable
court determines that it is legally payable out of the 'Sioux Trust Fund'
and the
.*$
*
0
*
* 'Sioux
* Treaty Fund.'"
*
'
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellants.

210 U. S.

tion for the support of schools, and contracts as to which the
money was to come from Indian treaty and trust funds. In
either case the Government was the disburser of the moneythe hand which directly dispensed the aid-and the money
was disbursed under a contract. To deprive the Secretary
of the power to make such contracts altogether was the only
effectual means of preventing him from using Indian treaty
and trust funds for sectarian schools, and it would operate just
as effectually in regard to such funds as in regard to funds
derived from the apprdpriation for the support of schools.
The Secretary's power to make such a contract was taken
away altogether, and not merely as regards contracts where
the money was to be paid out of appropriations by Congress
expressly for the support of Indian schools.
As regards the taking away of the Secretary's power to make
such a contract, no distinction can be drawn between money
expressly appropriated by Congress for the support of Indian
schools and money appropriated by Congress in fulfillment of
Indian treaties and available for education.
As regards use under contracts with sectarian schools, no
distinction can be drawn between money expressly appropriated by Congress for the support of Indian schools and money
paid by the Government as interest on Indian funds held in
trust by it.
While in the case of the Sioux trust fund the appropriation
is made by a different system from that pursued with the
Sioux treaty fund, there is still an appropriation within the
meaning of the acts of 1896 and 1897, declaring it to be "the
settled policy of the Government to hereafter make no appropriation whatever for education in any. sectarian school,"
and the act of 1899 which said, "this being the final appropriation for sectarian schools." The word "appropriation,"
used as it is here, in statutes of the class known as "appropriation acts," is necessarily technical. It means an appropriation
by Congress of money in the Treasury of the United States.
Restricted as this meaning is, however, the whole phrase,

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

"make no appropriation whatever," is as broad a phrase as
the limits of that meaning will possibly permit, and it refers
to any and every kind of appropriation that Congress can
make, without regard to the method of such appropriation.
"No appropriation whatever" is a phrase that can have no
limits but those which necessarily restrict the word "appropriation" itself.
The appropriations of funds in the United States Treasury
are of two kinds, viz., those made for each successive fiscal
year, and permanent annual appropriations. The latter are
provided for in ยงยง 3687-3689, Rev. Stat., and cover a number
of matters (the cost of revenue collection, payment of interest
on the public debt, etc.), which are expected to recur every
year, either indefinitely or for a considerable period, so that
it is held inadvisable to make a special appropriation for them
every year. When the Revised Statutes were compiled, the
Indian trust funds were all invested (under ยงยง 2095,2096),
and the income received was paid to the Indians or expended
for them, and this system was not changed until the act of
April 1, 1880, c. 41, 21 Stats. 70. That act, providing for the
payment of interest upon Indian trust funds deposited in the
Treasury to the credit of Indian tribes, such payment to "be
made in the usual manner, as each may become due, without
further appropriation by Congress," really constitutes a permanent annual appropriation of such interest. Had that
change been made before the Revised Statutes were compiled,
the interest on the Indian trust funds would presumably have
been included in the permanent annual appropriation system,
The words "without further appropriation by Congress" clearly
show that the provision of the act of 1880 constituted an
appropriation once for all, or in other words a permanent
annual appropriation.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Edgar H. Gans, with whom
The Attorney General was on the brief, for appellees:
There is no constitutional question. For eighty years Con-

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellees.

210 U. S.

gress extended aid out of the public funds to mission schools
of various denominations, finally withdrawing it because of
opposition among the people at large and because the time had
thus arrived for establishing distinctive government schools.
If there were a valid constitutional objection to the earlier
course, it is probable that it would have been discovered during
that period of eighty years. The Constitution provides that
"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of
religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof." A religious
establishment, however, is not synonymous with an establishment of religion. See Bradfield v. Roberts, 175 U. S. 291, up'holding an appropriation for a Roman Catholic hospital. A
school, like a hospital, is neither an establishment of religion
nor a religious establishment, although along with secular
education there might be, as there commonly is, instruction
in morality and religion, just as in a hospital there would be
religious ministrations.
But opposing counsel advance a line of suggestion similar
to that made by the complainant in Bradfield v. Roberts, viz.:
that the contract involved a principle and a precedent contrary to the Article of the Constitution, and tended to obliterate
the essential distinction between civil and religious functions
and injured the complainant and all other citizens and taxpayers of the United States, and was contrary to the Constitution and declared policy of the Government. But the court
passed all such contentions, merely referring to them as statements of complainant's opinion.
. The question here is wholly of statutory construction.
The aid of'the public funds was gradually diminished and
then wholly withdrawn with the declaration in the acts of
1896 and 1897 that thereafter the policy of the Government
would be to make no appropriation for sectarian schools,
and the reference to the appropriation of 1899 as final, 29
Stat. 345; 30 Stat. -79 and 942. These declarations of policy
would not prevent the present or a future Congress from resuming the appropriation and renewing the aid. The pro

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

hibition must be restricted to the particular kind of appropriations in which the declaration of policy appears, namely, to
those under the heading "Support of Schools" which are altogether appropriations of public funds for Indian education;
it is not intended to apply to the "tribal funds," as contended
by the appellants, which are dealt with in an entirely different
and separated -portion of the appropriation acts. It is a case
where the proviso or exception relates only to the particular
paragraph or distinct portion of the statute where it occurs,
and is not to be extended to the whole statute or other portions
of it. Savings Bank v. Collector, 3 Wall. 495; "Henderson's
Tobacco, 11 Wall. 658; Dollar Savings Bank v. United States,
19 Wall' 227.
The "treaty funds" are manifestly funds belonging to the
Indians, just as much in the case of the treaty funds which
are the annual payment by installment of obligations to the.
Indians incurred under treaties, as with the trust funds which
are the lump sums paid in settlement of such obligations, upon
which the income is expended for the benefit of the Indians.
In each case there is an "appropriation," annual or permanent,
made, not as the ordinary appropriation applying public funds,
but simply as an authority or mandate to the executive agents
and the trustee to apply the avails of the fund as usual every
year for the benefit of the cestui que trust.
There is no injustice in permitting an Indian to select a
school for his children under the auspices of the church to
which he is attached, and allowing on that account a portion
of the tribal funds or a portion of the annuities or rations to be
applied. Why should not one Indian. or a group of Indians
benefit by their strict proportionate share of the tribal funds
and be permitted to determine, always within the scope of
the Secretary's discretion, how their proportion of the funds
should be expended? It is significant that Congress has refused to direct otherwise, laying on the table a bill forbidding
trust and'treaty funds to be so applied (H. R. 7067, 59th Cong.,
1st sess.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellees.

210 U. S.

As to the related point that payments out of the treaty fund
will diminish the amount of money which should be expended
for the benefit of the entire tribe, the fact is that while the money
arising from such funds is not systematically distributed per
capita, it is nevertheless expended for the benefit and advantage
of the Indians under a liberal exercise of the Secretary's discretion. The Indian may have no individual locus standi to
compel payment in hand to him, but that does not prohibit
the Secretary from applying a proper share of the funds for
his. individual benefit, especially when the Secretary's discretion is exercised by giving the same benefit to a collective
group of individual Indians. That the treaty funds are intended by the law to provide for the Indians as individuals is
evident from the heading "Subsistence and Civilization," under which the appropriation acts go on to provide for fulfilling
treaty obligations, and from the long established practice of
distributing food and clothing out of treaty funds. An examination of examples of such funds in the treaties and statutes shows that the entire application of the proceeds of such
tribal funds is committed to the Secretary's discretion with
little limitation. Treaty of 1848, art. 5, 9 Stat. 952; treaty
of 1865, art. 2, 14 Stat. 687; act July 15, 1870, c. 296, 16 Stat.
362; act June 16, c. 252, 21 Stat. 292; act March 22, 1882,
c. 46, 22 Stat. 30; act June 12, 1890, c. 418, 26 Stat. 146. In
short, it is evident that while in a certain sense these funds
and their revenue are to be administered for the benefit of the
tribe, the aggregate community, the determination of that matter also is committed to the Secretary, and he is plainly authorized to administer the funds proportionately for the benefit
of smaller groups or of individuals and in the way of benefiting them with any educational or civilizing influence.
It would be unjust to withhold from an Indian or community
of Indians the right, within reasonable limits, in good faith,
and under the safeguards provided'by the President's instructions, to choose their own school and to choose it frankly
because the education therein is under the inflience of the

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. .

Opinion of the Court.

religious faith in which they believe and to which they are attached, and to have the use of their proportion of tribal funds
applied under the control of the Secretary's discretion to maintain such schools. Any other view of the case perverts the
supposed general spirit of the constitutional provision into a
means of prohibiting the free exercise of religion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We concur in the decree of the Court of Appeals of the District and the reasoning by which its conclusion is supported,
as set forth in the opinion of Wright, J., speaking for the court.
Washington Law Rep., v. 35, p. 766.
The validity of the contract for $27,000 is attacked on the
ground that all contracts for sectarian education among the
Indians are forbidden by certain provisos contained in the
Indian Appropriation Acts of 1895, 1896, 1897, 1898 and 1899.
But if those provisos relate only to the appropriations made
by the Government out of the public moneys of the United
States raised by taxation from persons of all creeds and faiths,
or none at all, and appropriated gratuitously for the purpose
of education among the Indians, and not to "Tribal Funds,"
which belong to the Indians themselves, then the contract must
be sustained. The difference between one class of appropriations and the other has long been recognized in the annual appropriation acts. The gratuitous appropriation, of public
moneys for the purpose of Indian education has always been
made under the heading "Support of Schools," whilst the appropriation of the "Treaty Fund" has always been under the
heading "Fulfilling Treaty Stipulations and Support of Indian
Tribes," and that from the "Trust Fund" is not in the Indian
Appropriation Acts at all. One class of appropriations relates
to public moneys belonging to the Government; the other
to moneys which belong to the Indians and which is administered for them by the Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

From the history of appropriations of public moneys for
education of Indians, set forth in the brief of counsel for appellees and again at length in the answer, it appears that before 1895 the Government for a number of years had made
contracts for sectarian schools for the education of the Indians,
and the money due on these contracts was paid, in the discretion of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, from the "Tribal
Funds" and from the gratuitous public appropriations. But
in 1894 opposition developed against appropriating public
moneys for sectarian education. Accordingly, in the Indian
Appropriation Act of 1894, under the heading of "Support of
Schools," the Secretary of the Interior was directed to investigate the propriety of discontinuing contract schools and to
make such recommendations as he might deem proper. The
Secretary suggested a gradual reduction in the public appropriations on account of the money which had been invested in
these schools, with the approbation of the Government. He
said: "It would be scarcely just to abolish them entirely-to
abandon instantly a policy so long recognized," and suggested
that they should be decreased at the rate of not less than
twenty per cent a year. Thus in a few years they would cease
to exist, and during this time the bureau would be gradually
prepared to do without them, while they might gather strength
to continue without Government aid.
Accordingly Congress introduced in the appropriation act
of 1895 a limitation on the use of public moneys in sectarian
schools. This act appropriated under the heading "Support
of Schools" "for the support of Indian and industrial schools
and for other purposes

. .

.$1,164,350,

.

.

.

pro-

vided, that the Secretary of the Interior shall make contracts,
but only with the present contract schools for the education
of Indian pupils during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1896,
to an extent not exceeding eighty per cent of the amount so
used in the fiscal year 1895, and the Government shall as early
as practicable make provision for the education of the Indians
in Government schools."

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This limitation of eighty per cent was to be expended for contract schools, which were those that up to that time had educated Indians through the use of public moneys, and had no
relation and did not refer to "Tribal Funds."
In the appropriation act of 1896, under the same heading,
"Support of Schools," the appropriation of public money of
$1,235,000 was limited by a proviso that contracts should only
be made at places where non-sectarian schools cannot be provided for Indian children to an amount not exceeding fifty per
cent of the amount so used for the fiscal year 1895, and immediately following the appropriation of public money appears
the expression, "and it is hereby declared to be the settled
policy of the Government to hereafter make no appropriation
whatever for education in any sectarian school." This limitation, if it can be given effect as such, manifestly applies to
the use of public moneys gratuitously appropriated for such
purpose, and not to moneys belonging to the Indians themselves. In the appropriation act of 1897 the. same declaration
of policy occurs as a limitation on the appropriation of public
moneys for the support of schools, and the amount applicable
to contract schools was limited to forty per cent of the amount
used in 1895. In the act of 1898 the amount applicable to
contract schools was limited to thirty per cent, and in the act
of 1899 the amount so applicable was limited to fifteen per cent,
these words being added: "this being the final appropriation
for sectarian schools." The declaration of the settled policy
of the Government is found only in the acts of 1896 and
1897, and was entirely carried out by the reductions provided
for.
Since 1899 public moneys are appropriated under the heading "Support of Schools" "for the support of Indian and industrial schools and for other educational purposes," without
saying anything about sectarian schools. This was not needed,
as the effect of the legislation was to make subsequent appropriations'for education mean that sectarian schools were excluded in sharing in them, unless otherwise provided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

As has been shown, in 1868 the United States made a treaty
with the Sioux Indians, under which the Indians made large
cessions of land and other rights. In consideration of this the
United States agreed that for every thirty children a house
should, be provided and a teacher competent to teach the
elementary branches of our English education should be furnished for twenty years. In 1877, in consideration of further
land cessions, the United States agreed to furnish all necessary
aid to assist the Indians in the work of civilization and furnish
them schools and instruction in mechanical and agricultural
arts, as provided by the Treaty of 1868. In 1889 Congress
extended the obligation of the treaty for twenty years, subject to such modifications as Congress should deem most
effective, to secure the Indians equivalent benefits of such
education. Thereafter, in every annual Indian appropriation
act, there was an appropriation to carry out the terms of this
treaty, under the heading "Fulfilling Treaty Stipulations with
and Support of Indian Tribes."
These appropriations rested on different grounds from the
gratuitous appropriations of public moneys under the heading
"Support of Schools." The two subjects were separately
treated in each act, and, naturally, as they are essentially
different in character. One is the gratuitous appropriation
of public moneys for the purpose of Indian education, but the
"Treaty Fund" is not public money in this sense. It is the
Indians' money, or at least is dealt with by the Government
as if it belonged -to them, as morally it does. It differs from
the "Trust Fund" in this: The "Trust Fund" has been set
aside for the Indians and the income expended for their benefit, which expenditure required no annual appropriation. The
whole amount due the Indians for certain land cessions was
appropriated in one lump sum by the act of 1889, 25 Stat.
888, chap. .405. This "Trust Fund" is held for the Indians
and not distributed per capita, being held as property in common. The money is distributed in accordance with the discretion of the Secretary of the. Interior, but really be] gs to

QUICK BEAR v. LEUPP.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Indians. The President declared it to be the moral right
of the Indians to have this "Trust Fund" applied to the education of the Indians in the schools of their choice, and the
same view was entertained by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia and the Court of Appeals of the District.
But the "Treaty Fund" has exactly the same characteristics.
They are moneys belonging really to the Indians. They are
the price of land ceded by the Indians to the Government.
The only difference is that in the "Treaty Fund" the debt to
the Indians created and secured by the treaty is paid by
annual appropriations. They are not gratuitous appropriations
of public moneys, but the payment, as we repeat, of a treaty
debt in installments. We perceive no justification for applying the proviso or declaration of policy to the payment of treaty
obligations, the two things being distinct and different in
nature and having no relation to each other, except that both
are technically appropriations.
Some reference is made to the Constitution, in respect to
this contract with the Bureau of Catholic Indian Missions.
It is not contended that it is unconstitutional, and it could not
be. Roberts v. Bradfield, 12 App. D. C. 475; Bradfield- v.
Roberts, 175 U. S.291. But it is contended that the spirit of
the Constitution requires that the declaration of policy that
the Government "shall make no appropriation whatever for
education in any sectarian schools" should be treated as applicable, on the ground that the actions of the United States
were to always be undenominational, and that, therefore, the
Government can never act in a sectarian capacity, either in
the use of its own funds or in that of the funds of others, in
respect of which it is a trustee; hence that even the Sioux
trust fund cannot be applied for education in Catholic schools,
even though the owners of the fund so desire it. But we cannot
concede the proposition that Indians cannot be allowed to
use their own money to educate their children in the schools
of their bwn choice because the Government is necessarily
undenominational, as it cannot make any law respecting an
VOL. ccx-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.
The Court of Appeals well said:
"The 'Treaty' and 'Trust' moneys are the only moneys
that the Indians can lay claim to as matter of right; the only
sums on which they are entitled to rely as theirs for education;
and while these moneys are not delivered to them in hand, yet
the money must not only be provided, but be expended, for
their benefit and in part for their education; it seems inconceivable that Congress should have intended to prohibit them
from receiving religious education at their own cost if they
so desired it; such an intent would be one 'to prohibit the free
exercise of religion' amongst the Indians, and such would be
the effect of the construction for which the complainants contend."
The cestuis que trust cannot be deprived of their rights by
the trustee in the exercise of power implied.
Decree affirmed.

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT โข OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 220.

Argued April 30, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The full faith and credit clause of the Federal Cofistitution does not preclude the courts of a State in which the judgment of a sister State is
presented from inquiry as to jurisdiction of the court by which the judgment is rendered, nor is this inquiry precluded by a recital in the record
of jurisdictional facts.
Every State has exclusive jurisdiction over property within its borders,
and where testator has property in more than one State each State has
jurisdiction over the property within its limits and can, in its own courts,
provide for the disposition thereof in conformity with its laws.
There is no privity between the executor and an administrator with the will
annexed appointed in another State which makes a decree in a court of
such State against the latter binding under the full faith and credit clause
of the Federal Constitution upon the former in the courts of the State
in which such executor is appointed.

