296

OCTO3ER TERM, 1907.
Syllabua

210 U. S.

ship of such injuries, and hoping to diminish the economic loss
to the community resulting from them, should deem it wise to
impose their burdens upon those who could measurably control their causes, instead of upon those who are in the main
helpless in that regard. Such a policy would be intelligible,
and, to say the least, not so unreasonable as to require us to
doubt that it was intended, and to seek some unnatural interpretation of common words. We see no error in this part of
the case. But for the reasons before given the judgment must
be
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

concurs in the judgment.

MUNICIPALITY OF PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC APOS,
TOLIC CHURCH IN PORTO RICO.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 143.

Argued March 3, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Under the organic act of Porto Rico, March 2, 1901, 31 Stat. 77, the legislative assembly has express authority to legislate regarding the jurisdiction and procedure of its courts, and it has been usual for Congress to
give such power to the legislatures of the Territories.
Such legislation was not contrary to the Constitution and was in conformity
with the power conferred by Congress upon the legislative assembly to
regulate the jurisdiction of the courts.
Since April 11, 1899, Porto Rico has been de facto and de jure American
territory, and its history and its legal and political institutions up to the
time of its nnexation will be recognized by this court.
As to our insular possessions the Spanish law is no longer foreign law, and
the courts will take judicial notice thereof so far as it affects those possessions.
The act of legislative assembly of Porto. Rico of March 10, 1904, conferring
jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of Porto Rico for the trial and adjudication of property claimed by the Roman Catholic Church was within
its legislative power.
The general prohibition in the act of July 30, 1886, 24 Stat. 170;, against

territorial legislatures passing special laws does not apply where specific
permission is granted by the organic act of a particular Territory.

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC MJHURCH.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Because it gives a certain corporation a right to maintain an action, a law'
cannot be regarded as a special law granting an exclusive privilege where
it confers equal rights upon the people and the municipalities affected by'
the right and interested in matters affected.
A dedication 1o a public or charitable use may exist, even where there is no
specific corporate entity to take as grantee. Werlein v. New Orleans, 177'
U. S. 390.
The Roman Catholic Church has been recognized as possessing legal personality by the treaty of Paris with Spain of 1898 and its property rights.
solemnly safeguarded. In so doing the treaty followed the recognized
rule of international law which would have protected the property of the
church in Porto Rico subsequent to the cession. The juristic personality,
of the Roman Catholic Church and its ownership of property was formally
recognized by the concordats between Spain and the papacy and by the,
Spanish laws from the beginning of settlements in the Indies. Such recognition has a.lso been accorded the church by all systems of European law.
from the fourth century of the Christian era.
The fact that a municipality in Porto Rico furnished some of the funds
for building or repairing the churches cannot affect the title of the
Roman Catholic Church, to whom such funds were thus irrevocably
donated and by whom these temples were erected and dedicated to religious uses.
THIS suit was commenced by the Roman Catholic Church,
in Porto Rico through the Bishop of that diocese against the'
municipality of Ponce. The complaint fully set forth the
facts by reason of which relief was demanded. A demurrer
was interposed, which was overruled, and leave to answer
granted, which defendant having failed to do, judgment was
entered by default.
It appeared that the Roman Catholic Church had been for
many years in the lawful and peaceful possession of two
churches, or temples, one in Ponce and one in Playa, the port
of Ponce, dedicated, consecrated to and' always used by the'
Catholic Church for its worship.
The petition alleged, among other things, that "these temples
or churches were built with the funds of the municipality
within which they are situated, and since then they have been
.maintained by donations and alms from the parishioners; and
with respect to them their possession by the Catholic Church
runs for many years, counting from the time when the build-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

ing of the same was completed. And none of the buildings
of those temples, since they were built, have been used for
any other purpose than Catholic worship."
In 1827, by reason of steps taken by-the royal alcalde of
Ponce and by the then governor of the island, Don Simon de
la Torre, a board or commission having jurisdiction over the
repairing and conservation of churches advised the governor
that it was "in keeping with the decorum of a rich and Christian city like Ponce to have a temple which would show that
such conditions existed covered with an arched roof, and not
a roof of thatch," etc.
The petition describes with considerable minuteness of detail the various steps taken to rebuild or repair this church
at Ponce. The last estimate for repairs was made in 1872.
It is evident from the record that the sums expended came
from several distinct sources(1) Funds voluntarily contributed by the parishioners; (2)
the funds of the "House of the King;" (3) an assessment made
in 1835-36; (4) moneys advanced by the municipality.
As to the church at Playa, it was erected in part, at least,
with funds donated by the parishioners and apparently on
private land.
Whether the funds subsequently used for repairs of either
or both of 'the temples were in part derived- directly from the
municipality or merely taken by way of loan, was a matter
between the central government and the municipality, which
could not affect the title of the church under the then existing
relations between church and State.
The comilaint then alleged:
"13. The city council of the city of Ponce has included in
the inventory of its property the parochial church, described
in the first allegation of the complaint, on the ground that
from time immemorial the said church has been included in
that inventory. We do not know the exact date on which
that inventory may have been made, but according to the information we have it only runs back a few years from this'date.

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"14. After the change of sovereignty the city council of
Ponce attempted to record in- the registry of property the
possession of the said church, and the lot upon whidh the same
is situated, but in view of the fact that this was contrary to
the provisions of paragraph 2 of article 25 of the regulations
for the application of the mortgage law, which excludes the
inscription of public temples used for Catholic worship, the
registrar of property of the district of Ponce refused to make
the inscription, unless a decision be obtained from the secretary of justice to authorize the same, notwithstanding the
prohibitive provisions of the regulations. The secretary of
justice rendered the decision applied for, repealing, without
being a legislative authority, the said article 25 of the regulations in its second paragraph."
The Supreme Court of Porto Rico rendered the following
judgment at San Juan, Porto Rico, May 21, 1906:
"This cause having heretofore been regularly called for decision upon the demurrer filed by the defendant to the plaintiff's complaint, and the same having been duly considered
and overruled, and leave granted the defendant to file an
answer within the time prescribed by law, and the said defendant having failed to file such answer, and judgment by
default having been duly rendered therein, all of which proceedings appear in the record of this court, it is accordingly
now hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed that the plaintiff
have judgment against the defendant as prayed for in the
complaint, and that all adverse claims whatsoever of the defendant and of all persons claiming or to claim the property
herein described, or any part thereof, under said defendant,
are hereby ordered, adjudged and decreed to be invalid and
groundless, null and void; and that the .plaintiff be and hereby
is declared, adjudged and decreed to be the sole, true and
lawful owner of the houses and lands hereinafter described,
as set forth in the complaint; and every part and parcel thereof,
and that the title of the plaintiff thereto is adjudged and decreed to be quieted against any and all claims and demands

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Cae.

210 U. S.

of the defendant; and the said defendant is hereby perpetually
enjoined and estopped from setting up any claim or title
whatever thereto, or to any part thereof.
"Said premises are bounded and described as follows:
" 'The first is a building constructed of brick and masonry,
situated in the city of Ponce, on an area of sixty-five meters
and eight centimeters wide, including the walk, the building
measuring forty-eight meters long by twenty-four meters 'and
sixty-seven centimeters wide; bounded on the north by the
Plaza Principal; on the south by the Plaza de las Delicias; on
the east by the fire department, which is situated on the same
lot or yard as the church; on the west by the said Plaza Principal.
"'The second is another building situated in the center of
the Plaza de la Playa de Ponce; the superficial area whereof
measures forty-two meters and twenty centimeters long, by
nineteen meters and forty centimeters wide; including the
walk, the building measuring eighteen meters and thirty centimeters long by sixteen meters and twenty centimeters
wide. It is bounded on all four sides by the Plaza de la
Playa.'
"The inscription of possession heretofore made in the registry of property at Ponce, concerning the above said properties, in favor of the defendant, the municipality of Ponce,
ii hereby cancelled and declared to be utterly null and void,
and the proper endorsement must be made upon the said
registry indicating the same.
"It is hereby further ordered, adjudged and decreed that
the plaintiff do have and recover all costs of this suit, which
are hereby taxed at $dollars, and that the defendant be
ordered to pay the same within thirty days from this date.
"Thus we pronounce, command and sign."
The case was then appealed to this court, and the following
errors assigned:
"First. That the Supreme Court of Porto Rico was without
jurisdiction of the subject-matter in controversy.

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

301
3

Argument for Appellant.

"Second. That said court was without jurisdiction of the
parties.
"Third. That the said court erred in overruling the general
demurrer and the eleven special grounds of demurrer interposed by the defendant to the complaint filed in said cause.
"Fourth. That the said court erred in rendering judgment
against defendant in said cause, upon the pleadings in said
cause, and that the judgment is contrary to the law and the
facts as stated in the pleadings in said cause.
"Fifth. That the court erred in entering judgment without
taking evidence and proofs or setting the cause upon the
docket for hearing.
"Sixth. That the said court erred in rendering judgment
in favor of the plaintiff and against the defendant in said
cause."
Mr. Frederick L. Cornwell, for appellant, submitted:
The act of the legislative assembly of Porto Rico, approved
March 10, 1904, conferring original jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of Porto Rico is absolutely void, as being contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 101;
Weimar v. Bunbiry, 30 Michigan, 214; Robertson v. Baldwin,
165 U. S. 281; Wally's Heirs v. Kennedy, 2 Yerg. (Tenn.)
554;'Guy et al. v. Hermance et al., 5 California, 73.
The act is void fo the further reason that the legislative
assembly had no power to enact a private or special law, such
being contrary to the organic act establishing civil government in Porto Rico and contrary to the acts of Congress applicable to all Territories. 31 Stat. at Large, 77 (ยง 14); 24 Stat.
at Large,'p. 170; Martin v. Territory, 8 Oklahoma, 41; S. C.,
48 Pac. Rep. 106.
The legislative assembly exceeded its power and authority
when it attempted to alter, change, amend or augment the
jurisdicti6n of the Supreme Court of Porto Rico, and the Supreme Court of Porto Rico was absolutely without the power

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellee.

210 U. S.

and authority to hear and adjudicate this case as a nisi prius
or trial court, and all the proceedings had by the Supreme
Court in this case are absolutely null and void. 31 Stat. at
Large, 77; Perris v. Higley et al., 20 Wall. 375; Territory v.
Ortiz, 1 N. M. 5; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations (3d ed.),
p. 392.
The Supreme Court of Porto Rico was without jurisdiction
of the parties, because the Roman Catholic Church in Porto
Rico is neither a natural person nor a corporation, or if a corporation then it has not complied with the laws so as to enable
it to sue and be sued in the courts of Porto Rico. The laws
of Porto Rico having specifically stated the terms under which
a foreign corporation may do business in Porto Rico, it was
necessary that the church should show that it had complied
with all these conditions before it could-be entitled to sue.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert and Mr. Howard Thayer Kingsbury,
with whom Mr. Paul Fuller was on the brief, for appellee:The law under which this suit was brought by the church
is a valid enactment of the legislative assembly of Porto Rico,
wholly within the scope of its powers under the organic act.
Kent v. Porto Rico, 207 U. S.- 113, 117. The act does not come
within the prohibitions, in the general laws of Congress relating to the Territories, as to local and special laws, etc. American Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511; Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18
Wall. 648. But whether so or not, the act under consideration
is not objectionable as a special law. Vanzant v. Waddell, 2
Yerg. 260; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards Co., 183 U. S.
105; People ex rel. Kenny v. Folks, 89 App. Div. (N. Y.) 179;
United States v. Union Pac. Co., 98 U. S. 569. See also Bank
of Columbia v. Okely, 4 Wheat. 255; Bank of Newbern v. Taylor,
6 N.
266.
Thb Roman Catholic Church in Porto Rico is a juristic personality and a legal entity under the laws of Porto Rico, as
it had always been under the Spanish laws in force in the
island at the time of the ratification of the Treaty of Paris.

PONCE v..ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Roman Catholic Church has been recognized as possessing
a legal personality and a capacity to take and acquire property since the time of the Emperor Constantine. The American law has been no less liberal in recognizing, the corporate
entity of churches than has the European and English law.
Werlein v. New Orleans, 177 U. S. 390, 401. The Holy See still
occupies a recognized position in international law of which
the courts must take judicial notice. 1 Moore's Digest of Int.
Law, pp. 130, 131.
Upon the facts stated in the petition the church has a good
title to the property in question.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought under an act of the legislative assembly
of Porto Rico, entitled "An act to confer original jurisdiction
on the Supreme Court of Porto Rico for the trial and adjudication of certain property claimed by the Roman Catholic
Church in Porto Rico," approved March 10, 1904, as follows:
"Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Porto Rico:
"SEc 1. Original jurisdiction ig hereby conferred on the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico for the trial and adjudication
of all questions now existing or which may arise, between the
Roman Catholic Church in Porto Rico and the people of
Porto Rico, affecting property rights, whether real or personal
or mixed, claimed by either party.
"SEC. 2. The Attorney General of PortoRico shall be au-

thorized to accept service for the people of Porto Rico of any
citation, summons or other process issued by said court in
said proceedings.
"SEC. 3. The Supreme Court, for the purpose of such trial
and adjudication, shall have the right to issue process for witnesses and to receive and hear testimony, and the procedure
in said cdurt shall be the same, as near as may be, as that prescribed for the District Courts of Porto Rico in civil cases, and:

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

the Supreme Court shall have full power to enter any and all
orders and decrees that may be necessary to a final and full
adjudication of all the claims of either party to the proceedings, and may issue all writs or process necessary to enforce
the jurisdiction hereby conferred' upon said court: Provided,
that the Att~rney General of Porto Rico shall at once prepare
for such hearing and trial, and if the said Roman Catholic
Church does not commence proceedings under this act within
three months after its passage and approval, then, in that
event, it shall be the duty of the Attorney General to commence
said proceedings in behalf of the insular government.
"SEc. 4. After the issues have been fully submitted to said
court upon the law and the facts, and after hearing the arguments of the respective parties, or their counsel, the court
shall enter'a final judgment and decree, fully determining the
rights of either or both of the parties, and vesting the title
t9 the subject-mrrtter of the controversy, or any part thereof,
irl such party or parties, as the court may deem entitled thereto.
The said court may issue any and all writs that may be necessary to place the parties in quiet possession of the property
so adjudicated to them, or either of them. But nothing in
this act shall be construed to limit the right of appeal, either
of the people of Porto Rico or of the Roman Catholic Church,
but either party may appeal from the final judgment or decree of said court to the Supreme Court of the United States,
in the manner provided by law for appeals to that court generally.
"SEC. 5. Original jurisdiction is hereby also conferred on
the Sipreme Court of Porto Rico for the trial and adjudication
of all questions now existing, or which may arise, between the
Roman Catholic Church in Porto Rico and any municipality
of Porto Rico, affecting property rights, whether real or personal or mixed, claimed by either party.
"SEC. 6. The mayor of any municipality within Porto Rico,
wherein may be situated any property over which such questions exist, shall be authorized to accept service for the munic-

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ipality of any citation, summons or other process issued by
said court in. said proceedings.
"SEC. 7. For the purpose of such trial and adjudication and
appeal, all the provisions of sections 3 and 4 of this act shall
be deemed applicable.
"SEC. 8. This act shall take effect from and after its passage."
The power to confer this jurisdiction 'was derived from the
act of Congress creating an organized government for Porto
Rico, approved March 2, 1901, usually called the Foraker Act,
c. 191, 31 U. S. Stat. 77.
Section 8 of this act provides:
"That the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico now in force
shall continue in full force and effect, except as altered,
amended, or modified hereinafter, or as altered or 'modified by
military orders and decrees in force when this act shall take
effect, and so far as the same are not inconsistent or in conflict
with the statutory laws of .the United States not locally inapplicable, or the provisions hereof, until altered, amended, or
repealed by the legislative authority hereinafter provided for
Porto Rico or by act of Congress of the United States."
It is further provided (ยง 15):
"That the legislative authority' hereinafter provided shall
have power by due enactment to amend, alter, modify, or
repeal any law or ordinance, civil or criminal, continued in
force by this act, as it may from time to time see fit."
The paragraph relating to the judiciary is as follows (ยง 33):
"That the judicial power shall be vested in the courts and
tribunals of Porto Rico as already established and now in
operation, including municipal courts, under and by. virtue
of General Orders, numbered 118, as promulgated by Brigadier
General Davis, United States Volunteers, August 16, 1899, and
including also the police courts established by General Orders,
numbered 195, promulgated November 29, 1899, by Brigadier
General Davis, United States Volunteers, and the laws and
ordinances of Porto Rico and the municipalities thereof in
force, so far as the same are not in conflict herewith, all of
VOL. ccx-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

which courts and tribunals are hereby continued. The jurisdiction of said courts and the form of procedure in them, and
the various officials and attach6s thereof, respectively, shall
be the same as defined and prescribed in and by said laws and
ordinances, and said General Orders, numbered 118 and 195,
until otherwise provided by law: Provided, however, that the
Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme Court and
the marshal thereof shall be appointed by the President, by
and withthe advice and consent of the Senate, and the judges
of the District Court shall be appointed by the Governor, by
and with the advice and consent of the Executive Council, and
all other officials and attaches of all the other courts shall be
chosen as may be directed by the legislative assembly, which
shall have authority to legislate from time to time as it may
see fit with respect to said courts, and any others they may
deem it advisable to establish, their organization, the number
of judges and officials and attachds for each, their jurisdiction,
their procedure, and all other matters affecting them."
Clearly under these sections of the organic act the legislative
assembly had express authorityto legislate regarding the jurisdiction and procedure of its courts. , While the jurisdiction of
the other courts might be changed, the proper interpretation
of the statute prevents the legislative assembly from passing
an act in any wise affecting the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court or the District Courts.
In Kent v. Porto Rico, 207 U. S. 113, 115, it was contended
that an act of the local legislature, creating additional judicial
districts and changing those fixed by the military orders and
local law, referred to in the organic. act, and also reducing the
number of judges in the District Court from three to one,
"was void, because in conflict with th6 provision of the thirtythird section of the act of Congress," the same one here relied
upon by the appellant as making the jurisdiction of the courts
unchangeable save by Congress.
But to that contention this court replied:
"The argument is that this local law, in so far as it changed

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the District Courts, and especially in so far as it provided for
one instead of three judges to preside over each court, was
void, because in conflict with the provision of the thirty-third
section of the act of Congress. The contention amounts to
this, that there were no District Courts in Porto Rico from the
time of the going into effect of the Porto Rican act in 1904 up
to the present time. Whilst the proposition presents a formal
Federal question, we think it is clear that it is so frivolous as to
bring it within the rule announced in American Railroad Co.'
v.Castro, supra. We say this, because we think that no other
conclusion is reasonably possible from a consideration of the
whole of section 33 of the act of Congress and the context
of that act, particularly section 15 thereof, both of which are
reproduced iin
the margin.'
"We do not deem it necessary to analyze the text of the act
of Congress to point out the inevitable result just stated, since
the obvious meaning of the act is established by a decision
heretofore rendered. Dones v. Urrutia,202 U. S. 614.
On appeal to this court the questions raised were fully argued
in printed briefs, but were deemed to be of such a frivolous
character as not to require an opinion, and were hence disposed of per curiam, referring to the provisions of the statute
and pertinent authorities."
It is true that the act of Congress of July 30, 1886, c. 818,
24 Stat. 170, enacts "that the legislatures of the Territories
of the United States now or hereafter to be organized shall not
pass local or special laws in any of the following enumerated
cases," and among the prohibitions are those against "regulating the practice in courts of justice," and granting "to any
corporation, association, or individual any special or exclusive
privilIege, immunity or franchise." But such general prohibitions have no application where specific permissionto the
contrary is granted by the organic act applying to the particular Territories.
see note at foot of p. 116, 207 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court,

210 U. S.

This act is not a special law regulating the practice in .courts
of justice nor one granting to any corporation, association or
individual any special or exclusive privilege, immunity or
franchise. It confers the same right upon the people of Porto
Rico and upon the municipalities as upon the church.
In the organic acts for the Territories (59th Congress, Senate
Doe. 148) it appears that it has been usual for Congress to give
the local legislatures the power to regulate the jurisdiction
and procedure of their courts.
In Hornbuckle v. Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, after reviewing the
question, the court, speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley,
said (p. 655):
"Whenever Congress has proceeded to organize a government for any of the Territories it has merely instituted a general system of courts therefor, and has committed to the
Territorial assembly full power, subject to a few specified or
implied conditions, of supplying. all details of legislation necessary to put the system into operation, even to the defining
of the jurisdiction of the several courts.

.

.

.

The powers

thus exercised by the Territorial legislatures are nearly as
extensive as those exercised by any State legislature; and the
jurisdiction of the Territorial courts is collectively coextensive
with and correspondent to that of the State courts.
"From a review of the entire past legislation of Congress
on the subject under consideration, our conclusion is that the
practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding of the
Territorial courts, as well as their respective jurisdictions, subject, as before said, to a few express or implied conditions in
the organic act itself, were intended to be left to the legislative
action of the Territorial assemblies, and to the regulations
which might be adopted by the courts themselves.'
The Porto Rican act under consideration merely repeats
the action of Congress in the past in organizing other Territories. The appellant contends "that the Roman Catholic
Church of Porto Rico has not the legal capacity to sue, for the

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

reason that it is not a judicial person, nor a legal entity, and
is without legal incorporation. . .
If it is a corporation
or association, we submit to the court that it is necessary for
the Roman Catholic Church to specifically allege its incorporation, where incorporated, and by virtue of what authority or
law it was incorporated, and if a foreign corporation show that,
it has filed its articles of incorporation or association in the
proper office of the government, in accordance with the laws
of Porto Rico."
Since April 11, 1899, Porto Rico has been de Ia"o and de jure
American territory. The history of Porto Rico and its legal
and political institutions up to the time of its annexation to the
United States are matters which must be recognized' by this
court as the ancient laws and institutions of many-of our States
when matters come, before it from their several jurisdictions.
The court will take judicial notice of the Spanish law as
far as it affects our insular possessions. It is pro tanto no
longer foreign law.
The Civil Code in force in Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines at the: time of the Treaty of Paris contains these provisions (Art. 35):
"Art. 35. The following are judicial persons: The corporations, associations and institutions of public interest recognized by law. Their personality begins'from the very instant
in which, in accordance with law, they are validly established."
"Art. 38. Judicial persons may acquire and possess property
of all kinds as well as contract obligations and institute civil
or criminal actions in accordance with -the laws and rules of
their establiShment.
"The church shall be governed in this particular by what
has been agreed upon by both powers and educational and
charitable institutions by the provisions of special laws."
The phrase "agreed uppn by both powers" refers to the
"concordats" or treaties between the Holy See and'the Spanish
crown, which recognize the right of the church to possess and
acquire property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

The law thus recognized at the time of the cession the juristic
personality and legal status of the church.
In Ortega v.Lara, 202 U. S. 339, 342, this court said:
"By the general rule of public law, recognized by the United States, whenever political jurisdiction and legislative power
over territory are transferred from one nation to another, the
laws of the country transferred, intended for the protection
of private rights, continue in force until abrogated or changed
by the new government. Of course, in case of cession to the
United States, laws of the ceded country inconsistent with
the Constitution and laws of the United States, so far as applicable, would cease to be of obligatory force; but otherwise
the municipal laws of the acquired country continue.
"Nevertheless, and apparently largely out of abundant
caution, the eighth section of the act of April 12, 1900, provided: 'That the laws and ordinances of Porto Rico, now in
force, shall continue in full force and effect, except as altered,
amended, or modified hereinafter, or as altered or modified
by military orders and decrees in force when this act shall
take effect, and so far as the same are not inconsistent or in
conflict with the statutory laws of the United States not
locally inapplicable, or the provisions hereof, until altered,
amended, or repealed by the legislative authority hereinafter
provided for Porto Rico or by act of Congress of the United
States,

.

Article 8 of the Treaty of Paris is to this effect:
"And it is hereby declared that the relinquishment or cession, as the case may be, to which the preceding paragraph
refers, cannot in any respect impair the property or rights
which by law belongs to the peaceful possession of property
of all kinds, of provinces, municipalities, public or private
establishments, ecclesiastical or civic bodies, oi any other
associations having legal capacity to acquire and possess property in the aforesaid territories, renounced or ceded, or of
private individuals of whatever nationality such individuals
may be."

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This clause is manifestly intended to guard the property of
the church against interference with, or spoliation by, the -new
master, either directly or through his local governmental;
agents. There can be no question that the ecclesiastical body:
referred to, so far as Porto Rico was concerned, could only be,
the Roman Catholic Church in that island, for no other eccle-:
siastical body there existed.
The mortgage law, in force in Porto Rico both before the,
cession and at present, provided for the registration generallyof "Title deeds of real property or property rights owned or
administered by the State or by civil or ecclesiastical corporations, subject to the provisions of law or regulations." (Art. 2,,
paragraph 6.)
But this was qualified by the general regulations for the'
execution of the mortgage law (see translation of general regulations for the execution of the mortgage law for Cuba, Porto,
Rico and the Philippines, War Department, 1899), which provided:
/
"Art. 25. Exceptions to the record required by article two
of the law are"First. Property which belongs exclusively to the eminent
domain of the State, and which is for the use of all, such as
the shores of the sea, islands, etc., etc., walls of cities and parts,,
ports and roadsteads, and any other analogous property during
the time they are in common and general use;
"Second. Public temples, dedicated to the Catholic faith."
Of course, the temples in question were not subject to the
.registration law, and were recognized as a peculiar class of
property, wholly different from that belonging to private
individuals.
Counsel for appellee well argues that the Roman Catholic
Church has been recognized as possessing a legal personality
and the capacityto take and acquire property since the time
of the Emperor Constantine. And he quotes from the Code of
Justinian the law of Constantine of 321 to that effect.
The strictest prohibition against alienating the property of

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.,

the church exists in that code, and it provides that the alienation of church property shall not take place, even with the
assent of all the representatives of the church, since these
rights "belong to the church," and -the churcf is the mother
of religion; and as faith is perpetual, its patrimony must be
preserved in its entirety perpetually.
In his History of Latin Christianity (vol. 1, p. 507), Dean
Milman says:
""The Christian Churches succeeded to that sanctity which
the ancient law had attributed to the temples; as soon as they
were consecrated they became public property, and could not
be alienated to any other use. The ground itself was hallowed,
and remained so even after the temple had been destroyed.
This was an axiom of the heathen Papinian. Gifts to temples
were alike inalienable, nor could they be pledged; the exception in the Justinian code betrays at once the decline of the
Roman power, and the silent progress of Christian humanity.
They could be sold or pledged for the redemption of captives,
a purpose which the old Roman law would have disdained to
contemplate."
And Milman also points out that in the barbarian codes most
sweeping provisions are found, recognizing the right of the
church to acquire property and its inalienability when acquired. Church property everywhere remained untouched by
the rude hands of invading barbarians. Trespass upon or
interference with such property was severely punished, and
gradually it became exempted from taxation.
The historic continuity of the juristic conception, exemplified by the civil law, is maintained by the Partidas, the fundamental code of ancient Spanish law, whose provisions show
that whoever built a church was required to provide it with
an adequate perpetual endowment as well as a site, and refute any idea of a retention of ownership by the donor of the
land or the contributors to the building.
In Law I, Title XI, part I, it is stated:
. .
And in addition, the churches have other privi-

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

given or sold
leges; that as to the estates which have been
or left to them lawfully by will, even if they have not received
possession of them, they get the title and right which has been
given or sold or left to them, so that they can demand them
for their own against whomsoever may hold them."
In Law I, Title XIV, part I, we find a general prohibition
against the alienation of church property, certain exceptions
being enumerated.
While Law II provides that when alienation is permitted
it shall be made only by the prelates, with the authorization
of their chapters; that lands shall be sold only in default of
sufficient personalty to meet the requirements of the case,
and that lands given by the Emperor or the King shall never
be alienated.
Then Law VI, Title XXIX, part III, the law governing prescription, provided that "a consecrated, or holy, or religious
thing cannot be acquired by lapse of time."
Again, 'Law XXVI, Title XXIX, part III, provided that
lands belonging to the church (but apparently not actually
consecrated) cannot be acquired by prescription in less than
forty years; that destructible personal effects can be acquired
by prescription in three years; and then: "But the others
which belong to the Church of Rome exclusively cannot be
acquired by any one in less than one hundred years."
This was in substance the law of Spain and the re-st of Europe
throughout the middle ages, certain modifications being made
in the way of prohibitions limiting the right to give to th'e
church, which in. no way affected the juristic personality of the.
church or its general right to hold and acquire property in its
corporate capacity.
As to England, the concept of the church as a corporation
was worked out by the English canonists and fully recognized
by the ordinary law courts before the end of the fourteenth
century, and Pollock and Maitland show that the English
ecclesiastical law was practically similar to that of continental
Europe in its recognition of the property rights of the :church.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

In this country it was held in Terrett v. Taylor (1815), 9
Cranch, 43, that the legislature of Virginia could not authorize
any persons to take land formerly granted to the Church of
England. Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court, says
(p. 49):
"Be, however, the general authority of the legislature as to
the subject of religion, as it may, it will require other arguments
to establish the position' that, at the Revolution, all the public
property acquired by the Episcopal churches, under the sanction of the laws, became the property of the State. Had the
property thus acquired been originally granted by the State
or the King, there might have been some color (and it would
have been but a color) for such an extraordinary pretension.
But the property was, in fact and in law, generally purchased
by the parishioners or acquired by the benefactions of pious
donors. The title thereto was indefeasibly vested in the
churches, or rather in their legal agents. It was not in the
power of the crown to seize or assume it; nor of the Parliament
itself to destroy the grants, unless by the exercise of a power
the most arbitrary, oppressive and unjust, and endured only
because it could not be resisted.

.

.

.

Nor are we able

to perceive any sound reason why the church lands escheated
or devolved upon the State by the Revolution any more than
the property of any other corporation created by the royal
bounty or-established by the legislature."
This court further held that it made no difference whether the
church was a" voluntary society or clothed with corporate
powers, and the local authorities were, restrained from interfering with the church property or claiming title thereto.
It is the settled law of this court that a dedication to a public
or charitable use may exist, even where there is no specific
corporate entity to takq as grantee. Werlein v. New Orleans,
177 U. S. 390, 401, and see Beatty v. Kurtz, 2 Pet. 566.
The Spanish law as to the juristic capacity of the church at
the time of the cession merely followed the principles of the
Roman law, which haVe had such universal acceptance, both

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

315,

Opinion of the Court.

in the law of continental Europe and in the common law of
England.
Roman Catholicism has been the official religion of Spain
since the time of the Visigoths. As far as the church in Spanish-America was concerned, the King of Spain was supreme
patron. See Alcubilla, vol. 8, p. 662.
The laws enacted in Spain for the government of the Indies,
and promulgated at different periods, were compiled by order
of Philip IV in 1661, in the " Recopilacion " of the Laws of the
Indies, of which a subsequent edition was published. This is
the only authentic collection of the ordinances and decrees
governing Spanish-America prior to the year 1860. Alcubilla,
vol. 9, p. 936.
Under the bulls of Julius II and Alexander XI there were
conceded to the Spanish crown all the tithes of the Indies, under
the condition of endowing the church and providing the priests
with proper support. The church in Spanish-America, through
this royal patronage, came into possession of considerable
properties. The right of the church to own, maintain and hold
such properties was unquestioned, and the church continued in
undisputed possession thereof.
In the year 1820 the Spanish. revolutionary government
passed certain confiscatory laws as to monasteries and other
ecclesiastical foundations, but even these revolutionary enactments left the actual temples undisturbed.
There was further legislation to the same effect in 1835, and
again in 1837, but this legislation does not appear to have ever
been extended to the colonies, although it was wrongfully but
effectually applied there by the seizure of church properties,
afterwards agreed to be restored by the concordats of 1851 and
1859. After more than twenty-five years of intermittent conflict between church and state, the Spanish government and
the papacy concluded the concordat of March 16, 1851, which
had in Spain the force of law, and which was promulgated in
the insular possessions. Alcubilla, vol. 3, p. 94, Diccionario de
La Administracion Espafiola.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

By the first article of this concordat it is provided:
"That the Catholic apostolic religion, to the exclusion of any
other religion whatever, shall continue to be the sole religion
of the Spanish nation, and will always be preserved in the domains of His Catholic Majesty, with all the rights and privileges,
which it ought to enjoy, according to the law of God and the
provisions of its sacred canons."
Article 11 of the Spanish constitution of 1876 is to the same
effect. Alcubilla, vol. 3, p. 357.
There are numerous provisions in the concordat fixing the
amounts to be paid by the State for the support of the church
and for the settlement of other causes of difficulty between the
crown and the Roman See, and art. 41 specifically recognizes
the church's "right of property in everything it now possesses
or may hereafter acquire." Alcubilla, vol. 3, p. .109.
In. 1859, as a further guaranty of the property rights of the
church, an additional concordat was made between the Spanish
crown and the Roman See. The first article of this, reciting
the unfortunate events by reason of which ecclesiastical properties have been wrongfully taken, obligates the Spanish crown
not to sell or alienate any of these properties without the permission of the Holy See.
The third article reads as follows:
"Art. 3. Especially the government of His Majesty again
formally recognizes the full and free right of the church to
acquire, retain and enjoy in full property right and without
limitation or reserve all kinds of property and values, renouncing in consequence by this treaty any disposition contrary
hereto -and particularly those which may be contained in the
law of May 1st, 1855. The properties which in virtue of this
right the church may acquire and possess in future are not to be
considered as part of the donation which is assigned to it by
the concordat."
The difficulties between church and state incident to the
revolutionary movement were thus adjusted, but in 1868,
during the regime of the provisional government, there were

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

certain decrees closing all conventual establishments, etc., but
the relations between the church and the government were
finally restored by King Alfonso XII, who, in January, 1875,
issued a decree, returning to the church all the property belonging to the clergy which was still in the hands of the government.
None of these revolutionary decrees disturbed actual church
edifices, but were directed almost wholly against- conventual
properties, belonging to the various congregations or monastic
orders. The attacks were directed against the property of the
regular clergy and not that of the seculars.
Under the civil law of Spain, the collection of tithes and first
fruits of land and stock: was obligatory. First, they were
collected by the church, but later collected by the government
and turned over to the church. The levy of such tithes finally
disappeared under the concordat, because the government
paid all expenses of worship.
In Report No. 2977, Senate Doc. 57th Congress, 2d Session,
the subject was discussed, and, in accordance with the terms of
the concordat, down to the occupation of Porto Rico by the
American troops in August, 1898, amounts were regularly
appropriated by the Spanish Government for the expenses of
worship in Spain, Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines.
At the date of the American military occupation neither the
State nor the municipalities, directly or indirectly, disputed or
questioned the legitimate ownership and possession by the
church of the property occupied by her, including temples,
parochial houses, seminaries and ecclesiastical buildings of
every description. It is only since the occupation that some of
the ayuntamientos have evinced a desire to deprive the church
of her temples, under the pretext that they were built with
municipal funds.
At the time of the American occupation the Catholic Church
was the only church in the island. In 1900, Governor Allen,
in the first annual report, said, p. 54:
"Out of the 953,243 inhabitants of Porto Rico, there are
nearly 950,000 Catholics, and there is a Catholic church in

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

every town and village and in the larger towns and cities
several; in the city of San Juan there are eight, including the
cathedral. Nearly all these are well-built structures, occupying
central locations, and are ornaments to the towns where situated. There are many parochial schools and other church
institutions, belonging to the Catholics. . . . None of the
public money is now used in the salaries of clergymen or otherwise in the support of religion. All such expenses are defrayed,
as in the United States, by voluntary contribution of the congregation and friends on the continent. The controversies
formerly existing between the municipal and the church
authorities concerning the ownership of church property havg
not yet been settled."
This was the status at the moment of the annexation, and by
reason of the treaty, as well as under the rules of international
law prevailing among civilized nations, this property is inviolable.
The corporate existence of the lioman Catholic Church, as
well as the position occupied by the papacy, has always been
recognized by the Government of the United States.
At one time the United -States maintained diplomatic relations with the Papal States, which continued up to the time of
the loss of the temporal power of the papacy. Moore's Digest
of Int. Law, vol. 1, pp. 130, 131.
The Holy See still occupies a recognized position in international law, of which the courts must take judicial notice.
"The Pope, though deprived of the territorial dominion
which he formerly enjoyed, holds, as sovereign pontiff and head
of the Roman Catholic Church, an exceptional position.
Though, in default of territory, he is not a temporal sovereign,
he is in many respects treated as such. He has the right of
active and passive legation, and his envoys of the first class,
his apostolic nuncios, are specially privileged. Nevertheless
he does not make war, and the conventions which he concludes
with states are not called treaties, but concordats. His relations with the Kingdom of Italy are governed, unilaterally, by

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Italian law of May 13, 1871, called 'the law of guarantees,'
against which Pius IX and Leo XIII have not ceased to protest." 1 Moore's Dig. 39.
After the cession of Louisiana by France to the United States
certain questions came up as to the title to lands granted by
the King of Spain to the Roman Catholic Church. The opinion
of Attorney General Wirt, having been asked thereon, he wrote
as follows, 1 Op. Atty. Gen. 563.
"There can be no doubt of the power of the King of Spain
to grant lands in Florida while the province was his, nor of the
capacity of the Roman Catholic Church to take by grant.
Our treaty with Spain recognizes and ratifies all such grants
made prior to a certain day."
The proposition, therefore, that the church had no corporate
or jural personality seems to be completely answered by an
examination of the law and history of the Roman Empire, of
Spain and of Porto Rico down to the time of the cession, and
by the recognition accorded to it as an ecclesiastical body by
the Treaty of Paris and by the law of nations.
Appellant claims that there were some laws of Porto Rico
which should have been complied with before the Roman
Catholic Church could have any corporate existence or right to
sue. It may be assumed that he refers to the various laws of
Porto Rico relating to the formation and regulation of business
corporations. But it is plain that none of these laws have any
application to the church and never were so intended.
If the people of Porto Rico had passed some law, by which
the manner of holding properties by ecclesiastical bodies
through trustees or otherwise, or the method in which such
body should be represented before the courts were prescribed,
a different question would arise. But there was no such law,
and by the Spanish law, from the earliest moment of the settlement of the island to the present' time, the corporate existence
of the Catholic Church has been recognized. As counsel for the
appellee says: " At the very least, and even assuming that for
centuries the church had not been recognized as a body of equal

320

OCTOIER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

importance with the State in Porto Rico, but that it was a
merely de facto organization or association holding property
it would nevertheless have sufficient standing to maintain 'this
suit."

There is no pretense in the corporation law of regulating the
manner in which the Roman'Catholic Church or any other
religious corporation or body shall hold its property. No question of conformity to any law of "Soci dt ds Cultuelles" or of
"Associations" or religious societies can here arise, since there
are no statutes relating to any such. genus of legal or artificial
persons.

The general law as to corporations is found in Titles I and II
of the Civil Code now in force. We give in the margin sections
27-30 and part of section 65.1
'SEC. 27. The following are artificial persons:

(1) Corporations, associations and institutions of public interest, having
artificial personality recognized by law.
The personality of such bodies shall commence from the moment of their
establishment in accordance with law.
(2) Private associations, whether civil, commercial or industrial, to which
the law grants legal personality.
SEC. 29. The civil status of corporations shall be governed by the laws
which create or recognize them; that of associations by their by-laws; and
that of institutions by the rules of their establishment duly approved by
administrative action when such requisite be necessary.
SEc. 30. Artificial persons may acquire and possess property of all kinds
and also contract obligations and institute civil and criminal actions in accordance with the laws and regulation of their establishment.
SEc. 65. All corporations or joint stock companies, organized under the
laws of any State, or of the United States, or of any foreign government, shall,
before doing business within this island, file in the office of the secretary a
duly authenticated copy of their charters or articles of incorporation, and.
also a statement verified by the oath of the president and secretary of said
corporation, and attested by the majority of its board of directors, showing(I) The name of such corporation and the location of its principal office
or place of business, without this island; and if it is to have any place of
business or principal office within this island, the location theeof.
(2) The amount of its capital stock.
(3) The amouht of its capital stock actually paid in, in money.
(4) The amount of its capital stock paid in, in any other way, and in what,

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

Domestic corporation law is equally inapplicable. Its terms
are found in the Civil Code, Title II, chap. I, and have reference
solely to business or commercial corporations. No religious,
eleemosynary or charitable corporation can fall within its purview. Stock, stockholders, capital, surplus, officers, directors,
the doing of business are the basic elements of this statute.
The properties of the church in Cuba and the Philippines at
the time of the ratification of the treaty were far more considerable than those in Porto Rico. And the controversies or
questions arising as to those properties have been quite generally adjusted in both Cuba and the Philippines partly with and
partly without recourse to the courts. In Cuba a commission
was appointed to consider the whole question and its report
contains much interesting and pertinent information. It begins
with the fundamental proposition that: "The church, as a
juridical person, has held and holds the right to acquire, possess,
or transfer all kinds of properties. The church has never been
denied this right in Spain; rather, on the contrary, in all the
provisions covering these matters this right has been recognized
in the church," Sen. Rep. 2977, 57th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 12.
On this admitted basis was concluded a satisfactory adjustment of the difficult problem incident to the transfer of sovereignty from a regime of union of church and state to the American system of complete separation.
Even greater difficulties were settled in the Philippines, and
the American Government never suggested that the church was
without juristic capacity to possess or protect property rights.
The suggestion that it did not possess a license from the local
authorities "to do business" was never put forward.
Whether these ecclesiastical properties originally came from
the State or any subdivision thereof, they were donated to, at
once became and have ever since remained the property and in
the peaceful possession of the Roman Catholic Church.
In the Philippines, the Supreme Court of the islands has
recently. treated these questions in an interesting and satisfactory opinion. Barlin v. Ramirez, 7 Philippines, 41, The sugVOL. ccx-21

OCTOBER TERI, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

gestion, made there as here, that the church was not a legal person entitled to maintain its property rights in the courts, the
Supreme Court answered by saying that it did not require
serious consideration when " made with reference to an institution which antedates by almost a thousand years any other
personality in Europe."
It is urged that the complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute any cause of action, and that it admits that the
property in question was constructed out of funds of the municipality of Ponce, Porto Rico. This contention has been sufficiently answered. Counsel for appellee rightly says that"Whether the property originally came from the crown or the
local government is immaterial, since it had been for centuries
recognized as the property of the church. Because the Spanish
crown or one of its municipal agencies chose to donate churches
some years or centuries ago, it scarcely follows that it can now
be claimed that the gift is revocable, and that the municipality
may now expropriate the church and convert the property to
any purpose it may desire."
In his statement to His Holiness, the Pope, when on special
mission, Mr. Taft, the then Governor General of the Philippines, said, in referring to those islands:
"The transfer of sovereignty and all governmental property
rights and interests from the crown of Spain to the United
States in the Philippine Islands contained in the Treaty of
Paris was a transfer from a government between which and the
Church of Rome there had been in those islands the closest
association in property, religion, and politics, to a government
which by the law of its being is absolutely prevented from
having such associations with any church. To make the
transfer effectual, and, at the same time just, it is obvious that
the proper line of division must be drawn between what were
really civil property interests of the crown of Spain and what
were religious trusts of the Catholic Church, and that all union
of civil and clerical agencies for performance of political functions must end." Report of the Secretary of War, 1902, p. 237.'

PONCE v. ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1, 53, Mr..

Justice Bradley said:
" By the Spanish law, whatever was given to the service of
(od, became incapable of private ownership, being held by the
clergy as guardians or trustees;

.

.

when property was

given for a particular object,, as a church, a hospital, a convent
or a community, etc., and the object failed, the property did
not revert to the donor, or his heirs, but devolved to the crown,
the church or other commune or community," etc.
All the public funds employed in church buildings and other
property were appropriated for that purpose without any reservation or restriction whatevu:, being approved according to,
law by the representatives of the nation in the Cortes; or by,
those of the towns in the common councils. Therefore the
application of funds thus appropriated and voted by the
legitimate mandataries of the nation or of the municipalities
constituted, from the standpoint of law and justice, a perfect,'
irrevocable gift.
Certain objections in the nature of matters of procedure made
by appellant we do not think we need consider. They may be,
classified as follows:
(1) Misjoinder of causes of action; (2) Insufficiency and
irregularity of form; (3) Bar of statute of limitations; and (4)
Lack of authority to bring suit in name of the church.
We do not regard either of these as possessing sufficient.
merit to require discussion.
We accept the conclusions of appellee's counsel as thus
summarized:
"First. The legislative assembly of Porto Rico had the'
power to confer jurisdiction on the Supreme Court of the island
of this special class of controversies. Such legislation was not
contrary to the constitution and was in conformity with the
power conferred by Congress upon the legislative assembly
.to regulate the jurisdiction of the courts.
"Second. The Roman Catholic Church has been recognized
as possessing legal personality by the treaty of Paris and its

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

property rights solemnly safeguarded. In so doing the treaty
has merely followed the recognized rule of international law
which would have protected the property of the church in
Porto Rico subsequent to the cession. This juristic personality
and the church's ownership of property had been recognized in
the most formal way by the concordats between Spain and the
papacy and by the Spanish laws from the beginning of settlements in the Indies. Such recognition has also been accorded
the church by all systems of European law from the fourth
century of the Chrisian era.
"Third. The fact that the municipality may have furnished
some of the funds for building or repairing the churches cannot
affect the title of the Roman Catholic Church, to whom such
funds were thus irrevocably donated and by whom these
temples were erected and dedicated to religious uses."

Decree affirmed.

DELMAR JOCKEY CLUB v. MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 219. Argued April 29, 30, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Even if the state court erred in a proceeding over which it has exclusive
jurisdiction such error would not afford a basis for reviewing its judgment
in this court.
The mere assertion by plaintiff in error that the judgment of the state
court deprived him of his property by unequal enforcement of the law in
violation of Federal immunities specially set up does not create a Federal
question where there is no ground for such a contention, and the state
court followed its conception of the rules of pleading as expounded in its
previous decisions.
Where the asserted Federal questions are so plainly devoid of merit as not
to constitute a basis for the writ of error the writ will be dismissed.
Whether a Missouri corporation has forfeited its charter by nonuser and
misuser under the law of the State does not involve a Federal question,
and a proceeding regularly brought by the Attorney General in the

