OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

averred that the said Folsom, upon whom the process was
served, was on the day of the service of the original writ in this
cause, to wit, on the second day of May, A. D. 1904, a person
residing within the State of Vermont, upon whom service of
process issued against the defendant might be legally made,
to wit, an agent of this defendant. To this replication the defendant demurred. The demurrer was overruled. Without
going into the question whether the motion to dismiss, and also
the demurrer, were not waived by pleading to the merits after
the motion had been' denied and the demurrer overruled, we
think the facts sufficiently appear that Folsom, the division
superintendent, was an agent within the Vermont statute upon
whom attachment process, such as was issued in this case,
might be regularly served. Accordingly, a valid service upon
the principalj within the law of Vermont, was duly made, and
jurisdiction was acquired by that service.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

SANDERSON v. UNITED STATES AND THE CHEYENNE
INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 208. Argued April 22, 23, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The provisions of § 1088, Rev; Stat., relative to new trials in Court of Claims
cases are applicable to cases brought under the Ihdian Depredations Act
of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 851.

The motion for new trial on behalf of the United States in Court of Claims
cases under the provisions of § 1088, Rev. Stat., may be made any time
within two years after final disposition of the claim, and, if so made, the
motion may be decided by the court after the expiration of the two years
period.
While ordinarily a court has no power to grant a new trial after the adjournment of the term if no application was made previous to the adjournment, the power so to do can be given by statute, and where a
government consents to be sued, as the United States has in the Court

SANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of Claims, it may attach whatever conditions it sees fit to the consent
and give to itself distinct advantages, such as right to apply for new
trial after the term, although such right is not given to claimants.

ON the eighth of June, 1891, the appellant herein filed his
petition in the Court of Claims, under the Indian Depredations
Act, approved March 3, 1891, c. 538, 26 Stat. 851, to recover for
losses of property sustained by the firm, of which, at the time
of filing the petition, he was the surviving partner, from the
depredations committed by members of a tribe of Cheyenne
Indians in the year 1867, in or near the State of Kansas.
.The petition contained the averments that the firm was at
the time of the depredations engaged in the business of operating the Southern Overland Mail and Express Route, between
the then terminus of the Union Pacific Railway and the city
of Santa F6, New Mexico, and was carrying the mails of the
United States between those points.
Subsequently to such depredations two of the members of
the firm died, and at the time of the filing of the petition the
,
petitioner was left as the sole surviving partner.
The depredations were committed by taking unlawfully and
by force or stealth from the possession of the firm, and.in or
near the State of Kansas, some thirty-seven mules and six
horses, used by the firm in the operation of its business.
Under certain acts of Congress of March 3, 1885, c. 341, 23
Stat. 362, 376, and May 15, 1886, c. 333, 24 Stat.,29, 44, the
claim of the firm for the recovery of the losses thus sustained
was submitted to the investigation of the Secretary of the
Interior, and, after investigation, the Secretary reported to
Congress on December 7, 1886, finding that the firm had a
just and equitable claim upon the United States for the amount
of $7,740, the value of the animals as ascertained by the Secretary, who recommended the payment of that sum. Congress
never appropriated anything for the payment of any part of
the sum recommended. The amount awarded was not as
large as the firm claimed was the value of the property de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Statement of the Case.

210 U. S.

stroyed, but, for reasons stated in the petition to the court,
it was not attempted to correct the injustice by reopening
the question of the value upon the trial of the case before
the Court of Claims.
The petition also contained an allegation that the tribe to
which the Indians belonged who committed the depredations
was at the time the loss occurred in amity with the United
States.
After the filing of the petition the parties agreed on the facts,
and, among others, it was agreed that the Indians took and
destroyed the property belonging to the claimant without just
cause or provocation, and that the Indians who took the property were members of the Cheyenne tribe, which was at the
time of the commigsion of the depredations in amity and treaty
relations with the United States.
The case was submitted to the court on the thirtieth day of
June, 1892, and on the eleventh day of October, 1892, judgment was entered in favor of the claimant for the sum of
$7,740, being the amount which had theretofore been reported
to Congress by the Secretary of the Interior.
On the sixth day of October, 1894, the Assistant Attorney
General filed in the clerk's office of the Court of Claims, while
the court was in recess, a motion for a new trial in accordance
with the provisions of § 1088 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, the ground of such motion being that in awarding judgment in favor of the claimant wrong and injustice
had been done to the United States, because the defendant,
the Cheyenne Indians, were not in amity with the United States
at the time of the depredations which form the basis of the
suit.
The Court of Claims on the thirteenth day of April, 1896,
granted the motion for a new trial, and upon the new trial
which was thereafter had the court found as a fact that at the
time of the several depredations alleged in the petition the
defendant Indians were hostile, and, as a conclusion of law,
the court decided that the petition should be and the same

SANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

was dismissed, and judgment upon such finding and conclusion
was entered in the court on the twenty-third day of April,
1906.
The claimant, on the seventeenth day of September, 1906,
moved to vacate the judgment entered upon the new trial,
and asked that the original judgment entered on the eleventh
of October, 1892, should be reinstated and affirmed. The
motion was denied, and on the twenty-fourth day of December, 1906, the claimant appealed to this court.
Mr. Jackson H. Ralston and Mr. William E. Richardson,
with whom Mr. Frederick L. Siddons was on the brief, for
appellant:
The Court of Claims had no power, under § 1088 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, to vacate a judgment by
granting a motion for new trial four years after the judgment
was entered.
The Supreme Court will review this issue on appeal from
final judgment after the motion for new trial has been granted
as it is only by means of such appeal that this court can act.
Young, Trustee, v. United States, 94 U. S.(4 Otto) 258, and
95 U. S.(5 Otto) 641.
The Court of Claims made an erroneous ruling in the Bellocq
case, 13 C. Cls. 195, which it relies upon to sustain the granting of the new trial in this case. The theory upon which the
Bellocq case proceeded, namely, that in the absence of an express statutory prohibition, the Court of Claims may grant
a motion for a new trial at any time, and that the statute in
question, because it employs the term "may grant" within two
years, does not forbid the granting of the motion after that
period, was directly refuted by, the opinion of this court in
Belknap v. United States, 150 U. S.588.
By the rule of the common law the trial court was required
to dispose of the motion during the term. Belknap v. United
States, 150 U. S.588; Buckner v. Conly, 17 Ky. (1 T. B. M.) 3;
Truett v. Legg, 32 Maryland, 149.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Appellees.

210 U. S.

By examination of the judicial systems of many States, it
is found that although the majority merely require the motion
for new trial to be presented within a limited time, a large
number have not fixed any time for the filing of the motion,
but have statutes similar to the one under consideration, determining the period within which the court may grant a new
trial.
The identical question raised here was decided in favor of
appellants' contention in Vaughan v. O'Connor, 12. Nebraska,
478.
The principal other decisions in the several States having
similar statutes upon this subject either requiring the motion
to be determined within a fixed number of days, or within the
term, or within the next succeeding term after judgment, all
of which support the claimant's contention in this case, are
as follows: Ex parte Highland Avenue & Belt R. Co., 105 Alabama, 221; Hundley v. Yonge, 69 Alabama, 89; Fitzpatrick's
Admr. v. Hill, 9 Alabama, 783; Ruff v. Hand (Arizona, 1890),
24 Pac. Rep. 257; Walker v. Jefferson, 5 Arkansas, 23; Redman
v. Reynolds, 114 Indiana, 148; Crews v. Ross, 44 Indiana, 481
(487); Hays v. May, 35 Indiana, 427; Ferger v. Wesler, 35
Indiana, 53; Buckner v. Conly, 17 Kentucky, 3; England v.
Duckworth, 75 S.Car. 309; Clements v. Buckner (Texas, 1904),
80 S. W. Rep. 235; Lightfoot v. Wilson, 11 Tex. Civ. App. 151;
S. C., 32 S.W. Rep. 331; Laird v. State, 15 Texas, 317; McKean v. Zillner, 9 Texas, 58.
*It cannot be said that the appellant waived any rights by
proceeding to trial after the granting of the motion for new
trial. There was no right of appeal- from the order, and it was
his duty to participate in the new trial, and bring up this question on appeal from final judgment. United States v. Young,
94 U. S. 258.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General John G. Thompson, with
whom Mr. Lincoln B. Smith, Assistant Attorney, was on the
brief, for appellees.

SANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The sole question in this case arises from the action of the
Court of Claims in granting, upon the application of the Government, a new trial, April 13, 1896, more than two years
subsequent to the entry of judgment in favor of the claimant
on the eleventh day of October, 1892, although the application
for such new trial had been filed October 6, 1894, which was
less than two years after the entry of that judgment. The
order was made under §-1088 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, which reads as follows:
"SEC. 1088. The Court of Claims, at any time while any
claim is pending before it, or on appeal from it, or within two
years next after the final disposition of such claim, may, on
motion on behalf of tle United States, grant a new trial and
stay the payment of any judgment theiein, upon such evidence,
cumulative or otherwise, as shall satisfy the court that any
fraud, wrong, or injustice in the premises has been done to the
United States; but until an order is made staying the payment
of a judgment, the same shall be payable and paid as now provided by law."
The motion was made pursuant to instructions contained in
the act of Congress, approved August 23, 1894, c. 307, 28 Stat.
424, 476, which made appropriations to pay the judgments of
the Court of Claims in this case, and 258 other Indian depredation cases. The provision in the last part of § 1 of that act
is as follows:
"That no one of the said judgments shall be paid until the
Attorney General shall have certified to the Secretary of the
Treasury that he has caused to be examined the evidence
heretofore presented to the Court of Claims in support of said
judgment and such other pertinent evidence as he shall be
able to procure as to whether fraud, wrong, or injustice has
been done to the United States, or whether exorbitant sums
have been allowed, and finds upon such 'evidence no grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

sufficient in his opinion to support a new trial of said case;
or until there shall have been filed with said Secretary a duly
certified transcript of the proceedings of the Court of Claims
denying the motion made by the Attorney General for a new
trial in any one of said judgments."
The Attorney General examined the evidence therefore
presented to the Court of Claims, and filed a motion for a new
trial in this and many other cases. The motions in this case,
and the others, were filed within two years from the dates of
the respective judgments, but it is admitted that none of them
was acted upon by the Court of Claims within that period.
The Court of Claims was not in session when the statute of
August 20, 1894, was passed nor when the motions for a new
trial were filed in the clerk's office of that court, and it did not
convene after the summer vacation until October 22, at which
date more than two years had elapsed since the rendition of
the judgment in this case.
It has been held by the Court of Claims (and,
as we think,
correctly) that § 1088 is applicable to the Indian Depredations
Act of 1891 (26 Stat. 851). McCollum v. United States, 33
C. Cl. 469, 472.
The appellant contends that the statute must be so construed as to require the decision of the motion for a new trial
within two years after the final disposition of the case, and
hence that the motion should have been not only filed in
the clerk's office, but decided by the court on or before October 11, 1894. The Government contends that as the motion
was filed within the two years subsequent to the entry of
the judgment, the court obtained jurisdiction over the motion,
and it might be decided after the expiration of the two years.
Upon the theory of the appellant the accident of an adjournment of the court some months before and its failure again to
meet until a few days after the expiration of the two years
subsequent to the entry of the judgment, deprived the court
of the jurisdiction to hear and decide the question of the
application for a new trial, although such application was

SANDERSON v. UNITED STATES.
210 U. 8.

Opinion of the Court.
C

filed in its clerk's office within the two years limited by the
statute.
Ordinarily a court has no power to grant a new trial
after the adjournment of the term if no application has
been made previous to the adjournment and no continuance
granted. Belknap v. United States, 150 U. S. 588. This act,
however, is a peculiar one. It grants distinct advantages
to the United States. United States v. Ayres,.9 Wall. 608;
Henry v. United States, 15 Ct. Cl. 162. These advantages
Congress was competent to grant. The Government consents to be sued in regard to claims of this nature, and
may attach such conditions to its consent as to it may seem
proper. Among other conditions a to the finality of the
judgments of the court it has empowered such court to grant
a new trial on motion of the United States, pursuant to the
section named.
The facts agreed upon on the first trial did not prevent the
court from granting a new trial under that section. Indeed,
the act of 1894, supra, really directs the court to grant a new
trial if. the facts are sufficient to bring the case within the
provisions of §1088.
We think the motion for a new'trial may be made or filed
at any time within the two years as provided for, and it is not
necessary that the court should decide the motion within that
time. If the Government has the whole two years in which
to apply (and there is certainly nothing in the statute which
limits the time to less than two years) it could not reasonably
be held that an application made near the end of the two
years must, nevertheless, be decided within that-time. The
motion might be filed at the last moment before the expiration of the two years, and if so, the court should have time to
thereafter act upon it, or else the two-year limitation in which
to file the motion is practically denied. If the motion must
be decided within the two years, it must, of course, be fied
sufficiently long before the expiration of that period to allow
the court what it may regard as a sufficient time to decide it

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

intelligently within the limitation. How long that time may
be it is impossible to say. It would be for the court to determine in each case. The result of such a construction is that
there is no certain and definite time within which the motion
for a new trial must be made, but it must be long enough before the expiration of the two years to give the court the time
it may require in which to act upon the motion. This uncertainty we do not think was intended, nor is it-the proper
construction of the statute. When it limits the time to two
years it is a limitation of the time for filing the motion and not
a limitation of the time for making a decision, if the motion
has been filed within the two years.
There is not much assistance to be obtained by referring to
decisions of the state courts in relation to statutes of a somewhat similar nature, applicable to the ordinary law courts of the
State. They depend very much upon the special language of
the various statutes, all of which differ somewhat from the one
under discussion. In addition to that, however, the peculiar
nature of the Court of Claims itself must be considered. Congress created it for the -sole purpose of permitting certain
classes of claims against the Government to be presented to
and passed upon by it, under the conditions which Congress
might from time to time prescribe. The statute must therefore be so construed as to give full effect to such various conditions which Congress imposes upon the claimant for the
privileges accorded him. A right on the part of the United
States to move for a new trial should be so construed as not
to limit the right by any technical or narrow reasoning, but
the whole two years should be allowed in which to make the
motion. Some States have enacted statutes limiting the time
within which applications of this nature may be made, and
they have been held complied with if the application is made
within the time limited, although the decision is made subsequently. In other States the courts have regarded the time
limitation as applicable to the time when the decision of the
question submitted is rendered. We do not regard it as hc.

CLEVELAND & ST. LOUIS RY. v. PORTER.
210 U. S.

177

Syllabus.

essary to cite them. The statutes differ, and the reasoning
of the courts also.
The question of the construction of this particular act has
heretofore been before the Court of Claims in Bellocq v. United States, 13 C. Cl. 195. The court there held that the limi-

tation referred to the time of making the motion, and not to
the time of its decision. We think the reasoning of Chief Jusiice Drake in that case is sound. See, also, Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S. 62; McCollum v. United States, 33 C. Cl. 469.

Having two years in which to file its motion for a new trial
the Government was in time in this case when it filed its motion with the clerk of the court, the court itself being then in

recess, and it could thereafter hear and decide the case at its
convenience.

The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition
is
Affirmed.
CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO AND ST. LOUIS

RAILWAY COMPANY v. PORTER.
ERROR TO DIVISION NUMBER TWO OF THE APPELLATE COURT OF
THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 213.

Argued April 27, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

It is within the legislative power of a State to create special taxing districts
and to charge the cost of local improvements, in whole or in part, upon the
property in said district either according to valuation or area, and the
legislature may also classify the owners of property abutting on the improvement made and those whose property lies a certain distance back of
it, and if all property owners have an equal opportunity to be heard when
the assessment is made the owners of the "back lying" property are not
deprived of their property without due process of law or denied the equal
protection of the laws.
The Barrett paving law of Indiana, the constitutionality of which was sustained by this court as to abutting property owners in Shaffer v. Werling,
188 U. S. 516; Hibben v. Smith, 191 U. S. 310, sustained also as '? back
lying property owners following Voris v. Pittsburg Plate Glass Co., 163.
Indiana, 599.
38 Ind. App. 226, affirmed.

VOL. ccx-12

