LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

LONDONER v. CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.
No. 157.

Argued March 6, 9, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

The legislature -of a State may authorize municipal improvements without
any petition of landowners to be assessed therefor, and proceedings of a
municipality in accordance with charter provisions and without hearings
authorizing an improvement do not deny due process of law to land-,
owners who are afforded a hearing upon the assessment itself.
The decision of a state court that a city council properly determined that
the board of public works had acted within its jurisdiction under the city
charter does not involve a Federal question reviewable by this court.
Where the state court has construed a state statute so as to bring it into
harmony with the Federal and state constitutions, nothing in the Fourteenth Amendment gives this court power to review the decision on the
ground that the state court exercised legislative power in construing the
statute in that manner and thereby violated that Amendment.
There are few constitutional restrictions on the power of the States to assess,
apportion and collect taxes, and in the enforcement of such restrictions
this court has regard to substance and not form, but where the legislature
commits the determination of the tax to a subordinate body, due process
of law requires that the taxpayer be afforded a hearing of which he must
have notice, and this requirement is not satisfied by the mere right to file
objections; and where, as in Colorado, the taxpayer has no right to object
to an assessment in court, due process of law as guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment requires that he have the opportunity to support his
objections by argument and proof at some time and place.
The denial of due process of law by municipal authorities while acting as a
board of equalization amounts to a denial by the State.
33 Colorado, 104, reversed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joshua Freeman Grozier for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. F. W. Sanborn and Mr. Halsted L. Ritter, with whom Mr.
Henry A. Lindsley was on the brief, for defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE MOODY

210 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiffs in error began this proceeding in a state court
of Colorado to relieve lands owned by them from an assessment
of a tax for the cost of paving a street upon which the lands
abutted. The relief sought was granted by the trial court,
but its action was reversed by the Supreme Court of the State,
which ordered judgment for the defendants. 33 Colorado, 104.
The case is here on writ of error. The Supreme Court held that
the tax was assessed in conformity with the constitution and
laws of the State, and its decision on that question is conclusive.
The assignments of error relied upon are as follows:
"First. The Supreme Court of Colorado erred in holding
and deciding that the portion of proviso 'eighth' of section 3
of article 7 of 'An Act to Revise and Amend the Charter of
the City of Denver, Colorado, signed and approved by the
Governor of Colorado, April 3, 1893' (commonly called the
Denver City Charter of 1893), which provided, 'And the finding
of the city council by ordinance that any improvements provided for in this article were duly ordered after notice duly
given, or that a petition or remonstrance was or was not filed
as above pro-vided, or was or was not subscribed by the required
number of owners aforesaid, shall be conclusive in every court
or other tribunal,' as construed by the Supreme Court of Colorado, wasvalid and conclusive as against these appellees. The
validity of so much of said section as is above quoted was drawn
in question and denied by appellees in said cause, on the ground
.of its being repugnant to the due process of law clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States and in contravention thereof.
"Second. The Supreme Court of Colorado further erred in
assuming that said city council ever made a finding by ordinance in accordance with said proviso 'eighth.'
"Fifth. The Supreme Court of Colorado more particularly
erred in holding and deciding that the city authorities, in fol-

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lowing the procedure in this Eighth Avenue Paving District,
No. 1, of the city of Denver, Colorado, in the manner in which'
the record, evidence and decree of the trial court affirmatively
shows that they did, constituted due process of law as to these,
several appellees (now plaintiffs in error) as guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
"Ninth. The Supreme Court of Colorado erred in upholding
sections 29, 30, and 31, and each thereof of article 7 of 'An Act
to Revise and Amend the Charter of the City of Denver, Colo-'
rado, signed and approved by the Governor of Colorado
April 3rd, 1893' (commonly called the Denver City Charter of
1893), and not holding it special legislation and a denial of the
equal protection of the laws and taking of liberty and property
of these several plaintiffs in error without due process of law,
in violation of both the state and Federal Constitution and the
Fourteenth Amendment thereof.
"Tenth. The Supreme Court of Colorado erred in upholding
each of the several assessments against the corner lots, and particularly those lots belonging to said Wolfe Londoner and,
Dennis Sheedy, because each thereof was assessed for the paving,:
and other improvements in this district alone for more than
the several lots so assessed were ever actually worth and far in
excess of any special benefits received from the alleged improve-:
ments."
These assignments will be passed upon in the order in which
they seem to arise in the consideration of the whole ease.
The tax complained of was assessed under the provisions of
the charter of the city of Denver, which confers upon the city
the power to make local improvements and -to"assess the cost
upon property specially benefited. It does not seem necessary
to set forth fully the elaborate provisions of the -charter r'egulating the exercise'of this power, except where th yl
foi
special examination. The board of public works,." up'on'the'
petition of a majority ors
f the
afrontage"to beas'
sessed, may order the paving of a .street. The boiard must,
however, first adopt specifications mark out a district of ass.ess_-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

ment, cause a map to be made and an estimate of the cost, with
the approximate amount to be assessed upon. each lot of land.
Before action notice by publication and an opportunity to be
heard to any person interested must be given by the board.
The board may then order the improvement, but must recommend to the city council a form of ordinance authorizing it,
and establishing an assessment district, which is not amendable by the council. The council may then, in its discretion,
pass or refuse to pass the ordinance. If the ordinance is passed,
the contract for the work is made by the mayor. The charter
provides that "the finding of the city council, by ordinance,
that any improvements provided for in this article were duly
ordered after notice duly given, or that a petition or remonstrance was or was not filed as above provided, or was or was
not subscribed by the required number of owners aforesaid
shall be conclusive in every court or other tribunal." The
charter then provides for the assessment of the cost in the
following sections:
"SEC. 29. Upon completion of any local improvement, or, in
the case of sewers, upon completion from time to time of any
part or parts thereof, affording complete drainage for any part
or parts of the district and acceptance thereof by the board of
public works, Qr whenever the total cost of any such improvement, or of any such part or parts of any sewer, can be definitely ascertained, the board of public works shall prepare a
statement therein showing the whole cost of the improvement,
or such parts thereof, including six per cent additional for costs
of collection and other incidentals, and interest to the next
succeeding date upon which general taxes, or the first installment thereof, are by the laws of this State made payable; and
apportioning the same upon each lot or tract of land to be assessed for the same, as hereinabove provided; and shall cause
the same to be certified by the president and filed in the office
of the city clerk.
"SEC. 30. The city clerk shall thereupon, by advertisement

for ten days in some newspaper of general circulation, published

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

in the city of Denver, notify the owners of the real estate to be
assessed that said improvements have been, or are about to be,
completed and accepted, therein specifying the whole cost of
the improvements and the share so apportioned to each lot or
tract of land; and that any complaints or objections that may
be made in writing, by the owners, to the city council and filed
with the city clerk within thirty days from the first publication
of such notice, will be heard and determined by the city council before the passage of any ordinance assessing the cost of said
improvements.
"SEC. 31. After the period specified in said notice the city
council, sitting as a board of equalization, shall hear and determine all such complaints and objections, and may recommend
to the board of public works any modification of the apportionments made by said board; the board may thereupon make
such modifications and changes as to them may seem equitable
and just, or may confirm the first apportionment, and shall
notify the city council of their final decision; and the city council shall thereupon by ordinance assess the cost 'of said improvements against all the real estate in said district respectively in
the proportions above mentioned."
It appears from the charter that, in the execution of the
power to make local improvements and assess the cost upon
the property specially benefited, the main steps to be taken
by the city authorities are plainly marked and separated:
1. The board of public works must transmit to the city council a resolution ordering the work to be done and the form of
an ordinance authorizing it and creating an assessment district. This it can do only upon certain conditions, one of which
is that there shall first be filed a petition asking the improvement, signed by the owners of the majority of the frontage to
be assessed. 2. The passage of that ordinance by the city
council, which is given authority to determine conclusively
whether the a'ction of the board was duly taken. 3. The
assessment of the cost upon the landowners after due notice
and opportunity for hearing.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Cout.

210 U. S.

In the case before us the board took the first step by transmitting to the council the resolution to do the work and the
form of an ordinance authorizing it. it is contended, however,
that there was wanting an essential condition of the jurisdiction of the board, namely, such a petition from the owners as
the law requires. The trial court found this contention to be
true. But, as has been seen, the charter gave the city council
the authority to determine conclusively that the improvements
were duly ordered by the board after due notice and a proper
petition. In the exercise of this authority the city council, in
the ordinance directing the improvement to be made, adjudged, in effect, that a proper petition had been filed. That
ordinance after reciting a compliance by the board with the
charter in other respects, and that "certain petitions for said
improvements were first presented to the said board, subscribed by the owners of a majority of the frontage to be
assessed for said improvements as by the city charter required," enacted "That upon consideration of the premises
the city council doth find that in their action and. proceedings
in relation to said Eighth Avenue Paving District Number
One the said board of public works has fully complied with
the requirements of the city charter relating thereto." The
state Supreme Court held that the determination of the city
council was conclusive that a proper petition was filed, and
that decision must be accepted by us as the law of the State.
The only question for this court is whether the charter provision authorizing: such a finding, without notice to the landowners, denies to them due process of law. We think it does
not. Theproceedings, from the beginning up to and including
the passage of the ordinance 'authorizing the work did not include any assessment or necessitate any assessment, although
they laid the foundation for an assessment, which might or
might not subsequently be made. Clearly all this might
validly be done without hearing 'to the landowners, provided
a hearing upon the assessment itself is afforded. I Voigt v. Detroit, 184 U: S. 115; Goodrich v. Detroit, 184 U. S. 432. The

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

legislature might have authorized the making of improvements
by the city council without any petition. If it chose to exact
a petition as a security for wise and just action it could, so far
as the Federal Constitution is concerned, accompany that
condition with a provision that the council, with or without
notice, should determine finally whether it had been performed.
This disposes of the first assignment of error, which is overruled. The second assignment is that the court erred in deciding that the city council had determined that the board
of public works had complied with the conditions of its jurisdiction to order the work done. It is enough to say that this
is not a Federal question.
We see nothing in the sixth assignment of error. It is apparently based upon the proposition that, in construing a law
of the State in a manner which the plaintiffs in error think was
clearly erroneous, the Supreme Court of the State exercised
legislative power, and thereby violated the Fourteenth Amendment. We are puzzled to find any other answer to this proposition than to say that it is founded upon a misconception of the
opinion of the court and of the effect of the Fourteenth Amend-'
ment. The complaint in this assignment is not that the court
gave a construction to the law which brought it into conflict
with the Federal Constitution, but that, in construing the
law so as to. bring it into harmony with the Federal and state
constitutions, the court so far neglected its obvious meaning
as to make the judgment an exercise of legislative power. We
know of nothing in the Fourteenth Amendmentwhich gives
us authority to consider a question of this kind. We think
it fitting, however, to say that we see nothing extraordinary
in the method of interpretation followed by the court, or in
its results. . Whether we should or not have arrived at the
same conclusions is not of consequence.
The ninth assignment questions the constitutionality of that
part of the law which authorizes the assessment of benefits.
It seems "desirable, for the proper disposition of this and the
next assignment, to state the construction which the Supreme

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

Court gave to the charter. This may be found in the judgment under review and two cases decided with it. Denver v.
Kennedy, 33 Colorado, 80; Denver v. Dumars, 33 Colorado, 94.
From these cases it appears that the lien upon the adjoining
land arises out of the assessment; after the cost of the work
and the provisional apportionment is certified to the city
council the landowners affected are afforded an opportunity to
be heard upon the validity and amount of the assessment by
the council sitting as a board of equalization; if any further
notice than the notice to file complaints and objections is required, the city authorities have the implied power to give
it; the hearing must be before the assessment is made; this
hearing, provided for by ยง 31, is one where the board of equalization "shall hear the parties complaining and such testimony
as they may offer in support of their complaints and objections
as would be competent and relevant," 33 Colorado, 97; and
that the full hearing before the board of equalization excludes
the courts from entertaining any objections which are cognizable by this board. The statute itself therefore is clear of
all constitutional faults. It remains to see how it was administered in the case at bar.
The fifth assignment, though general, vague and obscure,
fairly raises, we think, the question whether the assessment
was made without notice and opportunity for hearing to those
affected by it, thereby denying to them due process of law.
The trial court found as a fact that no opportunity for hearing was afforded, and the Supreme Court did not disturb this
finding. The record discloses what was actually done, and
there seems to be no dispute about it. After the improvement
was completed the board of public works, in compliance with
ยง 29 of the charter, certified to the city clerk a statement of
the cost, and an apportionment of it to the lots of land to be
assessed. Thereupon the city clerk, in compliance with ยง30,
published a notice stating, inter alia,that the written complaints
or objections of the owners, if filed within thirty days, would
be "heard and determined by the city council before the pas-

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U.

.

Opinion of the Court.

sage of any ordinance assessing the cost." Those interested,
therefore, were informed that if they reduced their complaints
and objections to writing, and filed them within thirty daysi
those complaints and objections would be heard, and would be
heard before any assessment was made. The notice given in
this case, although following the words of the statute, did not
fix the time for hearing, and apparently there were no stated
sittings of the council acting as a board of equalization. But
the notice purported only to fix the time for filing the complaints and objections, and to inform those who should file theni
that they would be heard before action. The statute expressly
required no other notice, but it was sustained in the court below
on the authority of Paulsen v. Portland, 149 U. S. 30, because
there was an implied power in the city council to give notice of
the time for hearing. We think that the court rightly conceived
the meaning of, that case and that the statute could be sustained only upon the theory drawn from it. Resting upon the
assurance that'they would be heard, the plaintiffs in error filed
within the thirty days the following paper:
"Denver, Colorado, January 13, 1900.
"To the Honorable Board of Public Works and the Honorable
Mayor and City Council of the City of Denver:
"The undersigned, by Joshua Grozier, their attorney, do
hereby-most earnestly and strenuously protest and object to
the passage of the contemplated or any assessing ordinance
against the property in Eighth Avenue Paving District No. 1,
so called, for each of the following reasons, to wit:
"1st. That said assessment and all and each of the proceedings leading up to the same were and are illegal, voidable
and void, and the attempted assessment if made will be void
and uncollectible.
"2nd. That said assessment and the cost of said pretended
improvement should be collected, if at all, as a general
tax against the city at large and not as a special assessment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

"3d. That property in said city not assessed is benefited by
the said pretended improvement and certain property assessed
isnot benefited by said pretended improvement and other
property assessed is not benefited by said pretended improvement to the extent of the assessment; that the individual
pieces of property in said district are not benefited to the 6xtent assessed against them and each of them respectively; that
the assessment is abitrary and property assessed, in an equal
amount is not benefited equally; that the boundaries of said
pretended district were arbitrarily created without regard to
the benefits or any other method of assessment known to law;
that said assessment is outrageously large.
"4th. That each of the laws and each section thereof under which the proceedings in said pretended district were attempted to be had do not confer the authority for such proceedings; that the 1893 city charter was not properly passed
and is not a law of the State of Colorado by reason of not
properly or at all passing the legislature; that each of the provisions of said charter under which said proceedings were
attempted are unconstitutional and violative of fundamental
principles of law, the Constitution of the United States and
the state constitution, or some one or more of the provisions
of one or more of the same.
"5th. Because the pretended notice of assessment is invalid and was not published in accordance with the law, and
is 'in fact no notice at all; because there was and is no valid
ordinance creating said district; because each notice required
by the 1893 city charter to be given, where it was attempted
to give such notice, was insufficient, and was not properly
given or,properly published.
"6th. Because of. non-compliance by the contractor with
his contract and failure to complete the work in accordance
with the contract; because the contract for said work was let
without right, or authority; because said pretended district
is incomplete and the work under said contract has not been
completed in accordance with said contract, because items too

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

numerous to mention, which were not a proper charge in the
said assessment, are included therein.
"7th. Because the work was done under pretended grants
of authority oontained in pretended laws, which laws were
violative of the constitution and fundamental laws of the State
and Union.
"8th. Because the city had no jurisdiction in the premises.
No petition subscribed by the owners of a majority of the
frontage in the district to be assessed for said improvements
was ever obtained or presented.
"9th. Because of delay by the board of public works in attempting to let the contract and because the said pretended
improvement was never properly nor sufficiently petitioned for;
because the contracts were not let nor the work done in accordance with the petitions, if any, for the work, and because
the city had no jurisdiction in the premises.
" 10th. Because before ordering the pretended improvement
full details and specifications for the same, permitting and encouraging competition and determining the number of installments and time within which the costs shall be payable, the
rate of interest on unpaid installments, and the district of lands
to be assessed, together with a map showing the approximate
amounts to be assessed, were not adopted by the board of public
works before the letting of the contract for the work and furnishing of material; because advertisement for 20 days in two
daily newspapers of general circulation, giving notice to the
owners of real estate.in the district of the kind of improvements proposed, the number of installments and time in which
payable, rate of interest and extent of the district, probable
cost and time when a resolution ordering the improvement
would be considered, was not made either properly or at all,
and if ever attempted to be made was not made according to
law, or as required by the law or charter.
"11th. Because the attempted advertisement for bids on
the contract attempted to be let were not properly published
and were published and let, and the proceedings had, if at all,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

in such a way as to be prejudicial to the competition of bidders
and to deter bidders; and the completion of the contracts after
being attempted to be let was permitted to lag in such a manner as not to comply with the contract, charter or laws, and
the power to let the contract attempted to be let was not within
the power of the parties attempting to let the same; because
the city council is or was by some of the proceedings deprived
of legislative discretion, and the board of public works and
other pretended bodies given such discretion, which discretion
they delegated to others having no right or power to exercise
the same; and executive functions were conferred on bodies
having no right, power or authority to exercise the same and
taken away from others to whom such power was attempted
to be granted or given or who should properly exercise the
same; that judicial power was attempted to be conferred on
the board of public works, so called, and the city council, and
other bodies or pretended bodies not judicial or quasi-judicial
in character, having no right, power or authority to exercise
the same, and the courts attempted to be deprived thereof.
"Wherefore, because of the foregoing and numerous other
good and sufficient reasons, the undersigned object and protest
against the passage of the said proposed assessing ordinance."
This certainly was a complaint against and objection to the
proposed assessment. Instead of affording the plaintiffs in error
an opportunity to be heard upon its allegations, the city council,
without notice to them, met as a board of equalization, not in a
stated but in a specially called session, and, without any hearing, adopted the following resolution:
"Whereas, complaints have been filed by the various persons
and firms as the owners of real estate included within the Eighth
Avenue Paving District No. 1, of the city of Denver against the
proposed assessments on said property for the cost of said paving, the names and description of the real estate respectively
owned by such persons being more particularly described in
the various complaints filed with the city clerk; and
"Whereas, no complaint or objection has been filed or made

LONDONER v. DENVER.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against the apportionment of said assessment made by the
board of public works of the city of Denver, but the complaints
and objections filed deny wholly the right of the city to assess
any district or portion of the assessable property of the city of
Denver; therefore, be it
"Resolved, by the city council of the city of Denver, sitting
as a board of equalization, that the apportionments of said
assessment made by said board of public works. be, and the
same are hereby, confirmed and approved."
Subsequently, without further notice or hearing, the city
council enacted the ordinance of assessment whose validity
is to be determined in this case. The facts out of which the
question on this assignment arises may be compressed into
small compass. The first step in 'the assessment proceedings
was by the certificate of the board of public works of the cost
of the improvement and a preliminary apportionment of it.
The last step was the enactment of the assessment ordinance.
From beginning to end of the proceedings the landowners,
although allowed to formulate and file complaints and objections, were not afforded an opportunity to be heard upon them.
Upon these facts was there a denial by the State of the due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States?
In the assessment, apportionment and collection of taxes
upon property within their jurisdiction the Constitution of the
United States imposes few restrictions upon the States. In
the enforcement of such restrictions as the Constitution does
impose this court has regarded substance and not form. But
where the legislature of a State, instead of fixing the tax itself,
commits to some subordinate body the duty of determining
whether, in what amount, and upon whom it shall be levied,
and of making its assessment and apportionment, due process
of law requires that at some stage of the proceedings before
the tax becomes irrevocably fixed, the taxpayer shall have
an opportunity to be heard, of which he must have notice, either
personal, by publication, or by a law fixing the time and place
VOL. ccx-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

of the hearing. Hager v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S.701;
Kentucky Railroad Tax Cases, 115 U. S. 321; Winona & St.
Peter Land Co. v. Minnesota, 159 U. S.526, 537; Lent v. Tillson,
140 U. S. 316; Glidden v. Harrington, 189 U. S.255; Hibben v.
Smith, 191 U. S. 310; Security Trust Co. v. Lexington, 203 U. S.
323; Central of Georgia v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127. It must be
remembered that the law of Colorado denies the landowner
the right to object in the courts to the assessment, upon the
ground that the objections are cognizable only by the board of
equalization.
If it is enough that, under such circumstances, an opportunity
is given to submit in writing all objections to and complaints
of the tax to the board, then there was a hearing afforded in
the case at bar. But we think that something more than that,
even in proceedings for taxation, is required by due process of
law. Many requirements essential in strictly judicial proceedings may be dispensed with in proceedings of this nature. But
even here a hearing in its very essence demands that he who is
entitled to it shall have the right to support his allegations by
argument however brief, and, if need be, by proof, however
informal. Pittsburg &c. Railway Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421,
426; Fallbrook IrrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 171,
et seq. It is apparent that such a hearing was denied to the
plaintiffs in error. The denial was by the city council, which,
while acting as a board of equalization, represents the State.
Raymond v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20. The assessment
was therefore void, and the plaintiffs in error were entitled
to a decree discharging their lands from a lien on account of it.
It is not now necessary to consider the tenth assignment of
error.
Judgment reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTIcE HOLMES dissent.

