OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Syllabus.

210 U. S.

establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.
The Court of Appeals well said:
"The 'Treaty' and 'Trust' moneys are the only moneys
that the Indians can lay claim to as matter of right; the only
sums on which they are entitled to rely as theirs for education;
and while these moneys are not delivered to them in hand, yet
the money must not only be provided, but be expended, for
their benefit and in part for their education; it seems inconceivable that Congress should have intended to prohibit them
from receiving religious education at their own cost if they
so desired it; such an intent would be one 'to prohibit the free
exercise of religion' amongst the Indians, and such would be
the effect of the construction for which the complainants contend."
The cestuis que trust cannot be deprived of their rights by
the trustee in the exercise of power implied.
Decree affirmed.

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT • OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 220.

Argued April 30, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

The full faith and credit clause of the Federal Cofistitution does not preclude the courts of a State in which the judgment of a sister State is
presented from inquiry as to jurisdiction of the court by which the judgment is rendered, nor is this inquiry precluded by a recital in the record
of jurisdictional facts.
Every State has exclusive jurisdiction over property within its borders,
and where testator has property in more than one State each State has
jurisdiction over the property within its limits and can, in its own courts,
provide for the disposition thereof in conformity with its laws.
There is no privity between the executor and an administrator with the will
annexed appointed in another State which makes a decree in a court of
such State against the latter binding under the full faith and credit clause
of the Federal Constitution upon the former in the courts of the State
in which such executor is appointed.

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
210 U. S.

Statement of the Cme.

Where a party dies pending a suit which is subsequently revived against an
administrator with the will annexed appointed in the State in the courts
of which the suit is pending, the judgment is binding only upon the parties against which it is revived and who are within the jurisdiction of the
court, and the courts of another State are not bound under the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution to give effect to such judgment against the executors of such deceased party; and this applies to
a judgment entered on an arbitration had in pursuance of a stipulation
that it should be conducted under control of the court and that it should
continue notwithstanding the decease of either party.
Quare as to the effect of the death of either party on an arbitration under
a contract of submission made independently of judicial proceedings
where the contract provides that the arbitration shall in such event continue and the award be binding upon the representatives of the deceased
party.
146 Michigan, 401, affirmed.
ON April 24, 1874, a bill of complaint in a suit for an accounting was filed in the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, sitting in equity, against George N. Fletcher, of Detroit, Michigan. The latter personally appeared and defended
the suit. Without going into the details of the protracted litigation in Massachusetts, or showing how the plaintiff in error
became at last the plaintiff in whose favor the Massachusetts
court entered judgment, it is enough to say that, on April 4,
1892, an agreement was made between the parties for submitting to arbitration all the claims and demands either party
might have against the other; providing that the arbitration
should be under rule of court, and that it should not operate
as a discontinuance of the suit. It was further stipulated that
the decease of either party should not terminate the submission, but that the arbitration should continue, and his successors and legal representatives should be bound by the final
award therein. On October 18, 1893, the Hon. William L.
Putnam was selected as arbitrator. On May 22, 1894, he filed
a preliminary award. After this, and before a final award,
Fletcher died, leaving a will, which was probated in the Probate Court of Wayne County, Michigan. Letters testamentary
were issued to his executors, citizens of Michigan, who qualified
as such, and took possession of the decedent's estate in Michi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S,

gan. His principal estate, as well as his domicil, was in Michigan, but he owned two small tracts in Massachusetts. The
Probate Court of Middlesex County, Massachusetts, by proceedings, regular in form, appointed Frank B. Cotton, a
citizen of that State, administrator with the will annexed.
The Massachusetts property was afterwards sold by that administrator for $350.
After the death of Fletcher the principal suit was revived,
the administrator entered his appearance therein, and an order
was made by the Massachusetts court that the executors and
the children and residuary legatees of the decedent be notified
to appear, and that in default thereof the arbitration proceed.
They were notified by personal service of the order in the State
of Michigan, but did not appear. The arbitration proceeded
in their absence and a final award was made. It should also
be stated that on his death Fletcher's counsel withdrew their
appearance in the case. On April 14, 1903, the Massachusetts
Supreme Judicial Court confirmed the awards of the arbitrator,
and adjudged that Albert W. Brown recover from Frank B.
Cotton, administrator with the will annexed, the sum of
$394,372.87 and $4,495.85 as interest and the costs of suit,
afterwards taxed as $5,385.40. It was further adjudged and
decreed that the Michigan executors of the last will were
bound by the final award of the arbitrator and liable to pay
to Albert W. Brown the aforesaid sums; that the legal representatives of )George N. Fletcher were likewise bound by the
award and liable for any deficiency. Thereafter the decree
of the Massachusetts court was filed in the Probate Court of
Wayne County, Michigan, as evidence of a claim against the
estate. It was disallowed by that court, and on appeal to the
Supreme Court of Michigan the disallowance was affirmed.
146 Michigan, 401. Thereupon the case was brought here on
error.
Mr. HarrisonGeer and Mr. John Miner for plaintiff in error:
The Massachusetts court in equity having had jurisdiction

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
210 U.S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

in Fletcher's lifetime over the subject-matter and the parties
to the suit, and on his death the suit having been duly revived, the decree is conclusive evidence of debt in this proceeding.
The death of a party to a suit in equity does not amount to
a determination of the suit, but merely suspends the proceedings until new parties are brought before the court. When
the suit is revived, the cause proceeds to its regular determination. 5 Am. & Eng. Ency. of P1. & Pr. 790, 791; Story's Equity
P1. & Pr. § 354; Clarke v. Mathewson, 12 Pet. 171; Mellus
v. Thompson, 1 Cliff. 129; Hoxie v. Carr, 1 Sumn. (U. S.)
178.
While the right of the Massachusetts court to proceed in the
suit was suspended by Fletcher's death, the court was not
thereby divested of jurisdiction. It retained the jurisdiction
possessed by it in the lifetime of Fletcher until the cause was
finally determined. 2 Black on Judg. §912; Freeman on
Judg. § 142; Sanford v. Sanford, 28 Connecticut, 6; Evans v.
Black, 5 Arkansas, 429; Quarl v. Abbott, 102 Indiana, 239, 240;
Gray v. Bowles, 74 Missouri, 419; Nations v. Johnson, 24 How.
202. See also Smith v. Engle, 44 Iowa, 265; Laing v. Rigney,
160 U. S. 531; Fitzsimmons v. Johnson, 90 Tennessee, 416;
Field v. Judge, 124 Michigan, 68.
The court having possessed jurisdiction of the cause until
it was finally determined, its exercise of that. jurisdiction cannot be questioned in a collateral proceeding like the one at bar.
There is a marked distinction between the jurisdiction of a
court and its exercise of that jurisdiction. If it has no jurisdiction, any judgment rendered by it is absolutely void, and
may be attacked in a collateral proceeding. If it has jurisdiction, but exercises it wrongfully, its judgment may be reversed on appeal, but it cannot be questioned in a collateral
proceeding. 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 1042; Paine
v. Mooreland, 15 Ohio, 435; Chase v. Christianson, 41 California, 255; Laing v. Rigney, 160 U. S. 531; Babb v. Bruere,
23 Mo. App. 606; Hagerman v. Sutton, 91 Missouri, 519.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

210 U. S.

The suit having been properly revived against the administrator with the will annexed, and the court having retained
the jurisdiction that it possessed in Fletcher's lifetime until
the cause was finally determined, the decree against such administrator is valid and conclusive evidence of debt in this
proceeding against his estate in Michigan.
Even if the suit had not been revived after Fletcher's death
the decree would be merely voidable, and not void, nor subject to attack in a collateral proceeding like the case at bar.
While a court ought to cease the exercise of its jurisdiction
over a party on his death, its failure to do so can only be corrected in. a direct proceeding. The court having possessed
jurisdiction in the lifetime of the party, and having retained
such jurisdiction until the final determination of the suit, its
exercise of that jurisdiction, even after the death of a party, is
not subject to collateral attack. 2 Black on Judg. § 200;
Freeman on Judg. §§ 140-153; 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law
(2d ed.), 1070; New Orleans v. Gaines, Admr., 138 U. S. 612;
Reid v. Holmes, 127 Massachusetts, 326; Collins v. Mitchell,
5 Florida, 364; Neale v. Utz, 75 Virginia, 480; Yaple v. Titus,
41 Pa. St. 195; Carr v. Townsend's Ex'rs, 63 Pa. St. 202;
Swasey v. Antram, 24 Ohio St. 87; Claflin's Ex'r v. Dunne, 129
Illinois, 241; Mitchell v. Schoonover, 16 Oregon, 211; Hayes v.
Shaw, 20 Minnesota, 405; Stocking v. Hanson, 22 Minnesota,
542; Watt v. Brookover, 29 Am. St. Rep. 816n; Webber v. Stanton, 1 Mich. N. P. 97.
Fletcher's Michigan executors and the administrator with
the will annexed of his estate in Massachusetts are in such
privity tha6 the decree is conclusive evidence of debt in this
proceeding.
Both the executors and the administrator with the will
annexed are in privity with their testator, Fletcher. 23 Am.
& Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 101; Words and Phrases, Vol. 6,
pp. 5606-5611; 1 Greenl. Ev. § 523; Litchfield v. Goodnow,
123 U. S. 549; Williams v. Barkley, 58 N. E. Rep. 768; Pennington v. Hunt, 20 Fed. Rep. 195; Hill v. Tucker, 13 How.

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
210 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

458; Goodall v. Tucker, 13 How. 469; Latine v. Clements, 3
Kelly (Georgia), 426.
Mr. Henry M. Campbell for defendant in error:
The contention that the administrator with the will annexed,
appointed by the Probate Court of Suffolk County, Massachusetts, at the instance of the plaintiff, was in privity with the
executors appointed by the Probate Court for the County of
Wayne, Michigan, under the will, so that a decree in Massachusetts against the Massachusetts administrator with the
will annexed, is binding upon the Michigan executors, is without support in 1Principle or authority. Campau v. Gillett, 1
Michigan, 417; Gary, Probate Law, § 9; Story, Conflict of Laws,
§§ 512, 513, 514; Lafferty v. People'sSavings Bank, 76 Michigan,
35; Am. Missionary Ass'n v. Hall, 138 Michigan, 247; Low v.
Bartlett, 8 Allen, 262; Vaughn v. Northrop, 15 Peters, 5; Aspden v. Nixon, 4 How. 467; Stacey v. Thrasher, 6 How. 58;
McLean v. Meek, 18 How. 16; Johnson v. Powers, 139 U. S.
156.

The covenants contained in the agreement of submission
could not confer upon the Massachusetts court the power,
which it did not otherwise possess, to render a judgment
against the Michigan executors over whom it had no authority
and who had not been brought within its jurisdiction by legal
process. Woodbury v. Proctor, 9 Gray, 19.; Wily v. Durgan,
118 Massachusetts, 64; Seavy v. Beckler, 132 Massachusetts,
203; Mussina v. Hettzog, 5 Binn. (Pa.) 387.
An agreement that the Massachusetts court shall have
authority to enter a decree which shall be binding upon persons not lawfully brought before it and upon. an estate situated
without its jurisdiction, is legally impossible. The State of
Massachusetts, itself, is without power to confer such authority
upon its courts, and the Michigan laws expressly prohibit the
adjustment of claims against estates within its jurisdiction
in any other way than that designated by its own laws. Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 491; Spear v. Carter et al., 1 Michi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

gan, 19, 23; Youngblood v. Sexton, 32 Michigan 406, 409;
Allen v. Carpenter, 15 Michigan, 25, 32; Thompson v. Michigan Mutual Benefit Assn., 52 Michigan, 522, 524; Kirkwood v.
Hoxie, 95 Michigan, 62; Santom v. Ballard, 133 Massachusetts,
465; Batchelder v. Currier, 45 N. H. 460, 463; State v. Richmond, 26 N. H. 232; Dudley v. Mayhew, 3 N. Y. 9; Morrison
v. Weaver, 4 S. & R. (Pa.), 190; Agee v. Dement, 1 Humph.
(Tenn.) 332; Judy, Adm'r, v. Kelly, 11 Illinois, 211; Greer
v. Ferguson, 56 Arkansas, 324; Flandrow v. Hammond, 13
N. Y. App. Div. 325; Sloan v. Sloan, 21 Florida, 589-596; Elling v. FirstNat'l Bank, 173 Illinois, 368, 387; Freeman on Judgments, § 120, and cases cited; Foster v. Durant, 2 Cush. 544;
Woodbury v. Proctor, 9 Gray, 18; Hubbell v. Bissell, 15
Gray, 551; 17 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law (2d ed.), 1060.
after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

JUSTICE BREWER,

The Federal question presented is, whether the Michigan
courts gave force and effect to the first section of Article IV
of the Federal Constitution, which provides that "full faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records, and judicial proceedings of every other State." That
this is a Federal question is not open to doubt. Huntington v.
Attrill, 146 U.S. 657, 666, and cases cited.
The constitutional provision does not preclude the courts
of a State in which the judgment of a sister State is presented
from inquiry as to the jurisdiction of the court by which the
judgment was rendered. See the elaborate opinion by Mr.
Justice Bradley, speaking for the court, in Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457. That opinion has been followed in many
cases, among which may be named Simmons v. Saul, 138
U. S. 439, 448; Reynolds v. Stockton, 140 U. S. 254, 265; Thormann v. Frame, 176 U. S. 350. Even record recitals of jurisdictional facts do not preclude oral testimony as to the existence of those facts. Knowles v. Gaslight &c. Co., 19 Wall.

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

58, 61; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 730; Cooper v. Newell,
173 U. S. 555, 566.
Every State has exclusive jurisdiction over the property
within its borders. Overby v. Gordon, 177 U. S. 214. We
make this extract from the opinion of Mr. Justice White in
that case, p. 222:
"To quote the language of Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in
Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241, 277: 'It is repugnant to every
idea of a proceeding in rem to act against a thing which is not
in the power of the sovereign under whose authority the
court proceeds; and no nation will admit that its property
should be absolutely changed, while remaining in its own
possession, by a sentence which is entirely ex parte.'
"As said also in Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 722: 'Except as restrained and limited by the Constitution, the several
States of the Union possess and exercise the authority of independent States, and two well-established principles of public law respecting the jurisdiction of an independent State
over persons and property are applicable to them. One of
these principles is, that every State possesses exclusive jurisdiction and sovereignty over persons and property within
its territory.

.

.

.

The other principle of public law re-

ferred to follows from the one mentioned; that is, that no State
can exercise direct jurisdiction and authority over persons or
property without its territory. Story, Confl. Laws, c. 2; Wheat.
Int. Law, pt. 2, c. 2. The several States are of equal dignity
and authority, and the independence of one implies the exclusion of power from all others. And so it 'is laid down by
jurists, as an elementary principle, that the laws of one State
have no operation outside of its territory, except so far as is
allowed by comity; and that no tribunal established by it
can extend its process beyond that territory so as to. subject
either persons or property to its decisions. Any exertion of
authority of this sort beyond this limit, says Story, is a mere
nullity, and incapable of binding such persons or property in
539.'"
any other tribunals. Story, Confl. Laws, s.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

Fletcher at the time of his decease was the owner of property, some of it situated in Massachusetts and some in Michigan.
Each State had jurisdiction over the property within its limits,
and could in its own courts, in conformity with its laws, provide for the disposition thereof. Massachusetts exercised its
jurisdiction over the property within its limits and disposed
of it by legal proceedings in its courts. The contention now
is that the proceedings in the Massachusetts court can be
made operative to control the disposition of the property in
Michigan. In support of this contention counsel for plaintiff
in error state two propositions:
"The Supreme Judicial Court in Equity for Suffolk County,
Massachusetts, having had jurisdiction in Fletcher's lifetime
over the subject-matter and the parties to the suit, and on
his death the suit having been duly revived, the decree is
conclusive evidence of debt in this proceeding.
"Fletcher's Michigan executors and the administrator with
the will annexed of his estate in Massachusetts are in such
privity that the decree is conclusive evidence of debt in this
proceeding."
Considering first the latter proposition, we are of opinion
that there is no such relation between the executor and an
administrator with the will annexed appointed in another
State as will make a decree against the latter binding upon the
former, or the estate in his possession. While a judgment
against a party may be conclusive, not merely against him,
but also against those in privity with him, there is no privity
between two administrators appointed in different States.
Vaughan v. Northrup, 15 Pet. 1; Aspden v. Nixon, 4 How. 467;
Stacy, Adm'r, v. Thrasher, 6 How. 44. In this latter case, on
page 58, it was said:
"Where administrations are granted to different persons in
different States, they are so far deemed independent of each
other that a judgment obtained against one will furnish no
right of action against the other, to affect assets received by
the latter in virtue of his own administration; for in contempla-

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of law, there is no privity between him and the other
administrator. See Story, Confl. of Laws, § 522; Brodie v.
Bickley, 2 Rawle, 431."
See also McLean v. Meek, 18 How. 16; Johnson v. Powers,
139 U. S. 156, in which the question is discussed at some
length by Mr. Justice Gray. This doctrine was enforced in
Massachusetts. Low v. Bartlett, 8 Allen, 259, where a judgment had been recovered in Vermont against an ancillary administrator appointed in that State, whose appointment had
been made at the request of the executor under the will probated in Massachusetts, and it was held that the administrator was not in privity with the executor, because the two were
administering two separate and distinct estates, the court
saying, p. 262:
"If we look at the question of privity between the executor
here and the ancillary administrator in Vermont, it is difficult to find any valid ground on which such privity can rest.
The executor derives his authority from the letters testamentary issued by the probate court here; he gives bond to that
court; is accountable to it for all his proceedings; makes his
final settlement in it and is discharged by it, in conformity
with the statutes of this Commonwealth. The administrator
derives his authority from the probate court in Vermont, and
is accountable to it in the same manner in which the executor
is accountable to our court. The authority of the executor
does not extend to the property there, nor to the doings of
the administrator. Nor does the authority of the administrator extend to the property here, or to the doings of the executor. When the plaintiff commenced his suit against the administrator, the executor had no right to go there and defend
it. If he had been found in Vermont he could not have been
sued there. The judgment rendered in the suit was not against
him, or against the testator's goods in his hands; but was simply against the administrator and the testator's goods in his
hands. The courts of Vermont had no jurisdiction of the
executor or of the goods in his hands, any more than our

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

courts would have over the administrator and the goods in
his hands. It is this limitation of state jurisdiction that
creates a necessity for an administration in every State where
a deceased person leaves property; and each State regulates
for itself exclusively the manner in which the estate found
within its limits shall be settled."
The Massachusetts statutes proceed along this line. Sees. 10,
11 and 12, c. 136, Mass. Rev.'Laws, 1902, provide for the probate of foreign wills in Massachusetts. See. 12 reads:
"After allowing a will under the provisions of the two preceding sections, the probate court shall grant letters testamentary on such will or letters of administration with the will
annexed, and shall proceed in the settlement of the estate
which may be found in this Commonwealth in the manner
provided in chap. 143 relative to such estates."
With reference to the first contention. of counsel, we remark
that, while the original suit against Fletcher in the Massachusetts court was revived after his death, yet the revivor was
operative only against the administrator with the will annexed.
Neither the executors nor the residuary legatees were made
parties, for it is elementary that service of process outside of
',he limits of the State is not operative to bring the party served
Aithin the jurisdiction of the court ordering the process. Such
3lso is the statutory provision in Massachusetts. Section 1,
ch. 170, Mass. Rev. Laws, 1902, reads:
"A personal action shall not be maintained against a person
who is not an inhabitant of this Commonwealth unless he has
been served with process within this Commonwealth or unless an effectual attachment of his property within this Com.nonwealth has been made upon the original writ, and in
case of such attachment without such service the judgment
shall be valid to secure the application of the property so
attached to the satisfaction of the judgment, and not otherwise."
The Massachusetts court, therefore, proceeded without any
personal jurisdiction over the executors and legatees, who

BROWN v. FLETCHER'S ESTATE.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

were all domiciled in Michigan, did not appear, and were not
validly served with process.
. The argument of plaintiff in error is that by personal appearance during his lifetime the Massachusetts court acquired
jurisdiction of the suit in equity against Fletcher; that his death
prior to a decree did not abate the suit, but only temporarily
suspended it until his representative should be made a party;
that if a decree had been rendered against him in his lifetime
it would have established, both against himself and after his
death against his estate, whatever of liability was decreed;
that while the suit was pending the parties entered into a
stipulation for an arbitration; that that arbitration did not
abate, nor was it outside the suit, but in terms made under
rule of court and not to operate as a discontinuance of the suit.
Provision was also made in the stipulation for the contingency
of death, its terms being "that the decease of any party shall
not revoke said submission, but that said arbitration shall continue, and that

.

.

.

the legal representatives of said Brown

and said Fletcher shall be bound by the final award therein;"
so that there is not merely the equity rule that a suit in equity
does not abate by the death of the defendant, and that the
jurisdiction of the court is only suspended until such time as
the proper representatives of the deceased are made parties
defendant, but also a special agreement in the submission to
arbitration that it shall be made under a rule of court, and
that the death of either party shall not terminate the arbitration proceedings, but that they shall continue until the final
award. It is urged that. on the death a revivor was ordered;
that the representative of the decedent's estate in Massachusetts, to wit, the administrator, was made a party defendant
and appeared to the suit, and notice was given by personal
service upon the executors and legatees inMichigan of the fact
of the revivor, and that they were called upon to appear and
defend.
But it must be borne in mind that this arbitration was made
under a rule of court. Not only that, but special provision

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court,

210 U. S.

was made for the action of the court in deciding questions of
law arising upon the report of the arbitrator, so that the arbitration was not an outside and independent proceeding, but
simply one had in court for the purpose of facilitating the
disposition of the case. And we may remark in passing that
we do not have before us the case of a simple arbitration contract, executed independently of judicial proceedings, and express no opinion as to the rights and remedies of one party
thereto in case of the death of the other. The validity of the
decree must depend upon the proceedings subsequent to the
death of Fletcher. On his death the jurisdiction of the Massachusetts court was not wholly destroyed, but suspended until
the proper representative of Fletcher was made a party. The
Massachusetts administrator was made a party and did appear, and the decree rendered unquestionably bound him,
but the executors, the domiciliary representatives of the
decedent's estate, did not appear and were not brought into
court. The Massachusetts administrator was not a general
representative of the estate, and could not bind it by any appearance or action other than Inrespect to the property in his
custody. If the home estate was to be reached it had to be
reached by proceedings to which the home representatives
were parties. The agreement of the parties that the arbitration should continue in 6ase of the death of either, and that the
legal representatives of the party should be bound by the final
award, was an agreement made in the course of judicial proceedings of the suit in the Massachusetts court. It did not
operate to make the home representatives of the decedent
parties to the suit on the death of Fletcher. It did not bring
his general estate into court. We concur in the views expressed
by the Supreme Court of Michigan in the close of its opinion
that"It must be held that the proceedings in the Massachusetts
court abated with the death of Mr. Fletcher, that its revivor
was possible only because there was brought into existence,
by the exercise of the sovereign power of the State, a represen-

LA BOURGOGNE.
210 U. S.

Syllabus.

tative of the decedent, clothed with certain powers with respect to the estate of the decedent within the State, and that
the decree thereafter rendered in the suit so revived is without
effect save upon the administrator of the estate who was in accordance with the law of the place brought upon the record."
We are of opinion that the Supreme Court of Michigan did
not fail to give "full faith and credit" to the decree of the
Massachusetts Supreme Court, and therefore the judgment is
Affirmed.

LA BOURGOGNE. 1
ON WRIT AND CROSS WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 33. Argued November 1, 1907.-Decided May 18, 1908.
The decree of the District Court in a proceeding for limitation of liability
adjudging that the petitioner is entitled to the limitation and declaring
that one class of claims cannot be proved against the fund and remitting
all questions concerning other claims for proof prior to final decree is
interlocutory and an appeal to the Circuit Court does not lie therefrom, but
from the subsequent decree adjudicating all the claims filed against the
fund.
This court will not disturb the concurrent findings of fact of both the courts
below unless so unwarranted by the evidence as to be clearly erroneous,
and a finding that the rate of speed of a vessel on the high seas during a
fog was immoderate under the international rules, will not be disturbed
because based on the conceptions of immoderate speed prevailing in the
United States courts and not on those prevailing in the courts of the
country to which the vessel belonged.
In a proceedipg to limit liability instituted by the owners of a foreign
vessel lost on the high seas the right to exemption must be determined
by the law as administered in the courts of the United States.
In a proceeding for limitation of liability the remedy of claimants against
the fund for the failure of the petitioners to produce log books ordered
I Docket title, No. 33, George Deslions, W. C. Perry, Administrator of
Kate M. Perry et al., Petitioners, v. La Compagnie Gdndrale Transatlantique,
Owner of the Steamship La Bourgogne.

