868

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

WESTERN LOAN AND SAVINGS COMPANY v. BUTTE
AND BOSTON CONSOLIDATED MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 351.

Submitted April 20, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Where diversity of citizenship exists so that the suit is cognizable in some
Circuit Court the objection to the jurisdiction of the particular court in
which the suit is brought may be waived by appearing and pleading to
the merits. In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, overruling anything to the contrary in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449.
In a State where objection that the court has not jurisdiction of the person
must-as in Montana under code § 1820-be taken by special appearance
and motion aimed at the jurisdiction, the interposition by defendant of a
demurrer going to the merits as well as to the jurisdiction amounts to
a waiver of the objection that the particular Circuit Court in which he is
sued is without jurisdiction.
While, under § 914, Rev. Stat., practice in civil causes other than those in
equity or admiralty in United States courts must conform to the state
practice, where the jurisdiction of the Federal courts is involved this court
alone is the ultimate arbiter of questions arising in regard thereto.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John A. Shelton for plaintiff in error.

Mr. C. F. Kelley, Mr. John F. Forbis and Mr. L. 0. Evans
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error brought this action at law against the
defendant in error in the Circuit Court for the District of Montana. Jurisdiction was based solely on the diversity of citizenship of the parties. The plaintiff was a citizen of Utah and the
defendant a citizen of New York. The judge of .the Circuit
Court dismissed the action for want of jurisdiction, and whether

WESTERN LOAN CO. v. BUTTE & BOSTON MIN. CO. 369
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that decision was correct is the single question brought directly
here by writ of error. The Circuit Court for the District of
Montana was without jurisdiction of the action, because neither
of the parties to it was a resident of that district, and the statute (25 Stat. 433) requires that where the jurisdiction is
founded on the fact that the parties are citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought only in the district where one of
them resides. But .we have recently held that'where diversity
of citizenship exists, as it does here, so that the suit is cognizable in some Circuit Court, the objection that there is not jurisdiction in a particular district may be waived by appearing
and pleading to the merits. In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490. Any-.
thing to the contrary said in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, was
overruled. The question here, therefore, is narrowed to the
inquiry, whether the defendant waived the objection to the
jurisdiction.
While the confoimity act, Rev. Stat. § 914, provides that
the practice, pleadings, forms and modes of proceeding in civil
causes, other than those in equity and admiralty, in the Circuit and District Courts of the United States, shall conform,
as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings and forms, and
modes of proceedings existing at 'the time in like causes in
courts of record of the State wherein such United States courts
are held, nevertheless, in cases like the one under consideration,
involving the jurisdiction of the Federal courts, the ultimate
determination of such question is for this court alone. This
doctrine finds illustration in the case of Mexican Central Railway Co. v. Pinkney, 149 U. S. 194, in which the subject is discussed by Mr. Justice Jackson, delivering the opinion .of the
court. In that case it was held that the Texas statute, which
had been upheld by the courts of the State, giving to a special
appearance, made solely to challenge the court's jurisdiction,
the effect of a general appearance, was not binding upon the
Federal courts sitting in the State, notwithstanding the provisions o," § 914 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
In the case at bar, defendant filed its demurrer to the comVOL. ccx-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

plaint alleging: 1st, that the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the action; 2d, that the court has no jurisdiction of
the person of the defendant; 3d, that said complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
this defendant; 4th, that the complaint is uncertain; 5th, that
the complaint is unintelligible.
The learned judge on the seventh of November, 1903, overruled the demurrer as to the first, secondl and third grounds
of the complaint, but sustained it upon the fourth and fifth
grounds, in that the complaint was uncertain and unintelligible.
Thereupon the plaintiff filed an amended complaint; the defendant repeated the same grounds of demurrer, and the same
was submitted to the court on the first and second grounds,
those covering jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the action and jurisdiction over the person of the defendant, respectively, and on the twenty-sixth of October, 1906, Judge Hunt,
holding the Circuit Court for the District of Montana, in a well
considered opinion held that inasmuch as the demurrer was
interposed upon jurisdictional and other grounds, and was not
confined to jurisdiction over the person alone, but reached the
merits of the action, the case being one within the general jurisdiction of the court, although instituted in the wrong district, the defendant had waived its personal privilege not to be
sued in the Montana district and had submitted to the jurisdiction. In support of his view Judge Hunt cited InteriorConstruction & Improvement Company v. Gibney, 160 U. S. 217;
In re Keasbey & Mattison Company, 160 U. S. 221; Ex parte
Schollenberger,96 U. S. 369; Central Trust Company v. McGeorge,
151 U. S. 129; St. Louis &c. R. R.- Co. v. McBride, 141 U. S.
127; Lowry v. Tile, 98 Fed. Rep. 817; Texas & Pacific Railway
v. Saunders, 151 U. S. 105. Thereafter, before any further
steps were taken in the case, the learned judge changed his
ruling on the question of jurisdiction, and filed the following
brief memorandum opinion:
"As neither party to this action was, at the time of the institution thereof, a citizen or resident of the State of Montana,

WESTERN LOAN CO. v. BUTTE & BOSTON MIN. CO. 371
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

upon the authority of Ex parte Abram C. Wisner, decided by
the Supreme Court December 10, 1906, and followed by the
Court of Appeals of this circuit in Yellow Aster Mining Company and Southern Pacific Company v. R. M. Burch, decided
February 11, 1907, I must reverse the ruling heretofore made
by me upon the demurrer, and dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction.
"So ordered."
Let us see, then, whether the defendant had submitted to
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. It had appeared and filed
its demurrer to the original complaint, invoking the judgment
of the court, as hereinbefore stated, and the court had ruled
against it on the question of jurisdiction, and upon the merits
of the cause of action, only sustaining the demurrer as to the
form of the allegations in the complaint. It invoked and obtained a ruling on the merits so far as the legal sufficiency of
the cause of action is concerned. Then the amended complaint
was filed. The court sustained its jurisdiction upon hearing
the demurrer, which ruling is subsequently changed on the'
authority of Ex parte Wisner, which is now overruled in In re
Moore, in so far as it was said in the Wisner case that a waiver
could not give jurisdiction over a person sued in the wrong'
district, where diversity of citizenship existed.
So far from being obliged to raise the objection to the jurisdiction over its person by demurrer, as is contended by defendant in error, it was at liberty to follow the practice pursued in'
the code States under sections similar to § 1820 of the Montana!
code, making a special appearance by motion aimed at the
jurisdiction of the court over its person, or to quash the service
of process undertaken to'be made upon it in the district wherein'
it was not personally liable to suit under the act of Congress.
This course was open to the defendant in the United States:
Circuit Court, as is shown by the case of Shaw v. Quincy Mining'
Co., 145 U.S. 444, a suit in a district in the State of New York.'
In that case the parties were a citizen of Massachusetts and a
corporation of Michigan, being citizens of States other than'

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

New York. A motion was made entering a special appearance
for the purpose of setting aside the service. This manner of
raising the question, it was held, did not amount to a waiver
of the objection to jurisdiction. The same course was pursued
with the approval of this court in In re Keasbey & Mattison Co.,
Petitioners,160 U. S. 221.
In St. Louis & San FranciscoR. R. Co. v. McBride, 141 U. S.
127, the case, like the present one, arose in a code State. Suit
was brought in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Arkansas. The Arkansas code in respect
to grounds of demurrer is identical with the Montana code.
Kirby's Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, 1904, p. 1285.
Following the Arkansas code, as the defendant in this case follows the Montana code, the defendant filed a demurrer in language identical upon these points with the demurrer in this case.
The demurrer reads: "1st. Because the court has no jurisdiction
of the person of the defendant. 2d. Because the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject-matter of the action. 3d. 73ecause
the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action."
Of the effect of this demurrer Mr. Justice Brewer, delivering
the opinion of the court, said:
"Its demurrer, as appears, w.-- based on three grounds:
Two referring to the question of jurisdiction and the third that
the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action. There was, therefore, in the first instance, a general
appearance to the merits. If the case was one of which the
court could take jurisdiction, such an appearance waives not
only all defects in the service, but all special privileges of the
defendant in respect to the particilar court in which the action
is brought."
This case presents the same question. We are of opinion
that the defendant had waived objection to jurisdiction over
its person, and by filing the demurrer on the grounds stated
submitted to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
Judgment reversed.

