OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

210 U. S.

CITY OF ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS COMPANY.
SAME v. ST. LOUIS AND SUBURBAN RAILWAY
COMPANY.
SAME v. ST. LOUIS AND MERAMEC RIVER RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Nos. 193, 194, 195.

Argued March 20, 23, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.

While a State, or a municipal corporation acting under the authority of the
State, may deprive itself by contract of its lawful power to impose certain taxes or license fees, such deprivation only follows the use of clear
and unambiguous terms; any doubt in the interpretation of the alleged
contract is fatal to the exemption.
The fact that a street railway company has agreed to pay for the use of the
streets of a city for a given period does not, in the absence of unequivocal terms to that effect, create an inviolable contract within the meaning and protection of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution which
will prevent the exaction of a license tax within the acknowledged power
of the city. New Orleans City and Lake Railway Company v. New Orleans,
143 U. S. 192.
The ordinances of the city of St. Louis, granting rights of construction and
operation to street railways involved in this case, do not contain any
clearly expressed obligation on the part of the city.to surrender its right
to impose further license or taxes upon street railway cars which is within
the meaning and protection of the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
THE

facts arestated in the opinion.

Mr. William F. Woerner, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bates
was on the brief, for appellant:
Under its charter, derived from the constitution of Missouri,
art. IX, §§ 20-25, the city of St. Louis had the broad and
specific power, in general, to enact ordinance 21,087 imposing a
license tax on all street railway.cars operated within its limits,
as well as to enact the prior ordinance thereby replaced which
had fixed the amount at $25.00 per car, per annum. The power

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U. S.

Argument for Appellant.

to tax as well as to license is conferred in express terms. Charter of St. Louis, art. III, § 26, cl. 5; Springfield v. Smith, 138
Missouri, 645, 654; Kansas City v. Corrigan, 18 Mo. App. 206;
27 Am. & Eng. Enc. Law (2d ed.), "Street Railways," p. 52;
Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S.365. See further
on the general power of cities to impose license taxes in Missouri: St. Louis v. Weitzel, 130 Missouri, 600, 619; Aurora v.
McGannon, 138 Missouri, 38, 45; St. Louis v. Green, 7 Mo. App.
468, 474, aff'd on this point in 70 Missouri, 562.
An examination of the numerous franchise or right-of-way
ordinances to the predecessors of appellees, demonstrates that
the conditions therein recited "in consideration" of which the
grants were made, are conditions annexed under art. X of the
city charter, and assumed by the street car companies in order
to obtain the city's initial consent, necessary under the state
constitution, and cannot be construed as an exercise of the
power conferred in the city charter in art. III, § 26, cl. 5, to
tax street cars, nor as an exemption from such taxes.
There can be no question as to the right or propriety of the
city to impose just such terms and conditions before giving its
consent as it chose to impose in the said right-of-way ordinances, to wit: payment of certaih fixed stipulated sums, or
percentage of gross receipts increasing as the franchise ages,
paving and repair of space between the rails, rate of fare, time
for completion of work, etc.; all of such provisions stand upon
the same basis as to the city's power, but vary in particularity
with each respective ordinance.
.Whilst it is true in one sense that all Missouri corporations,
including street railways, derive their franchises or right to
exist originally from the State, acting through the General
Assembly under general law, yet the rights-of-way conferred
by the city upon street railroads are in effect equivalent to
franchises, because unlike other corporations, under the Constitution, no street railroad can be granted the right "to construct aid operate a street railroad within any city, town,
village, or on any public highway without first acquiring the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Argument for Appellant.

210 i. S.

consent of the local authorities, nor can the franchise so granted
be transferred without similar assent." Constitution of Missouri of 1875, art. XII, §20. See also as to such power being
equivalent to a franchise: Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400, loc.
cit. 457-460; State ex rel. Cream City Ry. v. Hilbert, 72 Wisconsin, 184, loc. cit. 190.
And the charter of St. Louis also expressly provides that in
granting the right-of-way or franchise to a street railway, the
city "as a consideration therefor, may impose a per capita
tax on passengers transported or an annual tax on gross receipts." Charter, art. X, § 1.
In construing the ordinance of a city conferring upon a street
railway company the authority to construct and operate a street
railway, the right of the city to exact license taxes will not be
denied unless such right has been expressly surrendered in the
ordinance. Such grants are construed strictly against the corporation companies, and liberally in favor of the public; silence
is negation, and doubt is fatal to the claim. There is no such
surrender by a grant to operate, construct and maintain a street
railway, though given upon compliance with certain conditions and payments. And when the contract ordinance between
the city and the company does not in terms dispense with the
payment of a license tax, the rights of a company are not impaired by a subsequent ordinance requiring such payment.
Springfield v. Smith, 138 Missouri, 645, 655; Wyandotte v. Corrigan, 35 Kansas, 21; New Orleans City Ry. v. New Orleans, 143
U. S. 192; Railway Co. v. Philadelphia, 101 U. S. 528; Met.
Street Ry. Co. v. New York, 199 U. S. 1, 37; Savannah Ry. v.
Savannah, 198 U. S. 392, 398; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400,
471; State ex rel. Cream City Ry. v. Hilbert, 72 Wisconsin, 184,
194; Newport &c. Ry. v. Newport, 100 Virginia, 157; New Orleans v. Orleans Ry. Co., 42 La. Ann. 4; New Orleans v. New
Orleans Ry. Co., 40 La. Ann. 587; San Jose v. S. J. Railway,
53 California, 475, 481; State v. Herod, 29 Iowa, 123; Rochester
Ry. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, 248; Cleveland Electric Ry. v.
Cleveland, 204 U. S. 116, 130.

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henry S. Priest, for appellees:
The city of St. Louis had the power to grant the right to construct railways in the streets of the city; andthe right to operate cars thereon for a definite period and a specific sum, payable ismight be agreed. It might do both in a single ordinance,
and such an ordinance when accepted by the grantee would
become a binding and unalterable contract. This we claim it
did by the several ordinances pleaded and put in evidence.
Detroitv. Railway Co., 184 U. S. 368; Stearns v. Minnesota, 179
U. S. 223; Art; III, § 26, subd. 5, 11, City Charter; Art. IV, City
Charter.
The charter reservation of the right to alter, amend or repeal
is not properly under discussion, because the ordinance which
impairs the right does not pretend to be an amendment, alteration or repeal of the special ordinances granting the several
rights to the different companies; and if it did, the right does
not exist in such cases. Cases supra and Art. III, § 28, City
Charter; Ruschenberg v. Railway Co., 161 Missouri, 70.
MR.

JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases were submitted together and involve the effect
of certain ordinances of the city of St. Louis, which are alleged
to be binding contracts protected by the Federal Constitution.
A bill was filed in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Missouri by the United Railways Company of St. Louis and the St. Louis Transit Company, the
former being the lessor and the. latter the lessee of a large
system of street railways in the city of St. Louis. The bill seeks
to enjoin 'the enforcement of a certain ordinance, No. 21,087,
in the city of St. Louis, passed March 25, 1903, alleging violation of the contract clause of the Constitution and of rights
secured by the Fourteenth Amendment. The case was tried
upon the' bill, answer, replication and an agreed statement of
facts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

The complainants are the owners of certain rights granted by
ordinances to a number of street railway companies in the city
of St. Louis, the assignors of the complainants. These ordinances are set out in the record and are quite numerous. Some
of them cover quite extended terms, running as long as forty
and fifty years. They purport on their face to grant to the
railway companies named in the ordinances, their licensees,
successors and assigns, rights in certain streets "to operate,
maintain and construct,"- " to lay down, construct, operate
and maintain,"-" to reconstruct its tracks and maintain and
operate its railway thereon." The grants in these ordinances
are in consideration of certain undertakings and obligations
stated therein on behalf of the railway companies, which are
thus epitomized in the opinion of the learned judge in the
case in the Circuit Court: (1) To commence and complete the
work of laying down the tracks and installing the road within
certain specified periods. (2) To grade the streets from curb
to curb. (3) To construct and keep in repair that portion of
the street lying between the tracks and twelve inches outside
thereof. (4) To cause cars to be run day and night at certain
intervals named in the ordinances. (5) To pay certain stipulated sums of money, or certain percentages of the gross earnings of the several companies, to the city each year during the
continuance of the privileges specified in the contract.
At the time these ordinances were passed there was in force
in the State of Missouri a certain provision of the state constitution, namely:
"No law shall be passed by the general assembly granting
the right to construct and operate a street railroad within any
city, town, village, or on any public highway, without first
acquiring the consent of the local authorities having control
of the street or highway proposed to be occupied by such street
railroad; and the franchise so granted shall not be transferred
without similar assent first obtained."
. The city charter of St. Louis contains, among others, the
following provisions:

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.
"ARTICLE

X.

"SEc. 1. Authority of municipal assembly in reference to
street railroads-May sell franchises or impose a per capita tax
or a tax on gross receipts.-The municipal assembly shall have
power by ordinance to determine all questions arising with
reference to street railroads, in the corporate limits of the city,
whether such questions may involve the constructions of such
street railroads, granting the right of way, or regulating and
controlling them after their completion; and also shall have
power to sell the franchise or right of way for such street railroads to the highest bidder, or, as a consideration therefor,
to impose a per capita tax on the passengers transported, or
an annual tax on the gross receipts of such railroad, or on each
car, and no street railroad shall hereafter be incorporated or
built in the city of St. Louis except according to the above and
other conditions of this charter, and in such manner and to
such extent as may be provided by ordinance."
There was also in force in the city charter of St. Louis,
article III, § 26, subdivision 11, which empowers the city,
through its mayor and municipal assembly:
"Eleventh.-To protect rights of city in corporationsGrant, regulate and repeal railway franchises-Free passes on
street railways prohibited.-To take all needful steps in and
out of the State, to protect the rights of the city in any corporation in which the city may have acquired an interest; to
have sole power and authority to grant to persons or corporations the right to construct railways in the city, subject to
the right to amend, alter or repeal any such grant, in whole or
in part, and to regulate and control the same as to their fares,
hours and frequency of trips, and the repair of their tracks,
and the kind of their rails and vehicles; but every right so
granted shall cease, unless the work of construction shall be
begun within one year from the granting of the ,right and be
continued to completion with all reasonable practical speed,
and it slhall be the cause of forfeiture of the rights and privileges derived from the city of any railroad company operating

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

its road only within this city, which shall allow aqy person to:
ride or travel on its road gratuitously or for less than usual'
price of fare, unless such person be an officer or employee of
such company."
The fifth subdivision of § 26 of article III, clause 5, confers
upon the mayor and assembly the power to license, tax and
regulate certain occupations and kinds of business, vehicles,
conveyances, etc., among others, street railway cars. As appears from' the agreed statement of facts, at the time the ordinances granting rights to the street railways were passed
there were sections of the municipal code of St. Louis (2134
et seq.) in force, requiring the street railway companies to pay
to the city collector an annual license fee of $25 for each and
every car used by them, in transporting passengers for hire
in the city. These sections were passed under the power conferred to license, tax and regulate occupations, vehicles and
,street railway cars.
The ordinance which is the subject-matter of this controversy is No. 21,087, purporting to impose a tax equal to one
mill for each pay passenger on each car, and purporting to be
an amendment of the sections of the municipal code fixing the
license tax at $25 per car. It is stipulated in the agreed statement of facts that all the railway companies named in the
complaint, including the United Railways Company and the
St. Louis Transit Company, paid the annual license of $25 per
car until the going into effect of ordinance 21,087.
This case was decided by the learned judge of the Circuit
Court upon the theory that the power of the city to give its
consent to the use of the streets for the purpose of constructing and operating railroads, and the power to license street
railway cars, were both exercised in the special ordinances in
question, and that in fixing the compensation to be paid by
the railway companies an irrevocable contract was made which
prevented the -city, during the terms of the ordinances, from
imposing any.license fee or tax for the operation of the cars;
for, says the learned judge:

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U.S.

"There is neither statutory command nor any perceptible
reason why both these powers should not be exercised in one
and the same ordinance, and 'such, in my opinion, is the obvious purpose of the original ordinances granted to complainants' assignors.
"The right 'to construct and operate' is conferred in terms
admitting of no doubt. The license, which is essentially an
occupation tax, is, in my opinion, also fixed in each of the ordinances.- The several original ordinances or contracts clearly
mean that the city exacted, among other things, certain
quarterly or yearly payments of money to be made to it by
the railroad companies as a consideration for the grant by it
of the right to occupy and use its streets for the purpose of
laying down, maintaining and operating railroad tracks
thereon. The law nowhere commands that the license fee,
as authorized by the fifth subdivision in question, shall be for
annual or other terminal, occupation. And I perceive no
reason why the city may not at the outset fix such a license.
for the full term of its grant. This is what I think it did in
and by the terms and stipulations of the several ordinances in
question."
The theory, then, upon which the bill was framed and this
case decided was that the city, having once fixed a price for
the use of its streets, which the railway companies had agreed
to pay, there was no right to impose a license tax upon the
railway companies Under the ordinance of March 5, 1903,
amending the municipal code in the manner already referred
to. These sections of the municipal code requiring the payment of the license fee impose a tax, as the main purpose of
their enactment is the raising of revenue. City of St. Louis v.
Spiegel, 75 Missouri, 145, 146.
The principles involved in this case have been the subject
of frequent consideration in this court, and while it can be no
longer doubted that a State or municipal corporation, acting
under its authority, may deprive itself by contract of the
power to exercise a right conferred by law to collect taxes or
yoL. ccx-,-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

license fees, at the same time the principle has been established
that such deprivation can only follow when the State or city has
concluded itself by the use of clear and unequivocal terms.
The existence of doubt in the interpretation of the alleged
contract is fatal to the claim of exemption. The section of
the Missouri constitution and the laws, to which we have referred, clearly show that while the franchise of the corporation essential to its existence is derived from the State, the
city retains the control of its streets, and the use of them must
be acquired from the municipal authorities upon terms and
conditions which they shall fix. Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S.
400.
An examination of the cases in this court shows that it is
not sufficient that a street railway company has agreed to pay
for the privilege of using the streets for a given term, either
in a lump sum, or by payments in installments, or percentages
of the receipts, to thereby conclude the municipality from
exercising a statutory authority to impose license fees or taxes.
This right still exists unless there is a distinct agreement,
clearly expressed, that the sums to be paid are in lieu of all
such exactions.
A leading case is New Orleans City & Lake Railroad Co. v.
New Orleans, 143 U. S. 192. In that case the city of New
Orleans, on October 2, 1879, sold to the New Orleans City
Railroad. Company, assignor of the plaintiff in error, for the
price of $630,000, the right of way and franchises for running
certain lines of railroad for carrying passengers within the
city, for the term of twenty-five years, and the company agreed
to construct its railroad, to keep the, streets in repair, to comply
with the regulations as to the style and running of cars, rates
of fare and motive power, and to annually pay into the city
treasury, upon the assessed value of the road and fixtures, the
annual tax levied upon the real estate,. the value of the road
and fixtures to be assessed by the- usual mode of assessment;
and the city bound itself not to grant, during the period for
which the franchises were sold, a 'right of way to any other

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U. S.

.275

Opinion of the Court.

railroad company upon the streets where their right of way
was sold, unless by mutual agreement between the city and
the purchaser or purchasers of the franchises.
Afterwards, in the year 1887, under authority of a legislative act, the city imposed a license tax upon the business of
carrying on, operating and running a horse or steam road
for the transportation of passengers within the limits of the
city, payable annually, and based on the annual gross receipts; when the same exceeded $500,000, the amount to be
$2,500. The railroad company admitted its receipts exceeded
that sum, and claimed the protection of the Constitution of
the United States for its franchise contract extending to January 1, 1906, as above set forth.
This would seem to be as strong a case for the exemption
from the license tax as could be made, short of a specific agreement binding the city not to exercise its power in that direction.
This court affirmed the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana denying the cortention of the railroad company
(40 La. Ann. 587), and Mr. Justice Gray,. speaking for the
court, said (143 U. S.195):
"Exemption from taxation is never to be presumed. The
legislature itself cannot be held to have intended to surrender
the taxing power, unless its intention to do so has been declared in clear and unmistakable words. Vicksburg &c. Railroad v. Dennis, 116 U. S.665, 668, and cases cited. Assuming,
without deciding, that the city of New Orleans was authorized
to exempt the New Orleans City Railroad Company from taxation under general laws of the State, the contract between
them affords no evidence of an intention to do so. The franchise to build and run a street railway was as much subject
to taxation as any other property.
"In Gordon v. Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133, upon which
the plaintiff in error much relied, the only point decided was
that an act of the legislature, continuing the charter of a bank,
upjon condition that the corporation should pay certain sum

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

annually for public purposes, and declaring that, upon, its
acceptance and complying with the provisions of the act, the
faith of the State was pledged not to impose any furthei7 tax
or burden upon the corporation during the continuance of the,
charter, exempted the stockholders from taxation on their
stock; and so much of the opinion as might, taken by itself,
seem to support this writ of error has been often explained or
disapproved. State Bank v. Knoop, 16 How. 369, 386, 401,
402; People v. Commissioners, 4 Wall. 244, 259; Jefferson
Bank v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436-446; Farrington v. Tennessee,
95 U. S. 679, 690, 694; Stone v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 116 U. S. 307, 328.
"The case at bar cannot be distinguished from that of Memphis Gaslight Co. v. Shelby County, in which this court upheld
a license tax upon a corporation which had acquired by its
charter the privilege of erecting gasworks and making and
selling gas for fifty years; and, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller,
said: 'The argument of counsel is that if no express contract
against taxation can be found here it must be implied, because
to permit the State to tax this company by a license tax for
the privilege granted by its charter is to destroy that privilege.
But the answer is that the company took their charter subject
to the same right of taxation in the State that applies to all
other privileges and to all other property. If they wished or
intended to have an exemption of any kind from taxation,
or felt that it was necessary to the profitable working of their
business, they should have required a provision to that effect
in their charter. The Constitution of the United States does
not profess in all cases to protect property from unjust and oppressive taxation by the States. That is left to the stae constitution and state laws.' 109 U. S. 398, 400."
This case was but an affirmation of the doctrine announced
in Radroad Company v. Philadelphia,101 U. S. 528; Delaware
Road Tac Case, 18 Wall. 206. The New Orleans case was quoted
with approval, and the former cases in this court reviewed in the
recent case of Metropolitan Street Railway Company v. New

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

York Tax Commissioners, 199U... 1. In that case the decision
of the New York Circuit Court of Appeals was affirmed, sustaining the right of the State of New York to tax franchises
of street railway companies, -notwithstanding the railway companies had already paid for the right to construct, maintain
and operate and use street railroads in consideration of payment into the treasury of the city of New York of a percentage
of their gross receipts. In that case Mr. Justice Brewer, who
spoke for the court, said (pp. 37, 38):
"Applying these well-established rules to the several contracts, it will be perceived that there was no express relinquishment of the right of taxation. The plaintiff in error must rely
upon some implication and not upon any direct stipulation.
In each contract there was a grant of privileges, but the grant
was specifically in respect to the construction, operation and
maintenan6e of a street railroad. These were all that in terms
was granted. As consideration for this grant the grantees were
to pay something, and such payment is nowhere said to be' in
lieu of or as an equivalent or substitute for taxes. All that can
be extracted from the language used was a grant of privileges
and a payment therefor. Other words must be written into
the contract before there can be found any relinquishment of
the power of taxation."
Many state authorities have reached the same conclusion.
We will refer to some of them. Springfield v. Smith, 138
Missouri, 645; Wyandotte v. Corrigan, 35 Kansas, 21; State ex
rel. Cream City Ry. v. Hilbert, 72 Wisconsin, 184; Newport &c.
Ry. v. Newport, 100 Virginia, 157; New Orleans v. Orleans Ry.
Co., 42 La. Ann. 4; New Orleans v. New Orleans Ry. Co., 40 La.
Ann. 587; San Jose v. S. J. Railway, 53 California, .475, 481;
State v. Herod, 29 Iowa, 123.
Applying these principles to the ordinances in question, we
do not find in them any express relinquishment of the power
to levy the license tax which is the subject-matter of this controversy. In some of them 'is found the language that "such
payments are to be in addition to all taxes, as now or 'after-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

wards shall be prescribed by law." In one ordinance concerning
consolidation of roads it is agreed, as to certain payments from
gross receipts, that such "payments shall be in addition to all
other taxes or license fees now or hereafter prescribed by law."
In one of them is found the following language:
"Said Lindell Railway Company shall in lieu of all payments, now required of it under any and all previous ordinances, and such as are now, or may hereafter by ordinance
passed be required of any railroad company whose tracks it is
hereby authorized to acquire, etc., on the first day of (various
months) pay to the city of St. Louis, etc. (various sums),
which several sums said Lindell Railway Company, its successors and assigns, in consideration of the rights and privileges granted by this ordinance, hereby agrees to pay to the
city of St. Louis, at the times,

.

.

."

etc.

The stipulation as to the payments to be in lieu of all other
payments under previous ordinances and such as are now or
may by ordinance be hereafter passed, etc., in this ordinance
may well be referred to the special ordinances passed under
the right to grant the use of the streets "in consideration of
the rights and privileges" therein granted, and are not designed to repeal pro tanto the section of the municipal code then
in effect imposing a license fee on railway cars operated in the
city.
No ordinance contains any express relinquishment of the
right to exact a license fee or tax. It is true that the city in
granting the right to use the streets by special ordinance and
in exercising by general ordinance the right conferred in the
charter to impose a license tax upon cars is dealing with rights
and privileges somewhat similar, but, nevertheless, essentially
separate and distinct. In the special ordinances the city is
making an arrangement with the railway company to confer
the right to use the streets in consideration of certain things
the company is to do by way of operation and otherwise, including, it may be, payment of fixed sums or a proportion of
receipts in consideration of the rights and privileges conferred.

ST. LOUIS v. UNITED RAILWAYS CO.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The city does this by virtue of its power to grant rights and
privileges and contrcl their exercise in the streets of the city,
power expressly conferred in the charter of the city.
In the fixing of a license tax upon all companies alike for the
privilege of using cars in the city, it is exerting other charter
powers. It makes provision uniformly applicable to all persons or companies using street cars. It is a revenue measure
equally applicable to all coming within its terms. We do not
perceive that the exercise of the power to grant privileges in"
the streets in making terms with companies seeking such
rights, in the absence of plain and unequivocal terms to that
effect, excludes the city's right to impose the license tax under
the power conferred for that purpose.
How, then, stands the case? Is it true that because the city
has required and the company has agreed to pay certain sums
fixed in amount, or based on the receipts, for the use of the
streets, that it has thereby deprived itself of the po er to exercise the authority existing at the time the ordinances were
passed to license street railway cars, and in the exercise of that
power to charge a license fee or tax? At the time when the
several special ordinances were passed the city of St. Louis
had the right under its charter to grant the use of the streets
for the use of the company, upon the terms which are named
in such ordinances. It also had authority under another provision of its charter to require a license fee on certain vehicles,
including street railway cars. There was in force a section of
the municipal code assessing this license charge at $25.00 per
annum for each car. (This is the code which has been amended
by No. 21,087, in controversy.) It is stipulated that until the
passage of the last-named ordinance the railway companies
paid the license fees without objection. It is said in the opinion of the learned judge below that the tax, equal to one mill
for each paid passenger, amounts to a tax of two per cent on
the gross receipts, and is, therefore, an increase on what the
company had theretofore agreed to pay. But the tax is not
levied on the gross receipts as such, and any license-tax, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

whatever sum imposed, would take something from the gross
receipts of the company.
It seems to us that this case is virtually decided by the rule
laid down in Railway Company v. New Orleans, 143 U. S. 192,
supra, which holds that because a street railway company has
agreed to pay for the use of the streets of the city for a given
period, it does not thereby create an inviolable contract which
will prevent the exaction of a license tax under an acknowledged power of the city, unless this right has been specifically
surrendered in terms which admit of no other reasonable interpretation.
We are of the opinion that an application of settled principles, derived from the decisions of.this court, shows that these
ordinances do not contain any clearly 'expressed obligation on
the part of the city surrendering its right to impose further
license fees or taxes upon street railway cars,-and we are of the
opinion that the learned Circuit Court erred in reaching the
contrary conclusion and in granting a decree perpetually enjoining the enforcement of the ordinance in controversy.
. We have discussed this case on the record and briefs filed in
No. 193. It .was said by the learned counsel in the argument
at bar that cases Nos. 194, 195 involved identical questions.
For the reasons stated the decrees in the three cases are reversed.
Reversed.

