352

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

SCRIBNER v. STRAUS et al., TRADING AS R. H. MACY &
COMPANY.

CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS, INCORPORATED, APPELLANT, v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
Nos. 204, 205.

Argued April 16, 1908.-Decided June 1, 1908.

Bobbs-Merril Co. v. Straus, ante, p. 339, followed as to construction of
ยง 4952, Rev. Stat.,.and the extent of the exclusive right to vend thereby
granted to the owner of a statutory copyright.
Wherethe jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is invoked for the protection of
rights tnder the copyright statute that court cannot consider questions
of contract right not dependent on the statute where diverse citizenship
does not exist, or if it does exist, where the statutory amount is not involved.
Both the courts below having found that there was no satisfactory proof. to
support complainants' claim against defendants for contributory infringement by inducing others to violate contracts of conditional sale this court
applies the usual rule and will not disturb such findings.
147 Fed. Rep. 28, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Stephen H. Olin, for appellants, submitted.
Mr. John G. Carlisle, with whom Mr. Edmond E. Wise was
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These actions were submitted at the same time and admittedly involve the same questions of law. The suits were,
brought, the one by a partnership, as Charles Scribner's Sons,

SCRIBNER v. STRAUS.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the other by a corporation, Charles Scribner's Sons, incorporated, against R. H. Macy & Company, to restrain the
selling at retail of the complainant's books, copyrighted under
the laws of the United States, at prices less than those fixed
by complainants, and from buying such copyrighted books
except under the rules and regulations of the American Publishers' Association. The learned counsel for the appellants
in this case, by consent, filed a brief in the case of BobbsMerrill Company v. Isidor Straus and Nathan Straus, Partners
as R. H. Macy & Co., No. 176, just decided, ante, p. 339. So
far as the same questions are involved the decision in No. 176
is pertinent to this case, and these cases are controlled by the
rulings made in that case.
The defendants carried on a department store. Among
other things they sold books at retail, some copyrighted, and
some not. In the year 1901 the American Publishers' Association was formed among certain publishers of copyrighted
books, and in their agreement is found the following:
"III. That the members of the association agree that such
net copyrighted books, and all others of their books, shall be
sold by them to those booksellers only who will maintain the
retail price of such net copyrighted books for one year, 'and
to those booksellers and jobbers only who will sell their books
further to no one known to them to cut such net prices, or
whose name has been given to them by the association as one
who cuts such prices, or who' fails to abide by such fair and
reasonable rules and regulations as may be established by local
associations as hereinafter provided."
Scribner's Sons' catalogue, invoices and bill of goods contained the following notice:
"Copyrighted net books published after May 1, 1901, and
copyrighted fiction published after February 1, 1902, are sold
on condition that prices be maintained as provided by the
regulations of the American Publishers' Association."
In the case of a new publisher, notice was given by correspondence and by sending a blank, as follows:
VOL. ccx-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"American Publishers' Association.
,

190-.

"In consideration of discount allowed on books bought
from

--

--

we hereby agree that for one year from date

of publication we will not sell net books at less than the retail prices fixed by the respective publishers, nor fiction published after February 1,1902, at a greater discount than twentyeight per cent at retail, as provided by the rules of the American
Publishers' Association. We further agree that we will not
sell books published by members of the American Publishers'
Association to any dealer known to us to cut prices of net
books or of new fiction, except as above provided."
The new publisher was required to execute this pledge before deliveries were made, although if dealers refused to sign
the trade was still allowed to sell to them and would sell to
them. If a new member made application for books, such application was referred to the association, and the agreement
executed before deliveries were made.
Macy & Company refused to enter the association or to be
bound by its rules. They sold books at less than the prices
fixed by the association, and bought books from other dealers,
including publications of complainants, and sold them at less
prices than those fixed by the association. And they purchased from dealers who knew that Macy & Company intended to sell at such prices.
Upon the theory that Macy &' Company had notice of these
agreements, it was sought to -hold them as copyright infringers.
Both the Circuit Court (139 Fed. Rep. 193) and the Court of
Appeals (147 Fed. Rep. 28) held that there was nothing in
any of the notices of a claim of right or reservation under the
copyright law, and held that the question was one Iof the right
of the complainants to relief in a court of equity by virtue of
their rights, independent of statutory copyright, in view of
the alleged conditional sale embodied in the notice as to the
copyrighted book. The Circuit Court of Appeals held, rightfully as we think, that-this question was not open in the case,

SCRIBNER v. STRAUS.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

as in the first case there was no diversity of citizenship, nor in
either case a claim of damages in the sum of $2,000, requisite
to confer jurisdiction of questions of rights independent of the
copyright statutes.
Upon the allegations of the bill as to alleged contributory infringement of the copyright, that the defendant had induced
and persuaded sundry jobbers and dealers who had obtained
copyrighted books from the complainants to deliver the same,
to the defendant for sale at retail at less than the prices fixed.
by the complainants, and in violation of the agreement upon.
which the books were obtained, both the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals held that there was no satisfactory
proof that the defendant did thus induce any person to break
his agreement with the complainants. It is contended in the
brief of the complainants that these findings are opposed to
the weight of the testimony, and particularly violate the admissions of the answer, but we think, taking the answer alto-'
gether, it did deny the allegations of the complaint as to the
conduct of the defendant in inducing dealers to violate their
agreements.
Upon the question of fact involved in this branch of the
case both courts below found against the contention of the
complainants in this respect, and, applying the usual rule in'
such cases, we find no occasion to disturb such findings.
The decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals in both cases are
Affirmed.,

