OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Counsel for Parties.

210 U. S.

the sum of the fruits of the illegal acts. The ancient maxims
that something cannot be made out of nothing, and that which
is void for reasons of public policy cannot be made valid by
confirmation or acquiescence, seem to my mind decisive.
I therefore dissent.

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 167. Submitted March 6, 1908.-Decided May 18, 1908.
Congress has the right to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States, and having given jurisdiction to a particular court
to administer the property, that court may, in some proper way, call upon
all parties interested to appear and assert their rights.
The bankruptcy court, or its referee, in which the bankruptcy proceedings
are pending, has jurisdiction under § 60d of the bankruptcy act to reexamine, on petition of the trustee, the validity of a payment or transfer
made by the bankrupt in contemplation of bankruptcy to an attorney for
legal services to be rendered by him, and to ascertain and adjudge what is
a reasonable amount to be allowed for such services and to direct repayment of any excess to the trustee; and if the attorney is a nonresident of the district an order directing him to show cause or a citation
or notice of the proposed hearing may be served without the district.
Jurisdiction to reexamine such a transfer was not conferred upon any state
court.
The trustee may not maintain a plenary suit instituted in the District Court
where the bankruptcy proceeding is pending against such attorney upon
service of process made on such attorney, if he is a non-resident of that
district, outside of the district.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. W. Scott Bicksler, Mr. Edmon G. Bennett and Mr. George
L. Nye for petitioners.
Mr. Harvey Riddell for respondent.

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U.S.

MR.

JUSTICE DAY

Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is here upon certificate from the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
The facts certified are: R. H. Williams had been adjudicated
a barkrupt on January 13, 1904, in the District Court of the
United States for Colorado. On the seventeenth of May, 1905,
it appears that the trustee in bankruptcy (following § 60d)
petitioned the court, representing that the bankrupt in contemplation of filing the petition in bankruptcy did pay to certain counsel, the petitioners in this case, at Hot Springs, Arkansas, $5,000 in cash, and transfer to them a certificate of'
deposit for $3,000, and a certificate of deposit for $1,795; that
said money and property were transferred to said counsel,
Wood and Henderson, by said Williams in contemplation of the
filing of a petition in bankruptcy against him, within four
months of the filing thereof, for legal services to be rendered
thereafter by said Wood and Henderson. They were thereupon
ordered to appearat the office of the referee, in the city of
Colorado Springs in the State of Colorado, on June 20, 1905,
and show cause, if any they had, why an order should not be
made determining and adjudicating the reasonable value of
the services rendered by the said attorneys for the said bankrupt, and that in default of their appearance the referee would
proceed to hear and determine the matter on the evidence
presented. It was ordered that a copy of the citation, together
with a copy of the petition, be served on Wood and Henderson
at Hot Springs, Arkansas, at least twenty days before the
day set for the hearing. On the first day of August, 1905, the
referee in bankruptcy, holding a court of bankruptcy, made
the following order:
"It appearing to the court from the evidence that a copy of
this application, together with a copy of the order to show
cause issued thereon, returnable on the twentieth day of June,
A. D. 1905, was duly served on said J. B. Wood and Jethro P.
Henderson on the twenty-sixth day of May, 1905; and that'

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court. (

210 U. S.

the said J. B. Wood and J. P. Henderson, not having appeared
on the said twentieth day of June, 1905, herein, or shown to
this court any cause why this court should not proceed to reexamine the said transaction; and it further appearing to
this court that the matter of the said hearing has been duly
continued from the said twentieth day of June until the first
day of August, 1905, and that due notice of such continuance
has been served upon the said J. B. Wood and Jethro P. Henderson, and that the said J. B. Wood and Jethro P. Henderson
are fully advised that this hearing would be duly had on this
day; and the said J. B. Wood and Jethro P. Henderson not
having shown cause-against the said application, and the court
having heard the evidence on the part of the said trustee in
support of the said application, and the arguments of counsel
thereon, and the court being fully advised as to all matters of
law and fact arising herein, the court doth find and adjudge
that the said R. H. Williams, in contemplation of the filing of
a petition in bankruptcy against him did, on the fifth day of
December, 1902, transfer to said J. B. Wood and Jethro P.
Henderson, attorneys at law, for services to be rendered, the
sum of $5,000, lawful money of the United States, and one certificate of deposit for the sum of $3,000, issued by the Security
Bank of Hot Springs, Arkansas, to the said R. H. Williams,
and one certificate of deposit issued by the Arkansas National
Bank of Hot Springs, Arkansas, to R. H. Williams for the sum
of $1,795, the said two certificates of deposit having since been
collected by the said J. B. Wood and Jethro P. Henderson.
And the court doth find on reexamination of the said transaction that the sum of $800 is reasonable compensation for the
services rendered the said bankrupt under the terms. of the
transaction by which said money and property were transferred to the said J. B. Wood and Jethro P. Henderson, and
doth find and adjudge that the said transaction is valid to
that extent only, which the court determines and adjudges to
be the reasonable value for said services."
It was thereupon ordered and adjudged that the transaction.

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was valid as to the sum of $800, found to be the reasonable
value of the services, and the trustee was ordered to proceed
to recover the excess, being the sum of $8,995, from said Wood
and Henderson. Thereupon, and after this order, Wood and
Henderson appeared before the referee for the sole purpose of
challenging his jurisdiction to make the foregoing order, upon
the ground that neither the parties nor the subject-matter was
within the jurisdiction of the District Court of Colorado.
Thereafter the case was certified to the District Court, and in
that court Wood and Henderson renewed their objection to
the jurisdiction of the District Court, and that court affirmed
the ruling of the referee; thereupon Wood and Henderson filed
their petition in the Circuit Court of Appeals for a review of
the order of the District Court, and challenged the jurisdiction
of that court and the referee to make the order aforesaid, because they were citizens and residents of Arkansas; that the
service of the notice of proceedings was made upon them at
Hot Springs, in that State; that they had not appeared or submitted to the jurisdiction of the District Court except to raise
the jurisdictional questions; that the subject-matter of the
proceedings was certain transactions which took place wholly
within the State of Arkansas. Thereupon the Circuit Court
of Appeals certified three questions to this court, as follows:
,1.* Has a District Court of the United States sitting in
bankruptcy in which the proceedings in bankruptcy are pending, or its referee, jurisdiction under section 60d of the bankruptcy act to reexamine, on petition of the trustee in bankruptcy, the validity of the payment of money or the transfer
of property by the bankrupt, made in contemplation of the
filing of a petition by or against him in bankruptcy, to an
attorney or counsellor at law, for services to be rendered to him
by such attorney or counsellor, and to ascertain and adjudge
the extent of the reasonable amount to be allowed for such
services, and to direct that the excess may be recovered by
the trustee for the benefit of the estate, in the instance where

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 V. S.

such attorney or counsellor at the time of receiving such payment or property and at the time of the proceedings in question was a non-resident of the State, or of the district, in which
the bankrupt court instituting such inquiry is located, and
where the money or property was so paid to, and is held by,
such attorney or counsellor outside of the district in which
such court of bankruptcy sits, and the order to show cause,
citation, or notice of the proposed hearing is served upon him
without, and not within the district in which such court of
bankruptcy sits?
"2. If a District Court sitting in bankruptcy has this jurisdiction, may it exercise it by means of an order and citation
to show cause duly served on the attorney or counsellor outside of the district of the court of bankruptcy, such attorney
or counsellor being a non-resident of the district in which the
proceedings in bankruptcy are pending?
"3. May a plenary suit instituted by the trustee in bankruptcy against such attorney or counsellor in the District
Court where the estate in bankruptcy is being administered
be maintained upon service of process upon the a.ttorney or
counsellor, who is a non-resident of the district, o'utside of
that district?"
An answer to these questions involves the construction of
§ 60d of the bankruptcy act of 1898, which reads:
"60d. If a debtor shall, directly or indirectly, in contemplation of the filing of a petition by or against him, pay money
or transfer property to an attorney or counsellor at law, solicitor in equity, or proctor in admiralty for services to be
rendered, the transaction shall be reexamined by the court
on the petition of the trustee or any creditor and shall only
be held valid to the extent of a reasonable amount tc be determined by the court, and the excess may be recovred by
the trustee for the benefit of the estate."
This section does not undertake to provide for a :)lenary
suit, but for an examination bnd order in the course of the
administration of the estate with %view to permitting only a

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

reasonable amount thereof to be deducted from it because
of payments of money or transfers of property to attorneys
or counsellors in contemplation of bankruptcy proceedings.
There is no provision for the enforcement of this section in
another court of bankruptcy, where the bankrupt may be
personally served with process in a plenary suit; such court is
not given, authority to reexamine the transaction. No other
court has authority to determine the reasonable amount for
which the transaction can stand. Swartz v. Frank, 183 Missouri, 439.
Section 60d added a feature to the bankruptcy act not found
in former acts, regulating practice and procedure in bankruptcy,
therefore adjudications upon other provisions of the bankruptcy act, or concerning the judiciary act giving jurisdiction
to the courts of the United States have no binding effect in
I
the construction of this section.'
This is not a case of preference, where part of the estate is
transferred to a creditor so as to give to him more of the estate than to others of the same class under § 60 of the bankruptcy act, nor is it a case of fraudulent conveyance under § 67.
It is a transfer in consideration of future services, to be reduced if found unreasonable in amount. in Furth v. Stahl,
205 Pa. St. 439 the opinion is by Mr. Justice Mitchell, and,
speaking for the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, the learned
justice, after quoting § 60d, says:
"A pledge or payment for a consideration given in the
present, or to be given in the future, whether in money or
goods or services, is not a preference. The object of prohibiting preferences is to prevent favoritism, whether for secret
benefit to himself or other reason, among a debtor's creditors
who ought in fairness to stand on the same footing. A transaction by which the debtor parts with something now, in
return for something he acquires or is to acquire in the future,
is not within the mischief the act was aimed against. Section 60
therefore expressly recognizes this class of transactions; but,
as it is capable of abuse, provides for a reexamination and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

duction, if necessary, to a reasonable amount by the court on
the petition of the trustee or a creditor."
The same statute was before the Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit in the case of Bothe v. Pratt, 130 Fed. Rep. 670.
In that case, in speaking of the provisions of §,60d, Judge
Severens, speaking for the court, said:
"It would rather seem that Congress, engaged, as many
signs indicate, in guarding the assets of those in contemplation of bankruptcy, to the end that they might be brought
without unnecessary expenditure to the hands of the trustee
for distribution to creditors, while it would not deny to the
debtor the right to employ and pay for legal assistance in his
affairs during that critical period, yet proposed a restraint upon
that privilege by requiring that such payment should be
reasonable in amount-in short, proposed to apply to the incipient stage of bankruptcy the provident economy which it
sought to apply to the administration of the bankrupt estate.
It may have been thought that there was the same reason
for such restraint at that stage of affairs as subsequently. And
it is to be observed that the transaction would not become
the subject of revision unless bankruptcy ensued. It put attorneys, solicitors and proctors in no worse position than it
did some other classes of those having business with the debtor."
And the court reached the conclusion that there having been
no petition of the trustee or any creditor to inquire into the
reasonableness of the compensation to be paid attorneys in
contemplation of bankruptcy, his claim should be allowed,
and the learned judge adds: "As the rights of the parties are
governed by the specific provision of the statute relating to
the subject, no question of preference by reason of the payments arises."
The bankrupt act itself leaves no doubt as to what is a preference which can be sued for in another jurisdiction, for the
section (60) provides:
"A person shall be deemed to have given a preference if,
being insolvent, he has, within four months before the filing

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of the petition, or after the filing of the petition and before
the adjudication, procured or suffered a judgment to be entered against himself in favor of any person, or made a transfer
of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement of such
judgment or transfer will be to enable any one of his creditors
to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any other of
such creditors of the same class."
To undertake to bring within this definition of a preference,
requiring a plenary action for its recovery, the protection given
a bankrupt's estate, because of a transfer of property or money
to an attorney or counsellor for services to be rendered in contemplation of filing a petition in bankruptcy, is to add to the
clearly defined preferences contemplated by the act, and is
to include entirely different transactions, not embraced in the
statutory definition of a preference as Congress has defined
that term.
Section 60d is sti generis, and does not contemplate the
bringing of plenary suits or the recovery of preferential transfers in another jurisdiction. It recognizes the temptation of
a failing debtor to deal too liberally with his property in employing counsel to protect him in view of financial reverses
and probable failure. It recognizes the right of such a debtor
to have the aid and advice of counsel, and, in contemplation of
bankruptcy proceedings which shall strip him of his property,
to make provisions for reasonable compensation to his counsel.
And in view of the circumstances the act makes provision that
the bankruptcy court administering the estate may, if the
trustee or any creditor question the transaction, reexamine it
with a view to a determination of its reasonableness.
The section makes no provision for the service of process,
and in that view such reasonable notice to the parties affected
should be required as is appropriate to the case, and an opportunity should be given them to be heard.
We see no reason why notice of the proceedings under § 60d
may not be by mail or otherwise, as the court shall direct, so
that an opportunity is given to appear in the court where the

OCTOBER TERM, 1907
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

estate is to be administered and contest the reasonableness of
the charges in question.
Congress has the right to establish a uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States, and having given jurisdiction to a particular District Court to administer and distribute the property, it may in some proper way in such a
case as this call upon all interested to appear and assert their
rights.
Our attention is called to other cases in which this view has
been taken of this section of the bankruptcy act. In In re
Lewin, 103 Fed. Rep. 850, it was held that a proceeding upon
the petition of a t'ustee under this section is one administrative in its character, and that jurisdiction was not dependent upon service of regular process as in a suit, but is expressly
given by statute, and that a notice of the hearing before the
referee given by mail to the attorneys in interest a reasonable
time before the hearing was sufficient. In speaking of this
section Judge Wheeler says:
"This is not a suit such as is mentioned in that clause of
section 23, but is an administrative proceeding, of which the
bankruptcy court has express jurisdiction, given by this clause
'd' of section 60, if it would not have any by the general grant
of jurisdiction over bankrupts and their estates, and of their
attorneys in the proceedings, as officers of the court. This
specific provision seems rather to have been intended for requiring specific vigilance in this quarter, and for providing for
a recovery of any excess from the attorneys, than for any
special grant of jurisdiction, which, however, it plainly gives.
The course of legal proceedings necessary to be had to affect
private rights is well stated by Judge Sanborn in Rosser's case,
cited. He says, at page 159, Am. Bankr. R. and page 567,
101 Fed. Rep.:
"'Such a course must be appropriate to the case, and just
to the party affected. It must give him notice of the charge
or claim against him, and an opportunity to be heard respecting the justice of the order or judgment sought. The notice

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

must be such that he may be advised from it of the nature of
the claim against him, and of the relief sought from the court
if the claim is sustained.' "
Jurisdiction to reexamine the transfer to counsel was certainly not conferred upon any state court. When the statute
says that if the transfer in contemplation of filing a petition
in bankruptcy shall be found to be excessive it may be reduced
by "the court," is it possible that it was intended to give the
state courts jurisdiction of that much of the administration
of the estate, and oust the District Court of the United States,
and perhaps delay the settlement of the estate until the state
courts of original and appellate jurisdiction should determine
the reasonableness of the counsel fee provided for in contemplation of bankruptcy? The answer to this question is obvious,
and clearly against a construction which has this effect upon
the system of bankruptcy to be administered in the District
Courts of the United States established by the act of Congress.
It is true that the state courts under the bankruptcy act as
it stood before the amendment of February, 1903, were given
jurisdiction to entertain suits to recover preferences to the exclusion of the Federal courts, unless the defendant consented
to be sued in the Federal court. Bardes v. The Bank, 178
U. S. 524. The District Courts had jurisdiction only over
proceedings in -bankruptcy, as distinct from plenary suits
against third persons having possession of transferred property, to be exercised when the District Court had acquired
jurisdiction of the bankrupt's property. Bardes v. The Bank,
supra; White v. Schloerb, 178 U. S. 542; Bryan v. Bernheimer,
181 U. S. 188; Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539.
Section 60d is a part of the original Bankruptcy Act of 1898,
and intended by Congress to be a part of a uniform system of
bankruptcy to be consistently administered by the courts given
jurisdiction. Suppose, then, instead of obtaining the order in
the District Court administering the property, the trustee,
because he could not get personal service upon the attorneys,
had gone to any court within the limits of the State of Arkansas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

state or Federal, upon the theory of a preference, and obtained
jurisdiction by valid service of process, it was in the power cf
the defendants to end the suit by refusing to consent to the
jurisdiction of such court. If suit was begun in the state court
of Arkansas that court would have answered, as did the Supreme
Court of Missouri in Swartz v. Frank, 183 Missouri, 439, the
bankruptcy act confers no jurisdiction upon, a state court to
entertain an application of the trustee, or of a creditor to reduce the provision made for counsel, that jurisdiction is given
alone to the District Court of the United States administering
the property. If the action had been brought in the United
States court it would have made the same answer, and, in addition thereto, the jurisdiction of the Circuit or District Court of
the United States could have been ousted, prior to the amendment of 1903, by the defendants withholding their consent to
the jurisdiction of the Federal court. It is true that by the
amendment referred to (the act of February, 1903) concurrent
jurisdiction with the state courts-is now given to the Federal
courts, to suits for the recovery of property under §60, subdivision b, and §67, subdivision e. These last-named sections
have reference to suits to recover preferences or fraudulent
conveyances. No attempt has been made to change the exercise
of jurisdiction under §60d. The transfer to counsel may be
wholly sustained; it is certainly valid to the extent that it is
reasonable. It is neither a preference nor a fraudulent conveyance, as defined by §§ 60b or 67e of the act.
It is to be noted that in this case, as the statement of the certificate shows, the District Court rendered no judgment against
the defendant for a recovery of the excess, but directed the
trustee to bring an action therefor. It simply assumed and
exercised the jurisdiction conferred by § 60d to determine the
amount of the excessive transfer for a counsel fee provided in
view of filing a petition in bankruptcy. It may be that this
order, though binding upon the parties, cannot be made finally
effectual until a judgment is rendered in a jurisdiction where it
can be executed.

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
-

210 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

We reach the conclusion that no reexamination can be had in
this transaction, except in the District Court of the United
States administering the estate.
If the opinions of text-writers are to be looked to-and certainly they are entitled to much respect-they have spoken
with clear meaning as to the section of the Bankruptcy Act
which is the subject-matter now under consideration. In Loveland on Bankruptcy (3d ed.), p. 166, that author says:
"The petition by the trustee to reexamine a transaction
between the bankrupt and his attorney under this section is
administrative in character, of which the court of bankruptcy'
has jurisdiction, irrespective of section 23 of the act."
And in Collier on Bankruptcy, 6th ed., the rule is thus stated
(p. 492):
"The practice on proceedings of this character-the attorney
being usually an officer of the court-is both simple and summary. Being rarely resorted to, there are no stated rules or
forms applicable. The amount paid must appear in schedule
B (4) of a voluntary petition. Any notice to the attorney
directed by the court is sufficient. The motion may be heard on
affidavits or orally. A suit to recover will rarely be necessary;
though an order to restore, if not obeyed, is perhaps not now
the foundation for a proceeding in contempt."
In Brandenburg on Bankruptcy (3d ed.), § 971, it is said:
"This provision [60d] recognizes this fact [the right to employ
counsel] and approves the payment by the bankrupt to such
attorney of reasonable compensation. The reasonableness of
it may be inquired of by the court upon the petition of the
trustee or any creditor. This proceeding is administrative in
character, in which the jurisdiction of the court is not dependent
on the service of process but is expressly given by statute and
a notice of hearing therein given by mail a reasonable time before the hearing is sufficient."
And in the latest work on the subject, Remington on Bankruptcy, the rule is thus stated:
"The court has jurisdiction over the attorney to require reVOL. ccx-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
Opinion of the Court.

210 U. S.

payment by him. Such jurisdiction may be exercised in the
bankruptcy proceedings themselves; and its exercise is not violative of the rules regarding the form for suits against adverse
claimants; moreover, it is provided for by a special clause of
the bankrupt act itself. Such reexamination should be had,
however, only on due notice to the attorney concerned." Sec.
2099, p. 1298.
. The construction which we have given § 60d does not deprive parties of rights secured under the Seventh Amendment
of the Constitution to trials by jury in suits at common law
where the value in controversy exceeds twenty dollars. This
provision of the Constitution extends to rights and remedies
peculiarly legal in their nature, and such as it was proper
to extend in courts of law by the appropriate modes and
proceedings of such courts. Shields v. Thomas, 18 How. 253262.
This section in effect confers a special jurisdiction in a bankruptcy proceeding; it is only available when property has been
transferred in contemplation of the filing of a petition in bank.
ruptcy. When the affairs of one about to be adjudicated a
bankrupt are in that situation, then the act, recognizing the
right of the bankrupt to legal services to be rendered, undertakes to prevent the diminution of the estate to be administered and distributed for the benefit of creditors beyond a fair
provision for counsel under such circumstances. To the extent
that the provision is unreasonable the transfer is not given the
effect to separate the property from the bankrupt's estate. As
to this excess, the estate comes, within the meaning of the
bankruptcy act, within the jurisdiction of the court, and will
be ordered to be restored and administered for the benefit of
creditors. The order contemplated can only be made after
reasonable notice, which the facts certified in this case show
was given to the petitioners.
The first and second questions should be answered in the
affirmative and the third, as having application to a suit before
the order is made in the bankruptcy proceeding, in the negative.

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

BREWER, PECKHAm and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

with whom MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM
and MR. JUSTICE MOODY concurred, dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER,

I am constrained to dissent in this case, and will state my
reasons therefor. The facts are sufficiently given in the opinion
of the court. The petitioners were lawyers, living at Hot
Springs, Arkansas. They had never been within the State of
Colorado, or appeared in the District Court except to file their
petition for review, and the only service upon them was made
in Arkansas by the delivery of a copy of the application and an
order to show cause. The District Court of Colorado, the court
in which the bankruptcy proceedings were had, confirming
the report of the referee, adjudged that of the money paid to
the petitioners employed by the bankrupt in anticipation of
proceedings in bankruptcy to render services therein, the sum
of $800 was a reasonable compensation for such services, and
ordered that the trustee proceed to recover the excess from
petitioners. Justification for this order is found in this paragraph of the bankruptcy act:
"SEC. 60d. If a debtor shall, directly or indirectly, in contemplation of the filing of a petition by or against him, pay
money or transfer property to an attorney and counsellor at law,
solicitor in equity, or proctor in admiralty for services to be
rendered, the transaction shall be reexamined by the court on
petition of the trustee or any creditor, and shall only be held
valid to the extent of a reasonable amount to be determined
by the court, and the excess may be recovered by the trustee
for the benefit of the estate." 30 Stat. 544, 562.
It is said that this was an administrative and not a judicial
proceeding. Three possibilities are suggested by the section.
One is that the bankruptcy court, after an examination, may
find that there is reason to believe that the attorneys have
been paid an excessive sum, and direct the trustee to proceed by
*action in any court acquiring jurisdiction of the persons of the
attorneys to recover what by that court shall be adjudged
excessive. This would be a strictly administrative proceeding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
BREWER, PEcxHAm and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

-210 U. S.

and if that were the conclusion of. the court I should have
nothing to say in the way of dissent. Another is that'the bankruptcy court both adjudicates the amount of the excess-the
amount which has been wrongfully paid to the attorneys, and
by which, in effect, they have been preferred to the prejudice
of creditors of the bankrupt, and also awards process for the
collection of that excess. This is not suggested in the opinion
of the court, which in effect holds the third possibility, to wit,
that the bankruptcy court can adjudicate the amount of the
wrongful prepayment/leaving the recovery of that amount to be
accomplished by action in a court acquiring jurisdiction of the
person in the ordinary way of legal proceedings. Such a construction is inconsistent with the whole history of the jurisdiction of District and Circuit Courts since the foundation of the
Government, and is, indeed, against the construction placed on
other provisions of the present bankruptcy law.
By Article VI of the Amendments to the Constitution criminal prosecutions are limited to "the State and district wherein.
the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have
been previously ascertained by law." By this, so far as criminal
cases are concerned, a state locality of jurisdiction is established
beyond the power of Congress to disturb. We need not stop to
inquire whether Congress can invest the District Court of a
single district or State with a jurisdiction in civil cases operative
through the whole length and breadth of the country, but has
it done so?
The original judiciary act, passed in 1789 (1 Stat. 73, 79),
provides, in respect to Circuit Courts, that "no civil suit shall
be brought before either of said courts against an inhabitant of
the United States by any original process in any other district
than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be
found at the time of serving the Writ." See also with respect
to the jurisdiction of District Courts, Rev. Stat. § 563, and
with respect to that of Circuit Courts, Rev. Stat. § 629.
Construing the judiciary act of 1789, it was said in Toland
v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 328:

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

BiwER,

PECKHAM

and

MOODY,

JJ., disenting

"The judiciary act has divided the United States into judicial
districts. Within these districts a Circuit Court is required to
be holden. The Circuit Court of each district sits within and
for that district, and is bounded by its local limits. Whatever
may be the extent of their jurisdiction over the subject-matter
of suits, in respect to persons and property, it can only be exercised within the limits of the district. Congress might have
authorized civil procehs from any Circuit Court, to have run
into any State of the Union. It has not done so. It has not
in terms authorized any original civil process to run into any
other district; with the single exception of subpoenas for witnesses, within a limited distance."
While the general conditions of jurisdiction of the Federal
courts were in some respects changed by the act of August 13,
1888 (25 Stat. 433), the change does not affect the present
question.
Before the District Court of Colorado could in ordinary matters acquire jurisdiction over the person of one not found within
its territorial limits, there must be a voluntary appearance of
the defendant. He cannot, in an ordinary litigation, be brought
into that court by service of process outside the limits of the
court's jurisdiction. It has been held that the Circuit Court of
one State has no jurisdiction in matters such as the sale of real
property bey6nd the limits of the State. Boyce's Exrs. v.
Grundy, 9 Pet. 275; Miss. & M. R. R. Co. v. Ward, 2 Black, 485;
Northern Indiana R. R. Co. v. Michigan Central R. R. Co., 15
How. 233. It is true that when suit is brought to enforce any
legal or equitable claim against real or personal property within
the district where the suit is brought one who is not an inhabitant of nor found within the district, and does not voluntarily
appear thereto, can be brought into court by personal service
outside the limits of the district or by publication, as the court
may direct, but any adjudication made in that suit, as regards
such absent defendant without appearance, affects only his
property within the district. Rev. Stat. § 738. So where suit
is brought to foreclose a mortgage or trust deed on property

OCTOBER TERM, 1907.
BREwER. PCKHAM and MooDY, JJ., dissenting.

210 U. S.

situate in several States the settled practice is for proceedings
of foreclosure to be commenced in one court, called the court of
primary jurisdiction, and then, in order to establish and maintain judicial control over the property in the other States, obtain ancillary administration in those States; although if the
defendant, the owner of the property, is brought into the court
of primary jurisdiction that court may act upon him and compel him to do with the property that which ought to be done.
But in all these cases either the person or the property is within
the territorial jurisdiction of the court.
When an individual, not an inhabitant of the State or district and not found therein, is sought to be charged, by reason
only of his indebtedness to a defendant duly served, jurisdiction is not acquired by mere service of notice outside the State,
for the fact of indebtedness does not bring him within the jurisdiction of the court. While for some purposes the situs of a
debt may accompany the creditor, yet that situs is not sufficient to give to a court jurisdiction of a personal action against
the debtor; that must be maintained in the State where the
debtor is found.
Now the recovery of an amount due or of property belonging to an individual or an estate is ordinarily by a common law
action. That the claimant is an estate and in the hands of a
trustee or receiver does not change the nature of the proceeding.
Suppose one of our large railroad properties is in the hands of
receivers, can it be tolerated that the amount of the indebtedness by any individual to that estate can be determined absolutely by the court without a jury? If this be so, what becomes of th6 protection given by Article VII of the Amendments
to the Constitution, that "in suits at common law, where the
value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved"? Even if an action has to be
brought to obtain the process of execution in the State where
the alleged debtor resides, of, what significance is it if the
amount which is to be recovered is already settled, not by a
jury, but by a court acting independently and in a prior pro-

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

BREWER,PECKHAM and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

ceeding? If the benefit of a trial by jury can in that way be
taken away it will take but little ingenuity on the part of lawmakers to provide for the total destruction of the right of trial
by jury, a right which has been considered of priceless benefit,
in all English-speaking nations, and the protection of which
is imbedded in the National as well as state constitutions.
How appropriate in this connection is the language of Mr.
Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court in Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 6 6, 635, where, speaking of an attack;
upon another constitutional provision, he says:
"Illegitimate and unconstitutional practices get their first,
footing in that way, namely, by silent approaches and slight
deviations from legal modes of procedure. This can only be
obviated by adhering to the rule that constitutional provisions
for the security of person and property should be liberally construed. A close and literal construction deprives them of half
their efficacy, and leads to gradual depreciation of the right, as
if it consisted more in sound than in substance. It is the duty
of courts to be watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any stealthy encroachments thereon. Their
motto should be obsta principiis."
Again, it is said that an excessive prepayment to an attorney
does not come within the technical definition of a preference, as
stated in § 60:
"SEc. 60a. A person shall be deemed to have given a prefer-:

ence if, being insolvent, he has, within four months before the
filing of the petition, or after the filing of the petition and be-'
fore the adjudication, procured or suffered a judgment to be
entered against himself in favor of any person, or made a trans-,
fer of any of his property, and the effect of the enforcement
of such judgment or transfer will be to enable any one of his
creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his debt than any'
class."
other of such creditors of the same
An attorney rendering services becomes thereby a creditor,
of the client, and if he is paid more for the services than they are'
worth he has received as creditor more than he is entitled to'

OCTOBR TERM, 1907.
BREWER, PECKHAM and MOODY, JJ., dissenting.

210 U. S.

and comes within the spirit, if not the letter, of § 60, which provides that "a person shall be deemed to have given a preference
if, being insolvent, he has, within four months before the filing
made a transfer of any of his property,
of the petition . .
and the enforcement of such . . . transfer will be to en-

able any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of
his debt than any other of such creditors of the same class."
The idea of bankruptcy is that the bankrupt is unable to pay
his debts in full, and if the attorney has received payment in
full he has received a' greater percentage of his debt than any
other creditor.
While § 60d is not in the bankruptcy act of 1867, obviously
it was specially inserted in the present act for the purpose of
making clear the liability of counsel receiving payment in advance. It is simply a declaration that an excessive prepayment
to counsel employed with a view to bankruptcy proceedings
is to be considered, so far as the excess is concerned, a preference
and recoverable by the trustee in bankruptcy. And unless a
contrary intent be clearly manifested the proceeding to recover
that preference should be in the same way and by the same
tribunals that have jurisdiction of any other proceeding to recover money or property given by way of preference. It would
be giving an unreasonable extension to language to make it not
simply a declaration of the right to recover, but also a limitation of the tribunal in which the recovery can be had or the
amount due determined-a limitation not obtaining in respect
to any other preference.
In In re Waukesha Water Company, 116 Fed. Rep. 1009, it
was held b the District Court of the Eastern District of Wisconsin that "the bankrupt act of 1898 confers no power on a
court of bankruptcy to summon before it by a rule to show
cause third persons who are not parties to the record and who
reside without the district and State, and are there served with
the order, and under the general rules of law governing the
Federal courts, in the absence of express authority, such service
is ineffectual to confer jurisdiction in personam."

In re WOOD AND HENDERSON.
210 U. S.

BREWER, PECKHAM andMooDY, JJ., dissenting.

Again, it is suggested that § 60d provides for proceedings in
the bankruptcy court-no vesting of jurisdiction in any other
than that court-and it is said there is no provision for a plenary
suit to recover the amount of the excessive prepayment and
none for a jury. But by the bankrupt act of March 2, 1867, the
general jurisdiction over bankruptcy proceedings was vested
in the court in which they were commenced, and there was no
special provision for ancillary proceedings in the courts of other
districts, and yet it was decided that those ancillary'proceedings might be held that seemed to be the necessary result of
the general jurisdiction conferred and to be in harmony with the
design and scope of the act. As said by Mr. Justice Bradley, in
Lathrop, Assignee, v. Drake, 91 U. S. 516, 517, 518:
"Their jurisdiction is confined to their respective districts,
it is true; but it extends to all matters and proceedings in bankruptcy without limit. When the act says that they shall have
jurisdiction in their respective districts, it means that the jurisdiction is to be exercised in their respective districts.
Proceedings ancillary to and in aid of the proceedings in bankruptcy may be necessary in other districts where the principal
court cannot exercise jurisdiction; and it may be necessary for
the assignee to institute suits in other districts for the recovery
of assets of the bankrupt. That the courts of such other districts may exercise jurisdiction in such cases would seem to be
the necessary result of the general jurisdiction conferred upon
them, and is in harmony with the scope and design of the act."
For these reasons, thus outlined, I must dissent from the
opinion and judgment of the court.

