OCTOBER TERM, 1993'
Syllabus

BEECHAM v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE FOURTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-445. Argued March 21, 1994-Decided May 16, 1994*
Petitioners Beecham and Jones were each convicted of violating 18 U. S. C.
§922(g), which makes it unlawful for a convicted felon to possess a firearm. Title 18 U. S. C. §921(a)(20) qualifies the definition of "conviction": "What constitutes a conviction [is] determined in accordance with
the law of the jurisdiction in which the proceedings were held," ibid.
(choice-of-law clause), and "[a]ny conviction which has been expunged'
or set aside or for which a person has been pardoned or has had civil
rights restored shall not be considered a conviction

. .

.

,"

ibid. (exemp-

tion clause). The respective District Courts decided that Beecham's
and Jones' prior federal convictions could not be counted because petitioners' civil rights had been restored under state law. The Court of
Appeals reversed, holding that state restoration of civil rights could not
undo the federal disability flowing from a federal conviction.
Held: Petitioners can take advantage of §921(a)(20) only if their civil rights
have been restored under federal law, the law of the jurisdiction where
the earlier proceedings were held. The choice-of-law clause is logically
read to apply to the exemption clause. The inquiry throughout the
statutory scheme is whether the person has a qualifying conviction on
his record. The choice-of-law, clause defines the rule for determining
what constitutes a conviction. Asking, under the exemption clause,
whether a person's civil rights have been restored is just one step in
determining whether something should "be considered a conviction," a
determination that, by the terms of the choice-of-law clause, is governed
by the law of the convicting jurisdiction. That the other three items
listed in the exemption clause are either always or almost always done
by the jurisdiction of conviction also counsels in favor of interpreting
civil rights restoration as possessing the same attribute. , This statutory structure rebuts the arguments used by other Circuits to support
their conclusion that the two clauses should be read separately. Moreover, even if there is no federal law procedure for restoring civil rights
to federal felons, nothing in §921(a)(20) supports the assumption that
*Together with Jones v. 'United States, also on certiorari to the same
court (see this Court's Rule 12.2).

Cite as: 511 U. S. 368 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Congress intended all felons to have access to all the procedures specified in the exemption clause, especially because there are many States
that do not restore civil rights, either. Because the statutory language
is unambiguous, the rule of lenity is inapplicable. See Chapman v.
United States, 500 U. S. 453, 463-464. Pp. 370-374.
993 F. 2d 1539 (first case) and 993 F. 2d 1131 (second case), affirmed.
O'CONNOR,

J., delivered the, opinion for a unanimous Court.

Nathan Lewin argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Mathew S. Nosanchuk and R. Russell Stobbs.
Edward C. DuMont argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General Days,
Assistant Attorney General Harris,Deputy Solicitor General Bryson, and John F. De Pue.
delivered the opinion of the Court.
Today we construe three provisions of the federal firearms statutes:
JUSTICE O'CONNOR

"It shall be unlawful for any person who has been convicted ... [of] a crime punishable by imprisonment for
a term exceeding one year . . . [to possess] any

firearm...." 18 U. S. C. §922(g).
"What constitutes a conviction.., shall be determined
in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction in which
the proceedings were held." § 921(a)(20) (the choice-oflaw clause).
."Any conviction which has been expunged, or set aside
or for which a person has been pardoned or has had civil
rights restored shall not be considered a conviction...."
Ibid. (the exemption clause).
The question before us is which jurisdiction's law is to be
considered in determining Whether a felon "has had civil
rights restored" for a prior federal conviction.

BEECHAM v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court

I
Each of the petitioners was convicted of violating §922(g).
Beecham was convicted in Federal District Court in North
Carolina, Jones in Federal District Court in West Virginia.
Beecham's relevant prior conviction was a 1979 federal conviction in Tennessee, for violating 18 U. S. C. § 922(h). App.
11. Jones' prior convictions were two West Virginia state
convictions, for breaking and entering and for forgery, and
one 1971 federal conviction in Ohio for interstate transportation of a stolen automobile. Id., at 19-20.
Jones had gotten his civil rights restored by West Virginia,
so his two West Virginia state convictions were not considered. Beecham claimed his civil rights had been restored
by Tennessee, the State in which he had been convicted of
his federal offense. The question presented to the District
Courts was whether these restorations of civil rights by
States could remove the disabilities imposed as a result of
Beecham's and Jones' federal convictions.
In both cases, the District Courts concluded the answer
was "yes," though for different reasons: In Beecham's case
the court looked to the law of the State in which the earlier
federal crime was committed (Tennessee); in Jones' case the
court looked to the law of the State in which Jones lived
when he committed the §922(g) offense (West Virginia).
The Fourth Circuit reversed both rulings, reasoning that
state restoration of civil rights could not undo the federal
disability flowing from a federal conviction. See 993 F. 2d
1131 (1993) (Jones' case) and 993 F. 2d 1539 (1993) (judgt.
order in Beecham's case). We granted certiorari to resolve
the conflict this decision created with United States v. Edwards, 946 F. 2d 1347 (CA8 1991), and United States v.
Geyler, 932 F. 2d 1330 (CA9 1991). 510 U. S. 975 (1993).
II
The question in these cases is how the choice-of-law clause
and the exemption clause of § 921(a)(20) are related. If, as

Cite as: 511 U. S. 368 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

the Fourth Circuit held, the choice-of-law clause applies to
the exemption clause, then we must look to whether Beecham's and Jones' civil rights were restored under federal law
(the law of the jurisdiction in which the earlier proceedings
were held). On the other hand, if, as the Eighth and Ninth
Circuits concluded, the two clauses ought to be read separately, see Geyler, supra, at 1334-1335; Edwards, supra, at
1349-1350, then we would have to come up with a special
choice-of-law principle for the exemption clause.
We think the Fourth Circuit's reading is the better one.
Throughout the statutory scheme, the inquiry is: Does the
person have a qualifying conviction on his record? Section
922(g) imposes a disability on people who "ha[ve] been convicted." The choice-of-law clause defines the rule for determining "[w]hat constitutes a conviction." The exemption
clause says that a conviction for which a person has had civil
rights restored "shall not be considered a conviction." Asking whether a person has had civil rights restored is thus
just one step in determining whether something should "be
considered a conviction." By the terms of the choice-of-law
clause, this determination is governed by the law of the convicting jurisdiction.
This interpretation is supported by, the fact that the other
three procedures listed in the exemption clause-pardons,
expungements, and set-asides-are either always or almost
always (depending on whether one considers a federal grant
of habeas corpus to be a "set-aside," a question we do not
now decide) done by the. jurisdiction of conviction. That
several items in a list share an attribute counsels in favor of
interpreting the other items as possessing that attribute as
well. Dole v. Steelworkers, 494 U. S. 26, 36 (1990); Third
Nat. Bank in Nashville v. Impac Limited, Inc., 432 U. S. 312,
322 (1977); Jarecki v. G. D. Searle & Co., 367 U. S. 303, 307
(1961). Though this canon of construction is by no means a
hard and fast rule, it is a factor pointing toward the Fourth
Circuit's construction of the statute.

BEECHAM v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court

In light of the statutory structure, the fact that both

clauses speak of "conviction[s]" rebuts the Eighth and Ninth
Circuits' argument that the two clauses "pertain to two entirely different sets of circumstances"-"the question of
what constitutes a conviction" and "the effect of postconviction events." Geyler, supra, at 1334-1335; see also
Edwards, supra, at 1349. The exemption clause does not
simply say that a person whose civil rights have been restored is exempted from § 922(g)'s firearms disqualification.
It says that the person's conviction "shall not be considered
a conviction." The effect of postconviction events is therefore, under the statutory scheme, just one element of the
question of what constitutes a conviction.
Likewise, the presence of the choice-of-law clause rebuts
the Eighth and Ninth Circuits' argument that the "plain, unlimited language," Edwards, supra, at 1349; see also Geyler,
supra, at 1334, of the exemption clause-with its reference
to "[anyconviction... for which a person has.., had civil
rights restored" (emphasis added)-refers to all civil rights
restorations, even those by a jurisdiction other than the one
in which the conviction was entered. Regardless of what
the quoted phrase might mean standing alone, in conjunction
with the choice-of-law clause it must refer only to restorations of civil rights by the convicting jurisdiction. The plain
meaning that we seek to discern is the plain meaning of the
whole statute, not of isolated sentences. See King v. St.
Vincent's Hospital, 502 U. S. 215, 221 (1991); Massachusetts
v. Morash, 490 U. S. 107, 115 (1989); Shell Oil Co. v. Iowa
Dept. of Revenue, 488 U. S. 19, 26 (1988).
We are also unpersuaded by the Ninth Circuit's argument
that "[b]ecause there is no federal procedure for restoring
civil rights to a federal felon,*Congress could not have expected that the federal government would perform this function," and that therefore "[t]he reference in § 921(a)(20) to the
restoration of civil rights must be to the state procedure."

Cite as: 511 U. S. 368 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

Geyler, 932 F. 2d, at 1333.* This reasoning assumes that
Congress intended felons convicted by all jurisdictions to
have access to all the procedures (pardon, expungement,
set-aside, and civil rights restoration) specified in the exemption clause; but nothing in § 921(a)(20) supports the assumption on which this reasoning is based. Many jurisdictions
have no procedure for restoring civil rights. See Apps. A
and B to Brief for Petitioners (indicating that at least 11
States-Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri,
New Jersey, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Texas, Vermont, and
Virginia suspend felons' civil rights but provide no procedure
for restoring them); see, e. g., Mo. Rev. Stat. § 561.026 (1979
and Supp. 1994); United States v. Thomas, 991 F. 2d 206,
213-214 (CA5)(Texas law), cert. denied, 510 U. S. 1014
(1993). However one reads the statutory scheme--as looking to the law of the convicting jurisdiction, or to the law of
the State in which the prior conduct took place, or to the law
of the State in which the felon now lives or has at one time
lived-people in some jurisdictions would have options open
to them that people in other jurisdictions may lack. Under
our reading of the statute,'a person convicted in federal court
is no worse off than a person convicted in a court of a State
that does not restore civil rights.
*We' express no opinion on whether a federal felon cannot have his civil
rights restored under federal law. This is. a complicated question, one
which involves the' interpretation of the federal law relating to federal
civil rights, see U. S.'Const., Art. I, §2, cl. 1 (right to vote for Representatives); U. S. Const., Amdt. XVII (right to vote for Senators); 28 U. S. C.
§ 1865 (right to serve on a jury); consideration of the possible relevance of
18 U. S. C. § 925(c) (1988 ed., Supp. IV), which allows the Secretary of the
Treasury to grant relief from the disability imposed by. §922(g); and the
determination whether civil rights must be restored by an affirmative act
of a Government official, see United States v. Ramos, 961 F. 2d 1003, 1008
(CAl), cert. denied, 506 U1. S.934 (1992), or whether they may be restored
automatically by operation of law, see United States v. Hall, 20 F. 3d 1066
(CA10 1994). We do not address these matters today.

BEECHAM v. UNITED STATES
Opinion of the Court

Because the statutory language is unambiguous, the rule
of lenity, which petitioners urge us to employ here, is inapplicable. See Chapman v. United States, 500 U. S. 453, 463464 (1991). Of course, by denying the existence of an ambiguity, we do not claim to be perfectly certain that we have
divined Congress' intentions as to this particular situation.
It is possible that the phrases on which our reading of the
statute turns--"[w]hat constitutes a conviction" and "shall
not be considered a conviction"-were accidents of statutory
drafting; it is possible that some legislators thought the two
sentences of § 921(a)(20) should be read separately, or, more
likely, that they never considered the matter at all. And we
recognize that in enacting the choice-of-law clause, legislators may have been simply responding to our decision in
Dickerson v. New Banner Institute, Inc., 460 U. S. 103
(1983), which held that federal law rather than state law
controls the definition of what constitutes a conviction, not
setting forth a choice-of-law principle for the restoration of
civil rights following a conviction.
But our task is not the hopeless one of ascertaining what
the legislators who passed the law would have decided had
they reconvened to consider petitioners' particular cases.
Rather, it is to determine whether the language the legislators actually enacted has a plain, unambiguous meaning. In
this instance, we believe it does.
III
We therefore conclude that petitioners can take advantage
of § 921(a)(20) only if they have had their civil rights restored
under federal law, and accordingly affirm the judgment of
the Court of Appeals.
So ordered.

