OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Syllabus

POWELL v. NEVADA
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEVADA

No. 92-8841.

Argued February 22, 1994-Decided March 30, 1994

Petitioner Powell was arrested on November 3, 1989, for felony child
abuse. Not until November 7, however, did a Magistrate find probable
cause to hold him for a preliminary hearing. The child in question subsequently died of her injuries, and Powell was charged additionally with
her murder. At the trial, the state prosecutor presented prejudicial
statements Powell had made to the police on November 7. The jury
found him guilty and sentenced him to death. On appeal, the Nevada
Supreme Court, sua sponte, raised the question whether the 4-day delay
in judicial confirmation of probable cause violated the Fourth Amendment, in view of County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44, which
held that a judicial probable-cause determination must generally be
made within 48 hours of a warrantless arrest, and that, absent extraordinary circumstances, a longer delay is unconstitutional. The state court
decided that McLaughlin was inapplicable to Powell's case, because his
prosecution commenced prior to the rendition of that decision.
Held: The Nevada Supreme Court erred in failing to recognize that
McLaughlin's 48-hour rule must be applied retroactively, for under
Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U. S. 314, 328, "a... rule for the conduct of
criminal prosecutions is to be applied retroactively to all cases, state or
federal, . . . not yet final" when the rule is announced. Although the
4-day delay here was presumptively unreasonable under McLaughlin,
it does not necessarily follow that Powell must be set free or gain other
relief. Several questions remain open for decision on remand, including
the appropriate remedy for a delay in determining probable cause (an
issue not resolved by McLaughlin), the consequence of Powell's failure
to raise the federal question, and whether introduction at trial of what
Powell said on November 7 was "harmless" in view of a similar, albeit
shorter, statement he made prior to his arrest. Pp. 83-85.
108 Nev. 700, 838 P. 2d 921, vacated and remanded.
GINSBURG, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BLACKMUN,
STEVENS, O'CONNOR, SCALIA, KENNEDY, and SOUTER, JJ., joined.
THOMAS, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which REHNQUIST, C. J., joined,
post, p. 85.

Michael Pescetta argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.

POWELL v. NEVADA
Opinion of the Court

Dan M. Seaton argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
Miguel A. Estradaargued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney'General
Harris,and Deputy Solicitor General Bryson.*
JUSTICE GINSBURG delivered the opinibn of the Court.

In Gerstein v. Pugh,420 U. S. 103 (1975), we held that the
Fourth Amendment's shield against unreasonable seizures
requires a prompt judicial determination of probable cause
following an arrest made without a warrant and ensuing detention. County.of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44
(1991), established that "prompt" generally means within 48
hours of the warrantless arrest absent extraordinary circumstances, a longer delay violates the Fourth Amendment.
In the case now before us, the Supreme, Court of Nevada
stated that McLaughlin does not apply to a prosecution commenced prior to the rendition of that decision. We hold that
the Nevada Supreme Court misread this Court's precedent:
"[A] ... rule for the conduct of criminal prosecutions is to be
applied retroactively to all cases, state or federal,... not yet
final" when the rule is announced. Griffith v. Kentucky, 479
U. S. 314, 328 (1987).
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Utah et al. by Jan Graham, Attorney General of Utah, Carol Clawson,
Solicitor General, and J Kevin Murphy, Assistant Attorney General,
Grant Woods, Attorney General of Arizona, John M. Bailey, Chief State's

Attorney of Connecticut, Robert A Marks, Attorney General of Hawaii,
Larry EchoHawk, Attorney General of Idaho, Robert T Stephan, Attorney
General of Kansas, Chris Gorman,Attorney General of Kentucky, Richard

P. Ieyoub, Attorney General of Louisiana, Scott Harshbarger,Attorney
General of Massachusetts, Joseph P Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Fred DeVesa, Attorney General of New Jersey, Susan B. Loving,
Attorney General of Oklahoma, Lee Fisher,Attorney General of Ohio, and

T Travis Medlock, Attorney General of South Carolina; and for the Criminal Justice Legal Foundation by Kent S. Scheidegger.

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

I
Petitioner Kitrich Powell was arrested on Friday, November 3, 1989, for felony child abuse of his girlfriend's 4-yearold daughter, in violation of Nev. Rev. Stat. § 200.508 (1991).
That afternoon, the' arresting officer prepared a sworn declaration describing the cause for and circumstances of the arrest. Not until November 7, 1989, however, did a Magistrate find probable cause to hold Powell for a preliminary
hearing. That same day, November 7, Powell made statements to the police, prejudicial to him, which the prosecutor
later presented at Powell's trial. Powell was not personally
brought before a Magistrate until November 13, 1989. By
that time, the child had died of her injuries, and Powell was
charged additionally with her murder.
A jury found Powell guilty of first-degree murder and, following a penalty hearing, sentenced him to death. On appeal to the Nevada Supreme Court, Powell argued that the
State had violated Nevada's "initial appearance" statute by
failing to bring him before a magistrate within 72 hours, and
that his conviction should therefore be reversed.
The Nevada statute governing appearances before a magistrate provides:
"If an arrested person is not brought before a magistrate within 72 hours after arrest, excluding nonjudicial
days, the magistrate:
"(a) Shall give the prosecuting attorney an opportunity to explain the circumstances leading to the delay;
and
"(b) May release the arrested person if he determines
that the person was not brought before a magistrate without unnecessary delay." Nev. Rev. Stat. § 171.178(3)
(1991).
Powell emphasized that 10 days had elapsed between his arrest on November 3, 1989, and his November 13 initial appearance before a Magistrate. In view of the incriminating

POWELL v. NEVADA
Opinion of the Court

statements he made on November 7, Powell contended, the
unlawful delay was prejudicial to him. Under Nevada law,
Powell asserted, vindication of his right to a speedy first
appearance required that his conviction be reversed, and
that he be set free. Appellant's Opening Brief in No. 22348
(Nev.), p. 85.
The district attorney maintained before the Nevada Supreme Court that there had been no fatal violation of Nevada's initial appearance statute. First, the district attorney
urged, the confirmation of probable cause by a Magistrate on
November 7 occurred within 72 hours of the November 3
arrest (excluding the intervening weekend). This probablecause finding, the district attorney contended, satisfied the
72-hour prescription of Nev. Rev. Stat. § 171.178. In any
event, the district attorney continued, under Nevada law, an
accused waives his right to a speedy arraignment when he
voluntarily waives his right to remain silent and his right to
counsel. Powell did so, the district attorney said, when he
made his November 7 statements, after he was read his Miranda rights and waived those rights. See Respondent's
Answering Brief in No. 22348 (Nev.), pp. 56-60. In reply,
Powell vigorously contested the district attorney's portrayal
of the probable-cause determination as tantamount to an initial appearance sufficient to satisfy Nev. Rev. Stat. § 171.178's
72-hour prescription. Powell pointed out that he "was
neither present [n]or advised of the magistrate's finding."
Appellant's Reply Brief in No. 22348 (Nev.), p. 1.
The Nevada Supreme Court concluded, in accord with the
district attorney's assertion, 'that Powell had waived his
right under state law to a speedy arraignment. 108 Nev.
700, 705, 838 P. 2d 921, 924-925 (1992). If the Nevada Supreme Court had confined the decision to that point, its opinion would have resolved no federal issue. But the Nevada
Supreme Court said more. Perhaps in response to the district attorney's contention that the Magistrate's November 7
probable-cause notation satisfied Nev. Rev. Stat. § 171.178 (a

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

contention the State now disavows), the Nevada Supreme
Court, sua sponte, raised a federal concern. That court detoured from its state-law analysis to inquire whether the November 3 to November 7, 1989, delay in judicial confirmation
of probable cause violated the Fourth Amendment under this
Court's precedents.
County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44 (1991),
the Nevada Supreme Court recognized, made specific the
probable-cause promptness requirement of Gerstein v. Pugh,
420 U. S. 103 (1975); McLaughlin instructed that a delay exceeding 48 hours presumptively violates the Fourth Amendment. Merging the speedy initial appearance required by
Nevada statute and the prompt probable-cause determination required by the Fourth Amendment, the Nevada Supreme Court declared: "The McLaughlin case renders [Nev.
Rev. Stat. § ]171.178(3) unconstitutional insofar [as] it permits
an initial appearance up to seventy-two hours after arrest
and instructs that non-judicial days be excluded from the calculation of those hours." 108 Nev., at 705, 838 P. 2d, at 924.
While instructing that, henceforth, probable-cause determinations be made within 48 hours of a suspect's arrest, the
Nevada Supreme Court held McLaughlin inapplicable "to
the case at hand," because that recent precedent postdated
Powell's arrest. 108 Nev., at 705, n. 1, 838 P. 2d, at 924, n. 1.
McLaughlin announced a new rule, the Nevada Supreme
Court observed, and therefore need not be applied retroactively. 108 Nev., at 705, n. 1, 838 P. 2d, at 924, n. 1.
Powell petitioned for our review raising the question
whether a state court may decline to apply a recently rendered Fourth Amendment decision of this Court to a case
pending on direct appeal. We granted certiorari, 510 U. S.
811 (1993), and now reject the state court's prospectivity
declaration.
II

Powell's arrest was not validated by a magistrate until
four days elapsed. That delay was presumptively unreason-

POWELL v. NEVADA

Opinion of the Court

able under McLaughlin's 48-hour rule. The State so concedes. Appellee's Answer to Petition for Rehearing in No.
22348 (Nev.), p. 7; Tr. of Oral Arg. 28. The State further
concedes that the Nevada Supreme Court's retroactivity
analysis was incorrect. See ibid. We held in Griffith v.
Kentucky, 479 U. S., at 328, that "a new rule for the conduct
of criminal prosecutions is to be applied retroactively to all
cases, state or federal, pending on direct review or not yet
final." Griffith stressed two points. First, "the nature of
judicial review . . . precludes us from '[s]imply fishing one
case from the stream of appellate review, using it as a vehicle
for pronouncing new constitutional standards, and then permitting a stream of similar cases subsequently to flow by
unaffected by that new rule."' Id., at 323 (quoting Mackey
v. United States, 401 U. S. 667, 679 (1971) (Harlan, J., concurring in judgment)). Second, "selective application of
new rules violates the principle of treating similarly situated
defendants the same." Griffith, supra, at 323. Assuming,
arguendo, that the 48-hour presumption announced in McLaughlin qualifies as a "new rule," cf. Teague v. Lane, 489
U. S. 288, 299-310 (1989), Griffith nonetheless entitles Powell
to rely on McLaughlin for this simple reason: Powell's conviction was not final when McLaughlin was announced.
It does not necessarily follow, however, that Powell must
"be set free," 108 Nev., at 705, n. 1, 838 P. 2d, at 924, n. 1, or
gain other relief, for several questions remain open for decision on remand. In particular, the Nevada Supreme Court
has not yet closely considered the appropriate remedy for a
delay in determining probable cause (an issue not resolved
by McLaughlin), or the consequences of Powell's failure to
raise the federal question, or the district attorney's argument that introduction at trial of what Powell said on November 7, 1989, was "harmless" in view of a similar, albeit
shorter, statement Powell made on November 3, prior to his
arrest. See Brief for Respondent 22. Expressing no opin-

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

ion on these issues,* we hold only that the Nevada Supreme
Court erred in failing to recognize that Griffith v. Kentucky
calls for retroactive application of McLaughlin's 48-hour
rule.
*

*

*

For the reasons stated, the judgment of the Nevada
Supreme Court is vacated, and the case is remanded for
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE THOMAS, with whom THE CHIEF JUSTICE joins,
dissenting.
After concluding that the Nevada Supreme Court erred by
failing to follow our decision in Griffith v. Kentucky, 479 U. S.
*JUsTICE THOMAS

would reach out and decide the first of these ques-

tions, though it is not presented in the petition for-review. ' He would rule
inappropriate "suppression of [Powell's November 7] statement ... because the statement was not a product of the McLaughlin violation."
Post, at 89. It is "settled law," he maintains, post, at 88, that if probable
cause in fact existed for Powell's detention, then McLaughlin's 48-hour
rule, though violated, triggers no suppression remedy. Quite the opposite, JUSTICE THOMAS recognizes, is "settled law" regarding search warrants: A court's postsearch validation of probable cause will not render
the evidence admissible. See Vale v. Louisiana,399 U. S. 30, 35, 34 (1970)
(absent circumstances justifying a warrantless search, it is "constitutional
error [to] admi[t] into evidence the fruits of the illegal search," "even
though the authorities ha[d] probable cause to conduct it").
JUSTICE THOMAS maintains, however, that our precedents, especially
New York v. Harris,495 U..S. 14 (1990), already establish that no suppression is required in Powell's case. In Harris,we held that violation of the
Fourth Amendment's rule against warrantless arrests in a dwelling, see
Payton v. New York, 445 U. S. 573 (1980), generally does not lead to the
suppression of a postarrest confession. But Powell does not complain of
police failure to obtain a required arrest warrant. He targets a different
constitutional violation-failure to obtain authorization from a magistrate
for a significant period of pretrial detention. Whether a suppression remedy applies in that setting remains an unresolved question. Because the
issue was not raised, argued, or decided below, we should not settle it here.

POWELL v. NEVADA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

314 (1987), the Court remands this case without deciding
whether the ultimate judgment below, despite the error, was
correct. In -my view, the lower court's judgment upholding
petitioner's conviction was correct under settled legal principles, and therefore should be affirmed.
I
The petition for certiorari in this case presented a single
question for review-namely, whether a particular decision
of this Court concerning criminal procedure should apply
retroactively to all cases pending on direct review. This
question was well settled at the time the petition was filed,
and had been since our decision in Griffith, in which we
stated that "a new rule for the conduct of criminal prosecutions is to be applied retroactively to all cases, state or federal, pending on direct review or not yet final." 479 U. S.,
at 328. The Nevada Supreme Court made a statement to
the contrary in a footnote in its opinion. See infra, at 87.
Notwithstanding this obvious mistake, Griffith's rule of retroactivity had generated little or no confusion among the
lower courts. In my view, under these circumstances, the
writ was improvidently granted.
According to this Court's Rule 10.1, "[a] petition for a writ
of certiorari will be granted only when there are special and
important reasons therefor." Not only were there no special or important reasons favoring review in this case, but,
as Justice Stewart once wrote: "The only remarkable thing
about this case is its presence in this Court. For the case
involves no more than the application of well-settled principles to a familiar situation, and has little significance except
for the [parties]." Butz v. Glover Livestock Commission
Co., 411 U. S. 182, 189 (1973) (dissenting opinion). As the
Court has observed in the past, "it is very important that
we be consistent in not granting the writ of certiorari except
in cases involving principles the settlement of which is of
importance to the public as distinguished from that of the

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

parties, and in cases where there is a real and embarrassing
conflict of opinion and authority between the circuit courts
of appeal." Layne & Bowler Corp. v. Western Well Works,
Inc., 261 U. S. 387, 393 (1923). We make poor use of judicial
resources when, as here, we take a case merely to reaffirm
(without revisiting) settled law. See generally Estelle v.
Gamble, 429 U. S. 97, 115 (1976) (STEVENS, J., dissenting);
United States v. Shannon, 342 U. S. 288, 294-295 (1952)
(opinion of Frankfurter, J.).
Now that we have invested time and resources in full
briefing and oral argument, however, we must decide how
properly to dispose of the case. The Court vacates and remands because the Nevada Supreme Court erred, not in its
judgment, but rather in its "prospectivity declaration."
Ante, at 83. The "declaration" to which the Court refers is
the state court's statement that our decision in County of
Rivberside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S.44 (1991), does "not apply
retroactively." 108 Nev. 700, 705, n. 1, 838 P. 2d 921, 924,
n. 1 (1992). The Court correctly rules that McLaughlin
does apply retroactively. See Griffith, supra. Rather than
remanding, I believe that the Court in this instance can and
should definitively resolve the case before us: "Our job.., is
to review judgments, not to edit opinions .

. . ."

Phillips

Petroleum Co. v. Shutts, 472 U. S.797, 823 (1985) (STEVENS,
J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). See also
K mart Corp. v. Cartier,Inc., 485 U. S.176, 185 (1988); Black
v. Cutter Laboratories,351 U. S.292, 297 (1956).
Of course, when there is a need for further factfinding or
for proceedings best conducted in the lower courts, or where
the ultimate question to be decided depends on debatable
points of law that have not been briefed or argued, we regularly determine that the best course is to remand. See, e. g.,
Pierce v. Underwood, 487 U. S. 552, 574 (1988) (vacating
award of attorney's fees and remanding for recalculation of
fee award). Those concerns, however, do not require a remand in this case. In defense of the judgment below, re-

POWELL v. NEVADA
THOMAS, J., dissenting

spondent and its amici have properly raised a number of
arguments, see Blum v. Bacon, 457 U. S. 132, 137, n. 5 (1982),
which have been fully briefed. As I explain below, at least
one of those arguments provides a ground for. decision that
would require only the application of settled law to the undisputed facts in the record before us. Under these circumstances, remanding will merely require the needless expenditure of further judicial resources on a claim that lacks merit.
II
While in petitioner's care on November 2, 1989, 4-year-old
Melea Allen suffered massive head and spinal injuries.
When petitioner took her to 'the hospital the following day,
November 3, she was comatose and suffering respiratory failure. Petitioner told doctors and nurses that she had fallen
from his shoulders during play. When emergency room personnel discovered that Melea also had numerous bruises and
lacerations on her body-injuries that suggested she had
been abused repeatedly-they called the police. Petitioner
spoke to the officers who responded to the 'call and again
explained that the child's injuries were the result of an accidental fall.
Several hours later, the police arrested petitioner for child
abuse. Within an hour of the arrest, officers prepared a declaration of arrest that recited the above facts to establish
probable cause. Petitioner was still in custody on November 7, when, after receiving Mirandawarnings, he agreed to
give a second statement to the police. He repeated the
same version of events he had given at the hospital before
his arrest, but in slightly more detail.' On that same day, a
Magistrate, relying on the facts recited in the declaration of
arrest described above, determined that petitioner's arrest
had been supported by probable cause. The next day Melea
died, and petitioner was charged with first-degree murder.
Petitioner contends that respondent's delay in securing a
prompt judicial determination of probable cause to arrest

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

him for child abuse violated the rule that a probable-cause
determination must, absent extenuating circumstances, be
made by a judicial officer within 48 hours of a warrantless
arrest. McLaughlin, supra. The McLaughlin error, petitioner argues, required suppression of the custodial statement he made on November 7, which was introduced against
him at trial.
Against that argument, respondent and its amici raise
several contentions: first, that suppression of evidence would
never be an appropriate remedy for a McLaughlin violation;
second, that the statement at issue here was not a product
of the McLaughlin error, or at least that the connection between the McLaughlin violation and the statement is so attenuated that suppression is not required; third, that suppression is inappropriate under Illinois v. Krull, 480 U. S.
340 (1987), because the officers acted in good-faith reliance
on a state statute that authorized delays of up to 72 hours
(excluding weekends and holidays) in presenting a defendant
to a magistrate; and finally, that even if the statement should
have been suppressed, admitting it at trial was harmless
error. Even assuming, arguendo, that suppression is a
proper remedy for McLaughlin errors, see ante, at 85, n.,
I believe that, on the facts of this case, suppression of petitioner's statement would not be appropriate because the
statement was not a product of the McLaughlin violation.
Our decisions make clear "that evidence will not be excluded as 'fruit' [of an unlawful act] unless the illegality is at
least the 'but for' cause of the discovery of the evidence."
Segura v. United States, 468 U. S. 796, 815 (1984). As Segura suggests, "but for" causation is a necessary, but not
sufficient, condition for suppression: "[W]e have declined to
adopt a per se or but for rule that would make inadmissible
any evidence .

.

. which somehow came to light through a

chain of causation that began with a [violation of the Fourth
or Fifth Amendment]." New York v. Harris,495 U. S. 14, 17

POWELL v. NEVADA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

(1990) (internal quotation marks omitted). See also United
States v. Ceccolini, 435 U. S. 268, 276 (1978).
Contrary to petitioner's arguments, the violation of
McLaughlin (as opposed to his arrest and custody) bore no
causal relationship whatsoever to his November 7 statement.
The timing of the probable-cause determination would have
affected petitioner's statement only if a proper hearing at or
before the 48-hour mark would have resulted in a finding of
no probable cause. Yet, as the Magistrate found, the police
had probable cause to suspect petitioner of child abuse, cf.
Illinois v. Gates, 462 U. S. 213 (1983), and there is no suggestion that the delay in securing a determination of probable
cause permitted the police to gather additional evidence to
be presented to the Magistrate. On the contrary, the Magistrate based his determination on the facts included in the
declaration of arrest that was completed within an hour of
petitioner's arrest. Thus, if the probable-cause determination had been made within 48 hours as required by McLaughlin, the same information would have been presented,
the same result would have obtained, and none of the circumstances of petitioner's custody would have been altered.
Moreover, it cannot be argued that the McLaughlin error
somehow made petitioner's custody unlawful and thereby
rendered the statement the product of unlawful custody. Because the arresting officers had probable cause to arrest petitioner, he was lawfully arrested at the hospital. Cf. Harris,
supra, at 18.1 The presumptively unconstitutional delay in
IThe fact that the arrest was supported by probable cause and was not
investigatory in nature fully distinguishes this case from our decisions in
Thylor v. Alabama, 457 U. S. 687 (1982), Brown v. Illinois, 422 U. S. 590
(1975), and Dunaway v. New York, 442 U. S. 200 (1979). Where probable
cause for an arrest is lacking, as it was in each of those cases, evidence
obtained as a result of the Fourth Amendment violation "bear[s] a sufficiently close relationship to the underlying illegality [to require suppression]." New York v. Harris, 495 U.S. 14, 19 (1990). The presence of
probable cause, by contrast, validates the arrest and attendant custody,
despite "'technical' violations of Fourth Amendment rights" that may

Cite as: 511 U. S. 79 (1994)
THOMAS, J., dissenting

securing a judicial determination of probable cause during a
period of lawful custody did not render that custody illegal.
We have never suggested that lawful custody becomes unlawful due to a failure to obtain a prompt judicial finding of
probable cause-that is, probable cause does not disappear
if not judicially determined within 48 hours. Cf. United
States v. Montalvo-Murillo, 495 U. S. 711, 722 (1990) ("[A]
person does not become immune from detention because of
a timing violation").
In short, the statement does not even meet the threshold
requirement of being a "product" of the McLaughlin violation. 2 - Petitioner's statement, "while the product of an arhave occurred during either. Brown, supra,at 611 (Powell, J., concurring
in part). See also Harris, supra, at 18 (holding that even though the
police violated the rule of Payton v. New York, 445 U. S. 573 (1980), by
arresting a suspect in his house without a warrant, the resulting custody
was lawful because the arrest was supported by probable cause, and that
therefore the suspect's subsequent custodial statement was admissible).
As the Court notes, ante, at 85, n., a different rule applies to search
warrants. In that context, we have insisted that, absent exigent circumstances, police officers obtain a search warrant, even if they had probable
cause to conduct the search, see, e. g., Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403
U. S. 443, 454-455 (1971), and we have required suppression of all fruits
of an unlawful search, unless an exception to the exclusionary rule applies.
See generally Illinois v. Krull, 480 U. S. 340, 347-349 (1987). The same
rule has not been applied to arrests. ."[W]hile the Court has expressed a
preference for the use of arrest warrants when feasible, it has never invalidated an arrest supported by probable cause solely because the officers
failed to secure a warrant." Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103, 113 (1975)
(citations omitted). Nor has the Court required suppression of voluntary
custodial statements made after an arrest supported by probable cause
based solely on the officers' failure to obtain a warrant. See Harris,
supra. Petitioner's statement was the product of his arrest and custody,
and there is no reason to think that the rules we have developed in the
search
warrant context should apply in this case.
2
Thus, conventional attenuation principles are inapplicable in this case,
for as we pointed out in Harris,"attenuation analysis is only appropriate
where, as a threshold matter, courts determine that 'the challenged evidence is in some sense the product of illegal governmental activity.'" 495
U. S., at 19 (quoting United States v. Crews, 445 U. S. 463, 471 (1980)).

92

POWELL v. NEVADA
THOMAS,

J., dissenting

rest and being in custody, was not the fruit of the fact" that
a judicial determination of probable cause was not made
within the 48-hour period mandated by McLaughlin. Harris, supra, at 20. Under these circumstances, suppression
is not warranted under our precedents.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment below should be
affirmed.
I respectfully dissent.

