AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
29, 1994, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง2075, and were reported to Congress by
THE CHIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1170. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2075, such amendments do not take effect
until so reported to Congress and until the expiration of 90 days
thereafter.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
and amendments thereto, see, e. g., 461 U. S. 973, 471 U. S. 1147, 480 U. S.
1077, 490 U. S. 1119, 500 U. S. 1017, and 507 U. S. 1075.

1169

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

29, 1994

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States,
I have the honor to submit to the Congress amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court pursuant to Section 2075 of
Title 28, United States Code. While the Court is satisfied
that the required procedures have been observed, this
transmittal does not necessarily indicate that the Court
itself would have proposed these amendments in the form
submitted.
Accompanying these rules are excerpts from the report of
the Judicial Conference of the United States containing the
Advisory Committee Notes submitted to the Court for its
consideration pursuant to Section 331 of Title 28, United
States Code.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

1170

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 29, 1994
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure be,
and they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 8002 and 8006.
[See infra, pp. 1173-1174.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure shall take effect on August 1, 1994,
and shall govern all proceedings in bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in bankruptcy cases then pending.
3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and he hereby is, authorized to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments
to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2075 of Title 28, United
States Code.

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 8002. Time forfiling notice of appeal.
(b) Effect of motion on time for appeal.-If any party
makes a timely motion of a type specified immediately below,
the time for appeal for all parties runs from the entry of the
order disposing of the last such motion outstanding. This
provision applies to a timely motion:
(1) to amend or make additional findings of fact under
Rule 7052, whether or not granting the motion would
alter the judgment;
(2) to alter or amend the judgment under Rule 9023;
(3) for a new trial under Rule 9023; or
(4) for relief under Rule 9024 if the motion is filed no
later than 10 days after the entry of judgment. A notice of appeal filed after announcement or entry of the
judgment, order, or decree but before disposition of any
of the above motions is ineffective to appeal from the
judgment, order, or decree, or part thereof, specified in
the notice of appeal, until the entry of the order disposing of the last such motion outstanding. Appellate review of an order disposing of any of the above motions
requires the party, in compliance with Rule 8001, to
amend a previously filed notice of appeal. A party intending to challenge an alteration or amendment of the
judgment, order, or decree shall file a notice, or an
amended notice, of appeal within the time prescribed by
this Rule 8002 measured from the entry of the order
disposing of the last such motion outstanding. No additional fees will be required for filing an amended notice.
1173

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 8006. Record and issues on appeal.
Within 10 days after filing the notice of appeal as provided
by Rule 8001(a), entry of an order granting leave to appeal,
or entry of an order disposing of the last timely motion outstanding of a type specified in Rule 8002(b), whichever is
later, the appellant shall file with the clerk and serve on the
appellee a designation of the items to be included in the record on appeal and a statement of the issues to be presented.
Within 10 days after the service of the appellant's statement
the appellee may file and serve on the appellant a designation of additional items to be included in the record on appeal
and, if the appellee has filed a cross appeal, the appellee as
cross appellant shall file and serve a statement of the issues
to be presented on the cross appeal and a designation of additional items to be included in the record. A cross appellee
may, within 10 days of service of the cross appellant's statement, file and serve on the cross appellant a designation of
additional items to be included in the record. The record on
appeal shall include the items so designated by the parties,
the notice of appeal, the judgment, order, or decree appealed
from, and any opinion, findings of fact, and conclusions of law
of the court. Any party filing a designation of the items to
be included in the record shall provide to the clerk a copy of
the items designated or, if the party fails to provide the copy,
the clerk shall prepare the copy at the party's expense. If
the record designated by any party includes a transcript of
any proceeding or a part thereof, the party shall, immediately after filing the designation, deliver to the reporter and
file with the clerk a written request for the transcript and
make satisfactory arrangements for payment of its cost. All
parties shall take any other action necessary to enable the
clerk to assemble and transmit the record.

