OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Opinion of the Court

BOCA GRANDE CLUB, INC. v. FLORIDA POWER &
LIGHT CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-180.

Argued January 11, 1994-Decided April 20, 1994

Held: The judgment is vacated and the case remanded for further proceedings consistent with McDermott, Inc. v. AmClyde, ante, p. 202,
which adopts the proportionate share rule, under which actions for contribution against settling defendants are neither necessary nor permitted. Pp. 222-223.
990 F. 2d 606, vacated and remanded.
STEVENS,

J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

David F. Pope argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs was Jack C. Rinard.
Ronald J. Mann argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae urging affirmance. With him on the brief
were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General
Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, and Richard
A. Olderman.
Stuart C. Markman argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the briefs were James E. Felman, C. Steven
Yerrid, and ChristopherS. Knopik.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
We granted certiorari, 509 U. S. 953 (1993), to consider the
question whether, in an action against several alleged joint
JUSTICE STEVENS

*Briefs of amicus curiae urging reversal were filed for the Maritime
Law Association of the United States by Warren B. Daly, Jr., and George
W Healy III; and for the National Association of Securities and Commercial Law Attorneys by William S. Lerach, Leonard B. Simon, and Kevin
P Roddy.
Kathryn A. Oberly, Carl D. Liggio, Jon N. Ekdahl, HarrisJ Amhowitz,
Howard J Krongard, Edwin D. Scott, and Eldon Olson filed a brief for
Arthur Andersen & Co. et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.

Cite as: 511 U. S. 222 (1994)

223

Opinion of the Court

tortfeasors under general maritime law, the plaintiff's settlement with one defendant bars a claim for contribution
brought by nonsettling defendants against the settling defendant. Because the opinion that we announce today in
McDermott, Inc. v. AmClyde, ante, p. 202, adopts the proportionate share rule, under which actions for contribution
against settling defendants are neither necessary nor permitted, we vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and
remand the case for further proceedings consistent with
that opinion.
It is so ordered.

