OCTOBER TERM, 1993
Per Curiam

IN RE ANDERSON
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 93-8312.

Decided May 2, 1994

During the last three years alone, pro se petitioner Anderson has filed 22
separate petitions and motions, most for extraordinary writs. This
Court denied all of them without recorded dissent. He was also denied
leave to proceed in forma pauperis, pursuant to this Court's Rule 39.8,
on the last three occasions that he has submitted petitions for extraordinary relief
Held Anderson is denied leave to proceed in forma pauperis in the instant case, and the Clerk is instructed not to accept any further petitions
for extraordinary writs from him unless he pays the required docketing
fee and submits his petitions in compliance with Rule 33. For the reasons discussed in In re Demos, 500 U. S. 16, In re Sindram, 498 U. S.
177, and In re McDonald, 489 U. S. 180, the Court feels compelled to
enter this order, which will allow it to devote its limited resources to
the claims of petitioners who have not abused the Court's process.
Motion denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Grant Anderson seeks an extraordinary
writ pursuant to 28 U. S. C. §2241 and requests permission
to proceed in forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39.
Pursuant to Rule 39.8, we deny petitioner leave to proceed in
forma pauperis.* Petitioner is allowed until May 23, 1994,
within which to pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38
and to submit his petition in compliance with this Court's
Rule 33. For the reasons explained below, we also direct
the Clerk of the Court not to accept any further petitions
for extraordinary writs from petitioner unless he pays the
docketing fee required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions
in compliance with Rule 33.
*This Court's Rule 39.8 provides: "If satisfied that a petition for a writ
of certiorari, jurisdictional statement, or petition for an extraordinary
writ, as the case may be, is frivolous or malicious, the Court may deny a
motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis."

Cite as: 511 U. S. 364 (1994)
Per Curiam

Petitioner is a prolific filer in this Court. In the last three
years alone, he hasified 22 separate petitions and motions,
including 3 petitions for certiorari, 6 motions for reconsideration, and 13 petitions for extraordinary writs. Thirteen of
these petitions and motions have been filed this Term. We
have denied all of the petitions and motions without recorded
dissent. We. have also, denied petitioner leave to proceed
in forma pauperis,pursuant to Rule 39.8, on the last three
occasions that he has submitted petitions for extraordinary
relief.
Like the majority of his previous submissions to this
Court, the instant'petition for habeas corpus relates to the
denial ofpetitioner's various postconviction motions by the
District of Columbia Court of Appeals. The current petition
merely repeats arguments that we have considered previously and not found worthy of plenary review. Like the
three petitions in which we denied petitioner leave to proceed in forma pauperis,'moreover, the instant petition is
patently frivolous.
The bulk of petitioner's submissions have been petitions
for extraordinary writs, and *we limit our sanction accordingly. We have imposed similar sanctions in three prior
cases. See In re Demo*s, 500 U. S. 16 (1991); In re Sindram,
498 U. S. 177 (1991); In re McDonald, 489 U. S. 180 (1989).
For' the reasons discussed in these cases, we feel compelled
to bar petitioner from filing any further requests for extraordinary relief. As we concluded.in Sindram:
"The goal of fairly dispensing justice.., is compromised
when the Court is forced to devote its limited resources
to the processing of repetitious and frivolous requests.
Pro se petitioners have a greater capacity than most to
disrupt the fair allocation of judicial resources because
they are not subject to the financial considerations-filing fees and attorney's fees-that deter other litigants
from filing frivolous petitions. The risks of abuse are
particularly acute with respect to applications for ex-

IN RE ANDERSON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

traordinary relief, since such petitions are not subject to
any time limitations and, theoretically, could be filed at
any time without limitation. In order to prevent frivolous petitions for extraordinary relief from unsettling
the fair administration of justice, the Court has a duty
to deny in forma pauperis status to those individuals
who have abused the system." 498 U. S., at 179-180
(citation omitted).
So long as petitioner qualifies under this Court's Rule 39
and does not similarly abuse the privilege, he remains free
to file in forma pauperis requests for relief other than an
extraordinary writ. See id., at 180. In the meantime, however, today's order "will allow this Court to devote its limited
resources to the claims of petitioners who have not abused
our process." In re Sassower, 510 U. S.4, 6 (1993).
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE STEVENS, with whom JUSTICE BLACKMUN joins,
dissenting.
During my years of service on the Court, I have not detected any threat to the integrity of its processes, or its ability to administer justice fairly, caused by frivolous petitions,
whether filed by paupers or by affluent litigants. Three'
years ago I expressed the opinion that the cost of administering sanctions such as that imposed on this petitioner
would exceed any perceptible administrative benefit. In re
Amendment to Rule 39, 500 U. S.13, 15 (1991). Any minimal savings in time or photocopying costs, it seemed to me,
did not justify the damage that occasional orders denying in
forma pauperis status would cause to "the symbolic interest
in preserving equal access to the Court for both the rich
and the poor." Ibid. Three years' experience under this
Court's Rule 39.8 leaves me convinced that the dissenters in
the cases the Court cites had it right. See In re Demos, 500
U. S.16, 17-19 (1991); In re Sindram, 498 U. S.177, 180-183

Cite as: 511 U. S. 350 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

In this case, respondent was under arrest on state narcotics charges at the time he made his inculpatory statement to
the Secret Service agents. The terms of § 3501(c) thus did
not come into play until respondent was arrested by the
agents on a federal charge-after he made the statement.
Because respondent's statement was made voluntarily, as
the District Court found, see App. to Pet. for Cert. 45a, nothing in §3501 authorized its suppression. See 18 U. S. C.
§§ 3501(a), (d). The State's failure to arraign or prosecute
respondent does not alter this conclusion. Although Congress could have provided that the exercise of prosecutorial
discretion by the State in this scenario retroactively transforms time spent in the custody of state or local officers into
time spent under "arrest or other detention" for purposes of
§ 3501(c), it did not do so in the statute as written. Cf. Germain, 503 U. S., at 253-254.
Although we think proper application of §3501(c) will be
as straightforward in most cases as it is here, the parties
identify one presumably rare scenario that might present
some potential for confusion; namely, the situation that
would arise if state or local authorities, acting in collusion
with federal officers, were to arrest and detain someone in
order to allow the federal agents to interrogate him in violation of his right to a prompt federal presentment. Long before the enactment of § 3501, we held that a confession obtained during such a period of detention must be suppressed
if the defendant could demonstrate the existence of improper
collaboration between federal and state or local officers.
See Anderson v. United States, 318 U. S. 350 (1943). 4 In this
' In Anderson, a local sheriff, acting without authority under state law,
arrested several men suspected of dynamiting federally owned power lines
during the course of a labor dispute and allowed them to be interrogated
for several days by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Only
after the suspects made confessions were they arrested by the federal
agents and arraigned before a United States Commissioner. We held the
confessions to be inadmissible as the "improperly" secured product of an
impermissible "working arrangement" between state and federal officers.
318 U. S., at 356.

UNITED STATES v. ALVAREZ-SANCHEZ
Opinion of the Court

case, however, we need not address §3501's effect, if any, on
the rule announced in Anderson. The District Court concluded that there was "no evidence" that a "collusive arrangement between state and federal agents. .. caused [re-

spondent's] confession to be made," App. to Pet. for Cert.
50a, and we see no reason to disturb that factual finding. It
is true that the Sheriff's Department informed the Secret
Service agents that counterfeit currency had been found in
respondent's possession, but such routine cooperation between local and federal authorities is, by itself, wholly unobjectionable: "Only by such an interchange of information can
society be adequately protected against crime." United
States v. Coppola, 281 F. 2d 340, 344 (CA2 1960) (en banc),
aff'd, 365 U. S. 762 (1961). Cf. Bartkus v. Illinois, 359 U. S.
121, 123 (1959). 5
III
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
So ordered.
Respondent urges that the judgment below should be affirmed on an
alternative ground. Although he was initially arrested on state charges
on a Friday afternoon and held in local custody until Monday afternoon,
respondent was not brought before a magistrate during this period. In
County of Riverside v. McLaughlin, 500 U. S. 44, 57 (1991), we held that
the Fourth Amendment generally requires a judicial determination of
probable cause within 48 hours of a warrantless arrest. Relying on McLaughlin and Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U. S. 103 (1975), respondent now asserts that his confession was obtained during an ongoing violation of his
Fourth Amendment right to a prompt determination of probable cause.
Respondent, however, did not raise a Fourth Amendment claim in the
District Court or the Court of Appeals; he argued for suppression based
only on the Fifth Amendment and § 3501. Finding no exceptional circumstances that would warrant reviewing a claim that was waived below, we
adhere to our general practice and decline to address respondent's Fourth
Amendment argument. See Granfinanciera,S. A v. Nordberg, 492 U. S.
33, 38-39 (1989); Heckler v. Campbell, 461 U. S. 458, 468-469, n. 12 (1983).

