DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

23

Lawler v. Ciaflin et al.

On looking into the record, there appears to be no ground
on which this writ of error can be maintained. There is no
complaint that the obligation of a contract has been impaired,
nor that any right has been claimed and refused under any
treaty or act of Congress. The cause must therefore be
dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.

WILL AM B. LAWLER, AP'PELLANT, V. HORACE B. CLAFLIN, WILLIAM H. MELLEN, NATHANIEL F. MILLER, DAviD H. CONKLING, AND HzNRY STONE.
Where proceedings were had in Minnesota for the sale of property mortgaged to
secure a debt, and the judgment of the court below was, that the property
should be sold, there appears to be no error in the judgment, and it must
therefore be affirmed.

THIs was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
The action was commenced in the District Court, second
district, county of Ramsey, by Claflin and the other defendants in error, against Lawler and thirty-two other persons, who
were claimants under Lawler.
The statutes of Minnesota abolished the distinction between
the forms of action at law, and declared that there should be in
the Territory but one form of action at law, to be called a civil
action, for the enforcement and protection of private rights
and the redress of private wrongs, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. The only pleadings allowed on the
part of the plaintiff were: 1, the complaint; 2, the reply or
demurrer; and on the part of the defendant, the demurrer and
answer. All equity and chancery jurisdiction, authorized by
the original act of the Territory, shall be exercised, and all
suits or proceedings to be instituted for that purpose are to be
commenced, prosecuted, and conducted to a final decision and
judgment, by the like process, pleadings, trial, and proceedings, as in civil actions, and shall be called civil actions.
Under this mode of practice, laflin and the other defend.

SUPREIE COURT.
LTwler v. Claflin e alZ

ints in error, who were merchants of the city of New York,
led a complaint against Lawler, as mortgagor, to foreclose a

mortgage given by him to them, upon property in St. Paul.
The complaint claimed that the premises might be sold according to law.
It is not necessary to follow the proceedings under this new
mode of practice. Suffice it to say that Lawler answered, and
the plaintiffs replied. A jury trial was waived in open court by
the attorneys for the plaintiffs and defendants, and the cause
was tried b~fore the judge. The defendants then moved to
dismiss the action for certain reasons, but the motion was overruled. They then offered depositions which were objected to,
but allowed to be read for certain purposes; after which, the
plaintiffs offered some depositioils which were objected to, but
allowed to be read. Other evidence was offered by the plaintiffs, which was objected to, but received; upon which state of
the case, the judge decreed that Lawler executed the note and
mortgage, and was indebted to the plaintiffs in the amount
claimed.
No bill of exception was taken during the progress of the
trial, but the whole case went up to the Supreme Court of the
Territory. That court made the following remarks in the
cour~e of its opinion:
"A jury trial was waived, and the cause wes tried by the
court.
"The court rendered a judgment of foreclosure in favor ol
the plaintiffs, and made the usual*order directing a sale of the
mortgaged premises.
"From the judgment, an appeal has been taken to.this court.
".The paper books furnished to the court contain not only
the judgment roll, including properly the decision of the court
below, but also the evidence in the case. The cause has been
argued as though the evidence was properly before this court;
but this is a mistake.
-" In this case, it is true that the evidence consisted wholly,
or nearly so, of, depositions; but there is no more propriety it
sending up written than oral.testimony, and we have no right
to louk beyond the record in the case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

25

Lawler v. Claflin d*al.

"The record consists of the pleadings, the decision of the
judge, and the judgment. The question, then, is, does the
record show any error of law?
"No error has been assigned, and none appears in the record,
unless it appears in the decision of the court below.
"The decision is something more than a general verdict.
Perhaps any error disclosed by the decision, although such de.
cision may contain more matter than is required by the statute,
may be notio.d. The true course, I apprehend, however, is for
the party to take his exceptions to every ruling, in the same
manner as in a ju-ry trial, unless such ruling will form a legitimate part of the decision, or the error, if any exist, will appear
in the pleadings."
It was stated ia the outset of this report that the case was
brought up to this court -by appeal, and not by writ of error.
It was argued by Mr. Stevens, upon a brief filed by himself,
and Mr. B71sbane, for the appellant, and by Mr. Gillet for the
appellees.
The counsel for the appellant founded his argument upon
the theory that the whole case was before this court, evidence
and all; whilst Mr. Gillet contended that the decision of the
court, where a jury trial was waived, was conclusive as to all
questions of fact; and that the absence of a bill of exceptions
precluded all inquiry into questions of law, where the case
should have been brought up by .writ of error, and not by appeal.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory
of Minnesota.
The suit was brought on a mortgage executed the first day
of October, 1852, by Ann Curran, the duly-authorized attorney in fact of William B. Lawler, conditioned for the payment of the sum of four thousand dollars, being part of lot
three, in block thirty, in the town of St. Paul, forming an
oblong square, forty-two feet on Third street by eighty feet

SUPREME COURT.
LawLer v. 01aflin e aZ.

on Roberts street. This mortgage \vas duly recorded on the
day subsequeiit to that of its execution.
This mortgage, it was alleged, was executed to secure a sum
of money then due to the plaintiffs, 9nd which was likely to
become due, in the further purchase of merchandise from the
plaintiffs bS' the defendant. The plaintiffs accepted the inortgage, as security for purchases to be made, or any debts which
the firm of Ourran & Lawler might subsequently owe the
firm.
The understanding and agreement between the parties was,
that the mortgage was to be held by plaintiffs as a pledge or
collateral security, and, was not to be cancelled or delivered
up until all purchases which Curran & Lawler might make,
and which might become due at any time within the yearthat is, before the first of October, 1853' So long as anything
should remain due on such purchases, the indebtment was to
be considered and de.emed secured by the mortgage.
The payment of the note and mortgage, as alleged by Curran & Lawler in their answer, is denied; and it is stated that
the amount of indebtment on the note and mortgage, at maturity, was upwards of five thousand dollars.
It is difficult to determine the character of the loose papers
certified from the Supreme Court of Minnesota to this court.
They have neither the form nor the substance of n record.
The papers seem to be thrown together, as much by accident
as design; and one can scarcely gather any special object in
reading the transcripts. It would seem that neither certainty
nor order can be extracted from these papers, and that some
form should be adopted by which the pleadings should be
stated, and ihe points controverted, whether of fact or of law.
May objections are made to questions propounded to witnesses, but no exceptions seem to have been taken.
A jury seems to have been waived, and the facts were submitted to- the court. -In such a case, the question of law
arising on the facts would appear to have been decided by the
comt. Still, no exception is taken. In fact, there -seems to
be nothing for this court to try, except the validity of the
mortgage and the fact of its dischai'ge, And, even in this

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

27

Law"er v. Claflin d al.

matter, the evidence is in conflict, and it is difficult to decide
the point disputed.
The mortgage was for four thousand dollars. and was to
stand as a security for the balance due the plaintiffs; and in
this way it was intended to give an additional credit to the
company. Firom the manner in which the mortgage was
treated, it appears to have been designed as a standing
guaranty for the sum named.
And, in the language of, the court, the said "action having
come on to be heard at the May term of the District Court of
Ramsey county, upon the complaint of the plaintiffs and the
answer of the said William B. Lawler, before the presiding
judge of said court, a jury trial therein having been waived
by the respectiv6 parties, the same having been decided in
favor of the plaintiffs, and that there is due on the notes and
mortgage upon which the action is brought the sum of four
thousand four hundred and ninety-five dollars and forty cents,
with interest from the 4th October, 1853, amounting in all to
$5,084.07; and, on motion, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the mortgaged premises, or so much thereof as
may be necessary, be sold by the sheriff for the payment of
the mortgage; and it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the defendants, and all persons claiming under
them, be forever barred," &c.
On the appeal of Lawler and others from the District Court
of Ramsey county to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
"the .matters at issue in this cause having been fully considered, it appears to this court that, in the proceedings, decree,
and judgment thereon, in the District Court of Ramsey county,
to this court appealed from, there is no error. It is therefore
ordered that said decree and judgment be in all things affirmed, with costs," &c.
From this last decree there is an appeal- now pending belbre
this court.
-In looking into the facts of this case, it does not appear that
the merits are changed by the views taken by the District
Court of Ramsey county, or by the decision of the Supreme
Court of the Territory.

SUPREME COURT. -

The evidence is against the disebarge of the mortgage. After the amount claimed under the mortgage, there is still a
balance due the plaintiffs on general account.
Upon the whole, the decree of thA Supreme Court of the
Territory is affirmed; and the cause is remitted to the Snpreme Court of the State of Minnesota, to be carried into
effect as the law authorizes.

"CHARLESEMERSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. HORATIO

N.

SLATER.

'In the case- of Slater v. Emerson, 19 Howard, 224, this ourt held that where
there was a-contract to finish a railroad by a given day, the parties to which
were the contractor with the railroad company of the one part, and a stockholder in the company of the other part, time was of the essence of the contract; and there could be no recovery on the written agreement without showing performance within the time limited 5 but added, that a subsequent performance and acceptance by the defendant would authorize Arecovery in a qan-

turn vmit.
This court now holds that the promise of the stockholder contained in the written agreement was an original undertaking, on a good and valid consideration
moving between the parties to the instrument, and not a special promise for
the debt, default, or misdoings, of another. Consequently, it is not within the
operation of the statute of frauds.
The cases upon this point examined.
Being an original contract, parol evidence was admissible to show that the
parties had, subsequently to the date of the contract, and before a breach of
it, made a new oral agreement, on a new and valuabla consideration, enlarging the time of performance, and varying its terms. .

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.
It was the same case which was before this court at a previous term, and is reported in 19 Howard, 224.
. The substance of that case and the new view of the present
one are fully stated in the opinion of the court, to which the
reader is referred.
It was argued by ikr. Hutchins and Mr/'. (ushing for the
plhintiff in error, and Mr. Bates for the defendant.

