290

SUPREME COURT.
Yurb's Executos v. Unt

Stalt.

THE EXECUTORS AND hEIRS OF AUGUSTIN DE YTURBmE, DruEASED, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED. STATES.
The 12th section of the act of 31st of August, 1852, providing for an appeal from
the board of land commissioners in California to the District Court directs
that notice of an intention to appeal shall be filed within six months; and on
failure to file such notice, the appeal shall be regarded as dismissed.
This language is mandatory on the court, and admits of no discretion. In case
of such failure, the appeal must be dismissed.

This case distinguished from those in which a court can relax its own rules.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Blair for the appellants, and -by Mir.
Stanton for the United States.
Mr. Blair thus noticed the point upon which the case
turned:
1. The District Court dismissed the appeal, on the ground
that its own order, allowing. the notice of appeal to *be filed
nunc Fro tune, was void.
I contend that this order was not invalid. The language of
the stafute, that "the appeal shall be considered as dismissed"
in case the notice is not filed as required, is directory merely.
It prescribes a rule as to the time of filing a paper in the progress of a cause; and such rules are directory merely, and are
never construed to prohibit the filing of the papera, after the
time limited, and before the adverse party has taken advantage of the omission.
O'Hara v. Nieury, 1 Sand. Sup. Ct., 655.
Cook v. Forrest, 18 Il., 581.
Wood v. Fobes, 5 Cal., 62.
1 Barb., 478.
8 Rich., 60.
9 Alabama, 899.
1 Brevard, 208.

D)CEMBER TERM, 1859.

291

flurbide's E ecutors v. United States.

The suit was instituted, and notice given of its pendency to
the United States, by filing-the transcript from the record of
the board of commissioners.
United States v Ritchie, 17 Howard, 334.
And in this case the United States was in defhult on this
very point, it not appearing that the Attorney General has
filed the notice in time.
The courit, being thus possessed of a cause which it was required to dispose of on the principles of equity, was authorized
to permit a proceeding required in the subsequent progress of
the cause to be take mtne pro tune fbr good cause, and in aid
of the ends of justice. That proceeding was altogether formal
and occasioned no surprise or injury to the adverse party; and
it would be against the whole spirit of the act, which required
the courts to deal with the rights of the claimants according
to the principles of equity, as well as against the ordinary
rules of practice, to hold that the order in relation to it was
void.
Mr. Stanton contended that the act of Congress was peremptory, and admitted of no discretion in the court below.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California. A grant of
twenty leagues square of land, equal to four hundred square
leagues, was made by the supreme Government of Mexico to
President Yturbide, to be located in Texas, on 25th February,
1822, "in recompense for his high merit, in having achieved
the independence of his country."
In 1835, the Congress of Mexico authorized his heirs to
locate the land in New Mexico, or in Upper or Lower California. On the 20ti of February, 1841, it was decreed by-the
President that the land should be located in Upper California;
and on the 5th of June, orders were given by the President
to the Governor of California to assign the land selected by
Salvador de Yturbide, one of the heirs, in fulfilment of the
grant, and the order was duly received by Pio Pico; bjit

SUPREME COURT.
Turbide's xecutors v. Uiid ,ttwea.

when Salvador was near Mazatlan, en route for California, to
locate and take possession of the land, he found that port in
rebellinn, and was obliged to return to Mexico.
Th,. claimants took no further proceedings till after,the close
of the war with the United States, and Congress had passed
laws to carry into effect the treaty stipulations. They proceded then to locate the olim-or the tract described on the
map, and presented their petition to the board of commissioners, asking for the confirmation of the grant. The board
rejected the claim, on the ground that it had not been locatedprior to the change of Government.
' An appeal was taken to the District Court, under the act of
1852; but the counsel of appellants, being detained from home
by sickness, did not file the notice, directed by the dct to, be
given within six months. Before any motion was made to dismiss the cause, they moved the court for leave to file the notice,
nunc pro tunc, and proved, to the satisfaction of the court, that
the omission to file the notice'was wholly accidental; and the
court thereupon allowed the motion, and ordered the notice
to be filed nune pro tune. But, on the.hearing of the cause, the
court decided that, under the statute of 1852, a' failure to file
the notice within six'months precluded ahy:further prosecition of an appeal, under any circumstances whatever, and
therefore dismissed the appeal.
The District Court, it is said, dismissed the appeal, on the
ground that its own order,-allowing the notice of appeal to be
filed nun pro tune, was void.
As the above statement is clear and, concise, it was copied
from the plaintiff's brief.
The counsel insists, that the allowance of the appeal, .after
the time limited, was not void; that the language of'the stat.
ute, that "the appeal shall be considered as dismissed, in case
the notice shall not be filed as required," is directory merely.
It must be admitted, that, ai to the matter of filing papers
and the entry of rules under the practice of the court, such
modifications may be made as may facilitate the progress of
the court and the convenience of parties; and, indeed, the
,tourt may, under peculiar circumstances, avoid an act of in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Uantd Stcad v. De Haro', Hdr:.

justice by the suspension of its rules; but this can only be
done where the discretion of the court may fairly be exercised.
Where an entry is required by statute, on a condition expressed, the court is bound by the statute. The language of
the act, that "the appeal shall be considered as dismissed"
where the notice is not filed as required, would seem to admit
of no doubt. "If the appeal shall be considered as dismissed,"
for want of notice, how can the court say it shall not be sc
considered?
If there be no saving in a statute, the court cannot add one
on equitable grounds. The 12th section of the act of 31stAugust, 1852, provides that, in every case in which the board
of commissioners shall render a final decision, it shall be their
duty to have two certified transcripts of their proceedings and
decisiona, and of the papers and evidence on which the same
were founded, made out, one of which transcripts shall be filed
with the clerk, shall ipso facto operate as an appeal for the party
against whom the decision shall be rendered; and if such decision shall be against the private claimant, it shall be his duty
to file a notice with the 'clerk of the court, within six months
thereafter, of his intention to prosecute the appeal; and if the
decision shall be against the United States, it shall be the duty
of the Attorney General of the United States, within six
months after receiving the said transcript, to cause to be filed
with the clerk aforesaid a notice that the appeal will be prosecuted by the United States; and on the failure of either party
to file such notic, with the clerk, the appeal shall be regarded
as dismissed.
This seems to be mandatory on the court, and authorizes
the exercise of no discretion.

THE. U rTD S8aTzs, APPELLaNTS, V. TH HIMS Of FRANOISCO
DI HARO, DECEASED.

There property in California has been in the undisturbed possession of the
claimaut and his heirs for sixteen years, without any other person claiming or-

