DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Walker.

United SW

v. Hopkim.

299

Unild State v. Fean.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN J. WALKER
THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. ARTHUR F.
HoP=s. TnE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
RICHARD LEE FEARN.
The act of Congress, passed on the 7th of May, 1822, (3 Stat. at L., 695,)
enumerated the ports of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and New Orleans, in which the collector was allowed to
receive more than three thousand dollars a year. In the non-enumerated
ports, the maximum rate of annual compensation or salary allowed to the
office was three thousand dollars.
Mobile was one of the non-enumerated ports, and consequently the salary of
the collector at Mobile was not to exceed three thousand dollars, by that act.
This act was not repealed by any of the numerous acts, called additional compensation acts, which were passed from time to time between 1833 and 1841,
until one of these temporary acts, viz: the act of 1838, (5 Stat at L., 265,)
was continued in force until otherwise directed by law by the 7th section of
the act for the relief of Chastelain and Ponvert and for other purposes,
passed on the 21st of July, 1840: (6 Stat. at L., 815.)
The history and purport given of the several statutes respecting the compensation of collectors, with the reasons whicri led to the passage of the act of
1841.
Nor was it repealed by the act of 3d March, 1841. (5 Stat. at L., 43-2.) There
is no repugnancy between the acts. Repeal by implication, upon the ground
thai thb subsequent'provision upon the same subject is repugnant to the prior
law, is not favored in any case; but where such repeal would operate to reopen accounts at the Treasury Department long since settled and closed, the
supposed repugnancy ought to be clear and controlling before it can be held
to have that effect.
By the true construction of this act of 1841, every collector- is required to include in his quarter-yearly accounts all sums received by him for rent and
storage of goods, wares, and merchandise, stored in the public stores, for
which rent is paid beyond the rent paid by him; and if, from such accounting,
the aggregate sums received from that source exceed two thousand dollars. he
is directed and required to pay the excess into the Treasury as part and parcel
of the public money. When the sums so received from that source in any year
do not in the aggregate exceed two thousand dollars, he may retain the whole
to his own use; and in no case is he obliged to pay into the Treasury any.
thing but the excess, beyond the two thousand dollars.
Collectors of the non-enumerated portg may rcceive, as an annual compensatioL
for thedir services, the sum -of three thousand dollars from the sources of
emolument recognised and prescribed by the act of 7th May, 1822, provided
their respective offices yield that amount fli-m thdse sources, after deductiog
the necessary expenses incident to the office, and not otherwise; and i, a,-

SUPREM-E COURT.
Tnhdted States v. Walker.

United States v. Hopkins. United Sta&3 v. Fearu

dition thereto, they are also entitled to whatever sum or sums they may
receive for rent and storage, provided the amount des not exceed two thou.
sand dollars; but the excess, beyond that sum, they are expressly required to
pay into the Treasury as part and parcel of the public money.
THESE three cases were brought up by writ of error from
the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
of Alabama.
They were suits brought by the United States upon a collector's bond; that against Walker being a suit against the
collector himself, as collector of customs for the port of Mobile, and the other two being suits against his sureties. They
were therefore identical in principle, and were argued and
decided together.
*The facts of the case, together with the instructions given
and refused by the court below, are all set forth in the opinion
of the court.

It was argued by .Mr. J. .Mason CampbeV, upon a brief submitted by himself and Mr. Black, (Attorney General,) for the
United States, and submitted on printed arguments by Mir.
Smith for the defendants in error, and by r. Stanberry, who
intervened as representing the late collector at Cincinnati
whose case was identical with that of the collector at Mobile.
A detailed report of the arguments of counsel upon both
sides, relative to the many statutes involved in this question,
would not be interesting to the profession generally, and it is
therefore omitted. It may be proper, however, to state the
general propositions upon each side.
Upon the part of the United States., it was contended that
the only question was as to the true construction of the act of
1841 and its effect upon the act of 1822.
1. The purpose of the act of 1841 was plainly not to increase, but to limit, the compensation of collectors. All over
two thousand dollars per annum received from the sources
specified in the commencement of the 5th section was to bo
part and parcel of the public money, and paid over as such,

DECEMBEP TERM, 1859.
UAWte

&alea. Wa~ker.

United Slatea v. Hophim..

801

Unitd State, Y. m

and no collector was to retain for himself, by the latter part of
the section, under any pretence, more than $6,000 per annum,
including every possible item of charge or .claim. Congress
rzight have aggregated into one all the sources from which
collectors could derive compensation, and then limited the
amount tobe enjoyed from the whole, but it has not done so.
It has segregated certain items by the act of 1841, and taken
from the collector all but $2,000 per annum of this partial
aggregate; and when, in the sentence following, it prohibits
more than $6,000 being annually enjoyed under any pretence,
no other interpretation will hold than that which makes the
sources of compensation, outside of the partial aggregate,
separately contribute, if they can, the residue of the amount.
The construction put on the act of 1841 by the court below
would have been correct, if the section had consisted only of
the latter part of it, and its fault consists in ignoring and
virtually repealing all that precedes.
2. The true construction of the act of 1841 being ascertained,
its operation-on the act of 1822 appears at once.
By the 9th section of that act, (3 Stat. at Large, 694,) the
maximum compensation of collectors at Boston, New York,
Philadelphia, Baltimore, Charleston, Savannah, and New Orleans, is fixed at $4,000 per annum, and by the 10th section
of all other collectors at $3,000 per annum, payable, as this
court ruled in Hoyt's case, out of the fees and commissions
allowed by t.o act of 1802.
10 Howard, 135.
The mention therefore in the act of 1841 of a maximum of
$6,000 from all sources is explained by the fact, that while it
limited a maximum of $2,000 as regarded certain particulars,
the act of 1822, in regard to the sources of emolument with
which it dealt, had already prescribed a maximum of $4,000
for the collectors of the seven ports enumerated in it. But no
construction can poosibly stand which makes the denial of
more than $6,000 per annum to the collectors of ports of the
first class, amount to an increase of the compensation of those
qfficers in other ports. The act of 1822 still operates in putting a limit to the collectors' conipnsatli, as regards the items

SUPREME COURT.
Undec &ate v. Wailce.

United Sakew v. HopkIc.

Unilec Sf~z v. Ffeam

which it contemplated, and fixes that limit to $4,000 per annum for the collectors of the seven ports mentioned in it, and
to $3,000 per annum for all other collectors, including the collector of Mobile, while the act of 1841 limits all of whatever
class to a maximum of $2,000 per annum, from the items
specified by it.
The conclusion to which Mr. Smith came, after examining
the statutes upon the, subject, was the following, viz:
The error of appellant, it is submitted, arises from overlooking the fact, that the several annual acts, made permanent by
that of 1840, established a maximum of four thousand dollars
for all ports, applicable to then existing sources of income;
and hence the error was committed, that the limit of six
thousand dollars in the act 'of 1841 was erroneously supposed
to refer to the maximum of.four thousand dollars in the act
of 1822. The two thousand dollars limited from particular
sources, by the act of 1841, added to the limit of four thousand
dollars in the act of 1840, makes the six thousand grand limit
of the act of 1840. It is impossible to give any operation to
-the limit of 1840, or of 1841, except upon the construction of
the statutes maintained for appellee; for, except upon such
construction, the limit of four thousand dollars was as inope"rativewithout, as with, the several annual acts, (made permanent by that of 1840,) and the act of 1841.
The view advanced for appellee is in harmony, too, with
the general design of all the qtatutes on the subject; it meets
the growing condition of the country,. and establishes v correspondence between labor and responsibility and reward; and
pursuing the -policy inaugurated in 1822, it adjusts the inaximum to the growth of towns and the country, and the spread
of commerce; and it finally relieves the question from all the
entanglements into which it is drawn by the views 'of Mr.
Attorney General Cushing, in his opinion before referred to,
and leaves each and every part and provision of each and
every law a field of operation.
If these views are correct, the judgment in the case of the
United States v. John J.Walker, and the two following caises

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United ftas v. Wa~cer.

United S~ate v. Hopkins.

United States v. Fearn

against his sureties, must be affirmed, because the record
shows: 1. That he did not receive six thousand dollars per
annum; and because two thousand dollars of his compensation in no year came from the sources to which this limit
applies.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district of
Alabarpa." It was an action of debt brought by the United
States upon the official bond of the defendant as collector of
the customs for the district and inspector of the revenue for
the port of Mobile. He gave the bond, with sureties, on the
seventh day of September, 1850, conditioned that he had truly
and faithfully executed and discharged, and that he would
continue truly and faithfully to execute and discharge, all the
duties of the office according to law. Neglect and refusal on
the part of the defendant to pay to the plaintiffs certain sums
of money received by him as such collector before the commencement of the suit, beyond what he was entitled to retain
as compensation for discharging the duties of the office, constituted the breaches- of the condition of the bond, as assigned.
in the declaration.
Those balances, as claimed by the plaintiffs, amounted to
the sum of thirteen thousand one hundred and eighty-four
dollars and forty-two cents; and the charge was, as alleged
in the declaration, that the defendant had wholly failed and
refused to pay the same. As appears by the transcript, the
defendant pleaded the general issue, and that he had fully
performed the conditions of the writing obligatory set forth
in the declaration.
To maintain the issue on their part, the plaintiffs introduced
a certified copy of the bond given by the defendant, and two
duly certified copies of transcripts from the Treasury Department, showing that the official accounts of the defendant had
been examined and adjusted by the accounting officers of that
department. According to those transcripts, the respective
balances claime( by the plaintiffi, as the accounts are there

SUPREME COURT.
Uni ed Sates v. WaVkr.

Uiaitd Skao v. Hopkin.

U'W SYt

v. Fea m

stated, had not been paid by the defendant, and remained due
and payable at the time the suit was commenced.
No evidence was adduced by the defendant. He was
charged in the account against him, as collector of the customs,
with all sums collected from duties on merchandise, tonnage
duties, hospital money, and for all sums received for rent and
storage of goods, wares, and merchandise, stored in the public
storehouses, for which a rent was paid beyond the rents paid
by the collector. On the other side, he was credited in the
account of official emoluments with the sum of three thousand
dollars As the maximum rate of the annual salary or compensation allowed to the collector of that port. Further details
of those accounts are omitted, for the reason that the charge
for rent and storage in the account of customs, and the
credit for salary in the account of official emoluments, are
the only two items which come in review at the present
time.
Reference to the ninth section of the act of the seventh of
May, 1822, will show that Mobile is not one of the seven ports
enumerated in that provision, and consequently that the
maximum rate of annual compensation or salary allowed to
the office under that law was three thousand dollars, as limited
by the tenth section, which includes all the ports not enumerated in the previous provision. All of the accounts of the
defendant were adjusted at the Treasury Department upon the
principle that the act of the seventh of May, 1822, was still hi
force, and that the maximum rate of compensation belonging
to the collector was three thousand dollars, az therein prescribed. It was insisted by the defendant that the provision
in question had been repealed by subsequent acta upon the
same subject, and that the maximum compensation allowed
by law to the office was six thousand dollars.
Assuming that the theory of the- defendant was correct, then
his accozints had been improperly adjusted, and there was
nothing due to the plaintiffs. On the other hand, if the
charge for rent and storage in his customs account was prop.
erly made, and the maximum rate of compensation belonging
to the office was only three thousand dollars, then he was

DECEMBER TERMT4, 1859.
ed Sata v. JaZker. United States v. Hopkins. Unit

305
fta v. Fean.

justly indebted to the plaintiffs for the whole amount of the
respective balances as stated in the transcripts.
After argument, the court instructed the jury, among other
things, that "the act of 3d March, 1841, was the last and
controlling law as to the amount of compensation which collectors are allowed annually to retain; and that, under that
enactment, the collector of this port was entitled to a compensation of six thousand dollars per anuum, provided the'same
was fielded from the office from commissions for duties and
fees for storage, and fees and emoluments,, and any other
commissions and salaries now allowed and limited by law, or
so much from those sources, not exceeding six thousand
dollars, as the office yielded."
That instruction affirmed the right of the defendant, under
the act of the third of March, 1841, to a compensation of six
thousand dollars per annum, or so much thereof, not exceeding that sum, as the office yielded from commissions of every
description, fees and emoluments, including rents and storage,
and salaries, as allowed and limited by law. Beyond question,
it assumed that the tenth section of the act of the seventh of
May, 1822, was repealed. Prayers for instruction were then
presented by the district attorney, who was counsel for the.
plaintiffi. He requested. the court to instruct the jury to the
effect that the- provisions of the act of the seveith of May,
1822, respecting the 'maximum compensation allowed to collectors of the customs, were not repealed by the act of the
third of March, 1841, or by any other act, but that the same
were in full force; 2. That the only effect the act of the third
of March, 1841, had upon the former act, in so far as the same
applied to a case like the present, was to -create a new and
additional source of emolument to such collectors, allowing
them to retain not exceeding two thousand dollars for rent
.and storage of goods, wares, and merchandise, stored' in the
public stores, and for which a rent was paid beyond the rents
paid by such collectors. Each of these prayers was separately
presented, and separately refused by the court.
Another prayer for instruction was then presented by the
district attorney. It .affirmed, in effect, that it was the duty
voL. xxrr.

20

800

SUPREME COURT.

Un~d &alwev. Walker. Uhftd&at3v. Ho; ia

nldSa~iv

of the defendant, as collector, whenever his emoluments in
any one year exceeded three thousand dollars, after deducting
the necessary expenses incident to the office, to pay the excees
into the Treasury, and that the plaintiffs were entitled to recover for all such balances, thus ascertained, as were shown to
be due from the evidence. Apply the first and third requested
instructions to the facts of the case, and it will be seen that
they affirmed the principles adopted by the accounting officers
of the Treasury, in restating the accounts of the defendant;
and if correct, then the whole amount of the respective balances, as stated in the transcript, -was due to the plaintiffs.
Taken together, they assume that the tenth section of the
act of the 7th of May, 1822, is in full force, and that the defendant had no right, under the act of the 3d of March, 1841,
to retain any portion of the amount received for rent and
storage. Those prayers for instructions having been refused,
the district attorney then prayed the court to instruct the jury
as follows:

"That under those acts, it was the duty of the defendan
as collector of the customs, whenever his emoluments exceeded three thousand dollars in any one year, after deducting the necessary expenses incident to his office, to pay the

excess, if any, into the Treasury, and the plaintiffi are entitled to recover the amount of any such surplus or surpluses,
if any, as may be shown by the evidence; but, in ascertaining
the amouht of the defendant's emoluments as such collector,
the jury must exclude all moneys derived by him from fines,
penalties, and forfeitures, and also all moneys derived by him
from rent and storage of goods, wares, and merchandise, which
may have been stored in the public storehouses, and for which
a rnt was paid beyond the rents paid by him as collector, unless the proceeds of such rents aid storage exceed two thousand-dollars; in which event, the excess over and above that
sum must be taken into account by them, in computing the
va'ue of the annual emoluments."
That prayer was also refused by the court. To understand
ity. precise effect, it is necessary that it should be read in con.
uection with the first and second prayers, which had previ-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

807

UWzted Slates v. Walker. United Sidte v. Hopkins. UnteWd fte v. Fear,.

ously been presented and refused. When considered together,
those three prayers disclose the second theory of the plaintiffs,
as assumed at the trial.
Like the one assumed in the third prayer, it affirmed that
the tenth section of the act of the 7th of May, 1822, was unrepealed, but conceded that the defendant had a right to retain
to his own vse the moneys received for rent and storage, to an
amount not exceeding two thousand dollars. Under the instruction of the court, the jury returned their verdict for the
defendant; and the plaintiffs excepted to the charge, and to
the several refusals of the court to give the requested instructions. Three questions are presented in the case for decision,
which will be-briefly and separately considered:
1. Whether the tenth section of the act of the 7th of May,
1822, is repealed by any subsequent act; and if not, then,
2. What is the true construction of the act of the 3d of
March, 1841, so far as the same applies to the present case?
3. Whether, by the true construction of the two acts, the
defendants had a right to retain to his own use the moneys
received from rent and storage, to an amount not exceeding
two thousand dollars.
1. It is insisted by the defendant that the maximum pre
scribed by the tenth section of the act of the 7th of May, 1822,
is repealed, and that, under the law regulating his compensation, the legal capacity of the office he held was six thousand
dollars, subject to the condition that two thousand dollars only
could be received from rent and storage. Six thousand dollars,
he maintains, is the maximum under the law of the 3d of
March, 1841, applicable to every collector, and that the compensation of each, within that limit, and subject to the beforenamed condition, is regulated solely by the amount of labor
performed.
-To show that the tenth section of the Act of the 7th of May,
1822, is repealed, his counsel, at the argument, referred to
various acts of Congress, passed subsequently to the tariff act
of the 14th of July, 1832, entitled "An act to alter and amend
the several acts imposing duties on imports."
They are as follows: 1838, 4 Stat., 629; 1884, 4 Stat., 698:

SUPREME COURT
Unite States v. Walker.

UiMited States v. Hoqpkin&

Unite Saec v. eamn

1885, 4 Stat., 771; 1886, 5 Stat., 113; 188', 5 Stat., 175; 1838,
5 Stat., 264; 1840, 6 Stat., 815, private act; 1841, 5 Stat., 431,
sec. 2.
By the first of those acts, usually called additional compensation acts, the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized,
among other things, to pay to the collectors, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such
sums as would give those officers respectively the same compensation in that year, according to the importations of the
year, as they would have been entitled to receive, if the tarift
act of the preceding year had not gone into effect. That provision, with certain additions and modifications, which will
presently be noticed, was annually re-enacted to the year
1840, when it was made permanent. For the most part it
was inserted in some one of the annual appropriation acts,
and was designed to accomplish the precise object which its
language describes, and nothing more.
Compensation to collectors, from the organization of the
Government to the present time, has been derived chiefly
from certain enumerated fees, commissions, and allowances,
to which has been added a prescribed sum, called salary, and
which is much less than the compensation to which the officer
is entitled. Provision for such fees, commissions, and allowances, was first made by the act of the 81st of July, 1789,
which also allowed to collectors certain propoitions of fines,
penalties, and forfeitures. 1 Stat., 64.
More permanent provision, however, was made by the act
of the 18th of February, 1793, by the act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage, passed on the 2d. of
March, 1799, and by the compensation act passed on the same
day. 1 Stat., 816, 627, 786.
By these several acts, certain enumerated feew and commissions- are made payable to collectors. They are also entitled
to certain proportions of fines, penalties, and forftitures. Accurate accounts were required to be kept by them of all fees
and official emoluments by them received, and of all expenser
for rent, fuel, stationery, and clerk hire, which they were re
quired annually to transniit to the Comptroller of the Treas

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
UWit

8O

aes v. Walker. Uiited %ste v. Hopkins. Unitea Slta v. .Fearn.

ury; but they were allowed to retain to their own use the
whole amouint of emolument derived from that source, without any limitation. Maximum rate of compensation was first
prescribed by the act of the 13th of April, 1802. That limit
was five thousand dollars, and it was applicable -to all collectors.
By that act, it was provided, that whenever the annual
emoluments of any collector, after deducting the expenses ineident to the office, amounted to more than five thousand dollars,
the surplus should be accounted for and paid into the Treasury.
2 Stat., 172.
Yurther regulations, as"to fees, commissions, other emoluments, and salaries, were made by the act of the 7th of lay,
1822, as therein prescribed.
One of those regulations was, that whenever the emoluments
of any collector, for seven enumerated ports, after deducting the
necessary expenses incident to the office, should exceed four
thousand dollars, the excess should be paid into the Treasury,
for the useof the United States. By the tenth section, it was also
provided, that whenever the emoluments of any other collector
of the customs should exceed three thousand dollars, after deducting such expenses, the excess should be paid into the
Treasury, for the same purpose. They were also required to
account to the Treasury for all emoluments and for all expenses incident to their offices, and those accounts were to be
rendered upon oath. Neither of the two last-mentioned acts
extended to fines, penalties, and forfeitures. 3 Stat., 695.
Under that act, three thousand dollars was the maximum
"which could be allowed to the office held by the defendant;
and it is conceded by his counsel that it remained in full
force to the -time when the additional compensation acts
before mentioned were passed. Large additions had been
made to the free list by the tariff act of the 14th of July, 1832,
and the rate of duties on imports so far- reduced that the
sources of emolument to collectors would not yield sufcient
to give them an adequate compensation. To supply that deficiency, those additional compensation acts were passed.
Much.reliance is placed by the counsel of the defendant upon

SUPREMAE COURT.
United States v. Walker. Unitted Btates v. Hop

(ki Wi3eo
ttsvea

3.

the last proviso, which appears in nearly the same form in
several of the acts. Take, for example, the one in the act of
the 7th of July, 1838, which:is the act that was subsequently
made permanent. It provides that no collector shall receive
more than four thousand dollars. That sum is the maximum
rate of compensation allowed to collectors of the enumerated
ports inthe 'act of the 7th of M1ay, 1822; and inasmuch as the
limit of three thousand dollars, therein prescribed as applicable to the non-enumerated ports, was not reproduced in the
new provision, it is insisted- it was repealed, so that every collector, whether of the enumerated or non-enumerated ports,
may now claim to receive an annual compensation of six
thousand dollars from the sources of emolument rec'ognised
by that act, provided his office yields that amount, after deducting the necessary expenses incident to the office. To
that proposition we cannot assent. :On the contrary, when
-welook at the language of the new provision, in connection
with that of the prior law, and consider the mischief that existed, the remedy provided, and the true reason of the remedy,
we are necessarily led to a different conclusion. Commercial
.ports, where the revenue is collected, were divided by the
*prior law, so far as respects the compensation of collectors,
into two classes, enumerated and non-enumerated. Collectors
of the seven enumerated ports might receive an annual compenation of four thousand dollars, provided their respective
offices produced that ainount, after deducting the necessary
expenses incident to the offices, from all-the sources of emolu-'
ment recoguised 'and prescribed by the existing laws.
On the same principles, and subject to the same conditions,
the collectors of the non-enumerated ports might receive an
annual compensation ofthree thousand dollars. No one could
receive more than that sum, and his lawful claim might be
.much less.
Ten yqars' experience under that lw,prior to the passage
-of the tAriff act of the 14th of July, 1832, had witnessed but
few c.omplaints respecting the classification of the ports, or the
standard of compensation to collectors of customs, and bad.
wa1led for no important alteration in the laws upon that sub-

I)ECEM.NIBEIR TERM, 1869.
UW Ska v. tWalker. United State v. Hqpkins.

United &a

.Fears.

ject. Throughout that period, the rates of duties on imports
were high, and nearly every article of consumption imported
from other countries was taxed. Change of policy in that behalf, as carried out in the legislation of the succeeding year,
affected the emoluments of collectors, and reduced the amount
of net income from the sources of their emolument below the
standard of a reasonable compensation. To remedy that mischief, and restore their compensation to what it would have
been if no change had taken place, was the purpose for which
those additional compensation acts were passed. Thpy had
the effect to change the basis of computation, so as to augment
the estimated net income from the authorized sources of emol.
ument to what it would have been if the tariff act had not
passed; but they were not intended to make any change,
either in the sources from which the emoluments were derived, or the maximum rate of compensation. Mention was
made of the largest maximum prescribed in the prior law, not
with any view to repeal or modify the other, which was applicable to the non-enumerated ports, but to exclude the conclusion that it was the intention of the provision to increase the
compensation of the collectors of the principal ports beyond
what it would have been if the free list had not been augmented, and there had been no diminution in the rates of
duties on imports.
Suppose there was nothing in the language of the act to
qualify the provision, and nothing in the history of the legislation upon the subject to aid in the exposition; still we would
not think it so clearly inconsistent with the prior law as to
operate as a repeal. Repeal by implication, upon the ground
that the subsequent provision upon the same subject is repugnant to the prior law, is not favored in any ease; but where
such repeal would operate to reopen accounts at the Treasury
Department long since settled'and closed, the supposed repugnahey cigbt to be clear and controlling before it can be held
to have that effect. Such was the doctrine substantially laid
down by this court in Wood v: United States, 16 Pet., 863;
and we have no hesitation in reaffirming it as applicable to
the present case. Aldridge et al. r. Williams. 8 How., 28; .U.

812
United S&e v. Walker.

SUPREME COURT.
United State8 v. Hopkins.

United State v. Feamr.

S. v. Pdckages of Dry Goods, 17 How., p. 93; 2 Dwarris on
Stat., 583.
All of these additional compensation acts are in ari maoewith the several acts prescribing the sources of emolument,
-and the whole must be constrded together. When they are
so considered, there is no such repugnancy as is supposed by
the defendant. Collectors, as before, were still required torender an account; and the new provision expressly provides
that no officer shall receive under that law a greater annual
salary or compensation than. was paid to him for the year the
before-mentioned tariff act was passed.
2. Having disposed of the proposition chiefly relied on by
the defendant, we come now to consider the second question
presented for decision. That question cannot be understood
without referring to the previous legislation upon the subject,
and the practice that had grown up under it. Imporers were.
allowed by the act of the fourteenth of July, 1832, to place
certain goods in the public stores, under bond, at their o.wff
risk, without paying the duties. Duties on goods so stored
were required to be paid one half in three months, and the
other half in six months; but while the goods remained in the
public stores, they were subject to customary storage and
charges, and to the payment of interest at the rate of six per
.cent. Goods thus deposited might be withdrawn at any time
in whole or in part by paying the duties on what were so recalled, together with customary storage and- charges and the
interest. Public stores were accordingly rented; and as the
business increased, the storage received by the collector from
the importers exceeded the amount paid to the owner of the
stores,. and there was no law requiring collectors to account
for the bxcess, which was retained by the collectors to their
own use, and went to swell the amount of their compensation.
To correct that supposed abuse, the act of the third of
March, 1841, was passed. By that act, every collector was
required to render a quarter-yearly account in addiction to the
ac-Bount previously directed by law. That additional account,
as prescribed in the act, was to include all sums collected or
reveived from fines, penalties, or forfeitures, or for seizure of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
TUW &atd

318

v. Wailcer. Unile Sta v. Hopkins. Unite Stat v. Fean.

goods, wares, and merchandise, or upon compromises made
upon seizures, or on account of suits instituted for frauds
against the revenue, or for rent and storage of goods, wares,
and merchandise, which were stored in the public stores, and
for which a rent was paid beyond the rents paid by the col.
lector. As originally framed, the provision required the collector, in case the sums received by him from all those sources
exceeded two thousand dollars, to pay the excess into the Treasury as part and parcel of the public money.. After it was introduced, however, it was so amended and changed in its
passage, that while it still directs the account to be rendered,
it requires no part of the money derived from those sources to
be paid into the Treasury, except what is received for rent ind
storage as aforesaid, and for "fees and emoluments." Every
collector was required to account for fees and emoluments by
previous laws; and as the account to be rendered" under this
act is expressly declared to be one "in addition to the account
now required," there is nothing left for that part of the section
directing the payment of the excess into the Treasury to operate upon, except the sums received for rent and storage.
By the true construction of the act, .therefore, every collector is required to include in his quarter-yearly account, as
directed in the first part of the section, all sums received by
hin for rent and storage of goods, wares, and merchandise,
stored in the public stores, for which rent is paid beyond the
rents paid by him as collector; and if, from such accounting,
the aggregate sums received from that source exceed two
thousand dollars, he is directed and required to pay the excess into the Treasury, as part and parcel of the public money.
When-the sums so received from that source in any year do
not in the aggregate exceed two thousand dollars, he may retain the whole to his own. use; and in no case is he obliged to
pay into the Treasury anything but the excess beyond the two
thousand dollars.
It is insisted, in one of the printed arguments filed in this
case, that the act now under consideration has the effect to
repeal the maximum prescribed in the prior act, and that every
vollector, under this act, is entitled to six thousand dollars as

314

SUPREME COURT.

Unied States v. Walkr. United States v. Hopkin3. United States v. eamn

an annual compensation, provided the office yields that sum
from all the sources of emolument, including rent and storage.
Collectors of the enumerated ports undoubtedly may receive
four thousand dollars from the sources of emolument recognised in the act of the seventh of May, 1822, and they may
also receive two thousand dollars from rents and storage.
Those two sums are equal to the new maximum rate created
by the act under consideration, which provides that no collector, under any pretence whatever, Shall receive, hold, or
-retain, more than six thousand'dollars per year, including all
commissions for duties and all, fees for storage, or fees, or
emoluments, or any other commidsions or salaries which are
now allowed and directed by lMw. But it is quite clear that
there is nothing in the act having' the slightest tendency to
show that the prior act is -repealed, so far as it is applicable to
the collectors of the non-enumerated ports. -To new maximum
is fixed to their compensation, -an6 tberi is not a word in the
new provision inconsistent with the tenth section ofthe prior act
To suppose that the'new maximum applies to the collectors
of the non-enumerated ports, .would be to impute an absurdity
to the act, for- the reason, that under no possible state of things
can such collectors lawfully retain, hold, or receive, more than
five thousand dollars as their annual salary or compensation,
from all the sources of emolument recognised and prescribed
Vy the two acts.' It may be five thousand dollars, or it may
be much less than three thousand dollars, according to the
state of the importations and the amount received from rent
and storage.
3. It only remains to apply the principles already ascertained, in order to determine the third question presented for decision. Collectors of the non-enumerated ports may receive,
as an annual cbmpensation for their services, the sum of three
thousaiA dollars from the sources of emolument recognised and
prescribed by the act of the seventh of May, 1822, provided
their respective offices yield that amount from those sources,
after deducting the necessary expenses incident to the office,
and not otherwise; and in addition thereto, they are also entitled to whatever sum or sums they may receive for rent and

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

'815'

Unitd ,States v. Mes 1Hir.

storage, provided the amount does not exceed two thousand
dollars; but the excess beyond that sum they are expressly
required to pay into the Treasury, as part and parcel of the
public money.
Charges against the defendant for rent and storage must be
settled in accordance with these principles. It follows, that
the instruction given by the presiding justice was erroneous;
and we also think that the.first, second, and fourth prayers for
instruction ought to have been given to the jury.
Suits were also instituted against the sureties of the defendant. Judgment was entered in the court below for the respective defendants in those suits, and the causes were removed into this court by writs of error, sued out by the plaintiffs. Those causes were submitted at the same time with the
one-just decided. They depend upon the same principles, and
must be disposed of in the same way.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed in
each of the three cases, and the respective cases are remanded,
with -directions to issue new venires.

THn UIMED

STATES, APPELLANTS, v. Tn WIDOW AND
MARCUS WEST, DECEASED.

mS or

Where a grant of laud in California was genuine, and issued by the proper
authority, a fraudulent attempt to alter it by erasures and interlneations for
the purpose of enlarging the quantity, made after California had been ceded
to the United States, will not vitiate the original grant.
Ihe book called Jimeno's Index is not an authoritative proof of grants eumer-

ated in it, or as a conclusive exclusion of grants not so registered, but may be
referred to -as an auxiliary memorandum made by Jimeno officially while he
was secretary.

TmIs was an appeal from the- District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton, upon a 'brief filed by the &t-

