DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

503

lilbournm et al. v. State Savings Institution of St. Louis.

court affirm the rule, that when a party, by his own contract,
creates a duty or charge upon himself, he is bound to make it
good, if he may, notwithstanding any accident by inevitable
necessity, because he might have provided against it by his
contract." It was for the libellees to furnish the evidence to
discharge themselves for th-e failure to perform their contract.
They insist that the delivery of the cargo into the customhouse under the order of the officers, and the payment of
duties by the consignees, was a right delivery, and that the
consignees are responsible for their safety afterward. We do
not concur in this opinion. The delivery contemplated by
the contract was a transfer of the property into the power and
possession of the consignees. The surrender of possession by
the master must be attended with no fact to impair the title
or affect the peaceful enjoyment of the property. The failure
to enter the property on the manifest was a cause of confiscation from the event, and rendered nugatory every effort subsequently to discharge the liability of the ship and owners.
The appellants complain that the proof does not support the
decree in respect of the damage assessed. One witness testifies to the market value of the packages in Rio de Janeiro,
and another approximates their cost in New York, and upon
this testimony the assessment was made. It was competent
to the appellants to introduce testimony in the Circuit Court,
or in this court, upon that subject, but none has been submitted.
We should not be justified in concluding the decree to be
erroneous under the circumstances.
Decree affirmed.

EDWARD KILBOURNE AND OTHERS V. THE STATE SAVINGS INSTITUTION OF ST. LoUIS, IN THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
Where no question was raised upon the trial of the case in the court below forthe consideration- of this court, nor did the plaintiff in error, by counsel or
otherwise, make one here, the judgment will be affirmed with cost and in.
terest at the rate of ten per cent. per anuum.

SUPRE ME COURT
Kilbourne el al. v. S atc Savings Institution of St. Louis.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the district of Iowa.
It was an action4 brought by way of petition by the State
Savings Institution in Missouri, against Edward Kilbourne,
R. B. Foote, Coleman & Foote, Anson L. Deming, and Henry
K. Love, citizens of the State of Iowa, upon a bill of exchange
for $1,410.37, drawn by Coleman & Foote upon Edward Kilbourne, payable to the order of R. B. Foote, one hundred and
twenty days after date, and which passed, by endorsement, to
the State Savings Institution of St. Louis; afterwards, there
were consolidated with this suit two others, one. upon a bill
for $1,526.23, and a third upon a bill for $3,000. The judgment of the court was as follows:
It is therefore considered by the court that plaintiffs recover
of said Coleman & Foote and Edward Kilbourne, as principals,
and R. B. Foote, A. L. Deming, and H. K. Love, sureties, the
sum of $6,440 aforesaid, with their costs in this behalf expended, to be taxed by the clerk.
The defendants sued out a writ of error, and brought the
case up to this court.

Mr. .Blair.and Mr. Polk, for the defendants in error, moved
to dismiss the writ, upon the ground that it was merely sued
out for delay.
Mr. Justice WAYIE delivered the opinion of the court.
No question was raised upon the trial of this case in the
court below, for the consideration of this court nor have the
plaintifrs in error, by counsel or otherwise, made one here.
The writ of error was obviously sued out for delay. We
direct the affirmance of the judgment and ten per cent. damages
ORDER-

It is now-'here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said District Court in this cause be and
the same is hereby affirmed with costs and interest at the rate
Of ten per cent. per annum.

