SUPREME COURT.
Datm V. Uawtd ftfw.

HEmY DALTON, APPELLANT, V. THE UNTED STATES.
Where the objection to a grant of land in California was, that the grantee was a
foreigner, and therefore not entitled to hold land, this court is of the opinion
that the testimony of conversations of admissions, relied upon to prove that
fact, ought not to.be received to outweigh the primafacie(if not conclusive)
presumptions arising from the expediente and definitive title.

THns was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the southern district of California.
The title of Dalton to the land which he claimed is set forth
in the opinion of the court.
The board of commissioners confirmed the. title, but the
District Court reversed the decree, apparently upon the
ground stated in the followifig exception:
Upon the trial of this cause, the United States district at.
torney offered to prove, by Daniel Sexton and J. S. Mallard.
witnesses called on the part of the United States, that Henry
Dalton, the appellee in this case, was not, at the time of the
grant of the land to him in this case, a citizen of Mexico, but
was an alien and a subject of Great Britain, which proof was
objected to by J. R. Scott, counsel for appellee; but his honor
the judge overruled the objection, and permitted the evidence
to be given; to which the appellee, by his counsel, excepted,
and prays the court to sign this his bill of exceptions, and
make the same part of the record in the case, which is accordingly done.
The evidence of these two persons upon this subject was as
fbllows:
Daniel Sexton sworn, and says:
1. Question. What is your name, age, place of residence,
and occupation?
Answer. My name is Daniel Sexton; my age, about 87; 1
reside in San Gabriel; I am a farmer.
2. Q. How long have you lived in California?
A. I have lived in this part of California, county of LoR
Akgeles, since the fall of 1841.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

487

Dalton v. United iState.

3. Q. Do. you know or not Henry Dalton, the appellee in
this case ?
A. Ido.
4. Q.' How long have you known him?
A. I have known him since the. latter part of 1844, or beginning of 1845.
5. Q. Do you know how long he has resided in California?
A. Yes; since the latter part of 1844 or beginning of 1845.
6. Q. Do you know the country of his birth?
A. He has frequently told me he was an Englishman.
7. Q. Do you recollect the last time he told you so?
A. Yes--in May, I think it was, in 1847; I was coming,
in company with Mr. Dalton, from Azusa to Santanita; he
told me that he was an Englishman; that he never was a Mexican citizen, and never intended to be an American citizen.
J. S. Mallard:
My name is J. S. Mallard; residence, San Gabriel; my age
is 89, and a merchant by occupation; 1 have resided in California five years, and in Los Angeles county the same length
of time, with the exception of four months. I know Henry
Dalton, and have known him since January, 1850, as a resident
of Los Angeles city.
Question. Do you know the rancho of San P'rancisquito?
Answer. I don't know that I do, only from report.
Q. Do you know the country of Mr. Dalton's birth?
A. I do not.
Q. Do you know whether or not Mr. Dalton, the appellee
in this case, is a native of Mexico? And if not, state generally
how you know the fact.
.A. Some time in the year 1853, I heard Mr. Dalton say
that he claimed not to be a citizen. of the United States, nor of
Mexico. I know it was in a court of justice, and think he was
called as a juror; (the court reserved their decision.) I think
he was under oath, but am not certain. I think it was in the
Court of Sessions, whilst I was sitting as an associate justice;
but I am not certain if it was in that court, or in a justice's
court, whilst I was a judge of both courts. I think he *was
excused on that ground.

SUPREME COURT.

Q. Did you ever hear Mr. Dalton sey, on any other occasiion, that he was not a naturalized citizen of Mexico?
A. I do not recollect that I ever did.
imant's Councel.
Cross-examinedby
Quetion. Did he say anything more than that he claimed
not to be a citizen?
Answer. My answer is, that he did. My recollection is,
that he stated, that while in Mexico, he had either applied i6
become a citizen, or had some papers made out; and that, from
some reason, which I do not recollect, the business of his naturalization was not completed.
Q. Did he not say this, that the papers had been made out
in Mazatlan, but that they had not reached him?
,A. It might have been so; but my recollection was, that
the action on his application had not been completed, and
that, for that reason, he (Dalton) said he did not consider himself a Mexican citizen.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Brent for the appellant,
and by Mr. Blak (Attorney General) for the United States.
The arguments upon the point whether or not Dalton, if a
foreigner, could hold lands in California, are omitted. Upon
the question of the evidence bearing upon this fact, Mr.
Brent remarked as follows:
IL It is submitted that there is no sufficient evidence in the
record to show that he was an alien to Mexico.
All the evidence in the record upon the subject of alienage
is in thedeposition of-J. S. Mallard, and answers inthe derosition of Sexton.
The substance of the deposition of Mallar, on the point of
alienage, is simply this-that the appellant, with the 'object of
avoiding jury service, made loose declarations that he did aot
claim or consider himself to have been a citizen of Mexico.
The witness, Mallard, nowhere says that Dalton admitted that
he was born in England, but only that he did not claim to be
%uAmerican or Mexican citizen. He may very well have boext

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

439

Dalton Y. United State,

a Mexican citizen, and not have claimed to be one; but would
that destroy his citizenship? The testimony of the other witness, Sexton, shows that, in 1847, Dalton declared he was not
a Mexican citizen, and that he never intended to be -an Amercan citizen. The court will recollect that, in 1847, we were
at war with Mexico-that our forces were overrunning California in every direction, and that, even supposing Mr. Dalton
to have been a naturalized Mexican citizen, it may not have
been suitable for his interest to avow that fact, in the midst
of the clamor of the war; or there" may have existed a hundred motives why be-would not have proclaimed the fact to
the American, Sexton.
None of these declarations of Dalton are in a positive form.
They were made to third parties, under circumstances not"
affecting this litigation, and they are not sufficient to rebut
the presumptions that he was a Mexican citizen. If the court
deem that a material presumption to sustain this grant against.
these loose declarations of his, we have the positive patent of
the Mexican authorities, not issued improvidently by the Governor, but after near two months' consideration, and after due
report from the municipal authorities that there was no impropriety in the grant. It seems to be a conclusive presumption
from a genuine grant, that the grantee was naturalized, or
otherwise competent to take.
8 Pick., 224.
United States v. Reading, 18 How., 8, 9.
The Attorney General contended that the alienage of Dalton
was clearly and satisfactorily proved.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion ofthe court.
The title of Dalton is found in the archives,*and its authenticity is not disputed. The expediente exhibits:
let. A petition of Henry Dalton, dated March 12th, 1845,
at Los Angeles, setting forth that he is a resident of that city;
that he is endeavoring to increase the number of cattle on the
premises which he possessed, called Azusa, but that he ladked
more land for that purpose; that the mission of San Gabriel

440

SUPREME COURT.
SDlto.

v. Uhitd Slat&.

owned a.large plain adjoining his tract of Azusa, which waR
useless to them. It-was accompanied with a diseno or map
of the land. The quantity desired was two sitios.
On the lth of March, Pio Pico, acting Governor, makes
the usual marginal order for information, referring the petition to. Father Thomas Estinega, minister to the mission of
San Gabriel, td report.
March 26th. Estinega reports, that the tract solicited is
one of those which the mission cannot cultivate, because it is
deficient in water; and considering that Dalton offers to deliver him, as a gift for the Indians, five hundred dollars, he
consents that a grant of the land be made to Dalton.
This petition was referred lso to the municipal counsel of
Los Angeles, who reported in favor of the grAnt and on the
14th of April certified their approval to the Governor.
On the 26th of May, 1845, Governor Pico orders a grant to
be made out for two sitios, and sent to the Departmental Assembly for their approval.
June 9th, 1845. The Departmental Assembly, upon report
of the committee on waste lands, to whom the expediente
had been referred, approve the grant as in conforiiiity with
the law of August lth, 1824, and the regulations of 21st of
November, 1828.
In pursuance of trds grant, judicial possession was delivered
to Dalton, February 14, 1846, in due form, iwith a regular surz7ey of the boundaries.
The only objection urged in this court to this title, as justifying its rejection, is, that Henry Dalton was a foreigner, and
had pot been naturalized, and was therefore incapable of taking a grant of land.
*The counsel for the plaintiff in error deny both the law and
the fact as assumed in this objection.
1st. They contend that it was no part of the policy of the
Sp~anish or Mexican Government to exclude foreigners from
holding lands; that the colonization law of 1824 invites for.
eigners to "come and establish themselves within the Mexican
. territory, and gives them privileges against taxation," &c.,
&c. ;.and provides that, until after 184.0, the General Congress
-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Dalton v. Vhte States.

shall not prohibit any foreigner as a colonist, unless imperious
circumstances should require it with respect to individuals of a
partictuar aution.
2d: They'contend, also, that the regulations of 1828 require
the Governor to obtain the necessary information as to whether
the petitioner is a person within the conditions required to receive a grant; that the expediente found in the record shows
a full compliance with the law; that the definitive title, which'
is a valid patent, reciteg that the petitioner was "in the actual
possession, by just title, of a rancho" known by the name of
Azusa; that this is a legislative adjudication of the fact of the
grantee's capacity to hold land, and per se -anaturalization, if
he hid previously been an alien; that, at ]east, it affords a
prima facie if not a conclusive presumption of the .grantee's
capacity to receive a further grant of lands.
3d. They contend, also, that any legislation repugnant to
this policy of the Government of Mexico since that time originated in, perhaps, a just jealousy of their American neigh.
bors, and was aimed wholly at them, -and intended to apply
only to the colonies bounding on the United States; that this
is apparent from the edict of Santa Anna of 1842, which permits foreigners not citizens, residing in the Republic, to acquire and hold lands, and excepts only the Departments "upon
the frontier and. bordering upon other nations;" that California
was never treated as within this category, as the colonized and
tiettled portion of it is separated a thousand miles from the
frontier or border of any nation, and was at that time almost
a terra incognita to the rest of the world.
4th. They contend that, by the Spanish as well as by
the common law, a foreigner is not incapable of taking a
grant of land, but holds it subject to be denounced in thd one
case, and forfeited by an inquest of escheat in the other; that
the grant in this case being complete, neither the United
States land commissioners, nor the courts authorized to adjuaicate the Mexican titl. under the treaty, can exercise the
functions either of denouncers or escheators.
5th and lastly. It is contended, that even if the- court
--onsidered .itself bound to declare this grant void by reason

"SUPIbmE COURT.
Dalton v. Unfdte S~de.

of the alleged incapacity of the grantee to take or hold, yet
that there is no sufficient evidence to establish the fact of
alienage against the strong presumption of the contrary,
arising from the face of the expediente and definitive title.
The court do not intend to express any opinion upon the
first four of these propositions, as the last suggests a sufficient
reason for the confirmation of this grant.
In all cases, the testimony of admissions or loose conversetions should be cautiously received, if received at all. They are
incapable of contradiction. They are seldom anything more
than the vague impressions of a witness of what he thinul
lie has heard another say-stated in his own language,.wfhout the qualifications or restrictions, the tone, manner, or circumstances, which attended their original expression. If a
complete record title with ten years' possession could be
divested by such testimony, its tenure would be very.precarious, especially where th" owner is surrounded by a population of settlers interested.in defeating it. All the evidence on
the record on the subject of alienage, besides that of a brother
who proved himsdf an alien, is in the deposition of two vitnesses. One states that Dalton, in order to avoid Servig as ajwUyman, said "he did not claim to. be an Ameri'an or Mexican
citizen." He might well have been a citisen, although he was
not desirous of setting up such a claim on that occasion. The
other states that in 1847, duing the war, when the country
was occupied by the American forces, he said " he v t not a
Mexican, and never intended to become an American citizen." At such a time, he may have had many motives
prompting him to make such a representation. The Mexican
Government bad ceded to protect him, and the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo had not then made him an American citizen.
Now, assuming that these witnesses have remembered and
reported&the precise words used by the claimant in these loose
conversations, they contain no positive assertion that he had
never been naturalized, or was born out of Menico. Ouch
testimony>bught not to be received to outweigh the yr_,
facie (if not conclusive) presumptiono arising from the'e
"
diente and definitive title.

DECEIMIBER TERM, 1850.

448

In this respect , this case closely resembles the case of United States v. Reading. (18 How., 1.)
I
M, title
The decree of the District AMR I,,
of thd claimant to the land ih ,uestion is hereby confirmed.

Josa MARIA FuENTES V.TE UNITED STATS.
A petition was presented to the board of commissioners in Californa* claiming
the confirmation of a title to land, which petition alleged1. that a grant had been issued by Micheltorena, and delivered in June, 1843.
2. That it was recorded.
3. That it was not to be found in the archives, because the record had been

burned.
4. That the grant wae approved by the Departmental Assembly, but that the
record of such approval had been burned.
6. That therefore the claimant could not produce any evidence that the grant
had been so approved.
The secondary evidence offered does not prove the existence of such records,
nor their destruction. The recital in the grant is not sufficient evidence of

this.
The paper produced by the claimant, purporting to be a grant must therefore
be judged by itsel- There was no evidence that it had been preceded by the
usual formalities, such as a petition, an examination, an inquiry into the
character of the applicant, an order for a survey, a reference to a magistrate
for a report, a transmission of. the grant to the Departmental Assembly, nor
was there an eipediente on file.
Where these requirements do not appear, a presumption arises against the genu.
ineness of the grant, making it a proper subject of inquiry before that fact

can be admitted.
The evidence produced in this case does not establish the genuineness of the

grant.
There is also an absence of all proof that the grant had been delivered to the
grantee, then a minor, or to any one for him. If the grant was genumne, and

not delivered until after the cession of California to thi.United States it would
not give the grantee any right to claim the land.
A recital in the paper or grant, that the pre-requisites had been complied with,
is not sufficient ground for a presumption that they had been observed. The

cas

decided heretofore by this court do not support the position.

These cases examined.
If the conditions imposed by the grant were conditions subsequeu yet ths
grantee allowed years to pass without any attempt to perform them until a
change of circumstances had taken place, which amounts to evidence of an
obandonment.

