DECEM3ER TERM, ?859.

83

Cu=uu v. EirmZling.

the contract, as far as it had been executed, and to enable him
to complete it according to the engagement that had been en'
tored into.
The power of attorney and the deed had been on the public records for thirty-fo.ur years before this suit was commenced, and for five years these defendants had been in the
actual possesion of the property. It had been repeatedly sold
during this long period. To the inquiry made of the witness,
whether the purchase money had been paid to the grantors, or
-vhether the security on real .property had been taken, he answers: "This affiant is informed and believes that most of the
lands were sold to William O'Hara without security, or the
payment of anything in hand upon the promissory notes of
the said O'Hara, which, as this afflant is informed and believes, were in the hands of Beck at the time of his death, and
'copies of which, * * as he is informed and believes, * * *
are annexed." It is the opinion of the court that this testimony was not admissible; and although it was read to the
jury, it did not contain anything to warrant a conclusion un-favorable to the title of the defendants.
Judgment affirmed.
JOSEPH S. CUOULLU, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.Louis EmMRiad.
Whre, according to the practice in Louisiana, the facts of the case are stated
by the court below in the nature of a special verdict, an objection that the
contract sued upon could not be proved by one witness only, comes too late
when made for the first time in this court.
According to that practice, the judge below finds facts, and not evidence of those
facta

THIS case .was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
In 1857, Emmerling, a resident of New Orleans, an alien
subject of the Grand Duke of Hesse Darmstadt, filed his petition in the Oircuit Court, alleging that Cucullu had employed
him as a broker to sell an estate. The cause was submitted
to the court below, which ibund the following facts, viz:

SUPREME COURT.
.oiU v. cone e el.

curit , or any form of security except that specified in the con.
dition. .N(n est in faeultate mandatarii addere vel demere ordm
sibi dato. These propositions are not disputed as applicable to
cases arising between parties to the original contract, in which
the limitations on the authority and the circumstances of departure from it in the execution are understood. But it is
contended that bona fide purchasers are entitled to repose
credit in the recitals and declarations of the attorney as expressed in his deed, that disclose the mode in which the authority has been exercised, and will be protected against their
falsity. That the principal is estopped to deny their truth.
This argument rests for its support upon the hypothesis that
the delinquency of the mandatary is a breach of an equitable
trust, a trust cognizable in a court of chancery only, a court
that will not administer relief against a bona fide purchaser
having the legal title. It assumes that the deed made by the
attorney invests the grantee with the legal title, notwithstanding
the non-compliance with the condition. If this were true, the
inference would follow. Danbury v. Lockburn, 1 Meri., 626.
But the assumption is not tenable. The attorney was not invested with the legal estate. He was the minister, the servant,
of his constituent, and his authority to convey the legal estate
did not arise except upon a valid sale in accordance with the
requirements of the power.
Doe v. Martin, 4 T. R., 39; Minot v. Prescott, 14 Mass. R.,
495. The deed executed by the attorney is apparently within
the scope of his power, and the admission of payment of the
consideration is competent testimony of the fact. American
Fur Co.v. United States, 2 Peters R., 358. But it is competent to his principal to show that the transaction was in appearance only, and not in fact within the authority bestowed.
And the question arises, was there any testimony to be submitted to the jury to repel the presumption that there was a
bona fide execution of the trust reposed in the attor.ney? One
of the donors of the power, but who does not appear to be interested in the land otherwise than by the recital in that in8trunment, admits his knowledge of the terms of the sale made
to O'tara; that this power was remitted to Beck to validate

DEOEMBER TERM', 1859.

81

MoiWi v. Con et al

and term of credit. That this agreement was communicated
by letter to the witness, who sanctioned it, and sent a power
of attorney to Beck to complete the sale and to execute the
titles, but to reserve a mortgage on the lands sold to secure
the payment of the purchase money.
O'Hara objected to giving a mortgage upon the lands purchased by him, but offered to give security upon other real
.property. Thereupon the attorney prepared a deed for all
the lands embraced in the contract to O'Hara, and took his
-notes for the purchase, money, and gave to him his guaranty
that his constituents wbuld confirm the sale, and received from
him a covenant that whenever Beck should receive a power of
attorney to convey said lands and confirm his proceedings, and
deliver the same to him, O'Hara, he would deliver to Beck
for his constituents a sufficient mortgage upon real property
to secure the price. The power of attorney produced. by the
defendants was prepared by Beck without the condition, and
sent to Low, to be executed by him-and the others, to enable
him to fulfil the agreement. This was done by them after
adding the condition, on the 12th February, 1821. The witness says that there was no schedule attached to it. He answers from information and*belief that Beck did not collect
from O'Hara any money; or receive from him any further security. The district judge, upon this testimony, instructed the
jury that the defendants had the superior title, and their verdict was accordingly rendered for them.
The authority conferred upon the mandatary by the letter
of attorney is special and limited, and his acts under it are
valid only as they come within its scope and operation. He
was bound to conform to the conditions it contains, and in its
execution to adopt the nodes it indicates.
He was authorized to sell the lands for cash, or on a credit
with security on real property, to execute a deed describing
the consideration, acknowledging its payment, and to receive
the money or securities the purchaser might render. Peck r
Harriott, 6 S. and R., 149; 9 Leigh R., 387. But he was not
authorized to exchange the lands for other property, or to accept the notes of the vendee as cash, or to accept personal scVOL,. XXII

6

SUPREME COURT.
morrill v. Cone efaL

ing in the tract appropriated for military bounties in Illinois,
and granted by the United States in 1818 to Benjamin Abbott,
a private in their army in the war of 1812, "s bounty. The
title of the plaintiff consisted of a certified c6py of the patent to
Abbott, and a quit-claim deed of Abbott to him, dated in 1855.
lie also produced a deed from Nathaniel Abbott to him, dated
in 1838. The defendants exhibited the original patent to Abbott; his deed to lNathaniel Abbott, dated in 1818, for the same
'and;' .adeed from Nathaniel Abbott, John Low, and John D.
Abbott, dated 12th September, 1820, to William O'Hara, and
executed by Abraham Beck as attorney, and connected themselves with this deed, by a number of mesne conveyances, the
last of which was to the defendants, and was executed in April,
1850. They entered upon the land under this deed, and paidtaxes until the commencement of this .suit. These conveyances were recorded in the proper 'office. The questions presented by the bill of .exceptions sealed for the plaintiff on the
trial arise on the conveyance to William O'Hara, by Nathaniel
Abbott, John Low, and Jobil D. Abbott.
This deed purports to have been made upon a pecuniary
consideration, the amount and receipt of which is acknowledged. The letter of attorney to Beck is dated the 14th July,
1820, and was recorded the 30th July, 1821. It authorizes
the attorney to sell and convey some sixty-four parcels of land,
including the one in dispute, in the military tract described in
a schedule annexed, for such price and to such persons as he
might think fit, and to make, dxecute, and delivei -good and
sufficient warranty deeds to them. To the ordinary testimonium clause a proviso was added, "that the conditon is understood to be such, that our said attorney is to take sufficient security on real estate for all the lands which may be sold on a
credit." The donors of this power of attorney reside in New
Hampshire; the attorney in Missouri.
The plaintiff read a deposition of John Low, one of the
donors of the power, from which we collect that Beck, the attorney, was verbally authorized to find a purchaser for the
lands des-ribed in the schedule, and other parcels in the mili.
tary tract in Illinois, and agreed with O'Hara upon the price

