SUPREME COURT.
Ward v. 27wp=&a
the breach of that covenant. The appellee had notice of thia
encumbrance when he made and performed his agreement of
purchase, and did not stipulate for any additional indemnity
to that resulting from the covenant of warranty. We must
therefore conclude that he was willing to abide the settlement
of the aftkirs of the Real Estate Bank, and to rely upon the
protection afforded by the covenants in his deed. We have
no reason to suppose that the vendo would have consented to
deposit in the hands of a stranger four times the value of the
property he sold, as a security for the fulfilment of his con-tract; nor can, we superadd this to the other 'obligations he
has assumed.
Our 6piuion is, that the decree of the District Court is
erroneous, and must.be reversec.
The deeds tendered seem to be in conformity with the stipulation of the vendor in the agreement. Thevendee may elect
to take these, or he may retain the agreement. In either case,
his bill will be dismissed with costs; and for this purpose the
* cause is remanded.
EBER B.

WARD,

SURVIVOR,

&e,

OWIE=R O1

TMfl STrAJ.IBOAT

:DETROiT, APPzLLANT, v. CHANa Taommox,
Where certain parties joined together to carry on an adventure in trade for their
mutual benefit--one contributing a vessel, and the other hi chill, labor, experience, &c.-and there was to be a communion of profits on a fixed rWw, it
was a contract over which a court of admiralty had no jurisdiction.

TAis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting in admiralty, for the district of Michigan.
It was a libel filed by Eber B. Ward against Charles Thom.
son, in the District Court of the United States, in a cause of
contract, civil and maritime. The ground of the libal was the
agreement which will presently be reported. The District
Court dismissed the libel, which decree was affirmed by the
Circuit Court upon an appeal. The libellant brought the
case up to this court.
The case was submitted on printed arguments by Hr. Hew.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

881

Ward Y. TamoVp

berry for the appellant, and Mr. Hand and Mr. Lothrop for
appellee. These arguments embraced the whole merits of the
contest between the parties; but as the only point considered
in the decision in this court relates to the construction of the
following contract, they need not be further noticed:
"Memorandum of an agreement between E. B. &S. Ward,
of Detroit, Michigan, of the first part, and Charles Thompson,
of Canada West, of the second part., ivitnesseth: That the said
party of the first part agree to allow the party of. the second
part to run the steamer Detroit between the Sault Ste. Marie
and Penetanguishene during the remainder of the sailing
season of 1852, and all the year A. D. 1853, in a line with
and under the general control and management of the party
of the second part, who is to appoint all the officers and crew
of said steamer, except the clerk or purser, who is to be under
the control of the parties of the first part, and subject to their
direction. Said steamer is to be paid for the transportation
of the Government mails, and for all freights and passengers,the same rates as have heretofore. been charged by steamers
on the route aforesaid.
"The receipts of the said steamer are to be applied as follows:
"First. All expenses for crew, fuel, repairs, and supplies,
are to be paid.
"Secondly. The cost of insuring, said steamer, to the
amount of twelve thousand dollars, to be paid by E.B. & S.
Ward.
"Thirdly. E. B. & S. Ward are to be paid, out of the first
net earnings of said steamer, six thousand dollars.
"Fourthly. All the remaining balance, after paying the
above, is to be equally divided between E. B. & S. Ward and
Charles Thompson aforesaid. The clerk of said boat will be
required to make reports as often as once in two weeks of the
receipts and expenditures of said steamer, and furnish the
said Thompson and Wards each a copy. The said Thompson is to be paid three hundred dollars per year, out of the
earnings of' said boat, for his services as agent for said steamer

SITPP7E\ f

'OIT.

TVard v. Thomupson.

Should the said steamer be damaged by any accident, or require repairs, such expenses are to be paid for by said steamer
out of her own earnings, the same as for supplies. It is further
agreed. and understood that the said Charles Thompson is to
protect, defend, and guara1y said steamer against any and
all infringements of the revenue law of the United States or
Great Britain. The said steamer is to be returned and delivered unto the said parties of the first part on the first day of
December, 1853, at Detroit, in the same condition (ordinary
wear and tear excepted) as she is now in. Should the said
steamer be lost before she shall have earned the above sum of
six thousand dollars, to be paid to the said E. B. & S. Ward,
said Thompson is not to be held liable to pay any part thereof,
but the said Thompson shall be held responsible for the negligence, misconduct, or wilful mismanagement, of the said
steamer, by the officei's under his control and management.
In case of any partial loss, for which, insurance would be paid,
such insurance, when collected, shall be applied to the repairs
aforesaid. The said Thompson agrees to furnish good merchantable wood'for said steamer, during the time she may be
running in his-service, at $1 per cord; the best of hard wood,
if full four fbet long, to be $1.121 per cord.
"(Signed)
E. B. WARD.
[L. S.]
"(Signed)
S. W"&
[L. .]
"(Signed)
CHARnEs THomPson. [L. s.]
"Signed, sealed, and delivered, this 10th day of June, A.
D. 1852.
"Witness, (Signed)
ALEXA'NDR M. MCGREGOR.
"Memorandum. The Detroit is to be delivered as soon as
she returns from Buffalo, on her present trip.
"(Signed)
E. B. Wa."
-

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the ojJinion of the court.
The articles of-agreement containing the contract, which.is
the subject matter of this suit, are denominated in the libel a
charter-party of the steamboat Detroit to respondent. The
answer denies that he had chartered the vessel, and -alleges
that the writing declared on is a contract of partnership, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Ward v. Thom.psn.

not a charter-party. The Circuit Court agreed with the respondent as to the construction of the contract, and consequently dismissed the bill.
A court of admiralty takes cognizance of certain questions
between part owners, as to the possession and employment of
the ship, but will not assume jurisdiction in matters of account
between them. (Orleans v. Phoebus, 11 Peters, 175.) It is
not disputed that a contract of partnership in the earnings of
a ship comes within the same category. If the party desires
an account, his remedy is in a court of chancery. If his complaint be for a breach of some independent covenant, he should
seek his remedy in a court of common law.
A chatter-party is defined to be "a contract by which a
ship, or some principal part thereof, is let to a merchant, for
the conveyance of goods on. a determined voyage to one or
more places."
A contract of partnership is where parties join together
their money, goods, labor, or skill, for the purposes of trade
or gain, and where there is a community of profits.
The only characteristics of a charter-party to be found in
this contract are, that the subject of it is a ship, and that libel]ants are owners. There is no letting or hiring of the ship tq
the respondent for a given voyage, to be employed by him for
his own profit. On the contrary, the Wards contributed a
steamboat, to be put into a line for freight and passengers,
which has also a contract for carrying the mail. Thompson
contributes the good will of an established line, together with
his care, skill, and experience. He is to have the general
management of the business, and the selection of the officers
and crew; but the clerk, or receiving and disbursing agent, is
to be appointed by the Wards, and to be under their con.
trol.
The receipts of the steamer are to be applied1st. To pay expenses.
2d. Insurance.
3d. Six thousand dollars to Ward.
4th. Three hundred to Thompson.
5th. The balance of the profits to be equally divided.

SUPREME COURT.
B~twd a~d. v.

Z!ConJ

eg a

Here we have everything necesery to constitute a partner.

ship:
1st. The parties have joind together to carry on a certain
adventure or trade, for their mutual profit-one contributing
the vessel, the other his skill, labor, and experience, &c.
2d. There is a communion of profits, on a fixed ratio.
Of such a contract, a court of admiralty has no jurisdiction.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

PxniR A. Bm

oTHoLD
AND oTHMS, PLAINTIFFS n
J'Ams MoDoNALD AND MMnY MoR=E.

ERo,

V.

Where the decision of the Supreme Court of a State was against the validity of
a title to land derived from a confirmation by the board of c6mmiassonea
sitting under the act of March 3, 1807, this court has jurisdiction, under thp
25th section of the judiciary act, to review that decision.
Where the controversy was between two claimants to land, both of whom held
equitable titles only under confirmation by the board of commissioners above
mentioned, the court had a right to go behind the prima fack title resultmng

from the confirmation, and to instruct the jury as to such facts as would tend to
establish the superior equity of one of the claimants.

Tins case was brought up from the Supreifie Court of the
State of Missouri by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
It was'an action -of ejectmetit brought by Berthold and
others against the defendants in error, to recover the possession of a tract of land near St. Louis, containing eighty
arpens, equivalent to -sixty-eight acres. The action was originally brought in the St. Louis land court. Under the Spanish Government, there was a common field near to the town
of St. Louis, called the common field of the Prairie des Noyers.
In this common field were two lots, owned respectively by
two negresses, one of whom was named Florence Flore, and
the other, named Jeannette, or Jeannette Flore. Berthold
and the other plaintiffs in error claimed under Florence Flore,
and McDonald and Mary McRee under Jeannette. Both claims
wee - confirmed in the manner stated in the opinion of the

