SUPREMN1E COURT.
Aepto d a. v. CJommis3sioneraof the County of Davlmg.

system of that State, the maintenance of public order, the
repose of society, and the quiet of families, require that what
has been definitely determined by competent tribunals shall
be accepted as irrefragable legal truth. So deeply is this principle implanted in her jurisprudence, that commentators upon
it have said, the resjdicatarenders white that which is black,
and straight that which is crooked. .Facitexcurvo rectum, cx
albo nigrum. No other evidence can afford strength to the
presumption of truth it creates, and no argument can detract
from its legal efficacy.
The jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, in cases
like the present, is derived exclusively from the fact that the
parties are citizens of different States. The rights of these
parties originate in the law of Louisiana, and must be ascertained by a reference to the principles adopted and administered by her constituted authorities. We are not invested
with power to review the sentences of her courts, except in a
few cases arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States; nor is it our province to augment or diminish
their value, or to place any different estimate upon them than
they have in the municipal code of the State. They are entitled
to the same force and effect here as they have in Louisiana.
The statement of the case of these parties shows conclusively that the whole subject of this controversy has been legally
submitted to the tribunals of Louisiana, and that the adjudication was in favor of the defendants.
This was the decision of the Circuit Court of the United
States in Louisiana, from whose judgment this writ of error
has been taken. It remains for us only to affirm that judgment.
Judgment affirmed.
WILLlAM IL AsPin ALL, JOSEPH.W. Aisop, HERY CHAUZcEY,
CHARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M. BARBOUR, PLAINTIFFS,
v. THE BOARD OF COMISSI ERS OF THE CouNTY ov DAvmss
The charter of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, passed by the Leg
ilature of Indiana in 1848, and a supplement 2.1
1849, authorized the county

!'ECEMi)P.ft TERM, 1859.
A.binwaU et al. v.

365

ommiss':onirs of the County of Davkw.

commissioners of a county through which the road passed to subscribe for
stock and issue bonds, provided a majority of the qualified voters of the county
voted, on the 1st of March, 1849, that this should be done.
The election was held on the appointed day, and a majority of the voters voted
that the subscription should be made.
But before the subscription was made, the State adopted a new Constitution,
which went into effect on the 1st November, 1851. One of the articles prohibited such subscriptions, unless paid for in cash, and prohibited also a
county from loaning its credit or borrowing money to pay such subscriptions.
In 1852, the county commissioners of Daviess county subscribed for stock in
the railroid company, and issued their bonds for the amount.
The provisions of tie railroad charter, authorizing the commissioners to sub.
senbe, conferred a power upon a public corporation or civil institution of Gov-

emiment, which could b- modified, changed, enlarged, or restrained, by the
legislative authority, the charter not importing a contract, within the meaning
of the clause of the Constitution prohibiting a State from passing a law im.
pairing the obligation of contracts.
The mere vote to subscribe did not of itself, form such a contract with the rail
road company as would be protected by the 10th section of the Ist article of
the Constitution of the United States. Until the subscription was actually
made, the contract was unexecuted.
The bonds were issued in violation of the Constitution of Indiana, and are there.
fore void.

THis case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana, on a certificate of division
in opinion between the judges thereof.
The nature of the case and the certificate of division in opiniion are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Vinton and Mr. Be7jamin for the
plaintiffs, upon which side there was also a brief filed by Mr
Judah, and by Mr. Porter, upon a brief filed by himself and
Mr. McDonald, for the defendants.
The points for the plaintiffs were very much illustrated by
Mr. Vi'non and Mr. Benjamin, in their arguments. Essentially, however, they are stated in the brief of Mr. Judah, from
which the following statement of'them is taken:
The first question on which the judges differed relates to
the nature of the right granted by the act of incorporation,
and by the amendment to -that act to the railroad company, to

SUPREME COURT
Asyinwall el at. v. Commissioners of 1te County of Daedeo.

receive county subscriptions. In other words, was it a vested
right, beyond the reach of a law or Constitution made afterwards ?
There is no provision in the-new Constitution of Indiana as
to existing rights, either personal or corporate, except the
ordinary declarations, "No man's property shall be taken by
laAV, without just compensation."
Art. 1, see. 21.
And "no law impairing the obligation of contracts ahall
ever be passed."
Art. 1, sec. 24.
We assume that the property of private corporations is protected by section 21.
By the act of incorporation,.a capital of five millions is contemplated; but the company, is allowed to organize on the
subscription of two hundred thousand dollars, and a payment
at the time of subscription is required. By the 12th section,
counties are authorized to subscribe for stock, as, by the 6th
section, all persons of lawful age and all corporations of the
United States may subscribe. Does the power exist anywhere
to restrain these rights, against-the will of the company? If
the company may be deprived of one of. these classes of subscribers, it may be deprived of all; and thus its entire capacity
may be destroyed, and itself in effect annihilated.
But it is argued that counties are municipal corporations;
tfiat municipal corporations are under the control of State legislation; and that those who contract with them contract subject to this control. And we answer, it is true that muncipal
corporations are subject to the control of the Legislature. That
is the general rule. Is there not, in the nature of things, in
exception? If the Legislature creates a municipal corppration,
and eudows it with other powers-with powers "to contract
and be contracted with;" with powers of a private and not of
a political nature; with powers including the rights and duties
and obligations of private corporations and individuals-does
it not create an exception as to such rights, duties, and obli.
gations? In such case, the Legislature may control, may dissolve the corporation, but the rights, the duties, and obliga.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Aspinwall el al. Y. Conmnissioners of the Cowdy of Daviess.

tions, will remain chargeable on its property. And we refer
to the orinions of this court in at least two cases.
Mumma v. Potomac Co., 8 Peters, 280.
Curran v. State of Arkansas, 15 How., 310.
The second question on which the judges differed covers
more ground than the first question.
The declaration states and the demurrer admits an election
and, vote in favor of subscription in March, 1849, before the
new Constitution. The question is, whether, by virtue of the
act of incorporation and the amendment, and the election, the
railroad company acquired such right to the subscription as
would be protected by the Constitution of the United States.
We submit that this question only differs from the first
question in being, if anything, stronger than the first in favor
of the plaintiffs. In the first, a mere right, dependent on a
certain discretion, is claimed. In this a right is claimed, so
perfected that nothing remained but the discharge of a ministerial duty.
The law is plain: "And if a majority of the votes given
shall be in favor of subscription, the county board of said
county shall subscribe."
See. 2, act Jan. 15, 1849.
There is no discretion. There is only a duty; and this, by
the law of Indiana, may be enforced by mandamus. Writs
of mandate issue "to compel the performance of an act which
the law specially enjoins."
Section 739.
And "obedience to such writs may be enforced by attachment, and fine or imprisonment, or both."
Sec. 745, 2 Rev. Stat., 197, 198.
Hence, when the new Constitution took effect, there was an
absolute vested right in the company to $30,000 subscription
from the county of Daviess, to be paid in bonds of a certain
description; and we submit, that this right is a matter of contract, secured by the Constitution of the United States.
Planters' Bank v. Sharp, 6 How., 301.
Slack et al. v. Lex. and Maysville Railroad Co., 13 B.
Munroe, 1.

SUPREME COURT.
Agpintoa ed d. v. Commfsionm~ of the Oounly of Da6iec.
And so in 12 Ben. Munroe, 150..
The counsel for the defendants, after stating the case, made
the following points:
By the statutes of Indiana, county commissioners are bodies
"corporate and politic."
1 R. S. of 1852, p. 225.
The declaration charges them. as "a corporation created by
the State of Indiana." Touching the matter in controversy,
the firit act which they performed-that of subscribing tho
stock--they performed as a corporation, on the 10th September, 1852. And the question is, did the Constitution of 1850
prohibit that act? We say it did. And in support of this
view, we suggest the following considerations;
1. The constitutional prohibition is that "no county shall
subscribe for stock in any incorporated company, unless the
same be paid for at the time of such subscription." The spirit
and intent of this clause seem very plain. Certainly the.design was to prohibit counties from involving their people in
debt for corporation stocks. And it is equally certain that
any subscription by which such a debt is created is within the
prohibition. 'Nor is it less clear that the prohibition applies
to all such debts, whether created directly or indirectly for
such stocks. The mischief intended to be guarded against
was the burdening of the people with taxes to pay debts contracted fdr corporation stocks: And the power to impose that
burden in any manner iq the thing prohibited.
2. Was the stock "paid for at ihe .time of -the subscription ?"
The existence of this suit is an answer to the question.
The phrase, "paid for at the time," in the Constitution,
certainly means more than the making of a promise or obliga"tiori to pay. The writer of the-declaration in question no
doubt intended, in drawing it, to escape the prohibition in the
Constitution by averring that "in payment for the said stock"
the bonds were executed. But this is a mere evasion. The making of the coupon bonds could not be a payment within the
meaning of the Constitution; at most, it was only an engagel

DECEMBER TERM, 1859..

369

Aspinwa et aL. v. Commiassims of the County of Daview.

ment to pay. If the Constitution tolerates such a. mode of
payment as that, its provision is utterly idle. For then every
county may run in debt as much as it pleases for corporation
stock by the mere trick of saying the stock was "paid for at
the time" by making bonds. It is obvious that, upon such a
construction, the very evil intended to be guarded againstburdening the cbunty with debt-would still exist in full
vigor; and that not only the chief object, but the sole object
of the prohibition would be thwarted.
Payment is a technical term, and in strictness implies the
discharge of a debt by the delivery of money. Thus, in pleading, if the defence .is that we have done what we engaged to
do, we allege, -in cases of engagements to do something besides paying money, performance, and in cases of money debts,
we plead payment. Every lawyer knows the distinction between the pleas of performance and payment. The..Supreme
Court of Indiana has held that a plea of payment in anything
else than money is a bad plea.
Sibard v. Patterson, 3 Blackf., 353.
The two words debt and payment always refer to money.
Thus we say we pay a debt, and we perform a contract for the
delivery of property, or to do work.
The" constitutional provision in question requires that the
stock subscribed "be paid for at the time of such subscription." Payment must be simultaneous with the subscription.
In this case, we contend that payment has not yet been made;
but if even in this we were wrong, still it does not appear that
the payment alleged in the declaration was made ."
at the"
time" of the subscription. The averment is, that 'afterwards, .
to wit: on the day and year .aforesaid, in- payment for said
stock," the bonds wereissued.
The "subscription" mentioned in the declaration must, in
terms, have been a money subscription, an engagement to pay
money for stock. . The declaration says, that "in conformity
with the said acts, the 'defendants subscribed for 600 shares,"
&c., "of the value of $30,000." The subscription, then, was"in conformity with the acts." These acts give the form of
VOL. xxir.

24

SUPREME COURT.
.ApnwaZ dt al. v. Commissionsw of the Counmy of Davke.

the subscription. It is found in the fifth section of the charts?
of 1848, thus:
"We, whose names are subscribed hereto, do promise to
pay to the president and directors of the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company the sum of fifty dollars for every share of
stock set opposite to our names, respectively, in such manner,
proportions, and times, as shall be determined by said company
in pursuance of the charter thereof."
This is the only form of subscription given in the two acts.
Section 5 of the charter requires this form to be pursued.
Both by the declaration and the charter, it must be supposed
to have been pursued in the subscription under consideration.
It Was undoubtedly an engagement to pay money "in such
manner, proportions, and times," a&the company should afterwafds determine.
Now, as the engagement was to -pay in money; the delivery
of something else-bonds, for example-could not in any event
amount to payment, unless accepted by the company as payment. It would indeed then be an accord and satisfaction,
and not a payment. But even supposing that it might be regarded as payment, it certainly could not be so considered unless it was received as such by the company. This is the doctrine of Maze v. Miller, 1 Wash. C. 0. R.,328.
olw, the declaration has no averment that the company ever
received these bonds either as payment or in accord and satisfaction. 'It therefore does not appear that payment for the
stock was made "at the time" of the subscription.
The Supreme Court of Indiana has given a construction to
the prohibitory clause in the Indiana Constitution. They say,
"This section, by implication, concedes the power to counties
to take stock, at all events by permission of the Legislature,
in companies chartered to construct works of internal improvements, under the new ConstitUtion, by making cash
payment at the time."
The City of Aurora v. West, 9 Ind. R., 78.
Cash payment is the meaning of the section.
Even if the stock was paid for at the time, still the transac.
tion was clearly in violation of that part of the Indiana Consti.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Aspinwall et al. v. Commissioners ofthe County ofDavies.

tution which declares that no county shall "loan its credit to
any incorporated company."
Undoubtedly the issuance of the bonds in question was
lending the credit of the county to this railroad company.
This was the prime object of the transaction. The bonds were
drawn in the usual form to be put into the market. They
w..ere put into the market, or the plaintiffs would never have
got them; and putting them in market was using the credit of
the county which it had loaned to the company.
3. It is said by the plaintiffs that the vote to take stock,
given by the people of Daviess county before the Constitution
of 1850 took effect, amounts to a contract, the obligation 6f
which is protected by the Federal Constitution against the
prohibition in the Constitution of Indiana.
It is understood that the plaintiffs claim, first, that the vote
amounted to a "contract" within the 10th section of the 1st
article of the Federal Constitution; and, secondly, that the
prohibition in the Indiana Constitution is in violation of the
company's charter, which permits "the county commissioners
of any county through which the railroad passes" to subscribe
stock. Let us examine each of these points:
1. Did the vote of the people amount to a "contract," which.
the Federal Constitution -protects? We say, no; for that vote
,vas not a contract at all. "A contract is an agreement upon
a sufficient consideration to do or not to do a-particular thing."
"An agreement" is the binding assent of both parties. This
aggregatiomendium is indispensable to every contract. In this
sense, the people of the county could not by vote enter into an
"agreement;" for they are not a body politic, and they cannot be sued. It is the board of commissioners that can agree,
not the vcoters. This contract is not alleged to have been made
with the voters, but with the commissioners. Not the voters,
but the commissioners, ate sued. If the vote amounted to a
contract, it was the contract of the voters; and it will be time
enough, when these voters are sued, to inquire whether they
,contracted. It is, for the present, enough to know that the
present defendants, the board of commissioners, never conTacted till after the Constitution of 1850 took effect.

SUPREME COVRT.
Aspinwall et at. v. Commksionw3 of the County of Dadws.

And if the voters had power to make a contract by a vote to
take stock, still their vote could not amount to a contract till
the company also agreed. To a contract there must, of course,
be the assent .f both parties. Now, it does not appear by the
record that the railroad company ever assented to this supposed contract till the time of the subscription, which, as we
have seen, was long after the constitutional prohibition took
effect. As, then, there was no assent by both parties till after
the first day of November, 1851, there could have been no
contract till after that day. And as the making of the contract after that day was prohibited by the Indiana Constitution, there could not have been, in the case, any contract protected by the Federal Constitution.
The case of the Baltimore and Susquehanna Railroad v.
Nebit, 10 Howard, 895, is Tully in our favor on this point.
There the charter provided that the company might take land
for the use of the road, upon having the damages to the owner
assessed by a jury, and upon tender of such damiages to the
owner. Damages had been so assessed, and afterwards, and
before a tender, the Legislature, by law, set aside the assessment. The question was, did this violate E.contract? And
it was held that it did not, because, there having been no tender, no acceptance by the corporation, there was no contract.
And the reasoning of Mr. Justice Daniel, on p. 899, aupra, applies with full force to the present case.
Whether there was a subsisting contract at any time before
November 1, 1851, may be tested by inquiring whether it
could before that time have been enforced against the company. Suppose that before that date, and after the voting, the
county commissioners had insisted on their right to subscribe
pursuant to the vote, and the company had refused to take the
subscription, it is perfectly clear the company would not have
been liable for such refusal. The obvious answer to any
action for so refusing would have been, that the company
had never assented to the proposition presented by the voters

to take stock.
2. Is the prohibition in the Indiana Constitution in violation.
of the company's charter, which provided that county sub-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

878

As~inwall d a2L v. Commissidimr of the County of Davie..

scriptions of stock might be taken ? In other words, since a
charter is in some respects and in some sense a contract, is the
provision in the charter of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad
Company, allowing counties to subscribe for stock therein,
such a contract as is contemplated by the Federal Constitution ?
All the provisions of the charter and its amendments touching county subscriptions are above copied into this brief. These
provisions gave no vested right of property to the company;
they merely bestow on counties the power to subscribe for
stock-a power which, by the general laws of Indiana, did
not before exist. They merely operate as enabling acts-as
acts removing disabilities.
Touching the Constitutional prohibition against the passage
of laws "impairing the obligation of contracts," Mr. Story
says: "That the framers of the Constitution did *not intend
to restrain the States in the regulation of their civil institutions, adopted for internal government, is admitted; and it
has never been so construed."
Story on the Constitution, sec. 1392.
Undoubtedly, the Indiana Legislature might at any time repeal all laws incorporating counties and county boards, and
thus disable them from subscribing for any stock or making
any contract. Nor is it to be for a moment tolerated that the
Legislature of Indiana, by granting a charter to a railroad
company, could have intended to abandon any portion of its
legislative power over the counties of the State.
As every charter stands, all natural persons, not laboring
under disabilities may take stock. But who ever thought
that thd Legislature may not, after the grant of the charter, by
law impose disabilities on some of these natural persons?
Suppose that at the time of the passage of a charter, married
women were by law capable of contracting by subscribing for
stock, can it be said that the Legislature cannot afterwards
by law impose on them the usual disability of femes covert?
So, we think it clear that the Constitution of Indiana might
;mpose on the counties the disability in question.
In the case of the Richmond, &c., Railroad Company r. the

. 94

SUPREME COURT.
AApinwaU el a2. v. Commissioners of thU Couney of Davess.

Louisa Railroad Company, 13 Howaid, 71, where the Legislature of Virginia, in a charter, gave a pledge not to allow
any other railroad to be constructed near the one chartered,
and afterwards another railroad was chartered contrary to that
pledge, it was held that the first charter was not violated
within the meaning of the United States Constitution touching
the obligation of contracts. That was certainly a much
stronger case than the one now under discussion; and as
long as it stands for law, surely the defendant in this case is
safe.
The -case of Covington aid Lexington Railroad Company
v. Kenton County Court,. 12 B. Munroe, 144, is in point on
this question. There the charter of the company had authorized the county court, under a' 5ertain vote of the people, to
subscribe stock. The people had voted for it, but the County
Court refused to subscribe, and in the mean time the Legislature repealed the provision of the charter authorizing county
subscriptions. This repeal was held no violation of a contract, because, "until an actual subscription of the stock was
made, no right to it vested in the company."
- Upon the whole, we submit that it is perfectly clear that
the question propounded in this case, for the decision of the
cburt, ought to be decided in the affirmative.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The ease comes up from the Circuit Court of the Unitea
States-for the district of Indiana.
The suit was brought by the plaintiff against the board of
commissioners of the county of Daviess, to recoyer two instalments of interest accruing upon certain bondo issued by
the board for stock subscribed to the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company; and on the hearing the following questions. arose, upon which the judges of the court divided in
*opinion .
1. Whether, by the said act of incorporation of thb said
railroad-company, and the amendment thereto of January 15,
1849, any such right to county subscriptions vested in said
Pompany as wnild exclude the operation of the new Constitu.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

375

Aspinwall et al. v. Commissloners of the County of Davite.

tion of Indiana, which took effect on the 1st day of November,
1851.
2. Whether, by virtue of the said acts, and of the said election in the declaration set forth, the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company acquired any such right to the subscription
of the defendants as would be protected by the Constitution
of the United States against the new Constitution of Indiana,
which took effect on the 1st day of November, 1851.
The charter of the railroad company, passed February 14,
1848, provides that it should be lawful for the county commissioners through which the road passed to subscribe for
stock on behalf of the county, at any time within five years
after the opening of the books of subscription, if a majority
of the qualified voters of said county, at an annual election,
shall vote for the same.
The amended act of January 15, 1849, made the holding
of the election in the county peremptory on the first Monday
of March (then) next, to determine the question of subscription or not to the stock.
The election was held in pursuance of this law, and a majority of the votes of the county cast in favor of the subscription. This was on the first Monday of March, 1849; and on
the 10th September, 1852, the board of commissioners in
pursuance of the acts and of election aforesaid, subscribed for
six hundred shares of the stock of the railroad company, of
the value of $50 per share, in the whole amounting to $30,000,
and in payment of said stock issued thirty bonds, of $1,000
each, duly signed and sealed by the president of the board
of commissioners, and attested by the auditor of the county,
and delivered the same to the president and directors of the
railroad company. By the terms of the obligations, they
were made payable at the North River Bank in the city of
New York, twenty-five years from date, to the railroad company or bearer, with interest at the rate of six per cent. per
annum, payable annually on the 1st March, at the bank aforesaid, upon the presentation and delivery of the proper coupons
attached, signed by the auditor of the said. county. The
plaintils are the holders and owners of sixty of these coupons

SUPREME COURT.
As inwall et aL. v. Cammissianrs of the County of Daviess.

The new Constitution of the State of Indiana contains the
following provision:
"No county shall subscribe for stock in any incorporated
company, unless the same be paid for at the time of such subscription; nor shall any county loan its credit to any incorporated company, nor borrow money for the purpose of taking
stock in, any such company." See. 6, art. 10, Constitution of
Indiana.
This Constitution took effect on the 1st November, 1851.
The subscription was not made nor bonds issued by the board
of commissioners of tbe county, as we have seen, until the
10th September, 1852. The question therefore arises, whether
the dubscription and bonds, thus made and issued after the
Constitution went into effect, were not forbidden by the 6th
section of the 10th article above cited, and therefore null and
void.
The precise question first presented by the court below,
upon which the judges divided, is as follows:
Whether, by the said act of incorporation of sail ) tilroad
company, and the amendment thereto of January 15, 1849,
any such right to county subscriptions vested in said company
as would exclude the operation of the new Constitution of
Indiana,:which took effect on the 1st November, 1851.
The question admits, at least by implication, that this sixth
section of the Constitution applies to the acts of the board of
commissioners, in making the subscription and issuing the
bonds; but presents the question, whether, at the time it went
into effect, there was not *sucha right to the subscription and
bonds vested in the railroad company as could be upheld.
notwithstanding the constitutional prohibition?
This view is sought to be sustained by force of the 10th
section of the 1st article of the Constitution of the United
States, which provides that no State shall pass any law "impairing the obligation of contracts."
The argument is, that the provisions in the railroad charter
and amendment, conferring power upon the board of commissioners of the county, and making it their duty to subscribe
for stock, and issue bonds therefor, if a majority of the qual-

DECEMBER. TERM, 1869.

877

Apinwal d al. v. Conmmsionersof ae County of Daseu.

ified voters of the county should determine at an election in
favor of the same, import a contract with the railroad company
on behalf of the State, which is protected by the clause referred to in the Constitution of the United States; and hence the
,State constitutional prohibition is inoperative to annul the
subscription or the bonds. That this right to the subscription
and bonds, resting upon a contract in the charter, is unaffected
by any subsequent statute or organic law of the State.
Without stopping to inquire whether or not the power conferred upon the board of commissioners in the charter and
amendments of the railroad company, in the form and with
the conditions therein mentioned, constitutes a contract, the
court is of opinion that, in view of the body upon which the
power is conferred, and of the nature of the power itself, no
such contract existed, if any, as is contemplated by this clause
of the Federal Constitution. The power or authority contained in the charter, and out of which the right in question
is claimed to arise, is conferred upon the county, a public
corporation or civil institution of government, and upon public officers employed in administering its laws; and the power
or authority itself concerns this body in its public political
capacity.'
Chief Justice Marshall observed, in Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, (4 Wh., 627,) that the word contract, in its broadest sense, would comprehend the political relations between
the Government and its citizens; would extend to offices held
within a State for State purposes, and to many of those laws
concerning civil institutions, which must change with circumstances and be modified by ordinary legislation, which deeply
concern the public, and which, to preserve good government,
the public judgment must control. But, he observes, the
framers of the Constitution did not intend to restrain the
States in the regulation of their civil institutions adopted for
internal government, and that the instrument they have given
us is not to be so construed, (p.629.) And Mr. Justice Washington observed, in the same case, (p. 663,) in respect to public corporations, which exist only for public purposes, such as
towns, cities, &c., the Legislature may, under proper limitations,

SUPREME COURT.
AgihwaZ d at. v. Commissionffs of tUe Count of Davbesa.
change, modify, enlarge, or restrain them; securing, however,
the property for the use of those for whom, and at whose ezpense, it was purchased. (See also pages 693, 694.)
It would be difficult to mention a subject of legislation of
more public concern, or in a greater degree affecting the good
government of the county, than that involved in the present
inquiry. The power conferred upon the board of commissioners by the provisions in the charter, among other things,
embraced the power of taxation, this being the ultimate resort
of paying both the principal and interest of the debt to be incurred in the subscription and issuing of the bonds.
The second question presented, upon which the judges differed, is as follows:
Whether, by virtue of said acts, and of the said election in
the declaration set forth) the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad
Company acquired any such right to the subscription of the
defendants as would be protected.by the Constitution of the
United States against the new Constitution of Indiana, which
took effect the 1st November, 1851.
The acts of 1848 and 1849, already referred to, made it the
duty of the board of commissioners to subscribe for the stock,
if a majority of the qualified voters at an election determined
in favor of the subscription.
The election took place on the first Monday of March, 1849,
when a majority of the votes was cast for the subscription.
The Constitution of Indiana took effect 1st November, 1851.
But the subscription was not made till the 10th September,
1852, and the bonds were issued after this date. It is insisted
that the contract of subscription became complete when, at
the election, a majority of the votes was cast in its favor, and
did not require the form of a subscription on the books for the
stock of the railroad company to make it obligatory upon the
parties; and which, if true, it is agreed the contract would be
protected within the Constitution of the United States, as it
would then have been complete before the constitutional probibition of Indiana. But the court is unable to concur in this
view. It holds, that a subscription was necessary to create a
oontract binding upon the county, on one side, to take the

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

379

Aapinwall t ad.v. Commaionera of the Count of Davks.

stock and pay in the bonds; and upon the other, to transfez
the stock, and receive the bonds for the same. Until the'subscription is made, the contract is unexecuted, and obligatory
upon neither party.
We have arrived at the conclusion that both of the questions
presented to us by the court below must be answered in the
negative with some reluctance, as, for aught that appears -in
the case, the subscription to the stock by the board of commissioners was made and the bonds issued in.good faith to the
railroad company, and also sold by it, and purchased by the
plaintiff in confidence of their validity; but, after the best
consideration the court has been able to give the case, it has
been compelled to hold, for the reasons above stated, that the
subscription was made, and the bonds issued, in violation of
the Constitution of Indiana, and therefore without authority,
and void.
We have not been able to find that the courts of Indiana
have passed upon this clause of their Constitution, and have,
therefore, been obliged to expound it with the best lights before us. We should have felt very much relieved, if a construction had been given to it by the judicial authorities of the
State, and have readily followed it.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
district of Indiana, and on the points or questions on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion agreeably
to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the
opinion of this court:
1. That by the act of incorporation of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company of the 14th February, 1848, and the
amendment thereto of January 15tb, 1849, no such right to
county subscriptions vested in said company as excluded the
operation of the new Constitution of Indiana, which took
effect on the 1st day of November, 1851.

SUPREME COURT
Ogilvie at at. v. Xiwz lh~rance Co. eg

2. That by the virtue of the said :acts, and of the said
election in the declaration set forth, the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company acquired no such right to the subscription
of the defendants as would be protected by the Constitution
of the United States against the new Constitution of Indiana,
which took effect on the 1st day of November, 1851. 'Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

AnAm OGILVIE AND) OTHERS, .APPELLANTS, -v. Tim, Ki~ox

Insu-

RANCE COMxPANY, LEVI SPARKS, AND OTHERS.
In a bill by judgment creditors against an incorporated insurance company and
its stockholders, to compel the latter to pay up the balance due on their eav-

eial subscriptions to the stock, they cannot be allowed to defend themselven
by an'allegation that their subscriptions were obtained by freud end misrepre-

sentation of the agent vf the company.
It is too late, after the investment is found to be unprofitable, and debts are in.
* curred, for stockholders to withdraw their subscriptions, under such a pretence
or plea.
It is not a sufficient objection to the bill, for want of proper partiesi,-that l the
creditors or stockholders are not sued. If necessary, the court may, at the
its azzeta
suggestion of either party that the corporation is insolvent, admini
by a receiver, and thus collect all the subscriptions or debts to the corporation.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
It -was a bill filed on the equity side of the court, by Ogilvie,
Angle, & Co., traders iu partnership in Iowa, together with
twelve other persons, citizens of Missouri, Ohi6, and Michigan, against the Knox Insurance Company, and against Levi
"Spa'rksand thirty-six other persons, subscribers to the capital
stock of the company. Being a creditor's bill, filed by the
complainants and such other creditors as might make themselves parties, thirty-two other creditors came in and made
themselves parties to the suit. • The bill alleged that the complainants had recovered divers judgments against thd insu.
vance company, upon which executions had issued, the return

