SUPREMN COURT.
United States v. Vallejo.

The other documents-the grant and certificate of approvalcame from the hands of the claimant. No record of them was
found among the Mexican archives or in any book, nor is
there any evidence of possession or occupation deserving
notice or consideration.
The case falls within the principles and is governed by the
views of the court in the case of the United States v. Teschmaker and others, decided at this tbrm. Besides the suspicious character of the grant, it appears to be wholly destitute
of meri.

The decree below reversed, and the case remanded for further evidence.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. MAiIAO G. VAL~wo.
Where neither the grant of land in California, nor the certificate of approval by
the Departmental Assembly, are found among the Mexican archives, nor tho
record of them upon any book of records, but both papers came from thbo
hands of the claimants, the case will be remanded for further evidence.

Tuis was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California. It was similar,
in many of its circumstances, to the two preceding cases.
The state of the title is set forth in the argument of the Atto,;uey General.
It was argued by the Attorney General and Mr. Stanton for
the United States, and by Mr. Phillips for the appellee.
The Attorney General thus explained the title:
This is a claim for a tract of land called Yulupa, containing
three square leagues, more or less. The claim rests upon an
alleged grant by Governor Micheltorena to Miguel Alvarado,
dated November 23, 1844. The claim was rejected by the
board, but confirmed by the District Court. In support of
this claim, a paper, purporting to be a "titulo" is produced,
signed, "Manuel Micheltorena," and attested by "Francisco

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United States v. Valkjo.

Arce, Secretary Int. It is accompanied by no expediente,
nor any record evidence. No petition, 'reference, report, de.
cree of coilcession, or other official act prior to the grart,
appears. The attesting witness was not called. The only
proof of execution is the testimony of Jose de la Rosa as to
the handwriting of Micheltorenu and Arce. But another
paper is produced by the claimant, bearing the names of Pico
and 0orvarubias, and purporting to be a certificate that the
grant was confirmed on the 18th of February, 1845, by the
Departmental Assembly. But there is no proof of the authenticity of this paper, save the testimony of Jose de Ia Rosa as to
the handwriting of Pico, the Governor, and Corvarublas, the
attesting secretary. Neither of them was cal led.
The usual effort is made to supply "thedefect of legal proof
by testimony of occupation-and possession.
There is no expediente on file. The grant is not found in
Jimeno's Index. The claim rests upon the production of two
papers and proof of handwriting. It is not supported by any
legal evidence requisite to establish a valid claim.
The following specific objections are made to confirmation:
1. No expediente or official record of the proceedings required by the Mexican laws in granting lands is produced,
nor any record evidence whatever.
2. The law required the "ttuZlo" to be authenticated by the
secretary of the Department. Jimeno was the secretary;
and iffrom any cause, Arce acted as secretary ad interim, the
fact should have been shown, and he should have been called
to prov the execution of the instrument by the Governor.
3. Handwriting is secondary evidence, and competent only
when, from the nature of the case, primary evidence by.the
attesting witness cannot be obtained.
4. The paper bearing the names of Pico and Corvarubias is
nothing more than a-private certificate by those persons. No
proof is made as to when it was given, and it affords no evidence of the action of the Departmental Assembly, which
should be shown by their own journal. The journal of the
Assembly for 1845 shows no session on the 18th of February,
1845, the day that the certificate states the confirmation to
VOL. XXI.

27

SUPREME COURT.
United Statesv. ralleo.

have been made. If there was a session on that day, the fact
might be, and should have been, proved.
5. If this grant were genuine, it would have appeared regular', numbered and entered in Jimeno's index, with a corresponding expediente, on file in the archives. It would also
have been noted in the Toma de Razon of that year, but there
is no mention of it. Every claimant is bound to establish.
his claim by legal proof, in conformity .with the Mexican
laws and usages in granting lands. The whole liurden of
proof i upon him; and unless that burden is fully discharged,
he has no right to a decree of confirmation. The absence of
an expediente, or any record evidence of the grant, is unaccounted for. Nhio excuse is shown or ground laid for secondary
evidence. The confirmation by the District Court affords no
presumption- in favor of the claim, for an appeal to the Supreme Court was allowed because of errors that might be
committed in the court below; and this case was confirmed
before any organized system of fabricating land grants in
California had become known. Until the decree of the Supreme Court in Cambuston's case, very little regard was paid
to the evidence offered in support of private land claims, and
confirmations were made without scrutiny, and sometimes
against the manifest impression of the court that the claim
was fabricated and false.
For the reasons that have been mentioned, and apparent
upon this record, it is submitted that the claim should not be
confirmed.
Mr. Pldllips stated the title and evidence as follows:
The present claimant derives his title under a deed of warranty iu consideration of $3,000 from Miguel Alvarado, dated
20th F'ebruary, 1849, for "three sitios do ganado mayor, which
I have granted to me bythe Departmental Government of
this territory, approved by the Assembly of the same."
Th~is deed is witnessed by Castenada and Salvador Vallejo,
and is acknowledged before the alcalde on 22d February,
1849.
The title on which confirmation is rested is a grant froni

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Unt

419.

&des v. Val'o.

Micheltorena to Miguel Alvarado, dated at Monterey, 28d
November, 1844.
In this formal grant the following facts *Arerecited:
1. That Alvarado had solicited the land.
2. That the proper measures and examinations had been
made.
3. That the land is shown by the map attached to the expediente.
4. That the intent was to confirm him in the ownership
of the title, which he had- obtained from the Sefior director,
&c., Don Mariano Vallejo.
If the court is satisfied that this grant is genuine, then these
facts are established by their recital.
Besides the grant, there is the approval of the Departmental
Assembly, signed by Pio Pico and Jos6 M. Corvarubias.
These were produced as original documents, and the signatures of all the parties proved.
lNo objection can be made in this court that they were not
proved by competent evidence.
"No objection shall be hereafter allowed to be taken to the
admissibility of any deposition, deed, grant, or other exhibit
found in the record as evidence, unless objection was taken in
the court below, and entered of record.- (13th Rule.)
In addition to this proof of genuineness, we have the evidence of Caetano Juarez, who was the alcalde of the district,
that he heard of the grant in 1844.
Salvador Vallejo testifies that, "in 1844 or 1845, Miguel
Alvarado made a petition to the Government for the rancho
Yulupa, and received a grant for it; I knew of it at the time."
Julio Carillo says he first heard of the grant, he "thinks,
in 1845; I heard of it from some of the neighbors, and he told
.ue himself."
Still stronger eviaei.2 as to the verity of this transaction is
to be found in the proof of occupation and improvement.
Jos6 de la Rosa: "Miguel Alvarado first occupied it in
1843 or 1844. He had a house on it, and cultivated a small
garden. le also had a corral on it, and over 100 cattle and
hoises. The house is still stading Ii: 1849, lie sold i to

SUPREME CO'RT.
MWee S&ate v. Mal~o.

General Vallejo, who has occupied it since with cattle and
horses."
Jasper 0. Farrell: "In 1847 or 1848, one Roulette held s
mill site and a portion of red-wood land under M. G. Vallejo;
in 1848 or 1849, to the best of my belief, I saw the mill-dam
and mill built by him."
Julio Carillo: Alvarado "commenced the occupation thereof in 1842 or 1843. At this time he built a house on the place;
a corral. He had cattle and horses on it; hQ had a small field
enclosed; he continued to occupy the land until the time he
sold to the present claimant, which, I believe, waz in 1848 or
1849. The present claimant has since that time, and now
does, occupy said land."
Caetano Juarez: "I have heard that Alvarado has had possession of it ever since (1844.) In 1845, he had a house and
corral on the place."
Salvador Vallejo: "At that time Alvarado had possession
(1844 or 18415.) Since that time I do not ]know who has had
possession of it. I know Alvarado sold it."
The genuineness of the title was established to the satisfaction oi the board of commissioners, who rejected the claim,
on the ground that the quantity of la~hd was, not sufficiently
designated.
The decree of Judge Hoffman shows that this defect was
cured by the evidence of other witnesses, "whose testimony,
taken on appeal, in our opinion, establishes the identity of the
laud granted to Alvarado, and removes the only objection
urged to a confirmation of the claim."
The absence of record evidence, either in the archives or in
Jimeno's index, can amount to no more than cause of sus.
picion. It cannot of itself invalidate the title.
The attempt to raise the question as to the bona tides of the
grant is condemned by the decision of this court.
"It has been uigcd, this grant is a fictitious one, &c. Our
answer to this suggestion is, that no objection to the bona
tides of the grant was taken before either of the. tribunals betow, where it should have beenimade, '"relied on by the Government, so as to have givcn the con'mplaaiiatsan opportunity

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

421

United States v. VaF'o.

to have met it. To permit it to be taken in the appellate
court for the first time, where there is no opportunity for
explanation, would be a surprise upon them of which they
may justly complain."
Larkirt's case, 18 How., 561.
Mr. Phillips proceeded to argue that possession was the
strongest proof of title, because title always followed possession without fee or reward being required. If there was possession and no title, it would be an exceptional case. We
have proved possession in Alvarado from 1842-'43 to 1849,
when he sold. This court must go. by the record; four witnesses prove possession, and the United. States do not deny
this evidence. If the auithority of the Governor be denied,
the United States ought to show that he had no authority, and
iot require us to prove that it existed.

Mr. Stanton replied to the argument of possession, that if
the grant was valid, the party would have had judicial possession. The law required this. Sometimes this court has excised the absence ofjudicial possession, as in Fremont's case;
but there is no excuse here. The rule requiring a point to be
taken below before it can be argued here, does not apply to
these Qalifornia cases.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United. Stafes for the northern district of California.
The appellee, Vallejo, presented to the board of land commissioners a claim for three square leagues of land, known by
the name of Yulupa, situate in the county of Sonoma, Call.
fornia, having derived his title from Miguel Alvarado, the
original grantee.
The documentary e'idence of the title is: 1st. A grant in
ber, 1844, purporting
due form, dated Monterey, 23d rNo
to be signed by Micheltorena, Governor, and Francisco Arce.
secretary, with a memorandum by the secretary: "Note has'
been made of this title in the proper book;" and 2d. A certfcate of approval by the Departmental Assembly, bearing dat

sullEME COURT.
Thornpson et al. v. Lewsee of Carrollel al.

at the city of Los Angeles, 18th February, 1845, signed by
Pio Pico, Governor, and Jose Ml. Corvarubias, secretary.
Neither the grant nor the certificate of approval has been
found among the Mexican archives, nor the record of them
upon any book of records. Both papers came from the hands
of the claimant. The genuineness or the title depend; upon
proof of the official signatures, and some evidence of possesSion.
The board rejected the claim; but on appeal to the District

Court, and the production of further proof of possession, that
court affirmed it.
The case fhlls within the views of the court in the United
States v.* Tesebmaker and others, decided this term.
Decree reversed, and the case remanded for further evidence.

EMIA

B. C. THOMPSON AND IILLIAM G. W. WHITE, PLAINERRoR, V. RICHARD ROE, EX DEM JANB CARROLL, MA-

TIFFS IN

RIA C. FITZHUGH, ANNE C. CARROLL, SARAH NICHOLSON, REBECCA CARROLL, HENRY MAY BRENT, DANIEL I
AND CATHARINE D.

FITZHUGH

Ins WIFE., DEVISEES OF DANXEL CARROLL

OF DUDDIkGTON, DECEASED.
Under the act to incorporate the city of Washington, passed on the 15th of May,
1820, amended by the act of 1824, it is not a condition to the validity of the
sale of unimproved lands for taxes, that the personal estate of the owner should
have been exhausted by distress.
The ordinances of the corporation cannot increase or vary the power given by
the acts of Congress, nor impose any terms or conditions which can affect the
validity of a sale made within the authority conferred by the statute.

Tris case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
The facts of the case and instruction given by the Circuit
Court are stteod in the opinion of the court.
itwas argued by Mr. Carlisle, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr. Badger, for the plaintiffi in error, who claimed under

