DECEM1BER TERM, 1859.

89

United Statei v. Gailbraith et aZ.

from the recital in the bond and the citation and service. The
case was, indeed, even stronger for the amendment than this,
for counsel appeared in this court for each of the parties, and
offered to amend by consent. Yet the court refused to amend,
upor. the ground that consent of parties -buld not give jurisdiction, where it was not given by law and legal process. But
here there is no appearance for the parties who are named as
plaintiffs in the writ of error; and if we order the amendment,
we should make them defendants in a suit in which they are
not bound to appear in that character. It is the duty of the
party who desires to bring a case before this court, to see that
proper and legal process is sued out for that purpose; and if
he fails to do so, he has no right to treat the defect as a mere
clerical error, for which he is not to be held responsible.
The opinion in the case of Hines v. Papin, above referred
to, was delivered orally, and not reduced to writing, and consequently, does not appear in the printed reports. The court
have therefore deemed it advisable to state now the practice
and doctrine of the court in this respect, in order that suitors
may be aware of the necessity of paying proper attention to
the process they issue, and not subject themselves to costs and
delay by errors which a clerk, in the hurry and pressure of
otherbusiness, will unavoidably sometimes commit.
The writ of error must therefore, upon the motion before
the court, be dismissed, as it cannot be amended.

STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JAms D. GALBBAITH, JOHN
SINE, DAViD T. BAYLEY, AND RIcHARD H. STANTON.

T z UNwI

Where the clear weight of the proof is against the possession or occupation by
the grantee of land in California, the date of the grant was altered without
any explanation of the alteration, and the genuineness of the signature of the
Governor to a certificate of approval of the Departmental Assembly doubted,
this court will reverse the decree of the court below confirming the claim, and
remit it for further evidence and examination.

This was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.

SUPREME COURT.

The history and nature of the cae are stated in the opinion
of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stmion and Mr. Git for the United
States, and Mr. Hqpur and Mi. Brent for the defendants in
error.
The points and arguments which referred to many bmnchez
of the case, such as possession, &c., need not be stated. The
following are the views which were taken of the alteration of
the date of the grant.
Mr. Gillet's second point was this:
Where a party alters a written instrument with the intention
of changing its character and effect, he destroys it, so that it
canInh've no legal effect.
the present case, the date of the original grant is
shown
to have been changed from the 12th of June to the 12th of
February, 1846. The granfa made as late as June of that
year were the subject of question before the board and court.
Those at an earlier date were not the subjects of so much sus.
picion. The grant itself states it was delivered to Padilla at
the time when made. It is not shown to have been in othei
hands before it was filed in the cause. Either'he or the claimants must have had it in their possession all the time. When
produced, it had been altered. Padilla, or some one holding
under him, must have made the alteration, and the alteration
was material. This destroys its effect. The object of thd
alteration is apparent. Its materiality in Padilla's estimation
cannot be questioned. He wished to make his grant date so
far back as to be free from suspicion or question.
But, whether material or not, if the alteration was made by
Padilla, or any one claiming under the grant, it is v6id. If
altered by a stranger, if material, it vitiates the instrument.
It Cannot be doubted that the alteration ws made by Padilla, or some one claiming under the grant, as it went into
his possession and remained with him and his grantees until
filed before the land commissioners

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

91

United Stem v. GaThtait& d aZ.

The effect of alterations of deeds has been settled in the following cases:
In Henman v. Dickinson, (5 Bing., 188,) itwas held, "Where
a party sues on an instrument which on the face of it appears
to have been altered, it is for him to show that the alteration
has not been improperly made."
This the claimants did not attempt to show in the case at bar.
In Lewis v. Payn, (8 Cowen, 71,) it was held that "the
alteration of a deed by one claiming a benefit under it, avoids
it so far as respects any remedy upon it, and semb, this is so,
whether the alteration be material, or a part wholly immaterial."
"The doctrine in Cro., Car., and Nels., Ab., seems to be
sound, that where an estate cannot have existence but by
deed, and the deed creating it is fraudulently destroyed by the
party possessing the estate, the deed is void as to any remedy
'in favor of the fraudulent party, and the estate which he derived ulider it is gone." In Jackson v. Molin, (15 Johns. R., 293, p. 297,) it-was held,
"If the obligee himself alters the deed, although it be in words
not material, the deed is void."
In Prevost v. Gratz, (1 Pet. C. C. R., 364,) it was held, "An
erasure in a deed, not shown to have been made before execution, is sufficient to avoid it upon a plea of non etfactum. The
presumption in such a case. is, that the alteration was made
after the execution of the deed."
In Jackson v. Osborn, (2 Wen., 555, p. 559,) it was held,
that where there was an erasure or interlineation in a deed,
the presumption was that it was made after execution, and it
devolved upon the party claiming under it to explain, by evidence, if he insisted that it was made before execution.
The elementary writers all concur in the principles of the,
above cases.
It follows, that the grant in this case is void, and cannot lay
the foundation of a recovery.
The counsel for the appellees replied to this argument a,
follows:

SUPREME COURT.
United StaWe v. Galbraithet a.

It is also objected that the date of the grant has been altered
from June 12, 1846, to February 12, 1846.
The motive of this is not easy to understand. The Caliibrnians are a simple, ignorant people. The Supreme Court of
the State told them their titles would not support an action,
either for the possession or the property; the squatters, who
knew Spanish, kindly interpreted the judgment of the court;
it merely took the land from the Californians, and gave it to
them, the squatters.
Is it strange, in such perplexity, that these simpletons should
misbehave and play the fool ? Sometimes they have not presented their titles at all; sometimes, with two titles, they have
only presented one; and repeatedly ranches have been finally
confirmed-to them, on which, in their despair, they themselves
had taken up pre-emptions and made oath that the land was
public, and uncovered by any private claim. This alteration
has no doubt occurred in some such way; but whatever the
n0de, it is immaterial in law.
The rule on the subject of alterations is this: where an
estate which may exist without deed (as a fee simple in land)
is conveyed by deed, then the alteration, even although material and fraudulent, destroys the deed, but not the estate.
There are many cases to this effect, but a very strong one is
the case of Lewis v. Payn, 8 Cowan, 71.
Payn, the defendant, distrained for rent; Lewis, the plaintifF, replevied; the defendant avowed the taling, and justified
under a lease, in which he, Payn, who had written the lease,
had afterwards fraudulently inserted an additional covenant to
bis "own advantage. A counterpart to this lease was also executed and put in evidence. On this case, the court, Savage,
Ch. J., held: "That where an estate cannot have existence but
by deed, and the deed creating the estate is fraudulently destroyed by the party possessing the estate, the deed is void as
to any remedy in favor of the frauidulent party, and the estate
which he derived under it is gone. But where an estate which
may exist without deed (for instance, a fee simple in lands) is
conveyed by deed, then the fraudulent alteration or cancelling
of-the deed destroys the deed, but not the estate. If the deed

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United

ates v.Gabraitlhet al.

be a quit-claim, the party loses nothing; if it contain covenants, he loses all right to an action on these; but the title is
not divested. A rent charge can be created in no other manner than by deed, and the fraudulent alteration destroys both
the deed and the estate.
"In this case, however, there are two leases, one for each
party, both alike, lnd both are properly originals, as thtyare
each executed by both patties; so that there was sufficient
evidence to have authorized a recovery by the defendant without the production of the deed in his possession, unless his
estate is gone in consequence of the'alteration made by him
in the copy of the lease, which was in his possession. Had
there been but one lease, and had that been altered by Payin,
as the copy in his possession was, all the estate which he takes
by it would be forfeited and gone. The alteration avoids that
deed, so far as he derives a benefit under it. But the estate is
not destroyed, as there is still a valid deed in the possession
of Lewis, which secures to him the possession of the estate

granted." 75, 76.
Here two original grants were executed at the same time;
one was delivered to the grantee, and one was retained by the
Government. Both of these were put in evidence; and though
one be void, the other is sufficient to show that the estate
passed.
To like effect, see Jackson v. Gould, 7 Wend., 364. There
the plaintiff offered, first, a record of a deed, under which he
claimed in ejectment, and afterwards the deed itself, which
appeared to have several erasures of the word junior. The
court, citing with approbation the case of Lewis v. Payn, say:
"The destruct n of the deed would not have divested the estate, neither did the erasure of part of the lessor's name. The
deed was good when executed, and conveyed to the grantee
the title."
Sie also Hatch v. Hatch, 9 Mass., top pages 293, 297, 298,
where a deed altered by the consent of the defendant, who
claimed under it, was read in evidence, and made the basis of
a successful defence in ejectment. Also, Doe.v. Hirst, 3 Star
kie's Rep., 60.

SUPREM E COURT.

Hennick v. Malin, 22 Wend., 891, decides that no subse.
quent alteration of a deed by the grantee, in a material or immaterial point, will avoid the deed, where the controversy relates to a title to land, and the Rtle once vested under the
deed in the grantee. In other wtrds,.the title once vested will
not revert by the alteration, cancellation, or destruction, of the
muniment of title, whatever may be the law of defence against
the recovery on a personal contract.
See, also, 3 Preston's Abstracts, 103.
2 H. Black's, 263.
Bul. N. P., 267. '

Applying this principle to the facts of this case, it will be
seen that the alteration of the month of the grant, from June
to February, 1846, must have been made in the original grant.
after it was recorded by the Mexican authorities, because there
is no such alteration in the copy certified from the surveyor
general's office.
The original grant, then, has this manifest alteration. If
done for a fraudulent purpose, it is clearly immaterial in point
of law, and the fraud could easily be detected, by reference to
the record of the grant, and the date of the petition and antecedent documents.
There isno evidence to show by whom or when the dat.
was altered.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The appellees, who derived their title from Juan W. Padilla,
tbe original grantee, presented their claim before the board of
land commissioners in 1852, for five square leagues of land
known by the name of Bolsa de Tomales, situate in the county
of Sonoma, California. The board, after hearing the proofQ,
debreed in favor of the claim, which, on appeal to the district
judge, was affirmed.
;,Tli documentary evidence of the title includes a petition to
kheiG6vernor for the tract, dated at Monterey, May 14th, 1846.
aceC inpauied with a certificate of Manuel Castro, prefect, that

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United Statm v. Galbraith et aZ.

the land was vacant and grantable, dated same place, 10th
same month; a marginal reference for information by the
Governor, Pio Pico, dated Los Angeles, 20th May, 1846; a
note of concession, dafed same place, 12th June, 1846; and a
formal title, dated same time and place, both signed by the
Governor, and J. M. Moreno, Secretary ad interim.
Proof was given of the signatures of the Governor and Secretary, and that these papers were found among the Mexican
archives,.which. had been transferred to the custody of the
surveyor general of the United States for California.
The original grant of the formal title to the grantee was
given in evidence by the claimants, dated Los Angeles, 12th
February, 1846; also, a certificate of the Governor and Secretary, of the approval on the 12th June by the Departmental
Assembly, dated l4th"June, 1846.
Some attempt was made to prove possession and occupation
ny Padilla before and since the date of the grant, which were
denied by the Government The -clearweight of the proof in
the case is against any possession or occupation. The two
witnesses in support of it, aside from Padilla, clearly confounded the possession of the ranch of Padilla, called the Roblar de
la Mseria, with that of the BoLsa de Tomales, bot" of which
are in the same section of country. Padilla states that he had
possession of the land in 1844; built on it in that year; that
he cultivated the land, and had cattle on it from that time
until he sold it to Molena and Berreyesa, in the latter part of
the year 1848, or beginning of the year 1849. In this he is
expressly contradicted by some half a dozen witnesses, some
of whom cannot be mistaken as to the facts. It appears, from
the evidence, that Padilla, at the breaking out of the disturbances in the early par' of 1846, adhered to the Mexican Government, and was charged with having been concerned in
killing some Americans in the fore part of that year; was
pursued by an American force, and fled from that part of the
country, and'did not return until after the war. (See also the
testimony of Padilla in the case of the claim of Josefa de Haro
and others, No. 101, before the board of commissioners; and
see his grant of Roblar de la Mseria, 25th November, 1845.)

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of.Wsburgh v. Ned2

al.

It is admitted that the original grant of the title in form,
which was in the hands of the claimants, has been altered so
as to bear date the 12th February, instead of the 12th June,
1846. No explanation was given of the alteration, though it
was apparent on the face of the paper.
The genuineness of the signature of the Governor, Pio Pico,
to the certificate of the approval of the Departmental Assembly, was doubted by the board of commissioners.
The board say, after alluding to the alteration of the date of
the grant, "there are many things connected with the claim
which, under the conclusion at which the commission has
arrived, were not altogether satisfactory. The time when the
grant was made, only a few days before the Americans took
possession -of the country, the evident and palpable attempt to
alter the date so as to make it appear several months anterior
to the time when it was issued, and the manifest want of similarity in the signatures of Pio Pico to the papers of approval,
with the usual mode of signing his name, are circumstances
which greatly detract from the good faith of the claim. The
evidence, however, they say, makes out a prima facie case,
which, in the absence of any rebutting testimony, entitles the
petitioners to a decree of confirmation."
The court is of opinion that, in consideration of the doubtful character of the claim, and entire want of any merits upon
the testimony, the decree of the court below should be reversed, and the case remitted for further evidence and examination.

THE BANK OP PITTSBURGH, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN S.
NEAL AND REUBEN E. NEAL.
A commercial house sent to a correspondent eight bills of exchange, four purporting to be the first and the other four the second of exchange, and the
whole eight accepted on their face by that commercial house, and each of the
four made payable to the order of their correspondent, but in blank as to the
names of the drawers, and the address of the drawees, and as to date and
amount and time and place of payment.
The correspondent filled up and had discounted the four which were the first of
exchange, which were not invo !ed in the present suit.

