SUPREME COURT.
Moclicken,'

xcutoa v. Perim

that officer, and by him referred for information, as in othey
cases.
"If this claim is to be confirmed, every provisional license
or permission temporarily to occupy land must be held to constitute an equitable title, provided the claimant has availed
himself of the permission-a ruling which would astonish no
one more than the old inhabitants of the country, by whom
the importance of obtaining a ' title' from the Governor was
well understood.
"For aught we know, Pio Pico, when the petition was subsequently presented, found it inexpedient to grant the land;
and if the claimant, under a mere permission to occupy it with
his cattle, has built a house upon it, and for two years omitted
any effort to procure a title, he must attribute the loss of the
land to his own neglect."
The board of commissioners unanimously rejected the claim,
from whose decision Garcia, the claimant, appealed to the District Court. There the judgment of the board was reversed,
on a division of opinion, and a decree entered, confirming the
claim, probably with a view-of transmitting the cause to this
court f6r final determination.
For the reasons above statel it is ordered that the decree
of the District Court be reversed. And the court below is
directed to dismiss the petition; for which purpose, the cause
is remanded.

CHARLES McMxC'x's EXEcuTORS, VIz: WnmZAM CRosMM,
FREmaN G.CAEY mwWn
M. F. Mm~sox, v. FrwirnLIN PEntIN.
Where a bill of review was filed, alleging that the decree was obtained by fiud,
which allegations were denied in the answer, and it appeared by the evidence
that the complainant had lost the suit by his omn neglec, the bill of reviev
was properly dismissed by the court below7.

Tins was an appeal from the -Circuit Court of +he Units
States for the eastern district of Louisiana. -

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Hc.3licentamecors v. Afrixg.

The case was twice before this court, and is reported in 18
Howard, 507, and 20 Howard, 133.
The facts of the present case are stated in the opinion of the
court..
It was submitted on printed briefs by Mr. Benjamin for the.
appellants, and by Mr. Day and Mr.Perin for the appellee.
Mr. Benjamin said:
The appellant has died since taking his appeal, and the
executors who represent him in this cause have not deemed
themselves authorized to abandon the appeal, but have instructed the undersigned to submit it for the decision of the
court.
The undersigned counsel therefore respectfully submits the
cause for decision, but, on examination of the record, does not
deem it his duty to attempt by argument to show the existence of any error in the decree appealed from, confident that
if ,such exist, it will be corrected by the decision of this court.
The arguments on behalf of the appellee need not be reported.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The bill filed by McMicken in the court below is in the
nature of a bill of review, praying relief from a decree obtained against him by Perin in a previous suit by means of
fraud and imposition.
The suit by Perin charged McMicken with holding, in trust
for his use, a valuable sugar plantation, situate in the parish
of East Baton Rouge, on the Mississippi river, in tli
.State of
Louisiana; and sought a discharge of the trust and a conveyance of the title to the complainant.
The bill of review sets forth as the ground of fraud in the
decree, that after the commencement of the former suit and
scrvicp of the subpcena on MeMicken, in an interview with

SUPREME COURT.
McMwkena .Ezecutora v. P~rin

Perin on the subject .of the suit, he agreed to discontinue it,
and prosecute the same no further; upon which understanding the defendant acted, and discharged the solicitor retained
to defend it, and omitted altogether any defence; and that in
violation of the agreemept1 and in fraud of the rights of the
defendant, he, Perin, proceeded with the suit in the absence
and. without the knowledge of the defendant, obtaining Ihe
decree in question by default, declaring the trust, and directing
a conveyance of the plantation.
The bill of review further sets forth that the advances made
by the complainant in th6 purchase of the property, and the
liabilities incurred by way of raising encun~brances on the.
same in securing the title, far exceeded the sum stated by
Perin in his bill, and which he proposed to reimburse and
satisfy, and of all Which he had full knowledge, but which he
fraudulently suppressed and excluded from the decree, which
the complainant is justly entitled to have allowed upon setting
asid, the purchase and declaring the trust for the benefit ofPerin.
. The defendant, in his answer to the bill of review, deniea
specifically the. fraud, charged therein against him; 'denies that

he agreed .to give up the suit, and not further prosecute the
same, or that he gave any assurances to McMicken to that
effect, or which were calculated to mislead or induce him to
withdraw from the defence,. or that any such understanding
existed between .the parties; but, on the contrary, since the
filing of his bill he has, at all times, insisted upon his ighli
as set forth therein, and upon the prosecution of his claim to
the property.
The defendant also denies that the omission to set forth inhis bill any other sums than those allowed in the report.of the
master, and which entered into the decree, were with a view
to an ex parte proceeding in the suit as charged by MeMicken, and denies all fraud or concealment in respect to these
accounts.
The answer of the defendant is directly responsive to the
cargeo in the bill, and relates to facts within 'his knowledge,
iwell-settled prin6iples of pleadidg, must be taken
and, upon

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

285:

.cMaMken's Ekwefors v. Pr~n.

as presenting the true state of the case- unless -overcome by
the proofs. The complainant, in view of this rule, has examined witnesses in support of the allegations, but they have
wholly failed to sustain them.
The bill of Perin against McMicken to enforce the trust
was filed in February, 1851. The subpcnna was served personally in lNovember, 1852. MeMicken resided in the 'State
of Ohio, and the service in the suit could be made only in the
State of Louisiana. The decree pro confesso was entered in
April, 1853, and the final decree in June, 1854. The suit
seems not to have been hurried with any unusual speed to its
final determination.
In February, 1855, a petition was presented to the court
containing, substantially, the facts set forth afterwards in the
bill of review, on behalf ofMeMicken, to s t aside the decree,.
and to peimit him to come in and defend, which, after hear.
ing, was denied. Whereupon an appeal was taken to thiil
court from the decree in the suit, and also from the order refusing to set aside the decree, and which-were affirmed in De.
cember term, 1855, (18 How., 507; 20 ib., 133.)
The present bill was filed for a review of the decree and
order thus affirmed by this court in January, 1857. The case
was heard on pleadings and proofs, and a decree entered dismissing the bill in :November of the same year, and is now before us on appeal.
The bill was dismissed upon the ground that the excuse set
up by the complainant, to wit, the fraud and impositioll of
Perin, for not appearing anl defending the former suit, wa.
fully and completely denied in the answer, and wholly unsupported by the proofs. The failure, therefore, of the defendant
to appear and defend, and his rights in that suit, for aught that
was shown, was attributable to his own neglect and inattention.
The allegations upon which relief in the bill rested, id
upon which alone a rehearing could be granted in the case,
consistent with the established practice of a court of chancery,
were unsustained.
This is familiar doctrine, and is decisive of the case.
The decree of the court below affirmed.

