DECEIMIBER TERM, 1850.

448

In this respect , this case closely resembles the case of United States v. Reading. (18 How., 1.)
I
M, title
The decree of the District AMR I,,
of thd claimant to the land ih ,uestion is hereby confirmed.

Josa MARIA FuENTES V.TE UNITED STATS.
A petition was presented to the board of commissioners in Californa* claiming
the confirmation of a title to land, which petition alleged1. that a grant had been issued by Micheltorena, and delivered in June, 1843.
2. That it was recorded.
3. That it was not to be found in the archives, because the record had been

burned.
4. That the grant wae approved by the Departmental Assembly, but that the
record of such approval had been burned.
6. That therefore the claimant could not produce any evidence that the grant
had been so approved.
The secondary evidence offered does not prove the existence of such records,
nor their destruction. The recital in the grant is not sufficient evidence of

this.
The paper produced by the claimant, purporting to be a grant must therefore
be judged by itsel- There was no evidence that it had been preceded by the
usual formalities, such as a petition, an examination, an inquiry into the
character of the applicant, an order for a survey, a reference to a magistrate
for a report, a transmission of. the grant to the Departmental Assembly, nor
was there an eipediente on file.
Where these requirements do not appear, a presumption arises against the genu.
ineness of the grant, making it a proper subject of inquiry before that fact

can be admitted.
The evidence produced in this case does not establish the genuineness of the

grant.
There is also an absence of all proof that the grant had been delivered to the
grantee, then a minor, or to any one for him. If the grant was genumne, and

not delivered until after the cession of California to thi.United States it would
not give the grantee any right to claim the land.
A recital in the paper or grant, that the pre-requisites had been complied with,
is not sufficient ground for a presumption that they had been observed. The

cas

decided heretofore by this court do not support the position.

These cases examined.
If the conditions imposed by the grant were conditions subsequeu yet ths
grantee allowed years to pass without any attempt to perform them until a
change of circumstances had taken place, which amounts to evidence of an
obandonment.

SUPREME COURT.

THIS was, an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The nature of the title, and evidence in support of it, are
stated and commented on in the opinion of the court, and
iieed not be repeated.
It was argued by Mr. Blair for the appellant, and by .Mr.
Black (Attorney General) for the United States. Mr. .Blair
also filed. a brief by Mr'. rockett, which he adopted s his own.
Mr. Blair contended:
1. That neither the grant itself nor the law fixed any period
within which the grantee was required to take possession.
See Jones's Report, p. 22, and Larkin's case.

2. That the minority of the grantee 'was, perhaps, the reason why the common requirement as to time was not one of
the conditions of the grant, and repels any presumption of an
intention to abandon the claim arising from the delay in occupying the land.
3. That no law, regulation, or custom, forbade grants to
minors, and the court will not undertake to revise the discrelion of the Governor as to the proper persons to receive
grants.
4. That as the grant purports to have been recorded~in the
archives, and it is shown that the book corresponding to the
year in which this grant was made wis destroyed, the case
made comes fully up to the requirements of the Cambuston
case.
5. That as the genuineness of this grant was not .questioned
below, it. cannot be impeached here, even on the testimony in
the record. So the court held in Larkin's case. A fortiori,
the court will not consider the extraneous matter offered by.
the.Attorney General, whether offered as testimony or as historical facts, which, if true, might have been explained, if they
had been offered below.
These points were more* particularly statd in the brief
which MI. Blair adopted, viz:
. That the grant is valid, and ought to be confirmed, not-

DECEMIBERI TEAiM, 1859.

445

F 6entcs v. U tied &tates.

withstanding there was no approval of the Departmental As.
sembly, and no judicial measurement.
United States v. Fremont, 17 How., 560.
United States v. Reading, 18 How., 8.
United States v. Cruz Cervantes, 18 How., 53.
United States v. Vaca, 18 How., 556.
United States v. Larkin, 18 How., 568.
2. The grant was duly recorded, and on the face of the
grant the 6riginal is ordered to be delivered to the grantee,
who now produces it.
3. The proof shows that it was written and recorded in
1843, when, it is conceded, Governor Micheltorena had full
authority to grant lands.
4. The authenticity, date, and recording of the grant, being
clearly established, and the grant itself reciting that the
grantee had petitioned for the land, and that all "the necessary steps and the precautionary proofs required by the laws
and regulations" had been taken, the law will presume that
the Governor had performed his duty in these respects, and
had not exceeded his powers.
United States v. Peralta, 19 How., 847.
United States v. Aredondo, 6 Pet., 729.
United States v. Delassus, 9 Pet., 184.
Minter v. Crommelin, 18 How., 88.
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Pet., 448.
5. This grant had only the usual conditions; and they were
all subsequent conditions, the non-performance of which
would not, ipsofacto, avoid the grant.
6. The fact that the grantee was a minor did not invalidate
the grant. There is nothing in the act of 1824, or the regulations of 1828, restricting the power of the Governor in this
respect. Under the Mexican and civil law, the age of majority W0 3 twenty-five; andthe policy of the colonization laws
was not at variance with a grant of lands to a person under
that age. For aught that appears, a minor might be as
capable as any other of cultivating and improving his lands.
If minors be excluded for want of capacity, the same reason.
ing would exclude old, infirm, anid indigent persons, or females

SUPREME COURT.
FueW v. U7nfd RS.ate.

of feeble capacity, and especially married women. The capacity of the grantee, and his fitness to take the grant, and
the propriety of making it, under all the circumstances, were
precisely the questions submitted to the discretion of the Gov-ernor, and these questions cannot be litigated over again.
7. If it be conceded that the conditions were not fulfilled,
this fact zan raise no presumption of abandonment in this
case. In the edse of Fremont, this court decided, that whilst
the conditions are subsequent, and a failure to perform them,
in the absence of a "denouncement" of the land by another,
will not divest the title, yet that an unreasonable delay in performing the conditions may amount to evidence of abandonment; and that the party is now seeking to resume his ownership, after the lands have become enhanced in value. In the
Fremont case, a failure to perform the conditions was excused,
because of the unsettled state of the country, and the dangers
arising from hostile Indians in that vicinity. In the case at
bar, the country was not only in a revolutionary state from
the date of the grant, until about the period when the Amferican forces took possession of the country, but the grantee
was a minor, and so continued, until the last-named period.
We maintain, that no presumption of abandonment will arise
against a minor, under either the civil or common law.
Under the Spanish law in force in Mexico, the rights of
minors are more fully protected thin even at common law, as
will appear by reference to 1 Domat's Civil Law, page 529,
book IV, title 6, section 2, where the law relating to minors
is fully collated.
Under the civil law, the term "abandonment" has a technical and definite meaning, to wvit: that if a man be dissatisfied
with his unmovable estate, and abandon it immediately, and
depart from it corporeally. with an intention that it shall no
longer be his, it will become the property of him who fwat
enters thereon.
1 Partidas, Law 50, p. 8 6 5 .
Escriche, p. 5, title "Abandono de cosa&"
Landes v. Perkins, 12 Missouri R., 288.
In certain cases, the doctrine of abandonment is rigidly an-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

147

Aene. v. United Sta.

forced under the Spanish law; but these are special cases, and
this is not one of them.
See Escriche, page 6.
The author says: "But these strict principles are not admitted in our general laws, and we have already seen that
every proprietor may preserve his estate in lands, although he
has failed to cultivate them for many years." *But an intention to abandon his estate will not be presumed against a
minor, nor will prescription run against him.
Escriche, p. 1230, title "Menor."
Calvin v. Innis, 10 Martin (La.) R., 287.
9 Louisiana R., 379.
Orso v. Orso, 11 Louisiana R., 62.
It is evident therefore that under the Spanish law of abandonment the grantee in this case did not lose his land. But,
in such cases, how is the fact of abandonment to be ascertained?
The only effect of it is, not to forfeit the iand to the sovereign,
bult to enable the first occupant to claim it as his. Before his
right is established, it must be done by some judicial proceeding; and no other is known to the Spanish law than the process of "denouncement," which is employed not only in obtaining a title to abandoned lands, but also to mines which
have been abandoned. It is a judicial proceeding, conducted
with much formality, and after due notice.
1 Rockwell's Spanish and Mexican Law, 50 to 56.
9. The title of the grantee is a legal and not an equitable
title. His grant is a patent, and conveys the legal estate,
which would maintain ejectment.
Ferris v. Coover, 10 Cal. R., 589.
In several cases before this court, from California, grants
similar to this have been deemed and held to be equivalent
to patents. The claimant's application for a confirmation is
not, therefore, addressed to the equity side of the court; but
lie invokes its judgment upon the question whether o'r not he
has a valid legal title to the land; and if so, he usks that it be
confirmed. In such a case, the only question presented is,
whether or not he produces a valid and definitive grant, free
from fraud. If his grant be of that character, it is not per-

SUPRE.ME COURT.
Awv. Uhutcd Maw

ceived how the question of abandonment can arise. Ho mode
isknown to our laws, by Which a legal title can be "abandoned," so as to work a forfeiture; and we have already
shown, that under the Spanish law, in order to divest the
title, the fact of abandonment must be ascertained. N3o such
proceeding having occurred in this case, the title is unimpeached.
The Attorney General referred particularly to the dates of
the grant and other papers connected with the title, and then
made the following points:
This giant'i3 illegal and contrary to the laws and customs
-.
of the Government of Mexico, becauseI. The grantee was a minor at the time of its datea nd incapable for that reason of performing the conditions annexed
to it.

II. It is void because it was made by a' Governor who was
a near relative of the grantee.
II. There was no petition; no examination into the condition of the land or the character of the applicant;, no map
of the land; no reference to anymgiagistrate or officer; no report upon. the case; and, therefore, the Governor had no
authority, jurisdiction, or power, to make the concession, even
if the grantee'had been a stranger to his blood.
IV. There is no expediente on file, and no note or record
in any book among the archives of the Department.
V. Besides all this, it is fraudulent and spurious, a base and
impudent forgery. For this assertion I give the followimg
reasons:
1. The fact that no trace of this. grant is to be found upon
the record, is of itself conclusive evidence against its genuineness.
2. The grantee never took possession of the land, nor
claimed title. under it, nor produced the grant, until 1852.
3. The subscribing witness to the execution of the grant
(Jimeno) was not called, and we must presume that- he was
not called because it was known that he would proubuice the
paper to be fraudulent.
4, The testimony substituted in place of the best evidence
-

D1ECI'M.BERI TERM, 1859.

449

Fuentes v. United Statks.

was that of witnesses who, at *the very most, could *prove
nothing beyond their own belief. One of them does not prove
even so much, but only that the signatures are like those of
Micheltorena and Jimeno.
5. But these witnesses, no matter what they. swear to, ari
unworthy of belief. They are professional witnesses. (See
table in Limantour dociiaents.). No court in California,
where Manuel Castro's achievements as a witness are known,
would pronounce a judgment upon his testimony. Abrego
was incontestably proved to be guilty of perjury in the Lirantour case, and the fact was so announced by the court.
6. The grant is dated at Monterey, on the 12th of June,
1843. Manuel Castro says it was written and executed there.
But the fact is, that Micheltorena was not at Monterey until
the 28th of September, 1843, that being the date of the earliest
public paper on record which appears to have been issued
from that place. On the 12th of June, 1843, he was at LOs
Angeles, as his public correspondence shows.
Exhibit II, Limantour case.
7. But the forgery of this paper can be conclusively established by ocular demonstration. On page 73 of the photograph exhibits contained in the library of the court will be
fbund an exact photographic copy of this grant. On page 75
are the signatures. The signature of Manuel Jimeno there,
when it comes to be compared with the genuine signatures
elsewhere in the same book, will speak for itself.
It is not at all difficult to see how and when this grant was
fitbricated. It is in the handwriting of Manuel Castro, a part
of whose business consisted in forging land grants. Probably
enough, Micheltorena's name may have been put to it by his
own hand, or it may have been written on one of those blank
grants which Micheltorena issued after the treaty of peace.
Either way, it is very certain it was done at the city of.Mexico,
as late as the year 1850. Manuel Castro wrote, it then and"
there, and not at Monterey in 1843. The court'will observe
that, though the grant is dated in 1848, and the power of
attorney on the back of it bears date at the city of Mexico, iii
1848, there is no official attestation of either, nor anything
VOL. XXIr.

29

450

SUPREME COURT.
Aentes v. United

.Stae

else which can repel the presumption of forgery, earlier than
1852. It is very certain that it that time the paper was in
existence, with the power of attorney on its back. But it had
been fabricated a very short time before. There are several
other grants in Manuel Castro's handwriting. (See pages 54,
56, 64, and 67, of the photograph exhibits.) They were made
about the same time, and they are known to be forgeries, for
they have timantour's false seal, which was certainly not
made before 1850.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant has come to this court asking for a confirmation of his claim to eleven leagues of land, called Potrero.
The paper under which he claims the land purports to be a
grant from Governor Micheltorena. It recites that the land
is within the ex-mission of San Jose, bounded on the north by
the locality called the Warm Springs, on the south by Palos,
on the west by the peak of the bill of the ranchos Tulgencio
Higuera and Chrysostom Galenda, and on the east by the
adjoining mountains. It also recites that the Governor had
taken all the necessary steps and precautionary proofs which
were required by the Mexican laws and regulations for granting lands, and that he had granted the land upon the following conditions to the appellant:
1. That he should enclose it without prejudice to the cros'sways, roads, and uses.; that he shall have the exclusive enjoyment of it, and apply it to such use and culture as may best
suit his views.
2. That he should apply to the proper judge for judicial
possession of the same, by whom the boundaries shall be
marked out, and along which landmarks should be placed to
designate its limits, and that fruit and forest trees shall be
planted on the land.
3. That the land given should contain eleven leagues for
large cattle, as is designated by a map said to be-attached to
the extediente. The land is to be surveyed according to the
ordinance; and should there be an overplus, it was to inure to
the benefit of the nation.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
._ntes v. United Sktaes.

The title is to be recorded in the proper book, and then to
be delivered to the petitioner for the land, for his security.
This paper bears date the 12th June, 1843, and-has the name
of Micheltorena to it, which is denied to be his signature.
The first inquiry, then, co6cerning it, should be into its
genuineness. Was it executed by Governor Michgltorena?
Has the party claiming proved it?
The testimony introduced in support of the genuineness of
the paper is to be found in the depositions of Zamon De Zaldo,
Jose Abrego, Manuel Castro, and Joseph L. Folsom. Zaldo
declares himself to be chief clerk and interpreter to arrange
and classify the Spanish and Mexican archives in the custody
of the surveyor general of California. He was not interrogated as to the signature to the paper, and says nothing about
its having been executed by Micheltorena. He was asked what
he knew ot the book of land titles of the Mexican Government
for the year 1843. He answers that he knew that a book for
the year 1843 was not in the ofice, though he did not know
of his own personal knowledge that such a book ever existed,
and that all that he did know about it had been learned from
a correspondence in tie office, that such a book belonging to
the archives had been in the possession of J.L. Folsom, United States quartermaster at the time, and that he had learned,
in the same way, that it was destroyed with Folsom's papers
by the fire in San Francisco of 1851, Folsom states that a
book of records, containing grants of land in Upper California, had been put into his possession in the spring of 1851, to
be used as evidence in the suit of Leese & Vallejo v. Clark,,
then pending in the Supeior.Court of the city of San Francisco. It was in the Spanish lafiguage, and came from the
archives of the Mexican Government of California, then in
the possession of the commanding general at Benicia, and
was delivered to him as an officer of the army, for safe keeping. He adds: after the book was used as evidence, it was
returned to me, and was deposited in my office in the city of
San Francisco; and whilst there, the great fire of the 8d and
4th May, 1851, occurred, by which my office and its contents.
including the said book, were destroyed. And he then con-

452

SUPREME COURT.
.Fuentesv. UnWed Stales.

chdes his deposition, qayine: "lam not positive as to the date
of the grants containedin the said book, butfrom my best recolletion,
my impression is that they were for the years 1843 and 1844." The
purpose for which Zaldo and Folsom were made witnesses for
the claimant was to connect the book which Zaldo said was
not among the archives with thebook which Folsom said had
been burned, that it might be inferred, from the date of the
paper upon which Fuentes rests his claim, that it had been
recorded in that book. It is stated in the petition that the
grant was issued and delivered in due form of law on tt'e 12th
June, 1843; that it was recorded at the time it was issued;
that it was not to be found in the archives; and that he believes that the copy of the grant was burned, and on that account could not be produced. It is further stated, that the
grant had been approved by the Territorial Legislature, and
was in all respects formally completed according to law, but
that the records of the Legislature for the year 1843 Were in
like manner destroyed by fire at the same time with the
record of the grant, and that the claimant could not produce
any evidence of the approval of the grant by the Legislature.
In this recital from the petition we find a very exact anticipation of what the evidence ought to be, to prove that such a
grant had been issued, and that it had been duly recorded,
but none such was introduced. Zaldo believes, from a correspondence in the office, that a book belonging-to it had been
burned while it had been in the safe keeping of Folsom. Folsom says a book from the archives was burned, but that he
cannot be positive as t6 the date of the grant in it, but that
from his best recollection his impression was, the grants in it
were for the years 1843 and 1844; and Zaldo declares that he
had no personal knowledge that such a book ever existed, but
adds, that there is wanting in the office a book for the year
1843. This falls far snort of the evidence which was necessary
to connect the alleged grant with the 'archives of the office.
There is no other evidence in the record to supply such deficiency. And it is admitted now that the paper was never sent
0o the Departmental Assembly.'
. In truth, between that burned book and the Fuentes paper,

I TEIRM, 1859
DE]MJ'I]]

4.58

Fuentes v. United Stat?.

the testimony in the record makes no connection whatever.
The mere declaration that it was dated in 1848 cannot do so.
Nor can any implication of the kind be raised from the testimony of Abrego and Castro. Neither of these witnesses were
interrogated concerning the burned book, nor was any attempt made to prove that any of the records of the Departmental Assembly, espeeially its approval of tP.is grant, had been
burned at the same time. What has been said of the insufficiency of the evidence to prove the r~cord of the paper applies
with equal force to the certificate which is alleged to have
been given by Jimeno, that the paper set out in the petition
as a grant had been recorded in the proper book, which is
used in the archives of the secretary's office.
The case, then, stands altogether disconnected from the archives, and exclusively upon the paper in the possession of
Fuentes. It has no connection with the preliminary steps
required by the act of Mexico of the 18th August, 1824, or
with the regulations of November 28, 1828. It is deficient in
every particular-unlike every other ease which has been
brought to this court from California. There was no petition
for the land; no examinatioi into its condition, whether
grantable or otherwise; none into the character and national
status of the applicant to receive a grant of land; no order for
a survey of it; no reference of any petition for it to any magistrate or other officer, for a report upon the case; no transmission of the grant-supposing it to be such-to the Departmental Asgembly or Territorial Legislature, for its acquiescence; nor was an expediente on file in relation to it, according to the usage in such cases.
All of the foregoing were customary requirements for grant•ing lands. Where they had not been complied with, the title
was not deemed to be complete for registration in the archives,
nor in a condition to be sent to the Departmental Assembly,
for its action upon the grant. The Governor could not dispense with them with official propriety; nor shall it be presumed that he has dohe so, because there may be, in a paper
asid to be a grant, a declaration that they had been observed,

8 L IPRI

4,'

C OURT.

Puede8 v. Ubilec glat.

particularly in a case where the archives do not show any
record of such a grant.
The act 1824 and the regulations of 1828 are limitations
upon the power of the Governor to make grants of land.
They are, and were also considered to be, directions to petitioners for land, before they could get titles. *Where the petition and the other requirements following it have not been
registered in the proper office with the gnit itself, a presumption arises against its genuineness, making it a proper subject
of inquiry before that fact can be admitted. It is not to be
taken as a matter of course; nor should slight testimony be
allowed to remove the presumption. Both the kind and quantum of evidence must be regarded. We proceed to state what
they are in the record.
None can-e found'to establish with a reasonable probability
the genuineness of t'e paper upon which the claimant relies.
The only testimony bearing upon the genuineness of the paper
is that of Abrego and Castro. Both speak of the signature of
Micheltorena, and no further. Abrego says that he knew the,
-Governor; that he had frequently seen him write, and that he
had examined the signature to the document presented to him.
and that he knows it to bc the signature of Governor Michel
torena.
Castro is more particular, but not so positive; and he givea
a narrative of the origin of the paper, which is certainly pe.
culiar, and from which a reasonable suspicion may be in ulged
against his disinterestedness. He says: "An instrument in
writing is now shown to me, purporting to be a grant to Jose
Maria Fuentes, dated June 12, 1848, and it is attached tothq
deposition of Jose Abrego, heretofore taken in this case, and
marked H. J. T., No. 1. I know the paper; it ia in my handwriting. I was at the time secretary in the prefect's office in
Monterey, and being on terms of friefidship with Secretary
Jimeno and Mr. Arce, a clerk in his office, I frequeptly assisted them in their official duties, at their request, and in that
manner I wrote the body of this grant It was mwitten in
June, 1848, at the.time of its date. I know the signature of
Micheltorena; and the signature purporting to be his itypear

DIECEMTR TEBII,

1859.

Fuentes v. U7nited States.

like his; and the signature of Jmeno on said pa~er also appears"
like his." The words of the witness have been given.
The signature of Jimcno, of .which Castro speaks, purports
to be a certificate from Jimeno that the grant had been recorded, the day after its date, in the proper book of the
archives of-the secretary's department: It is upon the same
paper with the title, and purports to have been put upon it by
the order of the Governor, "that the title might be delivered
to the party interested, for his security and ulterior ends."
Abrego, in a second deposition, says he knew Fuentes and
his family, and that he was not of age, but was a minor, on
the 7th July, 1846-more than three years after the date of
the grant.
Such is all the testimony in this record to prove the genuineness of the signature of .Micheltorena, unless'it be the
notarial certificate, given underthe seal of the National College in the city of Mexico; which, as it is presented in this
case, is not evidence, and. of no account at all.
We will now show that the testimony of Abrego to the signature of Mieheltorena is insufficient to establish that fact,
and that Castro's deposition gives to it no aid. In truth, the
whole case has no other evidence in support of the genuineness of the signature of the Governor than what Abrego has
said. In showing this, we shall have no occasion to impeach
his character as a man, or his truthfulness as a witness, as
there is"nothing in this record, whatever there may be in
others, to ji i'fy such an attack. The case must be decided
upon what its own record contains, and upon nothing else.
Abrego's deposition has not that foundation which the rules
of evidence require a witness to have, to enable him to prove
the genuineness of an official signature to a public document,
or a signature to a private writing. The document in this
instance purports to be genuine; but whether so or not, it
discloses the fact that there is upon it an official witness of its
execution and record, who should have been called to prove
it, if he was living, and if absent beyond the jurisdiction of-the
court, whose signature shoull have been proved by a witness
who was familiar with his signature and handwriting, before

SUI'I

-I;M
COURT.

Fuentes v. United ,States.

secondary evidence could be received of his own signature, pr
that of the official who is said to have executed the paper.
It was the duty of Jimen'o to record all grants which were
made by the Governor, and tW give attestations of that fact,
and which it is said Jimeno did give to the paper in this
instance. Why was not Jimeno called? It seems that lie
was overlooked or not thought of.
The simplest and best proof of handwriting is the testimony
of one Who saw the signature actually written; and inferior
evidence as to his handwriting is notecompetent, until it has
been shown that his testimony to the execution of the paper
could not have been procured. And when a document, either
public or private, is without a witness, the best evidence to
disprove the signature, and to prove it forged, is the testimony
of the supposed writer, if he be not incompetent from interest,
and can be produced. In the latter case, the'next best evidence is the information of persons who have seen him write,
or been in correspondence with him.
Such, however, is not this case, though it was acted upon
In the court below as if it was so.
Abrego here, then, is in the attitude of an incompetent witness, who was called and permitted to testify before the party
by whom he was introduced, had laid a foundation for the
next best evidence, when the paper submitted to him showed
the fact that the better could have been had, either primarily
or secondarily, in the manner we have already indicated.
Abrego swears that he knew Micheltorena; that he had frequently seen him write; that he had examined the signature
to the document presented to him, and that he knew it to be
the signature of Governor Micheltorena. But had Sepretary
Jimeno been called as a witness, as it wab his official duty to
test the signature of the Governor to grants, his would have
been the best testimony to prove its genuineness in this instance, and that the grant had been transferred to him officially, for delikvery to the grantee..
Castro's deposition is' in the same predicament with that of
Abrego. hut witlif an aggravaticn of its insufficiency to prove
the signature of Michltorena, and of his incompetency us a

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
PLente v. United Stats.

witness. He was not asked if he knew Micheltorena, or was
familiar with his. handwriting or with his signature, or if he
had ever seen him write. lie only says: I know the signature of Micheltoreua, and the signature to the paper appears
like his, and the signature of Jimeno appears like his. lie
does not say how he"had become qualified, by comparison or
otherwise, to swear to the signature of Micheltorena; and
notwithstanding his declared friendship with Jimen->- so
much, so, that he was frequently asked to assist him in the
duties of his office, and particularly asked to write out in his
own hand the paper in question-he has left it to be inferred
that be only knew enough of-Jimeno's handwriting to enable
him to say that the signature to the grant which he wrote out
in his own hand appears like Jimeno's signature.
If such was the way of doing business in the secretary's
office, which we have no cause for believing, it must have
been an easy matter to get from it such a paper as that now
in question, and not at all difficult to have been accomplished
by one whd had such familiar access to the office as Castro
represents himself to have had, especially if all of the prerequisites of a grant enjoined by the act of 1824 and the regulations of 1828 were allowed to be disregarded.
This narrative of De Castro, instead of bringing the mind
to any conclusion in favor~of the genuineness of the signatures
of Micheltorena and .imeno, rather suggests caution in receiving it, and that it ought to be corroborated by other witnesses befdre that shall be done. it seems to us, too, somewhat remarkable that this witness, familiar as he was with the
origin and object of this papier prepared by himself, should
not have been questioned concerning its delivefy to Fuentes,
then a minor, to whom it was delivered for him, or what was
done with it at the time of its date, or in whose possession it
was from that time until it was presented to the land commisioners for confirniation,-in 1852.
There is entire absence of all proof of its having been delivered to Fuentes himself, or to any one for him; but it seems
to J.h found its way to the city of Mexico, as the record
enows, and reappep'-P in California years after its cession to

SUPREME COURT.
Fucwdes v. United Staee.

the United States, and more than eight years after it is eaid
to have been executed. The assertion in the paper itself, that
the Governor had directed it to be delivered, can be no proof
of that fact, until its genuineness shall have been ascertained.
If the minority, too, of Fuentes is considered, in connection
with the conditions ripon which this grant is said to have been
made, it may well be inferred that it was not delivered to the
grantee, as he was not then in a situation to carry out the
condfitions of the grant, without the intervention of a tutor or
guardian, and nothing was done to perform those conditions
at any time afterward.
We do not speak now of such non-performance as a cause
sufficient for denying a right claimed under a genuine grant;
but only as a fact in this case accounting for.the non-performance of the conditions of the grant, and making it probable
that Fuentes did not receive this paper until some time after
its date from Micheltorena, and not until after the cession of
California to the United States. A delivery after the latter
event, by a former Governor of California, would not give a.
grantee a right to cluim the land by any obligation imposed
upon the United States by the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.
We have given to this case a very careful examination, and
have concluded that no evidence can be found on its record
to sustain the genuineness of the paper under which the land'
is claimed. That there is none to prove its registry in the
archives of the Secretary's office, at the time of its date or
afterwards. That no reliable proof has been given to connect
it with the book of records, which had been committed to the
care of the witness, Folsom, and was burned in his office.
That it does not appear that any one of the precautionary
requirements, before a grant of land could be made by a Governor of California, had been complied with in this case.
That there is no proof whatever that such a paper as that in
question had been delivered to the claimant at any bine before
the power of Mexico in California had ceased; and it was
admitted, in the argument of the case here, that no such paper
had been sent to the Departmental A23embly for ita acquiea.
'itnce, as a grant from the Governor.

DECEMBER TERM, 159.

459

Fuenes v. United &atma.

It was, however, urged in the argument, that such prerequisites for a grant of land should be assumed to have been
observed, on account of a recital in the paper or grant that
they had been. Several cases from the reports of this court
were cited, being supposed by counsel to support the position.
None of them do so. We have not been able to find a case
reported from this court, either under the Louisiana or Florida
cession, that does. Peralta's case, in 19 Howard, 343, does
not do so. The decision there is, that when a claimant of
land in California produced documentary evidence in his favor,
eopied from the archives in the office of the Surveyor General, and
other original grants by Spanish officers, the presumption is
in favor of the power of those officers to make the grants.
There, the authenticity of the documents was admitted, and
the validity of the petitioner's title was not denied, on the
ground of any want of authority of the officers who made the
grant. This court then said, that the public acts of public
officers, importing to be exercised in an official capacity 'and
by public authority, shall not be presumed to be usurped, but
that a legitimate authority had been previously given or subsequently ratified.
In the case of Minturn et al. v. Crommelin, 18 Howard, 88,
it was ruled that when a patent for land has been issued by
the officers of the United States, the presumption is in favor
of its validity, and passes the legal title, but that it might be
rebutted by proof that the officers had no authority to issue it,
on account of the land not being subject to entry and grant.
In Delassus's case, 9 Peters, 117,133, the inquiry was, whethei
the concession was legally made by the proper authority; but
the concession, being in regular form, carried prima face evidence that it was within the power of the officer to make it,
and that no excess or departure from instructions should be
presumed, and that he who alleges that an officer intrusted
ith an important duty has violated it, must show it. But
there was no question in that case about the genuineness of
the concession. That was admitted. The genuineness of the
grant in Arredondo's case, 9 Peters, was not questioned. Nor
was the genuineness of the patent in Bagnel's case, 13 Peters,

160

SUPREME COURT.
Fveniw v. United Staes.

437, a subject of controversy.

This court ruled in that case,

that a patent for land from the United, States was conclusive
in an action at law, and that those who claim against it must
dr:so on the equity side of the court. It is not, however, to
be supposed that no title in California can be valid, which has
not all of the preliminary requirements of the act of the Mexican Congress of 1824, and of the regulations of 1828. But
if none of them are to be found in the archives, and it cannot
be established by the proof that they were registered there,
this court will not presume that they were preliminary to a
grant, because the Governor recites in the grant that they had
been observed. In what we have said upon this point, we
are reaffirming this court's opinion in Cambuston's case, 20
Howard, 59. And we now take this occasion to repeat, that
when it shall appear that none of the preliminary steps for
granting land in California have been taken, this court will
not confirm such a claim. For the reasons already given, we
shall affirm the decree of the District Court in this case.
But we also concur with that court in its rejection of this
claim, supposing it to be genuine, upon the ground that there
was no proof of a survey or measurement of this land, or any
performance of its conditions, from which it may be inferred
that the grantee had abandoned his claim. It is said that
these were conditions subsequent, the uion-performance of
which do not necessarily avoid the grant. This is the case
as to some of them; but even as to such, when a grantee
*allows years to pass after the date of his grant without any
attempt to perform them, and without any explanation for not
having done so, and then for*the first time claims the land,
after it had passed by treaty from the national jurisdiction
which granted it, to-the United States, such a delay is unreasonable, and amounts to evidence that the claim to the land
has been abandoned, and that a party under such circumstances, seeking to-resame his ownership, is actuated by some
consideration or expectation of advantage, unconnected with
the conditions of the grant, which he had not in view when
he petitioned for the land, and when it was granted. The
language just used was suggested in .the Fremont case. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Aro ork and Bal. Trans. Co. v. PiZ.and Savannah SeamVaviation Co.

occasion has arisen in this case, when it becomes necessary to
affirm it- as a rule, to guide us in all 6ther cases hereafter
which may be circumstanced as this is.
The decree of the District Court in this case is affirmed.

THE NEW YORK AND BALTIMORE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY,
.APPELLJ1NTS, V. THE PHILADELPHIA AND SAVANNAH

NAVIGATIOCJ CoMP
STATE.

STEAM

, OWNERS OF THE STEAMSHIP KEYSTONE

In a collision which took place in the river Delaware, between a steamship and
a barge which was in tow of a propeller, the latter was in fault.
The lookout was not properly stationed, being in a place where his view was
obstructed; and the propeller violated the rule which requires steamers ap
proaching each other from opposite directions to port their helms, and pass
each other on the larboa -dside.
A propeller with a barge in tow is not within the rule which applies to sailing
vessels, and which requires steamships to keep out of their way. Propellers

have nearly the same speed as side-wheel steamers, and quite as much power.
and must be subject to the same rules of navigation.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
It was a case of collision between the steamship Keystone
State and a barge called the A. Groves, jun., which took place
on the river Delaware, whereby the barge was sunk in the
river, and her cargo greatly damaged.

The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
The libel was filed by the New York and Baltimore Trans.
portation Company against the owners of the Keystone State
The District Court dismissed the libel, and the Circuit Court,
upon appeal, affirmed the decree. The libellants then appealed
to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Wharton and Mr. hkey for the appel
lants; and by Mr. McCall and Mr. Campbell for the appelleef

