SUPIREME COURT.
SpriWfield TowA4j v. Quickc el aZ.

cial prosperity in the future which no nation ever enjoyed.
Our contracted views of the English admiralty, which was
limited by the ebb and flow of the tide, were discarded, and
the more liberal principles of the civil law, equally embraced
by the Constitution, were adopted.
This law is commercial in its character, and applies to all
navigable waters, except to a commerce exclusively within a
State. Many of our leading rivers are sometimes unnavigable; but this cannot affect their navigability at other times.
A commerce carried on between two or more States is subject
to-the laws and regulations of Congress, and to the.admiralty
jurisdiction.
Upon the whole, the decree of the Circuit Court is reversed;
and the cause is remanded, under the above order of this Court.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissented, and Mr. Justice CATRON concurred for the reason stated by him.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL dissenting:
The decree in the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel in thib
cause, was rendered before the judgment in this couit in the
case of Jackson v. Magnolia, 20 How., 292, was given.. There
is no material diflerence in the cases. The reasons for the
judgment of the Circuit Court in this case are contained in
the opinion filed by me in that case. L do not considerdit
necessary or proper to repeat them here. I concur in the
judgment of the court upon the merits of the cause.
Mr. Justice CATRON concurs with the opinion of the court,
because the question of jurisdiction, involved in this cause,
was ruled in the case of the Magnolia, referred o by 14r. Jus.
tice Campbell.
SPRINGpIELD TowNsHIP, OF FRANKLIN COUNTY, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR. V. JOHN H. Quiox, AUDITOR, AND WILLIADI ROBESON,
"!REA5URER, OF FRANKLIN COUNTY.

(ongresg re-qervpa the sixteenth section of the public lands in all the new States
fbr the stuu nr of schools, for the benefit-of the inhabitants of the township.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

57

4pringfidd Townhip v. Quick e aZ.
So that the funds arising from this section are applied to the use of the inhabit,
afits of the township, the State has a right to apply funds raised from othez
sources, according to its discretion, for the purposes of education throughout
'the State.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Indiana by a writ of error, issued under the twentyfifth section of the judiciary act.
It originated in the county of Franklin, before the judge of
the fourth judicial circuit of the State of Indiana, and was
called a civil action. Springfield township filed a complaint
against Quick, the auditor, and Robeson, the treasurer, of
Franklin county, alleging that they had in their hands a certain sum of money, which they were about to distribute erroneously, and praying for an injunction to prohibit them from
making the distribution in the mode which they proposed.
On the 21st of May, 1855, an injunction was issued by the
clerk of the court., according to the prayer of the bill. In
August, 1855, the defendants demurred to the" bill, upon the
ground that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The court overruled the demurrer, and ordered the defendants to answer; which being declined, the injunction was made perpetual. The defendants
appealed to the Supreme Court, which reversed the judgment, and Springfield township brought the case up to this
court.
The reservation by Congress of the sixteenth section of the
public lands in each township in all the new States, and its
appropriation to school purposes for the benefit of the inhabitants of tife township, is so well known to all readers of
American history, that a brief reference to the legislation of
Indiana will be sufficient to explain the point involved in the
present case.
Under the authority of an act of Congress; Springfield township sold the sixteenth section, in 1836, for the sum of
$7,423.36; which was invested, and the interest applied to the
support of schools within the township. It was conceded, in
the argument of this case, that the township was still entitled
to the use of this money, and to receive it; but the claim was

58

SUPREMlE COURT.
,€.ringfield Tow nhip v. Quick et al.

for an additional amount, from a fund which accrued uhder
the State'laws of Indiana.
In 1851, Indiana adopted a new Constitution, the eighth
article of which established a school fund, derived from several
sources, which were directed to be -consolidated into one fund.
The first of these sourceis was the Congressional township
fund and the lands belonging thereto. Then followed an
enumeration of ten diffferent sources from which revenue was
derived, all of which were united into one common fund.
This was directed, by an act of the Legislature; to be apportioned amongst the several counties of the State, according to
the enumeration of scholars -therein, without taking into consideration the Congressional township fund in such distribution.
But the Constitution also contained the following section,
being section seven, in the eighth article, viz:
" "All trust funds held by the State shall remain inviolate,
and lie faithfully and exclusively applied to the purposes for
which the trust was created."
It is evident that, under this act of the Legislature, Springfield township might have received less than the interest of
the sum for which section sixteen had been sold, the proceeds
of which had been invested. Therefore a suit was brought
against the auditor, treasurer, and board of commissioners, of
Franklin county, to test the constitutionality of the law; and
at November term, 1854, the Supreme Court of the State
decided that the act of the L'emislature was a violation of the
seventh section of the eighth article of the Constitution just
quoted, and was consequently null and void. The case is
reported in 6 Indiana Reports, page 84.
In March, 1855, the Legislature passed another act, providing for the distribution of the fund, but inserting the following proviso at the end of the one hundred and first section:
"Provided, however, that in no case shall the Congressional
township fund, &c., be diminished by such distribution, and
diverted to any other township."
Springfield township filed the complaint now in quetion,
alleging that they were er titled to $435.17, being the int'iet

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

59

S4ringfidd Townsktp v. Quick et d.

of the sum for which section sixteen had been sold, and also
to $437.76, being its distributive share, making in the aggregate $872.93, to he distributed in aid Springfield township;
or, in other words, that the State had no right to charge them,
ini estimating their distributive share, with what they had received under the Congressional township fund.
The history of this suit has been given in the early part of
this statement, by which it will be seen that the Supreme
Court of Indiana decided against the claim of Springfield township. The case is reported in 7 Indiana Reports, page 636.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Barbour for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. Jones for the defendant.
Mr. Barbour enumerated the acts of Congress which bore
upon the case, and also the Constitution and laws of Indiana.
The point which lie made resulted from this examination, and
was sfated in the following manner:
The eighth article of that Constitution contains the following
provisions on the subject of education:
"SEC. 1. Knowledge and learning, generally diffused
throughout a community, being essential to the preservation
of a free government, it shall be the duty of the General Assembly to encourage, by all suitable means, moral, intellectual,
scientific, and agricultural improvement; and to provide by
law for a general uniform system of common schools, wherein
tuition shall be without charge, and equally open to all.
"SEc. 2. The common school fund shall consist of the Congressional township fund, and the lands belonging thereto, the
surplus revenue fund, and the other funds named."
The third, fourth, and fifth sections provide for the funding,
investment, and distribution thereof.
See. 6 makes the several counties liable for the preservation
of the fund, and payment of the interest thereon.
"SE C. 7. All trust funds, held by the State, shall remain inviolate, and be faithfully applied to the purposes for which the

trust was created."

SU]REME COURT.
Springfield Township v. Quick et al.

Sec. 8 provides fbr the election of a State superintendent of
public instruction.
Pursuant to the provisions of this'article of the Constitution,
the first Indiana Legislature convened after its adoption, by
an act approved June 14, 1852, and found in the Revised Code
of 1852, (vol. 1, page 439,) undertook to consolidate the school
funds of 1852. and to distribute generally over the State the
proceeds of the sixteenth section in each township, reserved
by Congress to the inhabitants of the respective townships in
which the sections are situate, for the use of schools therein.
This distribution was controverted by the present plaintiffs
in the State courts, and their power and right to the exclusive
control of this sixteenth section and its proceeds fully established by the Supreme Court of the State Qf Indiana, in the
case of the State of Indiana and others v. Springfield Township, reported in 6 Indiana Reports, page 84, &c., and which
is especially referred to the attention of this .court, as containing a true statement and history of the legislation of Indiana
on this subject, and a full vindication of the right of.the plaintiffs in this case to the relief sought.
Shortly after this judgment was pronounced by the Supreme
Court of the State of Indiana, which was at the November
term, 1854, the Legislature of Indiana, to avoid its force and
effect, and indirectly to accomplish that which the court determined could not be done, passed an act, approved March 5,
1855, entitled "An act to provide" for a general system of
common schools, the officers *thereof, and their respective
*duties, and matters .properly connected therewith, and to
establish township libraries, and for the regulation thereof."
See Acts of Indiana for 1855, page 161.
The following is the ninety-seventh section ofthat act:
"The State superintendent shall annually, by the *fourth
Monday in April in each year, make out a statement showing
the number of scholars in each county of the State, the amount
of the income of the common school fund in each county for
distribution, and the amount of taxes collected for school purposes, arid shall apportion the same to the several counties of
the State, according to the -enumeration of scholars therein,

.DECEMINBEII TERM, 1859.
Springfield Towslhip v. Quick d al.

without taking into consideration the Congressional township
funds in such distribution."
After having in this manner furnished the basis For the distribution of the income of the common school fund and
amount of the school tax for the current year amongst the seeeral counties, the act prescribes, in its 101st section, the method.
of distributing, in each county, the sum so apportioned to it. It
is as follows:
"'The treasurer of the several counties shall annually, on
the third Monday of May, make distribution of the income of
the common school fund to which his county is entitled (upon
the warrant of the county auditor) to the several townships
and incorporated cities and towns of the county, which payment shall be made to the treas;urer of each township; and in
making the said distribution, the auditor shall ascertain the
amount of the Congressional township fund belonging to each
city, town, and township, and shall so apportion -the income
of the common school fund as to equalize the amount of available funds in each city, town, and township, as near as may.
be, according to the number of scholars therein: Provided,
however, That in no case shall the Congressional townshipfund
be diminished by such distibution, and diverted to any other
township."
To controvert the right of distribution under these sections,
the plaintiffs in error filed their complaints in the court'below.
Issue was joined, and, the cases went to the Supreme Court of,
the State of Indiana, where the judgment was finally against
the plaintiffs in error, and to reverse which, these writs of
error are prosecuted under the act of Congress.
The plaintiffi in error insist that the eighth article of the
Constitution of 1851 of the State of Indiana, and the legislation of said statute of March 4, 1855, above referred to, are
both in violation of the ordinance and acts of Congress, vesting these said sixteenth sections in the inhabitants of the respective townships in which they are situated, and consequently void.
it cannot be disguised that this legislation of 1855 was a
palpable evasion of the judgment pronounced by the Supreme

SUPREME COURT.
rinygfied Towm~1ij v. quid;~ et d.

Court of Indiana, in 6 Indiana Reports, page 84. And this high
court will certainly not tolerate this petty subterfuge, but will
hold as they did in Trustees for Vincennes University v. the
State of Indiana, (14 Howard's Supreme Court Reports, page
268,) that the rights of parties cannot thus be trifled with, but
will be held sacred from all improper legislation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana in the case
at bar, (7 Indiana Reports, page 636,) pronounced by Judge
Gookins, we think is a very lame attempt to justify the eighth
article of the Constitution of 1851 and the a~t of 1855, andcannot be sustained by reason or authority. With all due
respect for the opinion of that court, it is a mere ad captandum
argument, and, as will be seen, was the opinion of a divided
court.
What rights are sacred which can be spirited away in this
manner, or what respect can such legislation or judicial construction command, when it is conceded that the same effect
is produced indirectly, which, it is solemnly pronounced, cannot be done directly.
The plaintifth in error, appeal to this honorable court to protect their rights and interests, vested under these acts of Congress, against this unjust State legislation, and against this
void ptovision of the State Constitution.
The rights of the plaintifs in error appear to them so plain
and self-evident, that it is difficult to frame an argument to
support them, and they are submitted to the court on theig
own intrinsic merits.
Mr.Jons made the two following points:
1. Is the act in question constitutional ?
2. Does it violate the act of Congress making the grant of
the sixteenth section of lands in the several Congressional
townships of the State of Indiana, "to the inhabitants thereof,
for the use of schools?"
In arriving at the merits of this case, it may not be improper
to view it with referrence to a general question, as to whether
it ia in contravention of any provision of the Constitution of
the United States. The appellees insist it is not, as that in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

63

Springfield To wnhip v. Qui l et a.

strument is but a charter of privileges and powers ceded and
delegated by the people of the Union to the General Government, aa restrictions and concessions of inherent sovereignty,
necessary to be made in order to create, give efficiency to, and
perpetuate, a parent government. And that the right exercised by the State of Indiana, as claimed by her in the law in
question, is not a ceded nor a delegated right, and that its exercise is not, by reasonable construction, within'any prohibitive
feature of the Federal Constitution. ,On the contrary, this
right is conceived to be within the reasonable limits of the
rights specially reserved to the States or to the people-the
true source of all political power-by the tenth amendment to
that instrument, that "The powers not delegated to the United
States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to the States, respectively, or to the people."
Does it contravene any provision of the Constitution of the
State of Indiana? It is insisted that it does not, as the Con..
stitution of the State is but an organic rule, originating in and
restrictive of the unlimited powers of a sovereignty. Not defining what alone the Legislature may do, in its capacity as
the law-making power of the State, but.positively prohibiting
certain acts of legislation; denying that branch of the State
Government the privilege of interfering with ceitain defined
rights, reserved by the people, and pointing out the mode in
which legislation shall be conducted. It does not -withhold
from the State the right to prescribe, through the agency of
her Legislature, a rule for the taxation of her people and their
property, within her limits, for educational purposes. Nor
does it prohibit any distribution the Legislature may see
proper to direct of such taxes so collected, whether that distribution be per capita, or with reference to existing educational
advantages one locality may have over afiother; and whether
donations from the General Government, or other sources,
shall be taken into consideration in the mode of distribution,
is conceived to be an untrammelled power of the Legislature
of the State, the exercise of which is unforbidden by any pro%isionof either the State or the Federal Constitution.
The very features of the law complained of are component

SUPREME COURT.
4ringfield Township v. Quck et al.

parts of the State Constitution; and, if not repugnant to othei
subsequent provisions of that instrument, their validity is
coequal with the Constitution itself. These provisiobs are
contained in the eighth article, of the Constitution of the. State.
Vide R. S. of Ind., 1852, vol. 1, page 62.
The sections of the law held to be exceptionable by the
appellant are clearly within the directory provisions of the
eighth article of the Constitution of Indiana; and section one
hundred and one, so far from diverting or diminishing the
Congressional township fund, expressly provides, "that in no
case shall the income of the Congressional township fund belonging to any township, or part" of such township,be diminished by such distribution, and diverted to any other township."
Laws of the State of Indiana, 1855, page 176.
It is insisted by the appellant that the act is contraventive
of that provision of the State Constitution which requires all
laws of the State to be of uniform operation throughout the
State, which position the appellees deem to have been properly
held untenable by the Supreme Court of the State in this
same case. That court says: "It does not conflict with the
twenty-third section of the fourth article, (of the Constitution
of the State of Indiana,) which requires all laws to be of uniform operation throughout the State, for the act is not only
uniform in itself, but it produces uniformity in the subjects
upon which it operates."
It is submitted, whether the same rule of construction
which applies to a statute does not apply to a Constitution.
That where the proviso of an act (or Constitution) is directly
repugnant to the purview of it, the proviso'will not stand as
speaking the last intention of the maker. Or, in other words,
is not the subsequent constitutional provision of the eighth
artiole of the Constitution of the State of Indiana an exception to the prohibition of the fourth article of that instrument?
Nor can it be brought within the prohibitions enumerated
in the twenty-second section of the fourth article of the State
Constitution, as the only mention: there made of the'subject

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

65

4pringfewd fTbwwhi~p v. Quick-et al.
a a restriction of the State, forbidding the passage of local or
special laws "providing for supporting common schools, and
for the preservation of the school fund "-the law itself being
made to operate generally and uniformly throughout the entire
State.
It is an unquestioned duty of the State to preserve, in good
faith, the trust funds held by her for the benefit of her citizens.
In the same article of her Constitution containing the educational provisions, which the act in question was framed to
carry into effective practice, she solemnly acknowledges that
obligation by providing that "All trust funds held by the
State shall remain inviolate, and be faithfully and exclusively
applied to the purposes for which the trust was created."
And the appellees insist that it is not inconsistent with her
good faith in that respect for her, in the untrammelled exercis( of State sovereignty, in making provisions for the education of her people, to take into consideration these donations
made for educational purposes, and to so distribute all other
funds as to equalize the educational facilities of the whole
State.
The entire subject matter upon which the act in question
proposes to operate is within the limits of the State of Indiana.
She does not propose, by this legislative enactment, to assume
control of any foreign matter whatever. And it has been held,
"That a State has the same undeniable .and unlimited jurisdiction over all persons and things within its territorial limits
as any foreign nation, when that jurisdiction is not surrendered or restrained by the Constitution of the United States.
That, by virtue of this, it is not only the right, but the
bounden and solemn duty, of a State to advance the safety,
happiness, and prosperity; of its people, and to provide for
its general welfare by any and every act of legislation which.
it may deem to be conducive to these ends, when the power
over the particular subject, or the manner of its exercise, is
not surrendered or restrained in the manner just stated. That
all those powers which relate to merely municipal legislation,
or which may more properly be called internal police, -are not
surrendered or restrained; .and consequently, in relation to

VOL. XXII.

5

SUPREME COURT.
Springfidld To nsM v.

Quick el d.

them, the authority of a State is complete, unqualified, and
exclusive."
Mayor, Aldermen, and Commonalty of City of New York
v. George Miln, 11 Peters, 102.
Inasmuch as the act does not propose to .divertthe Congressional township fund, hut expressly provides against its diversion and diminution, and for its faithful preservation and application to the specified use for which it wasgranted, it most
certainly does not violate the act of Congress granting the
lands to the several townships of the State. Such construction
can only be given to the act in question, by imputing to the
State Legislature an ignorance or duplicity inconsistent with
common intelligence and common honesty.
It being unquestionably the duty of all Christian legislators
to exercise, in sound discretion, those attributes of sovereignty
called into requisition in providing means *forthe cultivation
of the intelligence and morality of the people, it is insisted
that the widest scope of power is vested in the Legislature of
the State of Indiana, to provide means for the education of
the masses within her limits. If it be not competent for her
Legislature to take into consideration advantages already enjoyed by favored sections of the State, and a sufficient tax
were levied to insure a competent school fund in all parts of
the State, on a basis of uniform taxation, the consequence
would be, that in wealthy localities, with but few proper subjects to receive the intended benefit, an unnecessary tax would
have -to be levied and collected, and an unemployed surplus
hoarded up, to become a*bone of contention, and an inducement to legislative folly and extravagance, as all past history
has ever proven plethoric treasuries to have been, as well as
a monument of a want of that proper appreciation of sovereignty which would deny discretionary power, in a sovereign
State, to equalize and render uniform the operation of her
laws, and the benefits to her people arising therefrom, by
exercising inherent powers consistent with the public welfare,
and not prohibited by any higher law.
Itbeing a well-settled principle that the power of a State to
levy taxes, to create a revenue for any specified obje,,-t, is an

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
SpiigfxeU Tobwit

*Quick d~ al.

incident of sovereignty, and only restri6ted by constitutional
inhibitions; and there being no such constitutional prohibition-the seiise of honor, justice, and equity, of a State alone
defining the limits within which that power shall be exercised-what feature of the law in question caii be said to exceed the authority of the State? In the Constitution of the
State of Indiana,; there is no feature, the appellees insist, prohibiting the levying and collecting of taxes such as contemplated by the school law in question. And that a necessary
incident to the power -to create a revenue is the power to disburse it; to apply it to the wants of the community in which
it was raised. The Constitution of the State being silent as
to the mode of distributing the common school fund,. that
burden was necessarily east upon the Legislature. In the
exercise -of this necessary, incidental power, that body directs
that all tie funds raised, to constitute a common school revenue, be so distributed, taking into consideration the Congressional township fund, as to insure an equality of educational
facilities throughout the State. The law implicitly complying with the directory provisions of the State Constitution
as.to the benefits to be conferred, if there be serious error.
or an invasion of right in it, it remains to be demonstrated by some hypothesis not yet tangibly exposed to inspection.
The very law which, ;n good faith, and with no attempt at
secrecy, takes into consideration the Congressional township
fund, in providing a mode for the distribution of tl school
funds of the State, also takes from the county seats, thcoughout the State, their hitherto exclusive school fund, known as
the seminary fund, and intermingles it with.the funds from
other sources, of which the educational fund of the State is
composed. This consolidation is iiot complaindd of as an
unwarranted assumption of power, nor is it pretended that it
is not clearly within the legitimate scope of legislative authority. The same pdwer that can rightly divert a revenue enjoyed by peculiar localities, and disburse it throughout an
entire State, most certainly possesses a sufficient authority,
over her own internal affitirs, to take into consideration other

SUPREME COURT.
Springfied Township v. Quick e al.

funds, in her efforts at placing all 'upon a uniform basis as it
respects the means of educating her.people.
The idea of attaching to the Congressional township.fund
a degree of sacredness that renders its very contemplation by
the State an unpardonable ofince, is a creature. of imagination, unsupported by any authority whatever. Indiana honorably acknowledges her trust, and provides strict rules for
its most sacred observance. She feels the obligation resting
upon her, and throws all needful restrictions, checks, and
guards, around that fund, for its preservation and appropriation to the use tbr which it has been granted by the Federal
Governient, and intrusted to her as the trustee of her people,
And at the same time, it is insisted, she justly appreciates her
sovereignty in so distributing other funds as to advance, by
her own contributions, such localities and recipients of her
favors as have not- the same educational facilities enjoyed by
those who possess considerable Congressional township tunds,
in order that the educational advantages enjoyed by her people
shall be equalized and unifor)m throughout her entire limits.
And these powers, it is insisted, are rightfully exercised by
her in the law in question, and it is conceived that the Sup1,eie Court of the State did not err in sustaining the validity
of the law.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act. declare s, that
where is drawn in question the construction of any statute of
the United States, and the decision is against the right set up
or claimed by either party under the act of Congress, such
decision may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in
the Supreme Court, on writ of error.
Here it is claimed, for the inhabitants of the township. that
the fund arisingfron the-proceeds of the sixteenth section
shall not be estimated in distributing the general school find
of the Stgfe derived from taxes palad into the State treasury.
The acts of the Legislatuke equaliie the amount that shall
be apprbpriated for the education of- each scholar throughout
the State, taking into the estimate the mioneys*derived from

DECEMBER TERM. 1859.

69

Kock v. Enmerling.

the proceeds of the sixteenth section, with the proviso, that
the whole of the proceeds shall be expended in the township.
If it be more, then an equal portion to each scholar elsewhere
furnished by the State fund-still, the township. has the benefit
of such excess, but receives nothing from the *treasury; and
if it be less, then the deficiency is made up, so as to equalize
according to the general provision.
And the question here is, Wvhethdr the State laws violate the
acts of Congress providing that the jroceeds of the sixteenth
section shall be for the use of schools in the township. And
our opinion is, that expending the proceeds of the sixteenth
section for the exclusive use of schools "in the township"
where the section exists, is a compliance with the legislation
of Congress on the subject; nor is the State bound to provide
any additional fund for a township receiving the bounty of
Congress, no matter to what extent other parts of the State
are supplied from the treasury.
The law is a perfectly just one; but if it were otherwise,
and the school fund was distributed partially, nevertheless
those receiving the bounty from Congress have no right to
call on this court to interfere with the power exercised by the
State Legislature in laying and collecting taxes, and in appropriating them for educational purposes, at its discretion.
We hold, that a true construction was giveD to the acts of
Congress referred to, and order that the judgment be affirmed.

CHARLES KOCK, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. Louis EMMERLING.

Where an agent was employed to sell an estate in Louisiana, and the owner
refused, without sufficient reasons, to fulfil an agreement which the agent had
made, a right to demand compensation accrued to the agent, the amount of
which is to be settled by established usage.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United1 States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed argument by M1r. Pike for the

