DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

129

Boack et al. v. Oha.pmaset a2.

don should join in the appeal. They were not necessary parties in a proceeding in equity to foreclose the mortgage, and
none of them have- appeared to the suit to contest the clairn
of Wakefield. And if it had been otherwise, yet the question
in controversy here is the amount of the debt due from the
-appellant; and-in the case of Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How., 201,
this court-decided that-a defenidant in equity, whose interest is
separate from that of the other defendants, may .appeal without them.

We have no doubt of the jurisdiction of the court upon this
appeal; and the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court
of the Territory inust be reversed, for the error above mentioned.
BRYAm ROACH AND DENNIS LONG, COMPOSING

!HE F RM or
ROACH & LONG, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. W]L IAN
CHAPMAN AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMER CAPITOL,
AND DANIEL EDWARDS AND JOSEPH MAILLOT, SURETIES.

Where a steamboat was built at Louisville, in Kentucky, and the persons who
furished the boilers and engines libelled the vessel in admiralty in the .Dis.
trict Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, that
court had no jurisdiction of the case.
A coitract for building a ship, or supplying engines, timber, &c, is not a maritime contract. This court so decided in 20 Howard, 400, and now reatfrms
that decision.
The State law of Kentucky, which creates a lien in such a case, cannot confer
jurisdiction on the courts of the United States; and the preceding decisions
of this court do not justify an inference to the contrary.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.
The steamer Capitol was libelled in the District Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, by
Roach & Long, residing at Louisville, in Kentucky. The libel
was filed under the general admiralty law and the law of the
State of Kentucky for $2,847.48, part of the price of the engine ai)d boilers of the steamer Capitol, furnished at Louisville. The District Court sustained the claim, but the Circuit
.voL. Xxn.
9

SUPREME COURT.
Roach et al.v. Ckapman ei al.

Court reversed the decree, and dismissed the libel for want of
jurisdiction. The libellants appealed to this court.
The case was argued for the appellants by Ir. Beajamin,
no counsel appearing for the appellees.
11r. Benjamin made the following points:
1. As to the existence of a lien in favor of the builder.
under the general maritime law, the adverse opinion of the
Circuit Court will not be called in question, as the decision of
this court in the ca.-e of the People's Ferry Co. of Boston v.
Beers et a]., 20 Howard, 398, must be considered as -conelusive on this point.
2. But a lien in this case was given both by the law of the
State of Kentucky, where the boat was built, and by that of
the State of Louisiana, where she was intended to be employed, and where the libel was filed.
Revised Statutes of Kentucky, 143, sec. 2.
La. Civ. Code, 3204.
This lien, under the law of Kentucky, where the *contract
for the work was made, was available for one year only from
the time the cause of action accrued, as against a purchaser
without actual notice, or such constructive notice as is afforded
by endorsement on the enrolment.
The libel was filed before the adoption of the new twelfth
rule in admiralty, which took effect only on the 1st May, 1859.
21 Howard's Rep., 4.
The cP,'-c f action accrued on the 5th January, 1855, and
the lPiel was filed within the year, viz: on the 15th December,
18E.
3. The District Court, sitting in admiral, had jurisdiction
to enfbrce this lien.
Read v. the hull of a new Brig, 1 Story, 244.
Davis v. a new Brig, Gilpin's R., 473, 586.
The Young, Mechanic, 2 Curtis, 402.
The Richard Busteed, 21 Law Reporter, 601.
1 Parsons on Mar. Law, 501, 499, note.
2 Parsons on Mar. Law, 504, 505, 639, and seq.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

1

Roach d~aL v. Chapman dt aL

The Steaniboat'Superior, 1 Newberry, 176.
The Propeller Chs. Mears, 1 Newberry, 197.
4. The lien thus created was not divested by the departure
of 'the vessel from the port of Louisville, nor by any subse-:
quent change of ownership, nor by virtue of any provision of
the law of Louisiana, if asserted within a reasonable period,
and without laches.
Liens of material men tllow the vessel into whatever bands
it passes.
1 Parsons on Mar. Law, 500, note.
Sheppard v. Taylor, 5 Peters, 675.
The Sloop Canton, 21 Law Rep., 47&.
The Barque Chusan, 2 Story, 466.
But in the present case there has been n6 bona fide change
of ownership.
The vessel really belongs to the party to whom the engines
were furnished. This being the case, there is no conflict with
the law of Louisiana, as supposed by the circuii judge. Such
conflict could only exist if the rights of third persons were
involved.,o
5. The taking of drafts for the unpaid balance of the price
of the engines was no waiver of the lien' The drafts were
of ered to be surrendered at the hearing in the District Court.
The Brig Nestor, 1, Sumner, 73.
The Barque Chusan, 2 Story, 455.
Leland r. Ship Medora, 2 Woodb. and Minot, .92.
Raymond v. Schr. Ellen Stewart, 5 McLean, 269.
Sutton v. the Albatross, 2 Wallace, 327.
Ramsey v. Allegre, 12 Wheaton, 611.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The libellants claim to have a lien on the steamboat Capitol,
for a balance due them for machinery furnished in her construction. The boat was built at Louisville, Kentucky, and
the libellants furnished the boilers and engines. Payments
were made as the work progressed, and bills of exchange
taken, for the balance due after the ves.qel was completed.
These were not paid. The boat left the port aind the State,

132

SUPREME COURT.
Le Roy e aZ. v. Tatham e al.

and was afterwards sold, and became the property of the
claimants.
Amongother things, the claimants pleaded to the jurisaction
of the court. This plea was sustained by the Circuit Court.
A contract for building a ship or supplying engines, timber,
or other jnaterials for her construction, is clearly not a maritime contract.
Any former dicta or decisions which seemed to favor a contrary doctrine were overruled by this court, in the case of the
People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, (20 How., 400.)
It is said here, that the law of Kentucky creates a lien in
favor of the libellants; and that, as this case originated before
the adoption of our rule, which took effect on the first of May,
1859, it may, upon the principles recognised by this court in
Peyroux v. Howard, (7 Peters, 843,) be enforced in the admiralty. But (to quote the language of the court in Orleans
v. Phoebus, 11 How., 184) "that decision does not authorize
any such conclusion. In that case, the repairs of the vessel,
for which the State laws created a lien, were made at New
Orleans, on tide waters. The contract was treated as a maritime contract, and the lien under the State laws was enforcedin admiralty, upon the ground that the court, under such circumstances, -hadjurisdiction of the contract, as maritime; and
then the lien, being attached to it, might be enforced according to the mode of administering remedies in the admiralty.
The local laws can never confer jurisdiction 6n the courts of
the United States."
It is clear, therefore, that the judgment ofth4 Circuit Court
dismissing the libel for want of jurisdiction, must be affirmed,
without noticing other questions raised by the pleadings.

THOMAS OTIS LE RoY AND DAVID SMITH, APPELLANTS, V. BEJAmNN TATHAM, JUN., HENRY B. TATHAM, AND GEORGE IT.
TATHAM.
The patent of the Tithams, for an improvement upon the machinery used fro
making pipes and tubes from lead or tin, when in a set or solid state, explained
.nd sustained.

