DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

141

City of New Orleaus v. Gafiw .

Fifth. A bridge or core-holder, which is a plate of metal
with apertures, having four or more arms radiating from the
central part, which has a central hole of the size of the core.
Sixth. A chamber of construction, located between the
bridge and the die, and extending from the one to the other,
and -either conical or cylindrical, provided the end next the
bridge be made of greater diameter than the die.
It is rare that so clear and satisfactory an explanation is
given to the machinery which performs the important func.tions above specified. We are satisfied that the patent 'is
sustainable, and that the complainants are- entitled to the
relief claimed by them.
ORDER.

The cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel;
on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that
the complainants in the court below are entitled to recover
from the defendants the sum of $16,815.57. Whereupon, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court,
that the same is hereby affirmed to the extent of the aforesaid
sum of $16,815.57, and that it be reversed as to the residdeL
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with .directions to enter a decree for
that amount in favor of the complainants. And it is further
ordered and decreed-by this court, that the costs in the court
below be paid by respondents in that court, the appellants
here, and that each party pay his own. costs in this court.

TEE Crr o

Nzw O

a&Nis, PI

n

x

nq EM ou, v. MYPA

CLARK GA IrS.
Where strwa were opened in New Orleans, a sum of inoney, s indemnity, W&S
alloved to G, as being the supposed owner of the property condemned.
D claimed to be the owner of the property, and brought a suit against the city
for the money, in which suit G was cited for the purpose of having the qaes:
tion decided, to whom the property belonged, and judgment was, rendered
against the city in favor of D.

142

SUPREME COURT.
City of New Orleans v. Gaino.

Afterwards, G brought a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States, and the
city pleaded the former judgment in bar.
But, as these facts were not given in evidence upon the tria nor did the judge
make any statement of facts found by him, the i-ecord presents only the judgment against the city in, favor of G, and-there is no ground of error upon
which this court can reverse the judgment.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of'the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Benjamin for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Phillips for the defendant, upon which side there was
also a brief filed by Mr. Peri.
Mr. Benjamin, before ptoceeding to the argument, referred
to an agreement of counsel, which had been filed, to make a
part of the case.
The record in this case shows that the cause was tried
before the judge, under the Louisiana practice, without the
intervention of a jury, and, as originally printed, contained
no statement of facts which could form a substitute for a
ve'rdict, so is to enable this court to correct any error of law
that might be apparent in the decision of the lower court.
This defect has been supplied by the consent of counsel, since
filed, which shows that the case was decided below exclusively
on the written deeds and record evidence, copied at length
into the transcript filed in this court, and the proper construction of these deeds and records and their legal effect
being matters of law, affbrd the court the necessary basis for
the exercise of its revisory powers.
Mr. Phillips said that all he knbxw about the agreement was,
that Perin signed it, understanding the court would grant a
certiorari. Mr. Perin says that the agreement was solicited anid
obtained from him long after the transcript had been filed in.
this court. But he could not inmagine that that paper would
be offbrcd a4 a substitute for bills of exceptions to the re-elion -or rejection of' evidence, or to an agreed statement of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

148

City of New Orleaz v. Gainw."

facts, which should have been reserved or made on the trial
of the cause.
Mr. Phillips then proceeded, as Mr.Bejarnin had done before, to discuss the merits of the cause; but, as the admission
of this agreement was a necessary preliminary to the discussion of the merits, and as this agreement was entirely passed
over in the opinion of the court, the reporter refrains from
admitting the argument of the merits upon either side.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The city of New Orleans instituted proceedings by suit in
a city court, pursuant to a statute of Louisiana, for opening
two streets in the city, and appropriating the private property
requisite -for that purpose; and on the tableau of assessment,
certain squares of ground were put down as belonging to Mrs.
Gaines, and thedamages done to owner fixed at $2,363.
The assessment was decreed to Mrs. Gaines by the court
where the proceeding was had; -and she brought suit on this
judgment against the city, in the United States Circuit Court.
The defendant, (the city,) b'y its answer, admitted the proceeding, and the damages assessed on the property described
in the petition; but, in avoidance of the demand, averred that.
a suit had been brought by one Durell against the city, claiming that he was the true owner of the property through which
th6 streets run, and which the commissioners of assessment
had supposed to be owned by Mrs. Gaines, and demanding
payment to him of the damages claimed by her; that in the
suit so brought by Durell, Mrs. Gaines had been personally
cited as a party, at the instance of the city, for the purpose of
having the question decided-between her and Durell, as to the
ownership of the property, and as to their respeftive. claims
on the city for the sum awarded; and that in said suit judgment was rendered, determining the question in favor of
Durell; and this judgment is pleaded in bar of the present
suit.
Various documents were exhibited with the answer, and
filed in the Circuit Court, on behalf of the city, including a
rQcord of the suit by Durell against the. city, and the recovery

SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gaiews e al.

of the damages for extending the streets; but nothing appears
in the record showing that these documents were given in
evidence' on the trial; nor did the judge before whom the
cause was heard make huy statement of the facts found by
him, as the usuale practice is, where the Circuit Court in
Louisiana tries issues of fact without the intervention of a jury.
The cause its presented to us simply shows a judgment in
Mrs. Gaines's favor, with regular pleadings to warrant it; and
beyond this, contains nothing that this court can notice, as a
court of error.
It is ordered that the judgment below be affirmed.

JOHN C. HALE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.*'WILLIAM H. GAINES
AND MARIA GAINES HIS WIFE, ALBERT BELDING, HENRY

BELDING, AND GEORGE BELDING,

HEIRS AND LEGAL REPREMIDAN .

SENTATIVES OF LUDovIous BELDING, DMOEASED, DF

In an action of ejectment for the Hot Springs in Arkansas, wherein one party
claimed title through a pr.emption claim which they were allowed to enter
by the register and receiver, and the other party through a New Madrid
certificate, (the title of' the United States not being drawn into question,) the
former party had the better title.
There was no regular survey and location of the New Madrid certifieat -until
1838, a prior application for a public survey iu 1818, and certificate of a
private survey in 1820, being irregular.
The act of Congress of April, 1822, required these locations to be made within
one year from the date of its passage. Consequently, the right to locate the
New Madrid certificate expired in April, 1823.
Nor does the act of 1843 support the shrvey of 1838, becauce it is not included
within the provisions of the act.
Whether or not the title acquired under the pre-emption is valid, is a question
not now before this court; because the case is brought up from the Supreme
Court of Arkansas under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, and the
decision of that court was in favor of the validity of the action of the register
and receiver; and, moreover, the opposing party cannot set up an outstanding
title in the United States. In order to bring himself within the rule of that
section, he must have a personal interest in the subject in litigation.
Th. claim set it- under a prior pre-emption was of no value, the land having
"en -eserved irom sale when a, .ffer to locate the prc-emptiou right was made.

