132

SUPREME COURT.
Le Roy e aZ. v. Tatham e al.

and was afterwards sold, and became the property of the
claimants.
Amongother things, the claimants pleaded to the jurisaction
of the court. This plea was sustained by the Circuit Court.
A contract for building a ship or supplying engines, timber,
or other jnaterials for her construction, is clearly not a maritime contract.
Any former dicta or decisions which seemed to favor a contrary doctrine were overruled by this court, in the case of the
People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, (20 How., 400.)
It is said here, that the law of Kentucky creates a lien in
favor of the libellants; and that, as this case originated before
the adoption of our rule, which took effect on the first of May,
1859, it may, upon the principles recognised by this court in
Peyroux v. Howard, (7 Peters, 843,) be enforced in the admiralty. But (to quote the language of the court in Orleans
v. Phoebus, 11 How., 184) "that decision does not authorize
any such conclusion. In that case, the repairs of the vessel,
for which the State laws created a lien, were made at New
Orleans, on tide waters. The contract was treated as a maritime contract, and the lien under the State laws was enforcedin admiralty, upon the ground that the court, under such circumstances, -hadjurisdiction of the contract, as maritime; and
then the lien, being attached to it, might be enforced according to the mode of administering remedies in the admiralty.
The local laws can never confer jurisdiction 6n the courts of
the United States."
It is clear, therefore, that the judgment ofth4 Circuit Court
dismissing the libel for want of jurisdiction, must be affirmed,
without noticing other questions raised by the pleadings.

THOMAS OTIS LE RoY AND DAVID SMITH, APPELLANTS, V. BEJAmNN TATHAM, JUN., HENRY B. TATHAM, AND GEORGE IT.
TATHAM.
The patent of the Tithams, for an improvement upon the machinery used fro
making pipes and tubes from lead or tin, when in a set or solid state, explained
.nd sustained.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

133

Le-Roy et al. v. Tatham et aL

Tnuis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of New York, sitting ia equity.
It was a bill filed by the Tathams against the appellants,
for an infringement of the patent for making lead pipe,
whicr is particularly described in a former case reported in
14 Howard, 156.
The Circuit Court decreed that John Hanson and Charles
-Hanson, of England, were the first and original inventors and
discoverers of the improvement in making pipes and tubes
from metallic substances, set forth and described in the bill
of complaint.
That the subject matter of the said invention and discovery
is patentable.
That the complainants are the legal patentees and owners,
within the United States, of the said invention and discovery,
set forth in the bill of complaint, which sufficiently describes
the same.
That the defendants have infringed and violated the said
patent right of the complainants in the manner charged in the
bill of complaint.
The court thereupon ordered a reference to a master to take
an account of the damages sustained by the complainants.
Upon the coming in of his report, sundry exceptions were
filed by the defendants, which were overruled, and the court
decreed the amount which the defendants should pay. An
appeal from this decree brought the case up to this court.
The facts'of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stoughton and Mr. Noyes for the appellants, and by Mr. Keller and Mr. God&ard for the appellees.
The principal ground upon which the counsel for the ap.
pellants sought to reverse the decree was, that the patent to
the complainants was void, because the Hansons were not the
original and first inventors of the improvements therein described and claimed.
The discussion of this proposition filled the court room with
mjdels and machines upon both sides, the description of which

SUPREME COURT.
Le Boy e aZ. v. Talkm d a&

would be of little interest to the readers of this volume.
will be, therefore, entirely passed over.

They

Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the final decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of N~few York,
on a bill filed by the appellees to restrain the infringement by
the appellanti of a patent for making lead pipe, and for
general relief.
A suit at law was commenced, after the filing of the bill, on
or about the. 10th of May, 1847, to recover damages for the
same infringement.
This action was twice tried-once on the 8d May, 1848, and
resulted in a verdict for the appellants, which was set aside
by the court, and a new trial awarded. It was tried in May,
1849, when the jury gave a verdict for the respondents for
$11,394 in damages. Exceptions were taken to the charge,
and the judgment was reversed, and a new trial rdered in
December term, 1852. 14 How.,.156.
Before this decision was made, and in January, 1852, it was
stipulated between the counsel for the respective parties that
the testimony taken on the last trial in the action at law
should be read; and it forms the principal part of the evidence
on both sides in this suit.
The action at law was not to be tried again; but the suit in
equity was prosecuted in its stead.
The patent under which the plaintifs claim bears date the
14th March, 1846; and in their schedule they say: "Our
invention consists incertain improvements upon and additions
to the machinery used for man.ufacturing pipes and tubes from
lead or tin, or any alloy of soft metals, capable of being forced;
by great pressure, from out of a receiver, through or between
apertures, dies, and cores, when in a set or solid state, set
forth in the specification of a patent granted to Thomas Bur,;
of Shrewsbury, in Shropshire, England, dated the 11th of
April, 1820, recited in the Repertory of Arts, &c., London, &c'"
The bill alleges that John and (harles Hanson, of England,
were the inventors of the ilriovenints specified, on or prior

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
L Ro e al. v. Tam

et al.

to the 31st of August, 1837; that on the 10th of January,
1840, the Hansons assigned to H. B. & B. Tatham, two of
the defendants in error, the full and exclusive right to said
improvements; that on the 29th March, 1841, letters patent
were granted for the improvements to the Tathams, as the
assignees of the Hansons; that afterwards H. B. & B.
Tatham assigned to G. N. Tatham, the remaining defendant,
an undivided third part of the patent.
On the 14th March, 1846, the said letters patent were surrendered, on the ground that the specifications of the improvements claimed were defective; and a new patent was issued,
which granted to the patentees, their heirs, &c., for the term
of fourteen years from the 31st August, 1837, -the exclusive
right to make and vend the improvements secured.
The defendants denied the infringement charged.
A great number of facts were proved, showing the success
ful manufacture of lead in the mode stated in the specifications,
and particularly that "pipes thus made are found to possess
great solidity and unusual strength, and a fine uniformity of
thickness and accuracy is arrived at, such as, it is believed,
has never been atained by any other machinery." And they
say the essential difference in the character of this pipe, which
distinguishes it, as well as that contemplated by Thomas Burr,
from all others heretofore known or attempted, is, that it is
wrought under heat, by pressure and constriction, from set
metal, and that it is not a casting formed in a mould.
"And it ivas proved, that in all the modes of making lead
pipe previously known and ib use, it could be made only in
short pieces; but that, by this improved mode, it could be
made of any required length, and also of any size; and th'at
the introduction of lead pipe made in the mode. described had
superseded the use of that made by any of the modes before
in use, and that it was also furnished at a less price." And it
was proved that lead, when recently become set, and while
under heat and extreme pressure, in a-close vessel, would reunite perfectly after a separation of its parts.
In .the case of the Househill Company v. Neilson, Webster's
Patent-Cases, 683, it is said: "A patent will be good, though

SIT]REM E COURT.
Le Roy et al. v. Tathan e al.

the subject of the patent consifts in the discovery of a great.,
general, and most comprehensive principle in science or law
of nature, if that principle is, by the specification, applied to
an y special purpose, so as thereby to effectuate a practical result and benefit not previously attained."
Mr. Justice- Clerk Hope, in his charge to the jury, said:
"The specification does not claim anything as to the form,
nature, shape, materials, numbers, or mathematical chaifaeter,
of the vessel or vessels in which the air is to be heated, or a,
to the mode of beating such vessels."
Now, in this cas it must not be forgotten that the machinery was not claimed as a'part of the invention; but the jury
were ingtructed to inquire "whether the specification was not
such as to enable workmen of ordinary skill to make machinery or apparatus capable of producing the effect get forth in
said letters patent and specification;" and that, in order to
ascertain whether the defendants had infringed the patent,
the jury should inquire whether they "did, by themselves or
others, and in contravention of the privileges conferred by the
letters patent, use machinery or apparatus substantially the
same with the ihachinery or apparatus described in the plaintiffs' specification, and to the effect set forth in said letters
and specification."
"Tow, as no specification was claimed in regard to the machinery, it is not perceived how the patent could be infringed,
unless upoh the principle that, having claimed no specific
.imode of applying the heat, he could use any mode he might
prefer, in defiance of the rights of other patentees.
Now, this cannot be law; certainly it is not law under the
patent act of this country. That act requires the making and
constructing "the thing, in such fall, clear, and exact terms
as to enable any person, skilled in the art or science to which
it appertains, to make, construct, and use the same."
Alderson B. Webster's Patent Cases, 342, says: "The distinction between a patent for a principle and a patent which
can be supported is, that you must have an embodiment of
the principle in some practical mode described in the specifi,.ation of carrying into actual effect; and then you take out.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

137

LeB oy et ai. v. Tatham"e aL

your patent, not for the principle, but for the mode of carrying the principle into effect."
"It is quite true, that a patent cannot be taken out solely for
an abstract philosophical principle-for instance, for any law
of nature or any property of matter, apart from any mode of
turning it to account. A mere discovery of such a principle
is not an invention, in the patent-law sense of the term."
Web. Cases, 683.
However brilliant the discovery of the new principle may
be, to make it useful it must be applied to iome practical purpose. Short of this, no patent can be granted. And-it would
no seem to be i work of much labor for a man of ingenuity
tq describe what he has invented.
The "newly-discovered property in the metal, and the practical adaptation of it, by these means, to the production of a
new result, namely, the manufacture.of wrought pipe out of
solid lead," was the discovery. "There can be no patent for
a principle; but for a principle so far embodied and connected
with corporeal substances as to be in a condition to act and to
produce effects in any trade, mystery, or manual occupation,
there may be a patent."
"It is not that the patentee conceived an abstract notion
that the consumption in fire-engines may be lessened; but he
discovered a practical manner of doing it, and for that he has
taken his patent. This is a very different thing from taking
a patent for a principle."
The principle may be the new and valuable discovery, but
the practical application of it to some useful purpose is the
test of its value.
In the case of Leroy v. Tatham, 14 How., 186, it was said,
"that in the view taken by the court in the construction of
the patent, it was not material whether the mere combination
of machinery referred to were similar to the combination used
by the Hansons, because the originality did not consist in the
novelty in the machinery, but in bringing a newly-discovered
1)rinciple into practical application, by which a useful article
is produced, and wrought pipe made, as distinguished from
uast pipe."

St'PREME COU]RT.
Le Roy et al. v. Tatham et aL.

Now, it inust be observed that the machinery used was admitted to be old, and any difference in form and strength must
airise from the mode of manufacturing the pipes. The now
property in the metal claimed to have been discovered by the
patentees belongs to the process of manufacture. The result
is before us. We see the manufactured article, and are told
that its substance is greatly modified and improved, but we
derive little or no knowledge from inspecting it. Exee.pt by
the known process of its formation, we cannot appreciate its
value, or comprehend the various purposes for which it was
made. We want to see and understand the processes by
which it was formed, the machinery in action, and a full explanatioh of its parts.
The claimants say: "We wish it to be understood that wo
do not confine ourselves to the mode of operation herein de.
scribed, by making the cylinder rise with the hydraulic ram
and other parts, and keeping the piston stationary, as the
same effects will take place when the cylinder is stationary,
and the power of the ram is applied to the top of the piston to
cause it to descend into the cylinder, and our improvements
might be applied to a cylinder and press, fitted up in other
respects upon Burr's plans, whereby the pipe is received over
the top of the machinery, &c., all which and other variations
will readily suggest themselves to any practical engineer, without departing from the substantial originality of our invention.
"The combination of the following parts above desbribed is
claimed, to wit, the core and bridge, or guide-piece, with the
cylinder, the piston, the chamber, and the die, when used to
form pipes of metal, under heat and pressure, in the manner
set forth, or in any other mode substantially the same."
To the above is added: ".We do not claim as our invention
and improvement any of the parts of the above-described m'achiuery, independently of their arrangement and combination
above set forth."
The machinery described in' both the above sentences is only
claimed when used to form pipes of metal under heat and pressure. And if must be admitted, that the machinery described
and illustrated by the drawings is sufficiently explicit to show

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Le Roy ci al. v. Tatam d al.

the nature of the invention. If it be admitted that thd machinery, or a part of it, was not new when used to produce
the new product, still it was so combined and modified as to
produce new results, within the patent law.. One new and
operative agency in the production of the desired result would
give novelty to the entire combination.
The specifications are drawn with care and no ordinary sll,
and they cannot be misunderstood. No one can be supposed
to miptake the new product for the mhachinery through which
it is developed. And in regard to a practical application of
the new conception, it is as necessary as the conception itself;
and they must unite.in the patent. "The apparatus described
is properly regard.ed by the patentees as subordinate, and as
important only as enabling them to give practical effect to the
newly-discovered property, by which they produce the new
manufacture." Certainly no comparison was instituted between the mechanical contrivance used,- and the new discovery.
In the case of Leroy v. Tatham, 14 Howard, 176, the court
instructed the jury, "that the originality of the invention did
not consist in the novelty of the machinery, but in bringing a
newly-discovered principle into practical use."
Principle is often applied to a machine to describe its moveinents and effect; and we are told that the originality of this
invention did not "consist in the novelty of the machinery,
but in bringing a newly-discovered principle into practical
effect." Whether the new manufacture was the result of
frequent experiments or of accident, it will be admitted that
the process has been demnnstratid to the satisfaction 'of all
observers; and this has been done in the mode described.
In the complicated and powerful machinery used to produce
this result, it is not perceived why it should not be adverted
to, as showing the most natural and satisfactory explanation
of the discovery. It is only necessary to examine the machinery combined, to see that its parts are dissimilar to others
in use; and there would seem to be no other reason for the
use of the new principle, to the exclusion of the mechanical
itructures employed, except a higher reach of knowledge

SUPREME COURT.

140

L- Boy et al.v. Tathan e al.

How.ever this may be, it would seem that, when dealing with
a patentable subject., its appropriate name should be given to
the machinery by which it was developed. The admitted
want of novelty in the machinery, referred to so frequently,
might invite criticism, if it were necessary, to the case in 14th
Howard; but the case now before us is in chancery, and. has
been deliberately considered.
Up to the year 1837, the date of Hanson's invention, two
methods only were known of making wrought pipe from lead,
in the set or solid state, and these were the Burr method and
the draw-bench method. As soon as the plan of the Hansons
was introduced, they superseded all other methods.
Both of the above methods were defective-the draw-bench
on account of the great labor, limited length of pipe produced,
and unequal thickness; and the Burr, because of the difficulty
of holding the core central in the die, in. forming pipes of
small calibre.
The superiority of the Burr method, for the general purposes
of manufacturing leaden pipes which require different sizes
to be made, was so slight, as it seems, that for seventeen years
after the date of the Burr p'atent, not one of such machines
Nwas put in use in the United States or in Europe.
In this combination of machinery there are six essential
parts:
First. A metal cylinder, capable of receiving the lead in a
fluid state, and permitting it to become set or solid therein,
and of great strength.
Second. A'piston, which is a solid metallic body, fitted to
the bore of the cylinder, to work therein accurately, to prevent
the charge of lead from escaping around it, and so connected
with'a hydraulic press, or other mptor of great power, as to
traverse the length of the cylinder with a force applied of several tons, to force out the charge of lead not in the liquid state.
Third. A die, which is simply a block of steel, with a central hole of a cylindrical form, and of a diameter of the pipe
to be made.

.

Fourth. A core, which is simply a short cylindrical rod of
stcl, oft
the'diameter of the calibro of the pipe to be miade.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

141

City of New Orleaus v. Gafiw .

Fifth. A bridge or core-holder, which is a plate of metal
with apertures, having four or more arms radiating from the
central part, which has a central hole of the size of the core.
Sixth. A chamber of construction, located between the
bridge and the die, and extending from the one to the other,
and -either conical or cylindrical, provided the end next the
bridge be made of greater diameter than the die.
It is rare that so clear and satisfactory an explanation is
given to the machinery which performs the important func.tions above specified. We are satisfied that the patent 'is
sustainable, and that the complainants are- entitled to the
relief claimed by them.
ORDER.

The cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel;
on consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that
the complainants in the court below are entitled to recover
from the defendants the sum of $16,815.57. Whereupon, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by this court,
that the same is hereby affirmed to the extent of the aforesaid
sum of $16,815.57, and that it be reversed as to the residdeL
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
the said Circuit Court, with .directions to enter a decree for
that amount in favor of the complainants. And it is further
ordered and decreed-by this court, that the costs in the court
below be paid by respondents in that court, the appellants
here, and that each party pay his own. costs in this court.

TEE Crr o

Nzw O

a&Nis, PI

n

x

nq EM ou, v. MYPA

CLARK GA IrS.
Where strwa were opened in New Orleans, a sum of inoney, s indemnity, W&S
alloved to G, as being the supposed owner of the property condemned.
D claimed to be the owner of the property, and brought a suit against the city
for the money, in which suit G was cited for the purpose of having the qaes:
tion decided, to whom the property belonged, and judgment was, rendered
against the city in favor of D.

