SUPREME COURT.
Unitd State v. Haraels Ezecdors.

THE UNITED STATES V. THE WIDOW, HEIRS, AND EOUTOS.
01F WILLIAM E. P. HAETNELL, DECEASED.
Ths law of Mexico, passed in 1824, directs that it shall not be permitted to unite
in one hand, as property, more than one league of irrigable land, four leagues
of farming land, and six for stock raising.
Therefore, where a person had obtained a grant of five leagues in Lower Call.
fornia, and another grant of eleven leagues in Upper California, and the Departmental Assembly held the law to be, that the Governor could iot unite in
the same hand more than elpven leagues, although it might be in different
tracts; the grant in Upper California must be restricted to six leagues.
It was necessary to its being definitively voted, that the grant of the Governor
should have the concurrence of the Departmental Assembly; and as they re

duced it, taking off five leagues, this was the state of the title, as respected
quantity, when the treaty with M1exico was made.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Snton for the United States, and by
Mr. Benham for the appellees.
Mr. Benham made the following points:
I. The court will not go behind the grant for the Cosumnes
to entertain the question how much land Hartnell had re
ceived, because the recitals of the grant show that the law
was satisfied. The grant is a judgment upon all questions of
law and fact involved in the transaction which it consumL
mated. The Mexicans always considered the granting of lands
an adjudication; they spoke of them, when granted, habitually

as terrenosadjudicados.
H1. But if the court do entertain the question, we say:
1. The maximum restriction found in, the twelfth section
of the colonization law of 1824 has only the effect of forbidding the granting of more than eleven leagues in one grant.
Any otLer construction is discountenanced by the policy and
objects of that law; it could make no difference how many
grants or how much land one man had, if-be occupied and
oultivated them.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

287

United State. v. HartneWs Ezecutors.

2. The maximum restriction did not curtail Micheltorena's
power. That power was extraordinary, and extended beyond
what the law of 1824 gave; it applied expressly to colonization, and was coextensive with that of Santa Anna, which
was defacto if not dejure dictatorial.
If Santa Anna's power was not dictatorial, he at least
thought so, and Micheltorena thought so, and Micheltorena
thought himself clothed with it, and exercised it to dispense
with the maximum restriction. ilartnell thought so too, and
gave the consideration of the grant, occupation and improvement. When the official held out that he possessed .the
power to grant, this court has confirmed, though he had no
such power.
3. The estate was only voidable at the worst. It cannot be
avoided in this proceeding. Every right or title unimpaired
at date of cession, is protected.
Act 3d March, 1851, secs. 8, 11.
4. The eitate is not voidable now in any proceeding. The
law by which it could have been avoided is abrogated. It
was political in its nature, and was abrogated upon the cession.
5. The grant must be confirmed for all the land. It is a
patent. It can only be contradicted by matter of record.
There is no matter of record which has that effect. The nonapproval by the Departmental Assembly, as has been shown,
though it may be regarded as matter of record, is not effectual
to contradict it, because that act i not competent to divest
the estate.
The other patent, (for Todos Santos y San Antonio,) which
disclosed the fact that Hartnell had already received a large
quantity of land, cannot be entertained as e'idence for that
purpose. It is dehors the patent for the Cosumnes land. If
our patent for Cosumnes granted more than eleven leagues,
then the illegality might be considered; but being legal on
its face, it cannot be invalidated but by judgment in denouncement or office found. Our allegation that we have had more
land has no effedt, for the question is not involved in the case.
4 Bibb, p. 830.
'r B. Monroe, V. 81.

288

SUPREME COURT.
.Vniied Siates v. HarlmWs Brzewtonri.

6. The grant muAt be confirfned, because the court cannot
know whether the grant for Todos Santos y San Antonio will
be confirmed or not. The decree of the District Court dismissed so much of the appeal as affected Todos Santos y San
Antonio, as has been stated; and if prosecuted, it had to be
done in the southern district of California. Whether any
appeal has been taken from the land commission's decree
relative to that grant does not appear, nor can appear, as no
new evidence can be taken here.
7. 'The maximum restriction did not affect the validity of
the grant. On the contrary, the grant was good in every part.
No invalidity could attach to the grant as affecting any particular portion of the land, until some proceeding, diminishing
the quantity, and segregating the portion withdrawn from the
residue, was had.
8. The maximum restriction did not apply to Mezican
citizens.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Hartnell got a grant from Governor Alvarado, dated June
28, 1841, for a boly-of land lying in Lower California. The
quantity is not specified in the grant, the out-boundaries only
being designated.
In November," 1844, he obtained another grant for eleven
square leagues, lying in Upper California. Both claims were
duly set forth in a petition seeking confirmation, before the
board of land commissioners, and they were confirmed,, with
modifications-the lower grant to the extent of five leagues,
and the upper for six leagues.
From this decree- the parties appealed, and brought their
cause to the District Court, held at San Francisco. That
court, sitting in the upper district, had no jurisdiction to reexamine the judgment of the board, as respected the five
leagues confirmed in the district of Lower California; gnd as
to that tract, the'appeal was dismissed, and therefore that title
stands confirmed.
There being, cross appeals, the question arises here, whetho
the uppgr grant should be confirmed for sjil leagues or for

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

289

United States v. HartneWs Ezeutors-.

(.leven-the grant of the Governor calling for the latter
quantity.
The Dist*r:ct Court adjudged six leagues as the proper quantity; and on this -single point the cause comes before usboth parties being satisfied with the decree below in all other
respects.
The narrow question is, had the Governor of California
power, in 1844. to grant gratuitously, f.r the purposes or
tillage, inhabitancy, and pasturage, more than eleven leagues
of land to any one person? Section 12 of the law of 1824
provides, that it shall not be permitted to unite in one hand,
as property, more tlhan one league of i'rigable land, four
leagues of farming land, not irrigable, and six for stock raising.
Both titles of Hartnell were brought before the Departmental Assembly. That body held the law to be, that the
Governor could not "unite in the same hand" more than
eleven leagues, although it might be in different tracts; and
so reported to him.
The public domain was the property of the Mexican nation,
and those who were enabled to displace that title, separate
portions of it from the public lands, and vest such portions
into individual proprietors ly perfected titles, could only do
so in the exercise of sovereign power, because the public title
was a sovereign light; and agents who assumed to exercise
this authority must show that they represented the nation.
The Governors of California do not show that they did represent the nation, so as to conclusively bind it; to have this effict,
the Governor's grant must have the concurrence bf the Departmental deputation. It follows, that the Assembly was
the controlling power, and could reform or nullify the Governor's graut; and having reformed it to the extent of five
leagues ir the case before us, the claimant came in under the
treaty of peace with Mexico, having no interest in these five
leagues. 8 How., 303, 804.
We have no doubt that the D6partmental Assembly, the
board of commissioners, and the District Court, construed
the law of 1824 (section 12) correctly, and order the decreE
below to be affirmed in all its parts.
VOL. XXII

19

