SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gaiews e al.

of the damages for extending the streets; but nothing appears
in the record showing that these documents were given in
evidence' on the trial; nor did the judge before whom the
cause was heard make huy statement of the facts found by
him, as the usuale practice is, where the Circuit Court in
Louisiana tries issues of fact without the intervention of a jury.
The cause its presented to us simply shows a judgment in
Mrs. Gaines's favor, with regular pleadings to warrant it; and
beyond this, contains nothing that this court can notice, as a
court of error.
It is ordered that the judgment below be affirmed.

JOHN C. HALE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.*'WILLIAM H. GAINES
AND MARIA GAINES HIS WIFE, ALBERT BELDING, HENRY

BELDING, AND GEORGE BELDING,

HEIRS AND LEGAL REPREMIDAN .

SENTATIVES OF LUDovIous BELDING, DMOEASED, DF

In an action of ejectment for the Hot Springs in Arkansas, wherein one party
claimed title through a pr.emption claim which they were allowed to enter
by the register and receiver, and the other party through a New Madrid
certificate, (the title of' the United States not being drawn into question,) the
former party had the better title.
There was no regular survey and location of the New Madrid certifieat -until
1838, a prior application for a public survey iu 1818, and certificate of a
private survey in 1820, being irregular.
The act of Congress of April, 1822, required these locations to be made within
one year from the date of its passage. Consequently, the right to locate the
New Madrid certificate expired in April, 1823.
Nor does the act of 1843 support the shrvey of 1838, becauce it is not included
within the provisions of the act.
Whether or not the title acquired under the pre-emption is valid, is a question
not now before this court; because the case is brought up from the Supreme
Court of Arkansas under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act, and the
decision of that court was in favor of the validity of the action of the register
and receiver; and, moreover, the opposing party cannot set up an outstanding
title in the United States. In order to bring himself within the rule of that
section, he must have a personal interest in the subject in litigation.
Th. claim set it- under a prior pre-emption was of no value, the land having
"en -eserved irom sale when a, .ffer to locate the prc-emptiou right was made.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

115

Hale v. Gim d al.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas, by a writ of-error, issued under the twenty.
fifth section of the judiciary act.
It was an action of ejeetment brought by William H. Gainer
and the other -defendants in. error against John C. Hale, to
recover the southwest quarter of section thirty-three, in town.
ship two south, of range nineteen west, containing one hundred
and sixty acres. This claim was under the pre-emption act
of Congress of the 29th of May, 1830, (4 Stat. at L., 420,)
-and the supplementary act of the 14th July, 1832, (4 Stat. at
L. 603.)
The defendant below (Hale) claimed to hold by virtue of
the fifth section of the pre-eniption act of the 12th April, 1814,
(3 Stat. at L., 122,) together with the act of 1st Marth, 1843,
(5 Stat. at L., 603.)
The jurisdiction of this court was therefore clear.
The action was brought in the Hot Springs Circuit Court.
(State court,) %.hich, after a trial; gave the following judgment:
"It is therefore considered by the court that said plaintiffs,
William H. Gaines and Maria Gaines his wife, Albert Belding, Henry Belding, and George Belding, do have and re.
cover of and from the said defendant, John C. Hale, as well
the possession of the-tract or parcel of land described in their
declaration in this behalf, as all that part of a certain tract or
parcel of land designated on the public surveys as the south.
west quarter of Isection thirty-three, in township two south,
of range nineteen west, which lies between a.dividing line
sometimes called Mitchell's line, heretofore established by one
Milus H. Wood and said Hale, between their respective possession on said quarter section and the northern or upper line
of a place in Hot Springs Valley, commonly called Texas, and
which part of said quarter section of land includes and em.
braces all the buildings, houses, out-houses, bath-houses, lots,
enclosures, and.gardens, connected with or pertaining to the
tavern stand, sometimes and generally known as Hale's tavern
stand, immediately below and south of the pyemises used and
occupied by Warren & Stidham as a tavern stand during
vor,. xxII.

10

SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gahm e aL.

the summer of the year 1851, and the said sum of five hundred
dollars for their damages sustained u.nthis behalf, and so as
aforesaid assessed by the jury, as aso all their costs in this
behalf expended to be taxed, &c. And it is ordered by the
court, that said plaintiffs do have execution hereof, by writ of
possession tor said land and premises, with com aand by levy
and collect the damages and cost aforesaid, as is by law in
such cases provided."
In 'the course of this trial, sundry bills of exceptions were
taken, which, for the purpose of this report, it is not necessary
to state particularly. Under them, the case was carried to
the Supreme Court of Arkansas, which affirmed the judgment
of the court below, except as to a question of damages, which"
need not be further mentioned.
The case was brought up to this court by a writ of error
issued under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Fredeick P. Stanton for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. May and Mr. Watkins, upon a
brief filed by Mr. May, Hr. Brent, and Mr. Watkfns, for the defendact in error.
Hir. Stanton, for the plaintiff in error, first attacked the title
of the Beldings, as between them and the United States; but,
as the court did not decide this point, .thd argument upon it
is omitted.
The next point was to show that the act of 1843 extended to
the benefit of pre-emptioners under the act of April 12th,
1814. As this was the principal point in the case, his argument is reported as follows:
The act of 1814, already referred to as the foundation of
Hale's title, relates back to the act of February 5th, 1813.
Stat. at Large, 2 vol., 797, 798.
These earliest among the pre-emption laws have no prohibition against a sale or transfer of the right derived under them,
and hence such transfers were always treated as valid until
eubsequent laws made them null. The record shows Hale's
title to be regularly derived from John Percifull, who settled

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

147

Hale v. Gais et at.

on the land in 1812, and continued to occupy it for many
years afterwards.
Although in 1814 the land in question was in the county
of Arkansas, one of the organized counties of the Missouri
Territory, and. therefore supposed to be subject to settlement
and pre-emption, the General Land Office subsequently held
the contrary, because the Indian title had not then been ex.
tinguished. By the treaty with the Quapaw Indians, made
November 15th, 1824, the lafid was ceded to the Government.
. The reservation act above quoted was passed April 20th,
1832.
The remedial act for the benefit of pre-emptioners under t]e
act of '1814 was passed on the 1st March, 1843, (5 Stat., 603;)
.and as everything depends on the construction of this law, it
is deemed proper to quote it at large; as follows:
'iA

act tb perlbct the titles to lands south of the Arkansas rliver, held under
New Madrid locations and pre-emption rights under the act of 1814.

.'Be it enacted, -c., That the locations heretofore made of
warrants issued under the act of 17th February, 1815, entitled
' An act for the relief of the inhabitants of the late county of
-New Madrid who suffered by earthquakes,' which we-e made
an the south side of the Arkansis river, if made in pursuance.
of the ptovisions of that act in ot.hier respects, shall be perfected
into grants in like manner as' if the Indian title to the lands
on the south side of said river had been completely extinguishthe time of the passage of said act.
ed a't
"SEc. 2. And be itfur/er enacted,*That in all cases in which
the locations so made, &c., may have been sold, &c.,. the owner
of the warrants, &c., shall have a right to enter other lands, &c.
"SEC. 8. And be it further enacted, That every settler on the
public lands south 'of the Arkansas river shall be entitled to
the same benefits accruing under the provisions of the preemption act of 1814, as though they had resided north of said

river.
"SEoC. 4. Be itfurtherenacted, That all Cherokee pre-emptionis
which have been or may be located * * * south of the
base line. in Arkansas, shall be confirmed, and patents shall
issue a in other cases."

SUPREME COURT.
Ed v. Gaines e al.

The Indian title to the lands north of the Arkansas river
had been extinguished by the treaty with the Osages, made
10th November, 1808.
7 Stat., 107.
In view of the rights of a bona fide settler on the Hot
Springs tract in 1814, does the act of 1843 repeal the reservation act of 1832? The department holds the negative. Yet
it is believed that the repugnance of the two statutes is such
that they cannot be construed to stand tpgether.
Not only the title, but the whole scope of the law, indicates
that the purpose of Congress was to remove the difficulty
arising fron the Indian title resting on the lands south of the
Arkansas in 1814, and subsequently. As a historical fact
bearing on this point, the court is referred to the report of the
committee which introduced the bill into the Senate. They
expressly say that, inasmuch as the Indian title' south of the
'Arkansas river had not been extinguished in 1814, and some
pre-emptions had on that account been decided to be unlawful, "the bill therefore provides that the settlers on both sides
of the Arkansas river shall be placed upon the same footing."
Sen. Rep. No. 86, 2d sess. 27th Cong.
The act of 1843 intended to confirm the pre-emption rights
south of the Arkansas river ab iniio-that is to say, it intended
to place the pre-emptor in the position he would have occupied
if the Indian title had been previously extinguished. That In.
dian *title was the only obstacle; and the professed object of
the law of- 1848 was to remove that obstacle, to cure that defect of title, and to give full force and effect to the law of
1814, south of the Arkansas as well as north of it.
,A remedial act shall be so construed as most effectually to
meet the end in view, and to prevent a failure of the remedy."
Dwar., Stat., 614.
"tBeneficial statutes, therefore, have always been taken and
expounded ultra the strict letter, but not, it is well and wisely
said, contrq the letter."
Ibid., 623.
"Every affirmative statute is a repeal of a precedent affirmative statute, where its matter necessarily implies a negative;

DEOEIBER TERM, 1869.

149

Hale v. Gaines e aL.

but only so far as it is clearly and indisputably contradictory
and contrary to the former act 'in the very matter,' and the
repugnancy .such that the two acts cannot be reconciled; for
then (eges poseriorespriores contrarkas abrogant."
Ibid., 530 to 531, and authorities there quoted.
The enactment of 1843 ib. that "every settler south of the
Arkansas shall be entitled." John Percifull was one of those
settlers, and he is included in the very words of the law-ab
much so as if the settlers had been enumerated and called by
name. The Hot Springs .were -reserved in 1832, but Joh
Percifull was settled there in 1814. The repugnance of the
two laws is "in the very matter;" they cannot stand together.
Against this construction have-been quoted:
Wilcox v. Jaekson, 13 Pet., 513.
-Gear v. Tnited States, 3 How., 120.
Of these, the latter alone deserves consideration, having an
apparent application to the case in hand.
In the case of Gear, a lead mine was claimed by pre-emption,
upon the ground that all the lands in a certain district were
directed to be sold by a law passed in 1834, which law made
some special exceptions, but did not except lead mines. This
court held that the general law of 1807, which reserved all
lead mines and salt springs from sale, was operative in the
district mentioned, notwithstanding the broad terms of the
law of 1834.
The facts 'of this case are almost the reverse of those now
before the court. The act of 1807 was a general law reserving all salt. springs and lead mines, and the policy of that law
had been thereafter uniformly and consistently maintained in
the disposition of all the public lands. On the other hand, the
act of 1832 was a special reservation of an isolated exceptional
tract of land, which at that time was already occupied by a
settler.
The act of 1834, in Gear's case, was an act of ordinary legislation, establishing a new district for the sale of lands, apparently not contemplating a departure from the general policy
prevailing in other land districts, and only indirectly and in
tbrentially affecting rights of pre-emptioi, which were not the

S (TPRE.ME COURT.
Hale v. Gaine3 et al.

primary object of the law. On the contrary, again, the act of
1843 was a special act, designed to operate retrospectively
upon a specified class of settlers, and to confirm a certain
number of pre-emiptions from their inception in 1814.
In Gear's case, from a series of laws in pari materia, and not
necessarily repugnant, i presumption is attempted to be raised
against the unifbrm well-settled policy of the laws, merely because the general terms of the last law do not exclude that
presumption; while in the Hot Springs case there is no mere
inferen6e or implication to be drawn from general expressions
or omissions, but there is an affirmative law, including this
particular oject in its veiy terms, and passed for that very
purpose.
. In the Gear case, the law might very reasonably be under..
stood to mean, "all the lands in this district shall be sold, aM
-far as the general policy of the laws allow such sales, and no"
further." In the present case, it would be necessary to interpolate in the law words of exception, thus: "Every settler on
-the public lands south of the Arkansas river," exicept the old
pioneer, John Percifull, shall be entitled, &c.; the remedial
policy of curing the defects of title under the act of 1814 shall
.not have its full effect; it shall cure everybody's title e.xcept
,John Percifull's.

Finally, in the one case, the general reservation was made long
before the party had performed any act out of which his claim
arose; in the other case, the act of settlement was performed
ldng before the reservation, and the remedial act comes afterwards to recognise the meritorious character of the oriinal
act, and to remove an obstacle which prevented itq operation
at the time, The act of 1843 goes a quarter of a century behind the act Of 1832, and legislates upon a particular state of
facts known to have existed at that early day.
There is-not a single argument used by the majority of the
court in Gear's case, which has any bearing whatever on the
present controversy. It is true there is one general expression, which is thought to cover this case, being a statement
of the abstract rule or principle of construction app'icable to
the facts. It is as follows:

151

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Hale v. Gaineset al.

"The rule is, that a perpetual statute, (which all statutes are,
unless limited to a particular time,) until repealed by an act
professing to repeal it, or by a clause or section of another act.
directly bearing in terms on the particular matter of the first
act, notwithstanding an implication to the contrary may be
raised by a general law which embraces the subject matter, is
considered still to be the law in force as to the particulars of
the subject matter.legislated upon."
It has already been shown that in the Hot Springs case there
is '"a section of another act directly bearing in terms on the
particular matter of the first act," inasmuch as the words
"every settler" necessarily comprehend the plaintiff in error.
Indeed, so far as this court knows or can know from this
record and the lhws, John Percifull was- the only settler in
1814 south of the Arkansas. There may have been others;
but if ther6 were not, then the law of 1843 woqld be without
any operation, unless this case should be included. It can
hardly be maintained that the construction of the law depends
upon the number of -cases included .within it, or that Percifall's interest in the law of 1843 is to be defeated or established, according to the fact that the benefit of it is or is not to be
shared by -others.*
But, again, referring to the abstract rule stated by the court,
as quoted above, it is not a-mere "implication," raised by the
act of 1843 against the reservation of 1832. Itis a special -and
direct contradiction or repugnancy "in the very matter," for
the reason already stated, viz: that the pre-emption on the
Hot Springs tract is as certainly included in the very words
* Since this brief was prepared and in print, I have received the following letter from the Commissioner of the General Land Office:
GENERAL LA'n OpnIc; January 26, 1859.
present:
F. P. STwNrox, Esq.,
Sm: Your letter of the 12th instant, desiring to be furnished with a statement
of the number of the-pre-emptions claimed under the third sectioi of the act of
1st March, 1843, entitled "An act to perfect the titles to lands south of the
Arkansas river," &c., has been received, and in reply I have to state, that with
the exception of the "Hot Springs" case, this office is not aware that any claims
*by pre-emption have been made under the. above-mentioned act.

Very respectfully, &c.,

THOMAS A. HENDRICKS,

Commi4sioner.

152

SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gajieset al.

and in the necessary intendment of the law, as if it had been
the only case of settlement south of the Arkansas river, in ihe
year 1814.
Quere. Does the case of Gear v. the United States establish
anything more than this: that a subsequent law directing lead
mines to be sold does not so far repeal the act of 1807 as to
make such mines subject to settlement and pre-emption?
The right of pre-emption not being the object of the law of
1834, but only an incident to the fact of lands being in market,
that incident does not attach in the prohibited cases of lead
mines and salt springs. If th~is be a fair statement of the point
decided in Gear's case, it is evidently not at all like the case
now before the cotirt, because, in the latter, the very object of
the law of 1848 was to confirm pre-emption rights themselves.
It has been already stated that the reservation act of 1832
presents a similar difficulty in the way of the Belding title
under the act of 1830 and the supplementary act of the 14th
July, 1832. But there is this difference in the two'cases: the two
acts-that of the 20th April, and that of the 14th July, 1832were passed at the same session of Congress, and of course,
according to the established rule of construction, must have a
more intimate relation than the acts of 1832 and 1843. Inasmuch as Belding had acquired no light under the act of 1830,
the reservation act of April might well be considered -s an
exception from the terms of the act passed in July following.
IUnlessthis act of 1843 be construed to repeal
the reservation act of 1832, it is admitted that no right accrues under the
act of 1814. The land office, haling uniformly maintained the
existing validity of the act of 1832, the parties to this record were
"neverin a condition to make proof of their right to the satisfaction of the register and receiver. In 1851, the J.cretary of
the Interior authorized an investigation, and it was then that
he allowed tlie heirs of Belding to make their entry,.as stated
above, although he still insisted that the land was reserved
from sale or entry-by the' law of 1832.
In the record will be found the proceedings. of the register
and receiver on the pre-emption claim of John Percifull. They
diffired in his casle as they did in that of Belding's heirs. If

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

153

ide v. Gaines et al.

these officers constitute a judicial tribunal, from which there
was no appeal under the laws of 1814 and 1880, then both
parties stand uron precisely the same footing; nor can it be
of any importance that the Secretary 3f the Interior has
undertaken to pronounce in favor of the one and against the
other. It was not his province to decide at all.
All the later pre-emption laws provide for an appeal to the
Commissioner, and finally to the Secretary. In the absence of
any appellate power, the general principle of law applicable
would pronounce the divided opinion to be equivalent to an
adverse decision.
But it may be that the register and receiver, or either of
them, have been so grossly partial, or so plainly regardless of
credible testimoiiy, as to give evidence of actual fraud. Is
the -false -decision of the register and feceiver, in such a case,
to preclude forever the just claims which have been either
corruptly, or capriciously and perversely, ignored?
In the case of Cunningham v. Ashley et al., 14 How., 377,
the register and receiver had not acted on the proof at all;
yet it was held that the proof ought to have been satisfactory
to them,, and this court decreed in favor of the pre-emption.
What is the distinction between refusing to hear proof at all,
and refusing to give it a fair and rational bearing upon the
rights of parties? According to the principle laid down in
Lytle v. the State of Arkansas, it is only when the register
and receiver "act within the law, and the decision cannot be
impeached for fraud or unfairness," that "it must be considered final."
In the cases quoted, however, the legal title had passed from
the United States, and was in litigation between the parties.
No such question is now presented to this court. Neither
party to the record has the legal title; that still remains in
the Government. The utmost result of the present. proceeding will be to transfer the mere possession from one party to
the other, without any power on the part of the court to compel the issuance of a patent. A however, the jurisdiction be
such as to authorize the court to determine the possession
according to the equitable rights of the'parties under all the

154

SUPREME COURT.
Halk v. Gai

e al.

acts of Congress, there can be no doubt that the-.department
will recognise and act upon the decision.
The action of the register and receiver being incomplete,
their judgment being inoperative, and the grant 6spended,
the courts must examine the facts, in order to ascertain which
party, under the laws, is entitled to hold the land. If, upon
the facts, the register and receiver ought to decide in fivor of
one, and the President ought to issue a patent accordingly, if
the case is still in'that condition which admits of doing justice
through the action of the executive officers themselves, even
undoing all that may have been improperly done, surely the
court will not hesitate to leave the naked possession with that
party which has the superior equity, and is entitled to remain
on the land.
The court below refused to hear any testimony, either to
invalidate the entry made by Belding's heirs, or to establish
the pre-emption right of John Percifull. No opportunity was
given to prove fraud, which would.make void the title of the
plaintiffs below. -The case must. be iseht back, in order that
the material facts may. be determined by ajury.
The Tew Madrd Locon.
This was not merely an outstanding title. Hale had purchased a portion of that interest, and produced it in his own
right, as adcfence to .the action. All testimony on this point
was excluded, although all formal objections. to the New
Madrid certificate and survey were waived.
Attorney General Reverdy Johnson thought thia. New
Madrid location good and valid.
5 vol. Opinions, 287.
ophi on, 80%.
Cushing. thought the contrary. & a

August, 1854.
The*following points are taken from the argument of 11r.
Watkins for defendants in error:
The New Madrid claim of Langlois, under which the plain.
tiff in error claims, is void, because it could not have been
located as alleged in 1819. The title of the Juappan Indiano

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

155

Hole v. Gainaefa.

to the land south of the Arkansa river had not been extinguished at the passage of the :New Madrid act of 1815.
2 Ins..and Opin., pages 158. 81, 91, 28, 10, 11, 13, 25,
and 816.
The claimant had only.a floating certificate of a right to
locate, and there was an application in his name, by third
persons, whose authority has not been proved, for a survey to
include the Hot Springs; but there was no official survey, nor
any record of it. Until returned to the recorder of land titles
at St. Louis, from whose quasi judicial office the title emanated, and approved by him, and the claimant had reconveyed his injured laud to the United States, and received a
patent certificate from the recorder, no location could tike
place, so to give him a vested right to the land in question.
Down to that period, and uitil the exchange of land took
place, the claimant was not bound, but might abandon his
proposed location, or change it for another, or sell his float,
or elect to keep his injured land; and so the United States
would be freb to grant or dispose of its own land in any lawful
way. A location begun, but not ended, is no location.
Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 486.
Barry v. Gamble, 3 Howard, 51.
Lessieur v. Rice, 12 Howard, 60.
Cabune v. Lindel, 12 Missouiri, 184.
Kennett v. Cole, 13 Missouri, 140.
At the time of the alleged location, in 1820, no location
could have been made in Arkansas Territory, because Congress, by'the act creating that Territory, had diminished the
area of location. Noi liad the land in question been attached
to any land office. It had not been surveyed, and was in no
sense authorized to be sold.
Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 284.
Mills v. Stoddard, 8 Howard, 365.
Easton v. Salsbury, 23 Missouri, 100.
None of the subsequent New Madrid acts affect this case,
so as to cure a defective location where none had been made,
or where, if made, it would have been void.
]n 1838, on application to the -nrveyor general of Arkan.

SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gaines et at,

sas, a survey was made, and re.turned to the recorder of land
titles in .M-issouri, who- issued a patent certificate to Langlois.
These proceedings were void, because those officers bad no
power over the subject. Arkansas was then a State, and no
such location could be made. By the act of 26th April, 1822,
the time for making locations had absolutely expired.
See .Easton v. Salsbury, 21 Howard, 426.
So far as concerned the rights of the United States, this
land bad been reserved- and any location of it forbidden by
act of 20th April, 1832. And the land was appropriated to
the Belding pre-emption by the act of 29th May, 1830, at
which time the right of the pre-emptor became vested.. For
like reasons, this New Madrid claim is not aided by the act
of March 1st, 1843, which is in.general terms, and might well
apply to locations made during the life of the law, and valid in
%11 other respects, except the one that act was intended to cure.
The Belding pre-emption is valid, notwithstanding the act
af,20th April, 1832. The right of the pre-emptor had become
vested on .the 29th May, 1830. By the act of 14th July, 1832,
he, is well as all persons so entitled, were allowed until after
the completion of the public surveys td-make proof and payment. Congress, no more than. the settler, could know, in
advance of the public surveys, on what tract his improvement
would fall; and, taking the acts of the same session in part
mate2ia, the reservation act must be construed to prohibit any
future- location or entry, but not to impair a right already
vested, or to take the land of one man, and reserve or grant
it .o another. Unless the pre-emption vested on the 29th
May, 1830, the grant was illusory; and Congress, .by the act
of. 14th July, 1832, recognised its plain duty of completing
the publi- surveys, so as to enable claimants to comply with
the conditions of the original law.' All the decisions sustain-

ing pre.pmption rights as against .a subsequent grantee of the.
Government, proceed upon the idea, that pre-emption acts,
like other.laws ofihring rewards upon conditions, are proffered
contracts. When the conditions are complied with, the preemptor has a title by contract, with relation to the acte done,
determining the period of time when the right vested.

DECEMBER TERiM, 1859.

157

H lae
v. Gaines d a7.

Lytle v. the State, 9 Howard, 334.
McAfee v.'Keirn, 6 Smedes and Marsf., 789.
Taylor v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234.
MeArthur .v. Browder, 4 Wheaton, 448.
Fenley'v. Williams, 9 Craneh, 164.
Isaa.s v. Steele, 3 Scam., 79.
Benner v. Manlove; ib., 339.
No reservation or appropriation can prevail against a pre.
"emption right, unless it existed at the passage of the act, as
was expressly held in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 511, and
Uniteq States .v. 'Fittgerald,- 15 Peters, 407. This precise
question was adjudicated by this court in Lytle v. the State,
9 Howard, 834, and Bernard v. Ashley, 18 Howard, 45, where
the question was between a pre-emption claim -under the act
of 1830, and grants made by Congress, after that act had expired, and before the act of 14th July, 1832.
This court has jurisdiction to sustain an equitable title,
made a legal one by State legislation, subordinate to the
powers of Congress, even though the rights of the United
States be incidentally drawn in question. The only inquiry
is, have the State courts correctly interpreted the laws of
Congress?
United States v. Fitzgeral4; 15 Reters, 407.
Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 511.
Carroll v. Safford, 3 Howard, 441.
Ross v.Barland, 1 Peters, 656.
Clark v. Smith, 13 Peters.
Bagnell v.Broderick, ib., 451.
Irvine v.Marshall, '20 Howard, 558.
Rector v.Gaines, 19 Ark., 80.
In Fenn -. Holme,*21 Howard, 481, the plaintiff in eject.
ment- had no location, but a mere floating right; and the
scope of the decision is limited to actions commenced in the
United States courts.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
A contest for the ownership of the Hot Springs, in Arkanls, has been pending for some years before the General Land

SUPREME COURT.
Hare v. Gainega&

Office, and in the courts of that State. One party derive their
title through a pre-emption claim, as an occupant under the
acts of Congress of 1830 and 1832, and the other by the
location of a New Madrid warrant on the same land.
In December, 1851, the heirs of Belding were allowed to
enter the quarter section, including the springs. This entry
was held to be valid by the State courts, and to clothe them
with a sufficient legal title to sustain an action of ejectment,
according to the laws of Arkansas. They held the decision
of the register and receiver, in favor of the occupant claimants,
to be conclusive evidence of title, as against all persons who
could not show a better opposing claim.
As between the titles of the United States and Belding's
heirs, the State courts did not decide; bat only, that the outstanding title in the United States could not be relied on by
the defendant in this action; nor is the validity of the entry
.f Belding's heirs drawn in question in this court.
The defendant relied on a survey made in June, 1838,
founded on a New Madrid certificate for 200 arpens.
To support this survey, an application was produced, dated
27th January, 1819, signed by S. Hammond and Elias Rector,
addressed to William Rector, surveyor of the pLblic lands,
&c., asking to have surveyed and to be allowed to enter the
recorder's certificate for 200 arpens, granted by him to Fmneis
Langlois, or his legal representatives, and dated the 26th
November, 1818, (No. 467.) The survey to be made in a
square tract; the lines to correspond to the cardinal points,
and to include the Hot Springs in the centre. In 1818, the
spring was in the Indian country, to which, of course, no
public surveys extended. And as the act of 1815, providing
for the New Madrid sufferers, only allowed them to enter their
%varrantson lands "the sale of which was authorized by law,"
the unsurveyed land3 could not be legally appropriated; and,
of necessity, the surveyor general disregarded the application
to have a survey made for Langlois. And thus the claim
stood from 1818 to 1838.
The defendant offered in evidence the certificate of a private
survey of tie claim of Lauglois, made by James S. Conway,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

159

Huke v. Gaines di aZ.

D. S., dated July 16th, 1820, which includes the spring. This
paper the court also rejectel.
Until the survey on Langlois's claim was presented to the
recorder of land titles at St. Louis, and recognised by him as
proper and valid, it could have no force, as this was the only
mode of location contemplated by the act of 1815. So it has
been uniformly held. Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436;
Lessure v. Price, 12 Howard, 9.
The sct of April 26th, 1822, validated locations of New
Madrid certificates then existing, and which had been made
in advance of the public surveys; but the second section of
the act declared that future locations should conform to the
public surveys, and that all such warrants should be located
within one year after the passage of that act.
As the public surveys then existing in Missouri and Arkansas Territory were open to satisfy these claims, there was no
diffculty in complying with the act of 1822.
Reliance is placed on the act of Congress of March, 1843,
to maintain the survey of 1838, of the New Madrid certificate.
That act provides, that locations before that time made on
New Madrid warrants,'on the south side of Arkansas river, if
made in pursuance of the act of 1815 in other repects, shall
be perfected into grants, in like manner as if the Indian title
to the lands on the south side of the river had, been completely
extinguished at the time of the passage of said act of 1815.
The act of 1843 does not apply to the survey and location of
Langlois made in 1838, for several reasons:
1. The sale of the land thus surveyed was not authorized
by law; the act of April 20th, 1832, having reserved -from
location or sale the Hot Springs, and four sections of land
including them as their centre.
2. The attempted location was void, because barred by the
act of 26th April, 1822, which act was not repealed or modified
by the act of 1843. This act referred to locations made on
the south of the river Arkansas, of lands regularly surveyed
and subject to sale, and which locations had been made on or
before the 26th April, 1823, when the bar was interposed.
We are of the opinion that the New Madrid survey of 1838

SUPREME COURT.
Hale v. Gahme et al.

was altogether invalid, and properly -rejected by the State
courts.
It has been earnestly pressed on our consideration, that the
entry of Belding's heiis is also void, because the land it covers
was not subject to entry by an occupant claimant, or any one
else, after the act of April 20th, 1832, had reserved it from
sale.
Admitting it to be true, that the act of April, 1832, was
passed when no individual claimant had a vested right to
enter the land in dispute, still the 25th section of the judiciary
act only gives jurisdiction to this court in cases where the
decision of the State court draws in questicn the validity of
an authority exercised under the United States, and the
decision is against its validity. Here, however, the decision
was in favor of the defendant's entry, and sustained the
authority exercised by the department of public lands, in allowing Belding's heirs to purchase. Moreover, the plaintiff in
error is not in a condition to draw in question the validity of
Belding's entry. He relies on an outstanding title in -the
United States to defeat the action. Being a trespasser, with.
out title in himself; he cannot be heard to set up such title
"To give jurisdiction to this court, the party must claim for
himself, and not for a third person, in whose itle he has no
interest." Henderson v. Tennessee, 10 How., 323. The plaintiff in error must claim (for himself) some 1itle, right, privilege, or exemption, under an act of Congress, &c., and the
decision must be against his claim, to give this court jurisdiction. Setting up a title in the United States, by way of
defonce, is not claiming a personal interest affecting the
subject in litigation. This is the established construction o'
the 25th section of the judiciary act. Montgomery v. Herandis, 12 Whea., 132.
. If it was allo~ved to rely on the United States' title in this
instance, the right might be decided against the Government,
where it was no party, and had not been heard.
A claim is set up in defence, that John Percifull was entitled
to a preference of entry under the act of 1814; which act, it
is ihsisted, was revived by that of 1843, section 3. Suppose

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
GonzaWe

161

v. United States.

that Percifull's right to appropriate the land in dispute was
undoubted, and that the register and receiver had allowed the
heirs of Belding to enter wrongfully; still, the courts of Arkansas, in this action of ejectment, had no right to interfere,
and set up Percifull's rejected claim.

But this is of little consequence, as, when the act of April,
1832, was passed, reserving the Hot Springs from sale, IPercifull had "no vested interest in'the land that a court of justice
could recognise. Then, the United States Government was
the legal owner, and had th power to reserv it-m
sale*_so
that the offer to purchase iu 1851, under the assumed -preference to entry claimed for Percifull, was inadmissible. Had ile
entry been allowed, in face of the act of Congress, such proceeding would have been merely void.
These being the only questions withief our jurisdiction
worthy of consideration in the causes Nos. 15, 16, 17, 18, and
*19, it is ordered that the respective judgments rendered there
in by the Supreme Court of Arkansas be affirmed.

JuAw JosE GoNzALEs, APPLL"T, v. THE UNnBD STATES.
Where a grant of land in California describes it by name and boundaries, and
then states that the land of which donation is made is one league in length
and three-quarters of a league in breadth, a little more or less, as shown by
the map.which goes with the expediente, with the usual reservations of the
sobrante or overplus to the use of the nation, the grant will be confirmed to
the extent of one league in length and three-quarters of a league in breadth,
without extending it to the boundaries mentioned..

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of Oalifornia.
All the title papers are set forth in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Hepburn, upon a brief filed by himself and Mr. Volney -. Howard, for the appellant, and by Mr.
Stanton for the United States.
VOL. XXI1.
11

