SUPREME COURT.
Foster et al. v. Davenport et al.

controversy, and probably will continue to be, both by the
bench and the bar, in fixing the true boundary line between
the power of Congress under the commercial grant and the
power reserved to the States. But in all these discussions, or
nearly all of them, it has been admitted, that if the act of
Congress fell clearly within the power conferred upon that
body by the Constitution, there was an end of the controversy.
The law of Congress was supreme.
These questions.have arisen under the quarantine and health
laws of the States--laws imposing a tax upon imports and
passengers, admitted to have been passed underothe police
power of the States, and which had not been surrendered to
the General Government. The law3 of the States have been
upheld by the court, except in cases where they were in conflict, or were adjudged by the court to be in conflict, with the
act of Congress.
Upon the whole, after the maturest consideration the court
have been able to give to the case, we are constrained to hold,
that the act of the Legislature of the State is in conflict with
the Constitution and law of the United States, and therefore
void.
The judgment of the court below is reversed.

PHINEAS 0: FOSTER, ROGER A. HEIRNE, AND GEORG. J. BLAKESLEE, OWNERS OF THE STEAMBOAT SWAN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
V. GORHAM DAVENPORT AND OTHERS, CoMmIssIoNERs or PILOTAGE OF THE BAY AND HARBOR OF MOBILE.
The principle established in the preceding case extends also to a steamboat
employed as a lighter and towboat, sometimes towing vessels beyond the
outer bar of the bay, and into the gulf to the distance of several miles,
The character of the navigation and business in wbich this boat was employed
cannot be distinguished from that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded
were engaged. The lightering or towing was but the prolongation of the voy
age of the vessels assisted to their port of destination.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Alabama.
The case was similar to the preceding one of Sinnot and others

DECEMBER TERM, 1859

245

Foaer d al v. Davnport et al.

v. Davenport, except that the steamboat Swan was employed
as a lighter and towboat upon waters within the State of Alabama. It was therefore insisted that she was engaged exclusively in the domestic trade and commerce, and consequently
could be distinguished from the preceding case. Both were
argued together by the same counsel.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama.
The case is, in all respects, like the one just decided, except
it is insisted that the steamboat was employed as a lighter and
towboat upon waters within the State of Alabama, and therefore engaged exclusively in the domestic trade and commerce
of the State.
According to the admitted state of facts, this boat was engaged in lightering goods from and to vessels anchored in the
lower Bay of Mobile, and the wharves of the city, and in towing vessels anchored there to and from the city, and, in some
instances, towing the same beyond the outer bar of the bay,
and into the Gulf to the distance of several miles. This boat
was duly enrolled and licensed to carry on the coasting trade
at the time she was engaged in this business, and of the seizure
und6r the State law.
It also appears from the answer, aid which facts are admit
ted to be tri-e, that the port of Mobile is resorted to and frequented by ships and vessels, of different size in tonnage,
engaged in the trade and commerce of the Unied States with
foreign nations and among the several Stat.es; that the vessels
of small size and tonnage are accustomed to come up to the
wharves ofb the city, and discharge their cargo, but that large
vessels frequenting said port cannot come np, on account of
the shallowness of the waters in some parts of the bay, and are
compelled to anchor at the lower bay, and to_ discharge and
receive their cargo by lighters; and that the steamboat of
claimants was engaged in lightering goods to and from said
vessels, and in towing vessels to. and from the lower bay and
tlu wharves of the city.

246

SUPREME COURT.
ollins v. Thompson et al.

It is quite apparent, from the facts admitted in the case, that
this steamboat was employed in aid of vessels engaged in the
foreign or coastwise trade and commerce of the United States,
either in the delivery of their cargoes, or in towing the vessels
themselves to the port of Mobile. The character of the navigati')n and business in which it was employed cannot be distinguished fron that in which the vessels it towed or unloaded
were engaged. The lightering or towing was but the prolongation of the voyage of the vessels assisted to their port of destination. The case, therefore, is not distinguishable in principle from the one above referred to.
Judgment of the court below reversed.

SIDNEY . COLLINS, APPELLANT, v. DRuRY TompsoI ; WILLIAM
F. CLEVELAND, AND JAmES CAMPBELL'S WIDOW, HEIRS, ANI
DEviss.
Where the complainant set up in his bill that a deed, power of attorney, and

other writings, all which, as alleged, were executed in contemplation *of a suit
for the recovery of his patrimonial inheritance of which he had been unjustly
deprived, were obtained by imposition. and fraud, and also that. a deed, executed by him in the adjustment of the estate among the parties participating
in the litigation to recover it, was obtained by like fraud and imposition, held,
that upon the pleadings and proofs, the allegations are not sustained ; on the
contrary, the transactions in both respects referred to were fair, open, and

unexceptionable.

Ta:s was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the southern district of Alabama.
It was a bill filed by Collins, to set aside certain agreements,
upon the ground that he-had been imposed upon and deceived
by Thompson and the other defendants in error.
The facts are all stated in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and Collins appealed
to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Swall for the appellant, and by Xv.
Smith and Mr. Benjariinfor the appellees.

