SUPREME COURT
Ogilvie at at. v. Xiwz lh~rance Co. eg

2. That by the virtue of the said :acts, and of the said
election in the declaration set forth, the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad Company acquired no such right to the subscription
of the defendants as would be protected by the Constitution
of the United States against the new Constitution of Indiana,
which took effect on the 1st day of November, 1851. 'Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

AnAm OGILVIE AND) OTHERS, .APPELLANTS, -v. Tim, Ki~ox

Insu-

RANCE COMxPANY, LEVI SPARKS, AND OTHERS.
In a bill by judgment creditors against an incorporated insurance company and
its stockholders, to compel the latter to pay up the balance due on their eav-

eial subscriptions to the stock, they cannot be allowed to defend themselven
by an'allegation that their subscriptions were obtained by freud end misrepre-

sentation of the agent vf the company.
It is too late, after the investment is found to be unprofitable, and debts are in.
* curred, for stockholders to withdraw their subscriptions, under such a pretence
or plea.
It is not a sufficient objection to the bill, for want of proper partiesi,-that l the
creditors or stockholders are not sued. If necessary, the court may, at the
its azzeta
suggestion of either party that the corporation is insolvent, admini
by a receiver, and thus collect all the subscriptions or debts to the corporation.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana.
It -was a bill filed on the equity side of the court, by Ogilvie,
Angle, & Co., traders iu partnership in Iowa, together with
twelve other persons, citizens of Missouri, Ohi6, and Michigan, against the Knox Insurance Company, and against Levi
"Spa'rksand thirty-six other persons, subscribers to the capital
stock of the company. Being a creditor's bill, filed by the
complainants and such other creditors as might make themselves parties, thirty-two other creditors came in and made
themselves parties to the suit. • The bill alleged that the complainants had recovered divers judgments against thd insu.
vance company, upon which executions had issued, the return

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

-881

Ogilvie t a. v. Knox Inwurance Co. d aZ.

to -whichbad been, "no property;" that the other defendants
severally subscribed for stock in the company, and were still
indebted for it, payment not having been enforced by the company. The prayer of the bill was, that they might be decreed
to pay their subscriptions, and that the judgments might be
satisfied from the fund thus produced.
At the September rules, 1852, the bill was taken pro confesso
against all the defendants; but afterwards they all (except
the company) appeared, demurred, and, upon the demurrer
being overruled, answered. The securities, being the subscription notes, were brought into court. Collum's answer
was adopted by most of the other defendants, which answer
is particularly noticed in the opinion of this court. After
sundry other proceedings, not necessary to be mentioned, the
court dismissed the bill, and-tfae complainants appealed to this
court.
It was argued by Mr. Gllet for the appellants,. upon which
side there was also a brief filed by Mr. Judah, and submitted
on a printed argument by Mr. Crawford for the appellees.
The points made by the counsel for the appellants were, of

course, similar in substance. The following were the fourth
and fifth points of Mr. Giet, and the third and fourth of Mr.
Judah:
Mr. Gillet:
IV. The subscriptions and obligations of the defendants are
not void, or voidable, even if it shall be admitted that the facts
set up in their answers are true.
The defendants do not aver that the company authorized
the false representations complained of, or that they approved
of them after they were made. Nor do they aver that they
repudiated the transaction aw soon as they learned the true
state of things. Nor do they state that they offered to restore
things to their original condition. They set up that, on the
25th of June, 1851, more than a year afterwards, they would
have nothing more to do with the company, nor would tney
pay their notes, or bills. -This was about a year after the)

SUPREME COURT.
Ogilvie ae al. v. Knox Insurance Co. d ai.

knew of the heavy losses. In order to defeat their liability,
they must connect the company with the fraud alleged. This
they have wholly failed to do, both in their answers and evidence. An unauthorized falsehood, told by their agent, was
no act of theirs, and they cannot be held responsible for it.
If Carnan misrepresented the condition and affairs of the
company, that was a matter between him and those who subscribed on the strength of the representation. It was he, and
not the company, that deceived them. The answers do not
set up a legal defence to the defendant's obligations. They
do not even aver that they offered to restore things to their
original condition. They do not allege that they returned, or
offered to return, the stock to be cancelled. Nor do they state
that they asked the company-to do anything at all. They kept
the consideration of their obligations, and at the same time
repudiated them, not because the company had deceived them,
but because Carnan told them two falsehoods, as they aver.
As they have presented their case by their pleadings, the defendants have no defence to their obligations.
"It (a corporation) is not, however, responsible for unauthorized or unlawful acts, even of its officers, though done
colore officii. To fix the liability, it must either appear that
the officers were expressly authorized to do the act, or that it
was done bona fide, in pursuauce of a genQral authority in relation to the subject of it, or that the act was adopted or ratified by the corporation."
Angel and Ames, pp. 250, 251.
In Thayer v. Boston, (19 Pick., 516, 517,) Chief Justice
Shaw used the same language.
The answers in the present case do not aver what is here
required to be proved, to make the corporation liable for any
supposed wrong on the part of Carnan.
V. The fact that from May, when the true amount of the
Vincennes stock must have been known by the Jeffersonville
stockholders, to the middle of August, no complaint was made
on that account, is conclusive evidence that the defendants did
not consider themselves injured by that fact.
The widemce is explicit and clear, that in April, 1850, Ryan

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

88

Ogvie el al. v. Kox )Isuranwe Co. d al.

made out a statement, truly showing the condition of the company, and that it had some $25,000 or $26,000 of surplus on
hand, and of course showed that there was no $40,000 of Eastern exchange. It also showed the amount of stock, because
it was the same statement shown to Savitz and Hughs in
August, and Savitz swears that he then noticed that the whole
stock of the company amounted to only $97,000. Now, it appears that Carnan took this statement to Jeffersonville in May,
1850, and there showed it. He states that he never showed
any other statement to them there; the stockholders then
knew that $75,000 had not been subscribed at Vincennes.
He swears he told them that he was sorry that they had taken
$67,000, because it was a good deal more than had been taken
at Vincennes, and he proposed to go and increase the stock at
the latter place. But the Jeffersonville subscribers objected,
because they wanted the smallest possible amount of stock to
spread the anticipated dividend over. They then knew the
facts as well as they ever did, and did not object, as they
would have done, if they had thought themselves injured by
the smallness of the Vincennes subscription. Not even a hint
of complaint escaped the Jeffersonville subscribers until the
middle of August, and then no formal objection made, nor for
a very long time. They would not have been thus silent, if
they had been really wronged.
Mr. Judah:
IL. But further, admitting the charge of fraud to be proven,
and that defendants relied on the representations, the defendants cannot protect themselves by it. It is too late.
When a party has the right to rescind, repudiate, on the
ground of fraud, "he must do so at once, on discovering the
fraud."
2 Parsons Cont., 278.
At the earliest moment after he has knowledge of the
fraud.
Masson v. Burt, 1 Denio, 69.
2 Parsons Cont, 278, note S.
Any delay is a waiver, and mere lapse of time may be con
elusive.

SUPREME COURT.
0givi el al. v. Knu Inmuraiwe Co. et al.

2 Parsons Cont., 279.
The party must act-promptly, and rescind in toto.
Wheaton v. Baker, 14 Bart., 594.
Mann v. Worral, 16 Bart., 221.
But these men bad the statement, called paper Z, on 4th
May, 1850, and yet, up to the 4th June, increased their subscriptions $10,500, as appears by the dates of the securitiea,
bill, and answers; and these men had the report of their committee, and the statement called W, in August or September,
1850-full knowledge of all the facts. And yet, between the
28th of September and 4th of October, these men, and amongst
them Cullom, on his own stock, renewed their securities on
225 shares and $22,500. This whole defence is an afterthought.
IV. If these defendants might set up this fraud against the
company, or their co-stockholders, they cannot set it up against
the creditors of the company.
Suppose A, by fraud, induces B to become his partner in
the firm of A & Co.; that A, in the name of A & Co., purchases goods for the firm on credit, and that, before payment
is made, or even due, B discovers the fraud, and immediately
rescinds for the sufficient fraud, what will be the effect on the
sellers of the goods, creditors of the firm?
In such case, who will suffer? Nay, who should suffer?
The rule is, that when one of two innocent parties must suffer
by the fraud of a third party, he of the two who afforded the
means, or gave the credit, must bear the loss.
Story on Agency, see. 127, pp. 142, 143, and note 1.
Story's Eq. Jur., sees. 384, 885, 386, 387, 388.
Hiorns v. Holtom, 13 Eng. L. and E., 596.
So long as a man is a partner or a stockholder, however innocently, as relates to third and also innocent parties, he
bhould suffer the consequences.
These men represented two-thirds of the capital; they had
their names in the firm as stockholders, directors, officers.
Only some of the arguments of the counsel for the appellees
can be given, and those are selected which are replies to the
arguments upon the other side.

DECUMBEIR TEIN, 1865,.
Ogilvie et al. v.

865

iwx Injurance Co. et al.

The plaintiffs have objected, that if Carnan did practice
this fraud upon the defendants, it was his own wrong only;
the insurance company did not authorize it, nor ought she to
be affected by it. It is true she had the alternative to reject
or adopt the unauthorized acts of her agent. If she had rejected them, there would have been no contract between her
and the defendants. But she chose to adopt them, and therefore she took them tainted as they were.
Chit. Con., 679; 2 Par. Con., 276, and n. (a); i Story Eq..
Jur.,"sec. 256.
Doggett v. Emerson, 3 Story, 785.
Atwood v. Small, 6 Cl. and Fin., 448.
Mason v. Crosby, 1 Woodb. and M., 842.
Jeffrey v. Bigelow, 13 Wend., 518.
Swatara R. R. .Co. v. Brune, 6 Gill, 41.
Crump v. U. S. Mining Co., 7 Gratt., 352. '
But the plaintiffs contend, that if the fraud has been
ever so strongly proved, and it has not been waived, and
might be-a good defence in a suit brought by the insurance
company, yet it is no d efence against them. They claim to
have a peculiar equity.
Yet their complaint alleges thatthe defendants severally
made. the subscriptions, notes, and bills, stated in it, and the
issue joined; and the very question therefore to be tried is,
as to their validity. It follows that the plaintiffs must prove
them to be valid and binding on the defendants, or they do
not maintain the issue. If the transactions are void on account
of the fraud, then there is legally no subscription, note, or bill.
The plaintiffs, allege that there are debts due from the
defendants respectively to the insurance company, which she
has failed to collect, and they pray that the defendants may be
decreed to pay, so that the plaintiff' judgments may thus be
satisfied. In effect, they ask to be substituted in the place of
the insurance company, and to be permitted to enforce. the
payment of debts which she has wrongfully neglected to
enforce. This is the whole amount of all the'right set forth
in the complaint, and of the prayer with which it' concludes.
Then, if there is no valid debt due from afiy of the defendants
VOL. XXII.

.

25

SUPREME COURT.
Ogilvie d al. v. K rwInsurance Co. et a.

to the insurance company, there is no matter alleged in tbe
complaint on which the plaintiffs can recover. By being substituted in place of the insurance company, and allowed to
assert her rights, the plaintiffs can acquire no greater rights
than she had; and where she had none, they acquire none.
Hyde v. Lynde, 4 Corn., 887; In matter of Howe, 1 Paige,
125.
Mech. Bank v. N. York and W. Hay. R. R. Co., 8 Kern,
599.
Roberts v. Alb. and W. Stock. R. R. Co., 25 Barb., 662.
If the insurance company had before sued the defendants
severally on their notes and bills, and, upon the trial, judgments had been rendered against her on account of the fraud,
we submit that such judgments would be a bar to this action;
for these plaintiffs come in as privies only, asking the enforcement of her right which she has neglected to enforce. So, if
these defendants had filed their several complaints against the
insurance company for relief, on account of the fraud, and the
court had decreed their notes and bills were void, and should
be given up, evidently such decrees would be a bar to this
suit. And it is, as a general proposition, true, that what would
be good matter of defence against the insurance company
would be good also against the plaintiffs.
We admit two exceptions to this general proposition, and
can imagine no others.. One is, if the insurance company bad
fraudulently conveyed any of her property to the defendants,
the fraud would be a good defence against her, but not against
her creditors, in a suit to recover it. The other is, if the defendants had represented, or in any ivay really held out to the
plaintiffs, that their notes and bills were valid, and a fund on
the faith of which the plaintiffs might safely insure, they
would be estopped from making this defence. But the defendants have done nothing of that kind. The mere fact that
the insurance company had these fraudulent notes and bills in
her possession did not authorize the plaintiffs to trust her on
the defendants' credit. As well might it be claimed, that a
note not negotiable, and void, in the hands of the payee, foi
his fraud in obtaining it, still gave him such a credit with ihe

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

887

Ogiz7ie et al. v. Know Insurance Co. et al

world, that his assignee might -e-nforce it as perfectly valid
against the defrauded maker.
However, there is no ground whatever for the pretence that
the plaintifis trusted the insurance company on the credit of
the defendants' names or paper. There is no evidence tending
in any degree to .prove the averment of the complaint, that
the plaintifi insured after the defendants gave their notes
and bills.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainants in this case are judgment creditors of the
Knox Insurance Company. The numerous other defefdants
are stockholders of the company, and arc severally charged as
debtors to it, for the unpaid portion of the stock subscribed
by them.
The company is insolvent, or at least is unable to pay its
creditors, without calling in the capital subscribed and secured, but not actually paid in cash. This it has failed or
refused to do. This bill is filed to compelthese stockholders
or debtors to the corporation to pay the amount of their debts,
in order that the creditors of the company way obtain satisfaction..

The bill was taken pro confesso as against the corporation.
The other defendants, being corporators, are consequently
concluded as to the averments of the bill aftecting them as
such. As stockholders who have not paid in the whole
amount, of the stock subscribed and owned by them, they
stand in the relation of debtors to the corporation for the
several amounts due by each of them. As to them, this bill
is in the nature of an attachment, in which they are called on
to answer as garnishees of the principal debtor.
Where a number of special partners are incorporated to
carry on the business of insurance, the stock subscribed and
owned by the several stockholders or partners constitutes the
capital or fund publicly pledged to all who deal with tliem.
Insurancen companies or corporations, unless they have the:
privilege of using their capital for banking. purposes, seldom
require the actual payment of it all in cash. Contracts of

SUPREME COURT.
Olvie et a&v. Zkoz Inurance Co. d al.

insurance or indemnity, though not literally "gaming contracts," are nevertheless in the nature of wagers against th3e
happening of a certain event. The calculation of chances is
greatly in favor of the insurer. In a large number of policies,
it is but reasonable to expect that the amount of premiums
will exceed that of the losses. The insured are thuu made to
pay one another, and with common good fortune afford an
overplus to make a dividend for the insurers. "Hence the
Knox Insurance Company, like others of the same description,
did not require their stockholders to pay in cash more than
ten per cent. of their several shares. They were allowed to
retain the remaining ninety per cent. in their own possession,
substituting therefor their bonds, or other securities. Thus
every stockholder became a borrower from, and debtor to, the
eapital stock of the company. If in the course of events the
chances were favorable, a dividend of twenty per cent. on
capital, would give a profit. of two hundred on the money
actually paid out by them. On the contrary, if they were
adverse, the capital represented by securities must necessarily
be paid in to satisfy the just debts of the company.
The ninety per cent. retained by the stockholders is as
much a part'of the capital pledged as the cash actually -paid
in. When that portion of the capital represented by these
securities is required to pay the creditors of the company, the
stockholders cannot be allowed to refuse the payment of them,
unless they show such an equity as would entitle them to a
preference over the creditors, if the capital had been paid in
cash.
Let us now examine their defence,. and see if they have
established such an equity.
They do not deny that they paid the ten per cent, gave
their securities for the balance, and have received their certificates for their several shares of stock; but they contend that
they are not bound to pay these securities, because. the agent
of the corporation, who took the subscriptions of stock, made
certain representations concerning the state of the afiirs of
the corporation, which were not true; and, as a consequence
thereof, they are not bound to pay these securities.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

389

Ogilki et al. v. Knox Insurance Co. et al.

The numerous defendants, with some immaterial variations
and qualifications, adopt the answer of their co-defendant,
Collum, which we shall give verbatim from the record, to show
we have not misstated or mistaken the nature of the defence
set up.
"And, by way of defence to said suit, said Collum alleges
that just before he gave said note, accepted said first bill,
Robert N. Carnan, an agent of said insurance company, came.
to Jeffersonville to procure persons'there to give notes and
bills for stock in said insurance company; and in order to
induce said Collum to give his said note,- and accept said first
bill for-such stock, said Carnan, as such agent, then and there
falsely and fraudulently said and represented to said Collum,
and in his hearing, that stock in said insurance company to
the amount of seventy-five dollars had then Ibeen subscribed
for at Vincennes, and on the Wabash river, and all of said
amount had then been paid or secured as the charter of said
insurance company required. Said Collum did not then
know, nor then have the means of knowing, to the contrary
of said representations, and he fully believed them to be true,
-and with that belief he gave his said note, and accepted said
two bills for stock in said insurance company; and if he had
not fuiiy believed said representations, he would not have
given said note nor accepted said bills, or either of them. At
the time said representations were so made, and said given
and said first bill accepted, there had not been more than
twenty-five thousand dollars of stock in said insurance company subscribed for and paid and secured, as said charter required, at Vincennes, on thp Wabash river, which said Carnan then well knew. Sam Carnan also, at and just before
said Collum made his said note and accepted his said first
bill, represented to him that said insurance company then had
$40,000 of funds on hand, mostly in Eastern exchange, which
they could not dispose of at Vincennes, and they wished to
get stockholders at Jeffersonville, so as to have an officer of
said insurance company there, and they would then send those
funds there to be sold and used. Said Collum did not the'
know, and had no means of knowing, to the contrary of said

SUPREME COURT.
Ogilvie et at. v. Knox hIurance Co. et at.

representation, but he believed it, and it was a strong inducement with him to make his said note and accept his said bills;
yet he is ::ow iiiform,,d and believes said representation was
gL'ossly I1-zie, and that said insurance company did not at that
time have anl had not at any time had that suni or anything
like that sum of money on hand, and mostly in Eastern ex-

change, which they could not dispose ofat Vincennes."
Carnan, who was examined as a witness, denies the charges
Made in this answer, and declares that he was not authorized
by the company to make such representations, and did not
iiiake them.
.To establish their defence, several of the defendants themselves were called as witnesses, alleging that, as their responsibility was several, and not joint, each one may be called as a
witness fbr all the rest. Much of the argument of this case.
has been expended on the question of the competency of these
wi.tnesses to testify in their own .case; but we do not think it
necessary to decide it, as there are other facts in the case
which show clearly that the matter pleaded cannot affect the
relative rights of the parties in the case, assuming it to be
true.
Those who seek to set aside their solemn written contracts,
byproving loose conversations, should be held to make out a
very clear case; and when they charge others with fraud,
founded on such evidence, their own conduct and acts (which
speak louder than words) should be consistent with such a
hypothesis. Assuming the flict that Carnan did make the
representations charged, what was the conduct of these Jeffersonville stockholders, who now seek to repudiate their contracts on the allegation of fraud? After having a full opportunity to examine for themselves into the affairs of the company, they alleged no fraud, nor exprebsbd any drsire to withdraw their subscriptibns; on the contrary, when fully informed
that the amount of stock subscribed at Vincennes did not
equal that taken at Jeffersonville, and when an offer was made
to increase the Vincennes subscriptions, so as to equal those at
.Teffersonville, the defendants and those who acted with them
oiWected, and insisted that the .lower the amount of stock the

I)ECEMBER TERM, 1859.

391

Ogilvie el al. v. KEwx limurance Co. et aL

higher would be the dividend, and consequently it had better
not be increased till after the first dividend of twrntg-five per
cent. had been made.
2. After the defendants had a full opportunity to know the
situation of the company, its funds and its property, they organized at Jeffersonville a branch of the corporation, having
resident directors at that place. This board met from time to
time, through the months of April, May, June, July, and up to
18th August, 1850. -While there wa's a prospect of a dividend
of 250 per cent. on the amount of cash paid in, their eyes were
shut to the deceit supposed to have been practiced on them.
In the month of May, a fire at Owensville, Kentucky, was reported, in which the company lost about $50,000. This seemed
to injure the prospect of the large dividend; yet even then it
was not so clearly perceived that the defendants were defrauded.
The directors at Jeffersonville, who represented their interests, continued to meet till the middle of August, and till a
succession of losses made it apparent that the capital of the
company would be nearly all required to pay for the losies
incurred. -When these facts became patent, the directors at
Jeffersonville, at their last meeting in August, "after taking
time to consider what was best to be done," concluded to consider
themselves defrauded, and withdraw their capital from the
company.
We need not cite authorities to show that this discovery
was made too late, and that a court of equity cannot receive
ouch a pretence as a valid defence against the creditors of this
corporation.
1I. The objection made to the bill for want of proper parties
is equally untenable. The creditors of the corporation are
seeking satisfaction out of the assets of the company to which
the defendants are debtors. If the debts attached are sufficient to pay their demands, the creditors need look no further.
They are not bound to settle up all the afthirs of this corporation, and the equities between its various stockholders or partners, corporators or debtors. If A is bound to pay his debt
to the corporation, in order to satisfy its creditors, he cannot

'392

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Teschmaker el al.

defend himself by pleading that these complainants might
have got their satisfaction out of B quite as well. It is true,
if it be necessary to a complete satisfaction to the complainants that the corporation be treated as an insolvent, the court
may appoint a receiver, with authority to collect and receive
all the debts due to the company, and administer all its assets.
In this way, all the other stockholders or debtors may be made
to contribute.
For these reasons, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Circuit-Court should be reversed, with costs, and that the
record be remanded, with instructions to that court to enter a
decree for the complainants against the respondents severally,
for such amount as it shall appear was due and unpaid by
each of them bn their shares of the capital stock of the Knox
Insurance Company, and to have such other and further proceedings as to justice and right may appertain.

Tim UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, v. HENRY F. TESCHMAKER,

JOSEPH P. THompsoN, GEORGE H. HOWARD, AND JULIUS K.
ROSE.
Where none of the preliminary steps required by tle act of 1824 and regulations
of 1828 have been observed or shown, as there required, previous to the grant,
and no record of the title, as also there required, and"but slight evidence of
possession, either as to value or permanency, the proof of the genuineness of
the official signatures to the grant is not sufficient. Evidence, under the cir-

cums.iunces of grants in California, should be given so as to make the antedating of the grant irreconcilable with the weight of the proof; otherwise,
there can be no protection against imposition and fraud.
The record of the title must be shown, or its absence accounted for to the satis
faction of the court.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The state of the title and a brief summary of the, evidence
are'given in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by the Attorney General and Hk~r. Slnzton for
the United States, and by Mr. Gillet for the appellees.

