DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bey ed al. v. Simpson.

be heard, to determine the better right between the contending .parties.
In the cases of Chouteau, v. Eckhart and Le Bois v. Bramell,
it was held that the grant made by the act of 1812, of the village commons of St. Charles and St. Louis, and of village lots,
to possessors, gave a title in fee; and that a claimant, under a
Spanish concession subsequently confirmed, could not go behind the act of Congress, and overthrow the legal title it conferred; and this, for the plain reason that neither Chouteau nor
Le Bois had any title, when the act of 1812 was passed, that
could be asserted in a court of justice; and as the political
power from which alone they could take title had cut them
ofi, to that power they must look for redress of the injury, if
any existed.
To conflicts of title of the foregoing description, the principles asserted in the case of Landes v. Brant (10 How., 370)
apply.
We have no doubt of the correctness of the decision of the
Supreme Court of Missouri in this cause, and order its judgment to be afrmed.

ALEXANDER
MARSHALL

REY, WILLIAM R. MARSHALL, ANt JOSEPH M.
PARTNERS UNDER THE NAME, STYLE, AND FIRM,

OF MARSHALL
SnIPSON.

& CO., PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JMES W

Where an endorsement upon a promissory note was made, not by the payee,
but by persons who did not appear to be otherwise connectea with the note,
and the note thus endorsed was handed to the payee before maturity, a motion
to strike out of the declaration a recital of these facts, and also an allegation
that this endorsement was thus made for the purpose of guarantying the note,

was properly overruled.
In Minnesota, where the transaction took place, suitors are enjoined by law, in

framing their declarations, to give a statement of the facts constituting their
cause of action; which statement is required to be expressed in ordinary and
concise language, without repetition, and in such a manner as to enable a
person of eommon understanding to know what is intended.
The facts above recited were a part of the facts constituting the cause of aetiopl.
and therefore properly inserted in the declaration.

SUPREME COURT.
Beoy el at. v. Simpson.
Parol proof of the circumstances under which the endorsement was made was
admissible, and the weight of authority is in harmony with. this principle.
The judgment against these endorsers was properly given, upon the ground that
they were original partiesto the note.
The declaration was sufficient, under the system of pleaing which prevails in
Minnesota.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
It was an action brought by Simpson in the District Court
of the second judicial district, Ramsey county, in the Territory
-of Minnesota, upon a promissory note given under the following circumstances:
$3,517.07j.
ST. PAUL, Qune 14, 1855.
Six months after date, I promise to pay to the order of
-James W. Simpson, three thousand five hundred and seventeen dollars and 07-100, value received.
(Signed)
ALEx. REY.
Simpson was the creditor, and it was intended to give hint
the security of Marshall & Co.; but instead of drawing tha
note in.favor of Marshall & Co., and .obtaining their endorsement before handing it to Simpson, the note was drawn as
above, and given to Simpson with the endorsement of Marshall & Co. upon it. The whole case turned upon the nature
of this note. Under the usual form of proceeding, Simpson
would have :ad to write his name over that of Marshall & Co.,
and thus present the spectacle of the first endorser suing the
.second endorser. According to the old system of pleading,
there might have been a difficulty; but the system of pleading
in Minnesota obviated all difficulty, by enjoining upon suitors,
in framing their declarations, to give a statement of the facts
constituting their cause of action. Simpson's counsel therefore filed a complaint against the maker and endorsers of the
note,.joining them in one action, and complaining that they
would not pay the note. In this complaint, Marshall & Co.
were called endorsers, and the question immediately arose,
whether they Were endorsers or guarantors. Accordingly, the
counsel for the defendants moved

to

strike out of'the com-

")Iaint all th-Re parts which spoke of Marshall & Co. as ea-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

343

ftdaL. v. Simpom

dorsers, for the purpose of guarantying the note, and of becoming sureties and security to the plaintiff. But the court
overruled the motion. The counsel for the defendants then
demurred to the complaint, upon the following grounds, which
are inserted because the reporter does not intend to report the
arguments of counsel in this court upon this mode of making
a promissory note, and this mode of declaring upon it.
The grounds of demurrer were the following, viz:
First. The said complaint does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action against the said defendants,
William R. Marshall and Joseph M. Marshall, or either of
them, in that1. The facts stated in the said complaint show* that the
contract of the defendants, Marshall, upon the promissory note
in said complaint mentioned, was that only of endorsement;
and the allegations in the said complaint of the purpose for
which the said defendants endorsed the said note, and of the
reliance- of the plaintiff upon such endorsement as security to
him, are incompetent either to vary the said contract, or to
change in any respect the legal obligations of the defendants,
Marshall.
2. It appears, upon the face of the said complaint, that the
plaintiff is the payee of the said note, that the same is payable
to the order of the plaintiff, and that the plaintiff has never
endorsed nor negotiated the said note.
3. The facts stated in the said complaint show, that the
defendants, Marshall, could only have been made liable upon
the said promissory note in the character of second endorsers,
and in that character only upon the endorsement and the
transfer of the note by the plaintif] The note having matured
without endorsement or transfer by the plaintiff, no liability
can in any event attach to the defendants, Marshall, upon the
Oarne.

.8Second. There is a defect of parties defendant in said action,
in that1. The defendants,- Marshall, are not proper parties to an
action by the plaintiff upon tht said note, because, as appears
upon the face of the complaint, they are but the endorsers of

SUPREME COURT.
Bey d ? v. Simpos.

a promissory note payable to the order of the plaintif, and as
such endorsers cannot be held by the payee.
2. The facts stated in the said complaint show that the
maker of the said promissory note alone is liable to the plaintiff for the payment thereof.
This demurrer was overruled, and, after some other pro
ceedings, the court gave judgment for the plaintiff, when the
defendants carried the case to the Supreme Court of the Territory. The points made in that court upon both sides are
inserted, because they are substantially those which were,
made in this court.
Points of plaintiff in error, with authorities relied on:
I. The contract of the defendants (plaintiffi in error) was
that of endorsers, and a contract of a different character cannot
arise and will not be implied in conflict with the written
agreement. The defendants being endorsers, they are endorsers of the plaintiff, and not liable to him.
17 Johns., 326; 17 Wen., 214.
2 Hill, 80; 3 Ibid, 233; 7 Ibid, 416.
19 Wen., 202; 6 Barber, 282.
1 Comstock, 321; 1 Spence N .Y., 256.
1 Green Ia., 331; 13 Lin. and Man., 617.
1 Jones's Pen., 46; Story on Promissory Notez, es. 184,
note.
Story on Bills, 215; 11 Johns., 201.
1 Phillips's Ev., 547; 6 'Hill, 219.
1 Johns. Ch. B., 429; 4 Selden, 207.
2 Comstock, 553; 5 Denio, 484.
Rev. Stat. p. 268, sees. 281, 282.
II. The complaint charges the defendants as guarantora,
and shows that the contract was cotemporaneous with the
inception of the note, and no construction of the authorities will
charge them upon-such fact otherwise than as original maker.
I[I. In no view can the defendants upon this complaint be
-regarded, except as endorsers, because, conceding that the
written qrontract of the parties may be varied by a cotempo•raneous parol agreement, facts are not stated in the pleadings
from which the court can infer the nature of the contract.

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

345

Rey et al v. Simpmc~

IV. The complaint is double. If a y contract besides that
of endorsers is stated, it contains in th- same count a contract
of endorsement and of guaranty. There are distinct causes
of action, and should be separately stated.
Vide Rev. Stat., p. 840, see. 7.
2 Code R., p. 145; 4 H. and R., 226.
5 Ibid, 172; 7 Barbour, 80.
The following points and authorities were relied upon for
the defendant in error:
Frst. The plaintiffs in error, William R. Marshall and Joseph
M. Marshall, as parties to the promissory note described in
the complaint, became and assumed the legal liability of
guarantors and sureties for the payment of the same.
See 14 Johns. Rep., p. 349, Campbell v. Butler.
.1 Hill's Rep., p. 91, TLabran & Ives v. Worane.
18 Johns. Rep., p. 175, Nelson v. Duboiss.
9 Mass. Rep., p. 313, White v. Howland.
11 Mass. Rep., p. 436, Mories v..Bird.
2 Comstock Rep., p. 225, Brown v. Curtis.
7 Mass. Rep., p. 232, Ulen v. Kitridge.
.Story on Promissory NVotes, sees. 479 and 480, and notes
on page 641, 3d ed.
Same, p. 630, secs. 475 and 476,.and notes.
Same, sees. 477 and 479, p. 638.
Second. The endorsement of the- promissory note by Marshall & Co., at the time of the making and before delivery
thereof, was an original undertaking on their part to pay the
same, or at least to guaranty the payment thereof.
In support of this point, see the authorities above cited.
Third. Th- endorsement by Marshall & Co. having been
made at the date of the note, and before delivery, for the
express purpose of giving credit to the maker, and enabling
him to negotiate the same to the payee thereof, renders them
primarily liable as original parties to the note.
6 Conn. Rep., p. "315; 7 Conn. Rep., p. 310.
11 Conn. Rep., p. 440; 9 Vermont Rep., p. 845.
12 Vermont Rep., p. 219; 16 Vermont Rep., p. 554.
17 Vermont Rep., 'p. 285s 1 New Iiamp. Rep., p. 385.

SUPREME COURT.
Bey et al v. Simpson.
2 McCbrd's Rep., p. 888; 9 Ohio Rep. p. 39.
18 Ohio Rep., p. 828.
Fourth. The time and circumstances wlen and under which
the note was made, endorsed, and delivered, may be pioperly
alleged and proved, to enable the court to apply the law
governing the same.
. See the authorities before cited, and 4 Watt's Rep., p. 448;
9 Ohio Rep., p. 89; 2 McLean Rep., p. 558.
Fiflh. The decision and judgment below is well sustined
by the law of the case.
See authorities before cited.
The Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the judgment
of the court below, and the defendants brought the case to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Stevens, upon a brief submitted by
himself and Mr. Brisbin, for the plaintiffs in error, and by dr.
Bradky for the defendant.
The arguments turned upon the questions, whether Marshall
& Co. were endorsers. or guarantors or original parties to the
note, and also whether the mode of pleading had been correct.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
According to the transcript, the suit was commenced by
James W. Simpson, the present defendant, on the twenty-first
day of December, 1855, in the District Cotart of the Territory,
for the second judicial district, against the plaintiffs in error,
who were the original defendants. It was an action of assumpsit, and was brought upon a certain promissory note for the
sum of three thousand five hundred and seventeen dollars
and seven and a half cents, bearing date at St. Paul, in that
Territory, on the fourteenth day of Jun6, 1855, and was made
payable to the order of the plaintiff six months after date, foz
value received. At the period of the date of the note, as well
as at the time the suit was instituted, two of the defendants,

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Bey d al. v. Simp"on.
William R. Marshall and Joseph M. Marshall, were partners,
doia business under the style and firm of Marshall & Compary.
As appears by the declaration, the note was made and
:igned by the defendant first named in the original suit, at
the time and place it bears date.
And the plaintiff further alleges in the declaration, that,
after making and signing the note, the same defendant then
and there delivered the note to the other two defendants; and
that they then and there, by their partnership name, endorsed
the same, by writing the name of their firm on the back of
the note, and then and there redelivered the same to the firstnamed defendant, who afterwards, and before the maturity of
the note, delivered it so endorsed to the plaintiff. He also
alleges that the defendants, William R. Marshall and Joseph
M. Marshall, so endorsed the note for the purpose of guarantying the payment of the same, and of becoming sureties and
security to him, as the payee thereof, for the amount therein
specified; and that he, relying upon their endorsement, took
the note, and paid the full consideration thereof to the firstnaned defendant.
Other matters, such as due presentment, non-payment, and
protest, are also alleged in the declaration, which it is unnecessary to notice at the present time, as the questions to be
determined arise out of the allegations previously mentioned
and described.
Personal service was made on each of the defendants, but
the one first named did not appear; and after certain interlocutory proceedings, conforming to the laws of the Territory
and the practice of the court, he was defaulted.
On the thirty-first day of December, 4855, the counsel of
the other two defendants served notice of a motion to strike
out all that part of 'the declaration which sets forth the purpose for which it is alleged they endorsed the note, and so
much of the declaration, also, as alleges that the 'plaintiff took
the note as payee, relying upon the endorsement, and paid to
the first-named defendant the full consideration thereof, as
oeforu stated. That motion was subsequently heard before

SUPREME COURT.
Rey et A~v. Simm

the court; and on the ninth day of February, 1866, was denied and wholly overruled. After the motion was overruled,
the defendants, whose firm name is on the back of the note,
demurred specially to the declaration.
None of the causes of demurrer -needbe stated, as they will
be sufficiently brought to view in considering the several
propositions assumed by the counsel on the one side and the
other, in the argument at the bar. .Suffice it to say, that the
deiiiurrer was overruled; and on the tenth day of July, 1856,
judgment was entered for the plaintiff against all of the
defendants for the amount of the note, with interest and costs.
On the eighteenth day of September, 1856, the defendants
sued out a writ of error, and removed the cause into the
Supreme Court. of the Territory, where the judgment of the
District Court was in all things affirmed; and on the fourth
day of February, 1857, a final judgment was entered for the
plaintif, that he recover the amount of the.judgment rendered
in the District Court, with interest, costs, and ten per cerit.
damages, amounting in the whole to the sum of four thousand
three hundred seventy-one dollars and ninety-seven cents.
Whereupon the defendants sued out, a writ of error to this
court, which was properly docketed at the December term,
1857.
All civil suits in the courts of Minnesota are commenced by
complaint; and suitors are enjoined by law, in framing their
declarations, to give a statement of the facts constituting the
cause of action; which statement is required to be expressed
in -ordinary and concise language, without repetition, and in
such a manner as to enable a person of common understanding to know what is inended.
Pursuant to that requirement, and thf practice of the courts
cf the Territory at the time the suit was commeiicedi the
plaintiff in this case set forth the f-acts already recited as contained in the complaint or declaration.
I-acts thus stated in the declaration, pursuant to the directions of the law of the Territory, and which were material tQ
the understanding of the rights of the parties to the controo
versy, could not properly be suppressed by the court. Irre-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859

849)

Rey d al. v. Simpn.

spective, therefore, of the question whether or not the motion
of the defendants to strike out that part of the declaration was
waived, because not pressed in the Supreme Court of the Terr~tory, no aoubtTs entertained by this court that the motion
was properly ov6rruled by the District Court upon the merits.
Proof of the attending circumstances under which the. defendants, William R. Marshall and Joseph M. Marshall, had
placed their firm name upon the -back of the note, would
clearly have been admissible in a trial upon the general issue;
and if so, no reason is perceived why it was not proper for the
plaintiff under the.peculiar system of pleading which prevailed
in the courts of the Territory at the time the suit was commenced, to state those circumstances in the declaration. Beyond
question, they were a part of the facts constituting the cause of
action; and if so, they were expressly required to be stated by
the law of the Territory prescribing the rules of pleading in
civil cases. And having been alleged in pursuance to such a
requirement, and being material to a proper understanding of
the rights of the parties to the suit, it must be considered, by
analogy to the rules of pleading at common law, that they are
admitted by the demurrer.
By the admitted facts, then, it appears the defendants, William R. Marshall and Joseph M. Marshall, placed their firm
name on the back of the note at its inception, and before it
had been passed or offered to the plaintiff. They placed their
firm name there at the request of the other defendant, knowing that the note had not been endorsed by the payee, and
with a view to give credit to the note, for the benefit of the
immediate maker, at whose request -they became a party to
the same.
Whatever diversities of interpretation may be found in the
authorities, where either a blank endorsement or a full endorsement is made by a third party on the back of a note,
payable to the payee or order,, or to the payee or bearer, as to
whether he is to be deemed an absolute promissor or maker,
or guarantor or endorser, there is one principle upon the subject almost universally admitted by them all, and that is, that
the interpretation of the contract ought in every case to be

SUPREME COURT.
Rey d aZ. v. Simp.os.

such as will carry into effect the intention of the parties; and
in most instances it is conceded that the intention of the par-'
ties may be made out by parol proof of the facts and circumstances which took place at the time of the transaction. Story
on Prom. Notes, secs. 58, 59, and 479.
When a promissory note, made payable to a particular person or order, as in this. case, is first endorsed by a third person, such third person is held to be an original promissor,
guarantor, or endorser, according to the nature of the transaction and the understanding of the parties at the time the
transaction took place. If lie put his name on the back.of the
note it the time it was made, as surety for the maker, and for
his-accommodation, to give him credit with the payee, or if
he participated in the consideration for which the note was
given, he must be considered .as .a joint maker of the note.
On the other hand, if his endorsement was subsequent to the
making of the note, and he put his name there at the request of
the maker, pursuant to a contract with the payee for further
indulgence or forbearance, he cn only be held as a guarantor.
But if the note was intended for discount, and he put his
name on the back of it with the understanding of all the parties that his endorsement would be inoperative until it was
endorsed by the payee, he would then be liable only as a second endorser in the commercial sense, and as such *would
clearly be entitled to the privileges Which belong to such endorsers.
Decided cases are referred to by the counsel of the defendants, which seemingly deny that such parol proof of the attending circumstances of the transaction is admissible in evidence;
but the weight of authority is greatly the other way, as is
abundantly shown by the cases- cited on the other side.
Whenever a written contract is presented for construction,
and its terms are ambiguous or indefinite, it is always allowable to weigh its language in connection with the surrounding circumstances and the subject, matter, and we see no reason, as question of principle, why any different rule should be
adopted in a case like the present. Such evidence has always
been received in the courts of Massachusetts, as appears from

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

851

Rey et al. v. Smpson.

numerous decisions, and the same rule prevails in most of the
other States at the present time. 1 Am. Lea. Cas., (4th ed.,)
322. Repeated decisions to the same effect have been made
in the courts of New York, and until within a recent period
it appears to have been the settled doctrine in the courts of
that State.
Recent decisions, it must be admitted, wear a different aspect; but they have not had the effect to produce a corresponding change in other States, and, in our view, deny the
admissibility of parol evidence in cases where it clearly ought
to be received. Hawkes v. Phillips et al., 7 Grey, 284.
Applying these principles to the present case, it is obvious
that the contract of the two defendants whose firm name is
upon the back of the note was an original undertaking, running clear of all questions arising out of the statute of frauds.
They placed their names there at the inception of the note,
not as a collateral undertaking, but as joint promissors with
the maker, and are as much afected by the consideration paid
by the plaintiff, and as clearly liable in the character of original
promissors, as they would have been if they had signed their
names under the name of the other defendant upon the inside
of the instrument. Numerous decisions in the State courts
might be cited in support of the proposition as stated, but we
think it unnecessary, as they will be found collated in the elementary works to which reference has already been made,
and in many others which treat of this subject.
Another objection to the right of recovery in this case deserves a brief notice. It is insisted by the counsel of the defendants that the complaint or declaration is not sufficient to
maintain this suit against these defendants as original promissors. That objection must be considered in connection with
the system of pleading which prevailed in the courts of the
Territory at the time the suit was commenced. By that system, suitors were only required to state the facts which constituted the cause of action. In this case the plaintiff followed
that mode of pleading, and we think he has set forth enough
to constitute a substantial compliance with the law of the
Territory and the practice of the court where the suit was ill-

SUPREME COURT.
Je~r v. Hewilt et al.

stituted. He alleges, among other things, that th6-defendants
whose firm name is on. the back of the note placed it there for
the purpose of becoming sureties and security to him as payee
for the amount therein- specified. That allegation, to use the
language of the statute of Minnesota, is expressed in ordinary
and concise language, and in such a manner as to be easily
understood,, and that is all which is required by the law of the
Territory prescribing the rules of pleading in civil cases. Under the system of pleading which prevailed in the courts of
the Territory, the objection 'cannot be sustained.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
therefore affirmed with costs

JOHN P. JETER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JA.iEs EDWMT,
VILLE HERON, AND MARY CONRAD.

n,'

Where a mortgage of land and slaves, in Louisiana, was made to the Bank of Louis.
iana, the property sold in the manner pointed out by the charter of the bank, the
purchasers applied to the District Court, (State court,) under a statute of Louisiana, for a monition, citing all persons who objected to the sale to make their
objection known , that court decided that the sale was null and void, but the
Supreme Court reversed the judgment as to the widow, and those claiming
under her ; this judgment cuts off all the objections that apply to the manner
of conducting the sale, and to the form of the judgment in'the court below.
The Supreme Court of the State decided that the courts below had jurisdiction
of the case, and that decision is binding upon this court. The whole matter
now in controversy has therefore been legally adjudicated by the courb of the
State.

Tmis case was brought up.by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
It was an action brought by John P. Jeter, a citizen of
Louisiana, resident -in New Orleans, against James Hewitt
and David Heron, citizens of the State of Kentucky, temporarily within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court for the district
of Louisiana.
The nature and history of the case are stated in the opinion
,)f the court. It was submitted to the Circuit Court upon the
pleadings, depositions, oral testimony, and arguments of coun-

