SIUPREME COURT.
Brewster v. WakeZVW

in the bill of exceptions, is, whether the voyage insured io
one entire voyage from Charleston to Rio Janeiro, and back
to the port of discharge in the United States, and consequently
the underwriters entitled to a deduction of the freight earned
on the outward voyage?
The court is of opinion, upon the true construction of the
policy, the insurance was upon the freight of each successive
voyage, and is to be applied to the freight at risk at any time,
whether on the outward or homeward voyage, to the amount
of the valuation.
The case, in this respect, is not distinguishable from Hugg
v. the Augusta Insurance and Banking Company, (7 How.,
595.) See, also, 3 Caines, 16; 7 Gill. and John., 293; 2
Phillips on Insurance, 31, 34.

Judgment of the court below affirmed.

Wnizm

B~EwsTimi, APPELLANT,

v. WmhwmI WAm=ILD.

Whilst Minnesota was a Territory, tie following statute was passed:
See. 1. Any rate of interest agreed upon by the parties in contract, specifyinj
the same in writing, shall be legal and valid.
See. 2. When no rate of interest is agreed upon or specified in a note or othei
contract, seven per cent. per annum: shall be the lejal rate.
Where a party gave two promissory notes, in one of which he promised to pay.
twelve months after the date thereof, a sum of money, with interest thereon at
the rate of twenty per cent. per annum from the date thereof, and in another
promised to pay another sum, six months after date, with interest at the rate
of two per cent. per month, the mode of computing interest under the statute
was to calculate the interest stipulated for up to the time when the iotes became
due, and after that time at the rate of seven per cent. per annum.
Although the laws of the Territory abolished the distinction between cases at law
and cases in equity, and required all cases to be removed from an inferior to
a higher court by writ of error, and not by appeal, yetsuch laws cannot.regulate the process of this court; and the piesent case, b.eiug in the nature of a
bill in equity, is properly brought up by appeal.
The parties who acquired liens on the mortgaged property subsequent' to the
mortgage in question were not necessarily parties to this appeal; and if they
iad appeared to the suit in the court below, one defendant, whose interest is
ieparate from that of the other defendants, may appeal without them

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

119

Brewster v.WakoUed.

T-ns was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota.
The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
It. was argued for the appellant by Mr. Stevens, upon a brief
filed by Mr..Brisbinand himself, and for the appellee by Hfr.

.Bradks,.
Mr. Stevens made the following points:
i.It is submitted that the court below erred in allowing to
the plaintiff interest at the rate specified in the notes, after
their maturity. That the legal and correct mode of estimating
the amount due the plaintiff was to estimate the interest at the
rates specified in the notes, respectively, up to the time of their
maturity, (July 14th, 1855,) and from that time to the date of
the decree at the rate of seven per cent. per annum.
Our statutes (vide Rev. Stat. of Minnesota, p. 155, chap.
35) fix the legal rate of interest at seven per cent. per annum,
in all cases where no other rate isagreed upon by the parties,
in writing.
The appellant agreed in writing to pay a certain sum, at a
certain time, with interest thereon at a certain rate (or a certain other sum at interest) at the same time. His contract to
pay interest did not extend beyond the time at which he
agreed to pay it; the plaintiff, therefore, although entitled to
interest upon his demand until the same is satisfied, is not so
entitled by virtue of the defendant's contract to pay it, but by
virtue of the law which allows interest upon all liquidated
demands from the time they become due until they are paid.
Suppose the defendant, Brewster, had, at the maturity of
the notes, paid the amount of interest then due, and taken the
receipt of the plaintiff in fall of such interest, would not his
contract to pay interest have been thereby fully performed and
discharged, and could the plaintiff have recovered interest
thereafter upon the principal remaining unpaid at any greater
rate than that fixed by law, upon all liquidated demands where
the rate is not agreed upon by the parties?

SUPREME COURT.
Brewster v. WakOUW.

The rate of interest specified in the notes, it is submitted, is
qualified and limited by the time therein specified for its paymeni, and there being no express agreement to pay interest
after the maturiti of the notes, it can be recovered from that
time only as damages for the non-payment of principal when
due. This is the true and only construction of the notes in
this case; they contain upon their face no agreement except
to pay a certain sum with certain interest at a certain time.
If the parties intended, that in default of payment of the notes
at maturity, the same rate of interest should continue until
paid, they should have expressed that intention by the use of
appropriate words, such as "and at that rate till paid;" or if
the notes as drawn do not express the actual agreement which
was made between the parties at the time the notes were given,
the plaintiff should apply to a court of equity to reform them,
and make them correspond with such agreement.
Bander v. Bander, 7 Barb. S. C. Rep., 560, and cases
there cited.
2. Authorities directly in point upon the question raised in
this case are not numerous.
In Macomber v. Dunham, (8 Wend., 650,) it was held that
a loan company, which was authorized by its charter to charge
interest for a full month where the loan was for a period over
fifteeu days and less than one month, was not entitled, where
a loafi made fbr twenty days remained unpaid, to demand interest at the same rate for any subsequent time. The- loan
had remained unpaid for several months after it was due, and
it was contended, on the part of the company, that an implied
agreement was to be presumed that the interest was to be
charged according to the terms upon which the loan was originally made, but the court say (page 553:) "The true and only
rational interpretation of this transaction is,- that the loan
which was made in December, in pursuance of the charter, not
being renewed when it became due, the interest upon the debt
then due, like the interest upon every other debt which has
fallen due, is to be regulated by the general law of the State
on that subject," that is, seven per cent. per annum. This case
establishes the principle, that where the rate of interest re-

DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

121

Brewster v. Wakceflel

served by the contract is higher than the rate fib.ed by the
statute, such higher rate continues only until the debt becomes
due by the terms of the contract, and that after that the interest is recoverable only at the statute rate. This is precisely the
principle contended for by the appellant.
In U. S. Bank v. Chapin, (9 Wend., 471,) it is held that a
bank, which by law is limited to six per cent. interest upon all
discounts, is entitled to recover at the rate of seven per cent.
from the time the debt becomes due; that the clause in the
charter limiting the rate of intetest to six per cent. referred
only to discounts in the ordinary course of business, and that
the contract with thd bank having been broken, the defendant
was liable to pay the rate of interest fixed by the tez loci
from the time the debt became due. In this case, the same
principle was applied. By it, the lower rate (six per cent.) fixed
by the law of the contract was increased to the statute rate,
(seven per cent.,) after the debt became due. It operates both
ways, simply because it is a principle.
The case of Ludwick v. Huntsiuger, (6 Watts and Serg., 51,
60,) it seem3 to us, is directly in point. In that case it was
held that "a note payable at a future day with three per cent.
interest from the date, carries that interest till the day of payment, and after that, carries lawful interest."
This case is citdd in a note to Chitty on Bills, (11 Am., from
9th Loud. ed.,) 682, marginalpaging.
There are several cases in the Reports of the State of Alabama.
The first is the case of Clay v. Drake, (Minor, 164,) in which
it is held, that where the rate of interest is not expressed in a
contract, only the statute rate can be recovered in an action
on such contract.
'Another is the case of Henry v. Thompson, (Minor, 209,)
and is as follows: "In Alabama, a contract to pay interest at
a rate exceeding eight per cent. per annum (the statute rate)
must be in writing, signed by the party to be charged, and
express that it is for the loan of money, &c.; and such inteirest
is recoverable only for the stipulated time of forbearance."
See, also, Kitchen v. Branch Bank of Mobile, 14 Alabama
Rep., 2383.

SUPREME COURT.
Brewster v.Wakefied.

It is submitted that, upon principles of justice and of public
policy, such extravagant and ruinous rates of interest as those
specified in the notes in question should not be encouraged,
but that on the contrary they should be discountenanced by
the courts. Such contracts ought to receive a strict, rigid,
and literal construction. If "so nominated in the bond," give
"the pound of flesh," but "no jot of blood."
""Thepolicy of all usury laws in modern times is to protect
necessity against avarice, and to fix such a rate of interest as
will enable industry to employ with advantage a borrowed capital, and thereby to promote labor and national wealth." Per
Ch. J. Best, in the House of Lords, (8 Bing., 193;) and his
Lordship might have added, with equal truth, that the policy
of these laws is to check the spirit of wild and extravagant
speculations.
Mr. Bradf. Two preliminary questions arise on the face of
this record:
1. Caui the case be brought to this court by appeal ?
2. Can Brewster alone take the appeal, and without. making
the other defendants parties?
As to the first: The case is somewhat anomalous. The proceeding certainly is not in a court of equity, or of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, hut a court of law created by statute
which has abolished the distinction of law and equity. It is a
final judgment in a civil action other than in a case of equity,
or of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and as such is by
statute the subject of a writ of error.
Act 24 Sept., 1789, sec..22, 1 Stat., 88.
8 March, 1803, sec. 2, 2 Stat., 244.
Courts of equity are distinct in their forms and modes of
proceeding, as well as their jbrisdiction, from eourts of common law, and they are peculiarly placed under the direc control of thi' court; with this limitation, they are understood to
be governed by the principal usages and rules of, the English
courts of chancery at the time of the Revolution.
See 1 Stat., 276.
4 Stat., 278.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

123

Erewa v. Wkefie"d

5 Stat., 499.
Vattier r. Hinde, 7 Pet., 274.
Their jurisdiction, rules of decision, and remedies, are the same
in all the States.
Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 Pet., 658.
Neves v. Scott, 13 How., 268.
From any other court except a court of equity or admiralty
jurisdiction, a case can be brought to this court -by writ of
error only.
The San Pedro, 2 Wheai., 132.
McCollum v. Eager, 2 How., 61.
Parish v. Ellis, 16 Pet., 451.
As to the second question: It is a case in which there are
several defendants claiming in the same right immediately or
derivatively, against whom the same joint decree has passed,
finally settling their rights, and the appeal is prayed by one
only.
An appeal will not lie in such a-case by one only.
Owings and others v. Kincannon, r Peters, 399.
Todd and others v. Daniel, 16 Peters, 521.
It is submitted the case ought to be dismissed.
If the case is properly before this court, the points-following will be relied on by the defendant in error upon its merits:
L The rate of interest having been agreed on by the .parties, and'reduced to -writing, the contract is authorized by the
statute.
Rev. Stat. Min., p. 155, ch. 85.
I. -The,contract being in writing, it is the provifnce of the
court to interpret and carry it .into effect according to the intention of the parties.
Story on Con., -p.556, see. 683,. 684.
7 Barb. S. C., 560.
Chitty on Con., 74, (7 Am. ed.)
I. If the terms are ambiguous, or the intention is doubtful,
they are to be taken most strongly against the promissor.
The maxim, "verba chartarunt forlius aecijiiuntur contra pro.
ferentern," (Co. Litt., 36 a,) is as aplicable to contracts not
under seal as to those of greater solemnity.

SUPREME COURT.
Brewstr v. WaloeWd.

Mayer v. Isaacs, 6 Mees. and Wels., 612.
Hargrave v. Smee, 6 Bing., 248.
Stephens v. Pell, 2 Cr. and M., 710.
Edis v. Bury, 6 B. and C., 438.
IV. Interest is a compensation for the use or detention of
money, and is regulated by contract, express or implied, or
given by law. The latter should more fitly be called damages.
They rest on different principles, the one arising from the assent of the parties, the other from a duty created by law.
This is an express contract for the use of the money. The
terms import a continuance of the same rate for its detention.
1. It uses the words "interest;" "interest from date."
These words have a definite signification. They show that
it was made with reference to an understood compensation,
the right to which would continue until the payment of the
principal sum, with all the accumulated interest, or until judgment recovered, when the statutory interest would begin and
run on the gross sum of principal and interest to that date; for
if an amount equal to the principal debt should be paid, that
would be applied first to the payment of the interest, and the
residue would still bear interest. Nor could the promissor
have paid the debts, or either of them, before the appointed
time, so as to stop the inteiest; for the time is a part of the
contract, and of the7 copsideration on which the money was
lent, and was made so for the benefit of the creditor
Ellis v. Craig, 7 Johns, Ch., 7.
2. The interest is to run from the date of the notes in the one
.case at the rate of. twenty per cent. per annum; in the other,
at the rate of.tio per cent. per month. Languagecould with
difliculty be found more clearly to import that the parties contemplated the possibility. of the non-payment of the debts at
their maturity, and intended in that event to fix the rate of
interest to be allowed and paid for its determtion. They, do
not say the dpbt is to be paid at the expiration of twelve
months, with twenty per cent. in the one case, and twenty-four
in the other, added. But the, notes are to bear interest from
their date, at e ertain fixed rates. Without such agreement,
the rato of interest would, have been seven per cent. That

DECE
iMBER TERM, 1859.

125

Brewdter v. WakVW&~d

would have run either from the time the debt became due, or
such other time as the parties specified in writing. When,
then, they in terms say the interest shall be at certain rates
agreed upon by them in writing, they can intend neither more
-nor less than that rate shall take the place of the statutory rate,.
witH all its incidents. It is but substituting, in the terms allowed by the statute, the conventional interest agreed upon by
themselves.
V. It is to be construed as every other contract, to make
compensation for the use of another man's property. The
hire of labor, the rent of a house or machinery, stand on the
same principle. If there is no contract, the owner is entitled
to recover whatever the jury may find he should reasonably
receive. But if there is. a contract for a definite period, at a
certain rate, and the relation of the parties continues unchanged, the rate of compensation likewise continues. S6
here the hire of this money and the rate of compensation being fixed by agreement, the rat6 must continue so long as the
money is detained in the use or employment of the borrower.
The statute does not come to the relief of the party who has
made his own law.
It is therefore submitted that there is no error in the decree
of the court below.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon appeal from the
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Minnesota, before its admission into the Union as a State.
It appears that a suit was instituted in the District Court,
in the county of Ramsey, by Wakefield, the appellee, against
the appellant and others, in order to foreclose a mortgage
made by the said Brewster and his wife, of certain lands, to
secure the payment of three promissory notes mentioned ii,
the proceedings. The notes are not set out in full in the
transcript, but are stated by the complainant in his petition,
or bill of complaint, to have been all given by Brewster on
the 11th of July, 1854, whereby, in one of them, he promised
to pay, twelve months after the date thercol; to the order of

SUPREME COURT
Brwster v. WakqWdeL

Wakefield, the appellee, the sum of five thousand five hundred
and eighty-three dollars and twenty-five cents, with interest
thereon at the rate of twenty per cent. per annum from the
date thereof, for value received; and in another, promised to
pay to the order of the said Wakefield the further sum of two
thousand dollars, twelve months after the date thereof, with
interest thereon at the iate of two per cent. per month from
the date; and by a third one, promised to pay to the order of
the said Wakefield, six months after date, the further sum of
one thousand dollars, with interest at the rate of two per cent.
per month.' This last-mentioned note is admitted to have
been paid, and these proceedings were instituted to recover
the principal and interest due on the two first.
No defence appears to have been made by the appellant,
and the notes were admitted to be due. But when the court
was about to pass its decree for the sale of the mortgaged
premises, and ascertain and determine the sum due, the appellant, by his counsel, appeared and objected to the allowance of more than the legal rate of interest (seven per cent.)
after the notes became due and payable. Wakefield, on the
contrary, claimed that interest should be allowed at the rate
mentioned in the notes, up to the time of the judgment or
decree for the sale. And of this opinion was the court, and
by its decree, dated June 20th, 1855, adjudged that the sum
of $10,670.77 was then due and owing for principal and interest on the said two notes, and ordered the mortgaged
premises, or so much thereof as might be necessary, to be
sold to raise that sum.
This decree or judgment was carried by writ of error, according to the practice in the Territory, before the Supreme
Territorial Court; and was there, on the 29tb of January,
1857, affirmed, with ten per cent. damages, and also legal'interest on the sum awarded by the District Court, amounting
altogether to the sum of twelve thousand live hundred and thirty-eight dollars and nine cents. For the payment of that amount,
with costs, the mortgaged premises were ordered to be sold.
F-om this last-mentioned decision an appeal was taken to
this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

127

Brewster v. MakefleU

There is no question as to the validity of the notes or mort.
gage; and it is admitted that no part of the debt has been
paid. The question in controversy between the parties is,
whether, after the day specified for the payment of the notes,
the interest is to be calculated at the rates therein mentioned,
or according to the rate established by law, when there is no'
written contract on the subject between the parties. The
question depends upon the construction of a statute of the
Territory, which is in the following words:
"See. 1. Anyrate of interest agreed upon by the parties in
contract, specifying the same in writing, shall be legal and
valid.
"See. 2. When no rate of interest is agreed-upon or specified in a note or other contract, seven per cent. per annum
shall be he legal rate."
Now, the notes which formed the written contracts between
the parties, as we have already said, are not set out in full in
the record. We must take them, therefofe, as they are described by the complainant, as his description is not disputed
by the appellant; and, according to that statement, the written stipulation as to interest, is interest from the date to the
day specified for the payment. There is no stipulation- in
relation to interest, after the notes become due, in case the
debtor should fail to pay theii; and if the right to interest
depended altogether on contract, and was -not given by law
in a,case of this kind, the appellee would be entitled to no
interest whatever after the day of payment.
The contract being entirely silent as to interest, if the notes
s'hould not be punctually paid, the creditor is entitled to interest after that time by operation of law, and not by any
provision in the contract. And, in.this view of the subject,
we think the Territorial courts committed an error in allowing, after the notes fell due, a higher rate of interest than that
established by law, where there was no contract to regulate it.
The cases of Macomber v. Dunham, 8 Wend., 550; United
States Bank v. Chapin, 9 Wend., 471; and Ludwick v. Huntsinger,..5 Watts and Serg., 51, 60, were decided upon this
principle, and, in the opinion of this court, carrectly decided.

SUPREME COURT.
Brewster v. Wakied,.

Nor is there anything in th.e character of this contract that
should induce the court, by supposed intendment of the parties or doubtil inferences, to extend the stipulation for interest beyond the time specified in the written contract. The
law of Minnesota has fixed seven per cent. per annum as
a reasonable and fiir compensation for the use of money;
and where a party desires to exact, from the necessities of a
borrower, more than three times as much as the Legislature
deems reasonable and just, he must take care that the contract
is so written, in plain and unambiguous terms; for, with such
a claim, he must stand upon his bond.
A question has been raised by the appellee, as to the jurisdiction of this court. The laws of the Territory have abolished the distinction between cases at law and cases in equity;
and both are blended in the same proceeding, without any
regard to the forms and rules of proceeding, either at law or
in equity, and a case cannot be removed from an inferior to
an appellate Territorial court, except by writ of error. And
it is urged that this case, under the laws of Minnesota, ought
to be regarded as a case at law, and removable to this court
by writ of error only, and not by appeal.
But the case presented by the record is not a case at law,
according to the meaning of those words, in courts which
recognise the distinction between law and equity. On the
contrary, it is a proceeding in the nature of a bill in .quity to
foreclose a mortgage, in which the facts as well as the law are
to be decided by the court; and al appeal, and not a writ of
error, was the appropriate mode of bringing the case befire
this court. The laws or practice of the Territory cannot regulate the process by which this court exercises its appellate
power. Nor, indeed, can there be any suICli thing as a suit
at law, as contradistinguished from a suit in equity, in the
courts of the Territory, where legal rights and equitable rights
must be blended together and prosecuted in the same suit,
without any regard to the rules and practice of courts of
common law or courts of equity.
Nor was it necessary that the parties who acquired liens on
the mortgaged premises subsequent to the in,. 'gugc iii quis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

129

Boack et al. v. Oha.pmaset a2.

don should join in the appeal. They were not necessary parties in a proceeding in equity to foreclose the mortgage, and
none of them have- appeared to the suit to contest the clairn
of Wakefield. And if it had been otherwise, yet the question
in controversy here is the amount of the debt due from the
-appellant; and-in the case of Forgay v. Conrad, 6 How., 201,
this court-decided that-a defenidant in equity, whose interest is
separate from that of the other defendants, may .appeal without them.

We have no doubt of the jurisdiction of the court upon this
appeal; and the judgment and decree of the Supreme Court
of the Territory inust be reversed, for the error above mentioned.
BRYAm ROACH AND DENNIS LONG, COMPOSING

!HE F RM or
ROACH & LONG, LIBELLANTS AND APPELLANTS, V. W]L IAN
CHAPMAN AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMER CAPITOL,
AND DANIEL EDWARDS AND JOSEPH MAILLOT, SURETIES.

Where a steamboat was built at Louisville, in Kentucky, and the persons who
furished the boilers and engines libelled the vessel in admiralty in the .Dis.
trict Court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, that
court had no jurisdiction of the case.
A coitract for building a ship, or supplying engines, timber, &c, is not a maritime contract. This court so decided in 20 Howard, 400, and now reatfrms
that decision.
The State law of Kentucky, which creates a lien in such a case, cannot confer
jurisdiction on the courts of the United States; and the preceding decisions
of this court do not justify an inference to the contrary.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting in admiralty.
The steamer Capitol was libelled in the District Court of
the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, by
Roach & Long, residing at Louisville, in Kentucky. The libel
was filed under the general admiralty law and the law of the
State of Kentucky for $2,847.48, part of the price of the engine ai)d boilers of the steamer Capitol, furnished at Louisville. The District Court sustained the claim, but the Circuit
.voL. Xxn.
9

