DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
Uantd Stcad v. De Haro', Hdr:.

justice by the suspension of its rules; but this can only be
done where the discretion of the court may fairly be exercised.
Where an entry is required by statute, on a condition expressed, the court is bound by the statute. The language of
the act, that "the appeal shall be considered as dismissed"
where the notice is not filed as required, would seem to admit
of no doubt. "If the appeal shall be considered as dismissed,"
for want of notice, how can the court say it shall not be sc
considered?
If there be no saving in a statute, the court cannot add one
on equitable grounds. The 12th section of the act of 31stAugust, 1852, provides that, in every case in which the board
of commissioners shall render a final decision, it shall be their
duty to have two certified transcripts of their proceedings and
decisiona, and of the papers and evidence on which the same
were founded, made out, one of which transcripts shall be filed
with the clerk, shall ipso facto operate as an appeal for the party
against whom the decision shall be rendered; and if such decision shall be against the private claimant, it shall be his duty
to file a notice with the 'clerk of the court, within six months
thereafter, of his intention to prosecute the appeal; and if the
decision shall be against the United States, it shall be the duty
of the Attorney General of the United States, within six
months after receiving the said transcript, to cause to be filed
with the clerk aforesaid a notice that the appeal will be prosecuted by the United States; and on the failure of either party
to file such notic, with the clerk, the appeal shall be regarded
as dismissed.
This seems to be mandatory on the court, and authorizes
the exercise of no discretion.

THE. U rTD S8aTzs, APPELLaNTS, V. TH HIMS Of FRANOISCO
DI HARO, DECEASED.

There property in California has been in the undisturbed possession of the
claimaut and his heirs for sixteen years, without any other person claiming or-

294

SUPREME COURT.
United State v. De Har'.s H*e.

exercising a possession or right of possession, and it appears that the grant
was originally made by Governor Alvarado during hie term of office, tho
claim will be confirmed.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the northern district of iOalifornia.
The facts of the case and state of the title are fully set forth
in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stantm for the United States, and by
Mr. PhIdl'ps for the appellees.
The principal question in the case was respecting the identity of the houses or the land granted with those claimed in the
petition. Mr. PhIllipi contended that there could be no
stronger proof of this, than that possession had been continuous during the whole time since the date of the grant.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
The petition of the fieirs of Francisco de Haro represents:That on the 30th July, 1843, the fatler of your petitioner
made and presented his petition in writing to Alvarado, Governor of California, soliciting for himself the grant of a lot of
land in the mission of Dolores, to which he had previously
obtained a provisional grant of Jose Ramon de Estrada.
That on the 16th of August, 1843, said Francisco bbtain'ed
a formal grant of said Alvarado to the lot so petitioned for,
and remained in possessio.n thereof up to the time of his
decease; and that, from that time up to this day, your peti-tioners have been and still are in the quiet and undisputed
possession of said land.
That said land is situated in the mission Dolores, and in
the block known and laid'down on the official map of San
Francisco as block.No. 37, and forms the northeast of Centre
and 'Dolores streets, containing fifty Spanish varas squarewhich grant has properly been'recorded in the archives of
California-and that the original documents are herewith
qubmitte to the inspection of your honorable boardL

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

295

United States v. De Haro's Heirs.

Francisco Sanchez was sworn, as to the genuineness of the
grant, and he says: I never saw the paper before, but I have
no doubt it is genuine. I am acquainted with the signatures
of Francisco de =aro and Juan B. Alvarado, having often
seen them write; and I recognise their signatures, as they
appear on said document, as their genuine signatures.
There were some old houses on the land at the time of the
grant, which had belonged to the mission. These were repaired by Francisco de Haro, and in 1846 he was living in
them. The land had been enclosed since by his son-in-law,
Charles Brown. De Haro died there in 1848. The house
was repaired-by de Haro.
Francisco de Haro, over his own signature, represents:
"That being established in the establishment of Dolores, in
houses of the name called 'Mayor domos,' opposite the principal house and plaza; and, as I obtained them from the prefect of the let district, Don Jose Ramon Estrada, I solicit of
your excellency the legitimacy in property, for the exponses
that I have to make to repair them, to live therein with my
family, in virtue of my services rendered, receiving grac from
your excellency, by adding fifty varas eastward of the houses,
inasmuch as I beg most humbly, &c."
August 16, 1843.
Whereas the citizen Francisco de
Haro has rendered interesting services to the nation and to
the Departmental Government, and in virtue of his being
already in possession of the houses solicited by previous consent of the Government, as it is shown by the concession of
the prefect of the district, I have cnncluded by these presents,
in conformity and ratifying said concession jointly with the
fifty varas to the eastward of said houses, as solicited.
The judge of San Francisco will have it so understoou, Ibr
the cases that may occur upon informations in relation to the
new town of Dolores.
ALVARAO.
This claim was at first held not to be valid, and was consequently rejected by the commissioners. Fom this decision
there was an appeal to the District Court. On this appeal a
MONTEREY,

MOST EXCELLENT SIR:

SUPREME COURT.
Unted States v. De Haro's Heirs.

witness, Candelario Valencia, was sworn, who says he is fortyeight years of age, and resides in the mission of Dolores, San
Francisco county, California. The witness first knew Francisco de Haro about thirty years since. He is now dead; he
died in 1847 or 1848, at the mission of Dolores, and in the
building now occupied by Louis Pruso, whikh is on the northeast of Centre and Dolores streets. The lot on which this
house is situated is a fifty-vara lot.
To the question, who are the heirs of Francisco de Haro?
the witness answers: At the time of his death he left eight
children-one died without issue; the names of those living
are as follows; Josefa de Haro, wife of James Dennison-she
was forfierly wife of Guerrera, now dead; Rosalia de Haro,
formerly wife of Mr. Andrews, deceased-now wife of Charles
Brown; Natividad, formerly wife of Ignacio Castio, deceased,
and now of Paul Tissot; Prudencia, unmarried; Candelaria,
unmarried; Charlotta, wife of Fish. Dennison, brother of
James; and Alonzo, not yet of age. Francisco de Harc
lived in the house ten years. It was formerly part of the
establishment of the mission, and was occupied by the mayor
domos; it fronts upon the plaza of the mission, and also is
opposite the principal house of said mission. Since the death
of Francisco de Haro, it has been occupied, and is still, by the
tenants of his heirs. Dolores and Centre streets have always
existed, since the mission was established, but had not their
present names; in fact, they had no names. This lot'in question had the same position that it now has; a surveyor, without any difficulty, could locate saiid lot.
The witness says that he has lived at the mission Dolores
for the last sixteen years, and has seen all that he has testified to.
The final decree of the Circuit Court before both the judgea
was as follows:
This cause came on to be heard upon the transcript of the
proceedings in the board of the United, States land commissioners, &c., and upon the proof taken in this court upon the
appeal from the decision of the said board, taken therefrom by
me complainant; and upon hearing counsel for appellants and

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.
United Satea v. De Haro'sHeirs.

respondent, and due deliberation being thereupon had, &c., it
is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the decision and decree
of the said board be, and the same hereby is, reversed.
And it is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the
claim of the said appellants to the land claimed by them
is valid, and that the same be, and hereby is, confirmed to
them.
The land whereof confirmation is made is that certain fiftyvara lot, situated in the mission Jolores, on the northeast
corner of what are known as Centre and Dolores streets, on
which lot there is a house which formerly formed a part of
the establishment of the mission Dolores, occupied by the
mayor domos thereof-said lot fronting on the plaza, opposite
to the principal house of said mission, and which lot was in
the occupancy of Francisco de Haro for some years previous
to his death, and has been recently in the possession of one
Louis Pruso, as tenant of the claimant, together with and
adding fifty varas to the eastward and immediately adjoining
said houses.
Subsequently, a notice was served on the district attorney,
that the counsel for the complainants will move the court, on
the 14th of Septembe'r, 1857, on that day, or as soon thereafter
as counsel can be heard, that the decree entered in this cause
be reformed, by adding to the description of the property confirmed by the said decree, "together with the parcel of land,
fifty varas square, to the eastward thereof. San Francisco,
September 10th, 1857."
Afterwards, on motion of the district attorney of the United States, "it is ordered that the decree heretofore rendered at this term in the above case be set aside, and that
the cause stand for reargument at the next term of this
court."
And the final entry, upon filing and reading the affidavit of
B. S. Brooks, and upon inspection of a traced copy of the
original grant of title, whereof confirmation was heretofioe
made, certified in due form from the office of the surveyor
general, from which it manifestly appears to the court that
the said grant was originally made and dated by Governor

SUPREME COURT.
MW~le States v. De Haro's Heirs.

Alvarado during his term of office, and that the date- which it
now bears is an evident alteration against the interests of the
claimants, and therefore not to be imputed to them; and upon
filhig a notice of motion and due proof of service thereof upon
the district attorney, of the United States, and counsel having
been heard for both parties, on motion of Mr. Williams, of
uounsel for the claimants, it is ordered that the order heretofore made in this cause, setting aside and vacating the decree
heretofore made confirming the. claim, be, and the same is
hereby, vacated, set aside, and annulled, and said decree revived and reinstated.
From this decree there was an appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States by the Government.
"It appears that al undisturbed possession of the property
claimed has been in the possession of Francisco de Haro and
his heirs sixteen years, and it does not appear that any one
has claimed or exercised a possession or right of possession
over the premises. The copy of the original grant of title,
whereof confirmation was heretofore made, certified in due
form from the office of the surveyor general, from which it
manifestly appears to the court that the said grant was originally made and dated by Governor Alvarado during his term
of office, and the date which it now bears is an evident alteration against the interests of the claimants, and therefore not
to be imputed to them." This, being the language of the court,
imparts verity to the grant, and would seem to settle All doubt
on the subject.
There were some old houses on the land at the time of the
grant, which belonged to the mission, but it would seem no
longer belong to it.
Upon the whole, we cannot doubt, from the title papers, and
especially from the sixteen years' possession which has been
enjoyed by De Haro and his heirs-using the property as their
own, claiming it under the grant-that the title ohould I-e'
confirmed; and it is hereby confirmed

