DECEMBER TERM, 1869.

'815'

Unitd ,States v. Mes 1Hir.

storage, provided the amount does not exceed two thousand
dollars; but the excess beyond that sum they are expressly
required to pay into the Treasury, as part and parcel of the
public money.
Charges against the defendant for rent and storage must be
settled in accordance with these principles. It follows, that
the instruction given by the presiding justice was erroneous;
and we also think that the.first, second, and fourth prayers for
instruction ought to have been given to the jury.
Suits were also instituted against the sureties of the defendant. Judgment was entered in the court below for the respective defendants in those suits, and the causes were removed into this court by writs of error, sued out by the plaintiffs. Those causes were submitted at the same time with the
one-just decided. They depend upon the same principles, and
must be disposed of in the same way.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed in
each of the three cases, and the respective cases are remanded,
with -directions to issue new venires.

THn UIMED

STATES, APPELLANTS, v. Tn WIDOW AND
MARCUS WEST, DECEASED.

mS or

Where a grant of laud in California was genuine, and issued by the proper
authority, a fraudulent attempt to alter it by erasures and interlneations for
the purpose of enlarging the quantity, made after California had been ceded
to the United States, will not vitiate the original grant.
Ihe book called Jimeno's Index is not an authoritative proof of grants eumer-

ated in it, or as a conclusive exclusion of grants not so registered, but may be
referred to -as an auxiliary memorandum made by Jimeno officially while he
was secretary.

TmIs was an appeal from the- District Court of the United
States for the northern district of California.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Stanton, upon a 'brief filed by the &t-

816

SUPREME COURT.ned ,Sta

v.

ees8 m'ar.

torney General, for the United stateis, -4nd brXr.3enham for
the appellees.
The princjIal question was, whether the alteratioi in- the'
oint, the Attorney
grant vitiated it altogether." Upon Akpi
.
General said:
.Ihave already said that I think there was a grant issued by
Jinxeno in 1840, which at the time it issued -was honest and
genuine. If no claim had been made for more than the leaga
and a half comprehended within the boundaries of that grant.
tlib case would have been a clear one in favor of the claimants.
But I insist that a provisional or equitable grant, which may
be converted into a legal title upon the contingency of an
approval by the Departmental Assembly, and the performance
of other conditions, must be regarded as wholly abandoned
when the conditions were not complied with, and another and
a different claim set up under a forged title.
To this argument, Mr. Benham repliedThe claimants"derive title by succession. The grant of the
2d of November is admitted to be genuine. It must be confirmed, to the extent of one league and a half. Its alteration
did not divest the rights which vested under it. It is immaterial who made the alteration; although, as a matter of fact, it
was not made by the claimants, or with their knowledge or
consent.
There- is another grant in the archives, which vested the
land (the league and a half) in West
* Lewis v. Payn, 8..Cowen, pages 75, 76.
'Jackson v. Gould, 7 Wendell, p. 864.
Hatch v. Hatch, 9 Mass., top pages 293, 297, 299o
Doe v. Hirst, 3 Starkie's Rep., p. 60.
Hennick v. Malin, 22 Wendell, p. 89L
8 Preston's Abstracts, 103.
2 H. Blackstone, .263.
Buller's N. P., 267.
The position of Mr. Attorney General, that the alteration
of the grant is an abandonment of title, which will preveni

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

817

Uhii te at v. Wa Heirs.

confirmation by this court, is not tenable. It cat not be held
there was any abandonment when the claimants continued, as
they have always done, to occupy the land.
All the conditions imposed by the Jimeno grant were complied with.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the bourt,"
All of the documents upon which the defendants rely for a
confirmation of their right to the land in dispute, are to be
found on file in the archives among the exftdientes of the
first class. Concerning the genuineness of those which show
that a grant for a league and a half wag originally made to
Marcus West, there can be no denial. They viere admitted
by the Attorney General to be genuine; but he resists the
confirmation of that title, upon the ground that fraudulent
attempts were subsequently made to enlarge the quantity
intended to be grnted, by erasures and interlineations.
West first petitioned for the land, without stating the
quantity. In a few days'afterwards, General Vallejo certified
that the land asked for was vacant, and that it was not within
twenty leagues of the boundary of California, nor within ten
leagues of the sea shore. On the 30th of Octob6r, 1840, a.
report was made to the Governor, that the petitioner had the
qualifications for. receiving a grant, and that the land might
be granted.
Jimeno was then acting as Governor ad interim. He declared West to be etitled to the land, to the extent of a
league and a half, describing particularly its boundaries; and
he made an entry of his executive action in the case, in what
is termed Jimeno's Index.
We do not regard that catalogue of grants as authoritative
proof of grants eu umerated in it, or as a conclusive exclusion
of grants not so registered by Jimeno, which may be alleged
to have been made whilst California was a part of the Mexican
Republic, though they may bear date within the time to which
that index relates. But in this case, it may be referred to as
an auxiliary memorandum made by Jimeno himself of his
uction" upon the petition of West.

818

SUPRM

COURT.

Rjfetd taL v. W'OWOVI

West died before .the claim was acted upon by the United
States commissioners.
We have only to observe, that the fraudulent attempts to
enlarge the grant were made after California had been ceded
to the United States; and though the proof of it is undeniable,
and was an attempt to defraud the United States, that cannot
take away. from the wife and children of West their claim to
the grant, which was made to him before California had been
transferred by treaty.
We affirm the decree of the court, below, conf rming the
grant to West for a league and a half.

Louis L. Rzimpw, A. B. IK. TRET.FoE, .Am~ TERREJNor FARRELLY, EXECUTORS; M Y F. NOTnEBr, WOW, Aim EDWARD C. MORTON MID Ms WIFE, MARY F. MORTON, HrIRs
Or FREDERIoK NOTREBE, DEC0EASD, APPELLAITj, v. WILLIAM

W. WOODPOLK.
The Real Estate Bank of Arkansas was establiahed on a loan by the State of
Arkansas of its bonds, which the bank'sold to form its capitaL The stockholders gave their bonds and mortgaged their lands to the extent of their
subscriptions. Notrebe subscribed tor three hundred shares, and mortgaged
his land for thirty thousand dollars.
Notrebe sold the land with a covenant of warranty, and then died. The purchaser paid all the money, and the widow and heir at law of Notrebe offered
to convey the land by a deed, with a covenant of warranty of title.
The Circuit Court, sitting as a court of equity, decreed that the executors should
remove the encumbrance whenever it could be done, and in the mean time
they should deposit with the clerk of the court bonds of the State of Arkansa
to an amount sufficient to pay Notrebe's subscription, with interest in case the
bank should prove a total loss.
This decree was erroneous.
The purchaser must rely upon his remedy at law under the covenant of'urranty.
He can either take the deed offered by the widow and heir at la%7, or retain
the original agreement.
The caes examined upon the poiun, how far a court of chancery ill interfere in
such a case.

Tas was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
StatoQ for the district of Arkansas.

