THE DECISIONS
OF THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE. UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

JozL PtRMmE,-LAmTjIc

uIERROR, V. ALONZO L. KANz.

Where a deed for land in Wisconsin was voluntarily" .estroyed by the parties
without its being recorded, oad adverse parties were .bonfide purchasers with
out notice, (according to the decision of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin,) the
destroyed deed was inoperative under the statutes of Wisconsin in relation to

the registry of deeds.
A deed which conveyed "an undivided fourth part of the following described*
parcel or tract of land, viz: lots number one and six, being that part oi\the"
northeast quarter lying east of the Milwaukee river," conveys only lots one and
six, and not that part of the northdast quarter which is not included within the
lots one and six.
Where a sale was made by an administrator under the authority'and pursuant
to an order of the Probate Court of the county where the land laid, and the
proceedings were regular except that no guardian was appointed to represent
the heirs, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin decided that this defect was not
sufficient to prevent 'he title fromvesting in the purchaser, and this court
adopts their decision.
Where u decree for the partition of lands was made by a State court hiving
jurisdiction over the subject matter and the parties, which decree was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State, this court cannot inquire, in a hollaleral
action, whether errors or irregulhrities exist in the proceedings.

THis was a'writ of error to the District Court of the United
States for the district ofWisconsin.
The plaintiff in error corhimenced an action of ejectment to

recover an undivided moiety of land in Milwaukee county, inVOL XXII

1

SUPREME COURT.
Parkerv. Kane.

cluded in the fractional section twenty-one, in township seven
north, of range twenty-two east. This fractional-quarter contains one hundred and twenty-nine acres, and lies east of Milwaukee river. It is subdivided into three lots. The northern
portion is called lot number one. The southern half of the
quarter is divided into the east half of the south half of the
quarter, which, is. alsb aesignated as lot number six, and'-the
southwest quarter of the northeast- fractional quarter of the
section. A patent for this land issued to William E. Dunbar,
in August, 1837, by. the description of lot number one,'and the
south half of the northeast quarter of sbction twenty-one, in
.township seven north, of range twenty-two east, in the district
of land subject to sale at Green Bay.. It appears from the case
that Richard Montague was equally interested with Dunbar in
the entry of this parcel of land at the land office; and in the
spring of 1836, Dunbar executed'to hile t deed for the undlvided half of the fractional quarter, which .he did not place on
the records of the county. Subsequently, under a contract be..
tween Dunbar and MQntague, the interest of the latter was"reduced to one-fourth of the fractional quarter, and thereupon
Montague surrendered his first deed, and received one in December, 1837, for one equal undivided fourth"part of the following described parcel or-tract of land, viz: lots one (1). and
six, (6,) .being that pait of the northeast quarter lying east ot
the Milwaukee river, in section number twenty-one, .in towriehip number seven (7).north, of range twenty-two (22) east of
the fourth principal meridian, in 'Milwaukee county. This
undi ided interest waS -claimed througl mesne conveyances
' the plmItiffin.ths suit, and it became -aquestion whether,
upon a construction of this deed, a fourth part of the entire
fractional.-quarter passed, or-only.a fourth part of the parcela,
1bts~dn'e'and six."-

, .-.--.-

-. "

-

"The plaihtiff'-in: 'addition,o th" right of Montague, also
acquired 9 tifi'6 a fourth pirit f the fraci6nal quarter, from
San., undivided moiety
of lots one and six, and to a un1vied fourthpa4 o .tl1 r¢.:
mainerfthefrqagtsional .q arteru.ngh
o~.th
,f~cti~ny~
t spupd. .,After the deoth o

rte
hna,

DECEMBER, TERM, 1859.

8

Parkerv. Kane.

the undivided half of the entire fraction, and an 'additional
fourth of the southwest quarter of the fraction, Vested in petsons with whom the defendant was connected. The only controversy at this stage of the tr ,nsaction was for the one-fourth
1art of the southwest quarter of the section, arising out of the
ambiguous descripiion in the deed of Dunbar to Montague,
and the sale by the guardian of the children of Dunbar of the
fourth part which was claimed by, Montague and his assigns
in that portion of the ,fraction.' Ih 1850, the claimants of
three-eighths of the parcels one and'six, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of Milvaukee cofinty for a partition against the
known and unknown owners of the remaining interests, the
.plaintiff in this suit being niadd a party. Publication was
made of the proceeding, and the owners appeared to the bill.
The plaintit"Parker, answeed, claiming to have one-half. In
Juhe- 1851, an order'of the dourt describes the interest of the
respective parties, and that of the plaintiff (Parker) is recognised. On the same day, a report of the clerk, that the greater
part of the land Wis so situated'as to be susceptible of division,
lut that the Water power on the Milwaukee river could not be
divided, and AA ten acres, or whatever Was necessary to the
water power, should be sold, was submi~teito the court. This
repor
as made iiiruia t to an order 6fd'th'court" previously
made. Three "comrmissioners 'were appointed -to make" the
pafitilon. The ljocedinm'Weroe cntinued until A pril,'1854,
when the eoimmissi6ners rihde their report.'-In this xeport,
thirty-seven and 'oui hrindred and ninety-seven' thousandths
acres were all6tted by metes and 'bounds to the plantfif, "the
same being, quality and quantity relatively considered, one full
equal one-half part of the said lands, exceptI thf portion set
apart to be sold in conneteioof the W.4er power o.na4d'appurt njit to' the land. There were two and thirty-six hundiedths acres in this parcel. This report was confirmed in
April, 1854; and the several paicels vested in the several alIctiees t6'be had, held: and enjoyed,, by 'them-and 't
heirs.
In May 18 4, the. plaihtiff, upon' ffidavits filed, moved to set
aside the order of confirmation:
1. Because the commissioners Appointed herein 'hvdv not

SUPREME COURT.
Parkerv. Zane.

designated the several shares and portions of the different
parties, by posts, stones; or other permanent monument.
2. Because their report does not describe the lands divided
and the shares allotted with sufficient certainty.
3. Because said commissioners have not divided the real estate
in their report mentioned, allotting to the respective partieshereill the several portiois., quality and quantity respectively considered, according to the respective rights and interest of the parties, as adjudged and decreed by this court, but that siid divriion
is manifestly unfair, and against the rights of the defendant.
4. Because, by said division, this defendant does not receive,
either in quantity, quality, or value, one-half of the lands
divided by said commissioners, but -receives less than one-half
of said land.
The adverse parties also filedd affidavits. The surveyor was
required to remove the first objection by placing the monu
ments prescribed by the statute; and in January, 1855, the
repor'was again ratified and confirmed, and the partition
decreed to be vilid. From this decree fin -appeal was taken
to the Supreme Court, and that court affirmed the decree, and
remanded the cause, with directions to establish posts and
monuments according .to the partition made.
The parties who fired the bill for partition of the lots
one and six, filed another bill for the partition, of the southwest quarter of the fractional quarter section. To this bill,
the plaintifi Parker, was also made. a party, and filed an
answer. This suit has not been brought to a conclusion.
Hat about the time of filing his answers in the two cases, the
plaintiff himself filed a bill disclosing the circumstances in
which Montague had become interested in the entire fractional quarter;'-the surrender of his first deed, and the execution of the second; the ambiguous de.scription of the property
in that second deed, and the justice of his claim to an -interest
in the fourth part of the- entire quarter under it. .He insisted
that lie had a good title, either in law or in equity, to this
fourth part. To this bill the neirs and representatives of
Duhib were parties, as well as the purchasers of the threefurtlhs part of that parcel of the quarter section.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

5

Parker v. Kane.

The prayer of the bill was, that the heirs and purchasers of
he estate of the heirs might be compelled to convey an undivided fourth of that quarter to him, and, if necessary, that the
deed of Dunbar to Montague and the mesne conveyances
might be corrected according to, the right of the .parties.
But in case that the claimants -had a good title, then that he
might have a decree for the money paid by them to the representatives of Dunbar. He prayed that the partition suit be
connected with his suit, and that thej might be heard together.
The several defendants answered the bill, and upon a hearing in the Circuit Court it was dismissed. In the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin, an appeal from the claim of the plaintiff
to relief against one of the purchasers who had failed to plead
the statute of limitations, and had notice, was recognised;
also his claim to the money paid to the heirs of Dunbar for
the undivided fourth of the land in dispute. The decree of
the Circuit Court was affirmed as to those who had pleaded
the bona fide& of their purchase and the act of limitations.
The suit in the District C6urt of the United States proceeds
upon the assumption that the plaintiff is not concluded by
either of these decrees. That the partition made of lots one
and six was illegal, because the formalities prescribed by the
statute were x.iot complied with. That the purchasers at the
sale of the estate of the minor heirs of Dunbar acquired no
title from that sale, because the heirs were not represented in
the proceedings by a guardian, and were minors. But if they
acquired any title, they took it subject to the rights and claims
of the plaintiff, and those under whom he claims, whether
such purchasers at the guardian's sale had notice or not. The
plaintiff contended that, upon a fair construction of the lost
deed to Montague, an interest equal to one-fourth of the fraction passed; but if that were not the case, that he was entitled
to hld under the deed executed by Dunbar, in 1836, to
Montague. That the destruction of this deed did not defeat
the title of Montague under it, or revest the title in Dunbar,
Appropriate prayers for instructions were made and refused
in the District Court, and exceptions were duly taken The
jury were instructed that the plaintiff, Parker, was a party te

SUPREME COURT.
Parkerv. Kane.

the partition suit in Milwaukee county, and that the decree in
that suit was conclusive, and that the decree in the case of
Parker v. Kane and others, in equity, bound this suit to the
extent of that decree.
The jury returned a verdict for the defendant.
It was argued in this court by Mr. Gittings and 31r. 1JXaien
for the plaintiff in error, and Air. Brown for the defendant.
The brief filed on behalf of the plaintiff in error was very
voluminous. The argument upon one point only can be
given.
6. The bill in equity prosecuted by the plaintiff against
Tweedy, Kane, Montague, and others, furnishes no bar to this
suit. That was a bill to obtain a reformation of the second
deed from Dunbar to Montague, and of the deed from
Montague to Fisk, in order that those deeds should so describe
tCe land as to relieve the case from further controversy.
The plaintiff filed that bill in the Milwaukee Circuit Court,
January 10th, 1851, against the heirs of Dunbar and their
guardian, and the purchasers, Kane, Brown, and Tweedy, andf
against Montague, to have certain mistakes in the deeds cor-'
rected. The bill, set forth the agreement in 1835 between
Dunbar and Montague, that Montague should furnish money
to purchase the quarter section, and that they should own thq
land together as tenants in common. That Montague did ad .
vance the money, and Dunbar did purchase the land. It set
forth the deed of 1836, conveying one-half of the land, the sale
by Montague of one-fourth to Dunbar, the agreement to deliver, up the deed of 1836, and to take a deed of one-fourth of
the tract described in it; that Dunbar executed what was
understood and intended to be a deed*of one-fourth of all said
land;- that, in drawing this deed, there was a mistake in not
inserting and conveying an undivided fourth of said southwest
quarter, of said northeast quarter, and, if an undivided one-fourth
of said southwest quarter of said northeast qarterdid not pass bp
that deed to Montague, he had by virtue of said prior deed the
egal title thereto, and, by virtue of such subsequent agree.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

7

Parker v. Kane.

ment, the equitable title thereto, when said last deed was delivered and recorded. The bill then set out the conveyance
by Montague to Chapin, in 1888,, of bne-sixteenth, by a warranty deed, and by a description which embraced the whole
quarter section, and a conveyance by Chapin to tho plaintiff of
that one-sixteenth, May 18, 1841.
It then set forth, that Montague, October 27, 1842, conveyed
to Fisk thrbe-sixteenths of lots one and six, (giving the same
description as is given in Dunbar's last deed to Montague;)
that Fisk purchased, and Montague intended to convey, and it
was understood between them that the deed did convey, threesixteenths of the whole quarter; and that if it did not, there was
a mistake in the deed.
It then set out a cenveyance through the heirs of Fisk. to
plaintif; of all their right and interest, and thereupon averred
that the plaintiff had the title, either legal or equitable, to one
undivided fourth part of the west half of the southwest quarter
of said northeast quarter, under and by virtue of the conveyances aforesaid, and of the agreements therein set forth.
The bill then set forth the death of Dunbar in 1846; that
the guardian of his infant heirs had sold to 0. J. Kane an
undivided fourth of said west half, being the precise fourth
which the plaintiff claimed; and that Kane bid it off, and
conveyed to Tweedy, Brown, and Becman. It alleged notice to them, &c., and prayed that Montague and the heirs
and purchasers under Dunbar might be compelled to convey
one-fourth part of the southwest quarter to the plaintiff, and,
if necessary, that the deeds, Dunbar to Montague, and Montague to Fisk, might be corrected so as to conform to the tinderstanding, intention, and agreement, between the parties; and
he prayed for all general and equitable relief in the premises.
But a small part of the answers is material to the present
question. Montague admitted the statements of the bill, and
set forth, that since the commencement of the suit, he had
executed a quit-claim deed to the plaintiff.
Tweedy made a statement of facts, from which it appeared
that he had notice. Kane denied notice, and, alleging that
the. mistake, if any, in the deed Dunbar to Montague, wag

SUPREME COURT.
Parker v. Kane.

made more than ten years before the suit, claimed the benefit
of the statute of limitations. Waldo (made a defendant on
the death of Becman) did the same.
Upon a hearing, the Circuit Court entered a decree, which
it was not competent for the court to make, because the mat.
ter in question was only, whether the plaintiff was entitled to
have the deed of 1887 corrected. Even supposing that the
deed.-does, as the plaintiff contends, in fact, convey one full
quarter of the section, it does not convey it in the terms
which should have been used. The description of the premises
should have been precisely like that in the first deed, except
the substitution of one-fourth part for one-half, and then there
would have been no further controversy. The plaintiff, in
his bill, sedulously excluded any admission that he had not a
legal title. He alleged that he wa remediless at law respect.ng the subject matter of the bill, to -wit: respecting the
mistake. The plaintiff never proposed to tr his legal title
in a bill in equity, and no attempt was made to sustain the
bill on that title.
There was no claim set up Lnder the deed of 1836 as an
instrument of conveyance; but it was referred to, to- show the
equity. The decree filed in the Circuit Court of Milwaukee
is a legal curiosity, the credit for which is perhaps due to the
defendant's counsel. The plaintiff brought his bill to have
a mistake in a deed from Dunbar to Montague corrected.
The decree assumes, in the first place, to find that certain of the
defendants are bonafide purchasers without notice of the plaintiff's equities, and therefore it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that a deed from Dunbar to Montague, the description of
which, by the way, does not agree with any deed in the case,
is held and declared to be inoperative and ineffectual to affect
the rights of said defendants, as such purchasers, then that
those defendants, as such purchasers, have acquireda good ana
perfect title as against the complainant; and not only so,. but
against all others claiming or to claim by, through, or under said
deed, to the land in dipute; and then the decree undertakes tQ settle and establish the proportions in which the de.
rendalt own the land as between themselves.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

9

.Par*er v. .kane.

Why it did not proceed to order that the plaintiff, and, all
others claiming or to claim anything against the defendants,
should deliver up their deeds to be concelled, and be forever
estopped to l rosecute any other suit, does not distinctly appear. That might, it is submitted, have been ordered with
equal propriety. In the conclusion, it does the only thing it
was proper for the court to do, if the suit was not maintained;
that is, it dismisses the plaintiff's bill.
In determining .he effect of the suit, the court and decree
will look to the whole record, and not merely to what the
counsel have caused to be filed as a decree.
Bainbrigge v. Baddeley, 2 Phill. Oh., 710.
Guert v. Warren, 9 Ex. Ch., (W. H. and Good.,) 879;
Hob., 53.
The insertion in a decree of matter which ought not to be
there, cannot affect the right of a party entitled.
Holland v. Oruft, 3 Gray, 187.
See Mondel v. Steel, 8 M. and W., 858, 872.
In fact, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin understood the
bill to be for a reformation of the deed only. In the opinion,
it is said, "the cause, or matter of complaint, to relieve him
from which the complainant filed his bill in this cause, originated in a mistake committed in the descriptive part of a deed
executed on the 18th day of December, 1837," &c.; and then
it is said that the cause for such a bill had occurred and was
complete upon the delivery of the defective deed.
The decree of the Supreme Court affirmed the decree of the,
court below as to Kane, Waldo, and Brown, and reversed it
as to all the rest, by which the court doubtless meant to
affirm the decree so far only as'it determined the matters in
issue. Brown had disclaimed, and his disclaimer was not
controverted. Kane and Waldo had insisted upon the statute
of limitations of ten years, applicable to remedies for mistakes;
and the decree of the court below and the court above gave
them the benefit of it. A decree was entered against Tweedy,.
because he had not pleaded the statute.
The plaintiff submits therefore that the plaintiff's equitable
title to have relief, on ac-ount of the misLake in the second

SUPREME COURT.
Pak er v. Kama
deed, Dunbar to Montague, and the deed, Montague to Fisk,
were the only matters in issue in that suit; and that he failed
to sustain his suit against Kane and Waldo, only upon the
ground, that that remedy was barred by the statute. This
furnishes no bar to any other remedy whih be seeks, and no
decree which the court could enter would bar the present
suit.
Bainbrigge v. Baddeley, 2 Ph. Ch., 705.
Mason's Ex'rs. v. Alston, 5 Seld., 28.
Callander v. Dittrich, 4 Scott Nq. R., 682.
Kelsey v. Murphey, 26 Penn., 78.
Buttrick v. Holden, 8 Cush., 233.
Pleasants o. Clements, 2 Leigh, 474.
Hotchkiss v. Nichols, 3 Day, 138.
McNamara v. Arthur, 2 Ball and Beat., 353.
Lessee of Wright v.Deklyne, Pet. .C.0., 198, 202.
Upon this point, the argument of Hr. Brown was as follows:
Point Third. A bill for the partition of the southwest forty
acres was also filed, in which Kane and Parker .were parties.
For the purpose of enabling the court properly to adjudicate
upon the interests of the parties, and of establishing his rights
to the ten acres in question in this ejectment suit, Parker filed
his bill in chancery, in the nature of a cross-bill, setting forth,
substantially, the same facts upon which he here seeks to
recover.
To thie bill, Kane and others filed answers; and a decree
was entered, confirming the title of *Kane under the deea of
the guardian, and also disaffirming every right of Parker
under the alleged deed from Dunbar.
From this decree, the' plaintiff in this suit Parker) appealed
to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin;. and by them the decree
of the court below was affirmed as to XKai6 and the whcle
matter was thereby disposed of..
Parker v. Kane et al., 4 Wisconsin, 1.
The whole matter thereby became rea qfidk^. and no
court can collaterally set aside ths decrees.
Gould v. Stanton, 16 Conii. Rep.I 12.
Wendell v. Lewis, 6 Paige Ch.Rep.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

1l

Parerv. Kanm.

Woodruff v. Cook, 2 Edw. Oh. Rep., 259.
Bank of the U. S. v. Beverly, 1 Howard Rep., 134.
Hopkins v. Lee, 6 Wheaton, 109.
Washington Bridge Co. v. Stewart, 3 How. Rep., 418.
Kerr v. Watts, 6 Wheaton, 550.
Outrom v. Morehead, 3 East. Rep., 346.
Eastman v. Laws, 5 Bing. N. C., 450.
Manchester Mills, Douglas, 222.
And this court has, in cases wher6 adjudications have been
made by inferior tribunals, recognised the necessity of leaving
titles undisturbed.
Grignon, Lessee, v. Astor, 2 Howard, 319.
See, also, United States v. Booth, 21 Howard 506.
Haskell v. Rowe, 1 McCord Oh., p. 22.
Kennedy v. Meredith, 1 Monroe, 409.
Campbell v. Price, 3 Munford, 227.
White v. Atkinson, 2 Call., 376.
Dodd v. Astor, 3 Barbour Ch. Rep., 395.
Schurmtan v. Weatherton, 1 East., 541.
D)owner v. Cross, 2 Wisconsin, 371.
Cole v. Clark, 3 Wisconsin, 829.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff sued in ejectment to recover certain parcels of
land included in the northeast fractional quarter of section
twenty-one, in township seven north, of range iwenty-two
east, in the district of lands subject to sale 'at Green Bay, and'
'
are situated in the city of Milwaukee.
three lots. Lot
into
subdivided
is
quarter
The fractional
number one is north of a line running east and west, that
bisects the quarter section; lot number six corresponds to the
southeast quarter of the quarter section; and the third lot is
a tract of forty acres, and is known as the southwest quartei
of the.northeast quarter of the section, township, and range,
above mentioned.
A patent issued to William E. Dunbar for this fractional
quarter, in 1837, from the United States, in which the land is
-letwribed as "the lot number one,*aud south half of the north.

SUPREHE COURT.
Parker v. Kane.

east quarter of section twenty-one, in township number seven
north, of.range twenty-two east, of the district of lands," &c.
In the same year, Dunbar and wife conveyed to Richard
Montague ':one equal undivided fourth part of the following
described parcel or tract of land, viz: Lots one (1) and six, (6,)
being that part of the northeast quarter lying east of the
Milwaukee river, in section number twenty-one, in township
number seven (7) north, of range twenty-two east," &c.
The plaintiff, upon the trial of the cause in the District
Court, connected himself with this deed (which was duly recorded) by legal conveyances. Besides the title under this
deed, he exhibited a title from Dunbar and wife to an undivided fourth of the whole fraction; all of which lies east of
Milwaukee river. That the plaintiff had at one time a title
to an undivided half of lots one and six, was not disputed;
but his claim to an undivided fourth of the southwest quarter
of the fraction, under the deed of Dunbar to Montague, was
a matter of controversy.
The defendant connected himself with the patent of Dunbar,
by showing a sale by the administrafor of his estate, under
the author ity of'the Court of Probate of Milwaukee, of an
undivided one-half of the entire fractional quarter patented to
him, and a sale and conveyance by the guardian of the heirs
of Dunbar of an undivided f6urth part of the southwest quarter of the fraction, under a decree of the Circuit Court of
Milwaukee, sitting in chancery, and a purchase by persons
under whom lie claims.
The defendant, to repel the claim of tim plaintiff to any
interest in the land possessed by him in lots numbers one and
six, produced the. record of proceedings and decrees in the
Circuit Court of Milwaukee county, in chancery, for the
partition of those lots among the plaintiff and his co-tenants,
with the latter of whom the defendant is a privy in estate.
This record shows -that a petition was made by the co-tenants
of the plaintiff for a partition of these lots, according to their
rights and interests. The plaintiff was made a party, appeared
and answered, and there was a decretal order for a partition
Commissionertvwere appointed to divide the lots, who imade

DECE-MBER TERM, 1859.
Parkerv. Kane.

a report to the court that appointed them. That the plaintiff
rpade objections to the proceedings, was overruled, and afterwards appealed to the Supreme Court. That the Supreme
Court revised the proceedings of the Circuit Court, and
aitirmed its decree in the most important particulars, and gave
some directions, which, being fulfilled to the satisfaction of
the Circuit Court, a final order of confirmation, and to vest
the title in the parties to their several allotments, was made.
The plaintiff objects to*these proceedings:
1. That there was no authority to make a several partition'
between the complainants. 2. There was no authority to
make a partition, subjecting the land set off as his share to an
easement. 3. There was no authority to make a partition by
a plat, without the establishment of permanent monuments.
4. There was no reference to a proper person to inquire into
the situation of the premises, after the decree settling the rights
of the parties. 5. The commissioners had" no power to set
apart and designate any portion of the land for sale, as they
undertook to do. 6. The court did not ascertain and distinctly declare whether any part or what part should be sold; but
its language was hypothfetical and uncertain. All the subsequent proceedings must fall, for want of the foundation 6f
such a decree. 7.It does not appear that all the commissioners met together, in the performance of their several duties, as
required by the statute.
The statutes of Wisconsin provide for the partition of estates
held in common, by a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Courte
of the county in which the land is, and for a sale of the premises when a partition would be prejudicial to the owners. The
court upon the hearing may determine and declare the rights,
Uitles, and interests, of the parties to the proceedings, and order
a partition. It may appoint commissioners to execute the decree, who are required to make an ample report of their pro6eedings to the court, in which it can be confirmed cr set aside.
When a partition is completed, the court may enter a decree;
and thereupon the partition is declared to be "firm and effectual fbrever," and "to bind and conclude" all the parties named
therein.

SUPREME COURT.
Parker v. Kame

The decrees are subject to-the revising power of the Supreme
Court. In reference to the objections made by.the plaintiff, it
is sufficient to say that some of them were made in the courts
of Wisconsin without effect, and all might have been urged
there at a proper stage in the proceedings. Kane v. Parker,
4 Wis., 128.
That it .sufficiently appears that the subject was within the
jurisdiction of those courts, and the proper parties were before
them; and this court, conformably to their established doctrine, acknowledge the validity and binding operation of these
orders and decrees, and determine that this court cannot inquire whether errors or irregularities exist in them in this collateral action. Thompson ,. Tolmie, 2 Pet., 157; Grignon v.
Astor, 2 How., 819; Beauregard v. ].\Tew Orleans, 18 How.,
197.
A t the time that~the .partition of lots numbers one and six
was sought for, a petition was filed in the same court by the
same parties for a partition of the southwest quarter' of the
fractional quarter section described in Dunbar's patent. The
plaintiff had an acknowledged interest in that parcel, independently of his claim under Montague, and was made a party to that suit.
In his answer to the petition he refers to this claim under
Montague, and the mesne conveyances that connect him with
the deed of Dunbar to Montague. He stated, that, it being uncertain whether that deed of Dunbar would be sustained as
sufficient by.the couit to convey a lgal title to a fourth part of
that parcel, he designed to file a bill in equity, for the purpose
of having his title ascertained, end"to have his conveyances
reformed, if need be, so that his claim under that deed could
be established and. confirmed. In the same month he filed- in
the same court a bill in equity against the heirs of Dunbar and
their guardian, and the purchasers under the decrees, obtained
by the administrator and guardian, for the sale of the parcels
in the fractional quarter described in Dunbar's patent.
He charges in this bill that Montague was equally interested
with Dunbar, at the date of his entry in the land office, in the
entire fraction, and furnished the money for the purpose of

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

15

Park r v. Kane.

making it; that Dunbar gave to Montague a deed for dne-haff,
according to the description in the certificate of purchase from
the register of the land office. That by a subsequent contract
his interest was reduced to one-fourth. That his first deed not
being recorded, he surrendered it to Dunbar, who destroyed
it. That the deed for the fourth part was made to fulfil the
agreement for title to a fourth of the whole fraction ; and that
Dunbar represented this deed to .be sufficient, and during his
life acknowledged that it was sufficient, and that Montague
:
was a joint and equal owner with him.
He avers that. these facts constitute him the owner of onefourth of the entire fraction, either at law or in equity. He
refers to the sales of a larger interest than they really owned,
by the heirs of Dunbar, through their guardian, and to the,
pendency of the suits of partition. He prays that the court
will require the defendants in the bill'to release their title to
the interest embraced in 'his clairn,"and that his ednveyances
may be reformed, if need be,-to express his legal and'equitable
* rights; but if the court should decide that the guardian of the
children bf Dunbar had- conveyed a good and valid title 'as
against him, he prayed for a personal decree for the proceeds
-of his sale: He als6 prayed that this suit might be heard with
the parititioxi suit-of the claimants under Dunbar's administra-'
tor and the guardian of his children, and f'6r all general 'and
equitable relief
The purchasers asserted in 'their answers the superiority
of their legal and equitable title, and pleaded that they were
bona fide purchasers, and all, exc-ept onei also pleaded the
statute of limitations. The guardian" answered, that he had
made the sale in good faith, under a valid decree, and under
th6 belief that his wards were entitled to the estate.
The Circuit Court, upon the pleadings and proofs, dismissed
,he bill of the plaintiff, and declared in the decree that the
defendants had a valid title as bonafide purchasers, not affected
by the registered deed from Dunbar to Montague.
I From this decree the plaintiff appealed 'fo the Supreme
Court. That court affirmed the decree of the Circuit 'Court
-as to alltbe purehasers,-except one.- .Theysay the plaintiff.is'

SUPREME COURT.
Parker v. Ka.

not entitled to relief under the first deed of Dunbar to Mon
tague, which had been destroyed; for, admitting that the
destruction of the deed did not distuibb the title, nevertheless,
in view of the statute of frauds, and the rule of evidence that
.statutW established, a grantee in a deed, who had voluntarily,
and without fraud or mistake, destroyed his deed, could not
establish his title. One of the purchasers, who had notice of
the plaintiff's claim, and had failed to plead the statute ot
limitations, was decreed to release his title to the plaintiff,
aid the guardian was required to account to him for the price
he had received. Parker v. Kane, 4 Wis., 1. The defendant
is a privy in estate with the successful litigants in this cause,
and relies upon the decree as a bar.
We have seen that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
Milwaukee, under the statute of Wisconsin, in matters of partition, extends to the ascertainment and determitiation of the
rights of the parties in matters of partition, and that its decree
is final and elfctual for their adjustment. That court is also
clothed .with power, at the suit of a person having a legal title
and possession, to call any claimant before it, to quiet a disputed title. Rev. Stat. Wis., 573, sec. 20; 417, see. 34.
The bill seems to have been framed on the distinct and.
declared purpose of obtaining from the courts of Wisconsin
an authoritative declaration of the legal as well as equitable
rights of these parties under their conflicting titles, with a
view to the partition of the entire fractinal quarter section,
suits for which were then pending; and the prayer of the bill,
ti.at if the conveyance of the guardian "passed a good and
valid title against the plaintiff," that then he might be indemnified by a decree for the proceeds of the sale in the hands of
the-guardian, submitted the legal as well as the equitable relations of the parties, under their respective titles, to the judgment of the court.
The reversal of the decree of the Circuit Court by the Supreme Court, and their decision that the guardian should
account for the proceeds of the sale in his hands, is a direct
response to this prayer, and implies that the recorded deed of
Dunbar to Montague did not convey a legal title to this frac-

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

17

Parkerv. Kane.

tLion. We question whether the voluntary dismissal of the
bill, as to Martineau, the guardian, subsequently to its return
in the Circuit Court, will qualify this decree, or limit its effect
as res judicata of the legal right. 30 Miss. R., '66; 2 Free
Ch. R., 158; 9 Simon R., 411; Eng. Orders in Ch., 1845,
n. 117.
. In Great Britain, a Chancellor might have
considered this
as a case in which to take the opinion of a court of law, or
to stay proceedings ih the partition and cross-suits until an
action of law had been tried, to determine the legal title.
Rochester v. Lee, I McN. and G., 467; Clapp v. Bronagham,
9 Cow., 530. But such a proceeding could not be expected
in a State where the powers of the courts of law and equity
are exercised by the same persons. The parties to this ejectment and the suit in. chancery court of -Wisconsin are the
same, or are privies in estate. The same parcel of land is the
subject of controversy, and the object of the suit, if not identical, is closely related.
The object of the-bill in chancery, as we -have seen, was to
obtain from the court a decision upon the legal and equitable
titles of the plaintiff, with the immediate view to a partition.
If the decision hu4 been made in his favor, it is true that a
change of possession-would not have taken place, as an immediate consequence, but it would have conclusively established the right of the plaintif, either in an action of ejectment or upon a writ of right.
The object of the suit of the plaintiff in chancery was to obtain a recognition of the sufficiency of his. deeds, as .entitling
him to the land, -or to supplytheir defects, or to ,afford him
iidemnity, by subjecting thie price that his adversaries had
paid for the land to a tortious vendor having the legal title.
The object of the ejectment suit is to recover the land by
means of the title disclosed in the deeds. A portion of the
judges find in the two suits eandem causam petendi, and that the
decrees of the Circuit and Supreme Courts of Wisconsin embraced the decision of the same questions, and are conclusive
of this controversy. .Bank of U. S. v. Beverly, 1 How., 135.
But if the plaintiff is not concluded by the proceedings of the
9
vorL. XXII

SUPREME COURT.
Park. v. Kane.

courts of Visconsin, the question arises, whether his legal
title will support his claim to 'the interest in the southwest
quai tei of the fraction.
The first'deed from Dunbar to Montague was destroyed before the second was made, and it never was placed upon
record. "The decree of the courts of Wisconsin shows that
the puichasers of the guardian were bonafi e purchasers without notice. That deed is therefore inoperative, under the
3tatutes of Wisconsin in relation to the registry of deeds.
Territorial Statutes of Wisconsin, 179, sec. 10; Rev. Stat. of
Wis.,.329, 350, secs. 24, 4,. 85.

We.agree with the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, that the
recorded deed from Dunbar to ' iotague did not convey any
part of the fractional quarter, ex ept that contained in loW
numbers one and six. Lot number one is a subdivision of the
fractional quarter section, and is designated in the plat of survey,'as well as in the patent. Lot number, six is referred to
in ihe pleadings and proofs as a known and recognised parcel,
corresponding with an official' siibdivislon; and, upon referring to the official surveys in thi General Land Office, we lnd
that it is, as we had supposed. it from the .evidence in the
recotd to be, noted' there. The 'cdeed of Dunbar -designates
these subdii~isns as th6'"oris bf' his conveyance; and' as a
further -description, adds, "being that part of the northeast
quarter lyiag east of the.Milwaukee river."
These lots ie east of the Milwaukee river, but there is within the fractional quaiter a fract equally distinct, and marked
as lots numbers one and six, and this fact has occasioned this
'bntroversy. The descriptioni of the propety conveyed as lots
numbers "one' and six of the fractional quarter is .a complete
identification of tiheland, having reference to the. official surveys of the United States, according to which their .sales are
made. The more general and less definite description cannot
control this; but whatever is inconsistent with itwill be rejected, unless there is something in. the deed, or the local
situation of the property, or of the 'possession enjoyed, to
modify the application of this rule. ' It cannot be controlled
by the d&'claationz-of the parties, or by proof of the regotia.

DECEMBER TERM, 1859.

19

Whik et aZ. v. Wright e al.

Lions or agreements on which the deed was executed. Hall v.
Combes, Cro. Eliz., 368; Jackson v. Moore, 6 Cow., 706;
Drew v. Drew, 8 Foster, 489; 4 Cruise Dig., 292; 85 N. H.
R., 121; 5 Metcalf, 15.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion there is no error in
the record injurious to the plaintiff and that the judgment ot
the Distribt Court must be affirmed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

J. J. B. WHITE (DEFENDANT)

AND GiLBimT S. HAwKINS AND
PETER J. COCKBURN, bOMPOStNG THE FIRM OP OAKEY, HAWKflmS, & Co., AND MRS. W. C. W. FAUST, WIDOW, AND MRS.

REBECCA 3. WHITE, AIDED AND ASSISTED BY -ER HusBAND,
J. J. B. WHITE, (INTERVENOMs,) PLnINTs IN ERROR, v.
WRIGHT, WILLIAMS, & CO.
Where the question decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana was, that the
introduction of a judgment obtained in Mississippi for the same cause of action
which was then before the court of Louisiana was not such an alteration of the
substance of the demand as was forbidden by the code of practice, this is not

a question which can be revised by this court under the twenty.fifth Bection
of the judiciary act; it being merely a uestion of pleading and evidence in
support of a new allegation, arising according to the practice in Louisiana s6
a'to reach the-merits of the case.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court. of
Louisiana by a writ of.error issued under the twenty-fifth
section of the judiciary act.
It originated in tbe Fourth District Court of gew Orleans,
upon the petition of Hamilton W. Wright, who stated that
he was the sole assiiee of the lights and interests of the late
commercial firm of Wright, Williams, & Co. The petition
then stated that J. J. B. White, who resided out of the State
of Louisiana, was indebted tb the petitioner, as such assignee,:
in the. 4um of $9,509.32 with interest and prayed for an
attachment upon his property. The writ was issued, and,
%cvicdupon one hundred nd- fifty-four'bales of cotton or

