OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

the order that I have supposed. I repeat. When I observe that the only powers expressly given to the Postmaster General to prevent the cahiage of unlawful matter
of the present kind are to stop and to return papers already existing and posted, when I notice that the conditions expressly attadhed to the second-class rate look
only to wholly different matters, and when I consider
the ease with which the power claimed by the Postmaster
could be used td interfere with very sacred rights, I am
of opinion that the refusal to allow the relator the rate
to which it was entitled whenever its newspaper was
carried, on the ground that the paper ought not to be
carried at all, was unjustified by statute and was a serious
attack upon liberties that not even the war induced Con,gress to infringe.

PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES EX REL. NEWTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF 'THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 123. Argued December 16, 1920.-Decided March 14, 1921.
1. After the lapse of two years from the date of the issuance of a
receiver's receipt upon.a final entry under the homestead law, if no
contest or protest against the validity of the entry be then pending,

the Land Department is required, by § 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891,
to issue a patent for the land. P. 442. Lane v. Hoglhnd, 244 U. S. 174.
2. The purpose of this provision is to give the entryman, after the
time limited, the advantage of the patent and legal title and thus

transfer any later controversy over the validity of the entry from
the department to the courts. P. 444.
3. The duty to issue the patent is not suspended by the initiation after
the two years have elapsed of proceedings in thr department to

PAYNE v. NEWTON.
438.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

cancel the entry and in the District Court to cancel the final certificate and receipt, upon the ground of fraud. P. 444.
48 App. D. C. 547, affirmed.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Garnett, with whom Mr.
Assistant Attorney General Nebeker and Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, were on
the briefs, for plaintiffs in error:
A writ of mandamus should not issue in this case, in view
of the pendency of the suit in equity brought to cancel for
fraud the receipt and certificate issued on relator's entry.
Knight v. United States Land Association, 142 U. S. 161,
178; Turner v. Fisher, 222 U. S. 204; Power v. Rose, 219
Illinois, 46, 58, 59.
. To require the Government to wait until patent issued
before bringing suit to vindicate its rights might result in
serious embarrassment. It might, for instance, be urged in
defense of such a suit that the Government passed title
to the land when it knew of the fraud as fully and completely as it did when it brought its suit. Again, the right
of a transferee might intervene to the prejudice of the
Government's right to recover the land. Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, 245 U. S. 308, 312.
The relator being guilty of fraud, is not entitled to
relief by mandamus. High, Extraordinary Legal Remedies, 3d ed., § 26; Duncan Townsite Co. v. Lane, supra,
311, 312..
Th3 proviso to §7 of the Act of March 3, 1891, does not
bar action by the Secietary of the Interio in cases of
fraud.
Distinguisbing Lane v. Hoglund, 2-4 U. S. 174.
The solicitude
of Congress in the enactment of the legislation was for the bona fide claimant. To intepret it
otherwise would be to impute to Congress a purpose to
condone and reward fraud.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.,

255 U. S.

A further indication that the proviso was not to apply
when fraud was shown is in the language of the preceding
.portion of § 7, providing for issuance of patent only where
the rights of a purchaser without fraud have intervened.
Can it be fairly or reasonably asserted that after so protecting the Government against fraud Congress intended
in the very next part of the section to provide for issuance
of patents, not for the benefit of an innocent transferee but
in aid and for the benefit of those who by fraud obtained
final receipts and certificates upon their entries?
Summarized, the section provides, in the part just*
referred to, -for the protection of bona Mie purchasers;
in the proviso, for the protection of bona fide entrymen.
Neither fraudulent purchasers nor fraudulent entrymen
are entitled to the benefits of the law.

Mr. F. W. Cleente, with whom Mr. Alender Britton,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was a petition to the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a writ of mandamus commanding the
Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner of the
General Land Office to pass a homestead entry to patent.
A demurrer to the answer was sustained, the defendants
elected to stand on the answer, and a judgment awarding
the writ was entered. The Court of Appeals affirmed the
judgment, 48 App. D. C. 547, and the defendants prosecute this writ of error under § 250, cl. 6, of the Judicial
Code.
The important statute, the construction of which is
drawn in question by the defendants, is a provision in § 7
of the Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1099,
which declares:

PAYNE v. NEWTON.
438.

441

Opinion of the Court.

"That after'the lapse of two years from the date of the
issuance of the receiver's receipt upon the final entry of
any tract-of land under the homestead, timber-culture,
desert-land, or pre-emption laws, or under this act, and
when there shall be no pending contest-or protest-against
the validity of such entry, the entryman shall be entitled
to a patent conveying the land by him entered, and the
same shall be issued to him."
The facts which stand admitted can be shortly stated.
Allen L. Newton, the relator, made a preliminary homestead entry t the local land office of a quarter section of
land. At that time the land was withdrawn for forest
purposes, but with the qualification that prior homestead
settlers who continied in good faith to -maintain their
claims should be permitted to carry themrto entry" and
patent. Newton claimed to be a prior settler and within
the qualification. In due course, after publication of the
regular notice, he submitted. commutation proofs under
the homestead law and paid the purchase price and the
legal fees. The local land officers found the proofs satisfactory, permitted him to make final entry and issued
thereon the usual receiver's receipt. That was on November 21, 1904, and there was no protest, contest or other
proceeding against the entry within two years, nor until
November 27, 1908. On the latter date the Commissioner
of the General Land Office ordered a hearing upon a
charge that Newton had not complied with the law in
point of residence and cultivation; and on March 23, 1912,
the Secretary of the Interior held in that proceeding that
the charge was sustained and ordered the entry canceled.
On May 14, 1918, the Secretary rescinded that order and
directed that the entry be passed to patent under the
statute before quoted. The following month the Secretary
recalled his last action and caused a suit to be brought in
the District Court of the district wherein the land is
situate to cancel the receiver's receipt and quiet the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

in the United States. The bill in that suit charged that
the entry was fraudulehitly procured in that the proofs
submitted by NewtonA in respect of his settlement, residence and cultivation were false; and that charge is'repeated in the answer in the present case. Further proceedings in the suit in the District Court have been
-suspended, it is said, to await the ultimate decision on this
petition.
Both courts below held that, as the final entry was not
questioned by any protest or contest in the land department within two years after the issue of the.receiver's
receipt, the statute-the provision in § 7-terminated the
authority of that department to entertain any proceeding
for the cancelation of the entry and cast upon the Secretary and the Commissioner a plain and unqualified duty to
pass the entry to patent. Vlether thB ruling was right,
or otherwise is the matter we are to consider.
The words of the statute are direct and make it very
plain that if at the expiration of two years from the date
of the receiver's receipt on final entry there is "no pending
contest or protest" against the entry its validity no longer
may be called in question in the-land department-that is to
say, "the entryman shall be entitled to a patent
.
and the same shall be issued to him." The purpose to fix
his right and to command its recognition is obvious. This
court so held in Lane v. Hoglund, 244 U. S.174, where a
writ of mandamus directing the issue of a patent was
awarded. In that case, as in this, there was no contest or
protest within the designated period, and in a proceeding
subsequently initiated the Secretary held that the entry-.
man had not complied with the law in point of residence
and cultivation-in other words, that the proofs by Which
he procured the entry were false--and upon that ground
the cancelation of the entry was directed. Besides, the
entry there bore the same relation to a forest reserve that
the present entry bears. Thus in all that is material the

PAYNE v. NEWTON.
438:

443

Opinion of the Court.

two cases are alike. In the opini'on .inthat case it was
pointed out that the practice of the land department prior
to the statute had been to entertain and act upon belated
suggestions of fraud and noncompliance with law, that
this had resulted in a practical blockade in the issue of
patents and that the purpose of the statute was-to rectify
that situation and prevent its recurrence. The court then
observed, p. 181, "In the exercise of its discretion Congress has said, in substance, by this statute thatior two
years after the entryman submits final proof and obtains
the receiver's receipt the entry may be held open for the
initiation of proceedings to test its validity, but that if
none such -bebegun within that time it shall be passed to
patent as a matter of course."
In the main the land department, as its regulations and
decisions show, has construed and applied the statute as
taking from the land officers all power to entertain proceedings for the cancelation of final entries of -the classes
specified, save where the proceeding is begun within the
two-year period,- and this whether it is initiated by a
government officer or by a private individual, and whether
it is based upon a charge of fraud or upon some other
ground. To illustrate: In the original instructions of
May 8, 1891, 12 L. D. 450, the department took the position that it no longe. could canel such an entry or withhold the patent "on the ground ,of fraud, a failure to
comply with the law, or a prior claim," unless a proceeding
for the purpose was initiated within the period prescribed.
In the c'ase of Jacob A. Harris, 42 L. D. 611, decided
December 13, 1913, the Secretary of the Interior adhered
to that position as grounded upon a "sound construction
of the law," overruled a decision to th contrary made
two years before and rejected a protest presented after the
allotted time which charged that the entrym4n, contrary
to the statements in his proofs, had not complied with the
law in the matter of settlement, residence and cultiv ation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

And in instructions issued. April 25, 1914, 43 L. D. 294,
the Secretary stated that the lapse of. two years after the
'issue of the receiver's receipt "will bar a contest or protest
based upon any charge whatsoever," save where the
proceeding is sustained by some special statutory provision.
The defendants now call that construction in quesion.
But we perceive no reason for rejecting or disturbing it;
On the contrary, we think it is in accord with the natural
import of the words of the statute and gives effect. to the
evident purpose of Congress. That purpose is to require.
that the right to a patent which for two years has been
evidenced by a receiver's receipt, and at the end of that
period stands unchallenged, shall be recognized and given
effect by the issue of the patent without further-waiting or
delay,-and thus to transfer from the land ofiicers to the
regular judicial tribunals the authority to deal with any
subsequent controversy over the validity of the entry, as
would be the case if the patent were issued in the absence
of the statute. See Brown v. Hitchcock, 173 U. S. 473, 477.
Of course, the purpose is not merely to enable the officers
to issue the patent-for which they have other express
authority-but to connand them to issue it in the event
stated,-the words of the statute being "the entryman
shall be entitled to a patent conveying the land by Jim
entered, and the same shall be issued to him."
It is urged that the pendency in the District 'Court of the
suit before mentioned affords a sufficient justification for
withhlding the patent. The courts below held otherwise,
and rightly so, as we think. The statute contemplates
that in the event stated the patent shall not longer be
withheld, but shall be issued promptly to the-lnd that the
entryman shall have the advantages and protection which
go with it. In other words, it is intended that he shall be
clothed with the legal title instead of an equitable title
only, shall have a patent instead of a receiver's receipt, and

el

QUONG HAM WAH CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM.
438.

445

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

shall have the benefit of the presumptions which are available to other patentees when their. rights, are called in
question. But for this the statute would be
without any
real purpose or effect.
Judgment affirmed.

QUONG HAM WAH COMPANY v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF.
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 638.

Argued March 9, 1921.-Decided March 21, 1921.

1. This court is without authority to review and revise the -construction affixed upon a state statute as to a state matter by the court
of last resort of the State.. P448.
P.
2. Where the state court, construing a state statute granting a privilege
to citizens of the State, decided that, taken with Art. IV, § 2, of theConstitution, it must be applied as granting the same privilege to
citizens of other States as well, held, that insistence in this court
that the statute violated that provision of the Constitution by
confining the' privilege to citizens of the State, was frivolous and
would-not support a .writ of error to review the judgment. P. 449.
Writ of error to review 192 Pac. Rep. 1021, dismissed.

THIS was a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of California affirming an award •made by
the State Industrial Accident- Commission under a Workmen's Compensation Law.
Mr. Warren Gregory, with whom Mr. Allen L. Chickering and Mr. Delger Trowbridge were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:.
The judgment of the court below that plaintiff in error,
although a resident of California, could nevertheless

