OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

of a trade-mark. That is the plain meaning of the above
words and the necessary scope of this suit since that is
the scope of the jurisdiction of the Distr'ct Court. A.
Leschen & Sons Rope Co. v. Broderick & Bascom Rope Co.,
201 U. 8. 166, 172.. It seems very plain that the plaintiff
had a cause of action outside the statute, but that would
have to be asserted elsewhere, as the suit was between
citizens of the same State. The statute alone gave the
right to come into this Court of the United. States. Coming in to assert its statutory rights, we will assume in the
plaintiff's favor, that it could recover for unfair competition that was inseparable from the statutory wrong, but
it could not reach back and recover for earlier injuries
to rights derived from a different source.
The plaintiff argues that a notice of March 11, 1914,
calling on the defendants "to discontinue the unfair
competition and infringement on our rights" coupled
with the wilful character of the defendants' wrongdoing
ought to lead to a different result; and the District Judge
seems to have had a similar notion. But that is to forget
the origin and necessary limit of the jurisdiction in this
case.

Decree affirmed.

HOGAN v. O'NEILL, CHIEF OF POLICE OF THE
CITY OF EAST ORANGE, NEW 'JERSEY.
APPEA

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 120. Submitted November 8, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.
1. For the purposes of interstate rendition (Rev. Stats., § 5278), an
indictment which omits otherwise to allege the place of the offense
lays it sufficiently in the demanding State if its caption designates a

HOGAN v. O'NEILL.
52.

Opinion of the Court.

court and county of that State and a law of that State (Mass. Rev.
Laws, c. 218, § 20) makes such designation equivalent to an allegation
that the act was committed within the territorial jurisdiction of
such court. P. 54.
2. Laws of a demanding State affecting the right to rendition are
noticed by federal courts and may be noticed by the Governor of
the State upon whom demand is made. P. 55.
3. In Massachusetts, as at common law, a conspiracy to commit a
crime is itself a criminal offense, although no overt act be done in
pursuance of it. Id.
4. A person duly charged in the demanding State who was present
there when the offense is alleged to have been committed and afterwards departed, although not for the purpose of escaping prosecution, to another State, is a fugitive from justice, under Rev. Stats.,
§ 5278; Constitution, Art. IV, § 2. Id.
5. Whether the. person demanded is in fact a fugitive is for determination by the Governor of the State upon which demand is made,
whose conclusion, evinced by the warrant of arrest, must stand,
in habeas corpus, unless clearly overthrown. P. 56.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Reuben D. Silliman for appellant.

Mr. JoseAh C.. Pelletier for appellee.

Mr. William S.

Kinney was also on the brief.
MR JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a final order of the District
Court discharging a writ of habeas corpus and remanding
appellant to the custody of appellee for rendition to a
representative of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
pursuant to a warrant issued by the Governor of New
Jersey under § 5278, Rev. S tats.

Upon the hearing before the District Court on return

of4the habeas corpvs, it appeared that a demand for ap.
pellant's apprehension and extradition to Massaci tsetts

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

had been made by the Governor of that Commonwealth
upon the Governor of New Jrsey, accompanied with a
copy of an indictment found by the grand jury of Suffolk
County, certified as authentic by the Governor of Massachusetts, and an affidavit to the effect that appellant was
in the Commonwealth for some time previous to and at
the time of the commission of the alleged crime, and
afterwards fled therefrom.
The following is a copy of the indictment (signatures
omitted):
"Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Suffolk, ss:
"At the Superior Court Begun and Holden at the City
of Boston, within and for the County of Suffolk, for the
Transaction of Criminal Business, on the First Monday
of February, in the Year of Our Lord One Thousand Nine
Hundred and Nineteen.
"The Jurors for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
on their oath present that Charles K. Hogan and Luther
R. Hanson on the eighteenth day of August in the year
of our Lord one thousand nine hundred and sixteen conspired together to steal the property, moneys, goods and
chattels of the Market Trust Company, a-banking corporation legally established and existing."
It appeared that since the month of May, 1915, appellant had resided continuously at East Orange, New
Jersey; but he admitted that in the summer of 1916-he
said he could not remember the date-he visited Boston
and spent some time in the company of Hanson, the alleged co-conspirator.
It is objected that the indictment does not charge app llant with the commission of a crime in :Massachusetts;
but when it is read in the light of the laws .of that Commonwealth, tae difficulty disappears. Revised Laws of
Massachusetts, c. 218, § 20, reads thus: "The time and
place of the commission of the crime need not be alleged
unless it is an essential element of the crime. The allega-

HOGAN v. O'NEILL.
52.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of time in the caption shall, unless otherwise stated,
be considered as an allegation that the act was committed
before the finding of the indictment, after it became acrime, and within the period of limitations. The name
of the county and court in the caption shall, unless otherwise stated, be considered as an allegation that the act
was committed within the territorial jurisdiction of the
court.. All allegations of the indictment shall, .unless
otherwise stated, be considered to refer to the same time
and place."' Of course the couits of the United States
will take notice of the laws of the demanding State, as
the Governor of New Jersey-was at liberty to do. Roberts
v. Reilly, 116 U. S. 80, 96.
Were there any doubt of the sufficiency of the indictment, as a pleading, it would not be open to inquiry on
habeas corpus. Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S.364, 373.
The suggestion that there is neither allegation nor
proof of an overt act done by appellant in Massachusetts
pursuant to the alleged conspiracy is without weight.
By the law of Massachusetts, as by the common law, a
conspiracy to commit a crime is itself a criminal offense,
although no overt act be done in pursuance of it; such
acts, however important as evidence of conspiracy or as
matters of aggravation, not being of the essence of the
offense, since there is no statute making criminality
dependent upon the commission of an overt act, Commonwealth v. Judd, 2 Massachusetts, 329, 337; Commonwealth
v. Tibbetts, 2 Massachusetts, 536, 538; Commonwealth v.
Warren, 6 Massachusetts, 74; Commonwealth v. Hunt, 4
Metc. 111, 125.
Appellant being charged by authentic indictment with
a criminal offense committed in Massachusetts on or
about August 18, 1916, and having, by his own admission, been perfonally present there and in communication
with the alleged co-conspirator at Or about that time, and
being afterwards found in the State of New Jersey, there

OCTOBER TERM,' 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

is adequate ground for his return as a fugitive from
justice under § 5278, Rev. Stats., enacted to give effect
to Art., IV, §2, of the Constitution. Whether in fact he
was a fugitive from justice was for the determination
of the Governor of New Jersey. The warrant of arrest
issued in compliance with the demand of the Governor
of Massachusetts shows that he found appellant to be a
fugitive; and this conclusion must stand unless clearly
overthrown, which appellan't has not succeeded in doing.
To be regarded as a fugitive from justice it is not necessary
that one shall have left the State in which the crime is
alleged to have been committed for the very purpose of
avoiding prosecution, but simply that, having committed
there an act which by the law of the State constitutes a
crime, he afterwards has departed from its jurisdiction
and when sought to be prosecuted is found within the
territory of another State. Roberts v. Reilly, 116 U. S.
80, 95-97; Munsey v. Clough, 196 U. S. 364, 372-375;
Appleyard-v. Massachusetts, 203.U. S. 222, 227, et seq.;
McNichols v. Pease, 207 U. S. 100, 108-109; Biddinger v.
Commissionerof Police, 245 U. S. 128, 133-134.
Fital order affirmed.

PORT OF SEATTLE v. OREGON & WASHINGTON
RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 107.

Argued December 6, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.

1. The navigable waters in Washington, and the lands under them,
passed to the State, upon its creation, in full proprietary ownership,
subject to the federal control over navigation. P. 63.

2. In conveying tide lads, the State is free'to grant them with rights

