OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255. U. S.

EX PARTE RIDDLE, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No.

27,

Original.

Argued February 28, March
March 21, 1921.

1, 1021.-Decided

1. Mandamus does not lie where there was an adequ& - remedy by
writ of error. P. 451.
2. A defendant, convicted of a felony and sentenced in the District
Court, moved during the term to have the record corrected to show
that, by agreement- with the district attorney, he was, tried by
eleven jurors, and to set aside the judgment for that reason, but
the court held the record sufficient, rejected evidence offered to the
contrary, and denied both motions. Held, that the decisions could
have been reviewed upon a bill of' exceptions by writ of error. Id.
Rule discharged; petition denied.

PETITION for a mandamus to require a district judge tu
correct the record in a criminal case.
The facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John London and Mr. Benjamin Carter for petitioner.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Erle Pettus, with whom
Mr. W. C. Herron was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.
The petitioner was indicted for a violation of § 215 of the
Criminal Code of the United States by a use of the mails in
furtherance of a scheme to defraud. This is a felony,
§ 335, and therefore, we assume, must be tried by a jury of
twelve. The petitioner was tried, convicted and sentenced, the record stating that "to try this cause come a
jury of good and lawful men duly impaneled, sworn and

EX PARTE RIDDLE.
450.

Opinion of the Coui

charged a true verdict to render according to the law and
the evidence." During the term the petitioner filed a
motion setting forth that as the result of an agreement
between himself and the District Attorney 'the case was
tried before a jury of eleven, and asking to have the record
corrected to show the fact. There was also another motion
to set aside the judgment on this ground. The record recites that after hearing the evidence and argument the
Court being of opinion that the recoi'd is as it should be,
and does not need amendment, denies the motion, and
similarly denies the motion to set aside the judgment.
The record discloses exceptions to both orders but sets
forth no grounds. No exception to the jury seems to have
been taken nor does the fact alleged or the exclusion of any
evidence competc at to prove it appear of record in any
form.
" The petitioner now comes here asking for a mandamus
to correct the judge's conclusion and setting forth evidence
offered in support of his motion that was rejected and that
he says should have been received. He might have saved
the point by an exception at the trial or by a bill of exceptions to the denial of his subsequent motion, setting forth"
whatever facts or offers of proof were material, and then
have brouglW a writ of error. Nalle y. Oyster,. 230 U. S.
165, 177. In such cases mandamus does not 'lie. Ordinarily, at least, it is not to be used when another statutory
ction below,
method has been provided for reviewing the r.
or to reverse a decision of record. Ex parte Morgan, 114
U. S. 174; Ex parte Park Square Automobile Station, 244
U. S. 412, 414. In this case the facts were more or less
clearly admitted at the argument but the record does not
establish them and the extent of agreement or dispute
with regard to them does not change the remedy to be
sought.
•Rule to show cause discharge:.
'Writ denied.
-

