OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

warranted in treating the making of oil and fertilizer
from herring as a different class of subjects from the making of the same from salmon offal. The provisions against
taxing in excess of one per centum of the assessed valuation
of property does not apply to a license tax like this. This
is not a property tax. Alaska Pacific Fisheriesv. Alaska,
236 Fed. Rep. 52, 61. The objection that the plaintiff
in error is doubly taxed, first by the United States and
then by the Territory, is answered by the express authority
to levy additional taxes to which we have referred heretofore. Without going into more detail we are of opinion
that the tax must be sustained.
Judgment affirmed.

& ORCHARDS
STARK BROS. NURSERIES
COMPANY v. STARK ET AL., TRUSTEES, DOING
BUSINESS UNDER THE NAME AND STYLE OF
WILLIAM P. STARK NURSERIES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 171t.

Argued January 21, 1921.-Decided January 31, 1921.

1. The damages recoverable under the Trade-Mark Act for infringement of a registered trade-mark are limited to those inflicted after
the registration, and, if the notice of registration has not been attached to the mark, as prescribed by the act (ยง 28), to those arising after the defendant was notified of infringement. P. 52.
2. Where the action arises wholly under the Trade-M4ark Act, diversity of citizenship being absent, the District Court is without jurisdiction to require an accounting for profits resulting from unfair

competition before the registration, or (semble) before the notice
conditioning liability to damages, ut aupra. Id.
257 Fed. Rep. 9, affirmed.

STARK BROS. CO. v. STARK.
50.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Andrew B. Remick for petitioner.
Mr. Xenophon P. WilfJey for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought September 11, 1916, in the District Court of the United States, by the petitioner, a
Missouri corporation, against citizens of Missouri, for an
infringement of a trade-mark, "Stark Trees," registered
under the Act of Congress of February 20, 1905, c. 592,
33 Stat. 724, and amendments. The District 'Court
found infringement and unfair competition, granted an
injunction, and made a decree for an account of profits
from March 11, 1914, when the infringement began,.
limiting the damages, however, to those suffered after
August- 26, 1916, that being the date when the plaintiff
gave the defendant notice of the registration of the mark.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concurred with the District
Court as to the facts but limited the account as well as
the damages to the date when notice was given of the
registered mark, a few days before the bringing of this
suit. 248 Fed. Rep. 154. 257 Fed. Rep. 9. This limitation is the only question here.
By ยง 28 of the Trade-Mark Act it is made the duty of
the registrant to give notice to the public by attaching
certain specified words or abbreviations to the trademark or to the receptacle wherein the article is enclosed;
"and in any suit for infringement by a party failing so
to give notice of registration no damages shall be recovered,
except on proof that the defendant was duly notified of
infringement, and continued the same after such uotice."
33 Stat. 730. The infringement that is sued for is infringement of a registered trade-mark, not infringement

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

of a trade-mark. That is the plain meaning of the above
words and the necessary scope of this suit since that is
the scope of the jurisdiction of the Distr'ct Court. A.
Leschen & Sons Rope Co. v. Broderick & Bascom Rope Co.,
201 U. 8. 166, 172.. It seems very plain that the plaintiff
had a cause of action outside the statute, but that would
have to be asserted elsewhere, as the suit was between
citizens of the same State. The statute alone gave the
right to come into this Court of the United. States. Coming in to assert its statutory rights, we will assume in the
plaintiff's favor, that it could recover for unfair competition that was inseparable from the statutory wrong, but
it could not reach back and recover for earlier injuries
to rights derived from a different source.
The plaintiff argues that a notice of March 11, 1914,
calling on the defendants "to discontinue the unfair
competition and infringement on our rights" coupled
with the wilful character of the defendants' wrongdoing
ought to lead to a different result; and the District Judge
seems to have had a similar notion. But that is to forget
the origin and necessary limit of the jurisdiction in this
case.

Decree affirmed.

HOGAN v. O'NEILL, CHIEF OF POLICE OF THE
CITY OF EAST ORANGE, NEW 'JERSEY.
APPEA

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 120. Submitted November 8, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.
1. For the purposes of interstate rendition (Rev. Stats., ยง 5278), an
indictment which omits otherwise to allege the place of the offense
lays it sufficiently in the demanding State if its caption designates a

