WEEDS, INC., v. UNITED STATES.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

108.

with directions to set aside the sentence and quash the
indictment, and it is so ordered.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY and MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concur in the result.
MR. JUsTIcE DAY took no part in the consideration
or decision'of this case.

WEEDS, INC., ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 558.

Argued October 19, 20, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

Section 4 of the- Food Control Act is unconstitutional, because of its
uncertainty, not-only in the clause penalizing sales of necessaries
at "unjust or unreasonable rates or charges" (United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., ante, 81), but also in the clause penalizing conspiracies
to exact "excessive prices."
Reversed.
PLAINTIFFS

in error were convicted, under ยง4 of the

Food Control Act, of conspiracy to exact excessive prices
for wearing apparel, and, in furtherance of the conk
spiracy, of putting on sale in a store various articles of
clothing at prices varying from 110 to 194 per cent. in
advance of cost; and also of making sales of various
suits of clothes at unreasonable prices.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Mr. Harvey D.
Hinman, Mr. Thomas B. Kattell and Mr. Charles E.
Hughes, Jr., were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The Solicitor General for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
The plaintiffs in error, having been convicted and
sentenced under an indictment containing eight counts,
one of which, the sixth, was eliminated at the trial, prosecute this direct writ of error.. All, the counts charged
violations of the fourth section of the Lever Act, the first,
a conspiracy under the section to exact and to aid and
abet in exacting excessive prices for certain necessaries,
that is, articles of wearing apparel; and each of the others
a specific sale of such an article at an unjust and unreasonable rate or charge.
The indictment was demurred to because of its repugnancy to the Constitution upon these grounds: (1)
Want of power in Congress because of a state of peace;
(2) that the provisions in question -were so vague and
wanting in standard of criminality as to constitute a
mere delegation by Congress - of legislative power in
violation of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, and, furthermore, because, by virtue of the exemptions which they
contained, they denied to defendants the equal protection
of the laws. The demurrer was overruled and, at the
trial which followed, the grounds of demurrer were again
held to be without merit and the questions which it
presented were saved and are pressed in the argument
at bar as grounds for reversal.
As the only difference betweei 'the charges in the
Cohen Grocery Co. Case, ante, 81, and those in this is the
fact that here, in one of the counts, there was a charge of
conspiracy to exact excessive prices, it follows that the
ruling in the Cohen Case is decisive here unless the provision as to conspiracy to exact excessive prices is sufficiently specific to create a standard and to inform the

WEEDS, INC., v. UNITED STATES.
109.

PITNEY and BRANDEIS, JJ., concurring.

accused of the accusation against him, and thus make it
not amenable to the ruling in the Cohen Case. But, as
we are of the opinion that there is no ground for such
distinction, but, on the contrary, that the charge as to
conspiracy to exact excessive prices is equally as wanting
in standard and equally as vague as the provision as to
unjust and unreasonable rates and charges dealt with in
the Cohen Case, it follows, for reasons stated in that case,
that the judgment in this must be reversed and the case
remanded with directions to set aside the sentence and
quash the indictment.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE

DAY took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE

PITNEY

and

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

concurred in the result, the former delivering the following opinion, in which the latter concurred.
In this case, as in No. 324, United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., ante, 81, while concurring in the judgment
of the court, I am unable to yield, assent to the grounds
upon which it is based.
Most of the counts in the indictment upon which
plaintiffs in error were convicted allege specific violations
of that provision of the Act of October 22, 1919 (c.80,
ยง 2, 41 Stat. 297, 298, amending ยง 4 of the Act of August
10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat. 276, 277), which declares it unlawful "to make any unjust or unreasonable rate or
charge in handling or dealing in or with any necessaries";
the alleged offenses having consisted in the sale of specific
articles of merchandise at excessive prides. Respecting
these, my views are expressed in thq concurring opinion
in the Cohen Grocery Co. Case.

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
PiTnEy-and BRANDEis, JJ., concurring.

255 U. S.

The remaining count alleges a conspiracy to exact,
and to aid and, abet in exacting, excessive prices for
certain specified necessaries. I see no unconstitutional
lack of definiteness in the prohibition of a conspiracy to
exact excessive prices for necessaries. In the absence of
a statutory definition -of, or method of determining,
standard prices, with which to compare the prices alleged
to be excessive, the natural standard, according to which
this provision of the act ought to be interpreted, is that
adopted in the ordinary transactions of men, and adhered
to by the common law time out of mind-the standard
of fair market value: the price prevailing under current
conditions of supply and demand, uninfluenced by manipulation. So construed, I regard this provision as clearly
constitutional, and need only refer to Nash v. United
States, 229) U. S. 373, 377. International Harvester Co.
v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216, 221-223, is distinguishable.
In that cEse it was conceded, arguendo, that a standard
fixed by imarket value under fair competition and normal
market conditions was admissible; and the statute Was
denounced only because in truth it did not apply this
standard, but called for an estimate of what prices would
have been under non-existent and imaginary conditions.
To the same effect, Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634,
638.
I assume (as the court has this day held) that the
provision declaring it unlawful "to make any unjust or
unreasonable rate or charge in handling or dealing in or
with any necessaries" is unconstitutional for want of a
definite standard; but this does not carry with it the
provision now in question, since by ยง 22 of the Act of
August 10, 1917, 40 Stat. 283, it is declared that if any
clause, sentence, paragraph, or part of the act be adjudged
to be invalid, this shall not affect or invalidate the remainder, but shall be confined in its operation to the
clause, etc., directly involved-a conclusive declaration

VANDALIA R. R. CO. v. SCHNULL.
109.

Syllabus.

by Congress that the various provisions of this complicated statute shall be regarded as separable.
The record shows, however, that the trial court repeatedly rejected testimony offered by defendants for
the purpose of showing the market value of the goods in
question at times material to the controversy, and that
.exceptions were duly allowed. The effect of the rulings
was to deprive defendants of the benefit of this standard,
by which the jury might have determined whether the
prices defendants agreed to exact for the merchandise
were excessive; and for this reason only I concur in the
reversal of the judgment of conviction as to this count.
As to the other counts, I concur in the reversal upon the
ground that the statute, in declaring it unlawful "to make
any unjust or unreasonable rate or charge in handling or
dealing in or with any necessaries," does not include the
exaction of an excessive price for merchandise sold.

VANDALIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. SCHNULL
ET AL., COMPOSING THE FIRM OF SCHNULL
& COMPANY, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 125.

Argued December 16, 17, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. A railroad rate fixed by state authority violates the Fourteenth
Amendment if it does not yield the carrier a reasonable return upon
the class of traffic to which it applies. P. 119.
2. *Arate which, so tested, is deficient, is not saved by the fact that the
intrastate business as a whole is remunerative. Id. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Norfolk & Western Ry. Co.:v.
West Virginia, 236 U. S. 605.

