224

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

BAEI4DER v. BARNETT, AS SHERIFF
ALAMEDA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

OF

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 614.

Argued January 11, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Criminal Code, § 169, declaring that whoever, without lawful authority, shall have in possession any die in the likeness or similitude
of a die designated. for making genuine coin of the United States
shall be punished, is not intended to make criminal a possession
which is, not conscious and willing. P. 225.
2. A statute defining a crime in general terms should be so construed
as to avoid manifest injustice and possible unconstitutionality. Id.
3.. In appropriate, if not necessary, support of the power to coin and
regulate the value of money (Const. Art. I, § 8, cl. 5), Congress
has power to penalize the conscious and willing possession of dies,
as in. Crim. Code, § 169. P. 226.
4. The clause relating to the punishment of counterfeiting securities
and coin (Const. Art'. I, § 8, cl. 6), is not a limitation upon the power
to protect the coinage. Id.
Affirmed.
-THE-case is stated in

the opinion.

Mr. Levi Cooke, with whom Mr. Albert E. Carter was
on the briefs, for appellant.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. H. S. Ridgely was on the brief- for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the court.

This is an appeal from an order denying a petition for
a writ of habeas corpus. The petitioner was indicted under

BAENDER v. BARNETT.
224.

Opinion of the Court.

§ 169 of the Criminal Code, which declares that "whoever, without lawful authority, shall have in his possession" any die in the likeness or similitude of a die designated for making genuine coin of the United States shall
be punished, etc. The indictment charged' that he "wilfully, knowingly" and without lawful authority had in
his possession certain dies of that description. He entered'
a plea of guilty and was sentenced to pay a fine and suffer
a year's imprisonment. He made an explanatory -statement to the effect that the dies, were in some junk he had
purchased and that he did not know at the time of their
presence nor of their coming into his possession; but, so
far as appears, the statement was made without his being
under oath and With the purpose only of inviting a lenient
sentence.
Origifially the statute contained the qualifying words
"with intent to fraudulently or unlawfully use the same,"
c. 127, § 1, 26 Stat. 742, but they were eliminated when
it was incorporated into the Criminal Code, c. 321, § 169,
35 Stat. 1088, 1120'.
The petitioner makes two contehtions. One is that the
statute is repugnant to the due process of, law clause of
the Fifth Amendment in that it makes criminal a having
in possession which is neither Willing nor conscious. The
District Court in denying the petition held otherwise,
saying that the statute rightly construed means "a willing
and 60nscious possession;" and the court added: "Such
is the possession intended by the indictment, and such is
the possession, the petitioner having pleaded guilty to
the indictment, that he must be held to have .had. Otherwise he was not guilty. He might have pleaded not guilty,
and upon trial shown that he did not know the dies were
in his possession."
We think the court was right. The statute is not intended to include and-make criminal a possession which
is not conscious and willing. While its words'are general,.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

'they are to be taken in a reasonable sense and not in one
which works manifest injustice or infringes constitutional
safeguards. In so holding we but give effect to a cardinal rule of construction recognized in repeated-decisions
of this and other courts. A citation of three will illustrate
our view. In Margate Pier Co. v. Hannam, 3 B. & Ald.
266, 270, Abbott, C. J., quoting from Lord Coke, said:
"Acts of parliament . . . are to be so construed, as
no man that is innocent, or free from injury or wrong, be
by a literal construction punished or endamaged." In
United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486, this court said:
"All laws should receive a sensible construction. General
terms should be so limited in their application as not to
lead to injustice, oppression, or an ab.,rd consequence.
It will always, therefore, be presumed that the legislature
intended exceptions to its language, which would avoid
results of this character. The reason of the law in such
cases should prevail over its letter. The common sense
of man approves the judgment mentioned by Puffendorf,
that the Bolognian law which enacted, 'that whoever
drew blood in the streets should be punished with the
utmost severity,' did not extend to the surgeon who opened
the vein of a person that fell down in the street in a fit.
The same common sense accepts the ruling, cited by
Plowden, that the statute of 1st Edward II, which enacts
that a prisoner who breaks prison shall be guilty of felony,
does not extend to a prisoner who breaks out whe,- the
prison is on fire-'for he is not to be hanged becs
he
would not stay to be burnt. "' And in United St _s v.
Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394, 401, we said: "A statute
must be construed, if fairly possible, so as to avoid not
only the conclusion that it is unconstitutional but also
grave doubts upon that score."
The other contention is that the clause in the Constitution empowering Congress "to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of

BAENDER v. BARNETT.
224.

Opinion of the Court.

the United States," Art. I, § 8, cl. 6, is a limitation as
well as a grant of power, that the act which the statute
denounces is not counterfeiting, and therefore that Congress cannot, provide for its punishment. The contention
must be rejected. It rests on a misconception not only
of that clause but also of the clause investing CongresE
with power "to coin money" and "regulate the valuE
thereof," Art. I, § 8, cl. 5. Both have been considerec
by this court, and the purport of the decisions is (1) thai
Congress not only may coin money, in the literal sense
but also may adopt appropriate measures, including the
imposition of criminal penalties, to maintain the coin iii
its purity and to safeguard the public against spurious,
simulated and debased coin; and (2) that the power of
Congress in that regard is in no wise limited by the clauso
relating to the punishment of counterfeiting. United
States v. Marigold, 9 How. 560, 567-568; Legal Tender
Cases, 12 Wall. 457, 535-536, 544-545. It hardly needs
statement that in the exertion of this power the conscious
and willing possession, without lawful authority, of a die
in the likeness or similitude of one used or designated for
making genuine coin of the United States may be made a
criminal offense. If this be not a necessary it is at least
an appropriate step in effectively suppressing and preventing the making and use of illegitimate coin.
Final order affirmed.

