THE JOHN TWOHY.

.77

Opinion of the Court.*

T. M. DUCHE & SONS, LIMITED, v. AMERICAN

SCHOONER "JOHN TWOHY," HER TACKLE,
&c., CUMMINS ET AL., CLAIMANTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
-THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 84.

Argued November 9, 1920.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. The rule that an appeal in admiralty b' either party opens the case
to both parties for a trial de novo, is established practice in the Third
.Circuit. P. 79.
2. Where a party relies on this rule and on his opponent's appeal, the
court should not deprive him of his right -to be heard by allowing
the appeal to be withdrawn after the..time within which he may
himself appeal has elapsed. P. 80.

256 Fed. Rep. 224, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William J. Conlen for petitioner.

No brief filed for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Consequent on the allowance of a writ of certiorari, the
case is here to review the action of the court below in
granting, in an admiralty case there pending, a motion for,

leave to withdraw an appeal niade by the respondents, who
were there appellants. 256 Fed. Rep. 224. The situation
thus arose: The schooner "John Twohy" was chartered
to carry a cargo of bones from Buenos Aires to Philadelphia. The voyage was made and, following the discharge of the cargo, the charterers, who are the petitioners,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of thi Court.

255 U. S.

libeled the vessel, asserting claims (1) for failure to deliver
part of the cargo which, as evidenced by the in-take
weights recited in the bill of lading, had been loaded on
the vessel at Buenos Aires, and (2) for damage by sea
water to part of the delivered cargo in consequence of
leakage alleged to be due to the unseaworthiness of the
vessel.
Holding that the recital in the bill of lading of the intake weights was but prima facie evidence and that the
proof showed the delivery of all cargo received on board,
the court dismissed the libel as to the first claim. As
to the second, however, it found that the damage from
leakage had resulted from unseaworthiness, and sustained
that claim.
The claimants arone appealed, and, after having twice
obtained a continuance, moved for leave to withdraw.
the appeal. Opposing this motion, the libellants asserted
that, under the practice in admiralty in that circuit, an
appeal opened up the whole case for reconsideration in the
appellate court; that relying upon that practice they had
refrained from themselves taking an appeal from the ruling of the trial court denying their claim for non-delivery
of cargo; that, owing to the continuances allowed the appellants, the time within which the libellants might have
taken an appeal had expired, and if the appellants prevailed in their motion the libellants would be without
means of obtaining a review of the adverse action of the
trial court.
Coming to, consider these contentions, the
court held
them -to be without merit, first, because the libellants,
by themselves taking an appeal, could have required the
appellate court to proceed and decide the same; second,
because, having failed to adopt that course, they could
not complain if the court, in the exercise of its discretion,,
declined to grant them as a legal right that which they
might have made such had they availed themselves of

THE JOHN TWOHY.
77.

Opinion of the Court.

the appropriate procedure; and third, because the court
conceived that the allowance of the withdrawal of the
appeal would be in furtherance of the due administration
of the admiralty in that it would tend to put an end to
-litigation, would afford appellants time within which to
exercise a cooler judgment, would forewarn all persons
to themselves appeal if they desired to insure a review
of unfavorable decisions, and would prevent the hardship which would result from a contrary ruling, as many
would be deterred from appealing from unjust decisions
if, having once embarked on that course, they were
powerless to withdraw. Upon compliance with certain
conditions prescribed by the court, appellants' motion
was therefore granted.
We are unable to give our approval to this result or the
reasons by which it was sustained. As recognized by
the court, the case of The Canadia, 241 Fed. Rep. 233,
had settled in that circuit that in admiralty an appeal
by eitht-r party operated to remove the case to the appellate court for a trial de novo.- The decision was based
solely upon the previous rulings of this court in Irvine v.
The Hesper, 122 U. S. 256, and Reid v. American Express
Co.,. 241 U. S. 544. In Irvine v. The Hesper, Mr. Justice
Blatchford, speaking for the court, said:
"It is well settled, however, that an appeal in admiralty
from the District Court to the Circuit Court vacates
altogether the decree of the District Court, and that the
case is tried . de novo in the Circuit Court. Yeaton v.
United States, 5 Cranch, 281; Anonymous, 1 Gallison, 22;
The Roarer, 1 Blatchford, 1; The Saratoga v. 488 Bales
of Cotton, 1 Woods, 75; The Lucille, 19 Wall. 72; The
Charles Morgan, 115 U. S. 69, 75. We do not think that
the fact that the claimants did not appeal from the decree
of the District Court alters the rule. When the libellants
appealed, they did so in view of the rule, and took the
risk of the result of a trial of the case de novo. The whole

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

case was opened by their appeal, as much as it would have
been if both parties had appealed, or if the appeal had
been taken only by the claimants."
And in the Reid Case this court, although pressed to
repudiate the practice as opposed to the weight of adjudged cases, declined to do so and reaffirmed the ruling
made in Irvine v. The Hesper.
In view, therefore, of the settled law as to the effect of
appeals in admiralty, we are of opinion that the libellants
were justified in regarding ihe appeal taken by the claimants as securing to libellants the right to be heard in the
appellate court without the necessity of perfecting a
cross-appeal in order to preserve that right. To hold, then,
that the appellate court could nevertheless, without
affording the libellants an opportunity to be heard, enter
a decree the plain effect of which was to deny one of the
two claims for which the libel was brought and which,
in view of the settled effect of the appeal, the libellants
could not be presumed to have abandoned, would be to
subject them to a wrong without a remedy, even if it did
not amount to a denial of due process of law.
And this renders it unnecessary to consider the supposed
advantages which would arise from the adopting of a new
rule, since, if the wisdom of so doing be arguendo conceded,
that concession would not justify the misapplication of
the existing rule and the destruction of rights vested in
reliance, not only upon its existence, but upon the discharge of the duty to enforce and apply it.
It follows that the decree of the court below must be
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.

