OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Syllabus.

255 U. S.

Page, 137 U. S. 673, 678-682; United States v. Fletcher,
148 U.-S. 84, 88-91; Ide v. United States, 150 U. S. 517;
Bishop v. United States, 197 U. S. 334, 341-342. But,
as pointed out by the court below, the mere designation
of the place for carrying out the sentence did not involve
the jurisdiction of the court (Schwab v. Berggren, 143
U. S.442, 451; In re Cross, 146 U. S. 271, 277-278), and
if erroneous would only lead to retaining the accused for
a new designation of place of confinement, and we see
no reason under the condition of the record to reverse the
action of the court below on that subject.
What we have said disposes of every material contention in the case, although we have not expressly noticed
the many suggestions based upon the supposed duty on the
trial, before the court-martial, to negative every possible
condition the existence of which might have prevented
that court from trying the case, among which was the
possibility that the officer under trial might have belonged to a command which did not come within the power
to call a court-martial conferred upon the camp commander by General Orders, No. 56, particularly since the
suggestion now made on that subject seems to have been
an afterthought and not to have been called to the attention of the court below in any way.
Apirmed.

BERGER ET AL. v.- UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460.

Argued December 9, 1920.-Decided January 31, 1921.

1. Upon the filing of an affidavit of a party to a case in the District
Court, in conformity with Jud. Code, § 21, averring the affiant's
belief that the judge before whom the case is to be tried has a per-

. BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Argument for the United States.

sonal bias or prejudice against him, and stating facts and reasons,
substantial in character and which, if true, fairly establish a mental
attitude of the judge against the affiant which may prevent impartiality of judgment, it becomes the duty of the judge to retire
from the case. P. 30.
2. The judge may pass upon the sufficiency of the affidavit, but not
.upon the truth or falsity of the facts alleged. Id.
3. The facts may be alleged upon the affiant's information and belief.
P. 34.
4. Held, that the affidavit filed in this case was sufficient.

THlE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Seymour Stedman and Mr. Henry F. Cochems for
Berger et al.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
Unless the affidavit complies with the requirements
of § 21, Jud. Code, it can have no effect, and the judge
against whom. it is directed can properly proceed with
the trial.
Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, and Ex parte American
Steel Barrel Co., 230 U. S. 35, 45, establish that when a
judge holds that the affidavit is not filed in time, or is
insufficient in law, or, for any reason, overrules the
application and continues in the case, his action is subject to review and, if improper, to reversal by an appellate court, but that, unless his acts are so reviewed and
reversed, they are not void. The latter case shows, moreover, very clearly, what must appear before the judge can
be disqualified.
It is believed that the following cases, viz: Henry v.
Speer, 201 Fed. -Rep. 869, 872; Ex parte N. K. Fairbank
Co., 194 Fed. Rep. 978; Ex parte Glasgow, 195 Fed. Rep.
780; and In re Equitable Trust Co., 232 Fed. Rep; 836are all in which the lower federal courts have construed
this section. There is unanimity in holding: (1) That
upon the filing of the affidavit the trial judge must deter-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S

mine whether it is filed in time and whether its statements are sufficient in law to comply with the statute;
(2) that his-action in this regard is judicial and subject
to review upon writ of error or appeal, but not to collateral attack as being void; (3) that § 21 applies only
to those cases inwhich the affiant can state facts which
tend to show personal prejudice or bias; (4) that the
prejudice or bias which will disqualify a judge is prej.udice or bias personal to the litigants and not merely
arising out of a prejudgment of their case. Only one district judge has considered whether .the judge may, under
any circumstances, inquire into the truth or falsity of
the statements made, and he held that, if the act denied
this power under all circumstances, it would be unconstitutional.
A mere charge of bias and prejudice is a mere expression
of an opinion. Bias or prejudice is a state of mind Which
can be proved only by facts and declarations from which
it can be inferred. The act therefore requires that the
facts and the reasons for the litigant's belief shall be
stated. Whether the judge is disqualified depends, then,
not upon the mere fact that prejudice has been charged,
.but upon the facts which it is alleged tend to show such
prejudice. Unless the facts so alleged were intended to
be considered and decided, by some authority, to have
a tendency to prove prejudice, -the requirement that they
should be stated was an idle ceremony. Congress having
excluded - every other judge from doing so, the judge
against whom the charge is made must pass upon the
sufficiency of the affidavit before he retires from the case.
The affiant must state the facts of his own knowledge
and not on information and belief. The statute requires
that the facts shall be stated, so that action may not be
based on mere belief. Obviously, it would be insufficient
to allege that the affiant believes prejudice exists, because
there is a rumor that the judge has done or said such and

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Argument for the United States.

such thing. This would not be a statement of fact except
the bare fact that there is a prevalent rumor, and it is
made no more a fact by adding that affiant believes the
rumor to be lrue. A statement that some unnamed person has told him something about the judge's words or
conduct would be equally insufficient. Nor
would it be
made any -more sufficient by giving the name of his informant. The only fact which he would then state would
be the fact that some third party had made a statement.
It was not contemplated or intended that the act would
have very wide application. It could not have been
intended that the judge should be disqualified upon a
belief on the part of a litigant based upon rumor or mere
idle gossip. Since it is only prejudice. that is personal
to the litigant, and therefore ordinarily grows out of
some previous relations, dealings, or contact with the
judge, the facts may well be supposed to be within the
knowledge of the litigant. This is evidently the view
taken of the statute in Ex parte American Steel Barrel Co.,
supra. If any purpose is to be served by requiring a statement of facts, these must be facts which the litigant is
able to state as of his own knowledge. Many of the facts
upon which a person's civil rights depend are not within
his personal knowledge. He has learned of them through.
others, and he knows witnesses by whose testimony he
can prove them. He has the right to make an issue in
court in order that he may prove the facts and have his
rights determined. No judgment, however, can be predicated on any fact which he states merely on information
and belief unless the fact is admitted by the opposite
party or established by competent testimony. We are
dealing now, however, with a case in which he is required
to state facts, and not merely belief. It is not expected
that any issue will be made or witnesses called to prove
anything stated in the affidavit. The court is expected
to act on the affidavit itself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court. -

-

255 U. S.

Even the facts stated in this affidavit on information
and belief do not tend to show personal prejudice.
In the present case it is not necessary to determine
whether a judge is bound in all circumstances to accept
as true the statement of facts contained in an affidavit
of prejudice, for in this case the judge' apparently overruled the application because of the manifest insufficiency
of the affidavit, without reference to its falsity, known to
the judge and clearly proven by a stenographic report
of his remarks in another 3ase, excerpts from which were
professedly quoted but in fact grossly distorted by the
affidavit. But if the statute means this,. there is a question for serious Consideration vlhether it be not, as held
by Jones, J., in Ex parte N. K. Fairbank Co., 194 Fed.
Rep. 978, unconstitutional. For it is a serious thing to
'say that a judge must practically brand himself in the
records of his own court as unworthy and unfit merely
because some litigant who, it may be, is utterly unscrupulous, has seen fit to file an affidavit falsely charging that.
he has done and said things which he has not, done or
said. To say this would put it in the power of every
conscienceless litigant to insult and humiliate an honorable and high-minded judge-at will, and leave that judge
powerless to protect himself from the disgrace of a record
showing that he is so prejudiced as to be unfit to hold
his office.
MR. JUSTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Section 21 of the Judicial Code provides as follows:
"Whenever a party to any action or proceeding, civil
or criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge
before whom the action or proceeding is to be tried or
heard has a personal bias of prejudice either against him
or in favor of any opposite party to the suit, such judge

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Opinion of the Court.

shall proceed no further therein, but another judge shall
be designated in the manner prescribed in the section last
preceding, or chosen in the manner.prescribed in section
twenty-three, to hear such matter. Every such affidavit
shall state the facts and the reasons for the belief that
such bias or prejudice exists, . , . No party shall be
entitled in any. case to file more than one suich affidavit;
and no' such affidavit shall be filed unless accompanied
by a certificate of counsel of record that such affidavit
and application are made in good faith.. The same proceedings shall be had when the presiding judge shall file
with the clerk of the court a certificate that he deems
himself unable for any reason to preside with absolute
impartiality -in the pending suit or action."
February 2, 1918, there was returned into the District
Court of the United States for the .Northern District of
Illinois,, an indictment against plaintiffs in error (it will
be convenient to refer to themlas defendants), charging
them with , violation of the Act of. Congress of June 15,
1917, known as the EspionageAct, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217.1 In
due time they invoked § 21 by filing an affidavit charging
Judge Landis, who was to preside at the trial, with personal bias and prejudice against them, and moved for
the assignment of another judge to preside at the trial.
The motion was denied and-upon the. trial defendants
were convicted and-each sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment.. From the judgment and sentence-they took
L"Whoever, when the United States is at war, shall willfully make
or convey false reports or false statements with intent to interfere with
the operation or success of the military or naval forces of the United
States or to promote -the success of'its enemies and whoever, when the
United States is at war, shall willfully cause or 'atempt to cause insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny, or refusal of duty, in- the military
'or naval .forces of the United States, or shall willfully obstruct the
recruiting or enlistment service of the United States, shall be
punished ...

. "."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

the ease to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit. That court, reciting that certain questions of law uider § 21 have arisen upon the

affidavit and motion upon which the court is in doubt and
upon which it desires. the advice and instructions of this
court, certifies questions of the sufficiency of the affidavit
and of the duty of the judge thereunder, and also certifies'
the affidavit and other proceedings upon such motion.
The affidavit, omitting formal and unnecessary parts,
is as follows: Petitioners (defendants) represent "that
they jointly and severally verily believe that His Honor
Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis has a personal bias
and prejudice against certain of the defendants, to wit:
Victdr L. Berger, William F. Kruse and Adolph Germer,
defendants in this cause, and impleaded with J. Louis
Engdahl and Irwin St. John Tucker, defendants in this
case.- That the grounds for the petitioners' beliefs are
the following facts: That said Adolph Germer was born
in Prussia, a state or province of Germany; that Victor L.
Berger was born in Rehback, Austria; that William F.
Kruse is of immediate German extraction; that said Judge
Landis is prejudiced and biased against said defendants
because of their'nativity, and in support thereof the defendants allege, that, on information and belief, on or
about the 1st day of November said Judge Landis said
in substance: 'If anybody has said anything worse about
the Germans than I have I would like to know it so I can
use it.' And referring to a German who was charged with
stating that 'Germany had money and plenty of men
and wait pnd-see what she is going to do to the United
States,' Judge Landis said in substance: 'One must have
a very judicial mind, indeed,not be to prejudiced against
the German Ainericans in this country. Their hearts
are reeking with disloyalty. This defendant is the kind
of a man that spreads this kind of propaganda and it has
been spread until it has affected practically all the Ger-

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Opinion of the Court.

mans in this country. This same kind of' excuse of the
defendant offering to protect the German people is the
same kind of excuse offered by the pacifists in this country,
who are against the United States and have the interests
of the enemy at heart by defending that tfing they call
the Kaiser and his darling people. You are the same
kind of a man that comes over to this country from Germiny to get away from the Kaiser and war. You have
become a citizen of this country and lived here as such;
and now when this country is at war with Germany you
seek to undermine the country which gave you protection.
You are of the same mind that practically all the GermanAmericans are in this country, and you call yourselves
German-Americans. Your hearts are reeking with disloyalty. I know a safeblower, he is a friend of mine, who
'is making a good soldier in France. He was a bank robber
for nine years, that was his business in peace time, and
now he is a good soldier, and as between him and-this
defendant, I prefer the safeblower.'
"These defendants, further aver that they have at no
time defended the Kaiser, 'but on the, contrary they have
been opposed to an autocracy in Germany and every
other country; that Victor L. Berger, defendant herein,
editor of the Milwaukee Leader, a' Socialist daily paper;
Alolph Germer, National Secretary of the Socialist party;
William F. Kruse, editor of the Young Socialists Magazine,
-a Socialist publication; and J. Louis Engdahl disapproved
the entrance of the United States into this war.
"Your petitioners further aver that the defendants
Tucker and Engdahl were born in the United States and
were not born in enemy countries, and are not immediate
descendants 1of persons born in enemy countries, but
verily believe because they. are impleaded with Berger,
Kruse and Germer'that they as well as Befger, Germer
and Kruse Can not receive a fair and impartial trial, and
that the prejudice of said Judge Landis against said

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 TT. S.

Berger, Germer and Kruse would prejudice the defense
of said defendants Tucker and Engdahl impleaded in this
case."
The affidavit was accompanied by the certificate of
Seymour Stedman, attorney for defendants, that the
affidavit and application were made in good faith.
The questions certified are as follows:
(1) Is the aforesaid affidavit of prejudice sufficient to
invoke the operation of the act which provides for the
filing of affidavit of prejudice of a judge?
(2) Did said Judge Landis have the lawful right to pass
upon the sufficiency of the said affidavit of his prejudice, or
upon any question arising out of the filing of said affidavit?
(3) Upon the filing of the said affidavit of prejudice
of said Judge Landis, did the said Judge have lawful
right and power to preside as judge on the trial of plaintiffs in error upon said indictment?
The basis of the questions is § 21, and the primary
question under it is the duty and power of the judge,whether the filing of an affidavit of personal bias or prejudice compels his retirement from the case or whether
he can exercise a judgment upon the facts affirmed and
determine his qualification against them and the belief
based upon them?
These alternatives present the contentions in the case.
Defendants contend for the first; the United States contends for the second. The.assertion of defendants is that
the mandate of the section is not subject to the discretion
or judgment of the judge. The assertion Of the United
States is that the motion and its supporting affidavit, like
other motions and their supporting evidence, are submitted for decision and the exercise of the judicial judgment upon them. In other words, the action of the affidavit is not "automatic," to quote the Solicitor General,
but depends upon the substance and merit of its reasons
and the truth of its facts, and upon both the judge has

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22

Opinion of thc Court.

jurisdiction to pass. The issue is, therefore, precise, and
while not in broad compass is practically of first impression
as now presented.
In Glasgow v. Moyer, 225 U. S. 420, the section was
referred to but not passed upon. In Ex parte American
Steel Barrel Co., 230 U. S. 35, the phase of, the section
presented here was not presented. There proceedings in
bankruptcy had progressed to a decree of adjudication,
and the judge who had condu.ted them was charged by
certain creditors with bias and. prejudice based on his
rulings in the case. Such use of § 21 was disapproved.
"It was never intended," it was said,. "to enable a discontented litigant to oust a judge b'ecause of adverse
rulings made, for such rulings are reviewable otherwise,
but to prevent his future action in the pending cause2'
As peitinent to the comment and to the meaning of § 21,
we may say, that Judge Chatfield, against whom the affidavit was directed, said that he felt that the intention of
§ 21 was "to cause a transfer of the case, without reference to the merits of the charge of bias," and -he did so
immediately, in order, as he said, "that the application
of the creditors" might "be considered as speedily as
possible .by such Judge as" might "be designated."
Another judge was designated and to restrain action by
the latter and vacate the orders that he had made, and
to command Judge Chatfield to resume jurisdiction,
mandamus was sought. It was denied. The case es• tablishes that the bias or prejudice which can be.urged
against a judge must be based upon something other than
rulings in the'case.
The cases at circuit in which § 21 was considered have
not much guidance. They, however, deserve attention.
Ex parte N. K. Fairbank Co., i94 Fed. Rep. 978, may be
considered as expressing power in the presiding judge
to pass upon the sufficiency of the facts affirmed. In Ex
parte Glasgow, 195 Fed. Rep. 780, the question came up

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

upon an application for a writ of habeas corpus and it
Eppeared that the affidavit of bias was not filed until after
trial of the case and when the court was about to pass
upon a motion in arrest of judgment and new trial. It
was held that § 21 was not applicable at such stage of
the proceedings. Henry v. Speer, 201 Fed. Rep. 869, was
a petition for mandamus to require an affidavit of bias
against District Judge Speer to be certified to the senior
circuit judge that the latter might determine its sufficiency,
and to restrain Judge Speer from exercising jurisdiction
of the case. The writ was refused on the ground that the
affidavit did not conform to § 21 in that it omitted to
charge "personal" bias, a charge of such bias, it was held,
being a necessary condition. The court, (Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit), by Judge Meek, said,
"Upon the making and filing by a party of an affidavit
under the provisions of section 21, of necessity there is
imposed upon the judge the duty of examining the affidavit
to determine whether or not it is the affidavit specified
and required by the statute and to determine its legal
sufficiency, If he finds it to be legally sufficient then he
has no other or further duty to perform than that prescribed in section 20 of the Judicial Code. He is relieved
from the delicate and trying duty of deciding upon the
question of his own disqualification." This comment
sustains defendants' view of § 21 and marks a distinction
between determining the legal sufficiency of the affidavit
and passing upon the truth of its statements, a distinction
to which we shall presently advert.
The cases (one being excepted) to the extent they go,
militate against the contention of the Government and
they have confirmation in the words of the section. Their
declaration is that "whenever a party to any action or
proceeding, civil or criminal, shall make and file an affidavit that the judge before whom the action or proceeding is to be tried or heard has a-personal bias or prej-

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Opinion of the Court.

udice either against him or in favor, of any opposite
party to the suit, such judge shall proceed no further
therein, but another judge shall be designated
to hear such matter." There is no ambiguity in the declaration and seemingly nothing upon which construction
can be exerted-nothing to qualify or temper its words
or effect. It is clear in its permission and direction. It
permits an affidavit of personal bias or prejudice to be
filed and upon its filing, if it be accompanied by certificate
of counsel, directs an immediate cessation of action by
the judge whose bias or prejudice is averred, and in his
stead, the designation of another judge.. And there is
purpose in the conjunction; its elements are complements
of each other. The exclusion of one judge is emphasized
by the requirement of the designation of another.
But it is said that there is modification of the absolutism
of the quoted declaration in the succeeding provision that
the "affidavit shall state the facts and the reasons for
the belief" of the existence of the bias or prejudice. It
is urged that the purpose of the requirement is to'submit
the reality and sufficiency of the facts to the judgment
of the judge and their support of the averment or belief
of'the affiant. It is in effect urged that the requirement
can have no other purpose, that it is idle else, giving an
automatism to the affidavit Which overrides everything.
But this is a misunderstanding of the requirement. It
has other and less extensive use as pointed out by Judge
Meek in Henry v. Speer, supra. It is a precaution against
abuse, removes the averments and belief from the irresponsibility of unsupported opinion, and adds to the
certificate of counsel the supplementary aid of the penalties attached to perjury. Nor do we think that this view
gives room for frivolous affidavits. Of course the reasons
and facts for the belief the litigant entertains are an
essential part of the affidavit, nd must give fair support
to the charge of a bent of mind that may prevent or im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

pede impartiality of judgment. The affidavit of defendants has that character. The facts and reasons it states
are not frivolous or fanciful but substantial and formidable
and they have relation to the attitude of Judge Landis'
mind toward defendants.
It is, however, said, that the assertion and the facts
are stated on information and belief and that hence the
affidavit is wholly insufficient, § 21 requiring facts to be
stated "and not merely belief." The contention is that
"the court is expected to act on the affidavit itself"
and that, therefore "the act of Congress requires factsnot opinions, beliefs, rumors, or gossip." Ex parte American Steel Barrel Co., supra, is cited for the .contention.
We do not know what counsel means by "opinions,
beliefs, rumors, or gossip." The belief of a party the
section makes of concern and if opinion be nearer to or
farther from persuasion than belief, both are of influence
and universally regarded as of influence in the affairs of
men and determinative of their conduct, and it is not
strange that § 21 should so regard them.
We may concede that § 21 is not fulfilled by the assertion of "rumors or gossip" but such disparagement cannot be applied to the affidavit in this case. Its statement
has definite time and place and-character, and the value
of averments on information and belief in the procedure
of the law is recognized. To refuse their application t6
§ 21 would be arbitrary and make its remedy unavailable
in many, if not in most, cases. The section permits only
the affidavit of a party,. and Ex parte American Steel
Barrel Co., supra, decides, that it must be based upon,
facts antedating the trial, not those occurring during the
trial. In the present case the information was of a definite incident, and its time and place were given. Besides,
it cannot be the assumption of § 21 that the bias or prejudice of a judge in a particular case would be known by
everybody, and necessarily, therefore, to deny to a party

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

Opinion of the Court.

the use of information received from others is to deny
to him at times the benefit of the section.
We are of opinion, therefore, that an affidavit -upon
information and belief satisfies the section and that upon
its filing, if it show the objectionable inclination or disposition of the judge, which we have said is an essential
condition, it is his duty to. "proceed no further" in the
case. And in this there is no serious detriment to the
administration of justice nor inconvenience worthy of
mentioi, for of what concern is it to a judge to preside
in a particular case; of what concern to other parties to
have him so preside? And any serious delay of trial is
avoided by the requirement that the affidavit must be
filed not less than ten days before the commencement
of the term.-Our interpretation of § 21 has therefore no deterring
consequences, and we cannot relieve from its imperative
conditions upon a dread or prophecy that they may be
abusively used. They can only be so used by making
a false affidavit; and a charge of, and the penalties of,
perjury restrain from that-perjury in him who makes
the affidavit, connivance therein of counsel thereby subjecting him to disbarment. And upon what inducement
and for what achievement? No other than trying the
case by one judge rather than another, neither party nor
counsel having voice or influence in the designation of
that other; and the section in its care permits but "one
such affidavit."
But if we concede, out of deference to judgments that
we respect, a foundation for the dread, a possibility to
the prophecy, we must conclude Congress was aware of
them and considered that there were countervailing benefits. At any rate we can only deal with the act as it is
expressed and enforce it according to its expressions.
Nor is it our function to approve or disapprove it; but
we may say that its solicitude is that the tribunals of the

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

country shall not only be impartial in the controversies
submitted to them but shall give assurance that they are
impartial, free, to use the words of the section, from any
"bias or prejudice" that might disturb the normal course
of impartial judgment. And to accomplish this end the
section withdraws from the presiding judge a decision
upon the truth of the matters alleged. Its explicit declaration is that, upon the making and filing of the affidavit,
the judge against whom it is directed "shall proceed no
further therein, but another judge shall be designated in
the manner prescribed in the section last preceding, or
chosen in the manner prescribed in section twenty-three,
to hear such matter." Arid the reason is easy to divine.
To commit to the judge a decision upon the truth of the
facts gives chance for the evil against which the section is
directed. The remedy by appeal is inadequate. It comes
after the trial and, if prejudice exist, it has worked its evil
and a judgment of it in a reviewing tribunal is'precarious.
It goes there fortified by presumptions, and nothing can be
more elusive of estimate or decision than a disposition of
a mind in which there is a personal ingredient.
After overruling the motion of defendants for his displacemefit, Judge Landis permitted to be filed a stenographic report of the incident and language -upon which
the motion was based. We, however, have not discusser'
it because under our interpretation of § 21 it is excluded
from Consideration.
We come then to the questions certified, and to the first
we answer, Yes, that is, that the affidavit of prejudice. is
sufficient to invoke the operation of the act. To the second
we answer that, to the extent we have indicated, Judge
Landis had a lawful right to pass upon the sufficiency of
the affidavit. To the third we answer, No, that is, .that
Judge Landis had no lawful right or power to preside as
judge oi the trial of defendants upon the indictment.
So ordered.

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

DAY and PiTNEY.JJ., dissenting.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

dissenting.

As this case is to settle the practice for this and similar
cases which may arise in the federal courts, and as the
opinion does not consider some aspects of the record, I
venture to state the reasons which impel me to reach a
different conclusion than that announced by the majority.
An examination shows that statutes exist in a number
of States covering the subject under consideration. These
statutes vary in character, and in the requirements :!or
establishing the bias or prejudice of the judge which may
require him to abstain from sitting at the trial of a particular case. In some of them an affidavit of belief of
prejudice, or that a fair trial cannot be had before a
particular judge, is sufficient to disqualify him. Ot.-aer
statutes require supporting affidavits and the certificate
of counsel, and provide for a hearing on the matter of
disqualification. In some States the matter is requiredto be heard before another judge.
The federal statute, now under consideration, had its
origin in an amendment to the Judicial Code, introduced
in the House of Representatives when the adoption of
the Code was under consideration. As adopted in the
House, the affidavit was required to set forth the reasons
for the belief that personal bias or prejudice existed against
the party, or in favor of the opposite party to the suit.
(See Cong. Rec., vol. 46, part 3, p. 2626, e seq.)
When the bill came before the Senate the section was
amended so as to require the facts, and the reasons for
the belief that bias or prejudice existed, to be set forth,
and the affidavit is required to be accompanied by a
certificate of counsel of record that it and the applicetion
are made in good faith. (Sen. Doc., No. 848, 61st Cong.,
3d sess.) It is thus apparent that the section in the.form
in which it finally became part of the Judicial Code intended that the bias or prejudice which should disqualify

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
-DAY

-

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

255 U. S.

a judge should be personal against the objecting party,
and ,that it should be established by an affidavit which
should set forth the reasons and facts upon which the
charge of bias or prejudice was .based. The evident
purpose of this requirement was to require a showing of
such reasois and facts as should prevent impositiofi upon
the court, and establish the propriety of the affidavit of
disqualification. "It is not sufficient," said the late, Mr.
Justice Brewer, when a member of the Sunreme Court of
Kansas, in City of Emporia v. Volmer; 12 Kansas, 627,
"that a primafaciecase only be shown, such a case as would
require the sustaining of a challenge to a juror. It must
be strong enough to overthrow the presumption in favor
of the trial-judge's, integrity, and of the clearness of his
perceptions."
I accept the opinion of the majority that the judge.
under the requirements of this statute maypass upon the
sufficiency of the affidavit, subject to a review of his
decision by an appellate court, and, if it be sufficient to
show personal bias and prejudice, the judge should not
try the case. But I am unable to agree that in cases of
the character now under consideration the statement of
the affidavit, however unfounded, must be accepted by
the judge as a sufficient reason for his disqualification,
leaving the vindication of the integrity and independence
of the judge to the uncertainties and inadequady of a
prosecution for perjury. if it should appear. that the affidavit contains known misstatements.
Notwithstanding the filing of the affidavit purporting
compliance with the sta'tute, the court has a tight to use
all reasonable means to protect itself from imposition.
Davis v. Rivers, 49 Iowa, 435. The personal bias or prejudice of the judge against the defendants in this case
is said to be established by language imputed to the judge
as his utterances concerning the attitude of the German
people during the progress bf the war.

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

DAY and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

The affidavit filed contained a statement of alleged
language of the judge, concerning a German who was.
"charged" with making the statements set forth. Upon
receiving the affidavit the Judge at once inquired of
counsel whether the language ascribed to him was not
in fact uttered in connection with the disposition of the
case of United States against one Weissensel in sentencing
him after conviction-by a jury of a violation of the Espionage Act in the same court. Counsel informed the
Judge that such was the fact. The Judge asked counsel
for Berger whether he had made any effort to ascertain
the accuracy of the statement alleged to have been made
by the court. Counsel replied that he had not. It would
seem incredible that any judge could have made such
statements concerning a defendant not yet tried in his
court, in advance of trial and upon a mere charge of an
offense. Counsel in open court admitted that the offend
ing language was used in passing sentence after convittoun
in Weissensel's case.
Moreover, upon the affidavit being filed, and after this
admission of counsel, the District Attorney offered in
evidence a transcript of what took place and what was
in fact said upon the sentencing of Weissensel. The Judge
permitted this stenographic report, sworn to by an
experienced stenographer, who made it, to be a true and
correct report of the statements made and the proceedings had, to be put into the record, saying that the truth
should be shown of record in connection with the falsity,
although he was of opinion that the facts stated in the affidavit failed to establish bias or prejudice against the defendants which would disqualify him from sitting at the trial.
This stenographic report, sent up with the certificate
and made part of it, and which there is no reason to believe
fails to state accurately what took place, is in marked
contrast with statements of the affidavit which the defendants made when seeking the disqualification of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
DAY and PiTNEY, JJ., dissenting.

255 U. S.

Judge. It shows, as we have already stated, that the
utterances of the Judge were after conviction of Weissensel, and were made when he was passing sentence.. It
shows that the statement of the Judge concerning German-Americans was quite different from that stated in
the affidavit, and referred to the type of man who had
been convicted and- was before him for sentence. The
Judge in'speaking of the convicted defendant said that
he was of the type of man who branded almost the whole
German-American population, and that one GermanAmerican, such as the defendant, talking such stuff did
more damage. to his people than thousands of them could
overcome by being good and loyal citizens; and that he,
the defendant, was an illustration of the occasional A~nerican of German birth whose conduct had done so much to
damn the whole ten million in America. While this
language might have been more temperate, there does
not appear to be in it anything fairly establishing thatthe Judge directed his observations at the German people
in,:general, but rather that his remarks were aimed at
one convicted as was the defendant, of violation of law.
As I understand the opinion of the court, notWithstanding the admissions of counsel, and the sworn stenographic
report bf what took place, the affidavit must be accepted,
and, if it discloses matters, which if true, would tend to
establish bias and prejudice, the same must be given
effect and the judge be disqualified. It does not seem
to me that this conclusion comports with the requirements
of the statute that reasons and facts must be set forth
for the consideration of the judge. It places the federal
courts at the mercy of defendants who ate willing to make
affidavits as to what took place at previous trials in the
court, which-the knowledge of the judge, and the uncontradicted testimony of an official, report may slow to be
untrue, and in many districts . may greatly retard the
trial of criminal causes.

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

DAY

and Pimnr, JJ., dissenting.

While, as I have said, in sentencing Weissensel the
Judge might have been more temperate in his observations
I am unable to find that the statements of the affidavit,
when read in connection with the admissions'of counsel
and the established facts as to *hat took place as gathered
from the stenographic report, showed such evidence of
personal bias or prejudice against the defendants as required the Judge upon the mere filing of this affidavit to
permit its misleading statements to be placed of -record,
and to proceed no further with the case.
It does not appear that the trial judge had any acquaintance with any of the defendants, only one of whom
was of German birth, or that he had any such- bias or
prejudice against any of them as would prevent him from
fairly and impartially conducting the trial. To permit
an ex parte affidavit to become in effect a final adjudication
of the disqualification of a judge when facts are shown,
such as are here established, seems to me to be fraught
with much danger to the independent discharge of duties
by federal judges, and to open a door to the abus6 bf the
privilege which is intended to be conferred-by the statute
in question.
In mY judgment the questions propounded, in the light
of the disclosures of this record, should be answered as to
the first: That the affidavit of prejudice, when read ifi
the light of the other disclosures in the record, was insufficient to meet the requirements of the act. Asto the second:
That while the judge might have called upon another
judge to pass upon the sufficiency of the affidavit, he had
jurisdiction to pass upon it himself if he saw fit to do.
so. As to the third: That the mere filing of the affidavit did not require the judge to proceed no further with,
the trial of the defendants upon the accusation against
them.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

concurs in this dissent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

Mi. JUsTIcE MCREYNOLDS, dissenting.
- Lam unable to follow the reasoning of the opinion approved by the majority or to feel fairly certain of its scope
a-nd c6nsequence. If an admitted anarchist charged with
murder should affirm An existing prejudice against himself and specify that the judge had made certain depreciatory remarks concerning all anarchists, what would
be the result? Suppose official stenographic notes or
other clear evidence should demonstrate the falsity of an
affidavit, would it be necessary for the judge to retire?
And What sh6uld be done if dreams or visions were the
basis of an alleged belief?
The conclusion announced gives effect to the statute
which seems unwarranted by its terms and beyond the
probable intent of. Congress. Bias and prejudice are
synonymous words and denote "an opinion or leaning
adverse to anything without just grounds or before sufficient knowledge "-a state of mind. The statute relates
only to adverse opinion or leaning towards an individual
and has no application to the appraisement of a class,
e. g., revolutionists, assassins, traitors.
To claim personal bias without more is insufficient;
"the facts and the reasons for the belief that such bias
or prejudice exists" must be set out, and plainly, I think,
this must be done in order that the judge or any. reviewing
tribunal may determine whether they suffice to support
honest belief in the disqualifying state of mind.
Defendants' affidavit discloses no adequate ground
for believing that personal feeling existed against any
one of them. The indicated prejudice was towards certain malevolents from Germany, a country then engaged
in hunnish warfare and notoriously encouraged by many
of its natives who, unhappily, had obtained citizenship
-here. The words attributed to the judge (I do not credit
the affidavit's accuracy) may be fairly construed as show-

BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
22.

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

ing only deep detestation for all persons of German extraction who were at that time wickedly abusing privileges
granted by our indulgent laws.
Of course, no judge should preside if he entertains
actual personal prejudice towards any party and to this
obvious disqualification Congress added honestly. entertained belief of such prejudice when based upon fairly
adequate facts and circumstances. Intense dislike of
a class does not render the judge incapable of administering complete justice to one of its members. A public
officer who entertained no aversion towards disloyal
German immigrants during the late war was simply unfit
for his place. And while "An overspeaking judge is no
well tuned cymbal" neither is an amorphous dummy
unspotted by human emotions a becoming receptacle
for judicial power. It was not the purpose of Congress to
empower an unscrupulous defendant seeking escape from
merited punishment to remove a judge solely because
he had emphatically colidemned domestic enemies in
time of national danger. The personal concern of the
judge in matters of this kind is indeed small, but the concern of the public is very great.
In my view ,the trial judge committed no error when
he considered the affidavit, held it insufficient, and refused to retire.

