OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

were deemed parties with the right to intervene.
Its only
purpose was to secure sale and transfer of such right and
title as the city held. Rights of third parties were not
subject to adjudication therein. High on Receivers,
4th ed., ยง 199a. The subsequent action by the state
court did not interfere with anything done by the federal
court-Dupasseur v. Rochereau, 21 Wall. 130, 136, 137and the relief now sought by appellant is not necessary
to protect or render effectual any former decree. Julian
v. Central'Trust Co., 193 U. S. 93, and similar cases are
not pertinent. Their purpose was to protect or enforce
some right theretofore duly adjudicated while here the
defendant's claim in' no way conflicts with any right arising under the former adjudication, and nothing is required
in order to render that effectual.
The decree below is
Affirmed.

EDWARD RUTLEDGE TIMBER COMPANY ET
AL. v. 'FARRELL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 172. Argued January 21, 1921.-Decided Febtuary 28, 1921.
1. Under the Act of March 2, 1899, a lieu selection of unsurveyed land
made by the Northern Pacific Railway Company may be designated
"with reasonable certainty" by reference to the nearest public
survey, 7Y2 miles distant. P. 269. See West v. Rutledge Timber Co.,
244 U. C3.90.
2. Where a State's application for a survey under the Act of August 18,
1894, was held excessive and ultimately rejected by the Land Department, and no appeal taken, held that it did not so withdraw the
included land from the public domain as to invalidate arailroad lieu
- selection, made while it was pending. P. 270.
258 Fed. Rep. 161, reversed.

" RUTLEDGE TIMBER CO. v. FARRELL.
268.

Opinion of the Court.

Tins was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversing a decree of the District Court dismissing a bill brought by the present appellee against the
appellants, to charge them as trustees in respect of lands
held under a patent from the Unitkd States. The facts
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Stiles W. Burr, with whom Mr. Charles W. Bunn
and Mr. Charles Donnelly were on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr, S. M. Stockelager, with whom Mr. E. 0. Conner
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JusTcE McRYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Claiming equitable title thereto under the homestead
laws, appellee's predecessor, Delany, instituted this proceeding in the United States District Court for Idaho
to compel the appellants to hold certain lands, patented
to the Railway Company, as trustee for him. The insistence is that patent should not have issued to the Company,
notwithstanding the attempt to make, selection under
the Act of March. 2, 1899, c. 377, 30 Stat. 993, prior to
initiation of any homestead right in the land, 'lxcause (1)
it was then unsurveyed and not designated with reasonable certainty, and (2) it was within a distri,.t survey
of which had been applied'for by the State of Idaiho under
Act of August 18, 1894, c. 301, 28 Stat. 372, 394.
The District Court decided both -points in favor of
appellants and dismissed the bill; the Circuit Court of
Appeals held against them on the first but did nct consider
the second point. 258 Fed. Rep. 161.
The facts pertinent to the first point are substantially
,the same as those presented by the record in West v. Rutledge Timber Co., 244 U. S.90, except that here the land

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1920..
Opinion of the Court.,

"

255 U. S.

was 7Y2 miles from any known survey while there the
distance was 3Y/2 miles. The Land Department found
the description sufficient for reasonable certainty and
we see no adequate ground for disregarding that conclusion.

As -the district designated by Idaho for survey contained very much more land than the State was entitled
to select, the Land Department refused to consider the
application. No appeal was taken. Upon an analysis of
pertinent statutes, opinions of the Land Department
and of this court, the District Court held that the mere
filing of application for survey did not so far withdraw

the land from the public domain as to make the Railway's
selection wholly ineffective; and further, that if valid
for any purpose, the application merely gave an option
to select, never exercised in respect of the land now in
dispute. We agree with the conclusion reached; and in
view of the careful supporting opinion further discussion
seems unnecessary.

The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
reversed and the decree of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.

