QUONG HAM WAH CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM.
438.

445

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

shall have the benefit of the presumptions which are available to other patentees when their. rights, are called in
question. But for this the statute would be
without any
real purpose or effect.
Judgment affirmed.

QUONG HAM WAH COMPANY v. INDUSTRIAL
ACCIDENT COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF.
CALIFORNIA ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 638.

Argued March 9, 1921.-Decided March 21, 1921.

1. This court is without authority to review and revise the -construction affixed upon a state statute as to a state matter by the court
of last resort of the State.. P448.
P.
2. Where the state court, construing a state statute granting a privilege
to citizens of the State, decided that, taken with Art. IV, § 2, of theConstitution, it must be applied as granting the same privilege to
citizens of other States as well, held, that insistence in this court
that the statute violated that provision of the Constitution by
confining the' privilege to citizens of the State, was frivolous and
would-not support a .writ of error to review the judgment. P. 449.
Writ of error to review 192 Pac. Rep. 1021, dismissed.

THIS was a writ of error to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of California affirming an award •made by
the State Industrial Accident- Commission under a Workmen's Compensation Law.
Mr. Warren Gregory, with whom Mr. Allen L. Chickering and Mr. Delger Trowbridge were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error:.
The judgment of the court below that plaintiff in error,
although a resident of California, could nevertheless

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
)pihion of the Court.

255 U. S.

attack the validity of the statute, is clearly correct. Buchanan v. Warley; 245 U. S. 60; Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S.
175; Crane v. New York, 239 U. S. 195; New York Life
Ins. Co. v. Hardison, 199 Massachusetts, 190.
If the statute gives a right to a resident of California
which is not given to a non-resident of that State, then it is
clearly violative of § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution and
also of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ward v.
Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Cole v. Cunningham, 133 U. S.
107. Distinguishing Chambers v. Baltimore & Ohio'R. R.
Co., 207 U. S. 142.'
Section 58 of the California Workmen's Compensation
Act does not cover the claim of a non-resident.of the
State, because (a) the language of the act plainly liiits it
to injuries suffered by a resident of the State, and (b) the
entire act has unmistakable evidence that it was never
intended by the legislature that the operation of the law,
should be extended to non-residents.
Although the provisions of the Constitution may; in
certain cases, extend the privileges and immunities of the
citizens of a particular State to the citizens of the several
States, nevertheless such principle. has no application in
the instant case, because there is thereby extended a
burden as well as a privilege or immunity.
A discrimination between residents and non-residents
violates § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution with the same
effect as if the discrimination were between citizens of
the several States. Blake v. MeClung, 172 U. S. 239;
Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; La Tourette v. McMaster,
248 U. S. 465.
Mr. Warren H. Pillsbury for defendants in error.
MRcourt.

CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

The Quong Ham Wah Company is engaged in the
business of supplying to canneries in California and else-

-

QUONG HAM WAH CO. v. INDUSTRIAL COMM. 447
445.

Opinion of the Court.

where the labor required by.them to carry on their canning
operations. The Company in 1918 hired in the city of San
Francisco one Owe Ming, a resident of California, under. an
agreement that he was to work as its employee at-the
cannery of the Alaska Packers Association at Cook's Inlet,
Alaska, during the canning season, and that upon his return to San Francisco he would be paid off by'the Quong
Ham Wah Company and his employment terminated.
While working at the cannery Owe Ming sustained, an
injury resulting in a permanent disability, for which on
returning to San Francisco he petitioned the Industrial
Accident Commission of California for the allowance of
compensation under the Workmen's Compensation Act,
§ 58. of which provides:
"The commission shall have jurisdiction over all controversies arising out of injuries suffered* without the
territorial limits of this state in those cases where the
injured employee is a resident of this state at the time of
the injury and the contract of hire was made in -this state,
and any, such employee or his dependents shall be.entitled
to the compensation or death benefits provided by this
act."
The Alaska Packers Association was joined with the
Quong Ham Wah Conpany as defendant in the pr oceedings before the Commission, which culminated in a joint
and several award against the said defendants. Thereafter the Quong Ham Wah Company filed with the Commission a petition for rehearing, asserting among other
things, that the Commission was without jurisdiction, to
award compensation for injuries occurring outside the.
territorial limits of the State of California, except as provided in § 58 of the Compensation Act, and that that
section was void as repugnant to Article IV, § 2, of the
Constitution of the United States, because it granted to
citizens of California the privilege of recovering for injuries
sustained Outside the State in the course of employments

OCTOBER- TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

contracted for within the State, while at the same time
denying that privilege to citizens of other States. The
rehearing was refused by the Commission.
The Company thereupon applied to the Supreme Court
for a writ of certiorari, which was allowed, and that court,
concluding that § 58 discriminated against non-residents
as alleged and was consequently repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and void, decided that the Commission was without jurisdiction and annulled its award.
Upon a rehearing, however, this view. was retracted and
the court concluded that the effect of the constitutional
provision relied upon was, not to Fender void the provisions
of § 58 for discrimination against non-residents, but to
lead to or cause a cbnstructiii of that section which.would
incJudP citizens of other States and therefore avoid all
questi'on as to the discrimination relied upon. The court
consequently held th.t0 "the statute itself is. valid, and
.may be made to apply uniformly to citizens of California
and the citizens of tnv other states," and, giving effect to
this interpretation, affirmed the actio4of the Commission.
* To reverse the judgment so renderedfoTis writ of error is.
prosecuted. All the assignments and contentions made
rest in their last analysis upon the assumption that, despite the construction of the statute -made by the court
below, it still must be here treated as repugnant to the
Constitution because operating the discrimination originally complained of. "But it is elementary that this court
is without authority to review and revise the construction
affixed to a state statuta as to a state matter by the court
of last resort of the State. Commercial Bank v. Buckingham, 5 How. 317, 342; Johnson v: New York Life.Insurance
Co., 187 U. S. 491, 496; Ross v. Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 162;
Ireland v. Woods, 246 U. S. 323, 330; Stadelman v. Miner,
246.U. S. 544; Erie R. R. Co. v. Hamilton, 248 U. S. 369,
371-372. It is hence obvious that the proposition upon
which alone jurisdiction to entertain the writ can be based

QUONG HAM WAH CO. v, INDUSTRIAL COMM. 449
445.

Opinion of the Court.

is so wanting in foundation as to be frivolous and therefore
to impose upon us.the duty to dismiss the cause for want
of power to entertain it. Farrellv. O'Brien, 199 U. S. 89,
100; Goodrich v. Ferris, 214 U. S. 71, 79; Toop V. Ulysses
Land Co., 237 U. S. 580, 583; Sugarman v. United States,
249 U. S.182, 184; Berkman v. United States, 250 U. S. 114,
118; Piedmont Power & Light Co. v. Town of Graham, 253
U. S. 193.
True it is elaborately argued that the court below erred
in supposing that the statute was susceptible of the construction which it affiked to it and that, instead of adopting that construction, its duty was to hold the statute void
for repugnancy to the Constitution on the grounds which
were urged. But this in a different form of statement but
disputes the correctness of the construction affixed by the
court below to the state statute and assumes that that
construction is here susceptible of being disregarded upon
the theory of the existence of the discrimination contended for when, if the meaning affixed to the statute by
the court below be accepted, every basis for -such contended discrimination disappears. It follows that the
argument but accentuates the frivolous character of the
federal question relied upon.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

