SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. 547
Syllabus.

CITY OF SAN ANTONIO ET AL. v. SAN ANTONIO
PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 263. Argued March 23, 1921.-Decided April 11, 1921.
1. The District Court has jurisdiction of a suit 'by a street railway
company to enjoin a city from requiring it to accept an unremune .ative rate of fare, and has power to determine whether the right to
enforce the rate in question is secured to the city by contract. P. 555.
2. In view of a provision of the Texas constitution (Art. I, ยง 17), that
"no irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of special privileges, or
immunities shall be made, but all privileges and franchises granted
by the legislature, or created under its authority, shall be subject
to the control thereof,"-held, that an ordinance of the city of San
Antonio which extended the rights, privileges and franchises of
certain street railway companies and fixed the rate of fare, should
not be. construed and could not operate as a contract between them
and the city binding them to that rate after it became unremunerative
and in effect confiscatory. P. 555.
3. Held, also, that even if the city gained power to make such contracts through a later amendment of the state constitution, the
existing ordinance was not thereby converted, for the future, intor a
contract. P. 555.
4. A maximum fare limitation in a street railway franchise, granted
by a city which was vested with the'rate regulating power and forbidden to restrict it by. contract, should be taken as in exercise of
the regulating power and not as imposing a unilateral contract or
condition upon the grantee to observe the limitation even though
it become confiscatory, and especially so where the case exhibits
no actual intention of the parties to bind the grantee and not the
city. P. 556.
5. Where a city consented to a consolidation of a gas and electric
with a street railway corporation, upon condition that their existing
obligations should be preserved, and where the obligation of the
street railway to collect no more than a fare fixed by ordinance arose
under and had long been attributed in practice to the city's regulating

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

power, and that power was expressly reserved as to gas and electric-

ity in the ordinance permitting the consolidation, held, that a contnot binding the consolidated company to the fare limitation after
it became confiscatory could not be implied. P. 556.
Affirmed.
Tins was a suit by the appellee to enjoin the appellants
from enforcing an ordinance limiting the fare chargeable
on its street car lines to an amount which had ceased to
yield adequate returns and had become confiscatory.
The court below overruled a motion to dismiss the bill
(257 Fed. Rep. 467), tnd, on final hearing, granted the
relief prayed. The facts are given in the opinion.
Mr. R. J. McMillan, with whom Mr. Claude V. Birkhead was on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. S. J. Brooks, with whom Mr. Howard Templeton
md Mr. Walter P. Napier were on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the

court.
The decree below enjoined the City of San Antonio from
enforcing a five cents fare against the Public Service Company, operating street railway lines in that city, on the
ground that the right to enforce such rate was not secured
to the city by contract and such enforcement was beyond
the power of the city because of the confiscation of the
property of the railway company which would result, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.,
. The consideration we must give the subject will be
clarified by outlining the origin and development of the
controversy.
In March, 1899, the City of San Antonio by ordinance
extended to July 1, 1940, "the rights, privileges and
franchises heretofore granted to and existing ih the San

SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. 549
547.

Opinion of the Court.

Antonio Gas Company, Mutual Electric Light' Company,
San Antonio Street Railway Company aid the San Antonio Edison Company." The ordinance provided, among
other things, that the two companies last named, which
operated street railways in the city, "shall charge five
cents fare for one continuous ride over any one of their
lines, with one transfer to or from either line to the
other."
In April, 1900, all the property of the two railway
companies was sold under a decree of a state court to
the*San Antonio Traction Company, and that company,
with the approval of the city, thereafter controlled and
carried on both lines.
In 1903 the State enacted a half-fare law, making it
.the duty of the Traction Company to carry school children
and students for half fare, and subsequently an ordinance
was passed by the city in furtherance of this law. The
company refusing to carry out this legislation on the
ground that it impaired the obligation of its contract as
to rate of fare resulting from the ordinance of 1899, in
violation of the constitutions of the State and of the
United States, a suit by mandamus to compel it to do
so was begun by an individual, and, from a ruling adverse
to the company's contention, the case was taken to the
Court of Civil Appeals. That court held that it was unnecessary to consider whether the rate requirement was
a contract because, as it was adopted long after the provision of the state constitution, that "no irrevocable or
uncontrollable grant of special privileges or immunities
shall be made, but all privileges and franchises granted
by the legislature, or created under its authority, shall be
subject to the control thereof," it was necessarily to that
extent restricted, and therefore left the State free, within
the limits of the restriction, to exert the authority to
regulate. As a result, the half-fare laiv was.upheld, obviously upon the conclusion that it was within the power

OCTOBER TER

1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

to regulate as restricted by the constitutional provision
(Tex. Civ. App., 81 S. W. Rep. 106).
Because of the federal question the case was brought
to this court, and. the decree was affirmed substantially
on the ground which had controlled the decision below.
In addition, however, the court was careful to point out
that, the state. constitution prohibited a rate regulation
which was confiscatory, but that in view of the absence
of all aveiment that the rate in question was confiscatory,
it: was unnecessary to deal with that subject. San Antonio Traction Co. v. Attgclt, 200 U. S. 304.
Presumably under the power to regulate as thus established; the city thereafter passed, and the Traction
Company carried out, an ordinance imposing the duty
of free transportation of policemen and firemen.
1I. 1912 the state constitution was amended so as to
authorize cities having more than 5,000 inhabitants, by
vote of their electors, to amend their charters or adopt
new ones, subject to the limitation that the charters should
not contain, any provision inconsistent with the constitution or general laws of the State.
In. the meantime the tw7o companies, gas and electric,
dealt. with ip the ordinance of 1899, were consolidated
and became ,the San Antonio Gas and Electric Company, and in 1917 the appellee, the San Antonio Public
Service Company, petitioned the city government to consent to its acquisition of aA the rights and property of
the San Antonio Traction Company and of the San Antonio Gas and Electric Company, thus proposing to bring
under one control the four corporations dealt with in the
ordiance of 1899. The city consented by an ordinance
which expressly subjected the Public Service Company
to all the limitationa4 duties and obligations which rested
upon the Traction Company and the Gas and Electric
Company. The ordinance further provided that:
"In accepting the provisions of this ordinance the

SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. 551
547.

Opinion of the Court.

San Antonio Public Service Company agrees that the
City shall hereafter have the right to pass all ordinances
not in direct conflict with the laws of this State fixing
'and regulating the rates, prices and terms at which gas
and electricity shall be furnished for public and private
purposes to the City and its inhabitants."
This was followed by provisions requiring the keeping
of such accounts by the Public Service Company in its
gas and electric departments as would enable the city to
exercise the power to fix rates as to gas and electricity.
The ordinance having been accepted by the Public Service Company, the consolidation was accomplished.
At and for a long time prior to the consolidation the
penal code of the city contained a provision, accompanied
by a penalty for its violation, forbidding, except during
certain hours of the night, the charging of more than a
five cents fare within the city limits. Shortly after the
approval of the consolidation, another ordinance was
passed forbidding and penalizing any person, firm or corporation, enjoying franchises within the city limits, or
their agents or employees, from charging more than the
rate then charged and collected, without obtaining the
permission of the city. In conformity with this last
mentioned ordinance, the Public Servici Company, in
August, 1918, applied to the city for permission to increase its rate of fare from five to six cents, based upon the
ground that, although the five cents fare was remunerative at the time it was fixed, it had, by the increase in
cost of operation in practically every department, become
wholly insufficient for that purpose and could not be
continued without confiscating the property of the company. After a hearing, the city, by an ordinance reciting
that, as the company was bound by the forty-year franchise granted in 1899 to charge five cents fare, the city
did not feel authorized nor called upon to set it aside, and
furthe more that the hearing had shown no necessity for

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

254 U. S.

the change in rate 'asked, refused the company-s request,
at the same time prohibitiug, under a penalty which was
stated, any person, firm, or corporation operating any
street railway within or partly within the city from charging more than a five cents fare.
Thereupon the company commenced this suit by filing
its bill to enjoin the city from enforcing the five cents fare
ordinance. The bill, after alleging the adequacy of the
rate of five cents when originally fixed in 1899, contained
the amplest averments concerning its present confiscatory character. The prayer was for a temporary injunction restraining'the enforcement of the five cents fare
ordinances and from interfering with the company in
putting in a seven cents fare instead, and from enforcing
the ordinances which forbade a change of fare. It was
prayed that, if the company was not permitted to put in
effect the seven cents fare, the court would itself establish
that rate, or such other as it might find .necessary to enable the company to pay its operating expenses and to
earn a reasonable sum on its investment, and that a permanent injunction securing the results prayed be awarded.
The city movedto dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction because it presented no substantial federal question,
as it showed on its face that the parties were bovnd by
the five cents fare provision of the franchise ordinance
as a contract subject to ,beenforced even though the rate
was confiscatory, and moreover because the bill otherwise
stated no ground for equitable relief. The court overruled
the motion. It reviewed the history of the case and decided that, in view of the controversy as to contract
growing out of the enforcement of the half-fare law terminatld by the ruling of this court in the Aligelt Case, as
well as of all the subsequent dealings between the parties,
the existence of a contract as to the five cents fare was
not established, aid hence, the attempt to enforce it,
because of the confiscation to result, gave a cause of

SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. WS
547.

Opinion of the Court.

action under the Constitution of the United States.
257 Fed. Rep. 467.
The city then answered reiterating the grounds of its
previous challenge to the jurisdiction and asserting that
the franchise ordinance rate was based upon a contract
resulting from that ordinanee and from the action taken
at the time and in furtherance of the consolidation. It
further asserted an estoppel to deny the contract, arising
from various acts of the city and the corporation or its
predecessors from the time of the ordinance in 1899 to the
bringing of the suit in 1918. Moreover, disputing the
confiscatory character of the five cents fare, it-laimed the
right to compel its continued exaction in virtue of its
general governmental authority to regulate the fares of
street railway companies.,
The case was referred to a master to report on the
facts and the law. Before the master, a hearing was had,
followed by an elaborate report on both subjects. As
the action of the court overruling the exception to its
jurisdiction had adversely disposed of the question6f
the existence of the contract concerning the five cents
fare,. the master put that subject out of view and therefore reported only on the facts as to the cont~scatory
character of 'the five cents rate and of the power of the
court, under the assumption that it wAs confiscatory, to
restrain its enforcement.
A few words from the report will suffice to make manifest the conclusion of the master. He said: "The rate
prescribed by the ordinance is insufficient, because of the
changed conditions since the rate was fixed twenty years
ago, to enable the company to earn la fair return; but I
have reached the conclusion that to admit the contention
of the company would be for the court to exercise a power
it does not possess; . . . A rate, reasonable when
fixed, does not become unreasonable, from the judicial
point of view, because of changed conditions."

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Although the Public Service Company excepted to
the conclusion of law thus stated and to some of the
separate conclusions of fact made by the master, no exception whatever to the report was made by the city, and
the case therefore went to the court upon the admitted
confiscatory character of the rate, upon the question of
contract, and upon the power of the court, if no such contract existed, to restrain the confiscation which would
result from giving effect to the rate. Adhering to its
previous ruling, the court declared that it had jurisdiction
to prevent the admitted confiscation which would result
from the five cents rate. Concluding, however, that, as
the court was not a primary rate-making authority, it
would not fix a reasonable rate to replace the five cents
rate, the enforcement of which would be enjoined,, and
expressing the hope that the parties might agree upon
such a rate, it announced that it would postpone shaping
the final decree for that purpose.
Some weeks afterward the final decree was entered.
It enjoined the city from interfering with the complainant in substituting a seven cents fare for the five cents
fare and besides enjoined the city from enforcing the
various ordinances complained of in the bill prohibiting
and puflishing the charging of a higher rate than five
cents. The decree reserved, however, the right to the
-city to ask relief whenever because of a change in conditions the five cents fare should cease to be confiscatory.
In addition, the enfoi ement of the city ordinance imposing the half-fare rate for school children was enjoined,
although the eontinued enforcement of the state half-fare
law, which had been upheld in the Altget Case, was expressly declared not to be restrained. On the direct appeal of the city because of the constitutional question
itnvolved, we are called upon, as at the outset stated,
to determine whether error was committed in the decree
thus rendered.

-SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. 555
547.

Opinion of the Court.

-That in view of the admitted fact of confiscation the
court had power to deal with the subject, we are of opinion is too clear for anything but statement. And we
think it is equally clear that, as the right to regulate gave
no power whatever to violate the Constitution by enforcing a confiscatory rate, a result which could only
be sustained as a consequence of the duty to pay such
rate arising from the obligations of a contract, it follows
that the solitary question to be considered is whether a
contract existed emi)owering the city to enforce the confiscatory rate.
Primarily the answer to that question must depend
upon whether the ordinance of 1899 fixing the five qents
rate was a contract. That it was not and could not be,
we are of opinion is the necessary result of the provision
of ยง 17, Article I, of the state constitution, existing in 1899,
prohibiting any "irrevocable or uncontrollable grant,.f
special privileges," etc., when considered in the light of
the irrevocable and uncontrollable elements which must
necessarily inhere in the ordinance of 1899 to give it the
contract consequence relied upon. Indeed, this result
is persuasively established by the ruling in the Aligelt Can,
to the effect that if the contract right were conceded there
would, in view of the constitutional restriction, be such
an inevitable conflict between that right and-the dominant
power to regulate as to render the contract right ir.operative, and therefore to cause it to perish from the mere
fact of admitting its conflict with the authority to regulate.
But it is urged that, as by the amendment to the stge
constitution of 1912 the city was endowed with authority
broad enough to enable it to contract, in granting a street
railway franchise, concerning the rate of fare to be charged,
disenthralled from the limitation of ยง 17, Article I, of the
state constitution, it follows that the franchise ordinance
must after that date be viewed as such a contract and'
treated accordingly. But as no contract between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

city and the Traction Company made after the constitutional amendment in 1912 concerning the "fare in question is referred to, it is plain that, even if the proposition
as to power of the city after 1912 be, for the sake of the
argument, conceded, it is irrelevant to the case we are
considering.
And this is true also of the suggestion made in argument,
that although no contract was possible under the constitutional restriction which would bind the city not to lower
the rate, nevertheless there was a unilateral contract or
condition resulting from the granting of the franchise
which bound the railway company to the franchise rate,
since again there is not the slightest suggestion of any
attempt on the part of the parties consciously to produce
such a condition. But besides, the error underlying the
propositidn is not far to seek. The duty of an owner of
private property used for the public service to charge only
a reasonable rate and thus respect the authority of government to regulate in the public interest, and of government to regulate by fixing such a reasonable rate as will
safeguard the rights of private ownership, are interdependent and reciprocal. Where, however, the right to
contract exists and the parties, the public on the one hand
and the private on the other, do so contract, the law of the
contract governs both the duty of the private owner and
the governmental power to regulate. Were, therefore, as
in the case supposed in the argument, the regulating
power of government wholly uncontrolled by contract,
it would follow that that power would be required to be
exerted and hence the supposed condition operating upon
the private owner would be nugatory. Such a case really
presents no question of a condition, since it resolves itself
into a mere issue of the exercise by government of its
regulatory power.
Further, however, it is urged that, as at the time of
the consolidation in 1917 the powers of the city were not

SAN ANTONIO v. SAN ANTONIO PUB. SERV. CO. 557
847

Opinion of the Court.

limited by the constitutional provision referred to, the
necessary effect of the obligations which the Public Service Company came under was to convert the five cents
fare ordinance into a contract conferring the right to enforce it even though confiscatory. But that question
rests upon mere implications, as no express provision to
that effect is pointed out. Moreover, its entire want of
merit not only results from that fact but from the unwarranted character of the implications upon which it is
based. They proceed upon assumptions that, because the
city exacted as a condition for consenting to the consohdation, that the existing obligations and duties of the
corporations should be preserved, a contract as to the
five cents fare arose. The error of the proposition in all
its aspects is equally apparent from a broader view, since
from the date of the final decision in the Altgelt Ca8e up
to the time when the contention as to confiscation resulting from the changed conditions arose, the acts and dealings of the parties unmistakably indicated the purpose
to
exert the authority derived from the power to regulate,
to the exclusion of the limitations resulting from the right
of contract which had been unsuccessfully asserted by
the Traction Company in the AltgeU litigation. This
deduction arises not only from the exertion by the city,
after the finality of the Aligelt litigation, of the power to
compel the carrying of policemen and firemen without
charge, but also from the general limitations expressed.
in ordinances making no reference whatever to contracil
rights, and asserting the right of the city to give or not
to give consent to a change of rate.
In fact, the city ordinance expressing the consent to
the consolidation makes this clear, since, having in tho,
second section imposed upon the Public Service Companr
"all the limitations, duties, contracts, forfeitures and
obligations imposed on or required of either of said coinpanies at this time," yet expressly, in the third section, it

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

265 U. S.

stipulated for the right of the city to regulate the charges
,for the gas and electric services, and imposed upon the
Public Service Company the duty of keeping the accounts
as to such services in such a manner as to enable this to be
done. Light is necessarily thrown on the purpose of this
provision by considering that the right of the Public Service Company to assert that the maximum rates fixed by
the ordinance of 1899 in favor of the gas and electric
companies were contracts limiting the power of the city
to regulate, had not been determined adversely to those
companies, as had been done as to the Traction Company
by the Ailgelt Case,-a view the force of which will be
felt by recalling that, by the amendment to the city's
charter which we have stated, the constitutional limitation
which led to the deflection of the contract clause in the
Altgelt Case was no longer applicable.
The bold contrast between the ordinance referred to
and the statement made by the city in the ordinance refusing the increase in rate to meet the confiscation, because
of the assumed restraint put.by an existing contract, tends
to throw abundant light on the situation. The fact is,
that all the contentions of the city as to implication of
contract as to the 1899 rates but illustrate the plainly
erroneous theory upon which the entire argument for the
city proceeds, that is, that limitations by contract upon
the power of government to regulate the rates to be
charged by a public service corporation are to be implied
for the purpose of sustaining the confiscation of private
property. Home Telephone Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U, S.
265, 273, and cases cited; Milivaukee Electric Railway &
Light Ce. v. Wisconsin R. R. Commission, 238 U. S. 174,
180.

Affirmed.

