CASES ADJUDGED
W~ TU

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER, TERM,. 1920.

KAHN ET AL v. ANDERSON, WARDEN OF THE
UNITED STATES PENITENTIARY AT LEAVENWORTH, KANSAS.:
APPEAL

FROM. THE

DISTRICT- COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS..

No. 421. Argued December 7, 8, 1920.-Decided January. 31, 1921,
1. Under the 5th Article of War, which provides that a~court-martial.
shall be composed of not less than five officers and must be composed
of thirteen when so many may be convened without manifstinjury
to the service, the -fixing of the number. within hose limits with
reference to the condition of the service is an act of executive discretion not subject to judicial review. P. 6.:
2. Retired officers and officers of the United States Guards, held' coinpetent under the 4th Article of War to sit on a court-martial as
officers: "in the military- service of the United States," the former
in virtue of their-status as retired officers and because the Act of,
April 23; 1904, authorized their assignment by the Secretary- of
War; the latter by § 2 of the Selective Service Act of May 18, 1917,).
and regulations of the President thereunder. Id.
3. A person held as a niilitary prisoner in punishment for a military
offenseof which he has been convicted, is subject to military law..
and to trial by court-martial for offenses conunittid during such

" .(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellants.

255 U. S.

imprisonment, even if the prior sentence resulted in his discharge
as a soldier. P. 7.
4. This, application of the military power is consistent with.the Fifth
Amendment. P. 8.
5. Nor is the trial of such prisoners by court-martial at variance with
the constitutional guarantees as to jury trial and presentment or
indictment by grand jury. Id.
6. In providing that "no person shall be tried by court-martial for
murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the
States of the Union and the District of Columbia in time of peace,"
the 92nd Article of the Articles of War, (1916), contemplates a
complete peace, officially proclaimed. P. 9.
7. Such a peacd was not brought about by the armistice and the cessation of hostilities in the War with Germany and Austria. Id.

Xffirmed..

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. Isaac B.,Kimbrell was on the brief, for appellants:
Notwithstanding Congress by express constitutional
provision has the power to prescribe rules for the government and regulation of the army, those rules must be
interpretbd consistently with the prpvision that the trial
of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be
by jury, and that in all criminal prosecutions the accused
shall enjoy the right to a trial by jury, and that no person
shall be deprived of life or liberty without due process
of law.,
The provisions of the Constitution concerning jury
trial refer to the right as it was enjoyed by Englishmen
inEngland at common law. The common law knew no
distinction bqtween citizen and soldier. The provision
of the Fifth Amendment permitting the accusation of
persons in the land and naval forces by methods other
.than by presentment or indictment ofC a grand'juy involves a matter of procedure rather than of substantial
right. That provision did not operate to deprive a citizen
conscripted into the army of his right to a trial by a jury

KAHN v. ANDERSON.
1.

Argument for Appellants.

(after having been accused) such as a soldier or citizen
was entitled to at common law.
The express recognition in the first Articles of War
adopted by the Continental Congress of the right of n
soldier charged with a bapital crime, during time of war,
to a trial by jury, and the executive, legislative "and
judicial recognition of that right during all the wars in
which this country was engaged until 1863, was merely
a recognition of the right in that respect enjoyed by
soldiers at common law, and from the rule that the provisions of the Constitution. concerning the right to trisfl
by jury will be interpreted with reference to the commo:3
law and previously existing legislation, in connection
with this practical interpretation by all the departments
of the Government for a long series of. years, it results
that the Constitution itself preserves a soldier's right to
be tried by a jury when charged with a capital crime,
and that Congress, under the guise of making rules for
the government and regulation of. the land- forces, can
never take it away.
The words "but no person shall be tried by courtmartial for murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the States of the Union and the
District of Columbia in time of peace," prohibited courtsmartial from trying. appellants for the reason that on
July 29, 1918, the courts were open in the State and District of Kansas and within the geographical limits of the
States )of the Union and the District of Columbia, and
hence it was a time of peace within the meaning of the
92d Article of War.
The law recognizes a distinction between domestic
and foreign war, and the question as to whether or not
a state or time of war existed, in so far as personal rights
are involved, is to be determined by the records and judges
of the courts of justice and not by the records, officers
or acts of any other department of the Government.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Appellants.

255 U. S

With the known hostility of. the American people'to
any interference by the military with the regular administration of justice in the civil courts, no intention to take
from them the jurisdiction which they had always exercised with respect to soldiers and citizens should be ascribed, to Congress, in the absence of clear and direct
language to that effect; hence, the prohibition denying
jurisdiction to courts-martial .to try soldiers for murder
or rape in time of peace prevents such courts from trying
such pcrsons, except at a time when martial-law is in force
and applicable alike to soldier and citizen.
The -armistice of November .11, 1918, ended the war
as a fact, and also ended the power, existwith
ence Germany
and jurisdiction of a tribunal which was
called into
being only by the actual existence of a state of actual
war. The 92d Article of .War in the nature of things
must be transposed to read, "No person shall be tried
(in time of peace)' by court-martial for murder," etc.
As the trial did not end until two weeks after the war
ended, the sentence could. not be promulgated by a moribund tribunal.
The order detailing the general court-martial shows
that two members of the detail were retired from the
army and therefore not eligible. It also shows that three
members were designated as -United States Guards, but
does not disclose what kind of 'guards, or whether in the
military service of the United States,- and therefore
'the tribunal was not constituted as required by the 4th
Article of War.
The court-martial was not constituted as required
by the 5th Article of War, for the reason that, notwithstanding it was known of all men and is demonstrated
by the records of the War Department that thirteen
members could have been detailed without manifest
injury to.the service, yet only eight were detailed.
Appellants were not in or members of the army of the

KAHN v. ANDERSON.
1.

5

'Opinion of the Court.

United States on July 29, 1918; hence, they could not
be tried for a civil crime by -a couft-martial. Their
original sentences discharged them.

Mr. W. C. Herron, with whom The Solicitor General
was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
The petition for habeas corpus filed by the appellants
on April 14, 1920, to obtain their release from confinement in the United States Disciplinary B.arracks at
Leavenworth, having, on motion of the United States, been
dismissed on the face of the petition and documents
annexed, the appeal which is now before us was prosecuted.
We are therefore only concerned with the issues which
legitimately arise from that situation.
It was charged in the petition that on November 4,
1918, the petitioners were placed on trial before a general
court-martial for violation of the 96th Article of War, in
having conspired to murder a named fellow prisoner, and
of the 92d Article in having committed the murder, and
that at the -time of the alleged commission of the crimes
stated they were undergoing imprisonment in the barracks
in question under sentences which had been imposed upon
'them by courts-martial for military offenses.. It 'was
averred that the legality of the organization of the court
and its jurisdiction were at once challenged, and, on the
challenge being overruled, each of the petitioners was,
on November 25, 1918, found guilty of the murder charged,
and, as the result of the action of the President in mitigating and approving the sentenceg, they were each liable
for a long term of imprisonment.
-The release which was prayed was based upon the following grounds: (1) Alleged illegality in the constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of the court; (2). an assertion that the petitioners did not
possess the military status essential to cause them to be
subject: to' the court's jurisdiction; (3) that their subjection, even if they possessed such military status, to be
tried by -court-martial, deprived them of asserted constitutional rights, and (4) that in no event had the courtmartial power to try them for murder under the conditions
existing at the time of the trial.. We come to consider
whether the court erred in overruling these contentions..
The 5th Article of War exacts that in any event a courtmrrtial: shall be composed of not less. than five officers
and must be composed of thirteen when that number
can be convened without manifest injury to the service.
The court in this case was composed of eight members,
the order certifying that more than that number could
not be convened without manifest injury to the service.
The argument is that because the court was composed of
less than thirteen officers it was unlawfully constituted.
But it has long been settled that the exercise of discretion
as to fixing the number of the court with reference to the
condition of the service, within the mini-um and maxi,mum limits, is executive and not subject to judicial review. Martin v. Mott, 12 Wheat. 19, 34, 35; Bishop v.
United States, 197 U. S. 334, 340. The objection is therefore without merit.
Of the eight members of the court two were described
in the order as retired officers and thre as officers of the
United States Guards. The contention is that, as by
the 4th Article of War one must be an officer in the.military
service of the United States to -be competent to sit on a
court-martial, and as retired officers and. officers of the
United States Guards are not within that requiremeut,
the constitution of the court was void. But both contentions, we are of opinion, are untenable; as to the retired
officers, because it is not open to question, in view of the
ruling in United States v. Tyler, 105 U. S. 244, that such

KAHN v. ANDERSON.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

officers are officers in the military service of the United
States, and because it is equally certain that the order
assigning the retired officers to the court was within the
authority conferred by the Act of April 23, 1904, c. 1485,
33 Stat. 264, which provides that: "The Secretary of
War may assign retired officers of the Army, with their
consent, to active duty . . . upon courts-martial
" As to the United States Guards officers, there can
also be no doubt that the President was fully empowered
by § 2 of the Selective Service Act of May 18, 1917, c.
15, 40 Stat. 77, to exert the power which he did by Special
Regulations, No. 101, organizing the millary force known
as the United States Guards, and that such force, under
the express terms of § 1 of the same act, was a part of the
Army of the United States, and that these officers were
therefore competent to be assigned to court-martial duty.
As we have seen, the. pleadings disclose that the alleged
crimes were charged to have been committed by the
accused while they were confined in a United States military prison undergoing punishment inflicted upon them,
and upon this it is contended that, either by implications
resulting from the length of the sentences previously imposed and which were being suffered, or by assumption
that there was a provision in the sentences to that effect,
it resulted that the accused, by the convictions and sentences, ceased to be soldiers and were no longer subject
to military law. But, as the allegations of the petition
and the contention based upon them concede that the
petitioners were, at the time of the trial and sentence
complained of, military prisoners undergoing punishment
for previous sentences, we are of opinion that, even if
their discharge as soldiers had resulted from the previous
sentences' which they were. serving, it would be here immaterial, since, as they remained military prisoners, they
were for that reason subject to military law and trial by
court-martial for offenses committed during such im-

_OCTOBLER TERM, 1920.
Opir ion of the Court.

255 U. S.

prisonment. Thus, in dealing with that question, in
Carter v. McClaughry, i83 U. S. 365, 383, it was said:,
"The accused was proceeded against as an officer of the
Army, and jurisdiction attached in respect of him as such,
which included not only the power to hear and determine
the case, but the power to execute and enforce the sentence
of the law. Having been sentenced, his status was that
of a military prisoner held by :the authority of the United
States as an offender 'against its laws.
"He was a military prisoner though he had ceased to
be a soldier; and for. offences committed during his confinement he was liable to trial and punishment by court
martial under the rules arid articles of war. Rev. Stat.
§ 1361.".
See in addition, Act of March 4, 1915, c. 143, 38 Stat.
1084; 2d Article of War, par. "e"; 16 Ops. Atty. Gen. 292;
In re Craig, 70 Fed. Rep. 969; Ex parte Wildman, Fed.
Cas. 17,653a.
And, as the authorities just referred to and the principles upon which they rest adequately demonstrate the
unsubstantial character of the contention, that to give
effect to the power thus long established and recognized.
would be repugnant to the Fifth Amendment,. we deem
it unnnecessary to notice the question further.
. Inconnection with this subject we observe that a further
contention, that, conceding the accused to have been
subject to military law, they could not be tried by a military court because Congress was without power to so
provide consistently with the guaranties as to jury trial
and presentment or indictment by grand jury, respectively
secured by Art. I, § 8, [Art. III, § 2,] of the Constitution,
and Art. V, [and Art. VIJ of the Aifiendments,-is also
without foundation, since it directly denies the existence
of a power in Congress exerted from the beginning, and
:disregards the numerous decisions of this .court by which
its exercise has been sustained,-a situation which was so

KAHN v. ANDERSON.
1.

Opinion of the Court.

obvious more than forty years ago as to lead the court to
say in Ex parte Reed, 100 U. S. 13, 21:
"'The constitutionality of the acts of Congress touching
army and- navy courts martial in this country, -if there
couldever have been a doubt about it, is no longer an
open question- in this court. Const., art. 1, sect. 8, *and
amendment 5. In Dynes v. Hoover, (20 How. 65) the
subject was fully considered and their validity affirmed."
This brings us to' the final contention, that because
when the trial occurred it was time of peace no-jurisdiction. existed to try for murder, as Article 92 provided
that"

.

no person shall be tried by court-martial for

murder or rape committed with'n the geographical limits
of the States of the Union and the District of Columbia
in time of peace." That complete peace, in the legal
sense, had not come to pass by.the effect of the Armistice
and the cessation of hostilities, is not disputable. Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 251 U. S. 146. It is therefore difficult to appreciate the reasoning upon which it is
insisted that, although the Government of the United
States was officially at war, nevertheless, so far as the
regulation and control by it of its army is concefned, it,
was at peace. Nor is it any less difficut to understand
why reliance to sustain that proposition is placed on Caldwell v. Parker, 252 TJ. S. 376, since that. case involved no
question' of the want of jurisdiction of a court-martial
over a crime committed by a soldier, but solely whether
the jurisdiction which it was corceded such a court possessed was intended to be exclusive of a concurrent power
in the state court to punish the same act, as the mqre
result, of a declaration of war and without reference to
any interruption, by a condition of war, of the power of
the civil courts to perform their duty; and moreover in
that case the question here raised was expressly reserved
from decision.
Coming now to consider that question in the light (1)

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of the rulings in Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2; Coleman v.
Tennessee, 97 U. S. 509; Ex parte Mason, 105 U. S. 696,
and Caldwell v. Parker,252 U. S. 376; (2) of the differences
between the Articles of 1874 and those of 1916 showing
a purpose to rearrange the jurisdiction of courts-martial;
(3) of the omission of the qualification, "except in time
of war," from the clauses of the latter articles conferring
Jurisdiction as to designated offenses, including those
capital (Articles 92 and 93), and its retention in the articie
dealing with the duty of the military to deliver to the
state authorities (Article 74), and (4) of the placing in
a separate article (Article 92) of the provision conferring
jurisdiction as- to murder and rape and qualifying that
jurisdiction by the words, "in time of peace," not used
in the previous articles, we are of opinion that that qualification signifies peace in the complete sense, officially
declared. The fact that the Articles of 1916 in other
respects make manifest the legislative purpose to give
effect to the previous articles as interpreted by the decided
cases to which we have referred, at once convincingly
suggests that a like reason controlled in adopting the
limitation, "except in time of peace," contained in Article
92. See McElrath v. United States, 102 U. S. 426, 438,
whe.re it was expressly decided that the limitation, "except in time of peace," on the power of the President to
summarily dismiss a military officer, contemplated not
a mere cessation of hostilities, but peace in the complete
sense, officially proclaimed. Indeed, in that case it was
pointed out that this significance of the words had received
the sanction of Congress and had been made the basis
for the adjustment of controversies depending upon the
time when peace was established.
Affirmed.

