HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BLINCOE.

12Q

Statement of the Case.

HARTFORD

LIFE

INSURANCE

BLINCOE, ADMINISTRATRIX

COMPANY v.
OF BARBER.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 161. Argued January 20, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.
1. In determining how far a decision of this court reversing a judgment of a state court binds that court on a second trial, the principle of rcs julicata, that all that might have been decided is presunied to have been decided, is inapplicablc; and only those matters
which were, not, niccly presented and argued here, but actually
considered and (leeiled by this court, are foreclosed. P. 136.
2. Upon examination of the former decision (245 U. S. 146), hcld, that,'
in determining the scope of the Connecticut judgment there given
effect under the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution as
upholding the assessment levied by the Insurance Company, this
court did not decide tlhat such judgnent sanctioned including in
the assessment the amount of a tax which the company thought
was imposed by the law of Missouri. Id.
3. In a suit in a state court against a sister-state insurance company
on a local contract of insurance, where an assessment on the insured
was adjudged void because a few cents had been included in it for a
stpposed local tax, held, that whether such a tax was imposed by
the local law and whether, it not being imposed, the assessment was
void because of such slight excess, were questions of local law upon
which the.state court's decision was conclusive. P. 137.
4. A-state statute allowing damages and attorney's fees.against insurance companies for delay in paying claims, even where there is no
proof of vexatious refusal to pay and even in a case Where delay
seems justified by a company's success in litigation, can not be said
to violate the Fourteenth Amendment. Id.
279 Missouri, 316, affirmed.

THIS was an action to collect life insurance.. The defense was that the policy had been forfeited by noi,
payment of an assessment due and payable under its
terms. The state court held the assessment void because
there was included in it, without warrant, the amount, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

255 U. S.

1.5 cents to cover a tax of 2 per cent. to be paid to the
State as a tax on the amount of the assessment collected.
The decision of this court involves primarily the scope
and effect of its former decision of the case, in 245 U. S.
146.
Mr. F. W. Lehmann, with whom Mr. James C. Jones
and Mr. Geo. F. Haid were on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error:
The decision under review is based wholly upon the
g ound that defendant included in the assessment the
sum of 15 cents to cover a tax of 2 per cent, Which the
State of Missouri was demanding of it (under the provision of an act which was on the statute books of the
State since 1889), and which defendant paid and had been
paying for many years. The decision of the Supreme
Court of Missouri, which held that the tax did not apply
to assessments, was rendered more than six years after
the assessment in question was levied, and that decision
was by a divided court, four to two, so that the question
o f the application of the statute to assessments was not
sufficiently free from doubt to call forth a unanimous
decision from the Supreme Court of that State. Bankers'
Life Co. v. Chorn, 186 S. W. Rep. 681.
The Supreme Court of the State in the- case at bar
based its decision upon what we believe to be a wholly
untenable, non-federal question, which does not sustain
the judgment in this case. Ward v. Love County, 253
U.S.17.
No claim is made that the company was acting in-bad
faith in including the 15 cents in the assessment.
Defendant was justified in assuming that it was liable
for the tax, even if assessments levied by companies
licensed to do business in the State were not so liable.
Rev. Stats. Mo., 1909, §§ 7099, 6954.
The effect of the iiclusion of this tax in the assessment

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BLINCOE.
129.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

was presented to this court by the dtvondant in error
on the former writ of error, and it was then claimed and
urged by the defendant in error that, irrespective of the
other questions involved, the inclusion of the tax rendered
the assessment void and necessitated an affirmance of
the judgment then before the court. To support which
contention: defendant in error gited the authorities which
will be found in the brief of defendant in error on the
former hearing in this court.
The concrete question before this court on the former
writ of error was whether or not the particular assessment
which included the 15 cents tax, was authorized by the
Connecticut decree in the Dresser case. Necessarily
involved in that inquiry was the question whether or
not the 15 cents included therein was payable. This
court answered the inquiry in the affirmative. This
court could not have held that this assessment -w4.
authorized by the Connecticut decree and at the same
time hold that it was void because it included the 15
cents tax.
It is true that the opinion of this court on the former
writ of error does not discuss the question of the inclusion
of the tax, but the question was in the record, was necessarily involved, and was presented to this court. Gould
v. Evansvillk &c. R. R. Co., 91 U. S. 526, 532; United
States Trust Co. v. New Mexico, 183 U. S.535; Chaffin v.
Taylor, 116 U. S. 567; Tyler v. Magwire, 17 Wall. 253,
283; Pitkin v. Shacklett, 117 Missouri,548; Hill v. Draper,
37 S. W. Rep. 574; Castleman v. Buckner, 202 S. W. Rep.
681; Illinois Life Insurance Co. v. Wortham, 119 S. W.
Rep. 802; Clark v. Brown, 119 Fed. Rep. 130. See also
Hastings v. Hennessey, 70 Mo. App. 354; Wellsville Oil
Co. v. Miller, 150 Pac. Rep. 186, 189; s. c. 243 U. S.6;
In re Cook's Estate, 143 Iowa, 733; Perraultv. Emporium
Department Store Co., 83 Washington, 578; Nashville &c.
Ry. Co. v. Banks, 168 Kentucky, 579.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

255 U. S.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri is
violative of the provisions of Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution in that it fails to give full faith and credit to
the decree of the Connecticut court in the Dresser Case,
because: (1) An assessment levied as was call No. 126,
was adjudged to be valid and lawful by the Connecticut
court in the Dresser Case; (2) Under the Dresser decree
it was adjudged that an excess in an assessment, if any,
should not vitiate or invalidate, the assessment, but
should simply render the sficceeding assessment subject
to credit for such excess; and (3) It was held by the Connecticut court in the Dresser Case that the mortuary
fund of the Safety Fund Division was only subject to
and liable for' the payment of certificates matured by the
deaths o the holders thereof in the event that all assessments had been paid by the holders thereof during their
lifetime, and the continuance of said certificates, whereas
the trial court and the Supreme Court of Missouri held
that the certificate in suit is payable out of the mortuary
fLnd, notwithstanding the conceded and admitted fact
that assessment or call- No. 126 levied against the insured
prior to his death was not paid.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri in upholding the action of the trial court in permitting the
recovery of penalty and attorneys' fees upon the facts
in this case, deprives .the defendant of its property without due process of law, in violation of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Rev. Stats. Mo., 1909, § 7068.
The only evidence on this issue offered on the trial
was the fact that p!aintiff in error had not paid the
amount of the certificate, and the fact that its refusal
to. pay was based upon its interpretation of the contract
that the failure of the insured to pay his assessment
rendered his certificate unenforcible.
The company was a trustee. of the fund, Hartford Life
Insurance Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, 671; and it owed a

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BLINCOE.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

idity to the beneficiaries (the members) to protect that
f uid against unjust demands. In 'the -instant case tfe
insured had failed to pay an assessment which under the.
terms of his certificate rendered the same void. Bailey
v.Alabama, 219 U. S. 219, 234.
When the nature of the defense is the only evidence
from which its character as being vexatious or not is to
be inferred; then it is a question of law for the court.
Here is no dispute as to the fact. Cf. Stix v. Travelers
Insurance Co., 175 Mo. App. 180; Non-Royalty Shoe Co.
v. Phanix Assurance Co., 277 Missouri, 399.
Mr. Charles E. Morrow, with whom Mr. Robert Kelley
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

MA. JUsTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is the second writ of error in this case. The
opinion upon the first writ is reported in 245 U. S. 146.
The suit here is, as it was there, upon a certificate of
qualified life insurance, issued to Frank Barber and payable at his. death to his wife, the plaintiff, who has since
died and her administratrix has been substituted as defendant in error.
The defense here is, as it was there, that Barber failed
to pay the mortuary assessment levied January 29, 1910,
known as quarterly call No. 126 and that the failure
voided the policy by its terms.
..
In that case Mrs. Barber recovered judgment, which
we reversed on the ground that in rendering it the state
court disregarded a judgment of a Connecticut court
which had jurisdiction of the subject,-matter and the
parties, including Barber.
Upon the return of the case to the state court a new

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

trial was had that resulted again in a verdict and judg-ment for Mrs. Barber. They were affirmed by the Supreme Court of the 'State. 279 Missouri, 316.
T--that affirmance this writ -of error is directed, and
the question presented is, Did the Supreme Court proceed
ii consonance with. our decision? The extent of our
decigion -is, therefore, necessary to consider and what it
directed.- The determination is in the issue that was
presented and passed upon.
By reference to the report of -the case (245 U. S., 146)
it willbe'seen that the Supreme Court rested the judgment
.reviewed on the invalidity of the-assessment and that
the non-payment of the latter did not, upon two grounds,
work a forfeiture of the insurance: (1) Under the condition of the funds of the company the assessnent was
for a larger amount than was necessary to pay death
losses; (2) The charter of the" company required all its
affairs to be maaaged and controlled by a: board of not
less than seven directors, and that the assessment was
not' levied by the board. These rulings we held to be
"'in the teeth' of the Connecticut adjudication which
held that it was proper-and reasonable for the company
advance in order to enable it
to hold a fund--collected 'in
to pay losses promptly. ' It was hence decided that the
trial court in .rendering judgment against -the Hartford
Company, and the Supreme Court in affirming the judgment, did not give" full faith and credit to the Connecticut
record." The reasons for the conclusion we need not
repeat.
With this ruling the .Supreme Court was confronted
upon its reconsideration of -the case with the freedom of
decision that remained to it, and resolved that we had
left untouched any consideration of the elements constituting the assessinent; .and that it was at liberty to.
decide, and decided, that a tax, asserted by the company
fn have been imposed by the laws of Missouri, had been

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v. BLINCOE.
129.

Opinion of the Court.

unlawfully included in the assessment and that, therefore, the assessment was void and its non-payment did
not work a forfeiture of Barber's insurance. To the
contention of the company that such holding was precluded by our opinion, it was replied that the matter
presented purely a question arising under the laws of
the State and that this court "did not intend by its judgment to adjudicate to the contrary."
The decision of the court that the Hartford Company
was not subject to the tax that it had included in its
assessment was not new. It was a repetition of the ruling
made in Northwestern Masonic Aid Association v. Waddill,
138 Missouri, 628, in 1897, and should have been known
to the Hartford Life Insurance Company at the time it
made the assessment and mortuary call. The ruling has
been again repeated in Young v. Hartford Life Insurance
Co., 277 Missouri, 694, and upon the authority of those
cases the court decided that the tax was not applicable
to companies doing business on the assessment plan and
that on that plan the Hartford Company was doing
business.
The Hartford Company contests the latter ruling and,
as dependent upon it, the other ruling, that is, that the
company was not subject to the tax, and asserts besides
that the effect of the inclusion of the tax in the assessment was presented to this court -on the former writ of
error, and whether it was authorized by the Connecticut
decree, and that the answers were in the affirmative,-in
other words, passed upon the .power to make and the
elements that made the assessment. Counsel say "this
court could not have held that this assessment was authorized by the Connecticut decree and at the same
time hold that it was void because it included the fifteen
cents tax." To sustain this view of the case the opinion
is quoted as follows: "It is obvious on the evidence that
this assessment was levied in the usual way adopted by

.+

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

the company and tacitly sanctioned by the Connecticut
judgment."
Counsel, however, admit that the question of the inclusion of 'the'tax was not discussed, but insist that "the
question was .in the record, was necessarily involved, and
was presented," and invoke the presumption
that
whatever was within the issue was decided.. In other
words, that the case was conclusive not only of .all
that was decided, but of all that might have been
:
decided.
From our statement of the issues it is manifest that
thd quotation from the opinion has other explanation
than counsel's, and we need not dwell upon the presumption invoked or the extent of its application in a proper
case. The question of the effect of- a judgment as a bar
or estoppel against the prosecution of a second action
upon the same claim or demand, or its effect upon a particular issue 'or question in some other case, is not here
involved. The most that can be said -of any question
that was decided is, that it became the law of the case
and as such' binding on the Supreme Court of the State,
and to what extent binding is explained in Messenger v.
Andersun, 225 U. S. 436. Certainly, omissions do not
constitute a part of a decision and become the law of the
case, nor does a eontention of counsel not responded to.
The element of taxes in the assessment was not considered by the Supreme Court, and in this court the Connecticut judgment and its effect were the prominent and
determining factors. The question of the inclusion of
tle tax was not discussed or even referred to. Theonly
question considered was the powers given to the directors
of the company by the Connecticut charter and the effect
that was to. be assigned to the Connecticut judgment as
that of a court having jurisdiction to decide what powers
th charter conferred or required. It is hardly necessary
to say that the tax law of Missouri was no part of the

HARTFORD LIFE INS. CO. v,BLINCOE.
129.

137

Opinion of the Court.

charter. It was a condition the company encountered
and became subject to in Missouri.
It was urged, it is t, ue, in the brief of counsel that the
assessment "was vcq r because it included money for
taxes erroneously claimed to be exacted under the laws
of Missouri." No notice, however, was taken of the
contention and no influence given to it or to the effect
it asserted. If it made any impression at all it was obviously as a state question dependent upon the state
statutes upon which we would naturally not anticipate
the state courts, the case necessarily going back to them.
Nor may we judge of the action of the Supreme Court
of the State upon the tax because of its size, nor yield to
the contention of the company that it had not accepted
the assessment plan of insurance but was doing business
on the premium plan, and, therefore, subject to the tax
which it had included in the assessment. These are state
questions and are not within our power to review.
It is further contended by the Hartford Company
that the Supreme Court permitted the recovery of dam-:
ages and attorney's fees under the provisions of a statute
of the State, although there was no evidence in support
thereof except the delay in payment of the claim for insurance, notwithstanding, it is further said; the company
"had prevailed on every issue that had theretofore been
presented," and that by this action the company was
deprived of its property without due process of law, in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
In support of its contention the Company cites § 7068
of the Revised Statutes of Missouri which, it is said,
authorizes such recovery only "if it appear from the
evidence that such company [insurance company] has
vexatiously refused to pay" loss under a policy, and no
evidence was offered on either trial to show the existence
of the condition prescribed by the statute. The immediate

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

answer to the contention is that what the statute prescribed was for the courts of the State to determine and
their construction is not open to our review though we
might consider its application to the circumstances of
of the case to be rather hard. And it would, We think,
be extreme to hold that the statute or its construction is
a violation. of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER
and MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS, dissent.

UNITED STATES v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 143.

Argued January 17, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. An experimental approach through a third person to the corruption
of a juror is enough to constitute an "endeavor" within Crim. Code,
§ 135. P. 143.
2. The term "endeavor" in this section is not subject to the technical
limitations of "attempt," but embraces any effort or essay to accomplish the evil purpose that the section was enacted to prevent.

Id.
3. The section applies where the juror has been summoned to attend
the session at which the trial in view is to be held but has not been
selected or'sworn. Id.
Reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom
Mr. Oliver E. Pagan', Special Assistant to the Attorney

