MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES EX REL. MILWAUKEE SOCIAL
DEMOCRATIC PUBLISHING COMPANY v. BIURLESON, POSTMASTER GENERAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 155. Argued January 18, 19, 1921.-Decided March 7,1921.
1. The provision of the Espionage Law (Act of June 15, 1917, c.30,
Title XII, § 3, 40 Stat. 217) -which denies the mails to newhpapers
and other publications violating its prohibitions, was within the
power of Congress. P. 409.
2. The second-class mail privilege, previously granted for a news-paper, was revoked by the Postmaster General, upon due notice
and. hearing, because, from the time'the United States entered the
World War to the time of the revocation, the paper frequently and
persistently printed articles conveying false reports and false statements with intent to promote the success of the enemies of the
United States and constituting a wilful attempt to cause disloyalty
and refusal of duty in the military and naval forces and to obstruct
the recruiting and enlistment service. Held, that the procedure
satisfied due process of law, p. 409; that the publication was clearly
violative of § 3 of the Espionage Law, p,413; that the order did not
deprive the publisher of constitutional rights of free speech, or -free
press, or of property without due process of law, and was amply
justified by the evidence. Pp. 409, 415.
3. The conclusion of.a head of an executive department upon a matter
of fact within his jurisdiction will not be disturbed by the courts
unless clearly wrong. P. 413.
4. By long executive practice, admission to the second-class mail
privilege is obtained for a publication only by a permit, issued by
the' Postmaster General, after a hearing and upon a showing satisfactory to him or his authorizel *assistants, that it contains and will
continue to contain only mailable matter andthat it will meet the
other requirements of the law. Pp. 410, 415.
5. The power of the Postmaster General to revoke the privilege is an
incident of the power to grant it, recogniied by Congress (31 Stat.
.1107) and by decisions of this court. Pp. 411, 415.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

6. When a newspaper which has been admitted to the second-class
privilege publishes non-mailable matter so frequently as to justify
the presumption that it will continue to do so, the Postmaster General is empowered (Rev. Stats., § 396) to revoke the privilege, not
merely as to particular issues containing such matter, but indefinitely
for the future, subject to the publisher's right to secure a renewal
upon proper application and proof that the paper will conform to
the law. P. 416.
49 App. D. C. 26; 258.Fed. Rep. 282, affirmed.

ERROR to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia which affirmed a judgment
of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing the relator's petition for a writ of mandamus against the Postmaster General. The facts appear in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Henry F. Cochems, with whom Mr. Hubert 0. Wolfe
and Mr. Seymour Stedman were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.The Solicitor General and Mr. William H. Lamar for
defendant in error.
Mr. S. John Block and Mr. Seth Shepard,. by leave of
court, filed a brief as amid curia,.
MR. JusTIcE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
After a hearing on September 22, 1917, by the Third
Assistant Postmaster General, of the time and character
of which the relator (plaintiff in error) had due notice
and at whicb it was represented by its president, an order
was entered revoking the second-class mail privilege
granted to it in 1911 as publisher of the Milwaukee Leader..
So far as apnears, all that the relator desired to say or
offer was heard and received. This hearing was had and

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.

407.

Opinion of the Court.

the order was entered upon the charge that articles were
appearing in relator's paper so violating the provisions
of the National Defense Law, approved June 15, 1917,
which has come to be popularly known as the Espionage
Act of Congress (c. 30, 40 Stat. 217), as to render it "nonmailable " by the express terms of Title XII of that act.
On appeal to the Postmaster General the order was approved. Thereupon the relator filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, praying that a
writ of mandamus issue, commanding the Postmaster
General to annul his order and restore the paper to the
second-class privilege. To a rule to show cause the Postmster General answered, and a demurrer to his answer
being overruled and the relator not pleading further, the
court discharged the rule and dismissed the petition.
The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia affirmed
the judgment of the trial court, and the constitutional
validity of laws of the United States being involved the
case was brought here by writ of error.
The grounds upon which the relator relies, are, in substance, that, to the extent that the Espionage Act confers
power upon the Postmaster General to make the order
entered against it, that act is unconstitutional, because
it does not afford relator a trial in a court of competent
jurisdiction, that the order deprives relator of the right
of free speech, is destructive of the iight8 of a free press,
and deprives it of its property without due process of law.
That a hearing, such as was accorded the relator, on
preciselY such a question as is here involved, when fairly
conducted, satisfies all of tha requirements of due process
of law, has been repeatedly decided. Smith v. Hichcock,
226 U. S. 53, 60; Bates & Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106;
Public Cearing House v. Coy e, 194 U. S. 497; Lewis
Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288.
Since the petition in this case was filed, it has also become settled that the Espionage Act is a valid, constitu-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

tional law. Schenck v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Froh'werk v. United States, 249 U. S. 204; Debs v. United States,
249 U. S. 211; Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616, 619.
The first comprehensive law providing for the classification of mails was enacted on March 3, 1879 (c. 180,
20 Stat. 355). From that time to this, mail classification,
frequently approved by this court, has dealt only with
"mailable matter." In § 7 of that act, still in effect,
"mailable matter " is divided into four classes, and, by
§ 10, the second , class of such "mailable matter" is defined as including newspapers and periodicals. By § 1
of Title XII of the Act of June 15, 1917, supra, any newspaper violating any provision of the act is declared to be
"non-mailable matter," which shall "not be conveyed
in the mails or delivered from any post office or by any,
letter carrier."
The extremely low rate charged for second-class mailto carry it, was said, in argument, to cost seven times the
revenue which it yields-is justified as a part of "the
historic policy of encouraging by low postal rates the dissemination of current intelligence." It is a frank extension of special favors to publishers because of the special
contribution to the public welfare which Congress believes
is derived from the newspaper and other periodical press.
229 U. S. 301, 304.
By now more than forty years of departmental practice,
admission to the privilege-of this second-class mail has
been obtained for a publication only by a permit, issued by
the Postmaster General after a hearing and upon a showing made, satisfactory to him, or his authorized assistants,
that it contains and will continue to contain only mailable
matter -ind that it will meet the various statutory and
other requirements. ,Houghton v. Payne, 194 U' S, 88, 94.
That the power to suspend or revoke such second-class
privilege was a necessary incident to the power to grant it
has long been recognized by statute and by many decisions

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO., v. BURLESON.
407.

Opinion of the Court.

of' this court. (31 Stat. 1107; Smith v. Hitchcock, 226
U. S. 53, 57; Houghton v. Payne, 194 -U. S. 88; Bates &
Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106.) Under these statutes
and decisions, if the newspaper of the relator had come to
be so edited that it contained other than "mailable
matter," plainly it was the intention of Congress that it
should no longer be carried as second-class mail and therefore the order to revoke the permit which had been granted
to relator was proper and justified,---and that it had become so changed in character is the holding of the Postmister General and of the two lower courts which we are
reviewing.
For the purpose of preventing disloyalty and disunion
among our people of many origins, and to the end that a
united front should be presented to the enemy, the Espion-.age Act, one of the first of the 'National Defense laws
enacted by Congress after the entry of the United States
into the World War (approved Junt; 15, 1917, 40 Stat. 217),
provided severe punishment for any person who "when
the United States is at war" shall wilfully make or convey
false reports or false statements with intent to interfere
with the operation and success of the military or naval
forces of the country, or with the intent to promote the
success of its enemies, or who shall cause, or attempt to
cause, insubordination, disloyalty, mutiny or refusal of
duty in such forces, or who shall wilfully obstruct the
recruiting and enlistment service of the United States
(§ 3). -One entire title of this act (Title XII) is devoted to
"Use of Mails," and in the exercise of its practically
plenary power over the mails (Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.
727; Public Clearing House v. Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, 506,
507; Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288, 313),
Congress therein provided that any newspaper published
in violation of any of the provisions of the act should be
"non-mailable" and should not be "conveyed in the mails or
delivered from any post office or by any letter carrier."

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.'

It was under the provisions of this war-time act, and
under the specific injunction of § 396 of the Revised Statutes of the United States, declaring it to be the duty of
the Postmaster General to "Superintend generally the
business of the [Post Office] department, and execute all
laws relative to the postal service," that the order in this
case was entered.
The Postmaster General avers that, upon the hearing
which we have described, he found that, beginning within
a week after the declaration of war against the German
Government and continuing to the date of the revocation
of the second-class privilege herein, the relator had published ini its newspaper frequently, often daily, articles
which contained false rep-o-As and false statements, published with intent to interfere with the success of the
military operations of our Government, to promote the
success of its enemies, and to obstruct its recruiting and
enlistment service. For this cause, exercising the power
which we have seen had been invested in the Postmaster
General by statute for almost forty years, and which had
frequently been exercised-byhis predecessors, the respondent revoked the second-class privilege which had been
granted to the relator. A similar executive authority
with respect to matters within their jurisdiction has been
given to the heads of all the greet depai-tments of our
Government and is constantly exercised by them.
This is neither a dangerous nor an arbitrary power, as
was argued at the bar, for it is not only subject to review
by the courts [the claim of the relator was heard and rejected by two courts before this re-examination of it in
this court] but it is also subject to control. by Congress
and by the President of the United States. Under the
Constitution, which we shall find it vehemently denouncing, the rights of the relator were, and are, amply protected by the opportunity thus given it to resort for relief
to all three departments of the Government, if those rights

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

Opinion of the Court.

should be invaded by any ruling of the Postmaster General.
All this being settled law, there remains the question
whether substantial evidence to support his order may be
found in the facts stated in the Postmaster General's
answer, which are admitted by the demurrer, for the law
is, that the conclusion of the head of an executive department of the Government on such a question, when within
his jurisdiction, willnot be disturbed by the courts unless
they are clearly of the opinion that it is wrong. Smith v.
Hitchcock, 226 U. S. 53, 60; Houston v. St. Louis Independent 'Packing Co., 249 U. S. 479, 484, and cases
cited.
In the answer of the Postmaster General there were
quoted more than fifty excerpts from editorial articles
which appeared in relator's newspaper at intervals between.April 14 and September 13, 1917,-the first five
months aftei our country entered ihe great war-upon
consideration of which, with others not reproduced, he
averred, his order was based.
Without going much into detail: It was declared in the
quoted articles, that the. war was unjustifiable and dishonorable on our part, a capitalistic war, which had been
forced upon the people by a class, to serve its selfish ends.
Our Government was denounced-as a "plutocratic republic," a financial and political- autocracy, and resident
Russians were praised for defaming it. Other articles denounced the draft law as unconstitutional, arbitrary and
oppressive, with the implied counsel that it should not be
respected or obeyed, and it was represented that soldiers in
France were becoming insane in such numbers that long
trains of closed cars were being used to convey them away
from the battle front. It'was confidently asserted that
the Constitution of the United States was purposely made
difficult of amendment in order that we might not have
real democracy in. this country, the President was de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of tne Court.

255 U. S.

nounced as an autocrat, and the war legislation as having
been passed by a "rubber stamp Congress." In the guise
of argument these articles sought to convince the readers
of them that soldiers could not legally be §ent outside the
country and that our Government was waging a war of
conquest when Germany was ready to make an honorable
peace. The Food Control Law was denounced as"'Kaiserizing America." It was declared that we were fighting for
commercial supremacy and world domination only and
that when the "financial kings" concluded that further
fighting might endanger their loans to the Allies, they
would move for peace, which would quickly come. Our
"Allies" were repeatedly condemned and our enemies
frequently praised.
These publications were not designed to secure amendment or repeal of the laws denounced in them as arbitrary
and oppressive, but to create hostility to, and to encourage violation of, them. Freedom of the press may proect
criticism and agitation for modification-or repeal of laws,
but it does not extend to protection of him who counsels
.nd encourages the-violation of the law as it exists. The
Constitution was adopted to preserve our Government,
not to serve as & protecting screen for those who while
claiming its privileges seek to destroy it.
Without further discussion of the articles, we cannot
doubt that they conveyed to readers of them, false reports
and false statements with intent to promote the success of
the enemies of the United States, and that they constitu bed
a willful attempt to cause disloyalty and refusal of duty in
the military and naval forces and to obstruct the recruiting and enlistment service of the United States, in violation of the Espionage Law (Schenck v. United States, Frohwerk v. United States, and Deb8 v. United States, supra),
and that therefore their publication brought the paper
containing them within the express terms of Title XII
of that law, declaring that such a publication shall be

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.

407.

Opinion of the Court.

"non-mailable" "and "shall not be conveyed in the
Mails or delivered from any post office or by any letter
earrier."

While written more adroitly than the usual pro-German
propaganda of that time, they nevertheless prove clearly
that the publisher of these articles was deliberately and
,persistently doing all in its power to deter its readers from
supporting the war in which our Government was engaged
and to induce ,them to lend aid and comfort to its enemies.
Fhe order of the Postmaster General not only finds
reasonable support in this record but is amply justified
by it.
We shall notice further only the contention that if it
should be found that the Postmaster General had authority to revoke the second-class privilege as to a single
issue of the paper, nevertheless he did not have power to
make such an order applicable to the indefinite future.
The second-class privilege ever since 1879 has been
granted to a newspaper, as we have seen, only on application of its publisher for entry of it to that class. Upon
such an application, a searching investigation of the
character of the publication is made by the Postmaster
General, under rules and regulations prescribed by him,'
which experience has proved necessary to prevent frauds
upon the Government (United States Postal Laws and
Regulations, 1913, §§ 411 to 435, inclusive;.229 U. S. 306),
and two representative copies of the issue nearest to the
date of the application are required to be filed. If the
publication is found to be entitled to the second-class
privilege, a permit to that effect is issued, which contains,
as did the permit to the relator, the provision that "the
authority herein given is revocable upon determination by
the Department that the publication does. not conform
to the law." Such a permit, however, would be equally
revocable without any such specific reservation. (31
Stat. 1107; Smith v. Hitchcock, 226 U. S. 53, 60).

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S;

It is a reasonable presumption that the character of the
publication as one. entitled to the second-class privilege,
when thus established, will continue to be substantially
maintained, and therefore such a permit is made applicable
to the indefinite future. For the same reason, and because
it would nQt be practicable to examine each issue of a
newspaper, the revocation of a permit must continue until
further order. Government is a practical institution,
adapted to the practical conduct of public affairs. It
would not be possible for the United States to maintain a
reader in every newspaper office of the country to approve
iii advance each issue before it should be allowed to enter
the mails, and when, for more than five months, a paper
had contained, almost daily, articles which, under the
express terms of the statute, rendered it "non-mailable,"
it was reasonable to conclude that it would continue its
disloyal publications and it was therefbre clearly within
the power given to the Postmaster General by Rev. Stats.,
§ 396, to "execute all laws relative to the postal service,"
to enter, as was done in this case, an order suspending the
privilege until a proper application and showing should be
made for its renewal. The order simply withdrew from the
relator the second-class privilege, but did not exclude its
paper from other classes, as it might have done, and there
was nothing in it to prevent reinstatement at any time. It
was open to the relator to mend its ways, to publish a
paper conforming to the law, and then to apply anew for
the second-class mailing privilege. This it did not do,
but, for reasons not difficult to imagine, it preferred this
futile litigation, undertaken upon the theory that a Government com petent to wage war against its foreign
enemies was powerless against its insidious foes at.
home. Whatever injury the relator suffered was the result of its own choice and the judgment of the Court of
Appeals is

Affl~ned.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

417

BRIXDIms, J., dissenting.

MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS, dissenting.

This case arose during the World War; but it presents
no legal question peculiar to war. It is important, because
what we decide may determine in large measure whether
in times of peace ourpress shall be free.
The denial to a newspaper of entry as second-class mail,
or the revocation of an entry previously made, does not
deny to the paper admission to the mail; nor does it deprive the publisher of any mail facility. It merely deprives
him of the very low postal rates, called second class, and
compels him to pay postage for the same service at the
rate called third class, which was, until recently, from
eight to fifteen -times as high as the second-class rate.'
Such is the nature and the only effect of an order denying
or revoking the entry. See Postal Laws and Regulations,
,§§ 421, 422 and 423. In this case entry to the second-class
mail was revoked because' the paper had, in the opinion of
the Postmaster General, systematically inserted editorials
and news items which he deemed unmailable. The question presented is: Did Congress confer upon the Postmaster General authority to deny second-class postal rates

on'that ground? The question is one of statutory construction. No such authority is granted in terms in the statutes which declare what matter, shall be unmailable. Is
there any provision of the postal laws from which the in-'
tention of Congress to grant such power may be inferred?
The specific reasc., why the Postmaster General deemed
these editorials and news items unmailable was that he
considered them violative of Title XII of the Espionage
Act. But it is not contended that this specific reason is of
'Act of March 3, 1885, c. 342, § 1, 23,Stat. 387; Act of March 3,
1879, c. 180, § 17, 20 Stat. 359-360. Compare Act of October 3, 1917,
c. 63, § 1101, 40 Stat. 327. See Message of the President, February 22,
1912, transmitting the Report of the Commission on Second-Class
Mail Matter, 62d Cong.,2d sess., H. R. Doe. 559, pp. 56-61..

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

418 .

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

legal significance. The scope of the Postmaster General's
alleged authority is confessedly the same whether the reason for the nonmailable quality of the matter inserted in a
newspaper is that it violates the Espionage Act, or the
copyright laws, or that it is part of a scheme to defraud, or
concerns lotteries, or is indecent, or is in any other respect
matter which Congress has declared shall not be admitted
to the mails.' The question of. the scope of the Postmaster General's power is presented to us on the following
record:
Some years prior to 1917 The Milwaukee Leader, a daily
newspaper published by the"Milwaukee Social Democratic
Publishing Company, made application to use the secondclass mail, was declared entitled to do so, and thereafter
used it continuously. It built up a l.arge circulation, of
which about 9,000 copies were distributed daily through
the second-class mail. In September, 1917, its publisher
was directed to show cause "why the authorization of admission

.

.

to. the seccnd class mail matter

.

.

should not be revoked upon the following ground:
"The publication is not 'a newspaper or other periodical
publication' within the meaning of the law governing mailable matter of the second class, it being in conflict with the
provisions of the law embodied in section 481V2 Postal
Laws and Regulations."
Criminal Code, § 211 '(obscene matter, information 3oncerning
abortion); § 212 (obscene, libelous or threatening matter upon envelopes.
or postal cards) ; § 213 (m .tter concerning lotteries); § 215 (schemes
to defraud);. § 217 (poisons, insects; reptiles, explosives, intoxicating
liquors);'by Act of March 4, 1911, c. 241, § 2, 36 Stat. 1339, § 211 of
the Criminal Code, supra, was amended to include matter of a character to incite arson, murder, or assassination; by Act of March 3,.
1879, c.-180, § 15, 20 Stat. 359, matter violating copyright laws was
excluded; by Act of July 31, 1912, c. 263, § 1,'37 Stat. 240, prizs-fight
films were excluded; by Act of March 3, 1917, c. 162, § 5, 39 Stat. 1069,
advertisemr4ots and solicitations for orders for intoxicating liquors in
.prohibition States.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

That section relates not specifically to the second-class
mail; but to all mail. It recites the provisions of Title XII
of the Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, 40 Stat. 217,
230, which declares unmailable all letters, pictures, publications and things "in violation of any of the provisions"'
of that act, and prescribes fine -and imprisonment as pun
ishment for the use or attempt to use the postal service for
the transmission of such unmailable matter. I On this
notice to show cause the Third Assistant Postmaster
General held the customary informal hearing. The publisher of The Milwaukee Leader had not been convicted by
any court of violating the Espionage Law; and its representative denied that it had ever committed any act in
violation of it. But the Third Assistant Postmaster General issued on October 3, 1917, to the postmaster at Milwaukee the instruction that The Milwaukee Leader "is
not entitled to transmission in the mails at the secondclass rates of postage because it appears from the evidence
in possession of the Department that the publication is
not a 'newspaper or other periodical publication' within
the meaning of the law governing mailable matter of the
second class, it being in conflict with the provisions of the
law embodied in section 481Y2, Postal Laws and-Regulations."
This determination and action were confirmed by the
Postmaster General; and the postmaster at Milwaukee
thereafter denied to the publication transmission at the
rates provided by law for second-class mail. The order
did not forbid to The Milwaukee Leader all use of the
mails; nor did it limit in any way the use of the mail
facilities; it merely revoked the so-called second-class
mailing permit; and the effect of this was to impose a
I Like punishment is provided in all statutes referred to in note 1,
p. 418, supraexcept that mailing matter violative of the copyright law
is not punishable criminally. The maximum punishment for mailing
prize-fight films is a fine of $1,000 and imprisonment for one year.,

420.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BwmBrs,

J.; dissenting.

.255 U. S.

higher rate of postage on every copy of the newspaper
thereaftor mailed.
The return flied herein by the Postmaster General alleges
that this order "involved the exercise of.judgment. and
discretion on his part" and is "not subject.to be reviewed,
set aside, or controlled by a court -of law;" but he gives
this justification for his action:
'"By-representations and complaints from sundry good
and loyal citizens of the United States and from personal .
reading and consideration of the issues of-the Said relator's
'publication, from the date of the declaration of war down.
.to the time of service of the citation upon it; and the hearing granted .in pursuance thereof, it seemed to this respondent, in the exercise of his judgment and discretion
and in obedience to the duty on him reposed as well by the
general statutes as by the special provisions of said Espionage Law, that the provisions of the latter act were systematically-and continually violated by the relator's publi.
cation"
it thus appears. that' the Postmaster General, in the
exercise of a supposed discretion,-refused to carry at secondclass mail rates all future issues, of' The Milwaukee Leader,
solely because he believed it had systematically violated
the Espionage Act -in the past. It further appears that
this belief rested partly upon the contents of past issues
of the paper filed with the return and partly upon "representations and complaints -from sundry good and loyal
citizens," whose statements are not. incorporated in this
record and which do not appear to have been called to the
attention of the publisher of The Milwaukee Leader at the
hearing or otherwise. It is this general refusal thereafter
to accept the paper for transmission at the second-class
mail rates which .is challenged as being without warrant in
law.
In discussing whether Congress conferred upon the Post-.
master' General the authority which he undertook to exer-

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

cise in this case, I shall consider, first, whether he would
have had the power to exclude the paper altogether from
all future mail service on the ground alleged; and second,
whether he had power to deny the publisher the secondclass rate.
First. Power to exclude from the mails has never been
conferred in terms upon the Postmaster General. Beginning with the Act of March 3, 1865, c. 89, § 16, 13 Stat. 507,
relating to obscene matter and the Act of July 27, 1868, c.
246, §13, 15 Stat. 196, concerning lotteries, Congress has
from time to time forbidden the deposit in the mails of
certain matter. In each instance, in addition to prescribing fine and imprisonment as a punishment for sending or
attempting to send the prohibited matter through the mail,
it declared that such matter should not be conveyed in the
mail, nor delivered from any post office nor by any letter
carrier.1 By §6 of the Act of June 8, 1872, c. 335, 17 Stat.
285, -(Rev. Stats., §396), the Postmaster General was empowered to "superintend the business of the department,
and execute all laws relative to the postal service." As a
matter of administration the Postmaster General, through
his subordinates, rejects matter offered for mailing, or removes matter already in the mail, Which n his judgment
is unmailable. The existence in the Postmaster General
of the power to do this cannot be doubted. The only
question which can arise is whether in the individual case
the power has been illegally exercised. 2 But while hei-ay
ICriminal Code, §§ 211, 212, 213, 217; Act of March 3, 1917,
f.
162, § 5, 39 Stat. 1069; Espionage Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30, Title XII,
40 Stat. 230.
2Orders excluding individual issues of newspapers or periodicals
because of unmailable matter contained therein were sustained in
Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten, 246 Fed. Rep. 24; Anderson v. Patten,
247 Fed. Rep. 382. In Post Publishing Co. v. Murray, 230 Fed. Rep.
773; and Brooklyn Daily Eagle v. Voorhies, 181 Fed. Rev. 579, such

orders were dnjgined as being unwarranted by the facts.
Davis v. Brown, 103 Fed. Rep. 909.

See also

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

thus exclude from the mail'specific matter which he deems
of the kind declared by Congress to be unmailable, he may
not, either as a preventive measure or as a punishment,
order that in the future mail tendered by a particular person or the future issues of a particular paper shall be refused
transmission.
Until recently, at least, this appears never to have been
questioned and the Post Office Department has been
authoritatively advised that the power of excluding matter
from the' mail was limited to such specific matter as upon
examination was found to be unmailable and that the Postmaster-General could not make an exclusion order operative upon future issues of a newspaper.;
In 1890 Tolstoi's Kreutzer Sonata had been excluded
from the mails 'as indecent. Certain newspapers began to
publish the book in instalments and their position 'was
,referred to the Attorney General. He replied:
I do not see that it necessarily follows that
every instalment of the story thus publishedjs obscene, because the story as a whole is declared to be so. It may be,
indeed, that one or more chapters of this story are entirely
unexceptionable in character. If so, the exclusion, as unmailable, of newspaperg containing them might involve
serious consequences to yourself." (19 Ops. Atty. Gen.

667, 668.)
Again, in 1908, President Roosevelt asked the Attorney
General if the law permitted him to deny the mails to an
anarchist newspaper published in the Italian language in
which appeared articles advocating the murder of the police force of Paterson and the burning of the city. The
Attorney General advised him that such an article constituted a seditious libel (it has since been made criminal
by statute, Act of March 4, 1911, c. 241, §2, 36 Stat. 1339),
and' that "the Postmaster General (would) be justified in
excluding from the mails any issue of any 'periodical,
otherwise entitled to the privileges of second-class mail

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRANDis, J., dissenting.

matter, which shall contain any article containing a seditious libel and counseling such crimes as murder, arson,
riot, and treason." (26 Ops. Atty. Gen. 555.)
But the Attorney General'was careful to point out that
the la* gave no authority to exclude issues of the paper
which should contain no objectionable matter:
"It must be premised that the PostmastEr General
clearly has no power to close the mails to any class of persons, however reprehensible may be their practices or however detestable their reputation; if the question were
whether the mails could be closed to all issues of a newspaper, otherwise entitled to admission, by reason of an article of this character in any particular issue, there could
be no doubt that the question must be answered in the
negative" p. 565.
If such power were possessed by the Postmaster General,
he would, in view of the practical finality of.his decisions,
become the universal censor of publications. For a denial
of the use of the mail would be for most of them tantamount to a denial of the right of circulation. Congress has
not granted to the Postmaster General power to deny the
right of sending matter by mail even to one who has been
convicted by a jury and sentenced by P. court for unlawful
use of the mail and who has been found by the Postmaster

General to have been habitually using the mail for frauds
or lotteries and is likely to do so in the future. It has, in
order to protect the public, directed postmasters to return
to the sender mail addressed to one found by the Post.master General to be engaged in a scheme to defraud or in
a lottery enterprise.' But beyond this Congress has never
Revised Statutes, § 3929, as amended by Act September 19, 1890,
c. 908, § 2, 26 Stat. 465, as amended by Act March 2, 1895, c. 191, § 4,
28 Stat. 964.
By § 2 of the Act of May 16, 1918, c. 75, 40 Stat. 554--enacted after
this case had gone to judgment in the trial court-uthority was conferred upon the Postmaster General to stop, in like marker, deliver

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRAIN

.s,J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

deemed it wise, if, -indeed, it has considered it constitutional, to interfere with the civil right of using the mail for
lawful purposes.'
The Postmaster General does not claim here the power
to issue an order directly denying a newspaper all mail
service for the future. - Indeed. he asserts that the mail
of mailto a person whom he finds "upon evidence satisfactory to him"
to be uiing the mails in violation of the Espionage Act.
'In the Sixty-third Congress,'Third Session (1915) a bill, H. R.
20644, was introduced to deny absolutely the -use,of the mail to any
person who, in the opinion of the Postmaster General, "is engaged or
represents himself as engaged in-the, business of publishing any books
or pamphlets of an indecent, immoral, scurrilous or libellous character." It was objected: The, "bill would invest one man
.
with the power to destroy the business of a publisher without affording
any opportunity for trial by jury,'according to regular court practice.
The punishment which may be inflicted upon a publisher by the Postmaster General under the provisions of this bill is most severe, absolutely depriving him of the privilege of using the United States mails,
even for legitimate purposes.
Furthermore, this bill makes "
it possible for the Postmaster General to inflict what is practically a
confiscatory penalty for an offence not clearly defined.
Under such circumstaihces as these it is not safe to leave to the decision
lof one man, after an ex pare investigation, a decision which will involce
the freedom of the press. Trial by jury and a penalty inflicted for'
each specified act is the only safeguard against an arbitrary and tyrannical power." The bill failed of..passage. Hearings -before Committee on Post Office and Post Roads, February 1, .1915, On Exclusion
of Certain Publications from the Mails, pp. 38, 39, 63rd Cong. 3d
sess. See The Postal Power of Congress, by Lindsay Rogers, Johns
Hopkins University Studies (1916; Series XXXIV, No. 2), pp. 158, 159.
2In a letter to Senator B3ankliead the Postmaster General said:
"I will state generally with regard to the action of the Department
that no. newspaper or periodical has been denied the privilege of the
mails as such. Particular issues of certain 'publications have, been
found to contain matter which would interfere with the operation or
successof the military or naval forces
. .
etc., etc. . . *. and
therefore nonmailable under the act in question." Cong. Rec. Aug. 22,
1917, pp. 6851-6857. See also a letter to Mr. Moon, Chairman of the
House Committee on Post Offices and Post Roads, House Report'No.
109, 65th Cong., 1st sess.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRAw

is,
J., dissenting.

is still open to the Milwaukee Leader upon payment of
first, third or fourth-class rates. He contends however
that in regard to second-class rates special provisions of
law apply under which he may deny that particular rate
at his discretion. This contention will now be considered.
Second. The second-class mail rate is confined to news-

papers and other periodicals, which possess the qualifications and comply with the conditions prescribed by Congress. 1 In the present case the Postmaster General insists
that by reason of alleged past violations of Title XII of the
Espionage Act, two of the conditions had ceased to be fulfilled. -His reasons are these: The Mail Classification Act

of March 3, 1879, c. 180, 20 Stat. 358, provides by § 14,
that a newspaper to be mailable at the second-class rates
"must regularly be issued at stated intervals, as frequently
Act of March 3, 1879, c. 180, § 14, 20 Stat. 359: "That the conditions upon which a publicationaihall be adinittcd to the second class
are as follows:
First. It must regularly be issued. at stated intervals, as frequently
as four times a year, and bear a dcate of issue, and be numbered consecutively.
Second. It must be issued from a known office of publication.
Third. It must be formed of printed paper sheets, without board,
cloth, leather, or other substantial binding, such as distinguish printed
books for preservation from periodical publications.
Fourth. It must be originated and published for the dissemination
of information of a publicxcharacter, or devoted to literature, the
sciences, arts, or some special industry, and having a legitimate list
of subscribers; Provided, however, That nothing herein contained shall
be so construed as to admit to the second class rate regular publications
designed primarily for advertising purposes, or for free circulation, or
for circulation at nominal rates."
Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389, § 1, 37 Stat. 550, applying to publications of benevolent, professional, etc., societies, educational institutions, state boards, trade unions, etc.
Act of August 24, 1912, c. 389,. § 2, 37 Stat. 553, requiring a sworn
statement of the names of eqitors, owners, stockholders, bondholders,
etc., and that all paid matter be plainly marked "advertisement."

Lewis PublishingCo. v. Morgan, 229 U. S.288.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

as four times a year," and that it must be "originated and
published for the dissemination of information of a public
character." If any issue-of-a paper has contained matter
violative of the Espionage Act, the paper is no longer "regularly isued"; and likewise it has ceased to be a paper
"'published for the disseminationof information of a pub-lic character. "I The argument is obviously unsound. The
requirement that the newspaper be "regularly issued" refers, not tq the propriety of the reading matter, but to the
fact that publication periodically at stated intervals must
be intended and that the intention must be carried out.
Similarly, the requirement that the paper be "published
for the dissemination of information of a public character"
refers not to the reliability of the information or the
soundness of the opinions expressed therein, but to the
general character of the publication.

The Classification

Act does not purport to deal with the effect of, or the punishment for, crimes committed through a publication. It
simply provides rates and classifies the material which may
be sent at the respective rates. The act says what shall
'In a letter to Senator Bankhead August 22, 1917, Cong. Rec' pp.

6851-6857, submitted at the argument, the Postmaster General said:
"For many (?) years this Department has held publications not to'
be 'regularly issued' in contemplation of law when any issue contained,
non-mailable matter; and when the second-class privilege has been
withdrawn under such circumstances, the'formal notice of withdrawal
has contained the statement that the second-class privilege has been
revoked on both the grounds stated."
In his report for the year ending ,June 30, 1918, the Postmaster
Genera" says, p. 46:
"In the administration of the law governing second-class matter it
was again found necessary to revoke the second-class mail privilege
of some 15ublications for the reason that their contents consisted more
or less of matter which was non-mailable under the Espionage and
other laws, and which, therefore, removed them from the class -of
publications entitled to that privilege."
The statement is repeated in the Postmaster deneral's report for
the year ending June 30, 1919. p. 25.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. s. BURLESON.
407.

BRmmwIs, J., dissenting.

constitute a newspaper. Undoubtedly the Postmaster
General has latitude of judgment in deciding whether a
publication meets the definition of a newspaper laid down
by the law, but the courts have jurisdiction to decide
whether the reasons which an administrative officer gives
for his actions agree with the requirements of the statute
under which he purports to act. Gegiow v. Uhl, 239 U. S.
3; American School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187
U. S. 94. The fact that material appearing in a newspaper
is unmailable under wholly different provisions of law can
have no effect on whether or not the publication is a
newspaper. Although it violates the law, it remains a
newspaper. If it is a bad newspaper the act which makes
it illegal and not the Classification Act provides the punishment.
There is, also, presented in brief and argument, a much
broader claim in support of the action of the Postmaster
General. It is insisted that a. citizen uses the mail at
second-class rates not as of right-but by virtue of a privilege or permission, the granting of which rests in the discretion of the Postmaster General. Because the payment made
for this governmental service is less than it costs, it is assumed that a properly qualified person has not the right to
the service so long as it is offered; and may not complain if
it is denied to him. The service is called the second-class
privilege. The certificate evidencing such freedom is spoken of as a permit. But, in fact, the right to the lawful
postal rates is a right independent of the discrc tion of the
Postmaster General. The right and conditions of its existence are defined and rest wholly upon mandatory legislation of Congress. It is the duty of the Postmaster General to determine whether the conditions prescribed for any
rate exist. This determination in the case of the secondclass rate may involve more subjects of enquiry, some of
them, perhaps, of greater difficulty, than in cases of other
rates. But the function of the Postmaster General is the

.428

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANimis,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

same in all cases. In making the determination he must,
like a court or a jury, form a judgment whether certain,
.'conditions pregcribed by Congress exist, on controverted
facts or by applying the law. The function is a strictly
judicial one, although exercised in administering an executive o0ffice. 1 And it is not a function which either involvesor permits the exercise of discretionary power. The
so-called permit is mere formal notice of his judgment, but
-.indispensable to the publisher because without it the local
postmaster will not transmit the publication at secondclass rates. The same sort of permit is necessary for the
same bulk service at first, third or fourth-class rates. 2
There is nothing, in short, about the second-class rate which
furnishes the slightest basis in law for differentiating it
from the other rates so faa as the discretion of the Postmaster General to grant or withhold it is concerned.
Third. Such is the legislation of Congress. It clearly
appears that there was no express grant of power to the
Postmaster General to deny second-class mail rates to future issues of a newspaper because in his opinion it had
systematically violated the Espionage Act in the past; and
it seems equally clear that-there is no basis for the contenIThe orders of the Postmaster General excluding periodicals from
second-class mail, sustained in Houghton v. Payne, 194 U. S. 88; Bates
Guild Co. v. Payne, 194 U. S. 106, and Smith v. Hitchcock, 226 U. S.
53; as well as the fraud orders sustained in Public.Clearing House v.
Coyne, 194 U. S. 497, and that with which the court refused to interfere by certiorhri in Degge v. Hitchcock, 229 U. S. 162, involved
merely decisions of this nature. In American School of Magnetic Healing v.McAnnulty, 187 U. S. 94, his fraud order was set aside because
wholly unwarranted by the facts.
'Under recent legislation a "permit" may be issued for either first,
third or fourth-class mail. Under Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1759, § 2,
33 Stat. 429, 440, as amended by Act of May 18, 1916, c. 126, § 13,
39 Stat. 159, 162, and Act of 'April 24,11920, c. 161, 41 Stat. 574, identical articles may be deposited in large quantities without stamps
dffixed-and sent.at first, third or fourth-class rates, according to their
nature, by paying the postage in advance in cash in a lump sum.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

429

BRANDEIs, J., dissenting.

tion that such power is to be implied. In respect to newspapers mailed by a publisher at second-class rates there is
clearly no occasion to imply this drastic power. 1 For a
publisher must deposit with the local postmaster, before
the first mailing of every issue, a copy of the publication
which is now examined for matter subject to a higher rate
and in order to determine the portion devoted to advertising. Act of March 3, 1879, c. 180, § 12, 20 Stat. 359; Act
of October 3, 1917, c. 63, § 1101, 40 Stat. 327. If there is
illegal material in the newspaper, here is ample opportunity to discover it and remove the paper from the mail.
Indeed, of the four classes of mail, it is the second alone
which affords to the postal official full opportunity of ascertaining, before deposit in the mail, whether that which it
is proposed to transmit is mailable matter. But even if the
statutes were less clear in this respect than they seem to
me, I should be led to adopt that construction because of
the familiar rule that "where a statute is susceptible of
two constructions, by one of which grave and doubtful
constitutional questions arise and by the other of which
such questions are avoided, our duty is to adopt the latter." United States v. Delawam & Hudson Co., 213 U. S.
366, 408. For adoption of the Construction urged by the
Postmaster General would raise not only a grave question,
but a "succession of constitutional doubts" as suggested in
Harriman v. Interstate Commerce Commission 211 U. S.
407, 422. It would in practice seriously abridge the free'In the one case where drastic preventive measures were considered
necessary-in the case of the foreign language press--Congress granted
discretionary power to the Postmaster General specifically and in plain.
terms. By'Act of October, 6, 1917, c. 106, § 19, 40 Stat. 425 (The
Trading With The Enemy Act), it was provided that, until the end
of the war, foreign language papers should be nonmailable unless a
translation should have been previously filed with the local postmaster,
but that the Postmaster General might at his discretion grant a permit
to mail without such translation. This act applied to publications
6ent by any class of the mails.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIs,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

dom of the press. Would it not 'also violate the First
Amendment? It would in practice deprive many publishers of their property without due process of law. Would
it not also violate the Fifth Amendment? It would in
practice subject publishers to punishment without a hearing by any court. Would it not also violate Article III of
the Constitution? It would in practice subject publishers
to severe punishment for an infamous crime without trial
by jury. Would it not also violate the Sixth Amendment?
And the punishment infficted-denial of a civil right-is
certainly unusual. Would it also violate the Eighth
Amendment? If the construction urged by the Postmaster
General is rejected, these questions need not be answered;
but it seems appropriate to indicate why the doubts raised
by them are grave.
(a) The power to police the mails is an incident of the
postal power. Congress may, of course, exclude from the
mails matter which is dangerous or which carries on its
face immoral expressions, threats or libels. It may go
further and through its power of exclusion exercise, within
limits, general police power over the material which it
carries, even though its regulations are quite unrelated to
the business of transporting mails. In re Rapier, 143 U. S.
110. Lewis Publishing Co. v. Morgan, 229 U. S. 288. As
stated in Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 732: "The difficulty attending the subject arises, not from the want of
power in Congress to prescribe regulations as to what shall
constitute mail matter, but from the necessity of enforcing
them consistently with rights reserved to the people, of far
greater importance than the transportation of the mail."
In,other words, the postal power, like all its other powers,
is subject to the limitations of the Bill of Rights. Burton
v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 371. Compare Adair v.
United States, 208 U. S. 161. Congress may not through
its postal police power put limitations upon the freedom of
the press which if directly attempted would be unconstitu-

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.

407.

BAmis,J., dissenting.

tional. This court also stated in Ex parte Jackson, that

"Liberty of circulating is as essential to that freedom as
liberty of publishing; indeed, without the circulation, the
publication would be of little value." It is argued that
although a newspaper is barred from the second-class mail,
liberty of circulation is not denied; because the first and
third-class mail and also other means of transportation
are left open to a publisher. Constitutional rights should
not be frittered away by arguments so technical and unsubstantial. "The Constitution deals with substance, not
shadows. Its inhibition was levelled at the thing, not the
name."

Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 325.

The

Government might, of course, decline altogether to distribute newspapers; or it might decline to carry any at less
than the cost of the service; and it would not thereby
abridge the freedom of the press, since to all papers other
means of transportation would be left open. But to carry
newspapers generally at a sixth of the cost of the service and
to deny that service to one paper of-the same general
character, -ecause to the Postmaster General views
therein expressed in the-past seem illegal, would prove an
effective censorship and abridge seriously freedom of expression.'
How dangerous to liberty of the press would be the
SSee "Freedom of Speech" by Zechariah Chafee, Jr., pp. 105-109,
233-234; also p. 199: "A newspaper editor fears being put out of
business by the administrative denial of the second-class mailing
privileg# much more than the prospect of prison subject to a jury
trial." It has been uniformly held that a statute prescribing similar
penalties for failure to observe its provisions or the order of a public
service commission, although made after, full hearing, is a deterrent
so potent as to amount to a denial of the right to a judicial review, and
operate as a taking of property without due process of law in violation
of the Fourteenth AmendmeAt. Ex pare Young, 209 U. S.123, 147;
MiesouriPacific Ry. Co. v. Tucker, 230 U. S. 340,349; Wadley Southern
Ry. Co.v. Georgia, 235 U. S.651, 662; Okkahma Operating Co. v. Love,
252 U. S. 331, 337.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

holding that the second-class mail service is merely a
privilege, which Congress may deny to those whose views
it deems to be against public policy is shown by the
following contention made in 1912 by the Solicitor General
in the Lewis Case (see Brief, pp. 46-47):
"A possible abuse of power is no argument against its
existence, but we may as well observe that a denial of
the mails to a paper because of its ownership or the views
held by its owners may well be illegal as having no relation to the thing carried in the mails unless the views
are expressed in the paper; but if such views are expressed
in the paper Congress can. doubtless exclude them, just
as Congress could now exclude all papers advocating
lotteries, prohibition, anarchy, or a protective tariff if a
majority (if Congress thought such views against public
policy." (Italics in the original.) I
(b) The right which Congress has given to all properly
ciroumstaniced persons to distribute newspapers and
periodicals through the mails is a substantial right.
Hoover v. McChesney, 81 Fed. Rep. 472; Payne v. National
Railway Publishing Co., 20 App. .D. C. 581; 192 U. S.
602. Itris of the same nature as, indeed, it is a part of,
the right to carry on business which this court has been
jealous to protect against what it has considered arbitrary
-7deprivations. Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161;
Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Adams v. Tanner, 244
U. S. 590; Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578. A law
by which certain publishers were unreasonably or arbitrarily denied the low rates would' deprive them of
liberty or property without due process of law; and it
It was, perhaps, in reference to this contention that the court
said in closing its opinion in that case (p. 316): "We do not wish even
by the remotest implication to be regarded as assenting to the broad
contentions concermn g the existence of arbitrary power through the
classification, of the mails, or by way of condition embodied in-the
proposition of the Government which we have previously stated."

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRamDES,

J., dissenting.

would likewise deny them equal protection of the laws.
Compare Second Employer8' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1,

52-53. The court might hold that a statute which con-

ferred upon the Postmaster General the power to do this,
because of supposed past infractions of law, was unreasonable and arbitrary; particularly in respect to secondclass mail which affords ample opportunity for preventing
the transmission of unmailable matter; and hence obnoxious to the Fifth Amendment.
The contention that, because the rates are non-compensatory, use of the second-class mail is not a right but
a privilege which may be granted or withheld at the
pleasure of Congress, rests upon an entire misconception,
when applied to individual members of a class. The
fact that it is largely gratuitous makes clearer its position
as a right; for it is paid for by taxation.'
(c) The order revoking the entry of The Milwaukee
Leader to second-class mail was clearly a punitive, not a
preventive measure; as all classes of mail except the
second were, as the Postmaster General states, left open
to it provided it had sufficient financial resources. Of
'This is true, although the deficit is covered directly, in large part,
by profits on first-class mail. The net cost of this service to the Government was, before the World War, equal to one-tenth of its expenditures
for all other than postal purposes. Compare Lewis Publishing Co. v.
Morgan, 229 U. S. 288, 304, with 34. Statistical Abstract of the United
States (1911), p. 656. The justification for this non-compensatory
service lies in the belief that education in its broad sense-intellectual
activity fostered through the dissemination of information and of
ideas-is essential to the life of a free, self-governing and striving
people. This non-compensatory service is comparable to many rendered by the Government, e. g., to the facilitation of communication
and commerce by port, canal, passport or consular services, for all of
which only small charges, or none, are made.
That a Government furnishing public service must be judged by
ordinary standards of. public callings, see Chafee on Freedom of
Speech, p. 109, citing H. J. Laski in 31 Harvard Law Review, 186, and
Laski's Authority in the Modem State, p. 378.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

the three left available, the third class, being for "miscellaneous printed matter," was an appropriate one for
distributing newspapers and was the cheapest. But the
additional cost to the publisher involved in distributing
daily 9,000 copies by the third-class mail would be a
very serious one. The actual'and intended effect of the
order was merely to impose a very heavy fine, possibly
$150 a day, for supposed transgression in the past. But
the trial and; punishment of crimes is a function which
the Constitution, Article III, § 2, cl. 3, entrusts to the
judiciary.' I am not aware that any oblher civil administrative officer has assumed, in any cot ntry in which
the common law prevails, the power to Lflict upon a
citizen severe punishment for an infamous -- ime. Possibly the court would hold that Congress cou.1 not, iii
view of Article III of the Constitution, confer upon
the Postmaster General as a mere incident in the administration of his department, authority to issue an
order which could operate only as a punishment. See
Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228, 235-237.
(d) The Sixth Amendment guarantees that in all
criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right
to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the
State and district wherein the crime shall have been
committed and that he shall be confronted with the
witnesses against him. It is only in the case of petty
offences that the jury may be dispensed with. Schick v.
United States, 195 U. S. 65, 68. What is in effect a very
heavy fine has been imposed by the Postmaster General.
It has been imposed because he finds that the publisher
has committed the crime of violating the Espionage Act,
And that finding is based in part upon "representations
and complaints from sundry good and loyal citizens"
ICompare Harbor Commissioners v. Redwood Co., 88 Cal* 491;
Cleveland, etc., Ry. Co. v. People, 212 Ill. 638; Langenbergv. Decker, 131
Ind. 471; In re Sims, 54 Kan. 1.

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

BRANDEIS,

435

J., dissenting.

with whom the publisher was not confronted. It may be
,that the court would hold, in view of Article Sixth in our
Bill of Rights, that Congress is without power to confer
upon the Postmaster General, or even upon a court,
except upon the verdict of a jury and upon confronting
the accused with the witnesses against him, authority
to inflict indirectly such a substantial punishment as
this. See Callan v. Wilson, .127 U. S. 540; Thompson v.
Utah, 170 U. S. 343.
(e) The punishment inflicted is not only unusual in
character; it is, so far as known, unprecedented in Ameriean legal history. Eveiy fine imposed by a court is
definite in amount.' Every fine prescribed by Congressis limited in amount. Statutes frequently declare that
each day's continuation of an offence shall constitute a
new crime. But here a fine imposed for a past offence
is made to grow indefinitely each day-perhaps throughout the life of the publication. Already, having grown
at the rate of say $150 a day, it may aggregate, if the
circulation has been maintained, about $180,000 for the
three years-and four months since the order'Was entered;
'and its growth continues. It was assumed in WatersPierce Oil Co. v. Texas (No. 1), 212 U. S. 86, 111, that
an excessive fine, even if definite, would violate the
Eighth Amendment. Possibly the court, applying the
Eighth Amendment, might again, as in Wems v.. rinited
States, 217 U. S. 349, 381, make clear the "difference
between unrestrained power and that which is exercised
under the spirit of constitutional limitations formed to
establish justice."
. The suggestion is made that if a new application for
entry to second-class mail had been made the publishers
might have been granted a certificate. It is no bar to
proceedings to set aside an illegal sentence, that an apCompare Morris v. State, 1 Blackf. (Ind.) 37, 38; State v. Bennett,
4 Dev. & B. (N. Car.) 43, 50; Easterling v. State, 35 Miss. 210.

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
HoLMs, J., dissenting.

255 U. S.

plication to the Executive for clemency might have
7.
resulted in a pardon.
In conclusion I say again-because it cannot be
stressed too strongly-that, the power here claimed is
not a war power. There is no question of its necessity
to protect the country from insidious domestic foes.
To that end Congress conferred upon'the Postmaster
General the enormous power contained in the Espionage
Act of entirely excluding from the mails any letter,
picture or publication which contained matter violating
the broad terms of that act. But it did not conferand the Postmaster General concedes that it did not
confer-the vague and absolute authority practically
to deny circulation to any publication which in his
opinion is likely to violate in the future any postal law.
The grant of that power is construed into a postal rate
statute passed forty years ago which has never before
been suspected of containing such implications. I cannot believe that in establishing postal classifications in
1879 Congress intended to confer upon the Postmaster
General authority to issue the order here complained of.
If, under the Constitution, administrative officers may,
as a mere incident of the peace time administration of
their departments, be vested with the power to issue such
orders as this, there is little of substance in our Bill of
Rights and in every extension of governmental functions
lurks a new danger to civil liberty.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.

I have had the advantage of reading the judgment of
my brother Brandeis in this case and I agree in substance
with his view. At first it seemed to me that if a publisher should announce in terms that he proposed to print
tTeason and should demand a second-class rate it must
be tbat the Postmaster General would have authority

MILWAUKEE PUB. CO. v. BURLESON.
407.

HoLMEs, J., dissenting.

to refuse it. But reflection has convinced me that I was
wrong. The question of the rate has nothing to do with
the question whether the matter is mailable, and I am
satisfied that the Postmaster cannot determine in advance
that a certain newspaper is going to be non-mailable and
on that ground deny to it not the use of the mails but the
rate of postage that the statute says shall be charged.
Of course the Postmaster may deny or revoke the secondclass rate to a publication that does not comply with the
conditions attached to it by statute, but as my brother
Brandeis has pointed out, the conditions attached to the
second-class rate by the statute cannot be made to justify
the Postmaster's action except by a quibble. On the
other hand the regulation of the right to use the mails
by the Espionage Act has no peculiarities as a war measure
but is similar to that in earlier cases, such as obscene.
documents. Papers that violate the act are declared nonmailable and the use of the mails for the transmission
of them is made criminal. But the only power given to
the Postmaster is to refrain from forwarding the papers
when received and to return them to the senders. Act
of June 15, 1917, c. 30, Title XII, 40 Stat. 217, 230. Act
of May 16, 1918, c. 75, 40 Stat. 553, 554. He could not
issue a general order that a certain newspaper should not
be carried because he thought it likely or certain that it
would contain treasonable or obscene talk. The United
States may give. up the Post Office when it sees fit, but
while it carries it on the use of the mails is almost as much
a part of free speech as the right to use our tongues, and
it would take very strong language to convince me that
Congress ever intended to give such a practically despotic
power to any one man., There is no pretence that it has
done so. Therefore I do not consider the limits of its
constitutional power.
To refuse the second-class rate to a newspaper is to
make its circulation impossible and has all the effect of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

the order that I have supposed. I repeat. When I observe that the only powers expressly given to the Postmaster General to prevent the cahiage of unlawful matter
of the present kind are to stop and to return papers already existing and posted, when I notice that the conditions expressly attadhed to the second-class rate look
only to wholly different matters, and when I consider
the ease with which the power claimed by the Postmaster
could be used td interfere with very sacred rights, I am
of opinion that the refusal to allow the relator the rate
to which it was entitled whenever its newspaper was
carried, on the ground that the paper ought not to be
carried at all, was unjustified by statute and was a serious
attack upon liberties that not even the war induced Con,gress to infringe.

PAYNE, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, ET AL.
v. UNITED STATES EX REL. NEWTON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF 'THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 123. Argued December 16, 1920.-Decided March 14, 1921.
1. After the lapse of two years from the date of the issuance of a
receiver's receipt upon.a final entry under the homestead law, if no
contest or protest against the validity of the entry be then pending,

the Land Department is required, by § 7 of the Act of March 3, 1891,
to issue a patent for the land. P. 442. Lane v. Hoglhnd, 244 U. S. 174.
2. The purpose of this provision is to give the entryman, after the
time limited, the advantage of the patent and legal title and thus

transfer any later controversy over the validity of the entry from
the department to the courts. P. 444.
3. The duty to issue the patent is not suspended by the initiation after
the two years have elapsed of proceedings in thr department to

