WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
472.

Syllabus.

Finally it is contended that the Government took only
the upland. But the Act of 1917 provides for the taking

of "the whole of North Island" and for "the determination and appraisement of any rights private parties may
have in said island," and the bill follows the act and prays
that if the defendant company has any right to the tract or
any part thereof the right "and the whole thereof" may
be "appraised and condemned." We discover no error in

the proceedings below.

Decree and judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no part in the decision of

this case.

STATE OF WYOMING ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 257. Argued October 6, 7,,1920.-Decided March 28, 1921.
1. Lands "in place " granted to a State for the support of schools,
and subsequently included within a reservation by the United States,
are exchangeable for unappropriated, 'non-mineral public lands of
equal acreage outside the reservation, under the Act of February 28,
1891, c. 384, 26 Stat. 796, amending §§ 2275, 2276; Rev. Stats.
P. 493.
2. Although, under other general provisions (Rev. Stats., §§ 441, 453,
2478), the lieu lands are selected by the State under the direction
of the Secretary of the Interior, this implies no discretion in him or
in the Land Department to refuse approval of selections duly made,
their function here being purely the judicial one of determining
whether selections, with accompanying surrenders of base land, complied with the act of Congress and the Sefretary's directions, under
the conditions existing at the time when the selections were made
and completed. P. 496.

490

OCTOBER. TERM, -920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

3. When such a selection, with accompanying waiver or surrender, has
been duly made and completed, in full conformity with the act and
the directions of the Secretary, the equitable title to the tract
selected iasses to the State, the United States acquiring a like title
to the base land; and the rights of the State cannot be affected by
a subsequent attempt by the executive to reserve the tract selected,
or a subsequent discovery that it contains mineral. P. 497. Wisconsin
CentralR. R. Co. v. Price County, 133 U. S.'496, and Cosmos Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301, explained.
4. It is a general rule that the question of the mineral or non-mineral
character of land selected or entered shall be determined as of the
time when the selector or entryman fully complied with all con"ditions precedent resting upon him. P. 500.
5. The exception to this rule found in the case of lands claimed under
railroad aid grants, where the question of mineral character remains
open until patent issues, is based upon the peculiar terms and subject-matter of the granting acts, their long administrative interpretation, and their restrictive construction in favor of the Gov-ernment. P. 507.
6. Legislation of Congress designed to aid the common schools should
be construed liberally rather than restrictively. P. 508.
7. The Act of June 25j 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847, did not, and constitutionally could not, authorize executive withdrawal of land
equitably vested in a State under a lieu selection. P. 509.
262 Fed. Rep. 675, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. 'John W. Lacey, with whom Mr. William L. Walls,
Attorney General of the State of Wyoming, Mr. D. A.
Preston, Mr. H. S. Ridgely and Mr. Herbert V. Lacey were
on the briefs, for appellants.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Nebeker, with 'whom
Mr. H. L. Underwood, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States:
Until approval by the Secretary of the Interior, no title,
legal or equitable, vests in the State under a lieu or exchange selection application. Cosmos Exploration Co. v.
Gray Eagle Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301; State v. Hye, 88 Oregon,

1, 15, 16; Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. V, Price County, 133

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Argument for the United States.

U. S.496, 511, 512; Buena Vista Land Co. v. Honolulu Oil
Co., 166 California, 71; Roberts v. Gebhart, 104 California,
67, 69-71; Baker v. Jamison, 54 Minnesota, 17, 27, 28.
In those\cases where it is held that a selection vests title
in the applicant, the word "selection" means approved
selection. Wisconsin Central R. R. Co. v. Price County,
supra, 514.
It is true the filing of a selection application operates to
give the selector a preference right as against one tendering
a filing thereafter, unless the latter is in support of a
settlement or right initiated prior to the filing. Weyerhaeuser v. Hoyt, 219 U. S. 380, 387,388, 391,392. But this
'principle applies to the relative rights of individual claimants, not to the right of the United States to retain title.
Stalker v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., 225 U. S. 142, 149.
We do not attempt to deny the well settled rule that,
where one has done all that is required of him with respect
to securing a tract of public land, he acquires rights against
the Government and conditions arising after that time are
not to be considered in determining his right to the land.
But that rule is founded upon the theory that by such
compliance with the law the applicant has acqudred an
equitable title to the land; that in equity the larLd is his
and the Government holds it in trust for him. W¥irth v.
Branson, 98 U. S.118, 121; Cornelius v. Ke8sel, 128 U. S.
456, 459; Benson Mining Co. v. Alta Mining o3o., 145
U. S.428, 432-434.
Obviously the rule has no application to a case in which
the performance of some act by a public official is a condition precedent to the vesting of an equitable title.
It is well settled as to railroad indemnity lands that no
title vests until the application to select is made and
approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Sioux City &
St. Paul R. R. Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry.
Co., 117 U. S.406, 408; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. MeComas, 250 U. S.387, 391, 392.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Argument for the United States.

255 U. S.

The withdrawal of the land as mineral, and the establishment of its mineral character prior to approval, barred
acquisition thereof by the State. Act of June 25, 1910,
c. 421, 1 1, 36 Stat. 847; Administrative iuling, 43 L. D.
293.
Such a filing as the one now under consideration is
obviously unlike homestead or other claims upon which
final proofs have been submitted and in which the, claimants have done all that is necessary under the law to vest
them with an equitable title.
It is well established, also, that mere settlement upon
lands of the United States with a declared intention to
obtain title thereto under the preemption laws does not
give a vested interest in the premises so as to deprive
Congress of the power to divest it by grant to another.
Frisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187; Yosemite Valley Case, 15
Wall. 77; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; Russian-American Packing Co. v. United States, 199 U. S. 570, 577, 578;
Wagstaff v. Collins, 97 Fed. Rep. 3, 8.
The doctrine of relation is inapplicable. United States
v. DetroitLumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 334; United States v.
Morrison,240 U. S. 192, 212.
The selected land is mineral in character. If we consider that §§ 2275 and 2276, Rev. Stats., constitute a
grant, it is clear that this land can not pass to the State,
since mineral lands were excepted. The case would
therefore fal within the rule of Barden v. Northern Pacific
R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288; Burke v. Southern Pacific R. R.
Co., 234 U. S. 669; United States v. Southern Pacific Co.,
251 U. S. 1; United States v. Sweet, 245 U. S. 563.
If, however, the sections be construed as conferring
merely a privilege of exchange, then the case would
come under the rule that until equitable title passes, in
this case'until approval, the matter of the character of
the land is open to determination. Leonard v. Lennox,
181 Fed. Rep. 760.

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

Again, even if the transaction is in the nature of a
contract, created by the acceptance by the State of the
invitation or privilege given by the United States, we
assert that the State is b6und by the terms offered, one
of which was that only non-mineral land might be selected. Certainly the State could not expect that its
own showing as to the character of the land was to be
conclusive and to bar the right of the United States,
through its proper officer, from inquiring into that matter.
Roughton v. Knight, 219 U. S. 537, 547. Distinguishing,
Daniels v. Wagner, 237 U. S.547.
MR. JusTicE VA

DEVANTER

delivered the opinion

of the court.
This is a suit by the United States to establish ,title
in it to eighty acres of land and to the proceeds of oil
taken therefrom. The District Court rendered a decree
dismissing the bill on the merits, which the Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed, 262, Fed. Rep. 675, and the defindants bring the case here.
One of the defendants, the State of Wyoming,' cL31ms
Utnder a lieu selection, made in 1912, and the other defendants under a lease from the State, made in 1916.
It is against the selection and the lease that the United
States seeks to establish title.
By the Act of July 10, 1890, c. 664, § 4, 26 Stat. 222,
Congress granted to the State for the support of common
schools certain lands in place (sections 16 and 36 in each
township), -with exceptions not material here; and by
the Act of February 28, 1891, c. 384, 26 Stat. 796, amending §§ 2275, 2276, Rev. Stats., the State was invited
and entitled, in the event any of the designated lands in
1

The State was not made a party at first, but afterwards at its own

request was admitted as a defendant to enable it to defend the lieu
selection'

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

place after passing under the school grant should be included within a public reservation, to waive its right
thereto and select in lieu thereof other lands of equal
acreage from unappropriated non-mineral public lands
outside the reservation and within the State. See California v. Deseret Water, etc., Co., 243 U. S. 415; Payne
v. New Mexico, ante, 367.. Other laws of general application, §§ 441, 453, 2478, Rev. Stats., required that the
selections be made under the direction of the Secretary
of the Interior.
In 1897 a tract in.place which had passed to the State
under the school grant was included within a public
reservation, called the Big Horn National Forest. On
April 4, 1912, the State--through its Governor, Joseph
M. Carey, and its Land Commissioner, S. G. Hopkinsfiled in the proper local land office a selection list waiving
its right to that tract and selecting in lieu thereof other
land of the same area from public lands within the State
and outside the forest reserve. The land so selected
included the eighty acres now in controversy. At that
time the State had a perfect title to the tract in the reserve and the land seleeted in lieu thereof was vacant,
unappropriated, and neither known nor believed to be
mineral. The list fully conformed to the directions on
the subject issued by the Secretary of the Interior and
was accompanied by the requisite prdofs and the proper
fees. N6tice 'of the selection was regularly posted and
published, proof thereof was duly made and the State
paid the publisher's charge. Thus, as the Circuit Court
of Appeals said, "the State did everything necessary to
show a perfect title to the land relinquished and perfect
relinquishment thereof to the government, and everything that was required either by statute or regulation
of the Land Department" in selecting the lieu land instead of the relinquished tract.
No objection was called forth by the 4otice and in

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

regular course the local officers transmitted the list and
other papers to the General Land Office with a certificate
stating that no adverse filing, entry or claim to the selected land was shown by the records in their office and
that the filing of the list was allowed and approved by
them. The list remained in the General Land Office
awaiting consideration by the Commissioner for upwards
of three years. In the meantime, on May 6, 1914, two
years after the selection, the selected land, with other
lands aggregating more than 88,000 acres, was included
in a temporary executive withdrawal as possible oil land
under the Act of June 25, 1910, c. 421, 36 Stat. 847. On
April 29, 1915, the Commissioner, coming to consider
the selection, declined to approve it as made and called
on the State either to accept a limited-surface rightcertification of the selected land or to show that it still
was not known or believed to be mineral. The State
declined to accede to either alternative and insisted that
its rights should be determined as of the time when the
waiver and selection were made and that, applying that
test, it became invested with the equitable title to the
selected land two years prior to the temporary withdrawal and at a time when that land plainly was neither
known nor believec to be mineral. The Commissioner
thereupon ordered the selection canceled,-not because
it was in any respect objectionable when made, but on
the theory that he was justified in rejecting it by reason
of the subsequent withdrawal and subsequent oil discoveries in that vicinity. The State appealed to the
Secretary of the Interior, and, on October. 25, 1916, he
affirmed the Commissioner's action.
In the meantime, on May 24, 1916, the State had
given to the defendant Ridgely a lease permitting him
to drill the selected land for oil, and the lease had been
assigned to the defendant oil. company. There was no
oil discovery, nor any drilling, on the selected land up-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

2N U. S.

to the time the lease was given; but thereafter the oil
company began drilling and at large cost carried the
same to discovery and successful production. This was
four years after the selection.
The question presented is whether, considering that
the selection was lawfully made in lieu of the state-owned
tract contemporaneously relinquished, and that nothing
remained to be done by the State to perfect the selection,
it was admissible for the Commissioner and the Secretary
to disapprove and reject it on the ground that the selected land was withdrawn two years later under the
Act of June 25, 1910, and still later was discovered to be
mineral land, that is, to be valuable for oil. Or, putting
it in another way, the question is whether it was admissible
for those officers to test the validity of the selection by the
changed conditions when they came to examine it, instead of by the conditions existing when the State relinquished the tract in the forest reserve and selected
the other in its stead.
In principle it is plain that the validity of the selection
should be determined as of the time when it was made,
that is, according to the conditions then existing, The
proposal for the exchange of land without for land within
the reserve came from Congress. Acceptance rested
with the State and of course would be influenced and
controlled by the conditions existing at the time. It is
not as if the selection was merely a proposal by the
State which the land officers could accept or reject. They
had no such option to exercise, but were charged with the
duty of ascertaining whether the State's waiver and
selection met the requirements of the congressional
proposal and of giving or withholding their approval
accordingly. The power confided to them was not that
of granting or denying a privilege to the State, but of
determining whether an- existing privilege conferred by
Congress had been lawfully exercised;-in other words,

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

their action was to be judicial in its nature and directed
to an ascertainment and declaration of the effect of the
waiver and selection by the State in 1912. If these were
valid then-if they met all the requirements of the congressional proposal, including the directions given by
the Secretary-they remained valid notwithstanding the
subsequent change in conditions. Acceptance of such a
proposal and full compliance therewith confer vested
rights which all must respect. Equity then regards the
gtate as the owner of the selected tract and the United
States as owning the other; and this equitable ownership
carries with it whatever of advantage or disadvantage
may arise from a subsequent change in conditions whether
one tract or the other be affected. Of course the State's
right under- the selection was precisely the same as if in
1912 it had made a cash entry of the selected land under
an applicable statute, for the waiver of its right to the
tract in the forest reserve was the equivalent of a cash
,consideration. And yet it hardly would be suggested
that the Commissioner or the Secretary on coming to
consider the cash entry could do otherwise than ap- prove it, if at the time it was-made the land was open to
such an entry and the amount paid was the lawful price.
The conclusion which .we d&em plain in -principle is
fully sustained by prior adjudications. In Benson Mining
Co. v. Alta Mining Co., 145 U. S. 428, which presented
the question of when under the public land laws a right
to-the land becomes vested, it was said, p. 431: "When
the price is paid the right to a patent immediately arises.
If not issued at once, it is because the magnitude of the
business in the Land Department causes delay. But such
delay, in -the mere administration of affairs, does not
diminish the-rights flowing from the: purchase, or cast
any additional burdens on the purchaser, -or expose him
to the assaults 6f third parties". - And again, p. 432: "It
J4 a genero.l rule in ,respect-tQ the 4|4s of real estate,

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

that when a purchaser has paid the full purchase price
his'equitable rights are complete, and there is nothing
left in the vendor but the naked legal title, which he
holds in trust f6r the purchaser. And this general rule
of real estate law has been repeatedly applied by this
court to the administration of 'the affairs of the Land
Department of the government; and the ruling has been
uniform, that whenever, in cash sales, the price has been
paid, or, in other cases, all the conditions of entry performed, the full equitable title has passed, and only the
naked legal title remains in the government in trust for
the other party, in whom are vested all the rights and
obligations of ownership." In Colorado Coal & Iron Co.
v. United States, 123 U. S. 307, a title obtained through
preemption cash entries was assailed on the ground that
the land was shown by subsequent discoveries to be
mineral; but the attack failed, the court saying, p. 328:
"A change in the conditions occurring subsequently to
the sale, whereby new discoveries are made, or by means
whereof it may become profitable to work the veins as
mines, cannot affect the title as it passed at the time of
sale. The question must be determined according to
the facts in existence at the time of the sale." In United
States v. Iron Silver Mining Co., 128 U. S. 673, a title
acquired through an application for a placer patent was
sought to be annuled oh the ground that subsequent
mining disclosed that the land was lode land; but the
title was sustained, the court observing, p. 683: "The
subsequent discovery of lodes upon the ground, and their
successful working, does not affect the good faith of the
application. That must be determined. by what was
known to exist at the time." Particularly in point is
Shaw v. Kellogg, 170 U. S. 312, which -related to what is
called Baca Tract No. 4. Congress had accorded to the
heirs of Luis Maria Baca the right to relinquish their
claim to a large body of land in New Mexico and to select

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

instead "an equal quantity of vacant land, not mineral,"'
in not exceeding five tracts in that Territory. As here,
there was no provision for a patent. The original claim
was relinquished and the lieu selection made conformably.
to directions given by the Land Department, the selected land being represented'as vacant and not known
to be mineral. Afterwards the selection of a part of Tract
No. 4 was called in question on the ground that it was
shown by subsequent discoveries to -be mineral. This
court sustained the selection and said, p. 332.: "The
grantees, the Baca heirs, were authorized to select this
body of land. They were not at liberty to select lands
already occupied by others.- The lands must be vacant.
Nor were they at liberty to select lands which were then
known to contain mineral. Congress did not intend to
grant any mines or mineral lands, but'with these exceptions their right of selection was coextensive with the
limits of New Mexico. We- say 'lands then known to
contain mineral,' for it cannot be that Congress intended
that the grant should be rendered nugatory by any:future
discoveries of mineral. The selection was to be made
within three years.' The title was then to pass, and it
would be an insult to the good faith of Congress to suppose that it did not intend that the title when it passed
should pass absolutely, and not contingently upon subsequent discoveries. This is in accord with the general
rule as to the transfer of title to the public lands of the
United States. In cases of homestead, preemption or
townsite entries, the law excludes mineral lands, but it
was never doubted that the title once passed was free
from all conditions of subsequent discoveries of mineral."
In Leonard v. Lennox, 181 Fed. Rep. 760, a contention
that an application for a non-mineral final entry, even
if regularly presented-and based on full compliance with
the law, should be disallowed and rejected 'where the
land subsequently_ is discovered to be mineral (coal) was

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

overruled by the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Eighth
Circuit, the court saying, p. 764: "This insistence cannot
prevail. It not only is opposed to the settled rule that the
character of the land-whether agricultural or known to
be chiefly valuable for coal-must be determined according to the conditions existing at the time when the
applicant does all that he is required to do to entitle him
to a patent, but is grounded in a misapprehension of the
authority and duty of the officers of the Land Department
in respect of such an application. Whilst it undoubtedly
is subject to examination and consideration by, them,
this is not that they may elect whether or not they will
consent to its allowance, but that they may ascertain
whether or not the applicant has acquired a ::ght to its
allowance-a right which is acquired, if acquired at all,
at that point of time when the applicant has done all
that he is required to do in the premises instead of at the
time of its recognition by them." The last expression
on this subject in this court is found in Payne v. New
Mexico, ante, 367, where it was held in respect of a state
lieu selection like the one in question here that the Commissioner and the Secretary in acting thereon are required
to give effect to the conditions existing when it was made,
that if it was valid then they are not at liberty to disapprove or cancel it by reason of a subsequent change
in conditioiis and that in this regard the statute under
which the selection was made does not differ from other
land laws offering a conveyance of the title to those who
accept and fully comply with their terms.
. The Land Department uniformly has ruled
that the
States acquire a vested right in all school sections in place
which are not otherwise appropriated,'and not known to he
mineral, at the time they are identified by the survey,---or
at the date of the grant where the survey precedes it,-regardless of when the matter becomes a subject of inquiry
and decision, and that this right is not defeated or affected

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

by a subsequent mineral discovery. Californiav. Poley, 4
Copp's L. 0. 18; Abraham L. Minor, 9 L. D. 408; Rice
v. California,24 L. D. 14; United States v. Morrison, 240
U. S. 192, 207; United States v. Sweet, 245 U. S. 563, 572.
And as respects cash entries and entries under the preemption, homestead, desert land and kindred 'laws the
Land Department always has ruled that if, when. the
claimant has done all that he is required to do to entitle
him to receive the title, the land is not known to be
mineral he acquires a vested right which no subsequent
discovery of mineral will divest or disturb. Harnish v.
Walace, 13'L. -D. 108; Rea Y. Stephenson, 15 L. Di 37;
Reid v. Lavallee, 26 L. D. 100, 102; Aspen Consolidated
Mining Co. v. Williams, 27 L. D. 1, 17; Diamond Coal &
Coke Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 236, 240. And this
rule has been applied by that department, although not
uniformly, to selections made in lieu of relinquished lands
in public reservations. Thus in Kern Oil Co. v. Clarke, 30
L. D. 550, where a lieu selection under the Act of June 4,
1897, c. 2, 30 Stat. 36, was under consideration, the
Secretary of the Interior said, p. 556: "When do rightsunder the selection become vested? In the disposition of
the public lands of the United States, under the laws relating thereto, it is settled law: (1) That when a party has
complied with all the terms and conditions necessary to the
securing of title to a particular tract of land, he acquires a
vested-interest therein, is regarded as the equitable ov, .ier
thereof, and thereafter the government holds the legal
title in trust for him; (2) that the right to a patent once
vested, is, for most purposes, equivalent to a patent issued,
and when in fact- issued, the patent relates back to the
time when the right to it became fixed; and (3) that the
conditions with respect to the state or character cf the
land, as they exist at the time when all the necessaryrequirements have been complied with by a person seeking
title, determine the question whether the land is subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

sale or other disposal, and no change in such conditions,
subsequently occurring can impair or in any manner affect
his rights." Again, p. 560: "These established principles,
in the opinion of the Department, are applicable to selections under the act of June 4, 1897. The act clearly
contemplates an exchange of equivalents. Such is the unmistakable import of its terms. In the case of -the relinquishment of patented lands title is to be given by the government for title received." And again, p. 564: "It would
be strange indeed, if by the latter [1897] act, Congress intended that one who, accepting the government's offer of
exchange, relinquishes a tract to which he has obtained full
title in a forest reservation, and in lieu thereof selects a
tract of land which at the time is vacant and open to settlement, and does all that is required of him to complete the
selection and to perfect the exchange, should thereby
acquire only an inchoate right to the selected tract, liable
to be defeated by subsequent discoveries of mineral at. any
time before patent, or before final action upon the selection
by the land department. Such a construction would not
only tend to defeat the objects for which the act was
passed, by discouraging owners of lands in forest reservations from giving up their titles, but would beagainst. both
the letter and spirit of the act. Parties would be slow
indeed to relinquish their complete titles if it were once
understood that they could obtain only doubtful or contingent rights in return for them. It could not have been
the intention of Congress that parties accepting the
government's offer of exchange should be embarrassed by
any such conditions of doubt and uncertainty."
That view was repeated and applied in many .other
departmental decisions dealing with lieu selecti6hs) But
afterwards the Secretary, conceiving that the decisions bf
this court in Wisconsin: Central R. R. Co. v. Pice Pounty,
133 U. S. 496, and Cgsmos Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle
Oil Co., 190 U. S. 301, justified him in so doing, ruled that

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

no right attached under such a selection unless and until
it was approved by him and therefore that, even though
the selection was awfully made, he possessed a discretion
to reject it and give effect to an intervening change in conditions, as where'a new claimant settled upon the land or
sought to make entry of it while the selection was pending.
Under this changed ruling the Secretary rejected several
selections lawfully made by one Daniels and awarded and
patented the land to others. Daniels then brought suits
against the patentees charging that by the selections he
acquired the equitable title, that his selections were rejected and the patents issued through a misapprehension
of the law, and therefore that the patentees took the legal
title in trust for him. Ultimately the suits came to this
court, and after a full review the changed ruling of the
Secretary was disapproved and Daniels' contention sustained. Daniels v. Wagner, 237 U. S. 547. The substance
of the decision was that as the-selections were lawful when
made "it was the plain duty" of the Secretary to approve
them; that the contrary view found .no justification in
Cosmos Exploration Co. v. Gray Eagle Oil Co., supra; and
that the real authority and duty of the Secretary in dealing with such selections were pointed out in Weyerhaeuser
v. Hoyt, 219 U. S.380, 387-388, where it was said: "The requirement of approval by the Secretary consequently
imposed on that official the duty of determining whether
the selections were lawful at the time they were made,
which is inconsistent with the theory that any one could
appropriate the selected land pending action of the
Secretary. The scope of the power to 'approve,'lists of
selections conferred on the Secretary iwas clearly pointed
out in Wisconsin Central Railroad v,Price, 133 U. S. 496,
511, where it was said that the power to approve was
judicial in its nature. Possessing 'that attribute - the
authority therefore involved not only the power b~t
implied the duty to determine the lawfulness of the selec-

504

OCTOBER TERM, l920.
Opinion of the C~urt.

255 U. S.

tions as of the time when the exertion of the authority was
invoked by the lawful fiing of the list of selections."
As the Circuit Court of Appeals in the present case, like
the Secretary in the other, regarded the decisions in the
Wisconsin Central Case and the Cosmos-Case as showing
that no' right attaches under a lieu selection unless and
until approved by the Secretary, it is well to point out just
what was involved in those cases; for it then will be
apparent that there was no purpose m either to go to the
length suggested,
The Wisconsin Central Case was a suit to enjoin the
collection of a tax levied on land which at the time was
covered by a pending.indemnity selection under a railroad
land grant. The Commissioner of the Generil Land Office
had reported that- the company already had received
indemnity lands largely in excess of the losses for which it
was entitled to indemnity, and the company was disputing
that report. Until that controversy was determined it
could not be known whether the company was entitled to
an approval of the selection. In that situation the United
States had such an interest in the land as made it nontaxable. Whether the-selection was valid or otherwise was
primarily a question for the Secretary of the Interior to
determine. Ultimately he held it valid, but not until after
the tax was levied-indeed, after the suit was brought.
The suit involved the validity of the tax, and nothing
more. Its purpose was'not to control the action of the
Secretary by a writ of mandamus or injunction,'nor to
determine the title as between the United States and the
company or between the company and a grantee of the
United States. True, the court, after commenting on
the difference between the granted lands in place and the
indemnity lands as respects the mode of identification,
very broadly stated that an indemnity selection to be
effective required the approval of the Secretary; but it was
not meant by this that the Secretary arbitrarily could

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
489.

505

Opinion of the Court.

defeat the right of. selection by withholding his approval,
nor that if through a mistake of law he rejected a selection
which was valid- at the time it was made the company
would be remediless. There was no occasion to consider
those questions, nor could they properly be determined
without the presence of parties not'then before the court.
And that the court did not intend its words to be taken so
broadly is illustrated by the fact that it cited with approval
the case of St. Paul & Sioux City R. R. Co. v. Winona &
St. Peter R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 720, 733, wherein an indemnity selection lawfully made, but disapproved by .the
Secretary, was sustained against an adverse certification
on the ground that "this erroneous decision of his" did
not deprive the selector "of rights which became vested by
its selection of those lands."
The Cosmos Case was a suit by a lieu land selector to establish his title as against others who were claiming under
placer mining locations. The selection was not accompanied by proof -that the land was not then occupied adversely, although that was required. Within the time
prescribed by the regulations the mining claimants filed
in the land office verified protests assailing the regularity
and validity of the selection, setting up locations of the
selected land made under the placer mining law prior to
the selection and alleging that the lands "were not subject
to selection" because "the same was mineral land and was
included within" the mining locations. The protests were
entertained and, with the selection, were pending when the
suit was begun, which was shortly after the protests were
filed. The suit was brought on the theory that by the
selection the selector acquired "the full, complete and
equitable title" to the selected land, notwithstanding he
had not submitted any proof of non-occupancy, and that
the protests were not such as could be entertained or
investigated by the Land Department. That case and
another (Riverside Oil Co. v. Hitchcock, 190 U. S.316),

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

wherein a writ of mrndamus was ,sought against the
.Secretary by another. lieu land selector, were heard and
disposed of as related cases, And the decision in one should
be read in connection with that in the other. The full
substance of the decision in the Cosmos Case is in the
following excerpt from the opinion, 190 U. S. 315: "Concluding, as we do, that the question whether the complainant has ever made a proper selection of land in lieu of the
land relinquished, has never been decided by the Land
Department, but is still properly before !hat department,
the courts cannot take jurisdiction and proceed to decide
such question themselves. The Government has provided
a special tribunal for the decision of such a question arising
out of the administration of its public land laws, and that
jurisdiction cannot be taken away from it by the courts.
United States v. Schurz, 102 U. S. 378, 395. The bill is not
based upon any alleged power of the court to prevent the
taking out of mineral from the land, pending the decision
of the Land Department upon the rights of the complainant, and the court has not been asked by any averments in
the bill or in the prayer for relief to consider that qhiestion.
For the reasons stated, we think the bill does not state
sufficient facts upon which to base the relief asked for, and
that the defendants' demurrer to the same was properly
sustained." There are gen6ral expressions in the opinion,
which separated from the rest, might be taken as declaring
- that no right vests under a lieu: selection unless the Secretary approves it; but that such a ruling was intended is
refuted by the opinion as a whole, and particularly by the
statements therein that the power, of the Secretary is not
to be exercised arbitrarily and that his "decision of any
legal question would not, of -course, be binding on the
courts" should the question properly arise in future
litigation. The general expressions were relied upon in
Daniels v. Wagner, as interpretative of the decision and
this court answered, "But we are of opinion that this

WYOMING v. UNITED STATES.
-489.

Opinion of the Court.

interpretation of the Cosmos Case cannot be justified."
Besides, it was adjudged in the Daniels Case that a lieu
selection which is lawful at the time it is made does invest
the selector with equitable rights which he may enforce in
an appropriate way where the Secretary through an error
of law rejeots the selection. And that ruling was reaffirmed and applied in Payne v. Central Pacific Ry. Co.,
ante, 228; and Payn, '. Vew Mexico, ante, 367.
The only exception to the general rule before stated
respecting the time as of which the character of the landwhether mineral or non-mineral-is to be determined is
one which in principle and practice is confined to railroad
land grants. From the beginning the Land Department,
by reason of the terms of those grants and therestrictive
interpretation to which they are subjected,' uniformly
has construed and treated them as requiring that the
character of the land be determined as of the time when
the patent issues. In 1890 Secretary Noble, in declining
to disturb this construction and practice, pointed outthe reasons which had led the Department to make a distinction in this regard between those grants and other
land laws, and said: "This practice, having been uniformly followed and generally, accepted for so long a
time, there should be, in my judgment, the clearest
evidence of error, as well as the strongest reasons of
policy and justice controlling, before a departure from
it should be sanctioned. It has, in effect, become a rule
of property." Central Pacific R. R. Co. V. 'Valentine, 11
L. D. 238, 246. In 1893 the matter came before this
court and the construction and practice of the Land
Department were sustained. Barden v. Northern Pacific
R. R. Co., 154 U. S. 288. As the opinion in that case shows,
the court recognized that the mineral land exception in
•other land laws simply operates to-exclude from sale, etc.,
"land known at the time to be mineral," and was careful
to explain that its decision related to "grants i aid of

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

railroads " and to "no other grants." The grounds on
which the decision was put were, (a) that the railroad
land grants, besides' being confined in the granting clause
to lands "not mineral," contain provisos declaring in
words or effect "that all mineral lands be, and the same
hereby are, excluded from the operation of this " grant;
(b) that such grants, although expressly requiring that
the question whether the lands are otherwise excepted
be determined as of the time the map of definite location
is filed, contain no such provision in respect of the exception of mineral land; (c) that it was well understood
that many years would necessarily elapse between the
filing of the map and the time when by construction of
the road the grantee would be entitled to patents, and
as the grants covered great areas, in one instance nearly
equal to that of Ohio and New York, it hardly could
have been intended to arrest mineral development in
those areas in the meantiine; (d), that such grants "must
be strictly construed," and "if they admit of different
.meanirgs, one of extension and one of limitation, they
must be accepted in a sense favorable to the grantor;"
and (e) that the long prevailing construction and practice
of the Land Department ought not to be disturbed.
Plainly the decision in that case is without bearing here;
save as it recognizes that rights under other land laws
are to be tested by a different rule. And this is emphasized by the fact that in Shaw v. Kellogg, supra, where
the selection of Baca Tract No. 4 was involved, the court
distinguished the Barden Case, and applied the general
rule before stated. And it is of further significance that
this court has recognized that the legislation of Congress
designed to aid the common schools 'of the States is to be
construed liberally rather than restrictively. Beecher v.
Wetherby, 95 U. S. 517, 526; Johanson v. Washington, 190
U. S. 179, 183.
Of the executive withdrawal of the land two years after

MERCHANTS' L. & T. CO. v. SMIETANKA.
489.

509

Syllabus.

the lieu selection was lawfully made, it suffices to say,,
following the recent decision in Payne v. Central Pacific
Ry. Co., ante, 228, that the Act of. 1910, under which
the withdrawal was made, is confined to "public lands,"
that by the-selection this land had ceased to be public,
and that the act could not be construed to embrace it
without working an inadmissible interference with vested
rights.
It- results that the Secretary erred in matter of law in
rejecting the selection and that the District Court rightly
entered a decree for the defendants. See Cornelius v.
Kessel, 128 U. S. 456, 461; United States v. Detroit Timber
& Lumber Co., 200 U. S. 321, 338. The decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly
Reversed.

MERCHANTS' LOAN & TRUST COMPANY,
TRUSTEE OF ESTATE OF RYERSON, v. SMIETANKA, FORMERLY UNITED STATES COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE FOR THE
FIRST DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
ERROR TOTHE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 608.

Argued January 11, 12, 1921.-Decided March 28, 1921.

1. A provision in a will creating a trust that accretions of selling value
shall be considered principal and not income, can not render them

non-taxable under the income tax law. P. 516.
2. A trustee, invested by will with full dominion over an estate,*in
trust to pay the net income .to the testator's widow for life, and
afterwards to, use it for the beiefit df his cthildren and to pay over

their shares as they reached a certain age, -sold certain colporate
stock, part of the'original assets, for a price ireater than their cash

