UNION PAC. It. R. CO. v. BURKE.
313.

317

Statement of the Case.

by the Government itself. The petition should have been
granted, but it having been denied the motion should, have
been sustained.
The contention that the constitutional rights of defendant, were waived when his wife admitted to his home the'
Government officers, who came, without warrant, demanding admission to make search of it under Government
authority, cannot be entertained. We need not consider
whether -it is possible for a wife, in the absence of her husband, -thus to waive his constitutional rights, for it is perfectly clear that under the implied coercion here presented,
no such waiver was intended or effected.
It results that the judgment of the District Court must
be reversed and the case remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.

UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v. BURKE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK.'
No. 183. Argued January 27, 1921.--Decided February 28, 1921.
An agreement between an interstate railroad company and a shipper
to limit the carrier's liability upon an interstate shipment -to a
valuation stated in the bill of lading, will not relieve the carrier of
its common-law obligation to pay the actual value in case of loss
by its negligence if its schedules, filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, provide but one rate applicable to the shipment.
P. 321. Reid v:.American Express Co., 241 U. S. 544, distinguished.
178 App. Div. 783; 226 N. Y. 534, affirmed.

THIS case was submitted, in the first instance, to the
Supreme Court of New York, Appellate Division, .and

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

decided in favor of the defendant, the railroad company.
The Court of Appeals of the State reversed the decision
and directed the entry of the judgment for the plaintiff,
which is here reviewed by certiorari-and affirmed. The
case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Oscar R. Houston, with whom Mr. D. Roger Englar
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Arthur W. Clement, with whom Mr. Wilson E.
Tipple was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 10, 1915, S. Ontra & Brother delivered to
the Pacific Mail Steamship Company at Yokohama,
Japan, 56 cases of "Drawn work goods and Renaissance,"
consigned to their own order at New York, and received
a bill of lading for ocean transportation to San Francisco
and thence by the Southern Pacific Company and its
connections, by rail, to destination. r The property was
delivered to the Southern Pacific Company and without
new billing was carried to a junction with the line of the
petitioner, the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and
while in its custody was totally destroyed in a collision.
The respondent, successor in interest to the consignor,
claimed in this suit the right to recover the fair invoice
value of the goods, $17,549.01, and the pAitioner conceded his right to recover, but only to the amount of the
agreed valuation of $100 per package, $5,600, to which
it contended he was limited by the bill of lading. All of
the facts are stipulated or proved by undisputed evidence.
The Appell~te Division-First Department New York
Supreme Court-rendered judgment in favor of reSpoident for $5,600, with interest and costs, but oil appeal to the
Court of Appeals of that State the judgment of the Appellate Division was reversed and an order was entered that

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. v. BURKE.
317.

Opinion of the Court.

a judgment should be rendered by the Supreme Court in
favor of respondent for $17,549.01, with interest and costs.
The case is brought here on certiorari.
On the face of the bill of lading received at Yokohama
was the notation:" We6ight 26,404 lbs.; Ocean weight rate,
50, Freight $132.02. Rail, minimum carload weight
30,000 lbs., wgt. rate $1.25, Freight $375.00." (Thus 'he
ocean and rail rates are separately stated, and the latter is
$1.25 per 100 lbs., minimum carload.) On the back of the
bill of. ladiig were printed thirty-one conditions, the
thirteenth of which contained the provision that, "It is
expressly agreed that the goods named in this bill of
lading are hereby valued at not exceeding $100.00 per
package

.

.

and the liability of the Companies

therefor, in case of the total loss of all-or any of the said
goods: from any cause, shall not exceed $100.00 per
package."
The petitioner was an interstate common carrier by rail
at the time of the shipment'involved and as such had filed
with the Interstate' Commerce Commission schedules of
rates and regulations under which the property was movinoat the time it was destroyed. By these schedules the
carrier was bound, and to them it was limited, in contracting for traffic. Soutiern Ry. Co. v. Prcscott, 240 U. S. 632,
.638. The statute expressly provided that it ,hould not
charge or demand or collect or receive a greater or less or
different compensation for the transportation of property or
for any service in connection therewith than' such as was
specified in such schedules. (34 Stat. 587, ยง 6.)
In these schedules was included a rule, designated as
Rule 9A, which'reads: "Unless otherwise provided, -when'
propertyis transportedsubject to.the provisions of theWestern Classification, the acceptance and use are, required, re.spectively, of the 'Uniform Bill of Lading,' 'Straight' or
'Order' as shown on pages 87-to 90, inclusive."
For the purposes of this case, only, it is admitted, and

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

accepted by this court, that this rule 9A permitted and
required that the property should be treated as moving
east of San Francisco under the Uniform Bill of Lading, although, in fact, no other than the Yokohama bill of lading
was issued. This Uniform Bill of Lading contained,
among other conditions, the following: "The amount of any
loss or damage for which any carrieris liable shall be computed on the basis of the value of the property (being the
bona-fide invoice price, if any, to the consignee, including
the freight charges, if prepaid) at the place and time of
shipment under this bill of lading, unless a lower valuehas
been represented in writing by the shipper or has been
agreed upon or is determined by the classification or tariffs
upon which the rate is based, in any of which events such
lower value shall be the maximum amount to govern such
computation whether or not such loss or damage occurs
from negligence."
Upon the facts thus stated the petitioner contends that
the agreed valuation of $100 per package or case in the
Yokohama bill of lading is necessarily imported into the
Uniform Bill of Lading, becomes the valuation "agreed
upon" within the terms and conditions quoted from that
bill, and limits the respondent's recovery to that amount,
$5,600, i'egardless of the value of the property and of the
fact that it was lost by the carrier's negligence.
To this contention it is replied by the respondent: that
it is admitted by the petitioner that its filed and published
schedules contained but one rate applicable to the shipment as it was carried east of San Francisco; that that rate,
$1.25 per 100 pounds minimum carload, was charged in the
Yokohama bill of lading; and that, since no choice of rates
was given, or could be given, to the shipper, any agree,ment, in form a valuation of the property, made for the
purpose of limiting the carrier's liability to less than the
real value thereof, in case of loss by. negligence, was void
and without effect.

UNION PAC. R. R. CO. v. BURKE.
317.

Opinion of the Court.

In many cases, from the decision in Hart v. Pennylvania R. R; Co., 112 U. S. 331, decided in 1884, to Boston &
Maine R. R. v. Piper, 246 U. S. 439, decided in 1918, it
has been declared to be the settled federal law that if a
common carrier gives to a shipper the choice of two rates,
the lower of them conditioned upon his agreeing to a
stipulated valuation of his property in case of loss, even by
the carrier's negligence, if the shipper makes such a choice,
understandingly and freely, and names his valuation, he
cannot thereafter recover more than the value which he
thus places upon his property.
As a matter of legal distinction, estoppel is made the
basis of this ruling-that, having accepted the benefit of
the lower rate, in common honesty the shipper may not
repudiate the conditions on which it was obtained-but the
rule and the effect of itare clearly established.
The petitioner admits all this, but contends that it has
never been held by this court that such choice of rates was
essential' to the validity of valuation agreements, and,
arguing that they should be sustained unless shown to
have been fraudulently or oppressively obtained, it affirms
the validity of the agreement in the Yokohama bill of
lading, and cites as a decisive authority Reid v. American
Express Co., 241-U. S. 544.
With this contention we cannot agree.
This court has consistently held the law to be that it is
against public policy to permit a common carrier to limit
its common-law liability by contracting for exemption
from the consequences of its own negligence or that.of its
servants (112 U. S. 331, 338 and 246 U. S. 439,444, supra),
and valuation agreements have been sustained 'only on.
principles of estoppel and in carefully restricted cases
where choice of rates was given--where" the rate was tied
to the release." Thus, in the'HartCase (p. 343),.it is said:
"The distinct ground of our decision in the case at bar is,
that where a contract'of the kind, signed by the shipper, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

fairly made, agreeing on the valuation of the property
carried, with the rate of freight based on the condition
that the carrier assumes liability only to the extent of
the agreed valuation, even in case of loss or damage by
the negligence of the carrier, the contract will be upheld
as a proper and lawful mode of securmig a due proportion. between the amount for which the carrier may be
responsible and the freight he receives, and of protecting himself against extravagant and fanciful valuations."And in the Piper Case it is said (p. 444): "In the previous decisions of this court upon the subject it has been
said that the limited valuation for which a recovery may
be had does not permit the carrier to defeat recoyery because of losses arising from its own negligence, but serves to
fix the amount of recovery upon an agreed valuation made
in consideration of the lower rate stipulated to be paid
for the service.h
The Reid Case, supra, does not conflict with -these decisions, for in that case the bill of lading containing the
undervaluation, which was there sustained, expressly recited that the freight was adjusted on the basis of the
agreed' value and that the carrier's liability should not
exceed that sum "unless a value in excess thereof be
.specially declared, and stated herein, and extra freight as
may be agreed on paid." The bill of lading was for ocean
carriage only, London to New York, to which, of course,
thc Interstate Commerce Act was not applicable, (36 Stat.
544, ยง 1; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S.
56: 78; Cosmopolitan Shipping Co. v. Hamburg-American
Pocket Co., 13 I. C. C. 266) and the carrier, therefore,
was in a position to tender to, and, by the quoted provision
of the bill, did tender to, the shipper the choice of paying a
higher rate qnd being subject to less restricted recovery in
case of loss. The case Was plainly within the scope of the
prior decisions of this court upon the subject.
Thus this valuation rule, where choige ii given to and ao-

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL CO.
317.

323

,Syllabus.

cepoted by a shipper, is, in effect, ap exception to the common-law rule of liability of common carriers, and the latter
rule remains in full effect as to all cases not falling within
the scope of such exception. Having but one app'ricable
published rate east of San Francisco the petitioner did not
give, and could not lawfully have given, the shipper a
choice of rates, and therefore'the stipulation of value in the
Yokohama bill of lading, even if treated as imported into
the Uniform Bill of Lading, cannot bring the case within
the valuation exception, and the carrier's liability must be
determined by the rules of the common law. To allow the
contention of the petitioner, would permit carriers to
contract for partial exemption from the results of their own
negligence without giving to shippers any compensating
privilege. Obviously such agreements could be made, only
with the ;gnorant, the unwary br with persons deliberately
deceived. It results that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State of New York, entered upon the order ofthe Court of Appeals of that State, must be
A firrrned.

UNITED STATES v. DIAMOND COAL & -COKE
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.,
No. 87. Argued November 11, 1920.-Decided March 7, 1921.
1. The Government has no equity to maintain a suit to set aside a
fraudulently procured land patent, after the expiration of the statutory period of limitation, upon the ground that the fraud was concealed, (Exploration Co. v. United States, 247 U. S. 435), if it has
been guilty of laches in discovering the fraud. P. 333.
2. In a suit by the Government to annul coal land patents, outstand-

