WINTON v. AMOS.
367.

Syllabus.

equitable right in the base tract as prevented a condemnation of the tract as the property of the State. The state
court held the waiver and selection of no effect and this
court reversed that decision.
We conclude that an injunction was rightly awarded,
but that it Will be better suited to the occasion if it be confined \ to directing a disposal of the selection in regular
course unaffected by the elimination of the base tract from
the reservation. With this modification the decree is
Affirmed.

WINTON, ADMINISTRATOR OF WINTON, ET AL.
v. AMOS AND OTHERS, KNOWN AS THE MISSISSIPPI CHOCTAWS.
BOUNDS, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT FOR BOUNDS, v.
SAME.
LONDON v. SAME.
FIELD ET AL. v. SAME.
BECKHAM v. SAME.
VERNON t,. SAME.

HOWE,' EXECUTRiX OF HOWE v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Nos. 6-12. Argued January 14, 15, 19i9: restored to docket for rpargument January 5, 1920; reargued April 21, 22, 1920.-D-Iecided
March 7, 1921.
1. The acts authorizing these suits against Mississippi Choctaws
(April 26, 1906, c. 1876, § 9, 34 Stat. 140; May 29, 1908, c. 216,
§ 27, 35 Stat. 457), contemplate not ar action in rersonam tn ea-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

tablish personal liability against individual Indians, or a group of
them, but an equitable class suit against those who, by successfully asserting citizenship in the Choctaw Nation, acquired allotments out of the tribal land and participation in funds held in trust
by the United States, to impose an equitable charge upon their
lands and interests, so acquired, for a reasonable and proportionate
contribution towards the value of the services rendered and expenses incurred by the claimants in securing such lands and interests
for the class. Pp. 375, 391, 397.
2. The acts, in treating the Indians affected as a class, and in providing for their representation by the Governor of the Choctaw
Nation for the purpose of receiving notice of the suit and by the
Attorney General of the United States for the purpose of appearing
and defending it, and in omitting to make the United States a party,
are within the constitutional authority of Congress over tribal
Indians and their property, and do not deprive the Indians of their
property in violation of the Fifth Amendment, although they are
citizens. P. 392.
3. For proper professional services rendered and expenses incured
in successfully promoting legislation to rescue substantial property
interests of a class of beneficiaries under a trust of a public nature,
it is equitable to impose a charge for reimbursement and compensation upon the interests so secured, the same as if a like result had
been reached through litigation in the courts. P. 392.
4. Where such services, enuring to the benefit of a class, are performed
under expiess contracts with some of its members, the party performing them may exact cGmpensation from such ind.viduals
directly, under the express contracts if they are valid or under
implied contracts if they are not, (in which case they would have
contribution from their co-beneficiaries,) or, in avoidance of circuity of action, he may waive his rights under the contracts and
proceed against all the beneficiaries directly. P. 393.
5. To sustain such an equitable charge, the services rendered must
have been substantially instrumental in producing a result beneficial
to the class upon whose interests it is to be imposed. P. 394.
6. Where the acts performed by certain claimants in behalf of a class
of Mississippi Choctaws were in part such as to assist in procuring
the legishiive ind administrative measures which secured theirproperty interests, and in part apparently of the opposite tendency,
so that the effect of the service as a whole was in doubt, hel, that
the Court of Claims should not have limited its findingsto what
the clainrnts did, but should have found specifically on whether

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

375

Opinion of the Court.

the service was of benefit, and if so, what compensation was equitably
and justly due on the principle of quantum meruit. P. 395.
7. When requests under Rules 90-95 for additional findings are not
filed within the prescribed 60 days after judgment, the Court of
Claims has a discretion to reject them upon that ground, but when
it rejects them for other reasons evincing a misconception of the
case and of the significance of the requested findings, it will not be
assumed that they would have been rejected upon the ground of
delay if the misconception had not existed. P. 395.
No. 6. Reversed.
Nos. 7-12. Affirmed.

THE cases are stated in the opinion. The decisions of
the Court of Claims are reported in 51 Ct. Chrs. 284; 52
id. 90.
Mr. William W. Scott, for appellants in No. 6.
Mr. Guion Miller for appellants in Nos. 7-12.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis for appellees. 1
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.

Thcse are appeais from a judgment of the Court of
Claims rejecting claims for alleged services rendered and
expenses incurred in the matter of the claims of the
Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the C4hoctaw
Nation. The decision of the Court of Claims is reported in
51 Ct. Clms. 284. In the Winton case (No. 6), a request

for additional findings, equivalent to an application for
rehearing, was denied, 52 Ct. Clms. 90. The appeals were
taken under § 182, Jud. Code.
The jurisdiction of the court below arose under an Act
of April 26, 1906, ! 1876, § 9, 34 Stat. 137, 140, and an
At the first heariug the case w:'.s argued by Mr"Assistant Attorney
General Twmpson. Mr. Solicitor General King and Mr. George M.

Anderson were also on the briefs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

amendatory provision in the Act of May 29, 1908, c. 216,
§ 27, 35 Stat. 444, 457. The former provided: "That the
Court of Claims is hereby authorized and directed to hear,
consider and adjudicate the claims against the Mississippi
Choctaws of the estate of Charles F. Winton, deceased, his
associates and assigns, for sci vices rendered and expenses
incurred in the mater of the claims of the Mississippi
Choctaws to citizenship ii the .Choctaw Nation, and to
render judgment thereon on the principle of quantum
meruit, in such amount or amounts as may appear equitable or justly due therefor, which judgment, if any, shall
be paid from any funds now c.r hereafter due such Choctaws by the United States. Noti ce of such suit shall be
served on the governor of the Choctaw Nation, and the
Attorney-General shall appear and defend the said suit on
behalf of said Choctaws."
The original petition was filed October 11, 1906, by
*Wirt K. Winton, one of the heirs-at-law of Charles F.
Winton, in behalf of himself and the other heirs and also
in behalf of the associates and 'assigns of Charles F. Winton. Thereafter it was provided by the amendatory act
that the court be authorized and directed to hear, consider, and adjudicate claims of like character on the part
of William N. Vernon, J. S. Bounds, and Chester Howe,
their associates or assigns, and render judgment on the
same principle of quantum meruit; the judgment, if any, to
be paid from "any funds now or hereafter due such Choctaws as individuals by the United States"; Vernon,
Bounds, and Howe were authorized to intervene in the
pending suit of the estate of Winton,- and it was "provided
further, That the lands allotted to the said Mississippi
Choctaws are.hereby declared subject to a ien to the extent of -the claims of the said Winton and of the other
plaintiffs authoriyed by Congress to sue the said defendants, subject to the final judgment of the Court of Claims
in the said case. Notice cif such suit or intervention shall.

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

be served on the governor of the Choctaw Nation, and the
Attorney-General shall appear and defend the said suit on
behalf of the said Choctaws."
Thereafter a second amended petition was filed by Wirt
K. Winton, as administrator of the estate of Charles F.
Winton, deceased, in behalf of the estate of Winton and
also of Winton's associates and assigns. In this petition
James K. Jones, administrator of James K. Jones, deceased. and Robert L. Owen, in his own behalf, joined.
Intervening petitions were filed by William N. Vernon;
Chester Howe, who died pending suit and in whose place
his administratrix, Katie A. Howe, was substituted; and
several others.
As shown-by the findings the claim of Winton and associates arose, as follows: By Article 3 of the Treaty of
September 27, 1830 (7 Stat. 333), known as the Treaty of
Dancing Rabbit Creek, the Choctaw Nation of Indians
ceded to the United States the entire country possessed by
them east of the Mississippi River, and agreed to remove
beyond the Mississippi during the three years next
succeeding. But, in view of the fact that some of the
Choctaws preferred not to move, it was provided in
Article 14 that each head of a family who desired to remain and become a citizen of the States should be permitted to do so, and should thereupon be entitled to a
reservation of one section of land, with an additional half
section for each unmarried child living with him over ten
years of age, and a quarter section for each child under
ten. If they resided upon said lands intending to become
citizens of the States for five years after the ratification of
the treaty, a grant in fee simple should issue; and it was
further provided: "Persons who claim under this article
shallnot lose the privilege of a Choctaw citizen,but if they
ever remove are not to be entitled to any portion of the
Choctaw annuity." By another article (19) reservations
were provided for certain pronfinent Cboctaws
by name

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

and for limited numbers of heads of families and captains.
The mixed-blood Choctaws who elected to remain in
Mississippi were provided for under Article 19, while the
full bloods who remained and elected to become citizens
of the State were provided for under Article 14; hence,
full-blood Mississippi Choctaws have always been called
"Fourteenth Article Claimants." Choctaws who remained in Mississippi under that article adopted the dress,
habits, customs, and manner of living of the white citizens
of the State. They had no tribal or band organization or
laws of their own, but were subject to the laws of the
State. They did-not live upon dny reservation, nor did the
Government exercise supervision or control over them.
No funds were appropriated for their support, though
much land was given to them. Neither the Indian Office
nor the Departm.ent of the Interior assumed or exercised
jurisdiction over them, and they never recognized them
either individually or as bands, but regarded them as
citizens of the State of Mississippi, and the Department
held it had no authority to approve contracts made with
them.
Pending the negotiation of the treaty, the Legislature
of the State of Mississippi passed anu Act, January 19, 1830,
abolishing the tribal customs of Indians not recognized by
the common law or the law of the State, making them
citizens of the State, with the same rights, immunities, and
privileges as free white persons, extending over them the
laws of the State, validating tribal marriages, and abolishing the tribal offices and posts of power. Recognition of
their citizenship was, afterwards embodied in the state
constitution.
The right of the Fourteenth Article Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the parent tribe appears to have been
recognized at one time by the Choctaw Nation west, which
had rein ,ved to Indian Territory pursuant to the treaty.

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

.

79

Opinion of the Court.

On December 24, 1889, the Nation, through its legislature,
memorialized Congress, reciting that there were- "large
numbers of Choctaws yet in the States of Mississippi and
Louisiana .who are entitled to all the rights and privileges
of citizenship in the Choctaw Nation," and. requesting
the United States Government to make provision for the
emigratiou of these Choctaws -from said States to the
Choctaw Nation. In 1891 a commission wag provided for
and funds appropriated by the Choctaw Council for the
removal and subsistence of Mississippi Choctaws to the
Nation, and during that year 181 were removed and admitted to citizenship.
By Act of March 3, 1893, c. 209, § 1.6, 27 Stat. 612, 645,
Congress created the Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes,, familiarly known as the Dawes Commission, with
the object of procuring through negotiation the extinguishment of the national or tribal title to the lands of those
tribes in the Indian Territory, either by their cession to the
United States or allotment in severalty among the Indians,
with a view to the ultimate creation of a State. By Act
of June 10, 1896, c. 398, 29 Stat. 321, 339-340, the Commission was directed to make a complete roll of citizenship
of each of the Five Civilized Tribes, and applicants for
enrollment were to make application to the Commission
within three months from the passage of the act and have
the right of appeal from its decision to the "United-States
District Court" -(construed by this court, in Stephens v.
Cherokee Nation, -174 U. S. 445, 476-477, to mean the
United States Court in the Indian Territory).
At this time the full-blood Mississippi Choctaws were
extremely poor, livingjn insanitary conditions and working at manual labor for daily wages. Their children were
not permitted to attend schools provided for the whites,
and they were denied all social and political privileges. As
already appears, they were receiving neither care nor
attention from the Indian Office or the Department of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Interior; and they were so far overlooked by the Dawes
Commission that the time limited by the act just mentioned expired without their being included in the enrollment.
The activities of Winton and associates for which recovery is asked date from this point. Soon after the passage of
the Act of June 10, 1896, Messrs. Owen and Winton
entered into an agreement under which the latter was to
proceed to Mississippi and procure contracts with such
Indians as might be entitled to participate in any distribution of lands or moneys of the Choctaw and Chickasaw
Nations, arranging to secure evidence, powers of attorney,
and contracts, as prescribed by Mr. Owen; Owen was to
prepare the necessary forms and represent the claims of
the Indians before the proper officers of the United States
or Indian Governments, with the assistance and cooperation of Winton; Winton to receive one-half of the net proceeds of the contracts. A supplementary agreement between the same parties provided in terms that Owen
should have a half interest in the contracts, and in the
event of accident to Winton should take them up as
attorney in Winton'§ place. Immediately thereafter
Winton proceeded to Mississippi, and during the year
1896 and the years following procured approximately
1,000 contracts with full-blood Mississippi Choctaws,
some in the name of Winton, some in the name of Owen,
by the terms of which Winton and Owen agreed to use
their best efforts to secure the rights of citizenship for said
Mississippi Choctaws, as members of the Choctaw Nation,
in the lands and funds of said tribe, for a fee of one-half the
net interest of each allottee in any allotment thereafter
secured. These contracts were subsequently abandoned
by Owen and Winton because void and unenforceable
under the Acts of June 28, 1898, and May 31, 1900, referred to below, and new contracts were thereafter taken,
principally in the name of Charles S. Daley, but in behalf

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

of Owen and Winton, with whom Daley was associated.
These contracts recognized the previous seivices of Winton
and- associates as beneficial to the Indians, employed
Daley and associates, including Winton and associates, as
attorneys to look out for, protect, defend, and secure the
interest of the Indians in the lands in Indian Territory to
which they might be entitled as Mississippi Choctaws or as
members of the Choctaw Nation, and to procure the recognition of their rights in said lands and in and to any funds
arising from the Choctaw-Chickasaw lands, and provided
that as compensation for all services rendered and to be
rendered the attorneys should receive a sum of money
equal to one-half of the value of the net recovery, based
upon the actual value of the lands recovered. They seem
to have contained other provisions looking to the sale or
encumbrance, in part at least, of the lands secured for the
Indians. The validity of these contracts has not been
discussed..
Early in 1897 Mr. -Owen spoke to Hon. John Sharp
Williams, then Representative in Congress from the
Fifth -Congressional District of Mississippi, wherein
practically all full-blood Mississippi Choctaws resided,
calling his attention to the possible rights of such Choctaws to participate in the partition of the lands of the
Choctaw Nation, at the same time submitting to him a
copy of the Dancing Rabbit Creek Treaty, and calling
his attention to Article 14. This was the first time the
matter had been-called to the attention of Mr. Williams.
Thereafter, and until March 4, 1903, when he ceased to
represent that District, he.was active in all-matters of
legislation concerning the Mississippi Choctaws.
In December, 1896, Winton presented to Congress a
memorial in behalf of Jack Amos and other full-blood
Mississippi Choctaws asking that their rights under
Article 14 of the Treaty of 1830 be accorded to them,
and that they be providedlfr by enrollment either by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

Dawes Commission or by a special agent under the direction of the Coninissioner of Indian Affairs. In January, 1897, a second memorial in behalf of Jack Amos and
246 other full-blood Mississippi Choctaws being heads
of families was presented to Congress through Winton,
asking that they be enrolled so as to participate in the
proposed allotment of Choctaw lands in Indian Territory; and setting up that by the true construction, of
Article 14 of the Treaty of 1830, when viewed in connection with other treaties and laws and the history of
the Choctaw Tribe, the Mississippi Choctaws were entitled to remain in Mississippi as United States citizens
and still retain the rights of a Choctaw citizen, except as
to a participation in the annuity.
In September, 1897, Winton presented a third memorial
of like purport to the Secretary of the Interior.
Prior to the presentation of the first of these memorials,
and in September or October, 1896, Mr. Owen appeared
before the Dawes Commission in behalf of Jack Amos
and 97 other full-blood Choctaws residing in Mississippi,
and. attempted to secure their enrollment under the Act
of June 10, 1896. The Commission refused, on the
ground that they were not resident in the Indian Territory. Owen appealed to the United States Court for
the Central District of Indian Territory, where the ruling
of the Commission was affirmed. This decision was
"indirectly affirme&"by this court on May 15, 1899, in
the case of Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445,
.where it was held that the legislation under which the
judgment was rendered was constitutional, and that
this court was without jurisdiction to review decisions
of the courts of Indian Territory in citizenship cases
except upon the question of the constitutionality or
validity of the legislation.
On February 11, 1897, a resolution drawn up by Mr.
Owen was passed by the Senate, directing the Secretary

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

of the Interior to transmit certain historical data and
information respecting the rights of the Fourteenth
Article claimants. This was referred by the Secretary
to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for reply, and his
reply, containing material supporting the claims of the
Mississippi Choctaws, was transmitted by the Secretary
to the Senate, February 15, 1897 (Senate Doc. 129, 54th
Cong., 2d sess.).
About the same time, Mr. Owen made an argument
before the Committee on Indian Affairs of the House in
support:of House Bill No. 10,372, intended to permit
the Mississippi Choctaws to continue to reside in that
State and still claim the rights of Choctaw citizens.- A
favorable report was made by the Committee, March. 3,
1897 (House Report 3,080, 54th Cong., 2d sess.), but thd
billfnever passed either House.
In the Indian Appropriation Act of June 7, 1897, however, the following provision was contained: "That the
commission aplointed to negotiate with the Five Civilized
Tribes in the Indian Territory shall examine and report
to Congress whether -the Mississippi Ch6ctaws under
their treaties are not entitled to all the rights of Choctaw
citizenship except an interest in the Choctaw annuities"
(c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 83).
Following the passage of this act Mr. Owen appeared
before the Dawes Commission in the interest of the
Mississippi Choctaws with whom he had contracts. On
January 28, 1898, the Commission made a report to
Congress as required by the act last mentioned (House
Doc. 274, 55th Cong., 2d sess.), setting forth in brief the
history of the Mississippi Choctaws and their thei present
condition; and submitting an. elaborate argument in
opposition to the contention that those Choctaws might
Continue their residence and political status in Mississippi
as in the past and still enjoy all the rights of Choctaw
citizenship except to share in the Choctaw annuities;

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
255 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

declaring that in order to avail himself of the privileges
of a Choctaw citizen, any person claiming to be a descendant of those provided for in Article 14 of the Treaty
of 1830 "must first show the fact that he is such descendant, and has in good faith joined his brethren in the
Territory with the intent to become one of the citizens
of the *Nation. Having done so, such person has a right
to be enrolled as a Choctaw citizen and to claim all the
privileges of such a citizen, except to a share in the annuities. And that otherwise he can not claim as a right
the. 'privilege of a Choctaw citizen."' The Commission
further said that, if they were correct in this, still any
person presenting himself claiming the right must be
required by some tribunal to prove the fact that lie was
a descendant of some one of those Indians who originally
availed themselves of and conformed to the requirements
df the Fourteenth Article of the Treaty of 1830. "The
time for making application to this commission to be
enrolled as a Choctaw citizen has expired. It would be
necessary, therefore, to extend by law the time for persons claiming this right to make application and be
heard by this commission, or to create a new tribunal for
that purpose."
On June 28, 1898, Congress passed an act, commonly
known as the Curtis Act, which contained in § 21 provisions for the making of rolls of the Five Civilized Tribes
by the Dawes Commission, and among others the following: "Said commission shall have authority to determine
the identity of Choctaw Indians claiming rights in the
Choctaw lands under article fourteen of the treaty between the United States and the Choctaw Nation coneluded September twenty-seventh, eighteen hundred
and thirty, and to that end they may administer oaths,
examine witnesses, and perform all other acts necessary
thereto and make report to the Secretary of the Interior.
,

,

,

,

•

,

•

,,.

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

I-

385

Opinion of the Court.

"No person shall be enrolled who has not heretofore
removed to and in good faith settled in the nation in which
he claims citizenship: Provided, however, That nothing
contained in this Act shall be so construed as to militate,
against any rights or privileges which the Mississippi
Choctaws may have under the laws of or the treaties
with the United States." (C. 517, 30 Stat.- 495, 503.)
Public notice having been given in Mississippi as to
the times and places at which the Commission would
hear applications for identification under the above
provision, one of the Commissioners,, A. S. McKennon,
proceeded to Mississippi in January, 1899, with a force
of clerks and stenographers and there identified and made
up a schedule of 1923 persons as being Mississippi Choctaws entitled to citizenship in the Choctaw Nation under
Article 14 of the treaty. The principle adopted was that
proof of the fact that a claimant was a full-blood Indian
whose ancestors were living in Mississippi at the date
of the treaty was sufficient evidence to report his name
as a Mississippi Choctaw' under § 21 of the Curtis Act.
This schedule, known as the "McKennon Roll," was
subsequently approved by the Commission, who for-:
warded it with a report dated March 10, 1899, to the
Secretary of the Interior. The schedule never was approved by the Secretary, and was attempted to be withdrawn by the Commission December 20, 1900, errors
having been discovered in it. It was formally disapproved by the Secretary March 1, 1907. The Court of
Claims finds that "the work of Commissioner McKennon,
covering a period of about three weeks, in identifying
and making up said schedule, was interfered with and
retarded by said Charles F. Winton, who endeavored
to prevent the Indians from appearing for identification."
No explanation of this appears. At the same time it is
found that Mr. Owen (who of course was associated with
Winton) -furnished to Commissioner MeKennon -a list

OCTOBER. TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

of 16,000 Choctaw Indians, which aided McKennon in
his official work.
Because of material errors discovered by the Commission in the McKennon roll, another party was organized
and sefit out by the Commission for the purpose of
making a more accurate and complete roll of the Mississippi Choctaws under the Act of 1898, whose hearings
were commenced in Mississippi. in December, 1900, resumed. in April of the following year, and continued until
the latter part of August, 1901.

February 7, 1900, Winton and associates presented a
memorial to Congress praying that the treaty rights of
the Mississippi Choctaws be so construed as to afford
them the rights of Choctaw citizens without removal, or
that they be permitted to have those rights determinedin the courts. Congress took no action upon this.
April 4, 1900, Winton and his associates memorialized
Congress .requesting the following amnendment to the
Indian appropriation act then pending: "Provided, That
any Mississippi Choctaw duly identified and enrolled as
such by the United States, Commission to the Five
Civilized Tribes shall have the right, at any time prior
to the approval of the final rolls of the Mississippi Choctaws by the Secretary of the Interior, to make settlement
within the Choctaw-Chickasaw country, and on proof
of the fact of bona fide settlement they shall be enrolled
by the Secretary of the Interior as Choctaws entitled to
allotment."
The act as passed contained the following: "Providd,
That any Mississippi Choctaw duly identified as such
by the United States Commission to the Five Civilized
Tribes shall have the right, at any time prior to the ap-.
proval of the final rolls of the Choctaws and Chickasawsby the Secretary of the Interior, to make settlement
within the Choctaw-Chickasaw country, and on proof of
the fact o1 bona fide settlement .may be enrolled by such

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

United States Commission and by the Secretary of, the
Interior as Choctaws entitled to allotment: Provided
further, That all contracts or agreements- looking to the
sale or encumbrance in any way of the lands to be allotted to said Mississippi Choctaws shall be null and void.'
(Act of May 31, 1900, c. 598, 31 Stat. 221, 236-237,)
The Dawes Commission thereafter required
from all
applicants for enrollment proof of descent from Choctaw
Indians who remained in Mississippi and received pa~ents
for lands under the Fourteenth Article of the Treaty of
1830. This cbnstituted a reversal of the principle previously adopted in making the McKennon Roll, to wit,
a presumption that the ancestors of full-blood Choctaws
residing in Mississippi had fully complied with the requirements of Article 14. It resulted that only six or seven persons claiming as Mississippi Choctaws were enrolled 'under
the Act of May 31, 1900, although from 6,000 to 8,000 applications were filed in 1900 and the early part of 1901.
On April 1, 1901, the second party, already njentiored,
sent by the Dawes Commission to Mississippi for the purpose of making a complete and accurate roll of Mississippi
Choctaws, resumed hearings at Meridian, Mississippi,
and held continuous sessions there and at other places
in the State until the latter part of August. The Court,
of Claims finds that during these hearings and the making
*ofthis roll the conduct of Winton and associates increased
the work of enrollment and impeded its progress. Being
advised by Owen and believing that the McKennon Roll
was a finality and constituted a favorable judgment in
behalf of the Choctaws whose names appeared therein,
Winton and associates advised all Indians who had
been previously enrolled not to appear again before the
Commission for identification. Nevertheless, as already
stated; 6,000 or 8,000 applications for enrollment were
made, of which only six or seven were accepted under.
the stringent rule of proof adopted by the Comimisgioh.

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

'June 20, 1901, Winton, under advice of counsel, began
taking new contracts with individual Choctaws living in
Mississippi, in lieu of the previous contracts already mentioned. The new contracts were 834 in number, and embraced in all about 2,000 persons.
March 21, 1902, while preparation of the identification
roll of Mississippi Choctaws was still in progress, an agreenent was entered into between the Choctaw and Chickasaw Nations and the Dawes Commission in which, by
sections 41, 42, 43 and 44, it was proposed to fix the status
of the Mississippi Choctawh. This agreement; after some
amendments in Congress, was approved by Act of July 1,
1902, and ratified by the Choctaws and Chickasaws'on
September25,1902 (c. 1362, 32 Stat. 641,651'-652). It was
under this agreement, known as the Chocthw-Chickasaw
Supplemental Agreement, that practically all Mississippi
Choctaws were enrolled and secured their rights to allotments of Choctaw tribal lands. Section 41 as signed
by the parties. did not contain the full-blood rule of evidence-that is, that full-blood Choctaws living in Mississippi should be presumed to be descendants of Choctaws
who had complied with the requirements of Article 14
of the Treaty of 1830. It permitted all persons identified
by the :C6mmission under the provisions of § 21 of the
Act of June 28, 1898, as Mississippi Choctaws entitled to
benefits under Article 14 of the treaty .to make bona fide
settlement within the Choctaw-Chickasaw country at
any time within six months after. the date of the final
ratification of the agreement, and upon
proof of such
settlement to the Commission within one year after the
date of such ratification they were to be enrolled by the
Commission ab Mississippi Choctaws entitled to allotment; but declared: "The application of no person for
identification as a Mississippi Choctaw shall be received
by said Commission after the date of the final ratification
of this agreement." While the supplemental agreement

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.',

as thus proposed was pending in the Senate, Winton and
associates presented a memorial to that, body in behalf
of the full-blood Mississippi Choctaws, reviewing prior
legislation and praying that the provisions of the agree-'
ment then pending should be amended so that the fullblood rule of evidence should be established and thd
Mississippi Choctaws given time after identification to
remove to the Choctaw country and longer time within
(Senate Doc. 319, 57th
which to make application.
Cong., 1st sess.) , The memorial prayed that sections 41,
42, 43, and 44, which, it was alleged, imposed, onerous
conditions upon Mississippi Choctaws, should be struck:'
out and plain provision made that persons whose names
appeared upon the McKennon Roll, and such full-blood..
Mississippi Choctaws as might be identified by the Commission, and the wives, children, and grandchildren of
all such, should alone constitute the "Mississippi Choctaws " entitled to benefits under the agreement; and
that all of them who should have removed to the Choctaw-Chickasaw lands within twelve months after official
notification of their identification should be enrolled upon
a separate roll desighated "Mississippi Choctaws" and
lands equal in value to lands allotted to citizens of the
Chbctaw and Chickasaw tribes should be selected and
set apart for each of them, and that after a bona fide residence for a period of a year and proof thereof they should
receive patents as provided in th Atoka Agreement, and
be treated in all respects as other Choctaws. An amendment embodj ing these suggestions was introduced in the
Senate at Mr. Owen's request, submitted to the Department of the Interior, and adversely reported upon. Section 41, however, was subsequently amended, and as
finally enacted (32 Stat. 651) established the full-blood
rule as a rule of e-yidence, allowed six nonths after date
of final ratification of the agreement within which applications for identification might be made, six months after

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

identification within which settlement might be made
within the Choctaw-Chickasaw country, and one year
after identification for making proof of such settlement
to the Commission.
The passage of the Act of July 1, 1902, as thus amended,
was o posed by Mr. Owen and the associates of Winton,
who protested against the conditions contained in the
amended sections relating to the Mississippi Choctaws as
finally adopted.
The Indian Appropriation Act of March 3, 1903,'c. 994,
32 Stat. 982, 997, contained the following: "That the
sum of twenty thousand dollars, or so much thereof as
is necessary, is hereby appropriated, to, be immediately
available, for the purpose of aiding indigent and identified
full-blood Mississippi Choctaws to remove: to the Indian
Territory, to be expended at the discretion and under the
direction of the Secretary of the Interior." .The special
disbursing agent of the Dawes Commission was sent to
Mississippi to carry out- this provision. He there organized parties- and assembled all Indians who -could be
-found and induced to come, and they were later transported by special trains -to Indian Territory and there
further maintained until placed upon allotments, and
supplied with tools and other equipment and rations
for six months, all at the expense of the United States.
The total number thus transported, maintained, and
equipped was 420.
The Dawes Commission received applications from approximately 25,000 persons for enrollment as Mississippi
-Choctaws. Of this number 2,534 were identified by the
Comnission; but of these 956 failed to remove to Indian
Territory or suLmit proof of their removal and settlement
within the time prescribed by law. The total number
of applicants identified and finally enrolled and who have
received allotments as members of the Choctaw Nation
is 1,578, of whom only 833 appear on the McKennon Roll,

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

and only 696 had contracts with Wipton and his associates;
181 Mississippi Choctaws had voluntarily removed to
the Territory in 1889 and were received into the Choctaw
Nation. These were carried on the rolls as Mississippi
Choctaws, making the total enrollment 1,759; but the
181 Indians just mentioned were not regarded, as defendants in this proceeding.
The funds derived from sales of allotted lands of enrolled Mississippi Choctaws subject to the restrictions
upon alienation prescribed by § 1 of the Act of May 27,
1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, are held by the Government
to the credit of the individual Indians entitled thereto.
All other fund3 belonging to enrolled Mississippi Choctaws are held as tribal funds, the names being carried on
a separate roll.
As we construe the jurisdictional acts under which
these claims were submitted to the Court of Claims, they
contemplate not an action in personam to establish a
personal liability against individual Indians, or a group
of Indians, but a suit of an equitable nature against that
class of Mississippi Choctaws who, through successful
assertion of the right of citizenship in the Choctaw Nation,
acquired allotments of lands in what formerly was the
tribal domain, and a participation in funds held in trust
by the United States; a suit having the object of imposing an equitable charge upon their funds and lands for a
reasonable and proportionate contribution towards the
value of services rendered and expenses incurred by the
claimants in securing for said class of Indians a beneficial
participation in the trust estate, according to the principle
applied in Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, 532, et.
seq., and Central Railroad & Banking Co. v. Pettus, 113
U. S. 116, 122-127. The present suit is of that nature.
It is thoroughly established that Congress has plenary.
authority over the Indians and all their tribal relations,
and full power to legislate concerning their tribal property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

The guardianship arises from their condition of tutelage
or dependency; and it rests with Congress to determine
when'the relationship shall cease; the mere grant of rights
of citizenship not being sufficient to terminate it. Lone
Wolf v. Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 553, 564, et seq.; Tiger v.
Western Investment Co., 221 U. S. 286, 310-316. In authorizing the present suit Congress evidently recognized
that it was impracticable to bring before the court all
interested individual Choctaws; hence, treating them as
a class, it designated the representatives who should defend for them, by analogy to the familiar practice in equity,
recognized in Equity Rule 38 (226 U. S. 659). To the
objection that the Government's trusteeship of the funds
of these Indians and its guardianship over their interests
in the allotted lands made it necessary that the United
States should be a party to the proceeding, it is sufficient
to say that the regulation of this matter is clearly within
the power of Congress, and that Congress acted within
that power in constituting the governor of the Choctaw
Nation the representative of the defendants upon whom
notice of the, suit was to be served in their behalf, and
designating the Attorney General of the United States as
their attorney to appear and defend the suit. We are
clear, therefore, that there is no substantial basis for the
contention that the jurisdictional acts have the effect of
depriving the Indians of their property without due process of law and hence are in conflict with the Fifth Amendment; a contention which, while overruled by a majority
of the Court of Claims, was acceded to by the Chief Justice in a concurring opinion, 51 Ct. Clms. 324-327.
The claim of Winton, Owen, and associates, is based
wholly upon services rendered-nothing being asked because of expenses incurred or moneys disbursed. According to the findings the services rendered were in the nature
of professional services before Congress and its committees, individual Representatives and Senators, the

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

Dawes Commission, etc., intended to establish the right of
the Mississippi Choctaws to participation in the material
benefits of citizenship in the Choctaw Nation, and to
secure such legislation by Congress as might be needed for
the practical attainment of the object sought. The findings render it clear that services of this nature, altogether
proper in character-not lobbying, in the odious sensewere rendered by these claimants under particular emaployment by many individual Mississippi Choctaws, but
with the object, incidentally, of benefiting the Mississippi
Choctaws as a class, because only so could the clients of
the claimants be benefited. We make no doubt that, for
proper professional services rendered and expenses incurred in promoting legislation that has for its object and
effect the rescue of substantial property interests for a
class of beneficiaries under a trust of a public nature, it is
equitable to impose a charge for reimbursement and compensation upon the interests of those beneficiaries who
receive the benefit, the same as if a like result had been
reached through successful litigation in the courts. In
either case there is the same curious analogy to the salvage
services of the maritime law; and while it may be m6re
difficult to weigh the effect of a service rendered in promoting legislation and to estimate its value than in a case
of successful litigation, we think the principle of Trusteea
v. Greenough and Central Railroad & Banking Co. v.
Petu8 applies in the one case as in the other.
The fact that in the present case the services were rendered under contracts with particular Indians, whether
valid or invalid,'is no obstacle to a recovery. Services not
gratuitous, and neither mala in -e nor mala prohibita,
rendered under a contract that is invalid or unenforceable,
may furnish a basis for an implied or constructive contract
to pay their reasonable value. King v. Brown, 2 Hill
(N. Y.) 485, 487; Erben v. Lorilard, 19 N. Y. 299, 302;
Smith v. Administrators of Smith, 28 N. J. L. 208, 218;

•394

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

McElroy v. Ludlum, 32 N. J. Eq. 828, 833; Gay v. Mooney,
67,N. J. L. 27, 687; New York Central & Hudson River
R. R. Co. v.. Gray, 161 App. Div. (N. Y.) 924, 932; affirmed
239 U. S. 583, 587.
And assuming the last set of contracts made by Winton
and Owen with the Mississippi Choctaws (including the
Daley contracts) be regarded a.s valid, they still do not
create an obstacle to -the present suit. As between the
claimants and their own clients, the existence of valid
express contracts would bar recovery upon an implied cont act. But there was no privity between claimants and
-tZhe -Mississippi Choctaws as a class, no contract having
been made with them in their aggregate capacity and the
individual contracts not including all members of the
-class. Under the equitable doctrine that we hold applicable, claimants, having substantially performed the
agreements, might demand compensation under them as
against their own clients, and the latter would then be entitled to a ratable contribution upon the basis of a quantum
merilt from their fellow beneficiaries whose interests in the
trust estate were secured and rendered available through
the services of claimants. And by way of avoiding circuity
of action the equitable proceeding may well be brought, as
it has been brought, by claimants directly against the
beneficiaries of the trust; claimants waiving, as they must,
any right to recover under the contracts the measure of
compensation prescribed therein. Hence, whether valid or
invalid, the contracts are important merely as they show
that claimants were not intermeddlers but were employed
by large numbers of Mississippi Choctaws, members of the
benefited class, and that their services were not intended
to be gratuitous.
But, in order that there may be an equitable charge in
such a case, it is essential that the services rendered shall
have been substantially instrumental in producing a result
beneficial to the class of cestuis que trustent upon whose

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

interests the charge is to be imposed. And while from the
facts found it is altogether probable that the services of
Winton and associates did materially conduce to bring
about a result beneficial to the Mississippi Choctaws by
furthering the measures of legislation and administration
that were needed to give them a participation in the lands
and funds of the Choctaw Nation, there is no specific
finding of fact upon that subject. If, from the circumstantial facts as found, it followed as a necessary inference that
the services did materially contribute to produce the effect
indicated, it might be held that the ultimate fact resulted
as a conclusion of law. See United States v. Pugh, 99 U. S.
265, 269-272. But the facts as found are inconclusive
respecting the crucial point. Some of the services set
forth in the findings clearly tended to produce a beneficial
result; but there were others having apparently a contrary
tendency. The interference by Winton with the work of
Commissioner McKennon in making up his roll, and with
the work of the second party in making identifications; the
insistence before Congress upon measures for granting to
the Mississippi Choctaws the rights of citizenship in the
Nation -while retaining their residence in Mississippi; and
the opposition to the passage of the Act of July 1, 1902, in
its final form, nay be mentioned. However reasonable
and well-intended these acts on the part of the claimants
may have been-attributable as probably they were to
zeal in the interests of the Indians-it cannot be said to be
free from doubt- that the efforts of claimants, taken as a
whole, advanced the claims of the Mississippi Choctaws as
a class to citizenship in the Nation and constituted a
material factor in producing the ultimate advantageous
result.
But there were requests for additional findings, directed
to the very point upon which findings are wanting. These
requests were preferred under Rules 90-95, but were filed
more-than the prescribed sixty days after judgment.
The

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

court in its discretion might have rejected them on this
ground. Not doing this, however, it passed upon the
merits of the requests, as was reasonable in a case so
important and so complicated; and since, from the reasons
given for rejecting them, it appears that the court to some
extent misapprehended the nature of the main issue, and
the bearing of the requested findings thereon, it cannot be
said that had it not done so it would have rejected the
requests because not filed in due season.
Many of the requests, while suggestive of matters that
might well have been included in the findings, either are
not framed with sufficient definiteness to enable us to sa'y
that there was error in rejecting them, or are objectionable for other reasons. But those here stated ought to
have been acceded to:
XXIX-R (52 Ct. Clms. .128). "Whether or not the
labor of Robert L. Owen in behalf of the rights of the
Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the Choctaw Nation, from July, 1896, to 1906, resulted in any benefit or
value whatever to the Mississippi Choctaws."
XXXI-E (52 Ct. Clms. 130). "Whether or not -the
1,643 Mississippi Choctaws who were admitted to citizenship in and received allotments as members of the Choctaw Nation obtained the right to become such citizens and
thereby receive allotments as a result to any extent whatever of any of the labor and work done by Robert L. Owen
and associates during the period of several years prior to
the passage of the -acts under which they were enrolled
and allotted; and what compensation is equitable or justly
due therefor on the principle of quantum meruit as required by the jurisdictional act in this case."
The reasons given for the rejection of these requests are
not satisfactory; and for failure to make findings in response thereto, the judgment in the case of Winton and
,associates, No. 6, must be reversed, and the cause remanded for additional findings as requested.

WINTON v. AMOS.
373.

Opinion of the Court.

The claim in No. 12, Katie A. Howe, executrix of
Chester Howe, deceased, like the one we have been discussing, is based upon alleged legal services rendered before
Congress and the Interior Department in representing and
protecting the interests of the Mississippi Choctaws and
establishing their rights in and to lands in the Choctaw
Nition. The findings show that Chester Howe, having
acquired an interest in a large number of contracts taken
by a firm of Hudson & Arnold, or the members of the firm,
with individual Mississippi Choctaw claimants, having the
object of securing the rights of the latter to allotments in
the tribal lands of the Choctaw Nation and removing the
Indians to the Indian Territory, was actively engaged for
about a year and a half in pressing the claims of those
Choctaws upon Congressmen and Senators, the SubCommittee on Indian Affairs of the House of Represe:Atatives, the officials of the Indian Office, and the Secretary of
the Interior. It is found not to have been established by
the evidence that Howe's services were effective in es tablishing the claims of the Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the Choctaw Nation, or that such legislation as was
enacted, under which they received allotments in the
tribal lands, was the result of his professional sery-ces.
The vital element of a benefit conferred upon the Mi3sissippi Choctaws as a class is lacking, and from what we
have said it is manifest that the judgment of the Coiut of
Claims as to this claim must be affirmed.
In the other cases covered by the present appeals, viz.,
Bounds, No. 7, London, No. 8, Field and Lindly, N.o. 9,
Beckham, No. 10, and Vernon, No. 11, the findings show
no benefit conferred upon the Mississippi Choctaws as a
class for which recovery can be had under the jurisdictional acts. The claims of Bounds, Beckham, and Vernon
are based upon services, rendered and expenses incurred
in behalf of individual Indians. London did nothing to
advance the claims of the Mississippi Choctaws to citizen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

ship in the Nation.' Lindly and Field claim as associates of
Chester Howe; it does not appear that Lindly performed
any meritorious service for the Indians; Field was active
in impressing upon Congressmen and Senators his views as
to necessary and proper legislation for securing the rights
of the Mississippi Choctaws to citizenship in the Choctaw
Nation; but the extent and effect of such services do not
appear, nor does it appear that the legislation finally
enacted was the result of said services. In none of these
cases does the record show any proper foundation laid for a
remand for further findings. All these claims were properly rejected.

No. 6. Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded for
furtherfindings of fact as above specified.
Nos. 7,8,9,10;11, and 12. Judgments affirmed.
MR. JUsTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision
of these cases.

PIERCE ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued January 24, 1921.-Decided March 7, 192!.

1. A judgment for a fine imposed in a criminal case is enforceable, like
a civil judgment, by execution (Rev. Stats., § 1041), and by creditor's.
bill. P. 401.
2. A corporation against which an indictment was pending for taking

rebates in violation of the Elkins Act, divested itself of its assets
by distributing them among its stockholders, -who were also its
officers alad had notice of the prosecution. Held, that the United
States, having secured a conviction a year later upon which a fine

