EX PARTE CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY.
271.

Syllabus.

The meaning and effect of the charter and ordinances
thereunder are questions of local law determination of
which by the state courts we commonly accept as conclusive. It is admitted that the building was constructed
within defined fire limits, and the Supreme Court of the

State has said this was contrary to valid regulations then
in force. The challenged ordinance must therefore be
treated as affecting an unlawful structure, and as so applied
-we can find no plausible ground for holding it in conflict

with the Federal Constitution.
The judgment below is
Affirmd.

EX PARTE IN THE MATTER OF CHICAGO, ROCK
ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY, PETITIONER.
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF PROHIBITION AND/OR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.
No. 24i Original.

Argued December 13, 1920.--Decided February 28,
1921.

1. A writ of prohibition, or of mandamus, to restrain a lower court
from assuming jurisdiction, will ordinarily be denied if the lower
court's jurisdiction is doubtful, or depends upon findings of fact
made upon evidence not in the record; or if the complaining party
has another adequate remedy by appeal or otherwise. Pp. 275, 280.
2. The immunity of a person from suit in a district whereof he is not
an inhabitant (Jud. Code, ยง 51) can be waived; and ordinarily is
waived by a general appearance. P. 279.
3. In a creditor's suit resulting in a receivership of a railroad company
and in a reference to ascertain claims, bonds of the company were
actively asserted by the bondholders' committee and the mortgage
trustee, and counsel for present petitioner, a large holder of the bonds,
appeared in its behalf before the special master as one of the
counsel for the committee. Hdid: (1) That the District Court had

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

jurisdiction to determine, in the first instance, whether petitioner
had appeared generally; and that it also had jurisdiction to determine (2) whether a cross-bill, subsequently filed by the defendant
railroad company, seeking to avoid the bonds for petitioner's alleged
fraud in procuring their issuance and to hold petitioner liable on
account-of interest paid and bonds negotiated to bona fide holders,-was germane to the earlier proceedings on behalf of the bonds; and
(3) whether in view of such earlier proceedings and general appear-

ance petitioner was subject to such further proceedings by crossbill as fully as if the earlier action had been taken in its name as well
as on its behalf. P. 279.
Rule discharged and petition dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Lawrence Maxwell and Mr. William L. Day,
.,with whom Mr. Jo8eph S. Graydon was on The briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Thurlow M. Gordon, with whom Mr. Joseph P.
Cotton was on the brief, for other bondholders, in opposition to the petition.
Mr. Geo. D. Welles, with whom Mr. Thos. H. Tracy was
on the brief, for Toledo, St. Louis & Western Railroad
Company, in opposition to the petition.
MR. JUSTICE BRAmmEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company,
commonly called the Rock Island, filed in this court a petition in which it alleged that the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Ohio, Western
Division, was undertaking to proceed against it personally
in a suit therein pending; that the Rock Island had not
voluntarily become a party to the suit, had not been
served with process, and could not under ยง 51 of the Judicial

EX PARTE CHICAGO, R. I.'& PAC. RY.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

Code be made a party without its consent, since it was
organized under the laws of Illinois and Iowa and was not
a citizen or resident of Ohio; and it prayed for a writ of prohibition, or in the alternative a writ of mandamus, to prevent the court from proceeding further against it. The
suit in which it is sought to proceed personally against the
Rock Island is one brought by an Ohio creditor of the
Toledo, St. Louis and Western Railroad Company, an
Indiana corporation, for the appointment of a receiver for
that Corporation. The particular -proceeding by which the
personal liability is asserted is a cross-bill which was filed
by the Toledo Company against the Rock.Wland after the
appointment of the receiver and after the Rock Island had
appeared before a special master for the purpose of protecting its interests in an issue of the Toledo Company's
bonds. A rule was granted and the case is now before us on
the petition and return. The main questions argued here
were whether upon the facts there stated the Rock Island
had become a party to the suit and subjected itself generally
to the jurisdiction of the court; and, if it had not, whether
the case is one which entitles the petitioner to either of the
extraordinary remedies applied: for.
There is a well-settled rule by which this court is guided
upon applications fo -a writ of prohibition to prevent a
lower court from wrongfully assuming jurisdiction of a
party, of a cause, or of some collateral matter arising
therein. If the lower court-is clearly without jurisdiction
the writ will ordinarily be granted to one who at the outset
objected to the jurisdiction, has preserved his rights by
appropriate procedure and has no other remedy. In re
Rice, 155 U. S. 396. If, however, the jurisdiction of the
lower court is doubtful, EK parte Muir, 254 U. S. 522; or if
the jurisdiction depends upon a finding of fact made upon
evidence which is not in the record, In re Cooper, 143 U. S.
472, 506, 509; or if the complaining party has an adequate
remedy by appeal or otherwise, Ex parte Tiffany, 252 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

32, 37; Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363; the writ will
ordinarily' be denied., Tested by this rule the case presented by the petition and the return does not entitle the
Rock Island to this extraordinary remedy.
The original bill filed against the Toledo Company in the
Nprthern District of Ohio, Western Division, alleged,
among other things, that it had defaulted on an issue of
$11,527,000 Collateral Trust Gold Bonds, secured by stock
of the Chicago & Alton Railroad Company held by the
Central Trust Company of New York, as trustee for the
bondholders. These bonds were divided into two classes
having somewhat different rights and interests. A single
bondholders' committee was formed to protect both
classes of bonds. Of the "A" bonds $6,480,000 were
outstanding; and of these $5,248,000 were deposited with
the committee,-$400,000 of them by the Rock Island.
Of the "B" bonds $5,047,000 were outstanding all of
which were deposited with the committee by the Rock
Island. The special master was directed to ascertain and
report the amount, character, lien and priority of all claims;
and creditors were notified to present before him their
respective claims duly verified, or to file bills of intervention. The bondholders' committee then filed a petition
praying that the suit be dismissed as collusive and, in the
alternative, that judgment be rendered for the committee
in the amount of the face value of the bonds held by it,
aggregating $10,295,000 and accrued interest. To that
petition an answer in the nature of a cross-bill was filed by
the plaintiff who prayed that the committee's petition be
held to be an intervention, that the receiver be directed to
defend against the bonds held by the committee, and that
these bonds be ordered surrendered, if found to be invalid.
By leave of court, the committee withdrew its petition,
and sought its relief by a dependent bill. An order was
thereupon entered making the committee a party defendant to the original bill with leave to answer and file a

EX PARTE CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY.
273.

Opinion of the Court.

cross-bill. This it did; and the Central Trust Company
also-filed a cross-bill to foreclose the lien on the Chicago
& Alton stock held as security for the Collateral Trust
Bonds. An order was then made referring the case, on the
issues raised by the several pleadings, to the special master
to take testimony and report.
.-At the beginning of the taking of testimony before the
special master the appearances of counsel were formally
noted by the master, among others, as follows:
"Lawrence Maxwell, Esq., and J. P. Cotton; Esq.,
appearing for the Bondholders' Committee, Mr. Maxwell
appearing to represent the interest of the Rock Island
Company, and Mr. Cotton representing the 'A' bonds."
Thereafter the Toledo Company filed an answer and
cross-bill in which it claimed, among other things, that the
whole issue of the -Collateral Trust Bonds was void on
account of fraud practiced by the Rock Island; that the
Rock Island was liable for all amounts theretofore paid by
the Toledo Company on the bonds in excess of dividends
received on the Chicago & Alton stock; and that it was
liable also for all amounts which the Toledo Company
might be required to pay thereafter on account of any of
the series "A" bonds which the court should hold to be
valid obligations because they had passed into the hands
of innocent holders. The cross-bill of the Toledo Company
prayed that the necessary accounting be had; that the
Rock Island be declared to be a party; that it be required
to answer; and that in default of answer a decree be entered
against it pro confesso. An order was entered in accordance with the prayer of the bill and notice thereof was
served on Mr. Maxwell as its solicitor. His name had not
appeared as counsel on any. pleading filed by the committee.
The Rock Island then filed a motion which stated:
"Appearing solely for the purpose of the motion and not
intending to submit itself to the jurisdiction of this court

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.

Opinion of the Court.

255 U. S.

as a party to this suit, moves the court to set aside its
finding in the order entered herein March 11, 1918, that
the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Company has
heretofore entered its appearance as a party to this suit
and its order

.

.

. ; on the ground that the court was

without jurisdiction to make said order, or over this
defendant as a party to the cross-bill."
This motion was overruled and an order was entered
requiring answer within twenty days. Thereupon a
further motion was made -by the Rock Island in which,
renewing its claim that it had not entered its appearance
and asserting that the court was without jurisdiction over
it as a defendant to the Toledo Company's cross-bill, "or
at all, especially in respect of the pretended cause of action
therein set up for the recovery of moneys from it, moves
to dismiss so much of said cross-bill as seeks to recover
moneys from the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway Co. upon the ground that it is not suable in this
suit in this District upon said pretended cause of action,
not being an inhabitant of the District or of the State of
Ohio, and neither it nor the Cross Complainant being a
resident of the District or State,"
This motion also was overruled; and thereupon this
petition for a writ of prohibition or of mandamus was
filed.
The return of the District Court stated that the Toledo
Company's answer had alleged that the Rock Island had
intervened in its own right and had become a party to'the
cause; that at the hearing upon such answer evidence was
introduced; and that service thereof was admitted by its
solicitor as such. The return further recited:
"The evidence upon which the court actedin making
,-the findings fnd orders of -which complaint is made in
said petition is not set out in said petition. Respondent
denies the statement in the brief for petitioner that 'The
only basis for the- claim that the District Court has

EX PARTE CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY.
273.

279

Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction of-the person of the Rock Island Company is
that Mr. Maxwell entered its appearance by appearing
as counsel for the Bondholders' Committee.' The original
entry of appearance by Mr. Maxwell quoted in the petition and in the brief is only one item out of a large number
of items of evidence considered by the court on this point.
"No steps were taken by petitioner to preserve and have
certified a record of the evidence submitted on the hearings
of said motions or to obtain a review of the orders complained of by appeal or error proceedings."
It is argued on these facts that the District Court did
not acquire jurisdiction to enforce the personal liability-of
the Rock Island asserted in the cross-bill of the Toledo
Company; but, applying the rule stated above, that question should not be decided in this proceeding. The most
that can be said against the District Court's jurisdiction
is that it is in doubt. And the return recites that the order
which declared that the Rock Island became a party rests
upon evidence which has not been embodied in the record.
The immunity of the Rock Island from suit in the Northern District of Ohio, conferred by ยง 51 of the Judicial
Code, could be waived, In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490; and
ordinarily a general appearance operates as a waiver.
Gracie v. Palmer, 8 Wheat. 699. The District Court
obviously had jurisdiction to determine, in the first;
instance, whether the Rock Island had entered a general
appearance. Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wall. 327. It had
jurisdiction also to determiie whether the relief sought in
germane
the Toledo Company's cross-bill was in its nature
to the proceedings theretofore. instituted in the suit by the
bondholders' committee or by the Central Trust Company,
so that the "rights asserted in the cross-bill could be
properly litigated in that suit. Chicago,.Milwauke & St.
Paul Ry.Co. v. Third National Bank of Chicago, 134 U. S.
276, 287. And finally, it had jurisdiction to determine
whether the fact that such earlier proceeding had been

OCTOBER TERM, 1920.
Syllabus.

255 U. S.

instituted on behalf of the Rock Island, that it had actively
participated in the conduct thereof, and to that end had
entered a general appearance, made it subject to further
proceedings thereon byway of cross-bill, as fully as if the
earlier action had been taken in its name as well as on its
behalf. Compare also Ex parte Gordon, 104 U. S. 515;
Globe Refining Co. v. Landa Cotton Oil Co., 190 U. S. 540;
In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323. If in the judgment of the
Rock Island the District Court erred in the decision of
any one or all of these questions it will have its remedy
by appeal, unless it has failed to preserve by appropriate
procedure that right of review. The same considerations
lead to a denial also of the writ of mandamus. Ex parte
Roe, 234 U. S. 70.
Rule dischargedand petition dismissed.
MR, JUSTICE DAY took no part in the consideration or
the decision of this case.

ARMOUR & COMPANY ET AL. v. CITY OF DALLAS
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 149.

Argued January 18, 1921.-Decided February 28, 1921.

1. Where a city and a railway company agreed for the removal of the
railway's main tracks from a busy street to another location, to
promote the public safety and convenience and the operation of
the railway, and owners of abutting property alleged that the change,
by depriving them of their switch connection, would largely destroy
the value of their expensive plant, in violation of their constitutional
rights of contract and property, held, that the case was not one for

