OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

236 U. S.

accuracy is demonstrated by a mere statement of the
proposition to which all the contentions here'urged are in
their essence reducible, which is as follows. Although the
shipment of merchandise from one State to another is
interstate commerce which the States cannot directly
burden, nevertheless the States may directly burden such
shipments in every case where there is any merchandise
kept in the State to be the subject of interstate commerce
shipment or when any of those steps which are essentially
prerequisite to the initiation of an interstate commerce
shipment are taken by the owner of the merchandise.
Reversed.

SOUTHERN OPERATING COMPANY v. HAYS,
COUNTY CLERK OF HAMILTON COUNTY,
TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 122.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Decided on the authority of Heyman v. Hays, ante, p. 178.

THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carlisle S. Littleton and Mr. James J. Lynch, with
whom Mr. Jesse M. Littleton and Mr. George D. Lancaster
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
MP. Frank M. Thompson, Attorney General of the
State of Tennessee, and Mr. J. B. Sizer, for defendant
in eror.

SOUTHERN OPERATING CO. v. HAYS.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the, opinion of the

court.
This case was brought to enjoin the collection of a
State and County Privilege Tax upon the same facts
as those which were involved in the case just decided.
The two cases in both the trial and the court below were
heard together and they were here argued at the same
time. The court below in disposing of this case with one
exception placed its conclusion upon the same grounds
upon which it decided the previous case. The one exception referred to was a declaration that the trial court
erred in granting the injunction so far as the state tax
was concerned because there was no authority to enjoin
the collection of such a tax and the oily right was to pay
under protest and sue to recover. Whatever difference
between the two cases would otherwise result from that
point of view need not be considered since the Attorney
General of the State in the argument at bar in express
terms states that that question is not insisted upon. It
being thus removed from consideration, a complete
identity between the two cases results and for the reasons
given in the previous case the judgment in this case must
also be reversed.
Reversed.

