OCTOBER TERM, 1914
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

But this court cannot entertain an argument based on
the theory that the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana was in conflict with the law of the State. Its
opinion in this case is to be taken as conclusively establishing that, in Louisiana, the vendor's lien can only be
enforced against property in the possession of the court
and also that such possession was not acquired by means
of the service of the summons of garnishment.
From this ruling,-on a matter of state law, not subject
to review here-it follows that the proceedings in the
Civil District Court to foreclose the vendor's lien failed
for want of possession of the cotton. That then left the
case an ordinary suit for purchase money against Martin &
Company, in which an attachment had been levied, on
property in the hands of the certain garnishees. But the
lien thus created by attachment and garnishment was
dissolved by the express provisions, of § 67f of the Bankruptcy Act. The judgment granting the peremptory
writ of prohibition and relegating the parties to the Bankruptcy Court is therefore
Affirmed.

TOLEDO, ST. LOUIS AND WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. SLAVIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 147.

COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Submitted January 20, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Where the ruling of the trial court in an action for personal injuries
against a railroad company, that the state statute abolishing assumption of risk and contributory negligence applied, was reversed by
the intermediate appellate court on the ground that the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, which does not abolish such defenses,
applied, and the'highest court of the State reversed this judgment

TOLEDO, ST. L. & WEST. 'R. R. CO. v. $LAVIN.
236 U. S.

455

Opinion of the Court.

without opinion, a controlling Federal question was necessarily
involved and this court has jurisdiction to review under § 237, Judicial Code.
When the evidence shows that although the case was brought under
the state statute plaintiff was injured while engaged in interstate
commerce, the objection that he cannot recover under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act is not a technical rule of pleading, but a
matter of substance, and where there are substantive differences
between the state and Federal statutes in regard to defences of assumption of risk and contributory negligence, proceeding under the
former is reversible error.
88 Oh. St. 536, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment for
personal injuries obtained in the state court under the
state statute and the application and effect of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Clarence Brown and Mr. Charles A. Schmettau for
plaintiff in error.

Mr. Walter G. Kirkbride and Mr. C. H. Masters for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

In the Court of Common Pleas of Lucas County, Ohio,
Otto Slavin brought suit against the Railroad Company
for injuries received by him on the night of August 19,
1910, while he was at work on a train in the Company's
yard at Toledo. His declaration alleged that in the performance of his duty, and in pursuance of a custom known
to the Defendant, he was riding on the side of a gondola
car with his foot in the "stirrup" and his hands holding
the grab-irons. He averred that while in that position
and without fault on his part, he was struck by another car
standing on the adjoining track which he did not and
could not see in time to avoid the injury. He alleged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the Company was guilty of negligence in laying and
maintaining the yard tracks in close and dangerous
proximity to each other; and that it was further negligent
in failing to give him notice that the freight caf was
standing on the adjoining track. The defendant denied
the charge of negligence. It contended that Slavin's duty
did not require him to ride on the side of the car, but that,
with a safe place in which to work, he voluntarily and
unnecessarily rode,,in a dangerous position, on the outside
of a car passing through a railroad yard where he knew, or
ought to have known, that trains and cars would be
standing.
There was evidence that the plaintiff had been employed
by the Company for about ten years-for much of that
time being in charge of the switching engine which operated over every part of the yard-and that he was thoroughly familiar with the condition, situation and location
of the tracks at the point where the injury occurred.
Neither the plaintiff's complaint nor the defendant's
answer contained any reference to the Employers' Liability Act. But, over plaintiff's objection, evidence was
admitted which showed that the train on which the plaintiff was riding, at the time of the injury was- engaged in
interstate commerce. Thereupon the Railroad Company
insisted that the case was governed by the provisions of
the Employers' Liability Act and moved the court to
direct a verdict in its favor. That motion having been
overruled the defendant asked the court to give in charge
to the jury several applicable extracts from that Federal
statute.
All these requests were refused, the trial judge being of
the opinion that the proximity of the tracks constituted a
defect in "rail, track or machinery" within the meaning
of the Ohio statute; and that, although the plaintiff- had
notice of such defect, he was not debarred of the right to
recover, in view of §§ 9017. and'9018 of the Ohio Code,

TOLEDO, ST. L. &WEST. R1. R. CO. v. SLAVIN.
236 U. S.

457

Opinion of the Court.

changing the common law rule as to contributory negligence and assumption of risks. There was a verdict for
the plaintiff. The defendant's motion for a new trial was
overruled. On writ of error the Circuit Court of Lucas
County held that inasmuch as the plaintiff was injured
while engaged in interstate commerce the case was governed by the Federal statute which did not repeal the
common law rule of assumption of risks under circumstances like those set out in the record and that the defendant's motion for a directed verdict should have been
granted. This judgment was reversed and that of the
Court of Common Pleas affirmed, without opinion, by the
Supreme'Court of Ohio.
The case having been brought here by writ of error,
counsel for the plaintiff, Slavin, insists that the judgment
of reversal, without opinion, should not be construed as
meaning that the -state court decided the Federal question
adversely to the Company's claim; but rather as holding
that the defendant's failure to plead the Employers'
Liability Act made it improper to consider evidence that
the plaintiff had been engaged in interstate commerce
and, hence, that there was nothing properly in this~record
to support the contention that the defendant had been
deprived of a Federal right.
But a controlling Federal question was necessarily
involved. For, when the plaintiff brought suit on the
state statute the defendant was entitled to disprove
liability under the Ohio Act, by showing that the injury
had been inflicted while Slavin was employed in interstate
business. And, if without amendment, the case proceeded
with the proof showing that the right of the plaintiff and
the liability of the defendant had to be measured by the
Federal statute, it was error not to apply and enforce the
provisions of that law.
In this respect the case is much like St. Louis &c. Ry.
v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156, 161, where the suit was brought

OCTOBER TERM,' 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

under the Texas statute, but the testimony showed that
the plaintiff was injured while engaged in interstate commerce. The court said: "When the evidence was adduced
it developed that the real case was not controlled by the
state statute but by the Federal statute. In short, the
case pleaded was not proved and the case proved was not
pleaded. In that situation the defendant interposed the
objection, grounded on the Federal statute, that the
plaintiffs were not entitled to recover on the case proved.
We think the objection was interposed in due time and
that the state courts erred in overruling it." The principle
of that ,decision and others like it is not based upon any
technical rule of pleading but is matter of substance,
where, as in the present case, the terms of the two statutes
differ in essential particulars. Here the Ohio statute
abolished the rule of the common law as to the assumption
of risks in injuries occasioned by defects in tracks, while
the Federal statute left that common law rule in force,
except in those instances where the injury was due to the
defendant's violation of Federal statutes, which,--like
the Hours of Labor Law and the Safety Appliance Act,were passed for the protection of interstate employ~s.
SeaboardAir Line v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492, 503.
In all other respects this case is exactly within the ruling
in the case last cited, where the employ6's knowledge of
the existence of the defect and the terms of the state
statute relied on were substantially the same as those in
the present case. There the judgment of the state courtapplying the state statute--was reversed because it appeared, as it does here, that the plaintiff had been injured while engaged in interstate commerce and, consequently, the case should have been tried and determined
according to the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Ohio is reversed and
the case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

