OCtOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

punished the Company for employing him for more than
nine hours-even though it was argued that the state
legislation was not in conflict with the Federal act, but
rather in aid of it. The same contention is made here
inasmuch as the Indiana law requires hand-holds on sides
or ends of cars, while the Federal statute requires handholds to be placed both on the sides and ends of cars.
The test, however, is not whether the state legislation
is in conflict with the details of the Federal law or supplements it, but whether the State had any jurisdiction of a
subject over which Congress had exerted its exclusive
control. The Safety Appliance Act having superseded
the Indiana statute the judgment imposing the penalty.
must be reversed, and the case remanded for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

LEHMAN, STERN & COMPANY, LIMITED, v.
S. GUMBEL & COMPANY, LIMITED.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.

No. 146.

Argued January 22, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

This court cannot entertain argument based on the theory that the
decision of the highest court of the State is in conflict with the law
of the State.
The ruling of the highest court of the State as to enforcement of a
vendor's statutory lien is a matter of state law not reversible by
this court.
Where the vendor attached within four months, alleging a vendor's
lien under the state statute, and the state court holds that the proceedings under the vendor's lien failed for want of possession, the
lien is simply that created by ordinary attachment and garnishment
and is dissolved by the express provisions of § 67f of the Bankruptcy
Act.

LEHMAN v. GUMBEL.
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Where an inferior state court attempts to proceed under attachment
based on a vendor's statutory lien filed within four months of the
petition and the Supreme Court of the State holds there is no
vendor's lien but only ordinary attachment, a peremptory writ of
prohibition against the state court and relegating the parties to the
Bankruptcy Court is the proper practice.
132 Louisiana, 231, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the effect of bankruptcy
proceedings on attachments in the state court, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Henry H. Chaffe, with whom Mr. George Denegre
and Mr. Victor Leovy were on the brief, for plaintiff in

error:
Section 67 of the Bankruptcy Act is not directed at
the writ of attachment itself, but only at the lien obtained
thereby. Austin v. OReilly, 2 Wood, 670; Henderson v.
Mayer, 225 U. S. 631.
A judgment or decree in enforcement of an otherwise
valid preexisting lien is not the judgment denounced by
the statute, which is plainly confined to judgments creating liens. Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S. 175.
The name of the writ is of no concern,- as Congress
was dealing with liens obtained by judicial proceedings
and not with the writs which might be employed to enforce valid preexisting statutory liens by holding the
property within the grasp of the state court. The court
below erred in holding that because the seizure of the
state court was constructive and not actual and physical,
the adjudication in bankruptcy of the defendant divested
the state court of jurisdiction to determine the validity,
vel non, of plaintiff's lien on the cotton seized.
By garnishment process the property is placed in custodia legis and under the control of the court. And this
is all that is necessary to maintain its jurisdiction. Scholefield v. Bradlee, 8 Martin, 0. S., p. 510; Dennistown v.
VOL. ccxxxvi-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Frror.

236 U. S.

N. Y. Faucet Co., 12 La. Ann. 732; Grief v. Betterson,
18 La. Ann. 349; Goslan v. Powell, 38 La. Ann. 522;
Buddig v. Simpson, 33 La. Ann. 375; Gomilla v. Millikin,
41 La. Ann. 123; Lehman & Co. v. Rivers, 110 Louisianl,
1079.
In order to give the court jurisdiction over property,
it is not necessary that it be in the possession of one of
its officers bearing the title of sheriff, constable, receiver
or the like; it is merely necessary that the property be
under its control and subject to its order. Cooper v.
Reynolds, 10 Wall. 308, 317; Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U. S.
165; Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. S. 521; In re Seebold, 105 Fed.
Rep. 910; Carling v. Seymore Lumber Co., 113 Fed. Rep.
490; In re Kane, 152 Fed. Rep. 587.
Until the position of garnishee with regard to the cotton
seized in the hands of the railroad company, and that
in their hands, if any was so caught by the writ of attachment, it cannot be said that. the plaintiff's rights have
been transferred to and will have to be asserted, in the
United States courts, as it may very well be that the
rights have never been transferred and could in no event
be. asserted there. The trustee is a party to these proceedings and can, therefore, fully protect the interests
of the general creditors.
The state court does not lose all and every character of
jurisdiction over the bankrupt's assets and property, no
matter how or where situated. This court has on several
occasions taken the opposite view. Bardes v. Harwarden
Bank, 178 U. S. 524; Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. S. 521; Louisville Trust Co. v. Cominger, 184 U. S. 18; First National
Bank of Chicago v. Chicago Title & Trust Co., 198 U. S.
280.
The lien sought to be enforced is one granted by the
law of Louisiana; prior to the adjudication in bankruptcy the state court seized and took under its control
the property on which the lien is asserted, and, there-

LEHMAN v. GUMBEL
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fore, its jurisdiction was not divested or the suit in any
way affected by the adjudication in bankruptcy of the
defendants, in so far as enforcing the statutory lien is
concerned.
Mr. Monte M. Lemann, with whom Mr. J. Blanc Monroe
was on the brief, for the defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 12, 1912, Lehman, Stern & Company sold to
Martin & Company, 392 bales of cotton for the sum of
$19,238. The checks given in payment were not honored
when presented to the bank, and, on the day after the
sale, the Lehman Company brought suit in a state court
to obtain a general judgment against Martin & Company
and to foreclose the lien, given by the Louisiana statute,
on agricultural products "to secure the payment of the
purchase money for and during the space of five days
only after the day of delivery; within which time the
vendor shall be entitled to seize the same in whatsoever
hands or place it may be found and his claim for the purchase money shall have preference over all others."
Writs of sequestration and of attachment issued requiring the sheriff to seize the cotton in whatsoever place
it might be found, and to attach other property of Martin
& Co. and the individual members thereof and hold the
same subject to the further judgment and order of the
court. The New Orleans Railway Company, Gumbel &
Co., and the Hibernia Bank were served with summons
of garnishment.
On March 19th the defendants, Martin & Co., were
adjudged voluntary bankrupts. On the next day Thompson was appointed Receiver of the bankrupts' estate.
Shortly afterwards the New Orleans Railway Company,
garnishee, in the state suit, answered that it had in its

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

possession 83 bales of the cotton mentioned in the pleadings-stating, however, that the cotton was claimed by
Thompson, Receiver of Martin & Co., bakrupts, and
that he had notified the Railroad Company not to surrender the same.
By virtue of an order of the bankrupt court Thompson,
Receiver, thereafter intervened in the suit pending in
the state court. Calling attention to the fact that the
attachment proceedings had been commenced within
four months prior to the petition in bankruptcy, and
averring that the action did not involve property within
the possession of the court, the Receiver filed a motion
"to dismiss the proceedings herein, relegating the parties
to the proper court of bankruptcy to determine their conflicting claims." Gumbel & Co., garnishees, also excepted
to the jurisdiction of the court on the ground that Martin
& Co. had been adjudicated bankrupts. Both of these
motions were overruled by the judge presiding in the state
court who held that the Bankruptcy Act did not dissolvc
the vendor's lien; nor did it prevent the court from enforcing that lien against the cotton which had been brought
into the custody of the court by means of garnishments
served before the bankruptcy proceedings were filed.
Thereupon Gumbel & Co. applied to the Supreme Court
of Louisiana for a wrif of Prohibition forbidding the Judge
of the Civil District Court of the-Parish of New Orleans
from proceeding further in the cause. The petition set
out the history of the litigation, and averred that although
§ 67f dissolved the attachment, the court below had retained jurisdiction; that the Receiver had given notice
that he claimed title to any property of Martin & Co. in
the hands of Gumbel & Co. and would proceed to enforce
the same by proceedings in the bankrupt court. By reason of these facts, and to avoid conflicts of jurisdiction
between the courts, Gumbel & Co. claimed to be entitled
to the benefit of the writ of Prohibition forbidding the

LEHMAN v. GUMBEL.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

judge of the Parish Court from proceeding further in the
case as against them, garnishees, and claimants of the
cotton under bills of lading issued by the Railway Co.
A rule nisi issued and was served upon the judge of the
Civil District Court. He answered and after argument
the Supreme Court of Louisiana ordered that the peremptory writ be issued 'on the ground that as § 67f dissolved
the attachment the state court had no jurisdiction to
enforce the garnishment process under the writ of attachment for the purpose of subjecting the property to the
vendor's lien claimed by the plaintiff.'
A petition for a rehearing having been granted, the court,
one judge dissenting, held that unless the state court
had possession of the res its jurisdiction was destroyed
by the bankruptcy proceedings; and as the summons of
garnishment did not operate to transfer the cotton from
the possession of the garnishee into the possession of the
court, there was no jurisdiction to foreclose the vendor's
lien. It also held that the state court was without power
to afford relief to the attaching creditors who would,
therefore, be obliged to have their rights adjudicated in
the bankrupt court.
The case having been brought here by writ of error, the
plaintiffs cited Louisiana cases in support of the contention
that, in their suit for the recovery of the purchase price of
agricultural products, they were entitled to an attachment, not only to secure a fund out of which to satisfy a
general judgment, but also as a means by which to bring
the cotton into court so as to have the vendor's lien foreclosed. In the light of those cases the plaintiffs further
insisted that the garnishment operated as a seizure of the
cotton; and that while § 67f may have dissolved the lien
created by the attachment it did not affect the lien given
by statute on the cotton which the garnishment had
brought into the legal possession, custody and control of
the Civil District Court of the Parish of Orleans.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

But this court cannot entertain an argument based on
the theory that the decision of the Supreme Court of
Louisiana was in conflict with the law of the State. Its
opinion in this case is to be taken as conclusively establishing that, in Louisiana, the vendor's lien can only be
enforced against property in the possession of the court
and also that such possession was not acquired by means
of the service of the summons of garnishment.
From this ruling,-on a matter of state law, not subject
to review here-it follows that the proceedings in the
Civil District Court to foreclose the vendor's lien failed
for want of possession of the cotton. That then left the
case an ordinary suit for purchase money against Martin &
Company, in which an attachment had been levied, on
property in the hands of the certain garnishees. But the
lien thus created by attachment and garnishment was
dissolved by the express provisions, of § 67f of the Bankruptcy Act. The judgment granting the peremptory
writ of prohibition and relegating the parties to the Bankruptcy Court is therefore
Affirmed.

TOLEDO, ST. LOUIS AND WESTERN RAILROAD
COMPANY v. SLAVIN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

No. 147.

COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Submitted January 20, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Where the ruling of the trial court in an action for personal injuries
against a railroad company, that the state statute abolishing assumption of risk and contributory negligence applied, was reversed by
the intermediate appellate court on the ground that the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, which does not abolish such defenses,
applied, and the'highest court of the State reversed this judgment

