OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

these laws, according to the -settled rule of construction,
George Solander was entitled to the property and had the
right to convey. Reynolds v. Fewell, ante, p. 58.
. The question whether the persons entitled to take lands
allotted under § 28 on behalf of a deceased member of the
tribe, should be ascertained by reference to the time of the
death of the decedent, or by reference to the date of the
allotment, has been discussed in the briefs but is not material here, inasmuch as in either event George Solander
took all the lands in question; it is not necessary to inquire
whether an undivided interest should be treated as one
passing in the first instance to his daughter and on her
death to him.
Judgment affirmed.

LESSER v. GRAY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 110.

Submitted December 9,1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

Where plaintiff in error seasonably sets up and claims that, because
the bankruptcy court adjudicated his debt to be not provable the
proceedings in bankruptcy and defendant's discharge are not a bar,
a Federal issue is raised, and as in this case that question is not
frivolous, this court has jurisdiction under § 237, Judicial Code.
A disallowed debt and a non-provable debt are not identical; and a
claim that has been presented and disallowed as not having foundation is not a non-provable debt and the discharge is a bar.
In this case, held that the contract on which the claim sued for was
based was either terminated by defendant's bankruptcy or noncompliance therewith constituted a breach, and in either case defendant was released by his discharge.
As plaintiff, suing on a claim disallowed in the bankruptcy proceeding,
made no effort to review the action of the bankruptcy court in the

LESSER v' GRAY.'
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

direct way prescribed by the Bankruptcy Act, the result in this case
cannot be obtained indirectly by suit in the state court based on the
contention that the debt was non-provable.
8 Ga. App. 605, affirmed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
under § 237, Judicial Code, and the effect of a discharge in
bankruptcy, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. Henry A. Alexander, Mr. C. Henry Cohen and Mr.
Rodney S. Cohen for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Alex. C. King and Mr. Charles T. Hopkins for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Lesser brought suit in the City Court of Atlanta against
Gray and another, once members of Inman & Co., for
damages alleged to have resulted from breach of contract
by the firm. A demurrer was sustained and final judgment rendered for defendant; this was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of Georgia (8 Ga. App. 605); and the
matter is here upon writ of error.
A motion to dismiss must be denied. Plaintiff in error
seasonably set up and claimed that, because the bankruptcy court adjudicated his debt to be not provable (Re
Inman & Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 312), the proceedings in bankruptcy and discharge of defendant constituted no bar to a
recovery thereon in the state court. A Federal issue is
raised and we cannot say that it is too frivolous to give
jurisdiction. Rector v. City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S. 405,
411.
The following summary adequately indicates the essentials of the original petition:
Inman & Co., a copartnership composed of Gray and
.1

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

others, in July, 1907, agreed to purchase from Lesser 500
bales of patches-cotton bagging-to be delivered during
the twelve months commencing September 1, 1907. About
one-third was delivered and paid for prior to May 4, 1908,
at which time an involuntary petition in bankruptcy was
filed against the firm and its members. Shortly thereafter
all were adjudicated bankrupts. Trustees were appointed,
and in July, 1908, Gray obtained his discharge. Prior to
the bankruptcy proceedings there was no breach or disavowal of the contract and thereafter no demand for further deliveries nor offer to make any.
In Feburary, 1909, Lesser presented a claim against
the estate for his alleged loss. The trustees objected on
several grounds. Among others these were specified:
"That said claim is not a provable claim in bankruptcy
under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act; that said claim
on its face shows that at the time of. the filing of the petition in said cause, and at the date of adjudication, the
merchandise, the subject-matter of the claim, had not
been delivered to the bankrupts as provided under the
contract of sale therein set forth, but that all of said merchandise that had been delivered, to wit, the amount of 174
bales had been paid for. . . . Said proof shows that at
the date of the adjudication, as well as the filing of the petition, no breach of said contract had occurred.
*
Your trustees show that the contract set forth is not such
a contract as is avoided by an adjudication in bankruptcy,
and, therefore, that the same is not a provable debt."
The referee disallowed the claim, and'the United States
District Court approved his action for reasons stated in
a written opinion incorporated in the petition.
"Petitioner shows that the defendants have failed under
said contract to accept and pay for 326 bales of patches
at the contract price, and petitioner' having retained said
goods, defendants are indebted to him for the difference
between the contract price and the market price at the

LESSER v. GRAY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

time and place of delivery under said contract;
that his said claim having been disallowed and adjudicated
not provable in bankruptcy, the said discharges of the defendants are no bar to the prosecution of this suit, and the
plea of bankruptcy is not available to the defendants;" and
he prays for judgment.
In support of the demurrer defendant Gray maintains:
(1) The plaintiff sustained no legal injury. Before any
breach of the contract an involuntary petition ,in bankruptcy, afterwards sustained, was commenced against the
partners.hip and its members; the partnership was dissolved, the contract rendered impossible of performance
and annulled by the law; and whatever loss resulted was
damnum absque injuria. (2) If there ever. was a valid
claim defendant's discharge in bankruptcy acquitted it.
(3) The matter was submitted to a competent court of
bankruptcy with exclusive jurisdiction, which disallowed
the demand; no appeal was taken; and the question became res judicata.
The plaintiff in error insists: That he suffered legal
damage because the contract of purchase was not fully
complied with. "Under the classification of the act, claims
are either provable or not provable;" when of the f6rmer
class they are dischargeable, when of the latter they are
not dischargeable. His "claim had been adjudged by the
bankruptcy ccurt, to which it had been presented for
proof, to be not provable," and therefore the discharge
constitutes no bar to his right to recover against the defendant.
Section 2 of the Bankruptcy Law (July 1, 1898, c.,541,
30 Stat. 544) invests courts of bankruptcy with jurisdiction to "(2) allow claims, disallow claims, reconsider allowed or disallowed claims, and allow or disallow them
against bankrupt estates; . . . (6) bring in and substitute additional persons or parties in proceedings in
bankruptcy when necessary for the complete determina-

OCTO:BER TERM, 1914.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion of a matter in controversy; (7) cause the estates of
bankrupts to be collected, reduced to money and distributed, and determine controversies in relation thereto,
except as herein otherwise provided;

.

.

.

(10) con-

sider and confirm, modify or overrule, or return, with instructions for further proceedings, records and findings
certified to them by referees;

.

.

.

(15) make such

orders, issue such process, and enter such judgments in
addition to those specifically provided for as may be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of this Act."
A "'discharge' shall mean the release of a bankrupt from
all of his debts which are provable in bankruptcy, except
such as are excepted by this Act." (§ 1.) "A discharge
in bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt from all of his
provable debts." (§ 17.) Debts of the bankrupt may
be proved and allowed against his estate which are founded
upon an open account, or upon a contract express or implied; and unliquidated claims may be liquidated in such
manner as the court shall direct, and may thereafter be
proved and allowed. (§63.)
A bankruptcy court in which an estate is being administered has full power to inquire into the validity of any
alleged debt or obligation of the bankrupt upon which a
demand or claim against the estate is based. This is
essential to the performance of the duties imposed upon
it. When an alleged debt or obligation is ascertained to
be invalid-without lawful existence-the claim based
thereon is necessarily disallowed. A disallowed claim and
a non-provable debt are not identical things; and a failure
accurately to observe the distinction has led to confusion
in argument.
The United States District Court, being of opinion that
an implied condition in Lesser's contract terminated it
when the involuntary bankruptcy proceeding was begun,
held that the bankrupt incurred no obligation to pay damage by reason of the firm's failure fully to comply there-

STEARNS v. WOOD.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

with. Accordingly the judgment in respect of the claim
presented by plaintiff against the estate was that it be
disallowed because without foundation-not that he had
a non-provable debt.
The petition in the cause now under review was properly dismissed. If, as both the bankruptcy and state
courts concluded, the contract was terminated by the involuntary bankruptcy proceeding no legal injury resulted.
If, on the. other hand, that view of the law was erroneous,
then there was a breach and defendant Gray became liable
for any resulting damage; but he was released therefrom
by his discharge. In this state of the record we will not
enter upon a consideration of the specific reason assigned
by the state court for sustaining the demurrer. No effort
was made by plaintiff in error to secure a review of the
action of the bankruptcy court in the direct way prescribed
by the statute and that result may not be obtained indirectly tihrough the present proceeding. The judgment of
the court below is
Affirmed.

LIEUTENANT COLONEL STEARNS v. BRIGADIER
GENERAL WOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN. DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 647.

Argued December 18, 1914.-Decided January 18, 1915.

The province of courts is to decide real controversies and not to discuss
abstract propositions; and this court cannot be called upon to con-

strue orders, acts of Congress and provisions of the Constitution for
the information of persons whose rights are not directly affected or
threatened, notwithstanding their laudable feeling of deep interest
in the general subject.

