OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

MUTUAL FILM CORPORATION v. INDUSTRIAL
COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 456.

Argued January 6, 7, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Where provisions for censorship of moving pictures relate only to films
intended for exhibition within the.State and they are distributed to
persons within the State for exhibition, there is no burden imposed
on interstate commerce.
The doctrine of original package does not extend to moving picture
films transported, delivered and used as shown in the record in this
case, although manufactured in, and brought from, another State.
Moving picture films brought from another State to be rented or sold
by the consignee to exhibitors, are in consumption and mingled as
much as from their nature they can be with other property of the
State and subject to its otherwise valid police regulation, even before
the consignee delivers to the exhibitor.
The judicial sense, supporting the common sense of this country, sustains the exercise of the police power of regulation of moving picture
exhibitions.
The exhibition of moving pictures is a business, pure and simple,
originated and conducted for profit like other spectacles, and not to
be regarded as part of the press of the country or as organs of public
opinion within the meaning of freedom of speech and publication
guaranteed by the constitution of Ohio.
This court will not anticipate the decision of the state court as to the
application of a police statute of the State to a state of facts not
involved in the record of the case before it. Quwre, whether moving
pictures exhibited in places other than places of amusement should
fall within the provisions of the censorship statute of Ohio.
While administration and legislation are distinct powers and the line
that separates their exercise is not easily defined, the legislature
must declare the policy of the law and fix the legal principles to control in given cases, and an administrative body may be clothed with
power to ascertain facts and conditions to which such policy and
principles apply.
It is impossible to exactly specify such application in every instance, and
the general terms of censorship, while furnishing no exact standard

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

231

Statement of the Case.

of requirements may get precision from the sense 'and experience of
men and become certain and useful guides in reasoning and conduct.
Whether provisions in a state statute clothing a board or Congress
composed of officers from that and other States with power, amount
to such delegation of legislative power as to render the provisions
unconstitutional, will not be determined by this court in a case in
which it appears that such Congress is still non-existent.
The moving picture censorship act of Ohio of 1913 is not in violation of
the Federal Constitution or the constitution of the State of Ohio,
either as depriving the owners of moving pictures of their property
without due process of law or as a burden on interstate' commerce,
or as abridging freedom and liberty of speech and opinion, or as
delegating legislative authority to administrative officers.
215 Fed. Rep. 138i affirmed.
APPEAL from an order denying appellant, herein designated complainant, an interlocutory injunction sought
to restrain the enforcement of an act of the General Assembly of Ohio passed April 16, 1913 (103 Ohio Laws, 399),
creating under the authority and superintendence of the Industrial Commission of the State a board of censors of motion picture films. The motion was presented to three
judges, upon the bill, supporting affidavits and some oral
testimony.
The bill is quite voluminous. It makes the following
attacks upon the Ohio statute: (1) The statute is in
violation of §§ 5, 16 and 19 of article 1 of the constitution
of the State in that it deprives complainant of a remedy
by due process of law by placing it in the power of the
board of censors to determine from standards fixed by
itself what films conform to the statute, and thereby deprives complainant of a judicial determination of a violation of the law. (2) The statute is in violation of articles 1 and 14 of .the amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, and of § 11 of article 1 of the constitution
of Ohio in that it restrains complainant and other persons
from freely writing and publishing their sentiments. (3)
It attempts to give -the.board of censors legislative power,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

which is vested only in the General Assembly of the State,
subject to a referendum vote of the people, in that it gives
to the board the power to determine the application of
the statute without fixing any standard by which the
board shall be guided in its determination, and places it
in the power of the board, acting with similar boards in
other States, to reject, upon any whim or caprice, any
film which may be presented, and power to determine the
legal status of the foreign board or boards, in conjunction
with which it is empowered to act.
The business of the complainant and the description,
use, object and effect of motion pictures and other films
ontained in the bill, stated narratively, are as follows:
Complainant is engaged in the business of purchasing,
selling and leasing films, the films being produced in other
States than Ohio, and in European and other foreign
countries. The film consists of a series of instantaneous
photographs or positive prints of action upon the stage or
in the open. By being projected upon a screen with great
rapidity there appears to the eye an illusion of motion.
They depict dramatizations of standard novels, exhibiting
many subjects of scientific interest, the properties of
matter, the growth of the various forms of animal and
plant life, and explorations and travels; also evefits of
historical and, current interest--the same events which are
described in words and by photographs in newspapers,
weekly periodicals, magazines and other publications, of
which photographs are promptly secured a few days after
the events which they depict happen; thus regularly furnishing and publishing news through the medium of motion pictures under the name of "Mutual Weekly."
Nothing is depicted of a harmful or immoral character.
The complainant is selling and has sold during the past
year for exhibition in Ohioan average of fifty-six positive
prints of films per week to film exchanges doing business
in that State, the average value thereof being the sum of

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v.'OHI0
236 U. S.

INDUS'L COMM.

233

Statement of the Case.

$100, aggregating $6,000 per week or $300,000 per anmum.
In addition to selling films in Ohio complainant has a
film exchange in Detroit, Michigan, from which it rents
or leases large quantities to exhibitors in the latter State
and in Ohio. The business of that exchange and 'those in
Ohio is to purchase films from complainant and other
manufacturers of films and rent them to exhibitors for
short periods at stated weekly rentals. The amount of
rentals depends upon the number of reels rented, the frequency of the changes of subject, and the age or novelty
of the reels rented. The frequency of exhibition is described. It is the custom of the business, observed by all
manufacturers, that a subject shall be released or published in all theaters on the same day, which is known as
release day, and the age or novelty of the film depends
upon the proximity of the day of exhibition to such release day. Films so shown have never been shown in
public, and the public to whom they appeal is therefore
unlimited. Such public becomes more and more limited
by each additional exhibition of the reel.
The amount of business in renting or leasing from the
Detroit exchange for exhibition in Ohio aggregates the
sum of $1,000 per week.
Complainant has on hand at its Detroit exchange at
least 2,500 reels of films which it intends to and will
exhibit in Ohio and which it will be impossible to exhibit
unless the same shall have been approved by the board
of censors. Other exchanges have films, duplicate prints of
a large part of complainant's films, for the purpose of
selling and leasing to parties residing in Ohio, and the
statute of the State will require their examination and the
payment of a fee therefor. The amounts of complainant's
purchases are stated, and that complainant will be compelled to bear the expense of having them censored because
its customers will not purchase or hire uncensored films.
The business of selling and leasing films from its offices

OCTOBER TERM,. 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

outside of the State of Ohio to purchasers and exhibitors
within the State is interstate commerce, which will be
seriously burdened by the exaction of the fee for censorship, which is not properly an inspection tax and the proceeds of which will be largely in excess of the cost of enforcing the statute, and will in no event be paid to the
Treasury of the United States.
The board has demanded of complainant that it submit
its films to censorship and threatens, unless complainant
complies with the demand, to arrest any and all persons
who seek to place on exhibition any film not so censored
or approved by the censor congress on and after November 4, 1913, the date to which the act was extended. It
is physically impossible to comply with such demand and
physically impossible for the board to censor the films
with such rapidity as to enable complainant to proceed
with its business, and the delay consequent upon such
examination would cause great and irreparable injury to
such business and would involve a multiplicity of suits.
There were affidavits filed in support of the bill and
some testimony taken orally. One of the affidavits showed
the manner of shipping and distributing the films and
was as follows:
"The films are shipped by the manufacturers to the
film exchanges enclosed in circular metal boxes, each of
which metal boxes is in turn enclosed in a fibre or wooden
container. The film is in most cases wrapped around a
spool or core in a circle within the metal case. Sometimes
the film is received by the film exchange wound on a reel,
which consists of a cylindrical core with circular flanges
to prevent the film from slipping off the core, and when
so wound on the reel is also received in metal boxes, as
above described. When the film is not received on a reel,
it is, upon receipt, taken from the metal box, wound on a
reel and then replaced in the metal box. So wound and so
enclosed in metal boxes, the films are shipped by the film

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

235

Statement of the Case.

exchanges to their customers. The customers take the
film as it is wound on the reel from the metal box and
exhibit the pictures in their projecting machines, which
are so arranged as to permit of the unwinding of the film
from the reel on which it is shipped. During exhibition,
the reel of film is unwound from one reel and rewound in
reverse order on a second reel. After exhibition, it must
be again unwound from the second reel from its reverse
position and replaced on the original reel in its proper
position. After the exhibitions for the day are over, the
film is replaced in the metal box and returned to the film
exchange, and this process is followed from day to day
during the life of the film.
"All shipments of films from manufacturers to film
exchanges, from film exchanges to exhibitors, and from
exhibitors back to film exchanges, are made in accordance
with regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
one of which provides as follows:
"'Moving picture films must be placed in metal cases,
packed in strong and tight wooden boxes or fibrewood
pails. '"
Another of the affidavits divided the business as follows:
"The motion-picture business is conducted in three
branches; that is to say, by manufacturers, distributors,
and exhibitors, the distributors being known as film exchanges.

.

.

.

Film is manufactured and produced

in lengths of about one thousand feet, which are placed
on reels, and the market price per reel of film of a thousand
feet in length is at the rate of ten cents per foot, or one hundred dollars. Manufacturers do not sell their film direct to
exhibitors, but sell to film exchanges, and the film exchanges
do not resell the film to exhibitors, but rent it out to them."
After stating the popularity of motion pictures and
the demand of the public for new ones and the great expense their purchase would be to exhibitors, the affidavit
proceeds as follows:

OCTO3ER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

236 U. S.

"For that reason film exchanges came into existence, and
film exchanges such as the Mutual Film Corporation are
like clearing houses or circulating libraries, in that they
purchase the film and rent it out to different exhibitors.
One reel of film being made to-day serves in many theatres
from day to day until it is worn out. The film exchange,
in renting out the films, supervises their circulation."
An affidavit was filed made by the "general secretary
of the national board of censorship of motion pictures,
whose office is at No. 50 Madison Avenue, New York
City." The "national board," it is averred, "is an organization maintained by voluntary contributions, whose object is to improve the moral quality of motion pictures."
Attached to the affidavit was a list of subjects submitted
to the board which are "classified according to the nature
of said subjects into scenic, geographic, historical, classic,
educational and propagandistic."
Mr. William B. Sanders and Mr. Walter N. Seligsberg,
with whom Mr. Harold T. Clark was on the brief, for appellants:
The Federal courts have jurisdiction to decide all the
constitutional questions, whether Federal or state, presented by the records. Ohio R. & W. R. R. v. Dittey,
232 U. S. 578; Siler v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 213 U. S.
175, 191.
Appellants are entitled to invoke the protection of
the constitutional guaranties of freedom of publication
and liberty of the press as fully as any person with whom
they do business could do. Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S.
501, at pp. 519-521; Collins v. New Hampshire, 171 U. S.
30; Caldwell v. North Carolina,187 U. S. 622; Crenshaw v.
Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389, 397; Kahn v. Cincinnati Times
Star, 10 Oh. Dec. 599, aff'd 52 Oh. St. 662.
Appellants' motion pictures are publications and entitled as such to the protection afforded by the freedom

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

237

Argument for Appellants.

of publication guaranty containedp in § 11, Art. I of the
Ohio constitution. Kalem v.. Harper Bros., 222 U. S. 55,
60; Harper Bros. v. Kalem, 169 Fed. Rep. 61; Daly v.
Webster, 56 Fed. Rep. 483; Dailey v. San Francisco Superior Court, 112 California, 94; United States v. Wtlliams,
3 Fed. Rep. 484; United States v. Loftis, 12 Fed. Rep. 671;
LeRoy v. Jamison, 15 Fed. Cas. 373.
Appellants' motion pictures constitute part of "the
press" of Ohio within the comprehensive meaning of
that term. They play an increasingly important part
in the spreading of knowledge and the molding of public
opinion upon every kind of political, educational, religious,
economic and social question. The regular publication of
new films under the name of "Mutual Weekly" is clearly
a press enterprise.
See § 11, Art I, Ohio constitution, providing that "Every
citizen may freely speak, write and publish his sentiments
on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of the right;
and no law shall be passed to restrain or abridge the
liberty of speech, or of the press.
The Censorship Law violates § 11 in that it imposes a
previous restraint upon freedom of publication, which
applies to all publications whether made through the
medium of speech, writing, acting on the stage, motion
pictures, or through any other mode of expression now
known or which may hereafter be discovered or invented,
and upon the liberty of the press. Dopp v. Doll, 9 0. Dec.
Rep. 428; Judson v. Zurhorst, 10 0. C. C. (N. S.) 289;
S. C., aff'd, 78 0. S. 446; Cooley's Const. Law, 3d ed.,
Ch. XIV, §V, especially 309; Story on the Constitution, 5th
ed., § 1182; Black's Const. Law, 3d ed., 658; Paterson on
Liberty of Press, pp. 10 and 41; Cooley's Blackstone,
4th ed., p. 1326; Pattersonv. Colorado, 205 U. S. 454, 462;
Dailey v. Superior Court, 112 California, 94; Ex parte
Neil, 32 Texas Criminal Court, 275; Cowan v. Fairbrother (N. C.), 32 L. R. A. 829, 836; Ulster Square Dealer

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellants.

236 U. S.

v. Fowler, 111 N. Y. Supp. 16; Life Association v. Boogher,
3 Mo. App. 173; Clothing Co. v. Watson, 168 Missouri,
153; Atchison &c. Ry. v. Brown, 80 Kansas, 312; Rawle
on Constitution, 2d ed., pp. 123, 124; Levert v. Daily
States Pub. Co., 123 Louisiana, 594; Sweeney v. Baker, 13
W. Va. 182; Williams Printing Co. v. Saunders, 113 Virginia, 156; Williams v. Black, 24 S. Dak. 501.
The constitutional guaranties are not limited to forms
of publication known at the time the Constitution was
adopted. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 530;
Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 746, 752; Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 385; In re Debs, 158 U. S. 164, 591.
The censorship law is not sustainable as a plan for the
regulating of theatres by a system of granting or withholding licenses, because appellants' films are exhibited
in churches, libraries, factories, store windows, before
open air gatherings, etc. Moreover, even as to theaters,
the surrender of the constitutional guaranty of freedom of
publication could not be required as a condition precedent
to the granting of a license. Dist. of Col. v. Saville, 8 D.
C. App. 581; People v. Steele, 231 Illinois, 340; Chicago
v. Weber, 246 Illinois, 304; Indianapolis v. Miller, 168
Indiana, 285; William Fox Co. v. McClellan, 62 Misc. 100;
Ex parte Quarg, 84 Pac. Rep. 766; Empire City Trotting
Club v. State Racing Commission, 190 N. Y. 31.
The censorship law cannot be sustained as a proper
exercise of the police power, because it directly contravenes the constitutional guaranties of freedom of publication and liberty of the press. Board of Health v.
Greenville, 86 Oh. St. 1, 21; Lawton v. Steele, 152, U. S.
133, 137; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Sperry
ex rel. v. Sperry & Hutchinson, 94 Nebraska, 785.
The Ohio Motion Picture Censorship violates the provisions of § 11, Art. I of the constitution of Ohio, in that
it attempts to delegate legislative power. Harmon v.
State, 66 0. S. 249; Toledo v. Winters, 21 0. Dec. 171;

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

239

Opinion of the Court.

Ex parte Sam Lewis, 14 0. N. P. (N. S.) 609; Noel v.
People, 187 Illinois, 591; Kerr v. Ross, 5 App. D. C. 441;
State v. Burdge (Wis.), 37 L. R. A. 157, 161; Mathews v.
Murphy, 63 S. W. Rep. 785.
Mr. Robert M. Morgan, with whom Mr. Timothy S.
Hogan, Attorney. General of the State of Ohio, Mr. James
I. Boulger and Mr. Clarence D. Laylin were on the brief,
for appellees.
See brief on behalf of State of Kansas in No. 597, post,
p. 253.
By leave of court, Mr. Waldo G. Morse and Mr. Jacob
Schechter filed a brief as amici curice in behalf of the Universal Film Manufacturing Company.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
Complainant directs its argument to three propositions:
(1) The statute in controversy imposes an unlawful burden
on interstate commerce; (2) it violates the freedom of
speech and publication guaranteed by § 11, art. 1, of the
constitution of the State of Ohio; 1 and (3) it.attempts to
delegate legislative power to censors and to other boards
to determine whether the statute offends in the particulars
designated.
It is necessary to consider only §§ 3, 4 and 5. Section 3
makes it the duty of the board to examine and censor motion picture films to be publicly exhibited and displayed
'"Section 11. Every citizen may freely speak, write, and publish his
sentiments on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of the right;
and no law shall be passed to restrain or abridge the liberty of speech,
or of the press. In all criminal prosecutions for libel, the truth may be
given in evidence to the jury, and if it shall appear to the jury that the
matter charged as libelous is true, and was published with good motives, and for justifiable ends, the party shall be acquitted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in the State of Ohio. The films are required to be exhibited
to the board before they are delivered to the exhibitor
for exhibition, for which a fee is charged.
Section 4. "Only such films as are in the judgment and
discretion of the board of censors of a moral, educational or
amusing and harmless character shall be passed and approved by such board." The films are required to be
stamped or designated in a proper manner.
Section 5. The board may work in conjunction with
censor boards of other States as a censor cc-ngress, and
the action of such congress in approving or rejecting films
shall be considered as the action of the state board, and all
films passed, approved, stamped and numbered by such
congress, when the fees therefor are paid shall be considered approved by the board.
By § 7 a penalty is imposed for each exhibition of films
without the approval of the board, and by § 8 any person
dissatisfied with the order of the board is given the same
rights and remedies for hearing and reviewing, amendment
or vacation of the order "as is provided in the case of persons dissatisfied with the orders of the industrial commission."
The censorship, therefore, is only of films intended for
exhibition in Ohio, and we can immediately put to one
side the contention that it imposes a burden on interstate
commerce. It is true that according to the allegations
of the bill some of the films of complainant are shipped
from Detroit, Michigan, but they are distributed to exhibitors, purchasers, renters and lessors in Ohio, for exhibition in Ohio, and this determines the application of
the statute. In other words, it is only films which are "to
be publicly exhibited and displayed in the State of Ohio"
which are required to be examined and censored. It would
be straining the doctrine of original packages to say that
the films retain that form and composition even when unrolling and exhibiting to audiences, or, being ready for

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

241

Opinion of the Court.

renting for the purpose of exhibition within the State,
could not be disclosed to the. state officers. If this be so,
whatever the power of the State to prevent the exhibition
of films not approved-and for the purpose of this contention we must assume the power is otherwise plenaryfilms brought from another State, and only because so
brought, would be exempt from the power, and films
made in the State would be subject to it. There must be
some time when the films are subject to the law of the
State, and necessarily when they are in the hands of the
exchanges ready to be rented to exhibitors or have passed
to the latter, they are in consumption, and mingled as
much as from their nature they can be with other property
of the State.
It is true that the statute requires them to be submitted
to the board before they are delivered to the exhibitor,
but we have seen that the films are shipped to "exchanges"
and by them rented to exhibitors, and the "exchanges"
are described as "nothing more or less than circulating
libraries or clearing houses." And one film "serves in
many theatres from day to day until it is worn out.".
The next contention is that the statute violates the
freedom of speech and publication guaranteed by the Ohio
constitution. In its discussion counsel have gone into a
very elaborate description of moving picture exhibitions
and their many useful purposes as graphic expressions of
opinion and sentiments, as exponents of policies, as
teachers of science and history' as useful, interesting,
amusing, educational and moral. And a list of the "campaigns," as counsel call them, which may be carried on is
given. We may concede the praise. It is not questioned
by the Ohio statute and under its comprehensive description," campaigns" of an infinite variety may be conducted.
Films of a "moral, educational or amusing and harmless
character shall be passed and approved" are the words
of the statute. No exhibition, therefore, or "campaign"
VOL. ccxxxvi-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of complainant will be prevented if its pictures have those
qualities. Therefore, however missionary of opinion films
are or may become, however educational or entertaining,
there is no impediment to their value or effect in the Ohio
statute. But they may be used for evil, and against that
possibility the statute was enacted. Their power of amusement and, it may be, education, the audiences they assemble, not of women alone nor of men alone, but together,
not of adults only, but of children, make them the more
insidious in corruption, by a pretense of worthy purpose
or if they should degenerate from worthy purpose. Indeed, we may go beyond that possibility. They take their
attraction from the general interest, eager and wholesome
it may be, in their subjects, but a prurient interest may be
excited and appealed to. Besides, there are some things
which should not have pictorial representation in public
places and to all audiences. And not only the State of
Ohio but other States have considered it to be in the
interest of the public morals and welfare to supervise
moving picture exhibitions. We would have to shut our
eyes to the facts of the world to regard the precaution unreasonable or the legislation to effect it a mere wanton interference with personal liberty.
We do not understand that a possibility of an evil employment of films is-denied, but a freedom from the censorship of the law and a precedent right of exhibition are
asserted, subsequent responsibility only, it is contended,
being incurred for abuse. In other words, as we have
seen, the constitution of Ohio is invoked and an exhibition
of films is assimilated to the freedom of speech, writing
and publication assured by that instrument and for the
abuse of which only is there responsibility, and, it is insis.ted, that as no law may be passed "to restrain the liberty of speech or of the press," no law may be passed to
subject moving pictures to censorship before their exhibition.

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

243

Opinion of the Court.

We need not pause to dilate upon the freedom of opinion
and its expression, and whether by speech, writing or
printing. They are too certain to need discussion-of
such conceded value as to need no supporting praise. Nor
can there be any 'doubt of their breadth nor that their
underlying safeguard is, to use the words of another, "that
opinion is free and that conduct alone is amenable to the
law."
Are moving pictures within the principle, as it is contended they are? They, indeed, may be mediums of
thought, but so are many things. So is the theatre, the
circus, and all other shows and spectacles; and their performances may be thus brought by the like reasoning
under the same immunity from repression or supervision
as the public press,-made the same agencies of civil
liberty.
Counsel have not shrunk from this extension of their
contention and cite a case in this court where the titl6
of drama was accorded to pantomime; I and such and other
spectacles are said by counsel to be publications of ideas,
satisfying the definition of the dictionaries,-that is, and
we quote counsel, a means of making or announcing publicly something that otherwise might have remained
private or unknown,-and this being peculiarly the purpose and effect of moving pictures they come directly,
it is contended, under the protection of the Ohio constitution.
The first impulse of the mind is to reject the contention.
We immediately feel that the argument is wrong or
strained which extends the guaranties of free opinion and
speech to the multitudinous shows which are advertised
on the bill-boards of our cities and towns and which regards them as emblems of public safety, to use the words
of Lord Camden, quoted by counsel, and which seeks to
I Kalem v. Harper Bros., 222 U. S."55.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

bring motion pictures and other spectacles into practicaland legal similitude to a free press and liberty of opinion.
The judicial sense supporting the common sense of the
country is against the contention. As pointed out by the
District Court, the police power is familiarly exercised
in granting or withholding licenses for theatrical performances as a means of their regulation. . The court cited the
following cases: Marmet v. State, 45 Ohio, 63, 72, 73.; Baker
v. Cincinnati,11 Ohio St. 534; Commonwealth v. McGann,
213 Massachusetts, 213, 215; People v. Steele, 231 Illinois,
340, 344, 345.
The exercise of the power upon moving picture exhibitions has been sustained. Greenberg v. Western Turf
Ass'n, 148 California, 126; Laurelle v. Bush, 17 Cal. App.
409; State v. Loden, 117 Maryland; 373; Block v. Chicago,
239 Illinois, 251; Higgins v. Lacroix, 119 Minnesota, 145.
See also State v. Morris,.76 Atl. Rep-479; People v. Gaynor,
137 N. Y. S. 196, 199; McKenzie v. McClellan, 116 N. Y. S.
645, 646.
It seems not to have occurred to anybody in the cited
cases that freedom of opinion was represseo in the exertion of the power which was illustrated.
'he rights of
property were only considered as involved. It cannot be
put out of view that the exhibition of moving pictures is a
business pure and simple, originated and conducted for
profit, like other spectacles, not to be regarded, nor intended to be regarded by the Ohio constitution; we think,
as part of the press of the country or as organs of public
opinion. They are mere representations of events, of
ideas and sentiments published and known, vivid, useful
and entertaining no doubt, but, as we have said, capable
of evil, having power for it, the greater because of their
attractiveness and manner of exhibition. It was this
capability and power, and it may be in experience of them,
that induced the State of Ohio, in addition to prescribing
penalties for immoral exhibitions, as it does in its Criminal

MUTUAL FILM CORP. v.' OHIO INDUS'L COMM. 245
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Code, to require censorship before exhibition, as it does
by the act under review. We cannot regard this as beyond
the power of government.
It does not militate against the strength of these considerations that motion pictures may be used to amuse and
instruct in other places than theatres-in churches, for
instance, and in Sunday schools and public schools. Nor
are we called upon to say on this record whether such
exceptions would be within the provisions of the statute
nor to anticipate that it will be so declared by the state
courts or so enforced by the state officers.
The next contention of complainant is that the Ohio
statute is a delegation of legislative power and void for
that if not for the other reasons charged against it, which
we have discussed. While administration and legislation
are quite distinct powers, the line which separates exactly
their exercise is not easy to define in words. It is best
recognized in illustrations. Undoubtedly the legislature
must declare the policy of the law and fix the legal principles which are to control in given cases; but an administrative body may be investqd with the power to ascertain
the facts and conditions to which the policy and principles
apply. If this could not be done there would be infinite
confusion in the laws, and in an effort to detail and to particularize, they would miss sufficiency both in provision
and execution.
The objection to the statute is that it furnishes no
standard of what is educational, moral, amusing or harmless, and hence leaves decision to arbitrary judgment,
whim and caprice; or, aside from those extremes, leaving
it to the different views which might be entertained of the
effect of the pictures, permitting the "personal equation"
to enter, resulting "in unjust discrimination against some
propagandist film," while others might be approved without question. But the statute by its provisions guards
against such variant judgments, and its terms, like other

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

general terms, get precision from the sense and experience
of men and become certain and useful guides in reasoning
and conduct. The exact specification of the instances of
their application would be as impossible as the attempt
would be futile. Upon such sense and experience, therefore, the law properly relies. This has many analogies
and direct, examples in cases, and we may cite Gundling v.
Chicago, 177 U. S. 183; Red "C" Oil Manufacturing Co. v.
North Carolina,222 U. S. 380; Bridge Co. v. United States,
216 U. S. 177; Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470. See
also Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86. If this
were not so, the many administrative agencies created by
the state and National governments would be denuded
of their utility and government in some of its most important exercises become impossible.
To sustain the attack upon the statute as a delegation
of legislative power, complainant cites Harmon v. State,
66 Ohio St. 249. In that case a statute of the State committing to a certain officer the duty of issuing a license to
one desiring to act as an engineer if "found trustworthy
and competent," was declared invalid because, as the
court said, no standard was furnished by the General
Assembly as to qualification, and no specification as to
wherein the applicant should be trustworthy and competent, but all was "left to the opinion, finding and caprice
of the examiner." The case can be distinguished.. Besides, later cases have recognized the difficulty of exact
separation of the powers of government, and announced
the principle that legislative power is completely exercised
where the law "is perfect, final and decisive in all of its
parts, and the discretion given only relates to its execution." Cases are cited in illustration. And the principle
finds further illustration in the decisions of the courts of
lesser authority but which exhibit the juridical sense of
the State as to the delegation of powers.
Section 5 of the statute, which provides for a censor

MUTUAL FILM CO. v. OHIO INDUS'L COMM.
236 U. S.

247

Statement of the Case.

congress of the censor board and the boards of other
States, is referred to in emphasis of complainant's objection that the statute delegates legislative power. But, as
complainant says, such congress is "at present nonexistent and nebulous," and we are, therefore, not called
upon to anticipate its action or pass upon the validity of §5.
We may close this topic with a quotation of the very
apt comment of the District Court upon the statute.
After remarking that the language of the statute "might
have been extended by descriptive and illustrative words,"
but doubting that it would have been the more intelligible
and that probably by being more restrictive might be
more easily thwarted, the court said: "In view of the
range of subjects which complainants claim to have already compassed, not to speak of the natural development
that will ensue, it would be next to impossible to devise
language that would be at once comprehensive and
automatic."
In conclusion we may observe that the Ohio statute
gives a review by the courts of the State of the decision
of the board of censors.
Decree affrmed.

MUTUAL FILM COMPANY v. INDUSTRIAL
COMMISSION OF OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 457.

Argued January 6, 7, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Decided on authority of Mutual Film Corporationv. IndustrialComm.
of Ohio, ante, p. 230.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

