TYLER CO. v. LUDLOW-SAYLOR WIRE CO.
236 U. S.

723

Argument for Appellant and Petitioner.

upon both carrier and shipper strictly to observe lawful
tariffs. We determine only the narrow point adequate for
disposition of this cause upon the particular facts revealed
by an unsatisfactory record.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

W. S. TYLER COMPANY v. LUDLOW-SAYLOR
WIRE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 441, 622. Argued December 15, 1914; petition for writ of certiorari
submitted December 15, 1914.-Decided March 22, 1915.
Paying an agent, who is also employed by another corporation, to
solicit orders to be executed at its home office and sharing expenses
with another corporation of an office in the District in which a suit
for infringement of patent is brought, held in this case not to amount
to having a regular and established place of business which would
subject a foreign corporation to the jurisdiction of the Federal court

under the act of March 31, 1897, c. 395, 29 Stat. 695.
Where an agent solicits an order in one State and forwards it to his
principal at its home office in another State and the goods are shipped
direct by the principal the sale is consummated in the latter State
and does not constitute an infringement of patent in the former
State.
Where appeal is properly prosecuted and certiorari is also asked from
the same judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the latter will
be denied.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles C. Linthicum, with whom Mr. J. Negley
Cooke and Mr. D. Anthony Usina were on the brief, for
appellant and petitioner:
There was an established place of business and an in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

fringement committed in New York. American Stoker
Co. v. Underfeed Stoker Co., 182 Fed. Rep. 642; Chadeloid
Chemical Co. v. Chicago Finishing Co., 180 Fed. Rep. 770;
Chicago Tool Co. v. Phila. Tool Co., 118 Fed. Rep. 852;
Westinghouse Co. v. Stanley Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 641; S. C.,
121 Fed. Rep. 101.
Mr. James P. Dawson and Mr. William E. Garvin for
appellee and respondent, submitted.
Memorandum opinion by MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS,
by direction of the court.
Alleging infringement of its patent and asking appropriate relief appellant, an Ohio corporation, instituted this
proceeding in equity against the Ludlow-Saylor Wire
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of
Missouri, in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York. Objection to the jurisdiction was sustained and a direct appeal to this court allowed.
The cause is properly here upon the appeal and the
application for certiorari heretofore presented (No. 622)
must be denied.
The act of March 3, 1897, c. 395, 29 Stat. 695, provides:
"That in suits brought for the infringement of letters
patent the circuit [now district] courts of the United
States shall have jurisdiction, in law or in equity, in the
district of which the defendant is an inhabitant, or in any
district in which the defendant, whether a person, partnership or corporation, shall have committed acts of infringement and have a regular and established place of business. .
Evidence was introduced to show that appellee had the
requisite place of business in New York City and also had
committed an act of infringement by making a sale there.
The trial court held neither claim was established.

TYLER CO. v. LUDLOW-SAYLOR WIRE CO. 725
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Wire Company is a manufacturer of screens, with
plant and home office at St. Louis, Missouri. For some
eighteen months in 1911 and 1912 it employed Guerin,
upon whom process was served, as "Eastern Representative," paying him a small salary, commission on sales, and
traveling expenses. During this period he was also employed by another corporation which rented a room in the
building at No. 30 Church Street, New York City, and
there he maintained headquarters as representative of
both concerns-the rent and stenographer's wages being
apportioned between them according to agreement. His
duty to appellee was "to solicit orders [and] forward them
when received to the home office for execution." Considering all the facts disclosed we think them insufficient to
support the allegation that appellee had a regular and
established place of business at 30 Church Street within
the intendment of the statute. Green v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railway, 205 U. S. 530, 533.
The circumstances attending only one sale appear in
the record and this was negotiated by the purchaser in
order that it might afford the basis for a suit. Guerin
received and forwarded, and his principal accepted, the
order for goods which were thereafter manufactured and
shipped by express to the purchaser in New York City.
This sale was consummated at St. Louis and did not constitute an infringement of appellant's patent within the
district where suit was brought. Westinghouse Electric &
Mfg. Co. v. Stanley Electric Mfg. Co., 116 Fed. Rep. 641.
The decree is
Affirmed.

