OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Petitioners.

236 U. S.

NEWMAN ET AL., COMMISSIONERS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, v. LYNCHBURG INVESTMENT CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 163.

Argued Marcd 3, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

The fact that a statute requiring notice has been construed in a number
of cases in the jurisdiction as meaning the method used in the case
is an important element to be considered by the courts in construing
it.
The notice required by ยง 491 c of subd. 1 of Ch. 15 of the Code of the
District of Columbia requiring public notice of not less than twenty
days to be given of the institution of a condemnation proceeding
construed as meaning that notice shall be given twenty days before
the time set and not that it shall be given on twenty distinct days
before that time.
This court assumes that a special act directing condemnation proceedings adjudicates the benefits as a whole and leaves open all questions as to any particular lots. It is error for the trial court not to
instruct that the burden is on the District to establish by preponderance of evidence the extent of special benefits accruing to a
particular parcel.
The jury in a condemnation proceeding should be instructed as to
their duty in regard to considering dedications of land taken.
Assessments for benefits cannot be separated,and error in charging in
that respect cannot be corrected, by reversal of the judgment in part.
Although the intermediate appellate court may have erred in basing
its reversal of the lower court on the matter of most general importance in a case in this court on certiorari if its judgment was
correct on other points it should be affirmed,
40 App. D. C. 130, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Conrad H. Syme and Mr. James Francis Smith for
petitioners:

DIST. OF COL. v. LYNCHBURG CO.
236 U. S.

Argument for Petitioners.

The notice as published satisfied the requirements of
the law.
In regard to dedications no instructions were requested
nor exception taken. Therefore the judgment should not
be reviewed. Met. R. R. Co. v. District of Columbia, 195
U. S. 332.
The reasonableness of the verdict is a question for trial
judge and is not reviewable. Col. Heights Realty Co. v.
McFarland, 217 U. S. 547, 560.
No injustice is shown.
The burden of proof is not upon the petitioners. Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548; Wight v. Davidson, 181 U. S.
371; Henderson v. Macfarland, 33 Apps. D. C. 317; Baltimore v. Smith, 80 Maryland, 458.
The vacation of verdict in toto, notwithstanding two
parties only excepting, was error. Briscoe v. MacFarland,
32 App. D. C. 167; ยง 491h of D. C. Code.
In support of these contentions see also Aldis v. South
Park, 171 Illinois, 424; Allen v. Kerr, 13 Lea (Tenn.), 256;
Andrews v. Ohio & Miss. Ry., 14 Indiana, 169; Armstrong
v. Scott, 3 Greene (Iowa), 433; In re Bassford, 50 N. Y.
510; Boswell v. Otis, 9 How. 336, 350; Bouldin's Case, 23
Maryland, 328; Central Savings Bank v. Baltimore, 71
Maryland, 515; Dologny v. Smith, 3 Louisiana, 418, 423;
District of Columbia v. Cemetery, 5 App. D. C. 497; Drainage District v. Campbell, 154 Missouri, 151; German Bank
v. Stumpf, 73 Missouri, 311, 314; Harrison v. Newman,
71 Kansas, 325; Jenkins v. Pierce, 98 Illinois, 646; Johnson v. Dorsey, 7 Gill, 269, 286; Land Co. v. Loan Co., 52
Nebraska, 410; Leffler v. Armstrong, 4 Iowa, 487; Lewis
on Eminent Domain, 579; Baltimore v. Little Sisters, 56
Maryland, 400; McGilvery v. Lewiston, 13 Idaho, 338;
Muskingum Turnpike v. Ward, 13 Ohio, 120; Paige &
Jones on Taxation, 763; P., W. & B. R. R. v. Shipley, 71
Maryland, 515; Royal Ins. Co. v. South Park, 175 Illinois,
491; Stine v. Wilkson, 10 Missouri, 75; Washington v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Bassett, 15 R. I. 563; Weld v. Rees, 48 Illinois, 428; White
v. Malcolm, 15 Maryland, 529.
Mr. Joseph W. Cox and Mr. W. C. Sullivan, with whom
Mr. J. J. Darlington,Mr. A. E. L. Leckie and Mr. John A.
Kratz were on the brief, for respondents:
Failure to consider dedications in making assessments
of benefits as directed by statute requires the verdict of
the jury to be set aside.
Injustice will result to the respondents if verdict is
allowed to stand.
The provision of the Code which was disregarded in the
making of assessments is mandatory, and such disregard
necessitates the setting aside of the verdict.
Even if the provision were not mandatory, the plain
error involved in disregarding it requires that the verdict
be set aside.
The notice as published was not sufficient to authorize
the making of assessments.
The burden of proof was upon the District to show the
extent of benefits.
Numerous authorities sustain these contentions.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a proceeding by the petitioners for the extension and widening of Colorado Avenue and Kennedy Street
in the District of Columbia, under a special act of June 30,
1911, c. 1, 37 Stat. 1. A jury was summoned, assessed
the damages for the land to be condemned for the purpose,
found that the lots described in a schedule would be benefited to the amounts set forth, and assessed those sums
against them. The verdict was objected to and excepted
to by the respondents, but was confirmed by the Supreme
Court. On appeal the judgment was reversed by the,
Court of Appeals of the District. 40 App. D. C. 130

DIST. OF COL. v. LYNCHBURG CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first ground of reversal was that the notice of the
proceedings was insufficient, which,. if true, will cast a
cloud upon a great number of condemnations that have
been made heretofore. The condemnation is a proceeding
in rem under and in accordance with subchapter one, of
chapter 15, of the District Code. By ยง 491c of that subchapter the court is to "cause public notice of not less
than twenty days to be given of the institution of such proceeding, by advertisement in three daily newspapers published in the District of Columbia," etc. The order in
this case directs publication" once in the Washington Law
Reporter and on six secular days in the Washington Evening Star, the Washington Herald, and the Washington
Post, . . . commencing at least twenty days before"
January 9,1912, the date fixed for appearance. The objection and the decision of the Court of Appeals was that the
order did not follow the statute because the statute requires that notice shall be published in three daily papers
for at least twenty days.
The respondents are concerned only as parties assessed
for the betterment. As such they could not be mentioned
by name in the notice since by the statute the jury decides
what land is benefited as well as the sum with which it
shall be charged. Section 491g. It is necessary, of course,
that due precautions should be taken to see that they get
notice in fact. This consideration together with the requirement that the publication shall be in a daily paper
and its view of the meaning of the words led the Court of
Appeals to the conclusion to which it came. Nevertheless
we are of a different opinion. The statute means that
notice shall be given either not less than twenty days
before the time set or on twenty distinct days before that
time. We think it means the former. As to the usage of
speech, when we speak of giving a week's or a month's
notice we mean a notice that is a week or a month before
the event. The fact that the statute has been so construed

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

in a great number of cases in the District, a list of which
has been submitted to us, is important not only as confirmation of our view but as a reason for taking it if we
felt more doubt than we do. It seems to be the prevailing
rule in the state courts although there are decisions on the
other side. Publication in daily papers is explained sufficiently by their being the papers that business men are
most likely to read. It was said that construed as we construe it the statute would be satisfied if a single publication
were made a year before the day. The answer is that the
court fixes the notice and will see that no injustice is done.
It should be observed further that the statute itself is
notice of everything except the time and place of the proceeding. It locates exactly upon the face of the earth the
extensions to be made and gives their length and width.
We are of opinion that the order of publication complied
with the law.
The other questions brought before us by the certiorari
are of no general importance and may be disposed of in a
few words. They concern the conduct of the trial, mnatters
that in the absence of very clear error we leave to the local
courts. It was held to be error not to instruct the jury
that the burden was upon the District to establish by a
preponderance of evidence the extent of the special benefits accruing to the property to be charged. We may assume that the special act has adjudicated the extent of
the benefits as a whole, Briscoe v. District of Columbia,
221 U. S. 547, 551, but it leaves open all questions as to
any particular lot. Those elements of the petitioners'
case remained for them to prove.
A matter more insisted upon by the Court of Appeals
is that the jury were not instructed to take into consideratiori the dedication of land for the improvement and the
value of the land so dedicated, as the Code requires that
they should be. Section 491g. The court was satisfied
from an examination of the record that the jury did not

DAVIS v. VIRGINIA.
236 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

consider valuable dedications made by the respondents.
The argument is very strong that the court was right on
the matter of fact, and as the jury were not instructed
as to their duty we accept the conclusion of the Court of
Appeals. We also agree with that court that the assessments for benefits cannot be separated and therefore that
the error cannot be corrected by a reversal of the judgment
in part. The result is that although the Court of Appeals
erred upon the matter of most general importance its
judgment reversing that of the Supreme Court must be
affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

DAVIS v. COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 184.

Argued March 9, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

The business of taking in one State orders for portraits made in another State is interstate commerce, and if the original order contemplates an option on the part of the purchaser to have a frame also
sent from the other State, the business is one affair and exempt from
imposition of license fee by the State in which the sale is made.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. John Winston Read and Mr. Thomas J. Christian
for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Christopher B. Garnett, with whom Mr. John Garland Pollard, Attorney General of the State of Virginia,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.

