OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

which is in the record and is referred to by both parties,
this is merely a statement of the condition of the record
title. It does not in any way enlarge or purport to enlarge
the scope of the original transaction. The mortgage of
course bound the land in a certain sense, because the
crops were land until they were severed. Williamson v.
Richardson, 31 La. An. 685. But that was the extent to
which it bound it, and the recital of it in the-registry means
no more. At a later date a registrar declined to recognize
the mortgage as a lien upon the property, on the ground
that it affected only the products to be manufactured in
the plantation. He may have been wrong in his law for
the ieason that we have suggested, but he was plainly
right in his construction of the document. There is no
other recognition needing mention.
As our opinion is that the mortgage bound only the
crops it follows without more that the decree must be
reversed.
Decree reversed.

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 628.

Argued January 8, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

A woman who is transported in violation of the White Slave Traffic
Act of 1910 may be guilty of conspiracy with the person transporting
her to commit a crime against the United States under § 37 of the
Penal Code of March 4, 1899.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the White
Slave Traffic Act of 1910 and of § 37 of the Penal Code,
are stated in the opinion.

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
236 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States:
The woman subjected to an unlawful interstate transportation may, if a guilty participator, be indicted as a
conspirator with the person causing her to Pe transported.
The court below misapplied the doctrine that, where a
concert of action or a plurality of agents is essential to
complete an offence, such agents cannot be indicted for a
conspiracy to commit that offence.
See Wharton's
Criminal Law, 11th ed., § 1502.
Chadwick v. United States, 141 Fed. Rep. 236; Dietrich
v. United States, 126 Fed. Rep. 664, and United States v.,
N. Y. C. & H. R. R., 146 Fed. Rep. 303, are decisive
against the application of that doctrine to this case. See
also Ex parte Lyman, 202 Fed. Rep. 303, construing § 138,
Penal Code; The Queen v. Whitchurch, 24 L. R. Q. B. Div.
420; State v. Crofford, 133 Iowa, 478; State v. Heugin, 110
Wisconsin, 189, 244; Hannon v. Commonwealth, 14 Pa. St.
226; Thomas v. United States, 156 Fed. Rep. 897, 903;
Drew v. Thaw, 235 U. S. 432, holding that it is perfectly
possible to enact that a conspiracy to accomplish what
an individual is free to do shall be a crime.
Concursus necessarius is not an essential to the offence
defined by § 2 of the White Slave Act. See H. R. No. 47,
61st Cong., 2d Sess., p. 11; Hoke v. United States, 227
U. S. 320; Bennett v. United States, 194 Fed. Rep. 630;
S. C., 227 U. S. 333; United States v. Westman, 182 Fed.
Rep. 1017.
The offence of conspiracy to commit the main offence is
not legally identical with that offence as defined by § 2 of
the White Slave Act. As it is not identical, the woman
transported may be punished, if a guilty party to a criminal plan for her own unlawful transportation. See
Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 342; Heike v. United
States, 227 U. S. 131, 144; United States v. McAndrews Co.,
149 Fed. Rep. 836.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

236 U. S.

The case is not within the exception of concursus necessarius. The rule of diversity of offences, and not the
above exception, must be applied. The case at bar
responds completely to every test under the diversityrule.
As the law stood before the White Slave Act, any person, man or woman, who wilfully planned to commit
any offence against the United States was subject to
punishment under § 37, Penal Code. In creating the new
offence under § 2 of the White Slave Act, Congress had no
purpose to amend the conspiracy statute so that it should
read "any offence against the United States, save only
that defined by the White Slave Traffic Act;" nor any
purpose to give the woman transported a license to plan
with others to devote her body to prohibited sexual uses;
nor any purpose to give her in advance a full pardon for
any such after conspiracy.
Section 37, Penal Code, automatically operates on new
offences from time to time, United States v. Stevenson, 215
U. S.202; Curley v. United States, 130 Fed.Rep. 1, and will
punish persons planning for the commission by another
person of an offence against the United States.
The indictment here contains the essential averment of
a plan and agreement by both defendants that one should
commit the offence of unlawfully transporting defendantan averment that would have no place in an indictment
against the former for unlawfully transporting her. And
had the indictment omitted the first, third, and fourth
overt acts (showing actual after transportation), the
second (the ticket purchase) alone would have completed
the conspiracy offence. On trial none other than the
second overt act need be proven. If the others were
proven, the later consummation of the main offence by
Laudenschleger could not swallow up, or give immunity
to, the earlier completed crime of conspiracy. Heike v.
United States, 227 U. S.131, 144; Curley v. United States,
130 Fed. Rep. 1; United States v. Stamatopolous, 164

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Fed. Rep. 524; Solander v. People, 2 Colorado, 48; State v.
Crofford, 133 Iowa, 478.
Though the penalty provisions of the crime punished
by § 2 were limited exclusively to procurers, no corre:
sponding limitation is to be found in § 37, which, being
aimed at every person, must apply to the woman transported. United States v. Portale, 235 U. S. 27; United
States v. Lewis, 235 U. S. 282.
It is not the policy of the law to suffer people to, with
impunity, jointly plan the commission of crime. Drew v.
Thaw, 235 U. S. 432. It is often but a step from plan to
performance, and if people could, without risk, jointly
plan, such plans would be more frequent, and when developed, might appear so inviting as to themselves induce
performance. Where, as here, the large purpose of the
law was to reach those systematically conducting the
traffic-and system always demands plan--there could
have been no thought of making this particular crime an
exception to the general prohibition of the conspiracy
statute.
This view is strengthened by the thought that because
practically the same language is found in §§ 2 and 3 of
the Immigration Act as amended March 26, 1910, 36 Stat.
263, the application of the -principle here contended for
would materially aid, through the enforcement of that act
also, in the accomplishment of the results sought by the
Paris Conference treaty of July 25, 1902, 35 Stat. 1979.
No appearance or brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JusncE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an indictment for a conspiracy between the
present defendant and one Laudenschleger that Laudenschleger should cause the defendant to be transported
from Illinois to Wisconsin for the purpose of prostitution,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

contrary to the act of June 25, 1910, c. 395; 36 Stat. 825.
As the defendant is the woman, the District Court sustained a demurrer on the ground that although the offence
could not be committed without her she, was no party
to it but only the victim. The single question is whether
that ruling is right. We do not have to consider what
would be necessary to constitute the substantive crime
under the act of 1910, or what evidence would be required
to convict a woman under an indictment like this; but
only to decide whether it is impossible for the transported
woman to be guilty of a crime in conspiring as alleged.
The words of the penal code of March 4, 1909, c. 321,
§ 37, 35 Stat. 1088, are "conspire to commit an offence
against the United States" and the argument is that they
mean an offence that all the conspirators should commit;
and that the woman could not commit the offence alleged
to be the object of the conspiracy. For although the
statute of 1910 embraces matters to which she could be a
party, if the words are taken literally, for instance, aiding
in procuring any form of transportation for the pur-rose;
the conspiracy alleged, as we have said, is a conspiracy
that Laudenschleger should procure transportation and
should cause the woman to be transported. Of course the
words of the penal code could be narrowed as we have
suggested, but in that case they would not be as broad
as the mischief and we think it plain that they mean to
adopt the common law as to conspiracy and that' commit'
means no more than bring about. For as was observed in
Drew v. Thaw, 235 U. S.432, a conspiracy to accomplish
what an individual is free to do may be a crime, Reg v.
Mears, 4 Cox. C. C. 423; 2 Den. C. C 79; Reg v. Howell, 4
F. & F. 160, and even more plainly a person may conspire
for the commission of a crime by a third person. We will
assume that there may be a degree of co6peration that
would not amount to a crime, as where it was held that
a purchase of spirituous liquor from an unlicensed vendor

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
236 U. S.

.145

Opinion 6 the Court.

was not a crime in the purchaser although it was in the
seller. Commonwealth v. Willard, 22 Pick. 476. But a
conspiracy with an officer or employ6 of the government
or any other for an offence that only he could corr.nit has
been held for many years to fall within the conspiracy
section, now § 37 of the penal code. United States v.
Martin, 4 Cliff. 156, 164; United States v.. Bayer, 4 Dillon,
407, 410; United States v. Stevens, 44 Fed. Rep. 132, 140;
State v. Huegin, 110 Wisconsin, 189, 246. So a woman
may conspire to procure an abortion upon herself when
under the law she could not commit the substantive crime
and therefore, it has been held, could not be an accomplice.
The Queen v. Whiicehurch, 24 Q. B. D. 420, 422; Solander
v. The People, 2 Colorado, 48, 63; State v. Crofford, 133
Iowa, 478, 480.
So we think that it would be going too far to say that
the defendant could not be guilty in this case. Suppose,
for instance, that a professional prostitute, as well able
to look out for herself as was the man, should suggest and
carry out a journey within the 4ct of 1910 in the hope of
blackmailing the man, and should buy the railroad tickets,
or should pay the fare from Jersey City to New York, she
would be within the letter of the act of 1910 and we see
no reason why .the act should not be held to apply. We see
equally little reason for not treating the preliminary
agreement as a conspiracy that the law can reach, if we
abandon the illusion that the woman always is the victim.
The words of the statute punish the transportation of a
woman for the purpose of prostitution even if she were the
first to suggest the crime.-The substantive offence might
be committed without the woman's consent, for instance,
if she were drugged or taken by force. Therefore the
decisions that it is impossible to turn the concurrence
necessary to effect certain crimes such as bigamy or duelling into a conspiracy to commit them do not apply.
Judgment reversed.
voL. ccxxxvI-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR

and

DAY,

JJ., dissentiag.

236 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR, with whom MR. JUSTICE DAY
concurs, dissenving.
I dissent from the conclusion that a woman can be
guilty of conspiring to have herself unlawfully transported
in interstate commerce for purposes of prostitution.
Congress had no power to punish immorality and certainly did not intend by this act of June 25, 1910 (36. Stat.
825) to make fornication or adultery, which was a state
misdemeanor, a Federal felony punishable by $5,000
fine and five years' imprisonment. But when it appeared
that there was a traffic in women to be used for purposes
of prostitution, debauchery and immoral purposes, Congress legislated so as to prohibit their interstate transportation in such vicious business. That there was such traffic
in women and girls; that they were "literally slaves,"
"owned and held as property and chattels," and that
their traffickers made large profits, is set out at length in
the Reports of the House and Senate Committees (61st
Congress, 2d Session) recommending the passage of the
bill. So that an argument based on the use of the words
"slave," "enslaved," "traffic in women," "business in
women," "subject of transportation" and the like,which might otherwise appear to be strained,-is amply
justified by the amazing facts which those reports show
as to the existence and extent of the business and the
profits made by the traffickers in women. The argument
based on the use of these words, and what they imply,
is further justified by the fact that the statute itself
declares (§8) that it shall be known as the "White Slave
Traffic Act." In giving itself such a title the statute
specifically indicates that, while of right, woman is not
an object of merchandise or traffic, yet for gain she has by

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
236 U. S.

LAmAt

and

DAY,

JJ., dissenting.

some been wrongfully made such for purposes of prostitution-and that trade Congress intended to bar from interstate commerce.
The Act either applies to women who are willingly
transported or it does not. If it does not apply to those
who willingly go (47 H. R. 61st Cong. 2d Session, p. 10)
then there was no offence by the man who transported
her or in the woman who voluntarily went,-and, in that
event there was, of course, no conspiracy against the laws
of the United States in her agreeing to go. The indictment here, however, assumes that the Act applies not
only to those who are induced to go, but also to those who
aid the panderer in securing their own transportation. On
that assumption, every woman transported for the purposes of the business stands on the same footing and cannot by her consent change her legal status. And if she
cannot be directly punished for being transported, she
cannot be indirectly punished by calling her assistance in
the transportation a conspiracy to violate the laws of the
United States. For if she is withir the circle of the
statute's protection she cannot be taken out of that circle
by the law of conspiracy and thus be subjected to punishment because she agreed to go.
The statute does not deal with the offence of fornication
and adultery, but treats the woman who is transported
for use in the business of prostitution as a victim-often
a willing victim but nevertheless a victim. It treats her
as enslaved and seeks to guard her against herself as well
as against her slaver; against the wiles and threats, the
compulsion and inducements, of those who treat her as
though she was merchandise and a subject of interstate
transportation. The woman, whether coerced or induced,
whether willingly or unwillingly transported for purposes
of prostitution, debauchery and immorality, is regarded
as the victim of the trafficker and she cannot therefore be
punished for being enslaved nor for consenting and agree-

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR

and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

ing to be transported by him for purposes of such business.
To hold otherwise would make the law of conspiracy a
sword with which to punish those whom the Traffic Act
was intended to protect.
The fact that prostitutes and others have used this
statute as a means by which to levy blackmail may furnish a reason why that should be made a Federal offence,
so that she and they can be punished for blackmail or
malicious prosecution. But those evils are not to be
remedied by extending the law of conspiracy so as to treat
the enslaved subject of transportation as a guilty actor in
her own transportation; and then punish her because she
agreed with her slaver to be shipped in interstate commerce
for purposes of prostitution. Such a construction would
make every willing victim indictable for conspiracy. Even
that elastic offence cannot be extended to cover such a
case.

There are no decisions dealing directly with the question as to whether a woman assisting in her own illegal
transportation can be prosecuted for conspiracy. There
are, however, a number of authorities dealing with somewhat analogous subjects. For example, in prosecutions
for abortion "the woman does not stand legally in the
situation of an accomplice, for although she no doubt
participated in the immoral offence imputed to the defendant, she could not have been indicted for the offence.
The law regards her as the victim rather than the perpetrator." Dunn v. People, 29 N. Y. 523; Commonwealth
v. Wood, 11 Gray, 85; State v. Hyer, 39 N. J. Law, 598;
State v. Murphy, 27 N. J. Law, 112, 114; Commonwealth v.
Follansbee, 155 Massachusetts, 274; State v. Owens, 22
Minnesota, 238, 244; Watson V. State, 9 Tex. App. 237;
Keller v. State, 102 Georgia, 506, 510 (seduction). Contra
apparently in England and Colorado. Queen v. Whitchurch, 24 Q. B. D. 420; Solander v. People, 2 Colorado, 48.
So, too, a person who knowingly purchases liquor from one

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
236 U. S.

LUmA and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

unauthorized to sell it is not guilty of a criminal offence and
is not an accomplice. State v. Teahan, 50 Connecticut, 92,
100; Commonwealth v. Pilsbury, 12 Gray, 127; People v.
Smith, 28 Hun, 626; affirmed on opinion below, 92 N. Y.
665; State v. Baden, 37 Minnesota, 212.
Where the purchaser of liquor sold in violation of law
Was prosecuted for inducing the seller to commit a crime,
the court said:
"Every sale implies a purchaser; there must be a purchaser as well as a seller, and this must have been known
and understood by the legislature. Now, if it were intended that. the purchaser should be subject to any
penalty, it is to be presumed, that it would have been
- clared in the statute, either, by imposing a penalty on
tht buyer in terms, or by extending the penal consequences
of the prohibited act, to all persons aiding, counselling or
encouraging the principal offender. There being no such
provision in the statute, there is a strong implication, that
none such was intended by the legislature." Commonwealth v. Willard, 22 Pick. 479. United States v. Dietrich,
126 Fed. Rep. 667, though not directly in point sheds light
on the subject. There two persons were indicted under
Rev. Stat. 5440 for conspiring to violate that law of the
United States (Rev. Stat. 1781) which makes it a criminal
offence to agree to give or to receive a bribe. The court
held that agreeing to give or receive a bribe was the substantive offence and not a conspiracy. For when an offence, as bigamy or adultery, requires for its completion
the concurrence of two persons, "the Government cannot
evade the limitations by indicting as for a conspiracy."
And in Queen v. Tyrrell, 1 Q. B. 711 (1894), where a
girl under 15 years of age was prosecuted for inciting a
man to commit adultery with her, one of the judges considered that she could not be found guilty because she
was under the age of consent, and the other said that the
statute did not apply because "there is no trace in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
LAMAR and DAY, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

statute of any intention to treat the woman or girl as
criminal."
Applying these cases, it appears that under the White
Slave Traffic Act there must be a woman who is transported and a person who compels or induces her to be
transported or who aids her in such transportation.
"There is no trace in the statute of any intention to treat
the women or girls as criminals" for being transported, nor
for agreeing that they will be transported, nor for aiding
in the transportation. And if, as said in Commonwealth v.
Willard, 22 Pick. 479, Congress had intended that they
should be subject to indictment for conspiracy "it would
have so declared by extending the penal consequences of the
prohibited act to all persons aiding, counselling or encouraging the principal offender. There being no such provision in the statute, there is a strong implication that none
such was intended by the legislature."
To this may be added the practical consideration, that
any construction making the woman liable for participation in the transportation will not only tend to prevent
her from coming forward with her evidence, but in many
instances she will be in position to claim her privilege and
can refuse-to testify on the ground that she might thereby
subject herself to prosecution for conspiracy in that she
aided in the violation of the law, even though it was intended for the protection of her unfortunate class.
The woman, whether treated as the willing or an unwilling victim of such transportation for such business purpose, cannot be found guilty of the main offence nor
punished for the incidental act of conspiring to be enslaved and transported. Indeed, if she could be so punished for conspiring with her slaver, the fundamental
idea that makes the act valid would be destroyed. She
would cease to be an object of traffic; and instead of being
the subject of illegal transportation would-not be transported by a slaver as an object of interstate commerce,

WILMINGTON TRANSP. CO. v. CAL. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

15i

Statement of the Case.

so as to be subject to regulative prohibitions under the
Commerce Clause-but would be voluntarily traveling on
her own account, and punishable by the laws of the State
for prostitution practiced after her arrival.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY concurs
in this dissent.

WILMINGTON TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 369.

Argued December 15, 16, 1914.-Decided February 1, 1915.

The mere existence of Federal power does not, while dormant, preclude
the reasonable exercise of state authority as to those matters of interstate or foreign commerce which are distinctly local in character in
order to meet the needs of suitable local protection until Congress
does act.
Congress may regulate interstate transportation by ferry as well as
other interstate commercial intercourse; but, until it does, a State
may prevent unreasonable charges for ferriage from a point of departure within its borders.
A State may, in the absence of any action bv Congress, prevent through
proper orders of its Railroad Commission exorbitant charges for
transportation having both origin and termination within the State
and none of it being within any other State although a part of it
may be over the high seas.
166 California, 741, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the power of the State Railroad Commission of California to regulate rates of trans-

