OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

236 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. JONES, ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 450. Argued December 9, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915.
The tax imposed by the War Revenue Act of 1898 was purely a succession tax. It was not laid upon the entire estate, but was a charge
upon the transmission of personal property from a deceased owner
to legatees or distributees.
Personal property does not pass directly from a decedent to legatees
or distributees, but goes primarily to the executor or administrator
who passes to them the residue after settlement of the estate.
Until in due course of the administration of an estate it has been ascertained that a surplus remains, it cannot be said that the legatees
or distributees are certainly entitled to receive or enjoy any part of
the property; and so held as to an estate of one dying prior to July 1,
1902, that until such fact was ascertained the interests of legatees
and distributees were not absolute, but were contingent within the
meaning of § 29 of the War Revenue Act of 1898 and of § 3 of the
Refunding Act of June 27, 1902. Vanderbilt v. Eidman, 196 U. S.
480; Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205, distinguished.
49 Ct. Cls. 408, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the War
Revenue Act of 1898 and the subsequent Acts relating
thereto, and their application to inheritances, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States:
The questions involved in this case have been explicitly
passed upon by this court and determined adversely to
the position taken by appellee. The position of the
Government is covered by Mr. Solicitor General Bowers
in his brief in Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205. That
decision is stare decisis of all questions raised here.
The thing to be taxed in this case was not a contingent

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
236 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

beneficial interest, but, on the contrary, was subject to
the tax, having vested prior to July 1, 1902.
As held in Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41., 56, the thing
taxed is the power to transmit or the transmission from
the dead to the living. See Hertz v. Woodman, supra.
A legacy to pay over the net income from a fund in
periodical payments during the life of the legatee is not
a contingent beneficial interest, but a vested life estate,
the income from which as determined by the mortuary
tables and an interest rate of 4 per cent was subject to
the tax. United States v. Fidelity Trust Co., 222 U. S. 158.
The tax accrued when the testator died on June 28,
1902, although her personal estate was not distributed
to her two children until May, 1903, and the tax was not
collected until October 24, 1905.
Appellee contends, and the court below sustained his
contention, that under a Pennsylvania statute providing
that no administrator shall be compelled to make distribution of the goods of an intestate until one year be fully
expired from the granting of the administration of the
estate, act of Feb. 24, 1834, § 38, P. L., 80 Purd. 447, the
administrator had exclusive possession of the personal
property up to and subsequent to July 1, 1902, and that
therefore no tax had accrued on the several estates, they
being contingent beneficial interests at the time of the
repeal; but this cannot be sustained. Beer v. Moffat, 209
Fed. Rep. 779; Baldwin v. Eidman, 202 Fed. Rep. 968;
United States v. Fidelity Trust Co., 222 U. S. 158. Hertz
v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205; cannot be distinguished.
Farrell v. United States, 167 Fed. Rep. 639, does not
apply.
As the thing taxed was the right of succession, which
occurred upon the death of the intestate prior to July 1,
1902, the distributive shares .of the two legatees became
vested within the meaning of the act of June 13, 1898,
at the moment of her death and subject to taxation regard-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court..

236 U. 8.

less of the fact that the administrator, under the state
law, had the right to retain possession of the legacies for
a period extending beyond July 1, 1902.
Mr. Barry Mohun for appellee:
The court has jurisdiction.
The moneys paid by claimant as taxes upon the distributive shares of the Dalzell estate are refundable under
the terms of and directions contained in the refunding
act of June 27, 1902.
Under the terms of the taxing statute, amendments
thereof, the repealing act and the refunding act, as construed by this and other Federal courts, the criterion of
liability for taxation of legacies and distributive shares of
estates of persons who died during the period the taxing
statute and amendments were in force, was whether such
beneficial interests were, during that time, absolutely
vested in possession or enjoyment of the legatees or next of
kin. In the absence of such possession or enjoyment all
taxes collected upon such beneficial interests are directed
to be returned by the refunding act.
The distributive shares of this estate were not absolutely
vested in possession of the distributees prior to July 1,
1902; hence the taxes collected thereon are refundable.
An examination of the history of the times discloses a
fixed purpose on the part of Congress to prohibit the
collection of taxes upon all interests unless the right of
absolute possession or enjoyment existed prior to July 1,
1902, and if collected to direct their refundment.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion 'of

the court.
This is a suit to recover a succession tax paid under
§§ 29 and 30 of the act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, 30 Stat.
448, 464. The facts are these: Adelaide P. DalzeU, a

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

resident of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, died intestate
June 28, 1902, leaving personal property of considerable
value, and being survived by two daughters as her only
next of kin. July 14, 1902, an administrator was appointed and the property was committed to his charge for
the purposes of administration. Under the local law the
debts of the intestate and the expenses of administration
were to be paid out of the property and what remained
was to be distributed in equal shares between the two
daughters, but distribution could not be made for several
months after the appointment of the administrator. In
regular course the debts and expenses were ascertained
and paid, and this left for distribution property of the
value of $219,341.74. The Collector of Internal Revenue
then collected from the administrator, without protest
from him, a succession tax of $3,290.12 upon the distributive shares of the daughters, and the tax was covered into
the Treasury. About seven months after paying the
tax the administrator sought, in the mode prescribed, to
have it refunded under § 3 of the Act of June 27, 1902,
c. 1160, 32 Stat. 406, but the Secretary of the Treasury
denied the application. The administrator then brought
this suit and the Court of Claims gave judgment in his
favor. 49 Ct. Cls. 408. A reversal of the judgment is
sought by the United States.
By § 29 of the act of 1898 an executor, administrator or
trustee having in charge any legacy or distributive share
arising from personal property, and passing from a
decedent to another by will. or intestate laws, was subjected to a tax graduated according to the value of the
beneficiary's interest in the property and the degree of
his kinship to the decedent. Interests which were contingent and uncertain were not affected, but only those
whereof the beneficiary had become invested with a
present right of possession or enjoyment. Vanderbilt v.
Eidman, 196 U. S. 480, 491-495, 498. Section 29 was

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.

Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

repealed April 12, 1902, but the repeal was not to take
effect until July 1, 1902, and was not to prevent the
collection of any tax imposed prior to that date. 32 Stat.
96, c. 500, §§ 7, 8, 11.
As before indicated, the claimant principally relies
upon § 3 of the act of June 27, 1902i supra. It reads as
follows:
"That in all cases where an executor, administrator, or
trustee shall have paid, or shall hereafter pay, any tax
upon any legacy or distributive share of personal property
under the provisions of the act approved June thirteenth,
eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, entitled 'An act to
provide ways and means to meet war expenditures, and
for other purposes,' and amendments thereof, the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby, authorized and
directed to refund, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, upon proper application being
made to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, under
such rules and regulations as may be prescribed, so much
of said tax as may have been collected on contingent
beneficial interests which shall not have become vested
prior to July first, nineteen hundred and two. And no
tax shall hereafter be assessed or imposed under said act
approved June thirteenth, eighteen hundred and ninetyeight, upon or in respect of any contingent beneficial
interest which shall not become absolutely vested in
possession or enjoyment prior to said July first, nineteen
hundred and two."
In construing this section this court said in Vanderbilt
v. Eidman, supra (p. 500):
"It is, we think, incontrovertible that the taxes which
the third section of the act of 1902 directs to be refunded
and those which it forbids the collection of in the future are
one and the same in their nature. Any other view would
destroy the unity of the section and cause its provisions
to produce inexplicable conflict. From this it results that

UNITED STATES v. JONES.

236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the taxes which are directed in the first sentence to be
refunded, because they had been wrongfldly collected on
contingent beneficial interests which had not become
vested prior to July 1, 1902, were taxes levied on such
beneficial interests as had not become vested in possession
or enjoyment prior to the date named, within the intendment of the subsequent sentence. In other words, the
statute provided for the refunding of taxes collected under
the circumstances stated and at the same time forbade like
collections in the future."
This view was repeated in United States v. Fidelity
Trust Co., 222 U. S. 158.
The decisive question, therefore, in the present case is
whether the beneficial interests of the daughters, upon
which the tax was collected, had become absolutely
vested in possession or enjoyment prior to July 1, 1902, or
were at that time contingent. If they had become so
vested, the effort to recover the tax must fail; but, if they
were contingent, the tax must be refunded. Recognizing
that this is so, counsel for the United States insists that
the distributive interests to which the daughters succeeded
became vested in the full sense of the statute the moment
the intestate died, which was three days before July 1,'
1902. The court below rejected this contention and held
that those interests did not become so vested until the
daughters were entitled to receive their respective shares
in the property remaining after the debts and expenses
were paid, which was not until several months after
July 1, 1902.
The question should, of course, be determined with due
regard to the situation to which the refunding statute was
addressed.
The tax imposed by the act of 1898 was purely a succession tax, a charge upon the transmission of personal property from a deceased owner to legatees or distributees.
It was not laid upon the entire personal estate or upon all

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

that came into the hands of the executor or administrator,
but upon "any legacies or distributive shares" in his
charge "arising from" such estate and passing to others
by will or intestate laws.
It hardly needs statement that personal property does
not pass directly from a decedent to legatees or distributees, but goes primarily to the executor or administrator,
who is to apply it, so far as may be necessary, in paying
debts of the deceased and expenses of administration, and
is then to pass the residue, if any, to legatees or distributees. If the estate proves insolvent nothing is to pass to
them. So, in a practical sense their interests are contingent and uncertain until, in due course of administration,
it is ascertained that a surplus remains after the debts and
expenses are paid. Until that is done, it properly cannot
be said that legatees or distributees are certainly entitled
to receive or enjoy any part of the property. The only
right which can be said to vest in them at the time of the
death is a right to demand and receive at some time in the
future whatever may remain after paying the debts and
expenses. But that this right was not intended to be
taxed before there was an ascertained surplus or residue
to which it could attach is inferable from the taxing act
as a whole and especially from the provision whereby the
rate of tax was made to depend upon the value of the
legacy or distributive share.
True, by that act, the executor or administrator was
required, before surrendering a legacy or distributive share
to whoever was entitled to it, to pay the tax assessed
thereon and to deduct the amount from the particular
legacy or distributive share, but this did not mean that
the tax was to be assessed or paid in the absence of a right
to immediate possession or enjoyment. On the contrary,
as was held in Vanderbilt v. Eidman, supra, p. 499, it
imported the existence of "a practically contemporaneous
right to receive the legacy or distributive share." In that

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

case it was said, after separately considering the several
parts of the act (p. 495): "In view of the express provisions
of the statute as to possession or enjoyment and beneficial
interest and clear value, and of the absepce of any express
language exhibiting an intention to tax a mere technically
vested interest in a case where the right to possession or
enjoyment was subordinated to an uncertain contingency,
it would, we think, be doing violence to the statute to
construe it as taxing such an interest before the period
when possession or enjoyment had attached."
The actual enforcement of the taxing act by the administrative officers was not uniform as respects contingent
interests. At first the tax was regarded as not reaching
them until they became absolute, but afterwards it came
to be treated as imposing the tax at the time of the death.
The provisions of the repealing act of April 12, 1902,
were such that the tax was to be discontinued on July 1
of that year, but without affecting its collection where
the right to it became fixed before that time.
Bearing in mind that this was the situation in which
§ 3 of the act of June 27, 1902, before quoted, was enacted,
we think its meaning and purpose are plain. Briefly
stated, it deals with legacies and distributive shares upon
the same plane, treats both as "contingent" interests
until they "become absolutely vested in possession or
enjoyment," directs that the tax collected upon Contingent
interests not so vested prior to July 1, 1902, shall be refunded, and forbids any further enforcement of the tax as
respects interests remaining contingent up to that date.
In other words, it recognizes that the tax was being
improperly collected upon legacies and distributive shares
which were not absolutely vested in possession or enjoyment; and, for the purpose of avoiding the injustice that
otherwise might result from this, it requires that the tax
be refunded in all instances where the interests upon which
it was collected had not become absolutely vested in the
VOL. ccxxxv-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

sense indicated before July 1, 1902, that being the time
when the tax was discontinued,
Applying this statute to the facts before stated, we see
no escape from the conclusion that the tax in question
must be refunded. It was collected upon distributive
shares which neither were nor could have been absolutely
vested in possession or enjoyment prior to July 1, 1902.
The intestate's death had occurred only three days before,
no administrator had been appointed, the debts and expenses had not been ascertained, what, if anything, would
remain after their payment was uncertain, and the time
had not come when the daughters were entitled to a distribution.
The case of Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U. S. 205, is cited as
making for a different conclusion, but it is without real
bearing here. The refunding statute was not there in
question and was not mentioned in the opinion. The case
came to this court upon a certificate from the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, the question
certified being (p. 210): "Does the fact that the testator
dies within one year immediately prior to the taking effect
of the repealing act of April 12, 1902, relieve from taxation
legacies otherwise taxable under §§ 29 and 30 of the act of
June 13, 1898, as amended by the act of March 2, 1901?"
Thus it was expressly stated that the legacies were otherwise taxable and the question propounded was merely
whether they were relieved from taxation by the fact that
the testator died within one year of July 1, 1902, when the
repealing act took effect. The inquiry was prompted by
the provision in the amendatory act of March 2, 1901,
c. 806, 31 Stat. 938, 948, that the tax should be due and
payable one year after the death. The answer was in the
negative, it being held that the time when the tax was
made due and payable was not determinative of when it
was imposed. The opinion contains some language,
which, separately considered, gives color to the present

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

contention of the Government, but this must be read in
the light of the question presented for decision and be
taken as restrained accordingly. Besides, the opinion
approvingly refers (p. 219) to Vanderbilt v. Eidman, supra,
as having "conclusively decided" that the tax "does not
attach to legacies or distributive shares until the right of
succession becomes an absolute right of immediate possession or enjoyment." Here, as we have said, there was no
right of immediate possession or enjoyment at the time
designated in the refunding statute.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

SIMON v. SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued November 2, 3, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915.

United States courts by virtue of their general equity powers have
jurisdiction to enjoin the enforcement of a judgment obtained by
fraud or without service.
In the absence of service of process, a person named as defendant can
no more be regarded as a party than any other member of the community.
A judgment against a person on whom no process has been served is
not erroneous and voidable, but, upon principles of natural justice,
and also under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
is absolutely void.
Jurisdiction of the United States courts cannot be lessened or increased
by state statutes regulating venue or establishing rules of procedure.
While § 720, Rev. Stat., prohibits United States courts from staying
proceedings in a state court, it does not prevent them from depriving
a party of the fruits of a fraudulent judgment, nor from enjoining a
party from using that which he calls a judgment but which is, in

