DUFFY v. CHARAK.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

contempt, fined as Burdick was, with the same leave to
purge himself of the contempt, the court deciding that the
pardon was valid and sufficient for immunity. Upon
Curtin again refusing to answer, the judgment was made
absolute and he was committed to the custody of the
United States Marshal.
It will be observed, therefore, the case is almost identical
in its facts with the Burdick Case and exactly the same in
principle. On the authority of that case, therefore, the
judgment is reversed and the case remanded with instruction to dismiss the proceedings in contempt and discharge Curtin from custody.
MR. JUSTICE

MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

DUFFY v. CHARAK, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY
OF JULES & FREDERIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 120.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided January 25, 1915.

A taking possession by the mortgagee of the personal property under
the power contained in the mortgage is a delivery that satisfies the
requirements of the Massachusetts statute in regard to the delivery
of goods sold or mortgaged unless recorded.
Goods under attachment may be sold or mortgaged upon notice to the
officer, as effectively as though a true delivery took place.
The holder of a recorded mortgage on personal property in Massachusetts, made within four months of the petition, took possession under
the power contained in his mortgage after the sheriff had levied
under an attachment, and the next day the petition was filed. Held
that the mortgagee was entitled to his security to the extent that

VOL. ccxxxvi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the mortgage represented cash advanced at the time it was
given.
No order having been made in the bankruptcy court as to whether the
lien of the attachment should be preserved for the benefit of the estate, the case is sent back to that court without prejudice to further
action on that point.
200 Fed. Rep. 747, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a chattel
mortgage and the lien thereof on goods of the bankrupt,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James H. Duffy pro se.
Mr. William Charakpro se.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding by a trustee in bankruptcy to obtain the surrender of the proceeds of goods in possession of
the appellant and sold by him under an agreement with
the trustee, without prejudice to the rights of the parties
in the property. The petition in bankruptcy was filed on
May 26, 1909. The appellant claims under a mortgage
to him for $5675, made on March 2, 1909, but admits
that $4175 of this sum was a preexisting debt and claims
only $1500, lent on the day when the mortgage was given.
The mortgage was not recorded, and on May 24, 1909,
the goods were attached by a third person, the shop
where they were was closed and no more business was done.
Afterwards on the same day the mortgagee put in a
keeper subject to the possession of the sheriff's officer.
On May 25 he notified the deputy sheriff of his claim and
also gave notice to the bankrupt that the property was in
his possession and that he intended to foreclose. The
latter notice was recorded on May 26, after the filing of
the petition in bankruptcy on that day. Under the
Massachusetts laws the unrecorded mortgage was invalid

DUFFY v. CHARAK.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

against others than the parties unless the property was
delivered to and retained by the mortgagee, Rev. Laws,
c. 198, ยง 1. The District Court and the Circuit Court of
Appeals held the mortgage void on the ground that the
deputy sheriff's possession was exclusive and that therefore what was done by the mortgagee on May 24 and 25
had no effect. 193 Fed. Rep. 533. 200 Fed. Rep. 747;
119 C. C. A. 191. The main question before us is whether
this ruling is right.
We may assume that the trustee in bankruptcy is not a
party within the meaning of the Massachusetts act.
For although there have been decisions by the courts of
the United States that the assignee under former acts is
the bankrupt, that is to say that he is a universal successor
who like the executor represents the person of him to
whom he succeeds, the Supreme Court of the State has
established the construction of the Massachusetts statute.
Humphrey v. Tatman, 198 U. S. 91, 93. Haskell v. Merrill,
179 Massachusetts, 120, 124. Clark v. Williams, 190
Massachusetts, 219, 223. We assume on the other hand
that if possession was delivered and retained, within the
meaning of the act, at any time before the bankruptcy,
the title of the mortgagee will be good. Blanchard v.
Cooke, 144 Massachusetts, 207, 227. Keepers v. Fleitmann,
213 Massachusetts, 210, 211. Humphrey v. Tatman, supra,
Moreover a taking possession under the power in the
mortgage is a delivery that satisfies the statute. Keepers
v. Fleitmann, supra. 'So the issue is narrowed to the precise
point of the ruling below.
. We agree that the possession of the deputy sheriff was
exclusive and that there cannot be two possessions properly so called at the same time. But that which would be
deemed a delivery sufficient to make a sale good as against
attaching creditors, also satisfies the statute. Clark v.
Williams, 190 Massachusetts, 219, 222. Wright v. Tetlow,
99 Massachusetts, 397, 400. And it is familiar that what

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

is called a change of possession may be accomplished when
the goods are in the hands of a third person claiming a
lien. Hallgarten v. Oldham, 135 Massachusetts, 1, 9, 10.
Union Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198 U. S. 530, 536. Accordingly goods under attachment may be sold or mortgaged
upon notice to the officer, as effectively as if a true delivery
took place. Grant v. Lyman, 4 Met. 470, 477. Mann v.
Huston, 1 Gray, 250, 253. Clark v. Williams, supra. The
acts of the appellant had the same effect as if the mortgagor had been present and assenting, Keepers v. Fleitmann, 213 Massachusetts, 210, and we see in the attachment no sufficient ground for denying him his security.
The mortgage embraced after acquired property with
power of sale and substitution in the mortgagor, but we assume that it was good under Massachusetts law. Blanchard v. Cooke, 144 Massachusetts, 207. Thompson v. Fairbanks, 196 U. S. 516.
Whether or not the lien of the attachment should be
preserved for the benefit of the estate, and whether it
still is open to the Bankruptcy Court to make an order to
that effect if on due notice it should deem just, is not
before us. No such order has been made. The decree will
be reversed without prejudice to further action upon
that point.
Decree reversed.
-

