WILMINGTON TRANSP. CO. v. CAL. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

15i

Statement of the Case.

so as to be subject to regulative prohibitions under the
Commerce Clause-but would be voluntarily traveling on
her own account, and punishable by the laws of the State
for prostitution practiced after her arrival.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE DAY concurs
in this dissent.

WILMINGTON TRANSPORTATION COMPANY v.
RAILROAD COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA.
No. 369.

Argued December 15, 16, 1914.-Decided February 1, 1915.

The mere existence of Federal power does not, while dormant, preclude
the reasonable exercise of state authority as to those matters of interstate or foreign commerce which are distinctly local in character in
order to meet the needs of suitable local protection until Congress
does act.
Congress may regulate interstate transportation by ferry as well as
other interstate commercial intercourse; but, until it does, a State
may prevent unreasonable charges for ferriage from a point of departure within its borders.
A State may, in the absence of any action bv Congress, prevent through
proper orders of its Railroad Commission exorbitant charges for
transportation having both origin and termination within the State
and none of it being within any other State although a part of it
may be over the high seas.
166 California, 741, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the power of the State Railroad Commission of California to regulate rates of trans-

OCTORER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

portation between intrastate points where part of the
transportation is on the high seas, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward E. Bacon, with whom Mr. James A. Gibson
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Max Thelen, with whom Mr. Douglas Brookman
and Mr. Allan P. Matthew were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The Wilmington Transportation Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of California,
is engaged as a common carrier of passengers and goods
by sea, between San Pedro, on the mainland, and Avalon,
on Santa Catalina Island, both places being within the
County of Los Angeles in that State. Merchants at
Avalon, insisting that the rates charged for this transportation were unreasonable, presented their complaint
to the Railroad Commission of the State of California
and asked that reasonable rates be fixed under the Public
Utilities Act of 1911. Stats. (Cal.) 1911, Ex. Sess., p. 18.
The Transportation Company challenged the authority
of the Commission upon the ground that the business was
subject exclusively to the regulating power of Congress.
The Commission overruled the contention and its authority to prescribe reasonable rates between these ports of
the State was sustained on writ of review by the state
court. 166 California, 741. The case has been brought
here on error.
The vessels of the plaintiff in error, in their direct
passage between the ports named, must traverse the high
seas for upwards of twenty miles. Adopting the statement of the Commission, the Supreme Court of the State
puts the case thus: 'They do not touch at any other port,

WILMINGTON TRANSP. CO. v. CAL. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

153

Opinion of the Court.

either of the United States or of any foreign country.
They do not transfer their passengers or freight to any
other vessel in their course. They do not on the voyage
take on or put off any article of commerce. While a
portion of the voyage is.
on the high seas, the navigation
thereof is merely incidental to the real purpose of the
voyage, which is to ply between two ports, both of which
are located in the same county in this State.'
Relying upon Lord v. Steamship Co., 102 U. S.541, the
plaintiff in error contends that transportation over the
high seas is 'commerce with foreign nations' in the constitutional sense. (See Lehigh Valley R. R. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S.192, 203; The Aboy Dodge, 223 U. S.166,
176.) But if it be assumed for the present purpose that
the power of Congress extends to the subject of this controversy, the fact remains that the power has not been
exercised. The provisions of the Federal statutes relating
to vessels do not go so far, and the Interstate Commerce
Commission has not been authorized to prescribe rates
for water transportation unconnected with transportation
by railroad. 36 Stat. 539, 545. In this aspect, the question is whether the mere existence of the Federal power,
that is, while it is dormant, precludes the exercise of
state authority to prevent exorbitant charges with respect
to this traffic which has its origin and destination within
the limits of the State.
It is urged that the fixing of rates is a regulation of the
commerce involved, and hence of necessity is repugnant
to the Federal authority, although the latter be unexercised. This proposition, however, as has frequently
been pointed out, is too broadly asserted if no regard be
had to the differences in the subjects which, by virtue
of the Commerce Clause, are within the control of Congress. Thus, vessels engaged in foreign commerce have
been compelled to submit to state requirements as to
pilotage and quarantine since the foundation of the Gov-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

ernment, although it could not be denied that these requirements were regulations which Congress could at any
time displace. Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299,
317, 319; Ex parte McNiel, 13 Wall. 236, 240; Wilson v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572; Anderson v. Pacific Coast S. S. Co.,
225 U. S. 187, 195; Morgan S. S. Co. v. Louisiana, 118
U. S. 455, 465; Compagnie Francaise v. Board of Health,
186 U. S. 380, 387. In these cases, it was. apparent that
the subject was of a local nature admitting of diversity
of treatment according to local necessities, and it could not
be supposed that it was the intention to deny to the States
the exercise of their protective power, in the absence of
Federal action. It is not necessarily determinative that
the vessels in the course of the transportation in question
pass beyond the boundary of the State. See The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398, 405. In the case of ferries over boundary
waters, it has always been recognized that ferriage from
the shore of a State is peculiarly a matter of local concern
and, while undoubtedly Congress may regulate interstate
transportation by ferry as well as other interstate commercial intercourse, still, because of the nature of the
transportation and the local exigency, a State in the
absence of Federal regulation may prevent unreasonable
charges for carriage by fe ry from a point of departure
within its borders. Port Richmond Ferryv. Hudson County,
234 U. S. 317, 332; Sault Ste. Marie v. InternationalTransit Co., 234 U. S. 333, 342. The rule which the plaintiff
in error invokes is not an arbitrary rule, with arbitrary
exceptions, but is one that has its basis in a rational construction of the Commerce Clause. As repeatedly stated,
it denies authority to the States in all cases where the
subject is of such a nature as to demand that, if regulated
at all, its regulation should be through a general or national
system, and that it should be free from restraint or direct
burdens save as it is constitutionally governed by Congress; and on the other hand, as to those matters which

WILMINGTON TRANSP. CO. v. CAL. R. R. COMM.
236 U. S.

155

Opinion of the Court.

are distinctively local in character although embraced
within the Federal authority, the rule recognizes the propriety of the reo sonable exercise of the power of the States,
in order to meet the needs of suitable local protection,
until Congress intervenes. Cooley v. Board of Wardens,
supra; Ex parte McNiel, supra; Welton v. Missouri, 91
U. S. 275, 280; County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102U. S.
691, 697; Gloucester Ferry v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196,
204; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry., 125 U. S. 465, 481;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352;'399-403; Port Richmond Ferry v. Hudson County, supra.
It was by the application of these principles that it was
decided that a State could not prescfibe rates for interstate railroad transportation, even with respect to that
portion of the route which was within its own territory.
As was said by Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the opinion
of the court upon this question (Wabash &c. Ry. v. Illinois,
118 U. S. 557, 577), after recognizing the authority of the
State to prescribe intrastate rates: "But when it is attempted to apply to transportation through an entire
series of States a principle of this kind, and each one of
the States shall attempt to establish its own rates of transportation, its own methods to prevent discrimination in
rates, or to permit it, the deleterious influence upon the
freedom of commerce among the States and upon the
transit of goods through those States cannot be over.estimated. That this species of regulation is one which
must be, if established at all, of a general and national character, and cannot be safely and wisely remitted to local
rules and local regulations, we think is clear from what
has already been said." And the same conclusion has
been reached- with respect to the fixing of rates for railroad transportation which, while beginning and ending
in the same State, passes through the territory of an-'
other State. The regulation of such rates cannot be 'split
up' according to the jurisdiction of the respective States

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
.Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

over the track; there must be one rate fixed by one authority. Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Ry., 187 U. S.
617, 620.
We are not here dealing with the case of property which
is in course of continuous transportation to another State
or to a foreign country. The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557;
Ohio Railroad Commission v. Worthington, Receiver, 225
U. S. 101; Texas & N. 0. R. R. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227
U. S. 111, 124; Railroad Commission v. Texas & Pacific
Ry., 22 J U. S. 336. It must be assunied upon this record
that the State claims the right to exercise its authority
'only as to transportation between the mainland
and the
island, and solely with respect to such shipments over
this route as are local to the State, both as to the beginning
and the end of the transportation. There is no passage
through the territory of another State; the transportation;,
in its entire course, is subject to a single authority-either
that of.Congress or that of the State-and the latter would
yield to the exercise of the former. The sovereignty of no
other jurisdiction is encountered. It is plainly of importance to the people of the State that this local traffic
should be carried upon reasonable terms; and if, in the
case of a ferry, a State may protect its people from extortion although the ferriage is to the shore of another State,
there is in our judgment no ground for saying that where
the transportation is between two places in the same
State it is less a subject for local action, in the absence of
Federal interposition, because the voyage is over a stretch
of open sea. Congress has not attempted to intervene,
and we find no basis for the conclusion that the subject
is one which must be deemed to be wholly free from regulation unless Congress deals with it. On the contrary, it is
precisely of that local character which permits it to be left
appropriately to the care of the State.
A different conclusion was reached at Circuit in Pacific
Coast Steamship Co. v. Railroad Commissioners, 18 Fed.

ILL. CENT. R. R. v. LOUISIANA R. R. COMM.
936 U. S.

157

Counsel for Appellant.

Rep. 10, but for the reasons stated, we are unable to agree
with it. The judgment of the Supreme Court of California
is affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FUENTES ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE RAILROAD COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 423.

Argued January 8, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

The switching of empty cars to and from a connection with an interstate railroad to a side track within the terminal of another railroad,
for the purpose of being there loaded with goods intended for interstate commerce, constitutes a part of interstate commerce, the regulation of which Congress has undertaken, and any order of a state commission regulating such switching transcends the limits of its power.
When freight actually starts in the course of transportation from one
State to another it becomes a part of interstate commerce; and it is
the essential nature of the movement and not the form of the bill
of lading that determines the character of the commerce involved.
Order 295 of the Louisiana Railroad Commission, relative to switching
of cars between connecting carriers and requiring carriers to conform
to rates established by the Commission as to cars shipped in or out
of the State, held unconstitutional as a burden upon, and an attempt
to regulate, interstate commerce.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution of orders
made by the State Railroad Commission of Louisiana
relative to switching of cars as applied to cars used in
interstate commerce, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Blewett Lee, with whom Mr. Robert V. Fletcher,

Mr. Hunter C. Leake and Mr. Gustave Lemle were on the
brief, for appellant;

