WILLIAMS v. U. S'. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

liquors into those portions of the State that lie within the
Indian country. Presumably the defendants did not, at
the time of conspiring, specify the particular points in'the
Indian country to which the liquor should be shipped;
nevertheless, the- conspiracy could not be carried out as
made without violating the act of 1897.
The indictment is therefore sufficient, and the judgment
should be affirmed.
Judgment,affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND
GUARANTY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 80. Argued January 18, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
Statutes should be sensibly construed, with a view. to effectuating the
legislative intent.
It is the purpose of the Bankruptcy Act to convert the assets of the
bankrupt into cash for distribution among creditors and then relieve
the honest debtor from the weight of oppressive indebtedness and
permit him to start afresh free from obligations and responsibilities
consequent upon business misfortunes.
Within the intendment of the bankruptcy law provable debts include
all liabilities of the bankrupt founded on contract, express or implied, which at the time of the bankruptcy were fixed in amount or
susceptible of liquidation.
Under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, the surety of the bankrupt
either shares,. or enjoys-due opportunity to share, in the principal's

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

236 U. S.

estate, and, therefore, the discharge of the bankrupt acquits the
obligation between them incident to the relationship.
A discharge in bankruptcy acquits the express obligation of the principal to indemnify his surety against loss by reason of their joint
bond conditioned to secure his faithful performance of a building
contract broken prior to the bankruptcy although the surety did not
pay the consequent damage until thereafter.
11 Ga. App. 635, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of the Bankruptcy Act ' and effect of a discharge in bankruptcy, are
stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. Howell Green and Mr. Alex. C. King for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. Alex. W. Smith, Jr., with whom Mr. Alex. W.
Smith was on the brief, for defendant in error:
A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt from
all his provable debts, and the "provable debt" from
which the bankrupt is released means an obligation susceptible of being presented in such form as to come within
some one or more of the classes of debts designated in
§ 63-a. 1 Remington on Bankruptcy, § 628.
The question whether or not a debt is provable turns
upon its status at the time of the filing of the petition.
Id., § 629; Zavelo v. Reeves, 227 U. S. 625.
Unliquidated claims against the bankrupt may, pursuant to application to the court, be liquidated in such
manner as it shall direct, and may thereafter be proved
and allowed against his estate.
Section 63-b adds nothing to the class of debts prescribed
under 63-a. It merely permits the liquidation of an unliquidated claim provable under the latter provision.
Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190 U. S. 340; Coleman Co. v. Withoft,
195 Fed. Rep. 250; In re Roth & Appel, 181 Fed. Rep. 673;
In re Adams, 130 Fed. Rep.. 381.
Contingent claims are not provable under the act of

WILLIAMS v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

1898. 1 Remington, § 640; In re Roth, 181 Fed. Rep.
673; Coleman v. Withoft, 195 Fed. Rep. 250.
Contingent is the quality of being casual; the possibility of coming to pass; an event which may occur; a
possibility.
All anticipated future events, which are not certain to
occur are contingent events, and may be properly denominated mere possibilities, more or less remote.
A contingent claim is one which has not accrued and
which is dependent upon the happening of some future
event. 2 Words & Phrases, p. 1498.
Sureties and endorsers on commercial paper and others
similarly situated have a provable claim against their
bankrupt principal even though at that time there has
been no default on the part of the bankrupt. 1 Remington,
§§ 642-645, and cases cited.
There is a very clear distinction between this class of
cases and the case at bar, involving a surety for the
"faithful performance" of a contract or duty by the
bankrupt. 1 Remington, § 647.
Such claims are contingent: First, on a breach by
bankrupt of the contract or duty.
Second, on actual pecuniary loss suffered by the surety
as a consequence of said breach by the bankrupt.
The existence of either or both of said contingencies at
the time of the filing of the petition in bankruptcy renders
the claim of the surety non-provable, and therefore unaffected by the bankrupt's discharge. Goding v. Rosenthal, 6 A. B. R. 641 (Note); Clemmons v. Brinn, 7 A. B. R.
714; Insley v. Garside, 121 Fed. Rep. 699.
The distinction which reconciles the positions of both
sides of this case and the authorities cited by them respectively, is that which exists between a contract assuming liability, and one indemnifying against loss. The
terms of such contracts fix the law applicable to them
respectively.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

The distinction is clearly pointed out in the following
cases: Contracts assuming liability: Fenton v. Fidelity
Co., 36 Oregon, 283; Anoka Lumber Co. v. Fidelity Co.,
3 Minnesota, 286; Tucker v. Murphy, 114 Georgia, 662;
Thomas v. Richards, 124 Georgia, 942; Mills v. Dows Adm'r,
133 U. S. 423, 432; John3on v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300, 308.
Contracts indemnifying against loss: Carter v. zXtna
Ins. Co., 76 Kansas, 275; Allen v. £,tna Ins. Co., 145 Fed.
Rep. 881; Connelly v. Bolster, 187 Massachusetts, 266;
Harvey v. Daniel, 36 Georgia, 562; Wicker v. Hoppock,
6 Wall. 94; Insley v. Garside, 121 Fed. Rep. 699; National
Bank v. Bigler, 83 N. Y. 62.
The contract recovered on in the case at bar is a contract of indemnity and falls within the latter class in all
of which it is '*ell-nigh universally held that to recover
for. a breach, loss or damage must be sustained by actual
payment of money, or its equivalent under the law. 16
Am. & Eng. Encyc., 2d ed., 178 (a) and notes; 22 Cyc.
79-92.
Indemnity means an obligation to make good a loss;
no loss, no obligation.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
This cause presents the following question: Does a discharge in bankruptcy acquit an express obligation of the.
principal to indemnify his surety against loss by reason of
their joint bond conditioned to secure his faithful performance of a building contract broken prior to the bankruptcy when the surety paid the consequent damage thereafter?
R. P. Williams and J. B. Carr, as partners, entered into
a contract with certain school trustees-April, 1900,-to
construct a building in Florida, and, with defendant in
error company as surety, gave a bond guaranteeing its

WILLIAMS v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

faithful performance. Contemporaneously with the execution of the bond and as a condition thereto, the partners made a written application to the company. in which
they obligated themselves "to indemnify the said United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Company against all loss,
costs, damages, charges and expenses whatever, resulting
from any act, default, or neglect of ours that said United
States Fidelity & Guaranty Company may sustain or incur by reason of its having executed said bond or, any continuation thereof."
November 9, 1900, the partners abandoned the contract; the trustees took possession and completed the
structure April 13, 1901, and on May 14 following they
made adequate demands for payment of the amount expended beyond the contract price. This being refused
they brought suit and recovered a judgment against
the company July 1, 1904, which it satisfied February 20,
1905, by paying $5,475.36.
Voluntary petitions were filed by partnership and members May 28, 1901, and all were immediately adjudged
bankrupt. The schedules specified the building contract,
its breach and the bond, and their adequacy is not now
questioned. In due time the school trustees proved their
claim and it was allowed. October 5, 1901, the petitioners
received their discharges. No dividend was declared, all
the assets being required for administration expenses.
Defendant in error brought suit in the City Court of
Atlanta against the firm and its members--August,
1911,-setting up the written promise made to it when
the bond was executed and asking judgment for the
amount paid in satisfaction of the recovery thereon, together with attorneys' fees. The matter was submitted
upon an agreed statement of facts and judgment went in.
favor of the company; this was affirmed by the Court of
Appeals of Georgia (11 Ga. App. 635) and the cause is
here upon writ of error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

The state court treated the written contract of indemnity between the bankrupts and the surety company
as the expression of what would have been implied and
declared (p. 644): "The bankrupts owed the surety nothing at the time the petition in bankruptcy was filed, because the surety had paid nothing for their benefit and the
relation of debtor and creditor did not exist between them
until after actual payment by the surety. . . . The
surety had no claim against the bankrupts which it could
file in its own name. . . . The liability to the surety
by the bankrupts was altogether contingent and might
never have arisen. Indeed, we hold that at the time the
petition in bankruptcy was filed the surety had no claim
or debt against the bankrupts which could have been
proved in the bankrupt court under § 63 of the bankrupt
act."

Counsel for the company "contend that the claim at
bar was subject to two contingencies, one of which, to wit,
the sustaining or incurring of actual pecuniary loss, resultant to the principal's act, had not arisen at the time of
the filing of the petition. Therefore said claim was not an
unliquidated claim upon an express contract absolutely
owing at the time. It was a contingent claim, and as such
not provable and therefore not affected by the bankrupt
principal's discharge."
If the doctrine announced by the court below and maintained here by counsel is correct, a discharge in bankruptcy
may hav6 very small value for the luckless debtor who
has faithfully tried to secure his creditors against loss;
and, in effect, a demand against him may be kept alive
indefinitely according to the interest or caprice of his
surety.
It is the purpose of the Bankrupt Act to convert the
assets of the bankrupt into cash for distribution among
creditors and then to relieve the honbst debtor from the
weight of oppressive indebtedness and permit him to

WILLIAMS v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

start afresh free from the obligations and responsibilities
consequent upon business misfortunes. Wetmore v.
Markoe, 196 U. S. 68, 77; Zavelo v. Reeves, 227 U. S. 625,
629; Burlingham v. Crouse, 228 U. S. 459, 473. And nothing is better settled than that statutes should be sensibly
construed, with a view to effectuating the legislative intent. Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144 U. S. 47, 59; In re
Chapman, 166 U. S. 661, 667.
The statute (July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544), as
amended in 1903 (February 5, 1903, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797),
provides: Section 17. "A discharge in bankruptcy shall
release a bankrupt from all of his provable debts, except
such as . . . (2) are liabilities for obtaining property
by false pretenses or false representations." Section 63.
"Debts of the bankrupt may be proved and allowed
against his estate which are . . . (4) founded upon
an-open account, or upon a contract express or implied;
. .
Unliquidated claims against the bankrupt may, pursuant to application to the court, be liquidated in such manner as it shall direct, and may thereafter
be proved and allowed against his estate." Section 1.
(11). "Debt shall include any debt, demand, or claim
provable in bankruptcy." Section 2. Courts of bankruptcy have jurisdiction to "(6) bring in and substitute
additional persons or parties in proceedings in bankruptcy
when necessary for the complete determination of a matter in controversy; . . . (15) make such orders, issue
such process, and enter such judgments in addition to
those specifically provided for as may be necessary for the
enforcement of the provisions of this Act." Section 57-i.
"Whenever a creditor, whose claim against a bankrupt
estate is secured by the individual undertaking of any
person, fails to prove such Claim, such person may do so
in the creditor's name, and if he discharge such undertaking in whole or in part he shall be subrogated to that
extent to the rights of the creditor." General Order

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
.Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

XXI.-4. "The claims of persons contingently liable for
the bankrupt may be proved in the name of the creditor
when known by the party contingently liable. When the
name of the creditor is unknown, such claim may be
proved in the name of the party contingently liable; but
no dividend shall be paid upon such claim, except upon
satisfactory proof that it will diminish pro tanto the
original debt." Section 16. "The liability of a person
who is a co-debtor with, or guarantor or in any manner a
surety for, a bankrupt shall not be altered by the discharge of such bankrupt."
Within the intendment of the law provable debts include all liabilities of the bankrupt founded on contract,
express or implied, which at the time of the bankruptcy
were fixed in amount or susceptible of liquidation. Dunbar v. Dunbar, 190 U. S. 340, 350; Crawford v. Burke, 195
U. S. 176, 187; Grant Shoe Co. v. Laird, 212 U. S.445, 448;
Zavelo v. Reeves, 227 U. S. 625, 631. It provides complete
protection and an ample remedy in behalf of the surety
upon any such obligation. He may pay it off and be subrogated to the rights of the creditor; if the creditor fails to
present the claim for allowance against the estate he may
prove it; and in any event he has abundant power by resort to the court or otherwise to require application of its
full pro rata part of the bankrupt's estate to the principal
debt. To the extent of such distribution the obligation
of the bankrupt to the surety will be satisfied. Although,
unlike the act of 1867, the present one contains no express
provision permitting proof of contingent claims, it does
in substance afford the surety on a liability susceptible of
liquidation the same relief possible under the earlier act,
i. e. application to the principal debt of all dividends declared out of the estate (act of March 2, 1867, §§ 19, 27,
c. 176, 14 Stat. 517, 525, 529). And as the surety thus
either shares or enjoys an opportunity to share in the
principal's estate, we think the discharge of the latter

WILLIAMS v. U. S. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

acquits the obligation between them incident to the relationship. Mace v. Wells, 7 How. 272, 276 Fairbanks v.
Lambert, 137 Massachusetts, 373, 374; Hayer v. Comstock,
115 Iowa, 187, 191; Post, Admr., v. Losey, 111 Indiana, 74,
80; Smith v. Wheeler, 55 App. Div. (N. Y.) 170, 171.
It would be contrary to the basal spirit of the Bankrupt
Law to permit. a surety, by simply postponing compliance
with his own promise in respect of a liability until after
bankruptcy, to preserve a right of recovery over against
his principal notwithstanding the discharge would have
extinguished this if the surety had promptly performed
as he agreed. Such an interpretation would effectually
defeat a fundamental purpose of the enactment.
The written indemnity agreement embodied in the
bankrupt's application to the surety company for execution of the bond, so far as its terms are important here,
but expressed what otherwise would have been implied
from the relationship assumed by the parties. At the
time of the bankruptcy the obligation under this agreement was ancillary to a liability arising out of a contract
estimation of which was easy of establishment by proof.
There was no uncertainty which could prevent the surety
from obtaining all benefits to which it was justly entitled
from the bankrupt estate.
Upon the facts presented we are of opinion that the
discharge pleaded by the plaintiff in error constituted a
good defense and the court below erred in holding otherwise. The judgment is accordingly reversed and the cause
remanded for further proceedings .not inconsistent with
this opinion.
Reversed.

