GALLARDO v. NOBL9.
V.S.
.36

Syllabus.

title does not depend upon difficult evidence, technical
procedure, or the duel. Usually a few sheets of paper
copied from the registry and costing but a trifle will
establish the right, often with less trouble than it takes to
prove possession. But these are not the only considerations. The State is within its constitutional power when
it limits the sphere of self-help. It may protect an established possession against disturbance by anything except
process of law. It may attach such consequences to the
disturbance as it sees fit, short of cruel and unusual
punishment. If it ordains a restitutio in integrum or its
equivalent in money it not only is adopting a familiar
remedy, but, with the conditions attached in Louisiana,
does not go so far as it might. The law of Louisiana requires uninterrupted possession for a year for the possessory action. Civil Code, Arts. 3454, 3455. If it had made
a year the limitation for a petitory suit and had provided
that the 'title should be lost in that time it would be hard
to maintain that it had exceeded its constitutional power.
Blinn v. Nelson, 222 U. S. 1, 7. Kentucky Union Co. v.
Kentucky, 219 U. S. 140, 156. Turner v. New York, 168
U. S. 90.
Judgment affirmed.

GALLARDO Y SEARY v. NOBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR 'THE DISTRICT OF PORTO RICO.
No. 141.

Argued January 20, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

A statement of the condition of the record title made by an owner of
property in Porto Rico does not necessarily enlarge the scope of an
incumbrance mentioned in the statement from what it actually is

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellees.

236 U. S.

or estop the person making the statement; e. g., a reference to a
mortgage on crops as being one on the -land.
A mortgage on property in Porto Rico held in this case to be one on the
crops alone and not on the land.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a mortgage
affecting property in Porto Rico and the determination of
the question of *Whether it embraced the land or only the
crops, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frederic R. Coudert, with whom Mr. Howard
Thayer Kingsbury was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. N. B. K. Pettingill, with whom Mr. Roberto H.
Todd was on the brief, for appellees:
The instrument created a lien on the land; the rule that
mortgages must be upon specific real estate is confined to
its effect upon rights of third parties..
The instrument bound the title of Gallardo. The
allegations of the bill are sufficient. Upon a decree pro
confesso the question is of substance-not form.
The allegations are supported by findings of fact. In
the absence of evidence in the records there is a conclusive
presumption that the decree was warranted.
The only open question here is the sufficiency of the findings to support the decree.
The appellants are estopped to deny the lien because of
their conduct in obtaining possessory title.
The presumption is that public officials have properly
performed their duties.
The instrument imposed a tacit mortgage although
described as a deed of refaccion.
The defense of prescription is not sustained, and if
prescription is not pleaded, it is waived.
The plea was bad because it was double; also because it
states no defense; and also because the thirty-year statute
was not pleaded. Prescription is a rule of real property.

GALLARDO v. NOBLE.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The complainants are entitled to the remedy pursued;
summary proceedings are optional.
A record of a mortgage need be transferred only as
against third persons, and the appellants are not third
persons.
The Registrar's iuling is not binding, but if it were the
result would be favorable to appellees.
The refusal of the court to open the pro confesso decree
was not abuse of discretion.
The records did not prove recognitions insufficient.
There was no sufficient defense presented to the court
below, nor was the answer presented signed by defendants.
The failure to answer within the time was not excused.
Suspension of entry of decree is a matter of discretion
and this record is not in a condition to review its exercise.
Judge Hamilton's opinion held the contract was one of
refaccion and that it gave a tacit lien upon the realty.
It erroneously held that the lien bound only the interest
of Gandia and that it was barred by prescription.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered' the opinion of the

court.
This is a bill to foreclose a mortgage annexed to the
bill and alleged to create a lien upon the Cacique sugar
plantation. It was brought against the appellants, who
are the heirs of one Gallardo, a -purchaser of the estate.
A demurrer and a plea of prescription of thirty, twenty,
fifteen and five years were filed and overruled, subject to
exception, and thereafter the bill was taken as confessed
and a decree entered as prayed. The mortgage was made
on December 22, 1865, and the plaintiffs agree that
their claim depends upon its being construed to embrace
the land. The construction of the instrument therefore is
the main question to be dealt with. It is made more
difficult by the fact that still, as when the case was here

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

before, 223 U. S. 65, there is only an obviously inartificial
translation in the record, but enough can be gathered to
make the result tolerably plain.
The mortgage after reciting a debt due from the mortgagor, Don Ramon Ruiz, to the mortgagee, Mr. William
Noble, 'for the payment of the lease' on the Cacique
estate goes on to say that the mortgagor 'binds himself to
pay the above-mentioned sum to his creditor Noble, with
the proceeds of the first crops which may be ground,'
&c. It then recites a debt of Ruiz to Goenaga that must
be paid in October, 1866, 'thereby being cancelled that
deed of refaccion, and Ruiz obliged not to execute any
other agreement or deed with damage to this present
one.' "For the better security of the aforesaid, besides
the general obligation which he hereby makes of all his
property hindering the special obligation, neither the
special hindering the general, the appearing party hereto
mortgages expressly and especially not only the canes
which may be ground in the next crop by the Cacique
plantation,

.

.

.

but also those which it may grind

in the following crops, until the complete payment of the
amount herein acknowledged." The appellee gives the
original Spanish: "y sin que la obligacion general que
hace de todos sus bienes impide la especial ni por el
contrario 6sta a aquella, el compareciente don Ramon
Ruiz hipoteca expresa y sefialadamente no tan solo los
frutos que en la proxima cosecha elabore la Hacienda
Casique

.

.

como ya queda precisado, sino tambien

los que fabrique en los demAs cosechas venideras hasta
el completo pago de la cantidad que deja reconocida."
We agree with the appellant that a negative is left out
in the translation and that the meaning is: without the
general obligation of all the debtor's property hindering the
special, or conversely this hindering that. So translated
we think it is obvious that the general obligation of all
the mortgagor's property is referred to not as the object

GALLARDO v. NOBLE.
236 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

or effect of 'this' special one, but as something presupposed. It is in fact the general obligation of all a debtor's
property that is incident to the existence of a debt; an
obligation which is recognized in some degree by every
system of law and shown in ours by the invalidity of conveyances in fraud of creditors, but which in the civil law
is more emphasized and expressed. The object of the
instrument and the only object is to pledge the crops and
to provide for the severance and application of them to
the debt-what is called an anticipatory mobilization.
Williamson v. Richardson, 31 La. An. 685, 687. It could
not well have gone further seeing that by the allegations of
the bill Ruiz owned only an undivided interest in the
plantation and was in possession under a lease.
The reference to the cancelling of a deed of refaccion has
no bearing upon the nature of the present instrument,
although that point was argued. The obligation of Ruiz
not to execute any other agreement to the damage of the
present one is the well-known general pact de non alienando
intended to give an additional safeguard to the mortgagee
against later alienees of the mortgaged property. Febrero,
Part 2, Book 3, c. 2, no. 85. Curia Filipica, Part 2, § 11,
no. 11; Tercero Poseedor. Nathan v. Lee, 2 Martin
(La.), N. S. 32. The language means any agreement other
than the present-not any deed of refaccion other than
the present, and so we need not consider the nature and
effect of such deeds in creating, so to speak, a salvage lien.
We turn therefore to a so-called acknowledgment that is
relied upon as estopping the appellants from-denying the
operation of the mortgage upon the land. It seems from
the bill that Ruiz became bankrupt, that a co6wner,
Gallardo, obtained a possessory title, and that on his
applying for registry of the same in 1882 he was required
to set forth the incumbrances and mentioned among them
the mortgage to Noble. •But even on the allegations of
the bill and still more plainly on looking at the instrument,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

which is in the record and is referred to by both parties,
this is merely a statement of the condition of the record
title. It does not in any way enlarge or purport to enlarge
the scope of the original transaction. The mortgage of
course bound the land in a certain sense, because the
crops were land until they were severed. Williamson v.
Richardson, 31 La. An. 685. But that was the extent to
which it bound it, and the recital of it in the-registry means
no more. At a later date a registrar declined to recognize
the mortgage as a lien upon the property, on the ground
that it affected only the products to be manufactured in
the plantation. He may have been wrong in his law for
the ieason that we have suggested, but he was plainly
right in his construction of the document. There is no
other recognition needing mention.
As our opinion is that the mortgage bound only the
crops it follows without more that the decree must be
reversed.
Decree reversed.

UNITED STATES v. HOLTE.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 628.

Argued January 8, 1915.-Decided February 1, 1915.

A woman who is transported in violation of the White Slave Traffic
Act of 1910 may be guilty of conspiracy with the person transporting
her to commit a crime against the United States under § 37 of the
Penal Code of March 4, 1899.
THE facts, which involve the construction of the White
Slave Traffic Act of 1910 and of § 37 of the Penal Code,
are stated in the opinion.

