OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

selected audience. Laws of this description are not unfamiliar. Of course we have nothing to do with the wisdom of the defendant, the prosecution, or the act. All
that concerns us is that it cannot be said to infringe the
Constitution of the United States.
Judgment affirmed.

GEORGE N. PIERCE COMPANY, PETITIONER, v.
WELLS, FARGO & COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 14. Argued December 8, 1913. Restored to docket October 26, 1914.
Reargued January 7, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
One who deliberately without fraud or imposition accepts a contract of
shipment limiting the recovery to a valuation specified in the filed
tariff, but who is given the privilege of paying increased rates for
increased valuation and liability up to full amount as also specified
in the filed tariff, is limited in case of loss to recover the specified
amount.
Contracts for limited liability when fairly made do not contravene the
settled principles of the common law preventing the carrier from
contracting against liability for its own negligence. Hart v. Pennsylvania R. R., 112 U. S. 331.
Under the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce in regard to
filing tariffs and the Carmack Amendment of 1906 to that Act, the
.amount to which the liability of the carrier is limited and the additional rate for additional liability must be stated in the filed tariff
and must be equally applicable to all shippers under like circumstances.
The legality of a contract limiting the carrier's liability to a specified or
agreed valuation does not depend upon that valuation having a
relation to the value of the shipment, but depends upon acceptance
of the parties to the contract and upon the filed tariff and the re-

PIERCE CO. v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
236 U. S.

279

Opinion of the Court.

quirement of the shipper to take notice thereof and to be bound
thereby.
If the filed tariff specifies an amount as the carrier's liability which is
unreasonable, it is. for the Interstate Commerce Commission to
correct upon proper proceedings, but it stands until so corrected and
all shippers under like circumstances must be treated alike.
While the fifty dollar limit of value of the shipment and of express companies' liability for shipments of undeclared value at regular rates
has been modified by the Commission since the shipment in this case,
it was then the filed tariff limitation and the shipper was bound to
take notice thereof; and to permit a greater recovery than the
amount specified in the filed tariff would result in the very favoritism
towards him that it is the purpose of the anti-discrimination provisions in the Act to Regulate Commerce to avoid.
The rule that conclusiveness of filed tariff rates does not relate to attempted fraudulent acts or billings, has no application where, as in
this case, the transaction was open and above board and-he character
of the goods was known to both parties and the shipper was competent to agree to the lower valuation in consideration of the lower rate.
A contention as to liability of the carrier for value of wreckage which
was not presented on the pleadings nor involved in the disposition
of the case by the court below cannot be considered here.
189 Fed. Rep. 561, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of clauses in express receipts limiting the liability of the carrier to a fixed
amount in absence of declared valuation and payment of
a higher rate, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alfred L. Becker, with whom Mr. William B. Hoyt,
Mr. Maurice C. Spratt and Mr. John W. Yerkes were on
the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Charles W. Pierson,.with, whom Mr. William W.
Green, Mr. L. A. Doherty and Mr. Charles W. Stockton
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was begun in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of New York, to recover

OOTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

$20,000 for the loss of certain automobiles, shipped for the
petitioner, hereinafter called the Automobile Company,
by the respondent, hereinafter called the Express Company. The automobiles were shipped under circumstances
to be detailed later, and the recovery of their value was
sought for a breach of the contract to carry safely; failure
to deliver according to the contract; for negligence; and
for breach of the duty imposed upon the initial carrier by
ยง 20 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, the Carmack
Amendment (Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584).
The automobiles were shipped and receipt was issued in
the form usually used by the express companies and containing the clause "Nor in any event shall said Company
be held liable beyond the sum of Fifty Dollars, at not
exceeding which sum the said property is hereby valued
unless a' different value is hereinabove stated." The receipt is in the form of the one shown in Adams Express Co.
v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, and is identical in form with
the one involved in the case of Wells, Fargo & Co. v.
Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469.
At the trial, the tariff-book of the Express Company
was marked for identification, but does not appear to have
been embodied in the record. Counsel for the petitioner
has, since the argument, filed a memorandum in explanation of the tariffs of the Express Company, and giving extracts therefrom, from which it appears that the rate for
uncrated automobiles is double the merchandise rate, and
that a through rate could be made by combination of
rates from the point of shipment to the basing point,
thence to destination. The rates filed, according to the
memorandum, show merchandise rate from Chicago, as a
basing point, to Buffalo, whence the goods were shipped,
and shows merchandise rate, California section, page 20,
from Chicago to San Francisco, and double the merchandise rate from Chicago to Buffalo, Chicago to San Francisco, would be $26.50 per hundred pounds, or, using

PIERCE CO. v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Kansas City as a basing point, taking the rates from Kansas City to Buffalo, Kansas City to San Francisco, the
doubled rate would be the same amount per hundred
pounds; also a valuation tariff, showing an additional
charge for value in excess of $50, on rate of $8 per hundred
pounds or over, 20 cents per hundred pounds, and, as the
memorandum shows, if the value of the shipment may be
taken to be $15,487.06, the rate for that sum in excess of
$50.00 would be $31.00.
The Automobile Company was engaged in Buffalo in
the manufacture, sale and shipment of automobiles. It
had frequently made use of the services of the Express
Company, knew its course of business, had a copy of its
tariffs and a book of its express receipts and was familiar
with the same; that is, it.knew of the filed rate based upon
weight or volume and the primary statement of value
and consequent limitation upon the right to recover, as
well as of the existence of a right to declare additional
value and secure in case of loss an additional amountof
recovery. Indeed, the Automobile Company had frequently resorted to the method of making a declaration
of increased value in order to secure an increased amount
of recovery under the tariff.
In May, 1907, the Automobile Company requested the
Express Company to furnish an express car for the shipment of a carload of automobiles to San Francisco. Negotiations followed between the officers of the two companies
and an understanding was reached. An express car was
furnished and put as requested by the Automobile Company upon a sidetrack where it could be by that company
conveniently loaded. Four automobiles were then moved
by their own power to the place of loading and together
with an extra automobile body and other automobile
parts were loaded in the car by the shipper. When the
car was loaded, triplicate receipts on the form usually
used by the Express Company were made out and handed

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

to the agent of the Automobile Company, who read them,
observed the absence of declaration of value and the limitation of $50.00, and said they were satisfactory. Before the
shipment moved, the agent of the Express Company again
called the attention of the agent of the shipper to the
absence of declared valuation, inquired whether such
declaration had been intentionally omitted and whether
the property Was insured, and was told that the omission
was intentional and that the property was insured. Indeed it was shown beyond dispute that the failure to
declare an additional value was the result of a change in
the method of shipping its goods which had been shortly
before put in practice by the Automobile Company, and
that in this particular case the additional value was not
declared because the shipment had been ordered from
San Francisco, and the primary rate, that is the one shown
by the tariff on weight or volume based upon the primary
value, had been designated from San Francisco as the
rate under which the goods should be carried. The car
moved toward its destination but never reached there
because while in transit on the rails of the Santa Fe Railway in the State of Missouri it was destroyed by fire.
This suit was then brought by the Automobile Company
against the Express Company and the Santa Fe Railway
to recover $20,000.00, the alleged value of the automobiles.
The suit as to the Santa Fe Railway was dismissed for
want of service and the case was tried only against the
Express Company. As the case went to the jury, there
was no denial of some liability on the part of the Express
Company, the issue being whether its responsibility was
limited to the sum of $50.00, the value of the automobiles
as stated in the shipping receipt, which was in accordance
with the published and filed tariff, or embraced the actual
value of the things shipped. The trial court sustained
the limitation in the receipt and directed a verdict for the
$50.00 only, and after the affirmance by the Circuit Court

PIERCE CO. v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Appeals of the Second Circuit of the judgment of the
trial court entered on such instructed verdict (189 Fed.
Rep. 561), the writ of certiorari which brings the case
before us was granted.
The case as made therefore presents the question
whether one'whb has deliberately and purposely, without
imposition or fraud, accepted a contract of shipment
limiting the amount of recovery to $50.00, which is the
sum named in the filed tariffs as the amount of recovery
in the absence of declaration of a greater value on the part
of the shipper, who is given the privilege of paying an increased rate and having the liability for the fulf value of
the goods, is entitled in case of loss to recover the full value
of the property.
That contracts for limited liability, when fairly made,
do not contravene the settled principles of the common
law preventing the carrier from contracting against its
liability for loss by negligence (Railroad Campany v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 375) was sqttled by this court in what
is known as the Hart Case (Hart v. Pennsylvania.R. R.),
112 U. S.331. In that case a recovery limited to $1,200
for 6 horses, one shown to be worth $15,000 and the others
from $3,000 to $3,500 each, was sustained upon the principle that the contract did not relieve against the carrier's
negligence, but limited the amount that might be recovered for such negligence, and it was there held that
such contracts when fairly made did not contravene public
policy. That case has been frequently followed since and
itA doctrine applied in construing limited liability "contracts in connection with the Carmack Amendment to
the Interstate Commerce Act, in a series of cases beginning
with the Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 22.6 U. S. 491.
See in this connection Wells, Fargo & Co. v: NeimanMarcus Co., 227 t. S. 469; Kansas Southern Railway v.
Carl, 227 U. S.639; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Harriman,227
U. S.657; Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific v. Cramer, 232

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

U. S. 490; Boston & Maine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97;
A., T. & S. F. Ry. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173.
The facts detailed show that there was nothing unfair
in the contract. It was made between competent parties,
dealing at arms' length, and for the purpose, so far as the
shipper was concerned, of securing the lower rate, it
deliberately took upon itself the risk of lessened recovery
in case of loss for the sake of the lower rate.
Since the Act to Regulate Commerce and its amendments have gone into effect, cases of this character must
be decided in view of the provisions of the Commerce
Act and its requirement that the carrier shall file its
tariffs and rates which shll be open to inspection and
shall prescribe rates applicable to all shippers alike, thus
to effect one of the main purposes of the law often declared by this court, to require like treatment of all shippers and the charging of uniform rates equally applicable to
all under like circumstances. As this court said in one of
the earlier cases, considering the limited liability contracts
in connection with the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act (Kansas'SoutAern Railway v. Carl, 227 U. S.
639, 652):
"The valuation declared. or agreed upon as evidenced
by the contract of shipment upon which the published
tariff rate is applied, must be conclusive in an action to
recover for loss or damage a greater sum. . . . To
permit such a declared valuation to be overthrown by
evidence aliunde the contract, for the purpose of enabling
the shipper to obtain a recovery in a suit for loss or damage
in excess of the maximum valuation thus fixed, would
both encourage and reward undervaluations and bring
about preferences and discriminations forbidden by the
law. Such a result would neither be just nor conducive
to sound morals or wise policies. The valuation the
shipper declares determines the legal rate where there are
two rates based upon valuation. He must take notice of

PIERCE CO. v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
236 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

the rate applicable, and actual want of knowledge is no
excuse."
But it is said, and this fact was the basis of the dissenting
opinion in the Circuit Court of Appeals, that there was no
valuation at all in this case, and that the disproportion
between the actual value of the automobiles shipped,about $15,000,-and $50 demonstrates this fact, and it is
insisted that what was done was merely an arbitrary and
unreasonable limitation in the guise of valuation. This
argument overlooks the fact that the legality of the contract does not depend upon a valuation which shall have
a relation to the actual worth of the property. None such
was attempted in the Neiman-Marcus Case, the Croninger
Case, or the Hooker Case. But the contract embodied in
the receipt was sustained in the Express Company Cases,
because of the acceptance of the same by the parties as the
basis of shipment, and by force of the statute as to the
filed tariff and the requirement of the shipper to take notice of its terms and to be bound thereby. In each of those
cases the filed tariff showed an opportunity to the shipper
to have a recovery in a greater value than was declared,
thus making it optional with the shipper to ship at the
lower rate and not to avail himself of the right to greater
recovery upon paying the higher rate named in the tariff.
As the cases cited have held, so long as the tariff rate
remains operative, the alternative rates based on value
are deemed to be in force and controlling of the rights of
the parties. Great NorthernRy. v. O'Connor,232 U. S. 508;
Boston & Maine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, 121.
If the rates were unreasonable it is for the Commission
to correct them upon proper proceedings. If this were not
so, the Interstate Commerce Act would fail to make effectual one of its prime objects, the prevention of discrimination among shippers. So long as the tariffs are adhered to,
shippers under the same circumstances are treated alike.
Since the cause of action in this case arose, the Inter-

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

state Commerce Commission has dealt with this subject,
(The Matter of Express Rates, 28 I. C. C. 131), and the
fifty-dollar limitation and the classification based upon
the valuation not exceeding $50 has been made applicable
only to shipments weighing not more than 100 pounds.
(28' I. C. C. 137, 138.) Under that weight the recovery
is still limited to the sum of $50 unless a greater value is
declared at the time of shipment, and the declared value
in excess of the value specified paid for, or agreed to be
paid for, under the schedule of charges for excess value.
The limitation in the tariffs of $50 was made in view of the
great mass of merchandise of moderate value in shipments
received by the Company, and for that reason has been
permitted in modified form to remain in the published
tariffs by the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission in the matter to which we have referred.
In the O'Connor Case (232 U. S. 508) and the Robinson
Case (233 U. S. 173), above cited, the doctrine of the conclusiveness of the filed rates was said to have no application to attempted fraudulent acts or false billing. We do
not perceive how this doctrine can be applicable to the
present case. As the statement of facts shows, the transaction was open and above board, the character of the
goods was plainly disclosed and known to both parties,
and the rate paid was not attempted to be fixed upon actual value alone, but upon a value which the shipper was
competent to agree to, in consideration of the lower rate.
Indeed, if a recovery for full value was to be permitted in
this case, the shipper itself would obtain an undue advantage in recovering such value, when it had purposely
and intentionally taken the risk of less responsibility from
the carrier, for a lower rate. Such result would bring about
the very favoritism which it is the purpose of the Commerce Act to avoid.
The suggestion that there is a wrong to other shippers,
who value their goods at their real worth, is answered by

PIERCE CO. v. WELLS, FARGO & CO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the fact that this tariff was open to all under the same
circumstances, and while it remained in force, any shipper
who wished to take the risk of a recovery for very much
less than the value of his goods might have the benefit of
the shipment at the reduced rate. The contention that
the carrier should have been held to account for the value
of what was left of the automobiles after the wreck and
fire does not seem to be presented by the pleadings and
was not involved in the disposition of the case ultimately
made upon the contract of shipment. We find no error
in the court's withholding that issue from the jury in the
condition of the record.
Finding no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, it is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissenting.

