OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

Appeals of the State, offered no standard of conduct that
it is possible to know. International Harvester Co. v.
Kentucky, 234 U. S. 216. Therefore, the judgment of
conviction against plaintiff in error must be reversed.
It is not necessary to pass on any other question.
Judgment reversed.

A. J. PHILLIPS COMPANY v. GRAND TRUNK
WESTERN RAILWAY CO.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEAILS FOR THE SIXTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 124.

Argued January 15, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

A finding by the Interstate Commerce Commission in a general investigation that an advance in a rate on a specified commodity between specified points is unreasonable inures to the benefit of every
shipper who has paid the unjust rate, provided however, that he
asserts his claim against the carrier within the time fixed by law.
A shipper who paid charges prior to the passage of the Hepburn Act
and did not commence proceedings until more than one year after
the passage of that act cannot recover on the strength of a finding of
the Interstate Commerce Commission made in a general proceeding
to which he was not a party that the rate paid was unreasohable.
The Conformity Act (Rev. Stat. 914) does not apply to a state rule of
practice prohibiting taking advantage of the statute of limitations
by general demurrer to a cause arising under a Federal statute expressly limiting the time within which the right created by the
statute can be asserted-in which case the lapse of time not only
bars the remedy but destroys the liability.
The prohibitions of the Interstate Commerce Act against unjust discriminations relate not only to inequality of facilities but also to
giving preferences by means of consent judgments or waivers of
defenses open to the carrier.

Qucere, whether connecting carriers participating in a haul, the advanced

PHILLIPS v. GRAND TRUNK RY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rate for which was held by the Commission to be excessive but who
were not responsible for advancing the rate, could be held jointly
and severally responsible for reparation before they had been heard
by the Commission.

The facts, which involve the right of a shipper to recover
from the carrier freight charges held to have been unreasonable by the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
provisions in the Hepburn Act limiting the time within
which claims of that nature can be asserted, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. Edward H. S. Martin and Mr. George M. Stephen for
plaintiff in error.
Mr. L. C. Stanley for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR delivered the opinion of the court.
The A. J. Phillips Company is a manufacturer of doors
at Fenton, Michigan. For use in its business it purchased
large quantities of lumber, much of which was shipped
from points in Alabama, over the lines of the Illinois
Central, the Southern, the Grand Trunk Western, and
the Detroit & Milwaukee Railway Companies. Prior
to April, 1903, the rate to Fenton was 28 cents a hundred',of which 14 cents was the charge for the haul, over the
Southern and the Illinois Central, from Alabama points
to the Ohio River. The remaining 14 cents represented
the charge of the Grand Trunk and the Detroit Companies
for the haul from the Ohio River to Fenton.
In April, 1903, the Illinois Central, the Southern Railway, and other carriers operating in the Gulf States,
filed a tariff which made an advance of 2 cents per hundred
on lumber shipped from Alabama mills to the Ohio River
and beyond.
On July 24, 1903, the Yellow Pine Association filed a
complaint with the Interstate Commerce Commission
seeking to have this increase declared to be unreasonable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court. '

236 U. S.

After a hearing the Commission held (10 I. C. C. 505-547)
that "the advance of 2 cents was not warranted under
all the facts and evidence and that the resultant increased
rate is unreasonable and unjust. An order will be issued
in accordance with these views." The carriers sought to
have this order enjoined, but the action of the Commission was sustained by the Circuit Court and, on May 27,
1907, that ruling was affirmed by the Supreme Court of
the United States (206 U. S. 441)-After which-as
appears from the official reports (Joyce v. Ill. Cent. R. R.,
15 I. C. C. 239)-the Commission approved the settlement of a number of claims for reparation which had
been previously filed. The Phillips Company was not
a party to, the proceedings before the Commission and
made no claim for reparation but on May 11, 1909, it
brought suit in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan, against the four
carriers named above, for the recovery of the overcharge.
The declaration,-which by reference, made the report of
the Commission in 10 I. C. C. 505 a part of the pleading
(Robinson v. B. & 0. R. R., 222 U. S. 507)-alleged that
the four carriers had charged plaintiff 30 cents per hundred
though they well knew that 28 cents was the highest
just and reasonable freight rate that could be charged
on lumber and that anything in excess of 28 cents was
illegal, unjust and excessive. It was also averred that the
Commission on the complaint of the Yellow Pine Association had found the 2 cent advance to be unreasonable, and
for that reason the plaintiff claimed that the defendantcarriers were each and all bound to return to it the 2 cent
overcharge on 218 cars of lumber. There was a prayer
for judgment for $5,000 damages and $2,000 attorney's
fees.
The Southern Railway was not served. The Illinois
Central having no office in the district was ultimately
dismissed from the case. The demurrer of the other two

PHILLIPS v. GRAND TRUNK RY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

defendants was sustained. That judgment was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, and the case brought
here by writ of error.
1. The Phillips Company, relying on a finding by the
Commission on the complaint of the Yellow Pine Association, that a 2 cents advance in a lumber rate was unreasonable, brought suit against four carriers to recover an
overcharge collected on 90,432,500 pounds of lumber
shipped to it over their connecting lines. But as the plaintiff was not a party before the Commission the defendants
insist that it cannot take advantage of the order that the
rate was unjust, so as to be able to maintain the present
suit.
But the proceeding before the Commission, to determine the reasonableness of the 2 6ents advance, was not
in the nature of private litigation between a Lumber
Association and the carriers, but was a matter of public
concern in which the whole body of shippers was interested. The inquiry as to the reasonableness of the advance
was general in its nature. The finding thereon was general
in its operation and inured to the benefit of every person
that had been obliged to pay the unjust rate. Otherwise
those who filed the complaint, or intervened during the
hearing, would have secured an advantage over the
general body of the public, with the result that the order
of the Commission would have created a preference in
favor of the parties.to the record and would have destroyed
the very uniformity which that body had been organized
to secure. The plaintiff and every other shipper similarly
situated was entitled by appropriate proceedings before
the Commission or the courts to obtain the benefit of
that general finding and order. See Abilene Case, 204
U. S. 446; Robinson v. B. & 0., 222 U. S. 507; Baer Bros. v.
Denver &c., 233 U. S. 479, 489, and compare Nicola v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R., 14 I. C. C. 200 (4), 205.
2. But while every person who had paid the rate could

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

take advantage of the finding that the advance was unreasonable, he was obliged to assert his claim within the
time fixed by law. When the overcharge was collected
a cause of action at once arose and the shipper at once
had the right to file a complaint or to intervene in proceedings instituted by others. If he failed to take either
of those steps and there was a finding of unreasonableness in the proceedings begun by others, he could, if in
time, present his claim, and await the result of the litigation over the validity of any order made at the instance
of those parties. If it was ultimately sustained by the
court as valid he would then be in position to obtain
reparation from the Commission-or a judgment from a
court of competent jurisdiction, on a claim that had
been seasonably presented. But neither proceedings
begun by other shippers, nor findings of unreasonableness
and orders issued thereon by the Commission, would
save the rights of those who disregarded the requirements
of the Hepburn Amendment, that,
"all complaints for the recovery of damages shall be
filed with the Commission within two years from the time
the cause of action accrues, and not after, and a petition
for the enforcement of an order for the payment of money
shall be filed in the Circuit Court within one year from
the date of the order, and not after; provided, that claims
accrued prior to the passage of this act may be presented
within one year." 34 Stat. 586.
In the present case the overcharges were made and paid
prior to August, 1904. The present suit was brought
May 9, 1909,-less than two years after the validity of
the Commission's order was sustained by the Supreme
Court,-but, more than one year after the passage of the
Hepburn Amendment, and more than four years after
the plaintiff's cause of action arose.
3. It is argued, however, that under the Conformity
Act (R. S. 914), the case is to be governed by the Michigan

PHILLIPS v. GRAND TRUNK RY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

practice, which does not permit a defendant to take
advantage of the statute of limitations by a general demurrer to the declaration. But that rule does not apply to
a cause of action arising under a statute which indicates
its purpose to prevent suits on delayed claims, by the
provision that all complaints for damages should be filed
within two years and not after. Under such a statute the
lapse of time not only bars the remedy but destroys the
liability (Finnv. United States, 123 U. S. 227, 232) whether
complaint is filed with the Commission.or suit is brought
in a court of competent jurisdiction. This will more
distinctly appear by considering the requirements of
uniformity which, in this as in so many other iistances
must be borne in mind in construing the Commerce Act.
The obligation of the carrier to adhere to the legal rate, to
refund only what is permitted by law and to treat all
shippers alike would have made it illegal for the carriers,
either by silence or by express waiver, to preserve to the
Phillips Company a right of action which the statute required should be asserted within a fixed period. To have
one period of limitation where the complaint is filed before
the Commission and the varying periods of limitation of
the different States, where a suit was brought in a court of
competent jurisdiction; or to permit a railroad company to
plead the statute of limitations as against some and to
waive it as against others would be to prefer some and
discriminate against others in violation of the terms of the
Commerce Act which forbids all devices by which such
results may be accomplished. The prohibitions of the
statute against unjust discrimination relate not only to
inequality of charges and inequality of facilities, but also
to the giving of preferences by means of consent judgments
or the waiver of defenses open to the carrier. The Railroad
Company therefore was bound to claim the benefit of the
statute here and could do so here by general demurrer.
For when it appeared that the complaint had not been

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

filed within the time required by the statute it was evi-dent, as matter of law, that the plaintiff had no cause of
action. The carrier not being liable to the plaintiff for
overcharges collected more than four years prior to the
bringing of this suit, it was proper to dismiss the action.
4. There is the further contention that the connecting
carriers operating north of the Ohio River had to collect
the filed tariff rate of 30 cents per hundred, even though
they were not responsible for the advance, and that in no
event could they be held liable for the refund until after
they had been heard by the Commission. There is nothing
in this record indicating that the Commission undertook
to impose a liability upon those who had not been heard.
But the conclusion that the plaintiff's cause of action
had been lost by lapse of time, makes it unnecessary to
determine whether carriers participating in the haul,but who did not put 'in the advance, or who were not
parties to the proceeding in which a portion of the rate was
held to be unreasonable,-could be held jointly and
severally liable for the collections made by them while
the 30 cent rate *as in force. The suit was properly
dismissed on other grounds and the judgment is
Affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR -LINE RAILWAY v. PADGETT,
ADMINISTRATRIX OF PADGETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 710.

Argued February 24, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

Where plaintiff in error seeks to review under ยง 237, Judicial Code, the
judgment of the state court in a case arising under the Employers'
LiabilityAct, this court may not consider non-Federal questions

