JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

531

Syllabus.

accrued from their own default in unjustly withholding
payment after being notified of the default of the principal." United States v. Hills, 4 Cliff. 618; Fed. Cas.
No. 15,369. This is, in effect, the same rule followed by
this court in Ives v. Merchants' Bank, supra. See also
United States v. Quinn, 122 Fed. Rep. 65.

We find nothing else in the record requiring discussion.
The result is that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed, and that of the Circuit Court
affirmed.
Judgment reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

JOPLIN MERCANTILE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 648. Argued January 11, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
A mere conspiracy without overt acts done to effect its object is not
indictable under § 37, Judicial Code, and where the averment respecting the formation of the conspiracy refers to no other clause of
the indictment for certainty, it must be interpreted as it stands, and
in the absence of a distinct averment that the conspiracy was formed
to introduce liquors into Indian country within Oklahoma from
without the State, the indictment must be construed as relating only
to intrastate transactions; it cannot be construed as including interstate transactions because of other averments as to the overt acts of
some of the conspirators.
Where concurrent State and Federal control, although not necessarily
exclusive of each other, would be productive of serious inconvenience

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Parties.

236 U. S.

and confusion, this court may be, as in construing the act of March 1,
1895, and the Oklahoma Enabling Act, constrained to hold that the
active exercise of Federal authority in suppressing the introduction
of liquor into Indian country under the former was intended to be
suspended pending the exertion of state authority on the same subject as prescribed by the Enabling Act.
Pending the continuance of state prohibition as prescribed by the
Oklahoma Enabling Act, the provisions of the Act of March 1,
1895, c. 145, 28 Stat. 693, respecting intrastate transactions in regard
to introducing intoxicating liquors into that part of the State which
was the Indian Territory are unenforceable, although the statute
has not been expressly repealed.
The Oklahoma Enabling Act did not repeal the acts of 1892 and 1897,
prohibiting the introduction of liquor into Indian country within
Oklahoma either as to interstate or, intrastate shipments, Ex parte
Webb, 225 U. S. 663, and United States v. Wright, 229 U. S. 226, and
in this case the indictment sufficiently charges a conspiracy to
commit an offense against those acts.
213 Fed. Rep. 926, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the Federal statutes relating to the introduction of
liquor into Indian country within the State of Oklahoma,
are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Paul A. Ewert, with whom Mr. C. H. Montgomery
was on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for the United
States.
By leave of court, Mr. E. G. McAdams, Mr. Norman R.
Haskell, Mr. C. B. Stuart, Mr. A. C. Cruce and Mr. M. K.

Cruce filed a brief as amici curie:
Unless construed as relinquishing. Federal control
of intrastate commerce in intoxicating liquors between
other parts of Oklahoma and the former Indian Territory,
§ 3 of the Oklahoma Enabling Act is repugnant to Art. I,
§ 8, Const. U. S., as an unconstitutional attempt to

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 533
236 U. S.

Argument for amici curiae.

authorize concurrent regulation of commerce which must
be exclusively regulated either by State or Nation.
If susceptible of a reasonable construction, which will
avoid constitutional question, the statute will be so construed.
The statute may be reasonably construed as remitting
to the State exclusive control of intrastate transactions.
The State and the Nation cannot regulate the same commerce at the same time, but Congress may relinquish exclusive control to State. It has done so by the Oklahoma
Enabling Act, as to intrastate commerce in liquors.
The act of March 1, 1895, having been superseded as
to intrastate transactions by the Enabling Act, Const.
U. S., Art. I, § 9, forbids its continuance in force as to
interstate transactions.
This contention is not foreclosed by Ex parte Webb, 225
U. S. 663.
The act of March 1,'1895, is entitled to be called a regulation of Congress.
Art. 1, § 9 of the Constitution forbids the giving of a
preference by any regulation of commerce to one State
over another; itapplies to commerce on land as well as
by sea.
Treated as a regulation of commerce with Indian tribes,
the statute gives a preference to Oklahoma, by permitting that State to regulate for itself the commerce in
intoxicating liquors between its people and the former
Indian Territory, while denying to the people of other
States the right to engage in such commerce, under pain
of Federal prosecution.
Treated as a regulation of interstate commerce, the act
discriminates against Oklahoma by forbidding interstate
commerce with a large part of Oklahoma, while not forbidding the introduction of liqupr into any other State.
In support of these contentions see, Bank of Alexandria
v. Dyer, 14 Peters, 141; Bowman v. Chicago &c. Ry., 125

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

U. S. 465; Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645; Ex parte Cain,
20 Oklahoma, 125; The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616;
C., R. I. & P. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426;
Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Re Debs, 158 U. S. 564;
Dooley v. United States, 183 U. S. 168; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9
Wheat. 1, 189; Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S. 333;
Re Heff, 197 U. S. 488; L. S. & M. S. Ry. v. Ohio, 173
U. S. 285; Leisy v. Hardin, 136 U. S. 100; Murray's
Lessee v. Baker, 3 Wheat. 541; N..Y. C. & H. R. R. v.
Freeholders, 227 U. S. 248; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling
Bridge, 18 How. 421; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. West. Un.
Tele. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Perrinv. United States, 232 U. S. 478;
Prentice & Egan on Commerce Clause; Shelby v. Guy, 11
Wheat. 361; Stephens v. Cherokee Nation, 174 U. S. 445;
Thomas v. Gay, 169 U. S. 264; Tiger v. Western Invest. Co.,
221 U. S. 286; United States v. 43 Gallons Whiskey, 93
U. S. 188; United States v. Holliday, 3 Wall. 407; United
States v. Wright, 229 U. S. 226; United States v. Del. &
Hud. Co., 213 U. S. 366; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S.
504; Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663; Whitney v. Robertson,
124 U. S.190; Worcester v. Georgia, 6 Peters, 515.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the

court.
In the District Court of the United States for the
Southwestern Division of the Western District of Missouri
the petitioners, Joplin Mercantile Company and Joseph
Filler, with others, were indicted, under § 37 of the
Criminal Code (Act of March 4, 1909, c. 321, 35oStat. 1088,
1096), formerly §5440, Rev. Stat.; the charge being that at
Joplin, Missouri, within the jurisdiction of the court, the
defendants did unlawfully, feloniously, etc., "conspire
together to commit an offense against the United States of
America, to wit, to unlawfully, knowingly, and feloniously
introduce and attempt to introduce malt, spirituous,

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 535
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

vinous, and other intoxicating liquors into the Indian
country which was formerly the Indian Territory and now
is included in a portion of the State of Oklahoma, and into
the City of Tulsa, Tulsa County, Oklahoma, which was
formerly within and is now a part of what is known as the
Indian country, and into other parts and portions of that
part of Oklahoma which lies within the Indian country."
Overt acts are alleged, each of which consisted in delivering to an express company in Joplin certain packages of
intoxicating liquors to be transported thence to Tulsa,
Oklahoma, alleged to be within the Indian country. A
demurrer and a motion to quash having been overruled,
petitioners pleaded to the indictment, were tried and
found guilty. A motion in arrest of judgment having been
denied, they sued out a writ of error from the Circuit Court
of Appeals, where the only question raised was whether
the indictment charged an offense against the laws of the
United States; neither the evidence nor the charge of the
trial court being brought up. The judgment of the District Court was affirmed (213 Fed. Rep. 926), and the
present writ of certiorari was applied for, principally upon
the ground that the decision of the Court of Appeals was
to some extent in conflict with the views expressed by this
court in Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663, and United States V
Wright, 229 U. S. 226.
That clause of the indictment which sets forth the conspiracy does not in terms allege, as a part of it, that the
liquor was to be brought from without the State of
Oklahoma; nor does this clause refer, ,for light upon its
meaning, to the clauses that set forth the, overt acts.
Hence, we do not think the latter clauses can be resorted
to in aid of the averments of the former. It is true, as
held in Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S. 62, 76; and Hyde v. United
States, 225 U. S. 347, 359; that a mere conspiracy, without
overt act done to effect its object, is not punishable criminally under § 37 of the Criminal Code. But the averment

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

of the making of the unlawful agreement relates to the
acts of all the accused, while overt acts may be done by
one or more less than the entire number, and although
essential to the completion of the crime, are still, in a
sense, something apart from the mere conspiracy, being
"an act to effect the object of the conspiracy." For this
reason, among others, it seems to us that where, as here,
the averment respecting the formation of the conspiracy
refers to no other clause for certainty as to its meaning, it
should be interpreted as it stands. United States v.
Britton, 108 U. S. 199, 205. We therefore think the Court
of Appeals properly treated this indictment as not charging that the liquors were to be introduced from another
State, and correctly assumed in favor of the accused
(supposing the law makes a distinction), that the design
attributed to them looked. only to intrastate commerce
in intoxicants. The suggestion of the Government that
the omission of a distinct averment that the conspiracy
was to introduce the liquors from without the State did
not prejudice petitioners, and should be regarded after
verdict as a defect in form, to be ignored under § 1025,
Rev. Stat., cannot be accepted, since we have before us
only the strict record, and therefore cannot say that the
trial proceeded upon a different theory from that indicated
by the indictment, or that its averments were supplemented by the proofs.
The offense against the laws of the United States that
was the object of the conspiracy must have had reference
to one or the other of two distinct prohibitions. The
one is that arising from the Act of July 23, 1892, c. 234,
27 Stat. 260, amending §2139, Rev. Stat., and amended in
its turn by the Act of January 30, 1897, c. 109, 29 Stat.
506. The other is § 8 of the Act of March 1, 1895, c. 145,
28 Stat. 693. These are set forth in chronological order
in 225 U. S.671. The distinction now pertinent is that,
under the act of 1897: "Any person who shall introduce

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 537
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

or attempt to introduce any malt, spirituous, or vinous
liquor . . .. or any ardent or intoxicating liquor of
any kind whatsoever into the Indian country, which term
shall include any Indian allotment while the title to the
same shall be held in trust by the Government, or while
the same shall remain inalienable by the allottee without
the consent of the United States, shall be punished," etc.;
while the Act of 1895 declares: "That any person,
who shall, in said [Indian] Territory, manufacture
any vinous, malt, or fermented liquors, or any other
intoxicating drinks . . . or who shall carry, or in
any manner have carried, into said Territory any such
liquors or drinks . . . shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished," etc. The former has to do with the introduction of liquor into the "Indian country"; the latter
relates not, to the Indian country as such, but to the
Indian Territory as a whole, irrespective of whether it,
or any particular part of it, remained "Indian country."
In Ex parte Webb, supra, we dealt with the effect of the
Oklahoma Enabling Act, and the admission of the State
thereunder, upon the prohibitions contained in the act
of 1895, and held that this act remained in force so far
as it prohibited the carrying of liquor from without the
new State into that part of it which was formerly the
Indian Territory. In United States v. Wright, supra, we
held that the prohibition against the introduction of intoxicating liquors into the Indian country found in the
act of 1897 was not repealed with respect to intrastate
transactions by the Enabling Act and the admission of
the State. In the present case, the Court of Appeals
held that transportation of intoxicating liquors from the
westerly portion of Oklahoma to that part which was
formerly Indian Territory was prohibited not only by
the act of 1897 but by the act of 1895; holding that this
act remained unrepealed as to intrastate commerce in
intoxicating liquors, notwithstanding the intimations of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court. ,

236 U. S.

this court to the contrary in the Webb and Wright Cases.
In behalf of the Government it is now insisted that the
indictment is clearly sustainable under the act of 1897,
and that it is therefore' unnecessary to pass upon the
question raised about the Act of 1895. But, in view of its
importance, and the confusion that would probably result
if the matter were left in uncertainty, we deemed it proper
to allow the writ of certiorari, and now deem it proper to
pass upon the merits of the question with respect to both
Acts.
The Court of Appeals correctly considered that the
question whether the act of 1895 remains in force respecting intrastate transactions was not concluded by
our decision in either the Webb or the Wright Cases. The
declaration upon the subject in 225 U. S. at p. 681 was
based upon a concession by the Government, and was
stated in unqualified form in order to emphasize that the
concession was fully accepted for the purposes of the decision. In the Wright Case (229 U. S. at p. 236) we saw
no reason to recall it, and so stated; but here again the
point was not involved in the question to be decided. It
was accepted arguendo, rather as an obstacle in the way of
reaching the conclusion that the court did reach, upon
grounds that held good, as we thought, notwithstanding
the point conceded. As was well said by Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, in one of his great opinions, Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 399: "It is a maxim not to be disregarded, that general expressions, in every opinion, are
to be taken in connection with the case in which those
expressions are used. If they go beyond the case, they
may be respected, but ought not to control .the judgment
in a subsequent suit when the very point is presented for
decision." And if this be true with respect to mere dicta,
it is no less true of concessions made for the purpose of
narrowing the range of discussion, or of testing, by assumed obstacles, the validity of the reasoning by which

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 539
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the court reaches its conclusions upon the point submitted
for decision.
The Court of Appeals declared that the effect of holding
that the Enabling Act and the admission of the State
repealed the law of 1895 as to importations from parts of
Oklahoma not in Indian Territory, would be that importations would remain prohibited from the north, south, and
east of the Territory, while those from the west would
be turned over to the State; and that the provision of the
Enabling Act requiring the constitution of the new State
to provide a scheme of liquor prohibition is of no validity
if Oklahoma sees fit to repeal the prohibition, as it is said
she is at liberty to do, being equal in power with the original States and entitled to set aside all restrictions placed
upon her that are not obligatory under the Constitution.
Citing Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559. As indicating
that the act was passed in part as an exertion of the
power of guardianship over the Indians, and in part
under the power to regulate commerce with them, the
court pointed to the pledges of the Federal Government,
contained in repeated treaties, to protect the Indians of
the Civilized Tribes against the evils of intercourse with
people of the white race, especially with respect to the
sale of intoxicating liquors; emphasizing the fact that
Indian Territory contains the largest body of Indian
population in the United States, from which the inference
was drawn that Congress could not turn them over to the
protection of the local authorities without running counter
to the uniform practice of the Federal Government in
such matters; that § 1 of the Enabling Act expressly
reserves full authority to the National Government for
the protection of the Indians and their property, and that
protection against the liquor traffic has always been their
greatest need; and that numerous statutes, passed about
the time Oklahoma was admitted, to protect the Indians
against the evils of intoxicating liquor, showed that Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

gress intended to exercise this protection itself and not to
remit it to the State. The conclusion was reached that
the liquor prohibition imposed upon the State by § 3 of
the Enabling Act (quoted at large 225 U. S. 677) was intended to secure the cooperation of the state authorities,
and not to remit to the State the whole subject of the
guardianship of the Indians so far as approach to them
from the west was concerned. That since, even after admission of the State, there was nothing to prevent Congress from prohibiting importation of liquors into the
Indian Territory, peopled, as it was, so largely by Indians,
there was no reason to believe that the admission of the
State was intended to repeal the 1895 law with respect to
the western boundary of 'the Indian Territory; that under
the circumstances of that Territory the acts of 1892 and
1897 were inefficient for the protection of the Indians
in this regard, while with the act of 1895 alone in force,
prohibiting the carrying of liquor within the Indian
Territory, it would not be unlawful to transport liquor
from a point within that Territory to an allotment therein;
hence the necessity of maintaining in force at the same
time the provisions of the acts of 1892 and 1897 prohibiting the introduction of liquor into the Indian country.
The argument has much weight. This court, when
deciding the Webb and Wright Cases, fully appreciated the
force of the considerations referred to, as will be manifest,
we think, by reference to the opinions, especially that
delivered in the former case. But it seems to us that the
views expressed by the court belpw in the present case
merely question the reasonableness of implying -a repeal
of the act of 1895, and hardly attribute full force to the
very clear language of the Enabling Act. Upon the
question of reasonableness, the fact that importations of
liquor into the Territory from the north, east, and south
should remain subject to the interdict of the Federal law,
while importations from the west (unless originating

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES. 541
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

without the State) were remitted to state control, is not
an anomalous result but one rather characteristic of the
inter-action of our Federal and state governments.
We pass on to state, in outline, the grounds upon which
the judgment is assailed by counsel for petitioners, and
in a separate argument by friends of the court. It is insisted that the provision of the Enabling Act requiring
the State to forbid, under penalties, the introduction of
intoxicating liquors from other parts of the State into the
former Indian Territory can be upheld only by construing
it as repealing the provisions of the act of 1895 so far
as they deal with such intrastate transactions, because '
otherwise the Enabling Act would be repugnant to the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution of the United
States as an attempt to authorize concurrent regulation
by state and Federal authority of commnerce with the
Indians, which it is said, must be exclusively regulated
either by State or by Nation; that the Enabling Act
may be reasonably construed as relinquishing to the State
the exclusive control over commerce in intoxicating liquors
between other parts of the State and the former Indian
Territory, but not as a regulation of commerce with Indians, because, it is insisted, under the Constitution,
Congress cannot delegate to a State the power to regulate
commerce with the Indians, any more than the power to
regulate interstate commerce, and hence the prohibition
clause of the Enabling Act is to be sustained as a surrender
to the State of jurisdiction over its own citizens, thereby
declared by Congress to be no longer members of Indian
tribes so far as commerce in intoxicating liquors is concerned; the Enabling Act being thus treated as in effect
a determination by Congress that the tribal relations and
guardianship of the Indians should cease, at least as to
traffic in liquor between them and the citizens of other
portions of the State, leaving the State to regulate this
by means of the legislation that the Enabling Act re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

quired it to enact on the subject. It is next argued that,
the act of 1895 having been superseded as to intrastate
transactions by the Enabling Act, it is beyond the power
of Congress to continue it in force as to interstate transactions, and this for two reasons, both based upon the
provision of § 9 of Article I of the Constitution that "No
1preference shall be given by any regulation of commerce
or revenue to the ports of one State over those of another": (a) that the prohibition cannot be maintained
as an exercise of the power to regulate interstate commerce, because in that aspect it discriminates against the
State of Oklahoma by forbidding transportation of liquor
into that State from without, while permitting the unrestricted transportation of liquor into the other States; and
(b) that it cannot be sustained as an exercise of the power
of Congress to regulate commerce with the Indian tribes
because it gives a preference to the State of Oklahoma by
permitting that State to regulate for itself the commerce
in intoxicating liquors between the people of other parts
of the State and the former Indian Territory, while denying to the people of 4ll the other States the right to engage
in such commerce with the same Territory. The result
sought to be deduced is that, by reason of the passage of
the Enabling Act and the admission of the State thereunder, the act of 1895 cannot be sustained at all. It is
said this does not impute to Congress the purpose to pass
an act in excess of its powers under the Constitution;
that the act when passed was justified not only as a regulation of commerce with the Indian tribes but 'as an exercise of jurisdiction over territory then within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States; and that it is
now unconstitutional as to interstate transactions, not
because of the want of power in Congress to originally
pass it, but because of the changed conditions growing
out of the admission of the State under an Enabling Act
inconsistent with the continuance in force of the act of

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

543

Opinion of the Court.

1895. And it is said that this question is not foreclosed
by the decision in the Webb Case sustaining the act as to
interstate transactions, because-and this is true-the
question under § 9 of Article I of the Constitution was not
then raised. Citing Boyd v. Alabama, 94 U. S. 645, 648.
The reasoning, like the opposed reasoning of the court
below, has force; but we think it has also elements of
weakness. Thus,-to mention only one or two of theseit is not easy to see how any practical preference is given
to the State of Oklahoma in the way of permitting commerce in intoxicating liquors to be conducted between
other portions of the State and the former Indian Territory
while denied to the people of other States, when the very
clause of the Enabling Act that operates, if any does, to
destroy the former universality of the act of 1895 does
not permit -but prohibits commerce in liquors between
the one part of the State and the other; the only difference
here important being that as to internal commerce the
State enforces the prohibition, while as to interstate commerce it is enforced by the United States. Nor is the suggestion convincing that the act of 1895 (if repealed as to
intrastate commerce only) remains as a discriminatory
regulation of commerce between the States unfavorable
to Oklahoma; for in this aspect it forbids not the introduction of liquors from other States into Oklahoma, but
only their introduction into that particular part of it
which, because of the larger population of Indians that
it contains, and because of the previous treaties and the
other circumstances pointed out in the Webb Case, Congress deemed to be properly entitled to that protection.
Moreover, supposing that unconstitutional preferences
must be deemed to arise from a partial repeal of the act
of 1895 by the prohibitory provision of the Enabling Act,
it would, we think, be more logical to avoid the constitutional difficulties by giving less force to that provision of
the Enabling Act than by giving to it a force quite beyond

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the expressed purpose of Congress. The result would be,
if the argument of petitioners as to the impossibility of
concurrent regulation of intrastate transactions in liquors
with the former Indian Territory by State and Nation is
sound, that the state prohibition of the liquor traffic in
the Territory and between the other parts of the State
and the Territory would have to remain in abeyance until
Congress should expressly repeal the act of 1895.
Enough has been said to show the principal grounds of
the respective contentions. And it is curious to observe
that on each side the argument rests largely upon the
supposition that the implied repeal of the act of 1895, if
deduced from the inconsistent provisions of the Enabling
Act upon the same subject, operated in effect to legalize
commerce in intoxicating liquors between the eastern and
the western portions of the State. But since the principal
inconsistency is that in one case the prohibition of the
traffic is to be enforced by the United States and in the
other case by the State, many of the difficulties disappear
as soon as clearly stated. We need not further analyze
the constitutional argument submitted in behalf of petitioners, and must not be understood as committed respecting it.
Conceding that the question with which we have to
deal is by no means easy of solution, we think a right
solution may be had by considering the terms of the
Enabling Act in the light of the situation that was presented to Congress, and in view of its constitutional
powers. The situation of the Indians and the Indian lands
at the time is so familiar that it need not be here rehearsed.
In addition to whathas been said upon the subject in our
recent decisions, reference may be made to the Committee
Report that accompanied the bill in the House of Representatives (H. R. Report No. 496, January 23, 1906, 59th
Cong., 1st Sess,, Vol. 1). There was a large population
of Indians in the Indian Territory, but a much larger

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

545

Opinion of the Court.

population of whites. Under the provisions of the Curtis
Act (June 28, 1898, c. 517, 30 Stat. 495), towns had been
organized and were growing rapidly, and much of the
land had been allotted. Congress no doubt had in mind
the existing agreements with the Five Civilized Tribes,
some of them recently made, by which, in one form or
another, the United States had agreed to maintain laws
against the introduction, sale, etc., of liquors within the
territory of the tribes (225 U. S. 684-686). In the first
section of the Enabling Act (June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34
Stat. 267) a reservation was made of the authority of the
United States "to make any law or regulation respecting
such Indians, their lands, property, or other rights by
treaties, agreement, law, or otherwise, which it would
have been competent to make if this Act had never been
passed." The authority of Congress to preserve in force
existing laws or enact new ones after statehood with
reference to traffic or intercourse with the Indians, including the liquor traffic, was well established; the power
of Congress over such commerce being plenary, and independent of state boundaries. United States v. Holliday, 3
Wall. 407, 418; United States v. Forty-Three Gallons of
Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 195, 197; S. C., 108 U. S. 491;
United States v. Kagama, 118 U. S. 375, 383; Dick v. United
States, 208 U. S. 340, 353; Hallowell v. United States, 221
U. S. 317, 323; Ex parte Webb, 225 U. S. 663, 683; United
States v. Wright, 229 U. S. 226, 237; Perrin v. United
States, 232 U. S. 478, 483; Johnson v. Gearlds, 234 U. S.
422, 438.
Still, the Territory was to be erected into a State, and
the Indians themselves were to have the rights of citizens.
As we have already held in the Wright Case, supra, it
was the purpose to maintain in full force the acts of 1892
and 1897 the same in this State as in other States where
Indian country or Indian allotments held in trust by the
Government or Indians as wards of the Government were
VOL. ccxxxvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

found. And while we intimate no question that Congress
could have maintained the more sweeping internal prohibition of the 1895 act, this would have interfered to a
greater extent with the control of the new State over its
internal police.
Reading the Enabling Act as a whole in the light of this
situation, including the declaration in its first section of
the continued authority of the Government of the United
States respecting the Indians, the specific requirement in
the third section that the state constitution should contain a stringent prohibition of the manufacture, sale, etc.,
of intoxicating liquors within the Indian Territory and the
Reservations for a period of twenty-one years from the
date of admission, and thereafter until amendment of the
constitution, and the express provision that any person
who should manufacture, etc., or should ship or convey
such liquors from other parts of the State into the Indian
Territory or Reservations should be punished both by
fine and imprisonment, we think the inference is irresistible that it was the purpose of Congress that the people
of the State should be entrusted with actual power and
control over the liquor traffic between the other portions
of the State and the Territory and Reservations, and that,
for the time at least, they should have the same control
that is enjoyed by other States, it being, of course, subject
to the effect of the acts of 1892 and 1897.
Without deciding that such control must necessarily
be exclusive of co-existing Federal jurisdiction over the
same subject-matter, it seems to us that concurrent jurisdiction would be productive of such serious inconvenience and confusion, that, in the absence of an express
declaration of a purpose to preserve it, we are constrained
to hold that the active exercise of the Federal authority
was intended to be at least suspended pending the exertion by the State of its authority in the manner prescribed
'by the Enabling Act.

JOPLIN MERCANTILE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

547

Opinion of the Court.

Still, the act of 1895 was not expressly repealed; and it
must have been in contemplation that the State might
amend its constitution and laws upon the subject, at least
upon the expiration of twenty-one years; and we do not
intend to hold, nor even to intimate, that the effect and
operation of the act of 1895 upon intrastate commerce
in liquors would still remain in abeyance after a repeal or
material modification of the state prohibition upon the
subject. The subject-matter of this legislation, is quite
different from that which was under consideration in
Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559; and it does not follow
from what was there decided that the plan of intrastate
prohibition proposed to the State by Congress in the
Enabling Act and accepted by the State, would be subject
to repeal by the State within the prescribed period. Nor
does it follow from anything we have said that Congress
may not, during that period, by reenacting in substance
the act of 1895, or by appropriate affirmative legislation in
some other form, resume the Federal control over the
liquor traffic in and with what was Indian Territory, by
virtue of its general authority over Indian relations.
These and kindred questions may be dealt with if and
when occasion arises.
Our opinion upon this branch of the case is that, pending the continuance of state prohibition as prescribed by
the Enabling Act, the provisions of the act of 1895 respecting intrastate transactions are not enforceable.
But, as already held in United States v. Wright, supra,
the Acts of 1892 and 1897 have not been repealed by
the Enabling Act with respect to intrastate commerce in
intoxicants, any more than with respect to commerce
that crosses state lines. And it remains to be considered
whether the indictment sufficiently sets forth a conspiracy
to commit an offense against these acts. This turns upon
the destination of the liquors as intended by the conspirators. It is averred that three several destinations

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

were in contemplation: (a) the Indian country which was
formerly the Indian Territory and now is included in a
portion of the State of Oklahoma; (b) the city of Tulsa,
Tulsa County, Oklahoma, which was formerly within
and is now a part of what is known as the Indian country;
and (c) other parts and portions of that part of Oklahoma
which lies within the Indian country. It is said by petitioners that Tulsa was established as a town under the
Curtis Act of June 28, 1898, and the Creek Agreement
(act of March 1, 1901, c. 676, 31 Stat. 861), and that we
ought to take judicial notice of what is said to appear
upon the records of the Department of the Interior, that
on February 21, 1901, the exterior limits of the town
were approved and the traft thus reserved from allotment and set aside for town site purposes, that unrestricted
patents, have since been issued, and that at the time of the
alleged offense Tulsa was a city of 30,000 people. For the
sake of simplicity we assume the facts to be so, without
deciding that we may take judicial notice of them. But
we think the third clause, "other parts and portions of
that part of Oklahoma which lies within the Indian
country," is sufficient to sustain the indictment in this
respect. It is objected by petitioners that this is vague
and indefinite, and does not apprise the defendants with
certainty of the offense with which they stand charged
so as to enable them to prepare the defense; that there
were more than 100,000 allotments made to Indians of
the Five Civilized Tribes alone, and that the courts should
take judicial notice of the fact that the restrictions upon
three-fourths of the allotments of mixed bloods have been
removed by direct legislation of Congress, not to speak
of the lands taken out of Indian country by being included
within established town sites. But upon this record we
are bound to assume that the indictment sets forth the
agreement as it was made by the convicted defendants.
That agreement looked to the introduction of intoxicating

WILLIAMS v. U. S'. FIDELITY CO.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

liquors into those portions of the State that lie within the
Indian country. Presumably the defendants did not, at
the time of conspiring, specify the particular points in'the
Indian country to which the liquor should be shipped;
nevertheless, the- conspiracy could not be carried out as
made without violating the act of 1897.
The indictment is therefore sufficient, and the judgment
should be affirmed.
Judgment,affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

WILLIAMS v. UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND
GUARANTY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 80. Argued January 18, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.
Statutes should be sensibly construed, with a view. to effectuating the
legislative intent.
It is the purpose of the Bankruptcy Act to convert the assets of the
bankrupt into cash for distribution among creditors and then relieve
the honest debtor from the weight of oppressive indebtedness and
permit him to start afresh free from obligations and responsibilities
consequent upon business misfortunes.
Within the intendment of the bankruptcy law provable debts include
all liabilities of the bankrupt founded on contract, express or implied, which at the time of the bankruptcy were fixed in amount or
susceptible of liquidation.
Under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, the surety of the bankrupt
either shares,. or enjoys-due opportunity to share, in the principal's

