WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.

236 U. S.

Syllabus.

less than carload shipments and passenger traffic, in
accordance with the provisions of § 7 of the Act, that is to
say, "in the same manner and under the same general
conditions except as to motive power as belt line railroads
and terminal railroads are now or may be used for like
purposes." Manifestly, this involves no disregard of the
needs of interstate commerce, and we must indulge the
presumption, until the contrary is made to appear, that
the State will not so construe or enforce the order as to
interfere with or obstruct such commerce. Ohio Tax
Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 591; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas,
235 U. S. 350, 369. The recent decisions of this court,
cited in support of the contention that the order interferes
with interstate commerce (Houston & Tex. Cent. R. R. v.
Mayes, 201 U. S. 321, 329; McNeill v. Southern Railway,
202 U. S. 543, 561; St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 217
U. S. 136, 149; Chi., R. I. &c. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator
Co., 226 U. S. 426, 433); are so plainly distinguishable
that no time need be spent in discussing them.
Judgment affirmed.

WILSON CYPRESS COMPANY v. DEL POZO Y
MARCOS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 135. Argued January 19, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

Although the jurisdiction of the Federal court may have been invoked
solely on account of diverse citizenship, if the object of the suit is to
quiet title to a grant of the former sovereign, depending for its com-

pleteness on a treaty and on laws of the United States and acts of
Federal officers thereunder, this court has jurisdiction to review the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Although the amount of land patented to the grantee of a former
sovereign may have exceeded the amount confirmed by the act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

Congress bnd have been predicated upon a survey and limitation
to the amount confirmed, the patentee has a taxable interest in the
land that can be reached for proper taxation by the State.
Where the lower courts erroneously sustained complainant's contention
that the lands involved were not taxable because never segregated
from the public domain, and therefore did not pass upon the other
contentions also urged by complainant as sufficient to sustain the
title and which involved questions of local law and the weighing of
conflicting evidence, this court will not on finding that the lower
courts erred on the question of taxability finally pass on the other
questions, but will reverse the decree and remand the case to the
lower court for further proceedings in accordance with the opinion.
202 Fed. Rep. 742, reversed.

SUIT to quiet title brought in the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Florida by appellees, whom we shall
call throughout complainants and the appellant defendant.
The bill alleges that the complainants are the heirs at
law of Miguel Marcos, a lieutenant in the Spanish Army;
that he was granted by the lawful authorities of the King
of Spain on the eighteenth of October, 1815, 5,500 acres of
land in the then Province of East Florida, on two banksof a creek which erhpties into the St. John's river about
two miles north of Long Lake; that the grant was confirmed to his widow, Teresa Rodriguez, in her own right
and for and on behalf of her children by the United States
to the extent of a league square; that the grant was an
inchoate right to said tract, under the laws of Spain called
a first title or permit to occupy the land and, after occupancy and proof thereof, to secure a complete or royal title,
but before such title issued Spain ceded East Flotida to
the United States, who, by the eighth article of the treaty
between the United States and Spain, occupied the position of Spain with regard to this and like grants of land
and were pledged to confirm title thereto; that the lands
were neither surveyed nor segregated from the public
domain during the sovereignty of Spain; that the same
were wild and uncultivated, were never in the actual occu-

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

pancy of the grantee or of his widow and children and the
title thereto at the time of the cession of the Floridas
passed to the United States, subject to the equitable
claim of the complainants.
The succession of complainants to the original grant is
traced by the bill and it is alleged that soon after the cession of the Floridas to the United States, Teresa Rodriguez, applied to the board of land commissioners appointed to examine and report on claims to lands in East
Florida for the confirmation of the grant and it was reported by the board to Congress as a valid grant and its
confirmation recommended. That thereafter Congress,
by an act approved May 23, 1828, c. 70, 4 Stat. 284, confirmed it to the extent of a league square, to be located
within the limits of the original claim and bounded by
sectional lines, and to be in quantities of not less than one
section. That under the sixth section of the act of Congress
confirmation of the grant was required to be accepted as a
final settlementof the claim or the claim to be brought before the judge of the Superior Court for the district of East
Florida within one year from the passage of the act; that the
latter proceeding was not had and that by the act of Congress the title to the land was confirmed to the extent of one
league, to be-located within the bounds of the original grant.
That it was held by the judicial and executive branches
of the Government that a league square was 4,438.68
acres. That by the laws then in force in the Territory of
Florida it was the duty of the Surveyor General of the
Territory to make the survey of the lands confirmed to
complainants' ancestor and make certificate thereof and
file the same in the land office of the United States in said
Territory. That among the acts of Congress extending to
said Territory was the act of March '3, 1807, by the terms
of which it was made unlawful to take possession of, survey
or cause to be' surveyed or settle upon any lands ceded or
secured to the United States by any treaty with a foreign

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

nation, or any land, claim to which had not been recognized and confirmed by the United States, under a penalty
of forfeiture of the right, title and claim to such lands.
That the ancestors of complainants were residing in Cuba
on the twenty-third of May, 1828, and they and their
descendants have since that date resided there and none
'of them have resided or been in the United States since
the passage of the act of May 23, 1828, confirming the
grant to the extent of a league square. That the United
States never surveyed and segregated the lands as confirmed, as held by the Land Department of the United
States, and the confirmees had no power to cause such
survey to be made. That the lands embraced in the
grant were surveyed as public lands by the United States
in 1847, and such survey was approved May 15, 1848.
A certified copy of the official plat of survey is attached to
the bill and it is alleged that the lands were held by the
Land Department of the United States to be public lands
and were so treated from 1831 to February 12, 1894, upon
which date the grant described in the bill was by the
Land Pepartment 6f the United States declared to be a
valid, confirmed private grant to Teresa Rodriguez and
ordered to be patented, and thereafter it was so patented to
her, her heirs, assigns and legal representatives, and the
lands described as section 37, township 19, south of range 28,
and section 41, township 19, south of range 29, according to
the plat of the public surveys made by the United States,
and for the aggregate of 5,486.46 acres. That until such recognition of the title of complainants and those under whom
they claim, from and after May 23, 1828, complainants
were excluded from the possession of the lands, and the
United States had both the legal title and possession and
right of possession of them and any occupancy of them by
any other than the United States was a mere trespass; that
before February 12, 1894, complainants and those under
whom they take title were not able to take possession of

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

the lands because the United States claimed the entire
grant as public lands.
The bill then sets out the asserted title of the defendant
to have been derived from a sale to one John Starke on
July 5, 1852, by the sheriff and ex-officio tax collector of

Orange County, Florida, based upon a pretended execution for certain unpaid taxes alleged to have been assessed "upon the 'lands supposed to belong to Teresa
Rodriguez,"' and the said sheriff attempted to deed to
said Starke "'all the right, title and interest of Teresa
Rodriguez and others"' in and to said tracts of land.
That the said sale and deed are absolutely null and void
because (1) it was alleged to be an assessment upon the
single tract containing 5,480 acres and to be payable for
the years 1845 to 1851, both inclusive, during which time
the legal title and possession were in the United States;
that the lands were expressly exempt from taxation by
the statute of the State of Florida during those years,
which declared that the act for the assessment and collection of taxes should not be construed to embrace lands
belonging to the United States. (2) That the amount of
taxes assessed was in excess of what could have been
lawfully levied. (3) That proper notice of the sale was
not given; (4) nor was the land sold in the parcels required. (5) That the deed was not properly executed, it
having no subscribing witness and its record being wholly
unauthorized.
Like invalidity is asserted against the tax and sale of the
land for the years 1867, 1868 and 1869 assessed to John
Starke, and conveyed by the sheriff to one William Mills.
In addition it is alleged that no statute in Florida authorized a tax collector to make a tax deed upon a sale
for the non-payment of taxes, such being the duty of the
county clerk of the county wherein lay the lands. That
the assessment and tax sale and deed to William Mills
were made in execution of a conspiracy by him and Robert

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

C. Patten and one George C. Powell to deprive complainants of their title; that Mills never took possession of the
lands but attempted to convey them to Powell; that
Powell entered only upon section 9 (a part of section 37,
above named)'of said township 19, range 28, and made
some improvements to complainants unknown and .cut
some timber thereon. That he exercised no other acts of
ownership and those were continued but for a short time
and "were not uninterrupted by continued occupancy for
seven years" and were subsequently abandoned by him;
that the possession was not sufficient either in character or
duration to enable him to claim the benefit of the statute
of limitations against any action brought by complainants;
that complainants were precluded from bringing any ac-,
tion because the lands were held and claimed adversely
by the United States and held to be public lands of the
United States. Other tax assessments and sales are
alleged and conveyance and title traced through them to
the defendant, the Wilson Cypress Company, but the
latter has never had such possession as would bar a right
of entry by complainants. It is alleged that complainants
tried to get a recognition of their title but only succeeded
on June 18, 1894.
There are many other allegations which assert the
validity of complainants' title and the invalidity of that of
defendant, and that on June 26, 1895, the United States
quit-claimed and patented to the legal representatives of
Teresa Rodriguez the lands granted to Marcos and which
had been surveyed as section 37, township 19, range 28, and
section 41 of the same township, range 29, containing
5,486.46 acres. That the patent was duly recorded in the
records of the United States and in the public records of
Lake County, Florida, and the grantor of defendant and
defendant had knowledge Of it when the conveyance was
made. That after the issue of the patent complainants
were for the first time entitled to the possession of the

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

lands and from such date they became subject to taxation,
and thereafter complainants sent their agent to Florida
and took possession of the lands and have continued ever
since to claim and have exercised acts of ownership over
them.
It is alleged that the tax deeds referred to in the bill are
fair upon their faces and are clouds upon the title of complainants and hinder them in the full enjoyment of their
property and should be canceled and discharged from
the public records.
It is further alleged that defendant will aver that no
patent was necessary to evidence complainants' title and
that by the confirmation of the grant title vested in the
grantee and' his legal representatives, but complainants
allege that under the facts set out the United States did
not relinquish title until the twenty-sixth of June, 1895,
and before the approval of the survey of the lands granted
the legal title was in the United States and the claim of
complainants attached to no particular land.
There are other allegations of what the defendant will
aver as to possession and right and it is then alleged that
there never has been such possession by defendant as
would establish an adverse holding.
An injunction was prayed against the defendant enjoining it and its officers from exercising acts of ownership
over the land or from disturbing the possession of complainants; that the tax deeds and other deeds set out in
the bill be held to have been executed without authority
of law and that they be annulled and canceled.
The answer is as voluminous as the bill. It negatives
many of the allegations of the bill either by denials or opposing allegations and asserts that the grant from Spain
and its confirmation by the United States passed a complete title to the land. It also asserts the validity of the
title acquired' through the tax deed; alleges the insufficiency of the bill in equity; sets up the statute of limitaVOL. CCXXXVI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Statement of the Case.

236 U. S.

tions, and charges laches and estoppel, the complainants
in the bill having permitted large expenditures for care
and improvement of the property by defendant. And it
also puts in issue the relationship of complainants to
Marcos and Teresa Rodriguez and denies that they are
entitled to maintain the bill.
Upon proof being submitted, and after hearing, it was
decreed that complainants were descendants and heirs at
law of Teresa Rodriguez, the grantee in the patent of the
United States hereinbefore referred to, were entitled to
"an undivided interest in and to the lands" in controversy
(which were specifically described) "and for themselves
and as representatives of all persons claiming title to said
lands through the said Teresa Rodriguez, her heirs and
legal representatives," were "entitled to maintain this
bill to remove cloud from. ' the lands.
The decree recited the tax deeds and the lands which
they purported to convey, and adjudged that the deeds,
having been based upon assessments made prior to the
issue of the patent and while the validity of the grant
to Marcos was denied by the United States, were absolutely null and void and a cloud upon the title of Teresa
Rodriguez and her legal representatives and heirs at law
and set aside.
And it was further decreed that defendant had no
title or interest in the patented lands and that it
and all persons claiming under!-it were enjoined from
setting up any title under the tax deeds or from entering upon or holding possession of the lands or any part
thereof.
The decree was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. The opinion of the court was as follows (202 Fed.
Rep. 742): "The lands in controversy were not segregated from the public domain, and the title thereto remained in the United States until the issuance of the
patent; therefore they were not taxable by the State of

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Florida at the several times they were listed for taxes
and sold for nonpayment thereof."
Mr. John C. Cooperfor appellant.
Mr. William W. Dewhurst, with whom Mr. Joseph H.
Jones and Mr. John C. Jones were on the brief, for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The tedious volume and prolixity of the bill are directed
to establish that Miguel Marcos, the ancestor of complainants, received a grant from the Spanish authorities,
not, becoming complete in his descendants, the complainants, until June 18, 1894, and until such time the lands
which the grant embraced were not subject to state
taxation and that, therefore, the deeds issued to defendant in consequence of such taxation are void. And of this
view were the two lower courts, the one in consequence
entering a decree to quiet the title of complainants against
the deeds, and the other affirming such decree. This
appeal was then taken.
A motion is made to dismiss the a~ppeal on the ground
that the jurisdiction of the court was invoked solely because the complainants were aliens and the defendant was
a citizen of the United States. This is a narrow view of
the bill. It seeks to quiet the title of complainants to a
tract of land commencing in a grant from Spain, depending for its completeness upon the treaty with Spain and
laws of the United States, and the action under those laws
by the officers of the Land Department of the United
States, and it especially relies on those laws to defeat
defendant's claim of title and to have it removed as a
cloud upon that asserted by complainants. Indeed, there

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

is scarcely a contention of complainants which does not
primarily or ultimately depend upon the laws of the United
States. The motion to dismiss is, therefore, denied.
The first proposition on the merits is the character of
the grant from Spain to Marcos. Complainants contend,
as we have seen, that it was an inchoate or incomplete
grant. The defendant, per contra, insists that it was
confirmed as a complete and perfect title by the force
and effect of the treaty between the United States and
Spain.
It is well here to repeat some of the allegations of the
bill that their scope and effect may be understood. It
alleges the action of the Board of Land Commissioners
reporting the grant to Congress for confirmation and the
several acts of Congress relating thereto, especially the
.act of May 23, 1828, c. 70, 4 Stat. 284. That the grant
was under the laws of Spain, "called a first title or permit
to occupy the land and, after occupancy and proof thereof,
to secure a complete or Royal title." It is, however, further averred that before a perfect title could be obtained
Florida was ceded to the United States, who by the eighth
article of the treaty pledged itself to confirm the title;
and that to secure such confirmation Teresa Rodriguez,
widow of Marcos, applied to the Board of Land Commissioners and the Board reported the grant to Congress
as valid and recommended its confirmation, and that
thereafter Congress, by the act of May 23, 1828, confirmed it to the extent of a league square, to be located
within the limits of the original claim and bounded by
sectional lines and to be "in quantities of not less than
one section."
This apparently left nothing to be done but to segregate the land by a survey, but the bill alleges that the
grantees were required to accept the confirmation as a
final settlement or bring their claim before the judge
of the Superior Court for the district of East Florida.

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This was not done, it is alleged, but it is again alleged
that the title was confirmed to the extent of one league
square, to be located within the bounds of the original
grant.
Notwithstanding they had a grant confirmed to them
of a possible league square, possession was not taken,
it is alleged, because under the act of March 3, 1807, to
have taken possession would have forfeited their right,
and that it was not until February 12, 1894, when their
title was recognized by the Land Department of the
United States, that they were able to assert ownership of
the land. In other words, that until such date the United
States did not relinquish its title and possession of the
lands; that the obligation to confirm grants of lands assumed by the United States by the treaty with Spain
was political in character, and to be discharged as the
United States deemed expedient, and as to the grant to
Marcos the United States retained possession and title
thereto from March 23, 1828, to the issuance of the patent;
that before the approval of the survey of the lands granted
to Maros the legal title was in the United States and
the claim of complainants attached to no particular, lands.
It will be observed, therefore, that the basis of the contention of complainants is that their ancestor, Marcos,
received an inchoate title to an unspecified tract of land
"two miles north of Long Lake on both banks of a creek
emptying into the St. John's river, if this tract of land
could be identified," and because it was not identified,
even by the survey approved by the Land Department,
counsel say that "the title to the lands in controversy,
therefore, whether Marcos held a first cession or a royal
title, is held under the United States and not under Spain."
This, however, we assume, is but another way of stating
that complainants had no interest in the land that they
could assert or that the State of Florida could tax until
the United States issued its patent, and yet the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

States has done no more than recognize the title derived
from Spain and as derived from Spain. It is true there
were at first some doubts and hesitation, but ultimately
the recognition was complete, following and in pursuance
of the confirmation of the Marcos grant by the act of
May 23, 1828, and upon a survey made as early as 1851.
At whose instance the survey was made does not appear.
Section 1 of the act of May 23, 1828, requires the land
confirmed by it "to be located by the claimants, or their
agents, within the limits of such claims or surveys
which location shall be made within the bounds of the
original grant, in quantities of not less than one section,
and to be bounded by sectional lines." Some uncertainty
arises from § 2. It provides that no more than the number
of acres contained in a league square shall be confirmed
within the bounds of any one grant; and no confirmation
shall be effectual until a full and final release of all claim
to the residue contained in the grant. And something
is made of the provision by complainants to refute the
contention of defendant that the act was an absolute confirmation of the grant, but it certainly cannot be contended
that it took all power from the act and left the grant
without any foundation whatever; and we are brought
back to the consideration that a valuable property was
confirmed to complainants which only needed a survey
to identify it, and, when surveyed, was segregated from
the public domain and subject to the taxing jurisdiction
of the State. The survey was made, we have seen, in
1851 under contract with Benjamin A. Putnam, surveyor
general. The act of June 28, 1848, c. 83, 9 Stat. 242,
directed that surveys be made as soon as practicable of
the private claims or grants which had been duly confirmed situated in the State of Florida. It is probable
that the survey was made in obedience to this direction.
The field notes of the survey and the official plat thereof
were approved by the surveyor general June 20, 1851,

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.

236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and the patent recites that the description of the land
therein given is taken "from the approved field notes of
the survey thereof as executed by M. A. Williams, a
deputy surveyor, in the month of January, 1851, under
his contract with Benjamin A. Putnam, surveyor general
of Florida, of the 19th of October, 1850." Indeed, the
patent rests alone on the survey as a description and
segregation of the land, the grant of which was confirmed
by the act of Congress of May 23, 1828, as claim No. 22,
recommended for confirmation December 16, 1825, by
the Board of Commissioners in pursuance of the act of
Congress of March 3, 1823.
All the conditions of a taxable property existed, unless
there be merit in the contention of the complainants that,
the survey of 1851, upon which the patent was predicated,
was of no effect unless and until approved by the Commnissioner of the General Land Office. This contention has
been earnestly pressed upon our attention, but is untenable. It has no support in any statute or regulation that
was in force at the time. The confirmatory act of May 23,
1828, and the act of June 28, 1848, were both silent upon
the subject, and in the absence of some applicable special
provision the general statute relating to public surveys
was controlling. The general statute was then embraced
in the act of May 18, 1796, c. 29, 1 Stat. 464, and its
amendments, and was afterwards incorporated in Chapters 1 and 9 of Title 32 of the Revised Statutes, more
especially §§ 2223 and 2395. It expressly dealt with the
survey of private land claims as well as of public lands,
but contained no requirement that the survey of either
be approved by the Commissioner. This is apparent
upon an inspection of the statute and is shown by two
decisions of this court, one relating to the survey of a
private land claim resting upon a confirmed Mexican
grant and the other to the survey of public lands. Frasher
v. O'Connor, 115 U. S. 102, 115; Tubbs v. Wilhoit, 138 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

134, 142-144. In both cases the court approvingly referred to a decision of the Secretary of the Interior, in
the latter case quoting the Secretary of the Interior as
follows: "There is nothing in the act of 1796, or in the
subsequent acts, which requires the approval of the commissioner of the general land office before said survey becomes final and the plats authoritative. Such a theory
is not only contrary to the letter and spirit of the various
acts providing for the survey of the public lands, but is
contrary to the uniform practice of this department.
There can be no doubt but that under the act of July 4,
1836, reorganizing the general land office, the commissioner
has general supervision over all surveys, and that authority
is exercised whenever error or fraud is alleged on the part
of the surveyor general. But when the survey is correct,
it becomes final and effective when the plat is filed in the
local office by that officer." And it was added: "This
practice was changed by the Land Department in April,
1879, and communicated in its instructions to surveyors
general on the 17th of that month. It was not until
after such instructions that the duplicate plats filed in
the local land offices were required to be previously approved by the commissioner of the general land office."
It follows that the land granted and confirmed was fully
identified by the survey of 1851, the field notes and plat
of which are shown in the record. Of the office of the
patent it is enough to repeat what was said in Beard v.
Federy, 3 Wall. 478, 491: "In the first place, the patent
is a deed of the United States. As a deed, its operation is
that of a quit-claim, or rather of a conveyance of such interest as the United States possessed in the land, and it
takes effect by relation at the time when proceedings were
instituted by the filing of the petition before the Board
of Land Commissioners. In the second place, the patent
is a record of the action of the government upon the title
of the claimant as it existed upon the acquisition of the

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

country." In Boquillas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S.
339, 344, such a patent was described "as a confirmation
in a strict sense." See also § 3 of the act of May 23, 1828.
It will be observed, from the allegations of the bill,
which we have taken the trouble to repeat, that the
foundation of the title of complainants is a grant from
Spain, which was reported as valid by the Board of
Commissioners of the United States, recommended by
such Board for confirmation and confirmed by the Act -of
Congress of May 23, 1828, to the extent of one league,
"to be located- by the claimants"; that subsequently
(1851) a survey was made under a contract of the Surveyor
General of Florida which has been accepted as the segregation of the land and set forth in the patent, and that the
sble basis of the patent is the title so derived and confirmed.
It is true, as we have stated, that the Commissioner of
the Land Office in 1,890 refused to issue a patent, deciding
that the claim had been "surveyed in Tp. 19, S., Rs. 28
and 29 E., for 5,426.82 acres." The grounds of his decision
were these: the claim was before Congress when the
act of February 8, 1827, c. 9, 4 Stat. 202, was passed but
that that act only confirmed those claims which were
under the quantity of 3500 acres and provided "for the
survey of this [Teresa Rodriguez] and other claims,
exceeding in area 3500 acres." Referring to the act of
May 23, 1828, it was said that by its sixth section those
holding claims like that under consideration might secure
a confirmation thereof by prosecuting the same in the
courts. It was further said that "patents in this class of
cases are based on some confirmatory act of Congress or
upon a confirmation of some tribunal, created by Congress
for that purpose." Considering that there was no confirmation by Congress and no decision of any tribunal
created by Congress, the Commissioner declined "to
patent the same for the want of proper evidence upon
which to base such action." A review of the decision and

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

action was invoked and the attention of the Commissioner
wa directed to § 1 of the act of May 23, 1828, and a
confirmation claimed thereunder on the ground "'that its
survey contains a less quantity than a league square."
To this the Commissioner answered that the "grant was
made by Spanish authority and must be understood
to mean a grant of 5,500 acres according to the measurement used by Spain in measuring grants of this character. . * . A 'league square' by this measurement
contains 25,000,000 varas, or 4438.68 English acres.
"The Rodriguez claim, as before stated, has been
surveyed so as to embrace 5,426.82 acres, or 988.14 acres
in excess of a Spanish 'league square.'
"Said act of 1828 provided a method by which claims
not confirmed by its first section might be confirmed by
its second section. This second section required the
claimants, who accepted its provisions, to release the land
in excess of a league square.
"No release of the 988.14 acres herein referred to is
found on file here. .
"The Rodriguez claim not having been confirmed, I
must decline to take up the same with a view to the
issuance of a patent therefor."
An appeal was taken to the Secretary of the Interior
and a decision rendered by him February 12, 1894. The
Secretary stated that the land3 within the limits of the
grant have been surveyed in Twp. 19 S., Rs. 28 and 29 E.,
in Florida, that it was presented to the Board of Land
Commissioners in Florida for 5,500 acres, and contained
according to said survey 5,486.46 acres. The opinion then
recites the history of the grant and the steps which had
been taken for its confirmation, defined a league square to
contain 6,002.50 acres of land and that in accordance
therewith the grant was petitioned and allowed for 5500
acres.
In answer to the view expressed by the Commissioner

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that a Spanish league was meant, it was said that the
conclusion was "at variance with and repugnant to every
fact and circumstance in the history of Spanish grants in
the provinces mentioned [Louisiana and the Floridas] and
in the legislation of Congress in relation thereto." It was
hence held that a "league square" of land as understood
by Congress in the act of May 23, 1828, meant a tract of
land containing 6,002.50 acres and that it followed, therefore, that the Rodriguez claim "contained, as shown by
the survey, less than a league square and is confirmed by
the first section of the act of May 23, 1828, supra." The
decision of the Commissioner was reversed and that officer
was "directed to patent said claim in accordance with the
survey thereof."
Both the Commissioner and the Secretary proceeded
upon the theory that the survey as approved by the
surveyor general in 1851 was effective, if the grant was
confirmed by the first section of the act of 1828.
We have been at pains to cite at length from these
decisions to show how little stood in the way of the complete assurance of complainants' title and that its foundation was the direct confirmation of it by the act of May 23,
1828, and that the grant needed definition only by a
survey, which was made as we have seen, in 1851. This
survey was referred to by counsel for complainants, by the
Commissioners of the Land Office and the Secretary of the
Interior and in the patent, it being made the foundation of
the latter. The case, therefore, becomes in principle like
Wisconsin Railroad Company v. Price County, 133 U. S.
496; Witherspoon v. Duncan, 4 Wall. 210; Northern Pacific
R. R. v. Patterson, 154 U. S. 130; Maish v. Arizona, 164
U. S. 599.
This disposes of the primary proposition in the case,
to-wit, that complainants had a taxable interest in the
granted lands; but assuming the contrary, defendant yet
insists that complainants are not entitled to the relief

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

which they pray. There are other contentions as well,
urged respectively by defendant and complainants, upon
which the courts below did not pass, and we are brought
to consider what disposition should be made of the case
in view of such contentions.
The first of the contentions relates to the title of defendant, which has its foundation in a sale for taxes by the
State of Florida alleged to have been assessed for the years
1845 to 1851, both included, and a deed from the sheriff
to one John Starke (1852), and subsequently an assessment to the latter for taxes and a sale for his delinquency,
title ultimately reaching defendant through mesne conveyances.
The validity of the tax deeds is attacked by complainants, they asserting that the deeds were not preceded
by a valid assessment, nor indeed any assessment, nor
executed in accordance with the laws of the State, nor
(as to some of them) by the proper officer. On these
contentions, as we have said, the courts below expressed no
opinion. Their solution depends upon testimony somewhat voluminous and not very satisfactory, of which there
is no analysis either by the master or by the trial court
or by the Court of Appeals.
The statute of the State, it is agreed, in 1845 to 1851
required the assessors of the counties "to take down and
assess the taxable property in his county" and on or
before the first day of March in each year "to make out
three books in alphabetical order of all the taxable property in his county, one of which books he shall forward to
the comptroller of the treasury, one other of said books
he shall deliver to the sheriff of his said county, and the
other book he shall deliver to the board of county commissioners of his said county."
The act provided that in default of an assessment by
the assessors the sheriffs of the counties should assess and
list the taxes for their respective counties and to proceed

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to have the property therein assessed in such manner as
the assessors were required to perform such duty.
The chief clerk of the comptroller's office, upon being
called as a witness by complainants, testified that he
found duplicate tax rolls of 1845 to 1851, inclusive, except
for the year 1847, which he could not find. To his certain
knowledge the rolls had been in the office for thirty years.
The rolls were certified by the assessor as correct so far as
his knowledge extended. Some of the rolls were not
endorsed as filed. The witness testified that he could add
nothing to the identity of the rolls other than the certificates and that he could not determine whether the roll of
1845 was made in accordance with law or not. And
further that the "book" (roll) was alphabetically arranged to the extent of the first letter in the surnames and
that the land was designated according to its quality as
first, second or third rate and assessed respectively at
three-fourths, one-half and one-quarter of a cent an acre,
but the number of acres was not given nor a description of
the land.
To the question whether there was property assessed to
Teresa Rodriguez he answered, "So far as the question of
whether any lands are entered there opposite the name of
Teresa Rodriguez is concerned, I will say that I am unable
to find that particular name. But I will state further that
it is impossible for me to declare that the property of
Teresa Rodriguez is not assessed, for the reason that
property is entered on this book, following after the word
'same' in a number of instances, and for that reason I
don't know who 'same' was intended to be. In a number
of instances 'same' appears there, and 'ditto.' In making
the ditto they used two ditto marks. Wherever the word
'same' appears a name immediately precedes it, but
where the ditto marks (or dots, the intention of which I do
not know) just precede those, no name appears."
There is other testimony equally confusing as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

roll of 1846. He testified that some portions of it were
rotted out. But how far this affected the roll does not
clearly appear. And as to the roll of 1848 he testified that
it was so mutilated and torn that he was unable to arrive
at any conclusion as to how the lands were assessed therein;
and further that he was unable to give the names that
were entered between the letter P and the letter S, for the
reason that by decay they had become so dim and stained
that he was unable to make them out. The testimony was
clearer as to the roll of 1849 and the name of Teresa
Rodriguez did not appear thereon. The witness testified
that Teresa Rodriguez' name did not appear on the roll of
1850, but he was not able to say whether her property
was attempted to be assessed or not; that he was only
prepared to say that her name was not on the roll. The
certificate to this roll stated" that the foregoing assessment
of State taxes corresponds exactly with that contained in
the book filed by me in the office of the Judge Probate, and
were retained by me, John Simpson, tax assessor and collector." It may be observed in passing that John Simpson, as sheriff and tax collector, levied upon and sold to
John Starke lands "supposed to belong to Teresa Rodriguez." There is some presumption that he proceeded
upon a knowledge of the records and the requirements
of the law. We have seen, the statute required the sheriffs
to make assessments if the assessors failed to make them.
On cross-examination the clerk of the comptroller's office
repeated that he was unable to determine if Teresa Rodriguez' lands had been assessed, that "in the absence of
specific descriptions it would be impossible to determine
a question of that nature."
Testimony was offered on the part of defendant to the
effect that the court house of Orange County, where the
lands are situated, was destroyed by fire in 1868 or 1869
and one only of the books of record was saved, it not being
in the court house at the time of the fire. It. was a mis-

WILSON CYPRESS CO. v. DEL POZO.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

cellaneous record-separate volumes of deeds, mortgages
and miscellaneous matter not then being required. There
was nothing in its index which covered tax sales or tax
assessments.
. It will-be observed, therefore, the testimony as to assessments is somewhat uncertain and confused and that the
courts below made no attempt to analyze or explain it,
their view of the case making it unnecessary.
There are other contentions equally dependent upon
testimony. For instance, defendant asserts that the record
shows that complainants were guilty of laches, more than
twelve years having elapsed from the date of the patent to
the filing of the bill, and that besides the suit is barred by
the statute of limitations. And, further, that one of the
parties in the tax title took possession immediately upon
his purchase of the lands in 1872 and remained in possession until 1882, cultivated a portion of the lands, cut timber therefrom and exercised other acts of ownership. That
his successor in title succeeded also to the possession, holding it until his sale in 1884 to the Florida Colonization
Company, the grantor of the defendant, from which, in
1890, defendant received the title and possession.
It is contended that during all such time complainants
neither paid nor offered to pay taxes, that the other parties
did, the defendant successively from 1890, and that it also
made other expenditures; that complainant asserted no
claim to the lands against it and let twelve years elapse
after patent was issued before bringing this suit.
The courts below rejected these contentions. The trial
court seemed to have arrived at its conclusion by disregarding the possession, whatever it was, which was held
by defendant's predecessors in the title or its possession
prior to the issue of the patent. "It makes no difference,"
the court said, "what the occupation or possession may
have been while the title to the property was in the United
States, and it is not considered that the possession during

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

such time can be resorted to to determine whether or not
the property was, after the issue of the patent, in the
actual possession of the defendant through its agent sufficient to legally bar a right to maintain a bill to remove
cloud from title."
We think the learned court erred in this. The continuity of possession was a factor to be considered,-we do
not say determinative. The evidence of numerous witnesses seems to conflict upon the character and. extent of
such possession, an analysis of which can better be made
in the first instance by the master or the trial court than
by an appellate court.
There are other contentions, besides, which were not
passed upon. The validity of the deed from the sheriff
to Starke is questioned because, it is asserted, it has neither
subscribing witnesses nor evidence of having been acknowledged, and, it is contended, under the laws of
Florida a certified copy of a deed is not admissible in
evidence as proof of the execution or contents of the
original, if the record has not been made upon the evidence
of execution required by the statute, citing Kendrick v.
Latham, 25 Florida, 819. Indeed, the contention is even
that a deed without subscribing witnesses does not convey
the land described for a term of more than two years,
citing Hart v. Bostwick, 14 Florida, 162, 173; Neal v.
Gregory, 19 Florida, 356.
To this defendant opposes the contention that the laws
of Florida did not require subscribing witnesses to a deed
from a sheriff made in execution of a levy upon the property for the collection of taxes, and that, further, even if so,
there was a right to receive a deed from the successor of
the sheriff and that, therefore, an equitable title was conveyed to Starke which was subject to taxation and to sale
upon his delinquency.
We do not pass upon the contention nor intimate an
opinion of the other contentions we have muentioned or

McCORMICK v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
236 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

which are presented by the pleadings. We refer to them
to show that on account of the view of the courts below on
the taxability of the lands they omitted to pass on a number of important issues, some of which require a consideration of testimony, and some-it may be all-an examination of the local laws and decisions, as dependent on such
testimony. And, we repeat, a consideration of such testimony should be made in the first instance by the trial
court. Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Ry. v. Tompkins, 176
U. S. 167; Owensboro v. Owensboro Water Works Co., 191
U. S. 358.
Decree reversed and cause remandedfor further proceedings
in accordance with this opinion.

McCORMICK v. OKLAHOMA CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 170.

Argued March 4, 1915.-Decided March 15, 1915.

Where the bill presents a case of diversity of citizenship only, the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is final: An appeal to this court must

be dismissed.
An allegation in a pleading that by reason of contracts with a municipality plaintiff had a vested right of property in such contracts or
in their performance and that a refusal to perform amounts to deprivation of such property does not give the allegation any other
character than that of one alleging ordinay breach of contract.
A constitutional question cannot be imported into the case in that
manner.
Appeal from 203 Fed. Rep. 921, dismissed.

facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals, are
stated in the opinion.
THE

VOL. ccxxxvi-42

