WRIGHT v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

construction of the local law-in the absence of a controlling local decision-that the statutes of Georgia did not
justify the assessment actually made, I should withhold
this expression of dissent; for that would leave the matter,
as I conceive it should be left, within the control of the
courts and legislature of the State, so far as the mere
imposition of an ad valorem tax upon the property held and
enjoyed by the appellee is concerned.
But I am unable to concur in the view that the tax here
sought to be collected violates the Constitution of the
United States.

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

also dissents.

WRIGHT,
COMPTROLLER
GEORGIA, v. LOUISVILLE
RAILROAD COMPANY.

GENERAL
OF
AND NASHVILLE

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued January 29, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

Wright v. Central Ry. of Georgia, ante, p. 674, followed to effect that
under the statutes of Georgia and the leases involved in this action
executions for ad valorem taxes on railroads, the owners whereof
were exempted by statute from a greater tax than a specified per
cent on the income, could not be enforced against those in possession of the railroads as lessees.
The fact that owners of a railroad, who are exempted by statute from
paying a greater tax than a specified per cent on the income thereof,
lease the entire road to another company does not open the right of
the State to tax such lessees on the fee of the property.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

In this case the exemption of the lessor from taxation on its road which
it has leased applies to betterments and improvements made by the
lessee such as the lessor would have made to meet enlarging business
and so also as to rolling stock substituted for that of the lessor and
which under the lease belongs to the lessor.
Railroad property jointly used with exempted property but not part
of the road originally exempted may be subject to assessment but
not in one assessment covering both the classes of property.
201 Fed. Rep. 1023, modified and affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel H. Sibley, with whom Mr. John C. Hart
was on the brief, for petitioner. (For abstract of argument
see ante, p. 675.)
Mr. Alex C. King, with whom Mr. Jos. B. Currey, Mr.
Bryan Currey, Mr. R. C. Alston and Mr. Philip H. Alston
were on the brief, for respondents and cross petitioners.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill brought by the railroad companies, respondents, to prevent the collection of a tax upon the Georgia
Railroad, operated by them under a lease and assessed to
them as their property. The District Court made a
decree for the plaintiff with certain exceptions, which was
affirmed on appeal and cross appeal by the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the reasons given by the District Court.
199 Fed. Rep. 454. 201 Fed. Rep. 1023.
The main question is similar to that disposed of in
Wright v. Central of Georgia Railway Company, just decided, ante, p. 674.
By its charter granted on December 21, 1833 (Laws of
1833, p. 256) the stock of the Company and its branches is
subject only to a 'tax not exceeding one-half one per
cent. per annum on the net proceeds of their investments.'
§ 15. This language is interpreted and held to constitute

WRIGHT v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a binding contract in Wright v. Georgia Railroad and
Banking Co., 216 U. S. 420. So it is admitted that the
present tax could not be levied on the lessor. By § 12 of
the same charter the Company is authorized to "rent or
farm out all or any part of their exclusive right of transportation or conveyance of persons, on the rail-road or railroads, with the privilege to any individual or individuals,
or other company, and for such term as may be agreed
upon." So the State has convenanted that the Company's property shall be exempt from tax except upon its
income which it is authorized to make in any of three
ways. And as bearing on the different uses of the Company's franchise that were deemed possible in that day, as
we remarked in the other case, we may add that by § 13, if
any persons intrude upon the railroad by any manner of
use thereof they shall forfeit to the Company all the
vehicles and animals that may be so intrusively introduced and used; that by § 14 the Company, if it sees fit
to farm out any part of its exclusive right, may prescribe
the value and size of vehicles to be used or pass on its
road, and the locomotive power; and that by § 22, the
Compaiy, if it prefers, instead of railroads may construct
common roads and use steam carriages thereon.
The plaintiffs are operating the roads in question under
a lease made to one Wadley to whose rights they have
succeeded. Georgia Railroad & Banking Co. v. Maddox,
116 Georgia, 64. This instrument purported, in the
language quoted above from § 12 of the charter, to 'rent
and farm out' the privileges and roads of the lessor for a
term of ninety-nine years from April 1,. 1881. For the
reasons given in the other case we cannot believe that if
the company saw fit to gain 'the net proceeds of their
investments,' (to one-half of one per cent. of which their
tax was limited), by letting the whole road instead of
allowing others to introduce carriages, the statute silently
opened the right to resume as against the lessee all that
VOL. ccxxxv--44

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

had been renounced as against the lessor. If the fee of the
roads is taxable to no one while the liability of the lessor
to the above mentioned on-e-half of one per cent. remains,
an attempt to collect a tax upon the fee from the plaintiffs
is an attempt on the part of the State to tax the leased
property which was completely beyond the reach of its
taxing power except in so far as permitted by the contract, the obligations of which could not be impaired
without a violation of the contract clause of the Constitution of the United States. Thus the particular features of
the case in hand take it without the rule applied in Rochester Railway v. Rochester, 205 U. S.236, and other kindred
cases, from which we have no purpose to depart.
Some subordinate questions remain. Betterments and
improvements of the demised road such as the lessor
naturally would have made to meet the necessities of an
enlarging business stand on the same footing as the
original road and are exempt. Wright v. Georgia R. R. &
Banking Co., 216 U. S.420, 427-432. Gardner v. Georgia
R. R. & Banking Co., 117 Georgia, 522, 532. The rolling
stock substituted for or added to that turned over to the
lessees became the property of the lessor as soon as acquired and also is exempt like that of which it took the
place. The lessee covenants to return the property in as
good condition as it was then in, and the lease provides
that 'the property substituted for and added to that
which is hereby rented and farmed out, shall be the property of' the lessor. 'Shall be' obviously means shall be
when so substituted. It is not confined to such substituted property as may be on hand at the end of the
lease. The lessor is to be kept continuously the owner of
an equipped road. The Railroads not being domiciled in
Georgia are not taxable there for stock and bonds of other
companies merely appearing to be owned by them. Some
necessary and proper improvements were made by the
lessor before the lease and paid for by the proceeds of

WRIGHT v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bonds issued by it. We do not perceive why they should
be put on a different footing from the others. And we are
not prepared to say that terminals, &c., added to the
demised property belonging to the lessor, although brought
with $225,000 of money belonging to the lessees, were not
reasonable betterments and exempt.
The Atlanta terminals require separate treatment.
Besides so much of them as was embraced in the lease,
there seems to be other land belonging to the West Point
Company, and other land again of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. By an agreement between the plaintiffs
and the West Point Company this property is converted
into and used as a joint terminal. The assessment complained of deals with this as a separate entity and item,
and in the decree is excepted from the injunction. It
appears to us that so much of the property as is part of
the exempted line still is exempt. It is used for the purposes of the line, although the relations have become more
complex. The rest may be subject to taxation, but not
in this assessment. The decree will be modified in this
respect, but otherwise is affirmed.
Decree modified and affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR took no part in

the decision.

Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE HUGHES, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY,
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLbS.

