OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

ST. LOUIS SOUTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. SPRING RIVER STONE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SPRINGFIELD COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 158.

Submitted January 27, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915,

Where the shipper has paid full freight charges computed on full weight
of shipment equalling minimum capacity of cars applied for and
permitted for the class of traffic by the filed tariff, he cannot afterwards be compelled to pay an excess on recomputation of charges
based on minimum capacity of larger cars supplied by the carrier
on account of shortage of the size applied for, all parties having
acted in good faith.
Without modifying the rule announced in former decisions in respect
to the obligation on both carrier and shipper to strictly observe the
lawful tariff, held under the special circumstances of this case, failure
to show that the carrier did not complywith the rules in regard to
noting the fact that the smaller cars were supplied for its own convenience, does not require the shipper to pay charges on the marked
capacity of the cars actually used.
169 Mo. App. i09, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. S. H. West, Mr. E. A. Haid, Mr. Roy F. Britton,
Mr. C. C. Collins and Mr. H. C. Barker for plaintiff in
error:
Common carriers by railroad engaged in interstate
commerce are required by the acts of Congress regulating
commerce to collect the rates published in the schedules
.or tariffs on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission. G., C. & S. F. Ry. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; Tex. & Pac.
Ry. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Armour Packing Co. v. United
States, 209 U.. S. 56; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Cotton
Co., 204 U. S. 426; Tex. & Pac. Ry. v. Cisco Oil Co., 204

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v. SPRING RIVER CO. 719
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

U. S. 449; Albers Commission Co. v. Kan. City So. Ry.,
223 U. S. 573; Robinson v. Balt. & Ohio R. R., 222 U. S.
506; Ill. Cent. R. R. v. Henderson Elevator Co., 226 U. S.
441; Poor Grain Co. v. C., B. & Q.R. R., 12 I. C. C. 418;
Blinn v.. Sou. Pac. Co., 18 I. C. C. 430; Gerber v. Wabash
Ry., 63 Mo. App. 145; Sutton v. St. L. & S. F. R. R., 159
Mo. App., 685; Dunne v. St. L. S. W. Ry., 166 Mo. App.
372.
Shippers are presumed to know the provisions of tariffs
duly published and filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and rates named in such tariffs are not the
subject of contract between carriers and shippers. Chi. &
Alt. Ry. v. Kirby, 225 U. S. 155; Adams Exp. Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Harriman,227 U. S.
656; Bost. & Maine Ry. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; Balt. & Ohio
R. R. v. New Albany Co., 94 N. E. Rep. 906; Mires v. Railroad, 134 Mo. App. 379; Drey v. Mo. Pac. Ry., 156 Mo.
App. 178; United States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599.
The shipping ticket prepared by respondent's employ6
and signed by appellant's agent is a "bill-of-lading." A
bill of lading is the carrier's receipt for goods delivered
to it for transportation. It may also contain the contract
of carriage, but this is not necessary to make the instrument a bill of lading. Porter on Bills-of-Lading; Standard
Dictionary; Webster's New Int. Dict.; Century Dict.;
Cope v. Cordova, 2 Rawle (Pa.), 202; The Mayflower, 16
Fed. Cas. 1250; Hutchinson on Carriers.
The provision of the tariffs requiring that the shipper's
order for cars of certain capacity be noted on the bill of
lading to authorize the use of the marked capacity of the,
cars so ordered as the minimum weight on the shipments,
is a "regulation affecting the charges" within the meaning
of ยง6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce; such regulations
are a part of the contract of shipment which automatically
determine the rates to be charged and must be complied
with by both shipper and carrier. Bost. & Maine Ry. v.

720

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; C., R. I. & P. v. Cramer, 232 U. S.
490; M., K. & T. Ry. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 656.
Mr. Thomas Hackney for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
A controversy between the Railway Company and
defendant shipper concerning freight charges was adjusted
by computing them upon the actual weight of the merchandise transported. Afterwards, claiming that the
reckoning should have been upon the minimum capacity
of cars used, the Railway Company sued for the difference
between the two results. Defendant relied upon the
settlement and also full payment; the trial court directed
a verdict for it; this was approved' upon appeal (169
Mo. App. 109); and the cause is here by writ of error.
Plaintiff in error operates a road extending northward
from Fort Worth, Texas, which connects through an intermediate one with the St. Louis and San Francisco Railroad
whose line reaches Carthage, Missouri, where defendant is
engaged in quarrying, selling and shipping stone. Having
been advised by plaintiff in error's commercial agent that
the rate on stone in cars of 50,000 pounds capacity to
Fort Worth was 27Y2 cents per hundred, defendant contracted to deliver five carloads to a purchaser located
there. The localagent of the initial carrier at Carthage
was informed that such cars would be required for the
proposed shipments, and in November and December,
1908, he was requested by telephone to supply them.
Cars of that size were scarce and for its own convenience
the Railroad Company furnished five larger ones60,000 to 88,000 pounds-in which the shipments were
made, the weight in each instance being less than the
marked minimum but appropriate for a 50,000 pound car.

ST. LOUIS S. W. RY. v; SPRING RIVER CO. 721
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

When these arrived at Fort Worth charges of 2712 cents
per hundred, marked capacity, were demanded. They
were paid and immediately thereafter the shipper presented a claim for the amount exacted above a reckoning
based on actual weights. Careful investigation was
promptly made and in February, 1909, the excess was refunded. All parties acted with knowledge of the facts, in
good faith and without purpose to evade the law.
Upon the theory that it was bound to collect freight
charges according to car capacity and that the settlement
was prohibited by regulations of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, two years thereafter plaintiff in error commenced this action to recover what it had repaid.
At the trial the way-bills were not introduced, their
absence was not accounted for, and their contents do not
appear. No carrier's order book was produced. The
shipper received no bill of lading, but the Railway Company offered to introduce alleged copies of five signed by
the Carthage agent. They were rejected because not
properly identified, and no further effort was made to
prove their contents. Five so-calldd shipping tickets were
put in evidence. These requested the initial carrier to
accept the freight, and upon them appears the following
signed by its agent: "This shipment is tendered and received subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's Uniform Bill of Lading. All conditions herein to
the contrary are cancelled."
The applicable duly filed tariff schedule specified freight
rate on stone between Carthage and Fort Worth as 272
cents per hundred when loaded in 50,000 pound cars.
It also provided that "minimum weight will be the marked
capacity of car on stone;" and Item No. 81 was in these
words: "The following rule will be observed in assessing
the freight charges for the minimum weights, according to
capacity of car: 'When the carrier cannot furnish car of
capacity ordered by shipper, and for his own convenience
VOL. ccxxxvi-46

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

provides a car of greater capacity than the one ordered by
the shipper, it may be used on the basis of the minimum
carload weight fixed in tariff applied on size of car ordered
by shipper, but in no case less than the actual weight.
Capacity of car ordered, number of the order, and date of
same to be shown in each instance on the bill of lading and
the carrier's way-bill.' In no case must shipment be billed
at minimum weight of a car of less capacity than in service
on initial line."
The so-called shipping tickets may not be treated as
bills of lading within the requirement; upon their face they
refer to "the Company's Uniform Bill of Lading," and
plaintiff in error undertook to introduce alleged copies of
bills of that character. The facts concerning the way-bills
are undisclosed.. It is not possible, therefore, to ascertain
from the record the contents of any of the bills.
In effect the Railway Company now contends that, as
the evidence fails affirmatively to show the notations
required by'Rule 81, the law imposes an absolute obligation upon the shipper to pay charges estimated upon the
marked capacity of cars utilized notwithstanding the
settlement and good faith of all parties. To this position
we cannot give assent. In the circumstances the initial
carrier was charged with the duty of making these notations; and for the purposes of this suit the shipper might
assume compliance with that duty-he was not required
to establish actual performance. He only sought and
received what was authorized by the tariff on file. Larger
cars than he requested were supplied for the carrier's
special accommodation, and the commands of the applicable rule addressed to the latter imposed the clerical
task of recording information within its peculiar knowledge upon documents for whose preparation it was responsible.
Nothing herein is intended to modify conclusions announced in former opinions in respect of the obligation

TYLER CO. v. LUDLOW-SAYLOR WIRE CO.
236 U. S.

723

Argument for Appellant and Petitioner.

upon both carrier and shipper strictly to observe lawful
tariffs. We determine only the narrow point adequate for
disposition of this cause upon the particular facts revealed
by an unsatisfactory record.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

W. S. TYLER COMPANY v. LUDLOW-SAYLOR
WIRE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM AND PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 441, 622. Argued December 15, 1914; petition for writ of certiorari
submitted December 15, 1914.-Decided March 22, 1915.
Paying an agent, who is also employed by another corporation, to
solicit orders to be executed at its home office and sharing expenses
with another corporation of an office in the District in which a suit
for infringement of patent is brought, held in this case not to amount
to having a regular and established place of business which would
subject a foreign corporation to the jurisdiction of the Federal court

under the act of March 31, 1897, c. 395, 29 Stat. 695.
Where an agent solicits an order in one State and forwards it to his
principal at its home office in another State and the goods are shipped
direct by the principal the sale is consummated in the latter State
and does not constitute an infringement of patent in the former
State.
Where appeal is properly prosecuted and certiorari is also asked from
the same judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, the latter will
be denied.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles C. Linthicum, with whom Mr. J. Negley
Cooke and Mr. D. Anthony Usina were on the brief, for
appellant and petitioner:
There was an established place of business and an in-

