OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

LINN & LANE TIMBER COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
SAME v. SAME.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 46, 150.

Argued January 27, 28, 1915.-Decided March 8, 1915.

This court follows the findings of fact of two courts below in this case
that the corporation was a mere tool of the individual organizing and
controlling it and holding most of its capital stock, that his knowledge as to the fraud was its knowledge, and that the corporation was
a party to an effort to conceal the title until the period of limitation
had expired. McCaskill Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 504.
Where the corporation was organized simply to take title to lands
and its first business was to record the deeds from the owners of
practically all of its stock, and there is doubt as to whether they
were actually delivered until then, the difference in legal personality
between the grantor and the corporation gives the latter no greater
rights than the former.
The fact that some third parties held stock of a corporation as collateral for debts of the principal stockholder held in this case, following the findings of the courts below, not to have altered the
situation.
Where a secret transfer of wrongfully held land is made through the
medium of a corporation for the purpose of busying the United
States with the wrong person until the statute has run, service on
the ran thus put forward is sufficient to avoid the statute.
Where the bills to set aside patents for fraud have been filed and subpcenaA issued and delivered for service before the statute has run,
and reasonable diligence shown in getting service, the running of
the statute is interrupted and the rights of the United States against
the patents are saved.
Where the decision of the Secretary of the Interior that patents should
be issued has been obtained by such fraud as existed in this case, it is

LINN TIMBER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not conclusive; the matter is open for consideration by the courts.
Washington Securities Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 76.
196 Fed. Rep. 593; 203 Fed. Rep. 394, affiried.

THE facts, which involve the right of the United States
to cancel patents for land on the ground of fraud in the
entries, and the application of the statute of limitations
to the actions to cancel, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John Lind, with whom Mr. A. Ueland and Mr.
W. M. Jerome were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel, with whom
Mr. Henry C. Lewis was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joel F. Vaile and Mr. Henry McAllister, Jr., filed a
brief as amici curice.
Mr. Joseph Paxton Blair and Mr. Charles R. Lewers
filed a brief as amici curie.
MR. JUSTICE'HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
These are suits in equity brought by the United States
against the appellants to annul patents issued under the
Timber and Stone Act of June 3, 1878, c. 151, 20 Stat. 89,
on the ground that the entries were fraudulent. Both of
the courts below have found that the entries were fraudulent, that the defendant Smith was either a party to the
fraud or. chargeable with notice of it, and that the Linn &
Lane Timber Company stood in no better position than
Smith. The Circuit Court of Appeals made decrees for
the United States in respect of all the lands concerned.
181 Fed. Rep. 545. 196 Fed. Rep. 593; 116 C. C. A. 267.
203 Fed. Rep. 394; 121 C. C. A. 498. The main question
here concerns the statute of limitations: "suits to vacate

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

and annul patents hereafter issued shall only be brought
within six years after the date of the issuance of such
patents." Act of March 3, 1891, c. 561, ยง 8; 26 Stat. 1095,
1099. See Act of March 3, 1891, c. 559; 26 Stat. 1093.
In No. 46 the twenty-eight patents in controversy were
issued on August 12, 1902. In No. 159, nine of the patents
were issued on August 12, 1902, and eight on July 9, 1902.
The bills were filed and subpoenas were taken out and
delivered to the Marshal on May 25, 1908. On July 20
the Marshal returned non est inventus as to Smith. An
order of notice was applied for on the same day, suggesting
that he was residing in Minneapolis, and was granted on
July 27. Smith was served with process on August 11,
1908, and the corporation was made a party on November 16, and was served on November 18, 1908; so that it
will be seen that the corporation was not brought into the
suit until more than six years had run after the issue of
all the. patents and that Smith was served more than six
years after the issue of eight of the patents involved in
No. 159. On the other hand the bills were filed within
six years.
The patented lands had been conveyed to various
persons in trust for Smith in 1900, shortly after the making of final proof. In May, 1906, Smith, still having the
equitable or legal title, organized a Minnesota corporation, the appellant, with 1000 shares of $100 each, for
the purpose of receiving and holding the title to these and
other lands. He took 998 shares, his wife one, and his attorney one. He then offered to ]pay for the stock with
the land, and subsequently caused to be executed deeds
purporting to convey the lands to the corporation, but he
retained the deeds and did not have them recorded until
September 9, 1908, after the beginning of these suits, and
more than six years after the issue of the patents. It is
found, it would seem reasonably, that one purpose of
Smith was to keep the titles concealed until the statute of

LINN TIMBER CO. v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

limitations should have run. The United States was ignorant of the transaction. But a month from the recording of the conveyances to the corporation Smith and
other defendants pleaded it in abatement, and in November, as we have said, the United States filed amended
bills.
Upon the facts as found by the two courts below we
must take it that the corporation was the mere tool of
Smith, that his knowledge was its knowledge, McCaskill
Co. v. United States, 216 U. S. 504, and that it was party
to an effort to keep the title concealed until it was too
late for the United States to complain. It even is open to
some doubt whether the deeds ever were delivered until
they were recorded, and it seems open to none that, as
was said by the Circuit Court of Appeals, recording the
deeds was the first business the corporation did. This
being so, the difference in legal personality between Smith
and the corporation gives the corporation no greater
rights than Smith. It cannot be privy to a fraud and on
the ground of its success set up a title of which, if that be
material, Smith is to have substantially the whole advantage, and thus defeat. the adjudication against Smith
that otherwise would undo the fraud. There is no question of creditors' rights and the only ground for hesitation is that before the bill was filed some of the shares
had been pledged by Smith, and fifteen shares had been
transferred to one Johnson and also pledged for Smith's
debt. But we are of opinion with the findings that the
position was not changed as between the United States,
Smith and the corporation in such a way as to give the
last a better standing in this case. Those who took the
stock as security did not deal with the corporation as outsiders, but became a part of it while it still was under the
manifest domination of Smith and charged with participation in Smith's fraud. The corporation cannot derive
any new right from them. Wilson Coal Co. V. United
VOL. ccxxxvi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

'States, 110 C. C. A. 343; 188 Fed. Rep. 545. Whether
they have a remedy is not a question here.
We now are not considering the effect of a fraudulent
concealment of a cause of action. We are considering
whether a man who knows that his title is bad and will be
attacked can call into being a corporation which he owns,
in order to save the property, make a deed to it, put the
deed into his pocket, leave it unrecorded and, without
the need of trusting even an accomplice, can keep it with
perfect security until the statute has run, and then set up
that his creature owns the land. We are deciding that if
a secret transfer of wrongfully held land is made in this
way for the purpose of busying the United States with the
wrong person until the title shall be made good by time,
service on the man thus put forward is sufficient to avoid
the statute and the trick must fail.
The bills were filed and subpoenas were taken out and
delivered to the Marshal for service before the statute
had run, reasonable diligence was shown in getting service
and therefore the rights of the United States against all
the patents were saved. For when so followed up the rule
is pretty well established that the statute is interrupted by
the filing of the bill. Coppin v. Gray, 1 Y. & C., C. C. 205,
207. Purcellv. Blennerhassett,3 Jo. & Lat. 24, 45. Forster
v. Thompson, 4 Dr. & Warr. 303, 318. Hele v. Lord Bexley,
20 Beav. 127. Hayden v. Bucklin, 9 Paige (N. Y.), 512.
Aston v. Galloway, 38 No. Car. 126. Dilworth v. Mayfield,
36 Mississippi, 40, 52. United States v. American Lumber
Co., 85 Fed. Rep. 827, 830. United States v. Miller, 164
Fed. Rep. 444.
There was an attempt made in argument to reopen the
questions of fact upon which the two courts below agreed,
but we see no reason to depart from the common rule and
therefore we do not advert to any of those matters. It
also was argued that the decision of the Secretary of the
Interior that the patents should be issued is conclusive.

RAMAPO WATER CO. v. NEW YORK.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

But the decision was obtained by such frauds that the
matter was open for reconsideration by the courts. Washington Securities Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 76.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of these cases.

RAMAPO WATER COMPANY v. CITY OF NEW
YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 715.

Argued February 24, 1915.-Decided March 8, 1915.

Where the constitution of the State reserves the right so to do, the
charter of a corporation may be repealed without impairing the
obligations of a contract. Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591..
In the absence of a specific decision of the highest court of the State

to that effect, this court will not construe a statute authorizing a
water supply corporation to exercise eminent domain under the
provisions of the Railroad Act as giving to that corporation a vested
right to exclude the rest of the world from whatever watersheds it

chooses for an unlimited period and one that cannot be impaired by
subsequent legislation simply by filing a map.
The Railroad Act of New York requires a corporation intending to
exercise eminent domain not only to file maps of the property to be
taken but also to file written notice to the occupants thereof and
the mere filing of the map does not create rights against the State.
The legislation of the State of New York of 1905 empowering the

City of New York to acquire lands for its new water supply is-not
unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the contract of the
charter rights of the plaintiff in error in this case or depriving it
of its property without due process of law under the act authorizing

