WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

165

Syllabus.

D. R. WILDER MANUFACTURING COMPANY v.
CORN PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.

No. 71.

Argued November 9, 1914.-Decided February 23, 1915.

Where the pleading of the plaintiff in error demurred to justified the
inference that the transaction alleged to be in violation of the AntiTrust Act was interstate, the court may assume that such was the
case, and, if the decision turns on the construction of the act, a Federal question is involved.
The general rule is that one who has dealt with a corporation as an
existing concern having capacity to sell, cannot assert, or escape
liability, on the ground that such concern has no legal existence because it is an unlawful combination in violation of the Anti-Trust
Act. Such a defense is a mere collateral attack on the organization
of the corporation which cannot lawfully be made. Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
Courts may not refuse to enforce an otherwise legal contract because
it might afford some indirect benefit to a wrongdoer.
The contract in this case held not to be intrinsically illegal because the
seller agreed to give a portion of its profits to the purchaser of goods
provided such purchaser dealt exclusively with the seller for a specified period and also bought the goods exclusively for purchaser's own
use; and also held that such contract was not illegal under the AntiTrust Act. Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227,
distinguished.
The Anti-Trust Act is founded on broad conceptions of public policy
and its prohibitions were enacted not only to prevent injury to the
individual but harm to the general public, and its prohibitions and
the remedies it provides are co-extensive with such conceptions.
Where a statute creates a new offense and denounces the penalty, or
gives a new right and declares the remedy, the punishment or remedy
given can be only that which the statute prescribes.
The power given by the Anti-Trust Act to the Attorney General to
dissolve a corporation or combination as violative of that act is in.consistent with the right of an individual to assert as a defense to a

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

contract on which-he is otherwise legally liable that the other party
has no legal existence in contemplation of that act.
In Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227, the contract
involved was not held illegal because a party thereto was an illegal
combination under the Anti-Trust Act, but upon elements of illegality inhering in the contract itself. In this case, held that a party
cannot assert as a defense to a suit for money otherwise due under a
contract, not inherently illegal, the fact that the party otherwise
admittedly entitled to recover is an illegal combination under the
Anti-Trust Act.
11 Ga. App. 588, affirmed.

which involve the construction of the Federal Anti-Trust Act, and the effect of a profit sharing contract of a corporation and those dealing with it exclusively
and the right of the corporation to recover for goods sold,
are stated in the opinion.
THE facts,

Mr. Marion Smith for plaintiff in error:
The answer shows defendant in error to be a combination in restraint of interstate trade in violation of the
Federal statute; the combination merged into one corporation various firms and corporations which previously
had been competitors, for the purpose, and with the effect, of restraining and monopolizing such interstate trade.
The creation of a monopoly is sufficient to make the restraint unreasonable. Am. Tobacco Co. v. United States,
221 U. S. 106; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1.
The corporate organization of the defendant in error
cannot be used as a cloak to cover the fact that it constitutes an illegal combination. Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U., S. 197; Am. Tobacco Co. v. United
States, and Standard Oil Co. v. United States, supra.
A recovery cannot be had upon an account for goods
sold and delivered by such illegal combination when the
goods were sold with direct reference to and in execution
of agreements which had for their object and which had
directly as their effect the accomplishment of the illegal

WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U: S.

167

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ends for which the combination was organized. Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227.
It is not necessary to show that the contracts under
which the goods were sold are expressly violative of the
Federal statute. The illegal intent with which the contracts were made is sufficient to make illegal contracts
which appear on their face as no more than ordinary acts
of competition. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S. 373;
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S. 375; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S. 274.
A contract of purchase by an illegal combination which
together with other similar contracts tends to create a
monopoly is void and unenforceable even though the other
party to the contract is ignorant of its purpose in this
respect. Brent v. Gay, 149 Kentucky, 615.
A contract, which though apparently harmless in itself,
is in reality a part of a general scheme to violate statutes
against 'the restraint of trade, will be held to be illegal.
Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, supra; Cravens v.
Carter, 92 Fed. Rep. 479; Pacific Factor Co. v. Adler, 90
California, 110; Fink v. Schneider Granite Co., 187 Missouri, 244; Detroit Salt Co. v. National Salt Co., 134 Michigan, 120.
A contract is illegal where, though harmless on its face,
it is one of many similar contracts which collectively
have the direct effect of aiding an illegal purpose of restraining interstate trade. United Shoe Machinery Co. v.
LaChapelle, 212 Massachusetts, 467.
The scheme must be treated as an entirety. Addyston
Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211; Swift v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375; Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38;
Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
Illegality may consist in the purpose to accomplish an
illegal result though the methods used are not inherently
unlawful. Hanauer v. Doane, 12 Wall. 342; Kohn v.
Melcher, 43 Fed. Rep. 641; Mogul Steamship Co. v. Mc-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Counsel for Defendant in Error.

236 U. S.

Gregor, L. R. 61; Q. B. Div. 285; [1892] A. C. 25; Clark
on Contracts, 478 et seq.
Whenever the illegality appears, whether the evidence
comes from one side or the other, the disclosure is fatal
to the case. No consent of the defendant can neutralize
its effect. Hall v. Coppell, 7 Wall. 542; Armstrong v.
Toler, 11 Wheat. 258; Embrey v. Jemison, 131 U. S. 336.
One of. the parties cannot maintain an action on the
valid part of the contract discarding or omitting to prove
the portion that isillegal. McMullin v. Hoffman, 174
U. S. 639.
Under the Continental Wall Paper Co. Case when the
sales are made under and with reference to an illegal agreement, and the plaintiff sues on the sales, the defendant
may thereupon plead the illegal agreement of which the
sales are a part. See also: Oscanyan v. Winchester Arms
Co., 103 U. S.261.
The cases relied upon by the defendant in error can be
distinguished from the case at bar. Connolly v. Union
Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, which is especially stressed
by the defendant in error, decided only that an illegal
combination was not by reason alone of its illegal character prevented from collecting for goods sold.
If any of the cases urged by the defendant in error go
to the extent of holding that this is not sufficient to make
the agreement illegal, they are in conflict with the decisions of this court. Nash v. United States, 229 U. S.373;
Swift v. United States, 196 U. S.375; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208
U. S.274. Bank v. Glass, 169 Mo. App. 374, is not in
point, nor is Bessire v. Corn Products Co., 47 Ind. App. 313.
There is nothing to distinguish this case from the Continental Wall Paper Co. Case, and the decision then rendered is controlling.
Mr. James W. Austin and Mr. Preston Davie, with
whom Mr. Morgan J. O'Brien, Mr. Albert B. Boardman

WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

169

Opinion of the Court.

and Mr. Young B. Smith were on the brief, for defendant
inerror.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
We refer to the parties, the one as the Manufacturing,
and the other as the Refining Company. Sued by the
Refining Company in April, 1909, to recover the amount
of the price of two lots of glucose or corn syrup which it
had bought in January, 1909, and which it had consumed
and not paid for, the Manufacturing Company asserted
its non-liability on the following grounds which we summarize:
(a) Because the Refining Company had no legal existence as it was a combination composed of all the manufacturers of glucose- or corn syrup in the United States,
illegally organized with the object of monopolizing all
dealings in such products in violation1 of the Anti-Trust
Act of Congress. That having illegally brought into one
organization all the manufacturers of glucose or corn
syrup, the corporation had unreasonably advanced the
price of the products of its manufacture to the injury of
the public. (b) That this end being accomplished, the
corporation sought to perpetuate its monopoly by rendering it difficult or impossible for competitors to go into
the business of producing glucose or corn syrup by devising a so-called profit-sharing scheme, by which it was
proposed to give to all those who purchased from the
combination a stipulated percentage upon the amount of
the purchases made in one year to be paid at the end of the
following year provided that during such time they dealt
with no one else but the combination. While the sum of
the percentage thus offered, it was alleged, varied from
year to year, nevertheless it was charged that in substance
the contract or offer remained the same. The tender to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the. Court.

236 U. S.

the Manufacturing Company of a right to participate in
the scheme, it was alleged, was first made in 1907 relative
to the business done in 1906 in the form of a letter which
is in the margin I and this offer or. asserted contract was
continued from year to year. It was further alleged that
the scheme proved successful in accomplishing its wrongful
purpose since, although subsequently independent concerns engaged in the business of manufacturing glucose
or corn syrup and offered to sell their products at prices
less than those charged by the combination, such concerns
were virtually driven out of business because those who
desired to purchase the products were deterred from buying from them for fear of losing the percentage which they
would receive from the combination if all their purchases
'"26 Broadway, New York, March 9, 1907.
"The D. R. Wilder Mfg. Co., Atlanta, Ga.
"Gentlemen: This company recognizing the fact that its own prosperity, in a great measure, is interwoven with the good will and cooperation of its patrons, has decided to adopt a liberal plan of profitsharing with you, in case you shall in the future continue to give us
your exclusive patronage.
"This copany inaugurates such a policy of profit-sharing by
announcing that it will set aside out of its profits from the manufacture
and sale of glucose and grape sugar for the last six months of 1906, an
amount equal to ten cents per hundred pounds on all shipments of'
glucose and grape sugar (Warner's Anhydre and Bread Sugar excepted)
which shall have been made to you by this company from July 1st to
December 31, 1906.
"This amount will be paid to you or your successors on December 30,
1907, on condition that for the remainder of the year 1906 and the entire year 1907, you or your successors shall have purchased exclusively
from this company or its successors all the glucose and grape sugar
required for use in your establishment.
"With the assurance of steadfast co6peration of its customers, given
in reciprocation for the benefits conferred upon them, this company
confidently anticipates a continuance of such profit-sharing distribution annually to the full extent that its earnings may warrant.
"Yours very truly,
"CORN

PRODUCTS REFINING COMPANY."

WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

171

Opinion of the Court.

continued to be made from it alone, and moreover because of the dread felt by purchasers that the independents
would not be able to resist the overweening and controlling
power of the combination. It was moreover alleged that
all purchases made by the manufacturing company "contained the following clause in the contract of purchase:
'The goods herein sold are for your own consumption and
not for resale.'"
Charging that the condition which made the payment
of the proposed profit-sharing percentage depend, upon
dealing alone with the combination was void and should
be disregarded, the answer asked not only that the prayer
for judgment for the purchase price be rejected but that
treating the failure of the Manufacturing Company to
comply with the condition on which the offer of profit
sharing was made as immaterial, there should be a judgment for that company for the percentage of profits on
the business for the year 1908.
On motion the answer was stricken out as stating no
defense. There was a judgment in the absence of further
pleading against the Manufacturing Company for the
price of the goods, as sued for, and rejecting its claim for
the percentage of profits. This judgment was affirmed
by the court below (11 Ga. App. 588) and because of an
assumed failure to give effect to the Anti-Trust Act of
Congress this writ of error was prosecuted.
As the context of the answer clearly justified the inference that the. sale of the glucose was an interstate
transaction, the court below was right in assuming that
to be the case and therefore we put out of view as devoid
of merit the contrary suggestion made by the Refining
Company.
Having dealt with the Refining Company as an existing
concern possessing the capacity to 'sell, speaking generally
the assertion that it had no legal existence because it was
an unlawful combination in violation of the Anti-Trust

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Act was irrelevant to the question of the liability of the
Manufacturing Company to pay for the goods since such
defense was a mere collateral attack on the organization
of the corporation which could not be lawfully made.' Besides, considered from the point of view of the alleged
illegality of the corporation, the attack on its existence was
absolutely immaterial because the right to enforce the
sale did not involve the question of combination, since
conceding the illegal existence of the corporation making
the sale, the obligation to pay the price was indubitable,
and the duty to enforce it not disputable. This is true
because the sale and the obligations which arose from it
depended upon a distinct contract with reciprocal considerations moving between the parties,-the receipt of
the goods on the one hand and the payment of the price
on the other. And this is but a form of stating the elementary proposition that courts may not refuse to enforce
an otherwise legal contract because of some indirect benefit to a wrongdoer which would be afforded from doing
so or some remote aid to the accomplishment of a wrong
which might possibly result-doctrines of such universal
acceptance that no citation of authority is needed to
demonstrate their existence, especially in view of the express ruling in Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184
U. S. 5401 applying them to the identical general question
here involved.
The case therefore reduces itself to the question whether
the contract of sale was inherently illegal so as to bring
it within the also elementary rule that courts will not
exert their powers to enforce illegal contracts or to compel
wrong-doing. The only suggestion as to the intrinsic
illegality of the sale results from the averments of the
I Finch v. Ullman, 105 Missouri, 255; Taylor v. Portsmouth, &c. St.
Ry., 91 Maine, 193; Smith v. Mayfield, 163 Illinois, 447; Detroit City
Ry. v. Mills, 85 Michigan, 634; Mackall v. Chesapeake &c. Canal Co.,
94 U. S. 308; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.

WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

173

Opinion of the Court.

answer as to the offer of a percentage of profits upon the
condition of dealing exclusively with the Refining Company for the following year and the clause to the effect that
the goods were bought by the Manufacturing Company
for its own use and not for resale. But we can see no
ground whatever for holding that the contract of sale
was illegal because of these conditions. In fact it is not
so contended in argument since substantially the proposition which is relied upon is that although such stipulations
were intrinsically legal, they become illegal as the result
of the duty to consider them from the point of view that
one of the parties was an illegal combination interested in
inserting such conditions as an efficient means of sustaining its continued wrong-doing and therefore giving power
to accomplish the baneful and prohibited results of its
illegal organization,-a duty which, it is urged, results
from reason, is commanded by the Anti-Trust Act and
the obligation to enforce its provisions and is required
because of a previous decision of this court enforcing that
act (Continental Wall Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227)
unless that decision is to be now qualified or overruled.
In the first place, the contention cannot be sustained
consistently with reason. It overthrows the general law.
It admits the want of power to assail the existence of a
corporate combination as a means of avoiding the duty
to pay for goods bought from it and concedes at the same
time the legality of the condition in the sale and yet proposes by bringing the two together to produce a new
and strange result unsupported in any degree by the
elements which are brought together to produce it and
conflicting with both.
In the second place, the proposition is repugnant to the
Anti-Trust Act. Beyond question re~xpressing what was
ancient or existing and embodying that which it was
deemed wise to newly enact, the Anti-Trust Act was
intended in the most comprehensive way to provide

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

against combinations or conspiracies in restraint of trade
or commerce, the monopolization of trade or commerce or. attempts to monopolize the same. Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.. S. 1; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U. S. 106. In other Words,
founded upon broad conceptions of public policy, the prohibitions of the statute were enacted to prevent not the
mere injury to an individual which would arise from
the doing of the prohibited acts, but the harm to the
general public which would be occasioned by the evils
which it was contemplated would be prevented, and hence
not only the prohibitions of the statute but the remedies
which it provided were co-extensive with such conceptions. Thus the statute expressly cast upon the AttorneyGeneral of the United States the responsibility of enforcing
its provisions, making it the duty of the district attorneys
of the United States in their respective districts under his
authority and direction to act concerning any violations
of the law. And in addition, evidently contemplating
that the official unity of initiative which was thus created
to give effect to the statute required a like unity of judicial
authority, the statute in express terms vested the Circuit
Court of the United States with "jurisdiction to prevent
and restrain violations of this act," and besides expressly
conferred the amplest discretion in suSh courts to join
such parties as might be, deemed necessary and to exert
such remedies as would fully accomplish the purposes
intended. Act of July 2, 1890, c 647, 26 Stat. 209.
It is true that there are no words of express exclusion of
the right of individuals to act in the enforcement of the
statute or of courts generally to entertain complaints on
that subject. But it is evident that such exclusion must
be implied for a two-f6ld reason: First, because of the
familiar doctrine that "where a statute creates a new
offense and denounces the penalty, or gives a new right
and declares the remedy, the punishment or the remedy

WILDER MFG, CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

175

Opinion of the Court.

can be only that which the statute prescribes." Farmers'
& Mechanics' National Bank v. Dearing, 91 U. S. 29, 35;
Barnet v. National Bank, 98 U. S. 555; Oates v. National
Bank, 100 U. S. 239; Stephens v. Monongahela Bank, 111
U. S. 197;-Tenn. Coal Co. v. George, 233 U. 8. 354, 359;
Second, because of the destruction of the powers conferred
by the statute and the frustration of the remedies which
it creates which would obviously result from admitting
the right of an individual as a means of defense to a suit
broUght against him on his individual and otherwise
inherently legal contract to assert that the corporation
or combination suing, had no legal existence in contemplation of the Anti-Trust Act. This is apparent since the
power given by the statute to the Attorney-General is
inconsistent with the existence of the right 'of an individual to independently act since the, purpose of. the statute
was where a combination or organization was found .to
be illegally existing to put an end to such illegal existence
for all purposes and thus protect the whole public,-an
object incompatible with the thought that such a corporation should be treated as legally existing for the
purpose of parting with its property by means of a contract of sale and yet be held to be civilly dead for the purpose of recovering the price of such sale and then by a
failure to provide against its future exertion of power be
recognized as virtually resurrected and in possession of authority to violate the law. And in a two-fold sense these
considerations so clearly demonstrate the conflict between
the statute and the right now asserted under it as to render
it unnecessary to pursue that subject further. In the first
place because they show in addition how completely the
right claimed would defeat the jurisdiction conferred by
the statute on the courts of the United States,-a jurisdiction evidently given, as we have seen, for the purpose
of making the relief to be afforded by a finding of illegal
existence as broad as would be the necessities resulting

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

from such finding. In the second place because the possibility of the wrong to be brought about by allowing the
property to be obtained under a contract of sale without
enforcing the duty to pay for it, not upon the ground of
the illegality of the contract of sale but of the illegal organization of the seller, additionally points to the causes
which may have operated to confine the right to question
the legal existence of a corporation or combination to
public authority sanctioned by the sense of public responsibility and not to leave it to individual action
prompted it may be by purely selfish motives.
As from these considerations it results not only that
there is no support afforded to the proposition that the
Anti-Trust Act authorizes the direct or indirect suggestion
of the illegal existence of a corporation as a means of defense to a suit brought by such corporation on an otherwise inherently legal and enforceable contract, but on the
contrary that the provisions of the act add cogency to the
principles of general law on the subject and therefore
make more imperative the-duty not directly or indirectly
to permit such a defense to a suit to enforce such a contract, we put that subject out of view and come to the
only remaining inquiry, the alleged effect of the previous
ruling in the Continental Wall Paper Case, supra.
It is to be observed in considering that contention that
the general rule of law which we have stated is not apparently questioned in the argument and the controlling
influence of the ruling in the Connolly Case, supra, if here
applicable is not denied, but the contention is that the
general law is not applicable and the Connolly Case is
inapposite because of an exception which was engrafted
upon the general law by the ruling in the Continental
Wall Paper Case under which it is said this case comes.
While it clearly appears that'this is the contention, it is
difficult to precisely fix the ground upon which it is rested.
But as the rule of general law which under ordinary cir-

WILDER MFG. CO. v. CORN PRODUCTS CO.
236 U. S.

171

Opinion of the Court.

cumstinces does not permit the existence of a corporation
to be indirectly attacked is not assailed, and as it is not
asserted that irrespective of the illegal organization of
the corporation, the contract of sale was inherently unlawful, it follows that the proposition is the one which we
have already in another aspect disposed of, that is, that
the sale and its conditions although inherently legal become illegal by considering the illegal corporation and
the aid to be afforded to its wrongful purposes by the conditions which formed a part of the sale. But in substance
this only assumes that it was held in the Continental Wall
Paper Case that that which was inherently legal can be
rendered illegal by considering in connection with it
something which there is no right to consider at all. But
it is apparent on the face of the opinion in the Continental
Wall Paper Case that it affords no ground for the extreme
and contradictory conclusion thus deduced from it since
the ruling in that case was based not upon any supposed
right to import into a legal and valid contract elements
of wrong which there was no right to consider, but was
rested exclusively upon 'elements of illegality inhering
in the particular contract of sale in that case which elements of illegality may be thus summarized: (a) the
relations of the contracting parties to the goods sold, (b)
the want of real ownership in the seller, (c) the peculiar
obligations which were imposed upon the buyer, and (d)
the fact that to allow the nominal seller to enforce the
payment of the price would have been in and of itself
directly to sanction and give effect to a violation of the
Anti-Trust Act inhering in the sale. It is not necessary
to analyze the facts and issues in the case for the purpose
of pointing out how completely they are covered by the
statement just made because the opinion of the court
and the reasons stated by the members of the court who
dissented without more make that fact perfectly clear.
Indeed not only does this statement make clear the fact
VOL. ccxxxvi-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

that there is no conflict between the Connolly Case and
the Continental Wall Paper Case, but it also establishes
that both cases, the first directly, and the other by a
negative pregnant, demonstrate the want of merit in
the contentions here insisted upon.
It only remains to say that we think it requires nothing
but statement to demonstrate that in view of the facts
which we have recited and the legal principles which we
have applied to them, no error was committed by the
court below in refusing to give to the defendant a judgment for its alleged share of the profits for the year 1908
when it was expressly admitted that the conditions upon
which the offer of a right to a participation in the profits
was rested, or the contract (if there was a contract to
that effect) was based, had not been complied with.
Affirmed.

HEYMAN v. HAYS, COUNTY CLERK OF HAMILTON COUNTY, TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 121.

Argued January 14, 1915.-Decided February 23, 1915.

The rulings of this court concerning the operation of the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution rest upon the broad principle of

the freedom of commerce between the States, and of the equal right
of a citizen of one State to freely contract either to receive merchandise from, or to send merchandise into, another State. Am. Express Co. v. Iowa, 196 U. S. 133.

The right to engage in interstate commerce is not the gift of a State; it
cannot be regulated or restrained by a State, nor can a State exclude

from its limits a corporation engaged in such commerce. West v.
Kansas NaturalGas Co., 221 U. S. 229.

The selling of liquor under a strictly mail-order business and the delivcry within the State to a carrier for through shipment to another

State to fill such orders in interstate commerce, is beyond the control

of the State.

