OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Syllabus.

236 U. S.

that the contention that error was committed in not taking
the case from the jury is found, after an examination of
the record, to be without merit.
In the argument a contention was urged based upon
some expression made use of by the trial-court in refusing
the request to take the case from-the jury. Although we
have considered the proposition and find it totally devoid
of merit, we do not stop to further state the contention or
the reasons which control us concerning it as ve think it
is manifestly an afterthought, as it was virtually not
raised in the trial court and was not included in the assignments of error made for the purpose of review by the court
below nor in those made in this court on the suing out of
the writ of error.
Affirmed.

WRIGHT,
COMPTROLLER
GENERAL
OF
GEORGIA, v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RAILWAY
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT .COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 161. Argued January 28, 29, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.
This court will not presume that a state legislature in granting a
charter containing exemptions would either practice deceit or make
a futile grant.
A lessee of railroads which wre built under special charters containing
irrepealable contracts by which the property was not subject to be
taxed higher than a specified per cent on the annual income derived
therefrom is not subject to an ad valorem tax as the owner of such
property.
The statutes of Georgia in regard to the taxation of railroads involved
in this action are construed as making the fee exempt from other taxation than that provided for in favor of the lessee as well as of the
lessor.

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

675

Argument for Appellant.

While technical distinctions should be avoided as far as may be in
matters of taxation in the interest of substantial justice, they should
not be disregarded in order to enable a State to escape from a binding bargain; and so held in regard to distinctions between lessors and
lessees where the protection of the latter is necessary in order to
make good the promise of the State made to the former.
The courts cannot take the place of the taxing power nor can taxes
based on ownership of the property be enforced against a lessee of
the property under the statutes of Georgia and the leases involved
in this case.
206 Fed. Rep. 107, affirmed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. John C. Hartand Mr. Samuel H. Sibley for appellant.
The contracts for exemptions are personal, are not
vendible nor transferable, and are valid only so long as
those-companies as such conducted the business of common carriers. The state charter contracts limiting the
tax rate is personal to these corporations to whom granted
and did not run with the property, not having been transferred to the Central of Georgia Railway with the consent
of the State at a time when the State could consent, and
cannot be invoked by lessee, for its own benefit.
The person with whom the contract is made by the
State may continue to enjoy benefits unmolested as long
-as he chooses, but there his rights end, and he cannot by
any form of conveyance transmit the contract or its benefits to a successor. Rochester Ry. v. Rochester, 205 U. S.
247; Morgan v. Louisiana,93 U. S. 2,17; Wilson v. Gaines,
103 U. S. 417; Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. Palmes, 109 U. S.
244; Pickard v. Tennessee &c., 130 U.S. 637; St. Louis &c.
R. R. v. Gill, 150 U. S. 649; Nor. & West. RailroadCo. v.
Pendleton, 156 U. S. 667.
The Constitution of the State forbids exemption. Article 7, § 2, par. 1; Rochester Ry. v. Rochester, 205 U. S.247;
Trask v. McGuire, 18 Wall. 391; Shields v. Ohio, 95 U. S.
319; Mqine Central R. R. v. Maine, 96 U. S. 49; Railroad

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S.359; YazooR. R. v. Adams, 180
U. S. 1; Grand Rapids &c. R. R. v. Osborn, 193 U. S. 17;
San Antonio Traction Co. v. Altgelt, 200 U. S. 304.
Whether the exemption claimed is total or a commuted
tax rate it stands upon the same principle. Great Northern Ry. v. Minnesota, 216 U. S. 207.
A lessee in perpetuity is the owner of property for the
purpose of taxation. Civ. Code Georgia,, 1911, § 1018;
Penick v. Atkinson, 139 Georgia, 649; Wells v. Mayor, 87
Georgia, 397; Perry v. Norfolk, 220 U. S.479; Cincinnati
College v. Yeatman, 30 Oh. St. 276; Street v. Columbus, 75
Mississippi, 822; Washington Market Co. v. Dist. of Col.,
4 Mackay, 416.
The lessee, now the appellee, contracted to pay the
taxes in question.
Neglect to pay taxes in the past is no reason for future
exemption. Wells v. Savannah, 181 .U. S.547.
Neither the action nor the inaction of the Tax Department could raise an exemption. Art. 4, § 1, par. 1.
Mr. A. R. Lawton and Mr. T. M. Cunningham, Jr.,
for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity brought by the Railway Company, the appellee, to prevent the collection of certain
taxes, which, it is alleged, would be contrary to Article I,
§ 10, and to the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. The case was heard on bill,
demurrer and answer and certain agreed facts, and the
District Court issued an injunction as prayed. 206 Fed.
Rep. 107. The facts stripped of details not material to the
question before us, are as follows: In 1912 the defendant
issued executions against the plaintiff to collect ad valorem
taxes on the "real estate, road bed, and franchise value,

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

after crediting
one-half of one per cent. of the
net income,
on that portion of its property
known in its system" respectively as the'Augusta and
Savannah Railroad and the Southwestern Railroad.
These roads were built under special charters admitted to
constitute irrepealable contracts, by which the property
was not subject to be taxed higher than one-half of one
per cent. upon the annual income-so that it may be assumed that the present taxes could not be sustained if the
*roads still were in the separate hands of the corporations
that built them.
But in 1862, the Augusta and Savannah Railroad and
in 1869 the Southwestern Railroad made leases of their
respective roads and franchises to the Central Railroad
and Banking Company of Georgia during the continuance
of the charters of the lessors. In 1892 the property of the
lessee went into the hands of a receiver, and the lessors,
being allowed an election by the court, elected to allow the
property to remain in his hands, which it did until a sale
of the same and purchase, under a reorganization plan,
by the appellee, the Central of Georgia Railway Company.
In 1895 by agreement between the latter and the two
lessors the leases were modified so as to run for one hundred and one years from November 1 of that year, renewable in like periods upon the same terms forever. Notwithstanding these leases the State has been content down
to this time to collect from the lessors.the tax provided
for in their charter, but now, conceiving the State and its
officers to have been mistaken, the Comptroller seeks to
tax the whole property to the lessee.
The executions are for taxes on property of the plaintiff
and must show jurisdiction to issue them. Harrisv. Smith,
133 Georgia, 373, 374; Equitable Building & Loan Ass'n
v. State, 115 Georgia, 746. Here the jurisdiction depends
upon these roads being in effect the plaintiff's property as
matter of law. If they are not, the attempt is an attempt
.

678 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

to tax the plaintiff upon property that it does not own.
To decide whether these taxes are such an unjustified
exaction We must turn to the legislation of the State,
bearing in mind that the practical construction given to
the law for nearly half a century is strong evidence that
the plaintiff's contention is right. Wright v. Georgia R. R.
& Banking Co., 216 U. S. 420, 426; Temple Baptist Church
v. Georgia Terminal Co., 128 Georgia, 669, 680.
The charter of the Augusta and Waynesboro' Rail Road,
afterwards the Augusta and Savannah, approved December 31, 1838, alongside of the taxing provision in § 13 to
which we have referred, provided as follows in § 16: "That
said Company shall at all times have the exclusive use of
the said Rail Road, for the transportation or conveyance
of merchandise, goods, wares, and freight Of every kind,
and passengers, over the said Rail Road, so long as they
see fit to use this exclusive privilege, and said company
shall be authorized to charge the same rates for freight or
passage as are allowed in the charter of the Georgia Raii
Road and Banking Company: Provided always, that said
company may, when they see fit, rent or farm out all or
any part of their exclusive right of transportation of
freight, or conveyance of passengers, with the privilege,
to any individual or individuals, or other company, and
for such term as may be agreed upon"-it being added
that the Company in the exercise of the right of transportation, or the persons or company "so renting from
said company . . . shall, so far as they act on the
same, be regarded as common carriers." (Laws of 1838,
p. 174, at p. 179.)
It will be perceived that when this section was drawn
it was supposed that different persons might be allowed
to put their carriages upon the new form of road, as perhaps may be seen even more clearly in other early charters
in Georgia and elsewhere. And the revenue that was to be
derived from the exclusive privilege granted might be

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

679

Opinion of the Court.

obtained by doing the whole business, by letting in others
to share a part of it, or by making a lease of the whole.
Any one, of the three courses is permitted; one deemed
as likely as another, and also so far as appears, all standing
alike in the mind of the legislature in respect of any legal
effect upon the other grant of rights.
The foregoing view of § 16 would lead us to believe that
no change in the matter of tax exemption was expected
to follow from the demise of the road, any more than it
.would have followed from the admission of another carrier
to partial rights, or of an individual to carry his own.goods.
But that is only an introduction to further considerations.
We cannot suppose that the Legislature meant either to
practice a cunning deception or to make a futile grant.
Therefore, we are unable to read the charter. as making the
exemption vain by reserving to the State an unlimited
right to impose upon the lessee all that it had renounced
as against the lessor. For that was to give notice to the
parties, if they were supposed to know the law, that the
exemption would be lost if the income was earned in one
of the contemplated ways-or, if they were supposed
ignorant, was to invite them to a bargain that was to have
an unexpected and disastrous result.
After the charter came a special act of January 22, 1852
(Laws of 1852, p. 119), which authorized the Central Railroad and Banking Company "to lease and work for such
time and on such terms as may be agreed on by the parties
interested," the two roads with which we are concerned,
among others, and reciprocally giving power to the corporations owning those roads "so to lease to the Central
Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia their respective Railroads for such term of time and on such other
terms as they respectively may deem best." In the interval the Rail Road had become a Railroad-but we see no
ground for believing that. there has been any change in
the attitude of the State toward the pioneer enterprises

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

that it was encouraging a few years before. We still cannot suppose that it was inviting the lessors to lose the
benefit of their exemption or the lessees to find themselves
entrapped with a burden made possible only by accepting
the invitation of the act.
We are not suggesting that the contract in the charters
of the lessors passed by assignment to the lessee, nor, are
we implying that the property was exempted generally,
into whosesoever hands it might come. We are dealing
only with the specific transaction permitted and encouraged by the Acts of 1838 and 1852, and saying that
we cannot reconcile it with our construction of those acts
to allow that transaction to change the position for the
worse. We construe those statutes as making the fee
exempt from other taxation than that provided for, in
favor as well of the lessee as of the lessor-the protection
of the lessee being necessary in order to make good that
promised to the lessor.
The present instruments, made in pursuance of the
foregoing powers in October, 1895, purport to 'demise,
lease and to farm let' the property for the term of one hundred and one years, renewable as above stated. The lessee
covenants to pay a fixed rent semi-annually and various
expenses incident to taking over the occupation of the
road and there is a clause of reentry in case of failure for
six months to make the semi-annual payment as agreed.
Meantime, however, the Code of 1861 had introduced
distinctions, hard to grasp for one trained only in the
common law of real property, between the usufruct of a
tenant and an estate for years; Code of 1910, §§ 3685,
3687, 3690, 3691; and it is argued that these leases created
estates of such a nature that the lessee was practically in
the position of owner subject to a rent charge, and was
taxable for the land. We agree that technical distinctions
are to be avoided as far as may be in matters of taxation,
and we are not curious to insist upon the differences be-

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

HUGHES

681

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

tween a lease, having about eighty-five years to run, that
may, not must, be renewed in perpetuity, and a fee subject
to a rent charge. But the disregard of technical distinctions is in the interest of substantial justice, not for the
purpose of enabling the State to escape from a binding
bargain. If we are right in our interpretation of the statute from which the parties to the leases got their powers,
this later legislation of Georgia is immaterial or should
not be construed as embracing an attempt to escape from
a contract by a subtlety that almost defies ingenuity to
understand. See Wright v. Georgia R. R. & Banking Co.,
216 U. S. 420, 432.
The executions, as we have said, must stand or fall on
the jurisdiction that they disclose. They attempt to tax
the fee as the property of the plaintiff. The injunction
runs only against taxing the plaintiff as owner. We discuss nothing but the question before us. For the reasons
that we have given we are of opinion that the taxes cannot
be collected on the present executions. The court cannot
take the place of the taxing power. Yost v. Dallas County,
ante, p. 50. It follows that the injunction must be sustained.
Decree affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

LAMAR

took no part in this decision.

MR. JUSTICE HUGHES

with whom MR. JUSTICE

PITNEY

concurs, dissenting.
It has repeatedly been declared by this court to be
settled law that tax exemptions, or tax limitations, are
personal to the grantee, that is, are non-transferable and
do not run with the property unless the legislature has
explicitly provided otherwise. It has been held not to
be enough that the grantee is authorized to make a conveyance of all its property, estate, privileges and fran-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES

and

PITNEY,

JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

chises. Morgan v. Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Wilson v.
Gaines, 103 U. S. 417; Louisville & Nashville R. R. v.
Palmes, 109 U. S. 244; Memphis &c. R. R. v. RailroadCommission, 112 U. S. 609; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. v. Miller, 114
U. S. 176; Picardv. Tennessee &c. R. R., 130 U. S. 637; St.
Louis &c. Ry. v. Gill, 156 U. S. 649; Norfolk & Western
R. R. v. Pendleton, 156 U. S. 667; Phwnix Fire,Ins. Co. v.
Tennessee, 161 U. S. 174; Rochester Railway v. Rochester,
205 U. S. 236. As the court said in the last-mentioned
case (p. 248) after fully reviewing the authorities: "A legislative authorization of the transfer of 'the property and
franchises,'

.

.

.

of 'the property,'

.

.

.

of 'the

charter and works,' .
or of 'the rights of franchise and property,'
is not sufficient to include
an exemption from the taxing or other power of the
State,- and it cannot be contended that the word 'estate'
has any larger meaning." And it was further held
(p. 252) that it must be regarded as the established rule
"that a statute authorizing or directing the grant or
transfer of the 'privileges' of a corporation, which enjoys
immunity from taxation or regulation, should not be
interpreted as including that immunity." See also Wright
v. Georgia R. R. & Banking Co., 216 U. S. 420, 437. The
controlling principle of these decisions is that, in view of
the supreme importance of the taxing power of the State,
every doubt must be resolved in favor of its continuance.
"This salutary rule of interpretation is founded upon an
obvious public policy, which regards such exemptions as
in derogation of the sovereign authority and of common
right, and, therefore, not to be extended beyond the exact
and express requirement of the grants, construed strictissimi juris." Memphis &c. R. R. v. Railroad Commission,
supra (p. 617). "If the legislature can lay aside a power
devolved upon it for the good of the whole people of the
State, for the benefit of a private party, it must speak in
such unmistakable terms that they will not admit of any

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

HUGHES

and

PITNEY,

683

JJ., dissenting.

reasonable construction consistent with the reservation
of the power." Picard v. Tennessee &c. R. R., supra,
(p. 641).
I do not find a word in the statutes of Georgia which
confers any immunity from the taxing power upon this
appellee. The question relates to its interest, not to that
of the original companies. What that interest or property
may be, and how it is to be assessed, is another question.
The first inquiry is whether the appellee has any immunity
under the contract clause and that, I submit, is answered,
when it is found that it has no contract of its own and no
stipulation for a transfer to it of the immunity of others.
The principle which precludes the implication of such
a transfer applies equally to leases-even leases for ordinary periods. A lessee is in no better position to claim
tax exemptions, or limitations, than a mortgagee, or a
purchaser at a foreclosure sale, who under legal authority
takes all the property, franchises, and privileges, of the
mortgagor. The question as to a leasehold interest was
presented in Jetton v. University of the South, 208 U. S.
489. There, the State had granted an exemption to the
University of one thousand acres of land. The University
gave leases of lots within this tract and thus a village
community was developed. An effort was made by the
State to tax the property against the University upon the
ground that the leases took it out of the exemption. But
the state court held otherwise; the property could not
be taxed against the University. University of the South
v. Skidmore, 87 Tennessee, .155. Thereupon the State,
under new legislation authorizing the taxing of leasehold
interest, assessed the lessees, -and the University with
the lessees brought suit in the Federal court to enjoin the
collection of the taxes upon the ground of impairment of
contract. The Circuit Court entered a decree in favor of
the University and enjoined the assessment. On the appeal
to -this court, it was urged in support of the decree that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

in taxing the leased property, the tax was placed upon
the only use to which the property could be put in order
that it might be made of benefit to the University. Indeed, it was said that the assessment under the legislative act destroyed the value of the exemption; that is,
that it was necessary to protect the lessee in orderlto save
the contract right. But this court overruled these contentions. It was thought to be 'plain that an exemption
granted to the owner of the land in fee does not extend
to an exemption from taxation of an interest in the same
land, granted by the owner of the fee to another person
as a lessee for a term of years.' The immunity of the one
gave no immunity to the other, and the contract of exemption did not imply 'in the most remote degree' that
the State would not thereafter 'so change its mode of
assessment as to reach the interest of a lessee directly.'
The State taxed what it had a right to tax, the lessee's
interest, even though it could not tax the University.
The exemption, said the court, 'lasts only so long as the
university owns the lands, and when it conveys a certain
interest in them to a third person it no longer owns that
interest, which at once becomes subject to the right of
the State to tax it.' In the present case, it may be assumed that, what the appellee has, it has acquired lawfully, but it cannot claim to be immune from taxation
or plead the contract of another.
I emphasize this, for it seems to me that its full recognition is important to a proper determination of the case,
and that what is denied to the appellee under the contract clause should not be asserted and permitted to have
a dominating effect under another name. Nor would
there be any basis for an imputation of unfair dealing
or sharp practice, in case a State undertakes to tax the
property of a company which itself has no immunity from
taxation, simply because its grantor had an immunity
which it was not able to transfer. The appellee says in

WRIGHT v. CENTRAL OF GEORGIA RY.
236 U. S.

HUGHES

685

and PiTNEY, JJ., dissenting.

its argument that it 'is not claiming any tax exemptions,'
and, as in fact it appears to have none, we should deal
with the case upon this footing.
What then is the relation of the appellee to the property
in question? Its predecessor, the Central Railroad &
Banking Company of Georgia, had leased the railroad
properties of the Augusta & Savannah and Southwestern
companies, respectively, in perpetuity, or during the
entire existence of the lessor companies. The property
of the Central Railroad & Banking Company of Georgia
was sold under foreclosure in 1895, and the appellee was
organized as a successor corporation and leases to it of the
railroad properties in question were executed by both
the original companies 'for the full term of one hundred
and one years, and renewable in like periods upon the
same terms forever.' The rental in each case was the
fixed sum of five per cent. on the amount of the capital
stock then outstanding, that is to say, the sum of $51,145
in the case of the Augusta & Savannah Company and
$259,555 in the case of the Southwestern Company. In
short, under what is termed a lease the appellee took
the. entire property to hold, if it pleased, in perpetuity,
subject to an annual charge of the amounts specified.
Dealing with the substance of things, as we must when
the Constitution of the United States is involved-and
not with mere forms or names-I am unable to see how
an ad valorem tax against the appellee upon the property
which it thus holds is a violation of due process of law under the Fourteenth Amendment. Under a system which
tolerates such incongruities as the taxing of the entire
value of the land to the owner of the equity of redemption,
while the interest of the mortgagee is separately taxed, it
would seem to be difficult to find ground for a constitutional objection to the treatment of the holder of a perpetual lease as virtual owner. See J. W. Perry Co. v.
Norfolk, 220 U. S. 472, 478. In the language of Mr. Chief

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
HUGHES

and PiTNEY, JJ., dissenting.

236 U. S.

Justice Bleckley in Wells v Savannah, 87 Georgia, 397,
399 (see 181 U. S. 531, 544, 545): "The value of property
consists in its use, and he who owns the use forever,
though it be on condition subsequent, is the true owner of
the property for the time being. This holds equally of a
city lot or of all the land in the world. Where taxation is
ad valorem, values are the ultimate objects of taxation, and
they to whom the values belong should pay the taxes.
Land sold or by a contract of bargain and sale demised
forever subject to a perpetual rent, is taxable as corporeal
property; and in private hands the rent also is.taxable as
an incorporeal hereditament. The tax on the former is
chargeable to the purchaser or perpetual tenant, and on
the latter to the owner of the rent." It can hardly be
said that it makes a constitutional difference that a socalled lessee, who may enjoy forever if it chooses, has also
the privilege of giving up the property at the renewal dates.
Nor do I understand it to be important, under the Federal
Constitution, how the interest of the appellee-which in
substance is ownership-is technically described. Surely,
the Fourteenth Amendment is not concerned with mere
technicalities of tenure; these, the State is free to abolish.
And it should be added that we do not have here any
question of double taxation, as the State has credited to
the appellee against the tax demanded the one-half of one
per cent., upon the net income, which was payable by the
original companies and the payment of which the appellee
had assumed.
In considering the constitutional capacity of the State,
we are dealing of course with the question as to what it
may do by the exercise of all the powet it possesses, and
not merely with the interpretation of its existing statutes.
Castillo v. McConnico, 168 ,U. S. 674, 683. I recognize
fully the difficulties in this case, so far as it has to do with
the interpretation and application of the Georgia tax laws.
And if it were the decision of the court as a mere matter of

WRIGHT v. LOUIS. & NASH. R. R.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

construction of the local law-in the absence of a controlling local decision-that the statutes of Georgia did not
justify the assessment actually made, I should withhold
this expression of dissent; for that would leave the matter,
as I conceive it should be left, within the control of the
courts and legislature of the State, so far as the mere
imposition of an ad valorem tax upon the property held and
enjoyed by the appellee is concerned.
But I am unable to concur in the view that the tax here
sought to be collected violates the Constitution of the
United States.

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE PITNEY concurs in this dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

also dissents.

WRIGHT,
COMPTROLLER
GEORGIA, v. LOUISVILLE
RAILROAD COMPANY.

GENERAL
OF
AND NASHVILLE

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 162.

Argued January 29, 1915.-Decided March 22, 1915.

Wright v. Central Ry. of Georgia, ante, p. 674, followed to effect that
under the statutes of Georgia and the leases involved in this action
executions for ad valorem taxes on railroads, the owners whereof
were exempted by statute from a greater tax than a specified per
cent on the income, could not be enforced against those in possession of the railroads as lessees.
The fact that owners of a railroad, who are exempted by statute from
paying a greater tax than a specified per cent on the income thereof,
lease the entire road to another company does not open the right of
the State to tax such lessees on the fee of the property.

