BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 471.

Argued December 16, 1914.-Decided January 25, 1915..

Acceptance, as well as delivery, of a pardon is essential to its validity;
if rejected by the person to whom it is tendered the court has no
power to force it on him. United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150.
Qucre whether the President of the United States may exercise the
pardoning power before conviction.
A witness may refuse to testify on the ground that his testimony may
have an incriminating effect, notwithstanding the President offers,
and he refuses, a pardon for any offense connected with the matters
in regard to which he is asked to testify.
There are substantial differences between legislative immunity and a
pardon; the latter carries an imputation of guilt and acceptance of
a confession of it, while the former is non-committal and tantamount
to silence of the witness.
There is a distinction between amnesty and pardon; the former overlooks the offense and is usually addressed to crimes against the sovereignty of the State and political offenses, the latter remits punishment and condones infractions of the peace of the State.
211 Fed. Rep. 492, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the effect of a pardon of the
President of the United States tendered to one who has
not been convicted of a crime nor admitted the commission

thereof, and also the necessity of acceptance of a pardon
in order to make it effective, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry A. Wise, with whom Mr. Henry W. Sackett
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

The proceeding before the grand jury was a "criminal
case" within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment.
Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547.

Plaintiff in error was privileged under the Fifth Amend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

236 U. S.

ment to decline to answer the questions upon the ground
that his answers thereto might tend to criminate him.
1 Burr's Trial, 244, Coombs; Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142
U. S. 564; Sanderson's Case, 3 Cranch, 638.
The refusal of a witness to answer questions upon the
ground that his answers may tend to criminate him does
not constitute either an admission or proof of his guilt of
any offense. 30 Am. & Eng. Ency., p. 1170; Rose v.
Blakemore, 21 E. C. L. Ryan & Moody, 382, 774; Phelin v.
Kinderline, 20 Pa. St. 354; State v. Bailey, 54 Iowa, 414;
Dorendingerv. Tschechtelin, 12 Daly (N. Y.), 34; Greenleaf
on Evidence, 16th ed., § 469d; Wigimore on Evidence,
§ 2272; Act of March 16, 1878, 20 Stat. 30; Wilson v.
United States, 149 U. S. 60; Fitzpatrick v. United States,
178 U. S. 304, 315; Boyle v. Smithman, 146 Pa. St. 255;
Beach v. United States, 46 Fed. Rep. 754.
The President was without power to issue any pardon
to plaintiff in error; and consequently the warrant tendered is null, void and of no effect. Art. II, § 2, Const.
U. S.; Martin v. Hunter, 1 Wheat. 304; Cooley's Const.
Lim., p. 11; Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307; Ex parteGarland,
4 Wall. 333; 20 Ops. Atty. Gen'l 330; 24 Am. & Eng.
Ency., pp. 575-6; 2 Hawkins P. C., Ch. 37, § 9, p. 543;
In re Nevitt, 117 Fed. Rep. 448; 11 Ops. Atty. Gen'l 227;
Howard's Case, Sir T. Raymond, 13; 83 Eng. Rep. (Full
Reprint), 7; United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766; Carlisle v. United States,
16 Wall. 147; Lapeyre v. United States, 17 Wall. 191;
Osborn v. United States, 91 U. S. 474; Wallach v. Van
Riswick, 92 U. S. 202; United States v. Padelford, 9 Wall.
531; Armstrong v. United States, 13 Wall. 155; Pargoudv.
United States, 13 Wall. 157.
Plaintiff in error having refused to accept the tendered
pardon, the same is of no effect. Wilson v. United States,
7 Pet. 150; Commonwealth v. Lockwood, 109 Massachusetts,
323; Cooley, Const. Law, 3d ed., p. 115.

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The decision of the court below is equivalent to the
conviction of plaintiff in error of an offense against the
United States without trial by jury, and consequently in
violation of his rights under the Constitution of the
United States. See Fifth and Sixth Amendments, Const.
U. S.; 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. 579; 11 Ops. Atty. Gen'l 227;
Dominick v. Bowdoin, 44 Georgia, 357; Manlove v. State,
153 Indiana, 80; Commonwealth v. Lockwood, 109 Massachusetts, 323; People v. Marsh, 125 Michigan, 410;
United States v. Armour, 142 Fed. Rep. 808.
The tendered pardon is not an equivalent of the constitutional privilege of plaintiffs in error. Counselman v.
Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 564; Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591;
Cooley's Const. Lim., pp. 5, 365.
The interpretation of the language of the Constitution
conferring the pardoning power upon the President,
"and he shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons
for offenses against the United States except in cases of
impeachment," (Art. II, § 2, subd. 1) contended for by
the United States stretches the actual language of the
Constitution in that it makes the word "offenses" connote conjectural or purely hypothetical offenses in addition to ascertained events. Assuming for the sake of
argument that this construction is permissible, upon a
mere examination of the language, then there is presented
a case in which there is a choice between two permissible
constructions and in such a case the court must choose the
one which is most in harmony with the Constitution taken
as a whole and with the spirit of our institutions. Gibbons
v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,188; Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wall. 457,
531-532; In re Griffin, 17 Am. L. R. 358.
The construction of the words conferring the pardoning power that is contended for by the United States
would tend to destroy some of the most essential safeguards of free government. It would pervert the grand
jury, which in its origin was an institution which stood
VOL. CCxxxvi-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for the United States.

236 U. S.

as a barrier against persecution by the crown into an
instrument of inquisition that might be used by the
executive department for the purpose of throttling the
free and wholesome criticism of the acts of public officials.
It would tend to destroy to a dangerous degree the separation of powers between the executive and the judicial
branches of the government and in practical effect would
arm the executive with summary powers which ought to
be possessed only by the judicial branch. It would inevitably create the possibility of putting into effect a
system of censorship of news concerning the acts of public
officials and tend to the creation of a secret and powerful
bureaucracy. Ex parteBain, 121 U. S. 1, 10-11; Kilbourn
v. Thompson, 103 U. S. 168, 190; United States Constitution, Art. III, § 1; Art. II, § 1; Art. I, § 1; Fifth Amendment.
The Solicitor Generalfor the United States:
The President has the power to pardon a person for an
offense of which he has not been convicted. It was so in
England. 3 Coke's Inst. 233, c. 105, Of Pardons; 14
Blackstone, c. 26, subd. IV, 4, and see c. 28; 6 Halsbury's
Laws of England, p. 404.
In this country from the very first, Presidents have
exercised not only the power to pardon in specific cases
before conviction, but even to grant general amnesties.
20 Ops. Atty. Gen'l 339. And see Ex parte Garland, 4
Wall. 333;Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591.
In the constitutions of some of the States the power of

the governor to grant pardons is expressly limited by the
words "after conviction," but in the States in which this
limitation is not contained in the constitutions the governor
may pardon before conviction. Dominick v. Bowdoin, 44
Georgia, 357; Grubb v. Bullock, 44 Georgia, 379; Commonwealth v. Bush, 2 Duv. (Ky.) 264; State v. Woolery, 29

Missouri, 300.

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

A pardon may be granted for an offense which has
neither been admitted nor proved. It is true that a pardon cannot be granted as a license for future misdoing,
but the pardons involved in the cases at bar do not relate
to future offenses, but to offenses which the plaintiffs in
have committed, or taken
error have committed or m ,.y
part in.
A person may be pardoned for an offense which has not
been proved. An acknowledgment by the person pardoned
that his answer will tend to incriminate him is basis enough
for granting a pardon, without any other proof of the
offense or of his connection with it. This is the basis of
the immunity statutes.
A pardon may be granted for the purpose of affording
to a witness immunity from prosecution. The exercise of
the pardoning power of the President for this purpose does
not amount to a usurpation of legislative functions even
if it be true that it is within the powers of Congress to
enact laws securing to witnesses immunity from prosecution in lieu of the constitutional prohibition against
See Brown v.
compelling incriminating testimony.
Walker, 161 U. S. 591.
The exercise of this power by Congress, however, can
have no effect in limiting the constitutional power of the
President to grant pardons. The President's power of
pardon" is not subject to legislation," and" Congress can
neither limit the effect of his pArdon nor exclude from its
exercise any class of offenders." United States v. Klein,
13 Wall. 128, 141. It cannot be interrupted, abridged, or
limited by any legislative enactment. The Laura, 114
U. S. 411, 414; Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333, 380.
The immunity afforded by the pardons is as broad as
the protection afforded by the constitutional provision
against compelling a person to be a witness against himself. Counselman v. Hitchcock, 142 U. S. 547, distinguished. And see Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591; Int.

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Com. Comm. v. Baird, 194 U. S. 25; Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S. 43; Nelson v. United States, 201 U. S. 92.
No formal acceptance is necessary to give effect to the
pardons. United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150, has no
application here, and see In re Callicot, 8 Blatchf. 89, 96.
Although a court takes no notice of a pardon unless it is
pleaded or in some way claimed coramjudice by the person
pardoned, United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150, and the
plaintiffs in error might refuse the benefit of their pardons
should they be prosecuted for the offenses which are
covered by the pardons, that does not affect their validity.
The pardons have been executed, formally tendered to
plaintiffs in error, have been filed with the clerk of the
court for the jurisdiction in which the testimony is required, and remain at the disposal of plaintiffs in error.
They have passed out of the control of the President and
of the executive department of the Government with the
intention that they shall pass to the plaintiffs in error, so
that there has been as complete a delivery as it is possible
to make, and if they are not irrevocable now they would
become so at the very instant that the required testimony
is given.
It is the object of the constitutional privilege to protect the witness from the danger of prosecution for a
past offense which his evidence may disclose or to which
his evidence may give a clue. But, since that danger has
been completely removed by the pardons of which the plaintiffs may avail themselves at any time after the moment
of testifying, the constitutional privilege cannot be invoked
by them, for there is nothing to which it can apply-no
danger against which its protecting shield is necessary.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Error to review a judgment for contempt against Burdick upon presentment of the Federal grand jury for

13URDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

refusing to answer certain questions put to him in an investigation then pending before the grand jury into alleged custom frauds in violation of §§ 37 and 39 of the
Criminal Code of the United States.
Burdick first appeared before the grand jury and refused
to answer questions as to the directions he gave and the
sources of his information concerning certain articles in
the New York Tribune regarding the frauds under investigation. He is the City Editor of that paper. He
declined to answer, claiming upon his oath, that his answers might tend to criminate him. Thereupon he was
remanded to appear at a later day and upon so appearing
he was handed a pardon which he Was told had been obtained for him upon the strength of his testimony before
the other grand jury. The following is a copy of it:
"Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States of
America, to all to whom these presents shall come, Greeting:
"Whereas George Burdick, an editor of the New York
Tribune, has declined to testify before a Federal Grand
Jury now in session in the Southern District of New York,
in a proceeding entitled 'United States v. John Doe and
Richard Roe,' as to the sources of the information which
he had in the New York Tribune office, or in his possession, or under his control at the time he sent Henry D.
Kingsbury, a reporter on the said New York Tribune, to
write an article which appeared in the said New York
Tribune in its issue of December thirty first, 1913, headed
'Glove Makers' Gems may be Customs Size,' on the
ground that it would tend to incriminate him to answer
the questions; and,
"Whereas, the United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York desires to use the said George Burdick as a witness before the said Grand Jury in the said
proceeding for the purpose of determining whether any
employ6 of the Treasury Department at the Custom

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

House, New York City, has been betraying information
that came to such person in an official capacity; and,
"Whereas, it is believed that the said George Burdick
will again refuse to testify in the said proceeding on the
ground that his testimony might tend to incriminate
himself;
"Now, Therefore, be it Known, that I, Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States of America, in consideration of the premises, divers other good and sufficient
reasons me thereunto moving, do hereby grant unto the
said George Burdick a full and unconditional, pardon for
all offenses against the United States which he, the said
George.Burdick, has committed or may have committed,
or taken part in, in connection with the securing, writing
about, or assisting in the publication of the information so
incorporated in the aforementioned article, and in connection with any other article, matter or thing, concerning
which he may be interrogated in the said grand jury proceeding, thereby absolving him from the consequences of
every such criminal act.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto signed my
name and caused the seal of the Department of Justice
to be affixed. Done at the City of Washington this
fourteenth day of February, in the year of our Lord One
Thousand Nine Hundred and Fourteen, and of the Independence of the United States the One Hundred and
Thirty-eighth."
He declined to accept the pardon or answer questions as
to the sources of his information, or whether he furnished
certain reporters information, giving the reason, as before,
that the answers might tend to criminate him. He was
presented by the grand jury to the District Court for
contempt and adjudged guilty thereof and to pay a fine of
$500, with leave, however, to purge himself by testifying
fully as to the sources of the information sought of him,
"and in event of his refusal or failure to so answer, .a

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

commitment may issue in addition until he shall so comply," the court deciding that the President has power to
pardon for a crime of which the individual has not been
convicted and which he does not admit and that acceptance is not necessary to toll the privilege against incrimination.
Burdick again appeared before the grand jury, again
was questioned as before, again refused to accept the
pardon and again refused to answer upon the same
grounds as before. A final order of commitment was then
made and entered and he was committed to the custody
of the United States Marshal until he should purge himself
of contempt or until the further order of the court. This
writ of error was then allowed.
The question in the case is the effect of the unaccepted
pardon. The Solicitor General in his discussion of the
question, following the division of the District Court,
contends (1) that the President has power to pardon an
offense before admission or conviction of it, and (2) the
acceptance of the pardon is not necessary to its complete
exculpating effect. The conclusion is hence deduced that
the pardon removed from Burdick all danger of accusation
or conviction of crime and that, therefore, the answers to
the questions put to him could not tend to or accomplish
his incrimination.
Plaintiff in error coufiters the contention and conclusion
with directly opposing ones and makes other contentions
which attack the sufficiency of the pardon as immunity and
the power of the President to grant a pardon for an offense
not precedently established nor confessed nor defined.
The discussion of counsel is as broad as their contentions. Our consideration may be more limited. In our
view of the case it is not material to decide whether the
pardoning power may be exercised before conviction. We
may, however, refer to some aspects of the contentions of
plaintiff in error, although the case may be brought to

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

the narrow question, Is the acceptance of a pardon necessary? We are relieved from much discussion of it by
United States v. Wilson, 7 Peters, 150. Indeed, all of the
principles upon which its solution depends were there considered and the facts of the case gave them a peculiar
and interesting application.
There were a number of indictments against Wilson and
one Porter, some of which were for obstructing the mail
and others for robbing the mail and putting the life of the
carrier in jeopardy. They were convicted on one of the
latter indictments, sentenced to death, and Porter was
executed in pursuance of the sentence. President Jackson
pardoned Wilson, the pardon reciting that it was for the
crime for which he had been sentenced to suffer death,
remitting such penalty with the express stipulation that
the pardon should not extend to any judgment which
might be had or obtained against him in any other case or
cases then pending before the court for other offenses
wherewith he might stand charged.
To another of the indictments Wilson withdrew his
plea of not guilty and pleaded guilty. Upon being arraigned for sentence the court suggested the propriety of
inquiring as to the effect of the pardon, "although alleged
to relate to a conviction on another indictment." Wilson
was asked if he wished to avail himself of the pardon, to
which he answered in person that (7 Pet., p. 154) "he had
nothing to say, and that he did not wish in any manner to
avail himself, in order to avoid sentence in this particular
case, of the pardon referred to."
The judges were opposed in opinion and certified to this
court for decision two propositions which were argued by
the district attorney of the United States, with one only of
which we are concerned. It was as follows (p. 154):
"2. That the prisoner can, under this conviction, derive
no advantage from the pardon, without bringing the same
judicially before the court by plea, motion or otherwise."

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

There was no appearance for Wilson. Attorney General
Taney (afterwards Chief Justice of this court) argued the
case on behalf of the United States. The burden of his
argument was that a pardon, to be effective, must be
accepted. The proposition was necessary to be established as his contention was that a plea of the pardon was
necessary to arrest the sentence upon Wilson. And he
said, speaking of the pardon (p. 156), "It is a grant to him
[Wilson]; it is his property; and he may accept it or not
as he pleases," and, further, "It is insisted that unless he
pleads it, or in some way claims its benefit, thereby denoting his acceptance of the proffered grace, the court
cannot notice it, nor allow it to prevent them from passing
sentence. The whole current of authority establishes this
principle." The authorities were cited and it was declared that "the necessity of pleading it, or claiming it in
some other manner, grows out of the nature of the grant.
He must accept it."
There can be no doubt, therefore, of the contention of
the Attorney General and we have quoted it in order to
estimate accurately the response of the court to it. The
response was complete and considered the contention in
two aspects, (1) a pardon as the act of the President, the
official act under the Constitution; and (2) the attitude
and right of the person to whom it is tendered. Of the
former it was said (p. 160) that the power had been
"exercised from time immemorial by the executive of
that nation (England) whose language is our language,
and to whose judicial institutions ours bear a close resemblance; we adopt their principles respecting the operation and effect of a pardon, and look into their books for
the rules prescribing the manner in which it is to be used
by the person who would avail himself of it." From that
source of authority and principle the court deduced and
declared this conclusion: "A pardon is an act of grace,
proceeding from the power entrusted with the execution of

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U., S.

the laws, which exempts the individual, on whom it is
bestowed, from the punishment the law inflicts for a
crime he has committed. It is the private, [italics ours]
though official act of the executive magistrate, delivered
to the individual for whose benefit it is intended." In
emphasis of the official act and its functional deficiency if
not accepted by him to whom it is tendered, it was said,
"A private deed, not communicated to him, whatever may
be its character, whether a pardon or release, is totally
unknown and cannot be acted on."
Turning then to the other side, that is, the effect of a
pardon on him to whom it is offered and completing its
description and expressing the condition of its consummation, this was said: "A pardon is a deed, to the validity of
which delivery is essential, and delivery is not complete
without acceptance. It may then be rejected by the
person to whom it is tendered; and if it be rejected, we
have discovered no power in a court to force it on him."
That a pardon by its mere issue haa automatic effect
resistless by him to whom it is tendered, forcing upon him
by mere executive power whatever consequences it may
have or however he may regard it, which seems to be the
contention of the Government in the case at bar, was
rejected by the court with particularity and emphasis.
The decision is unmistakable. A pardon was denominated
as the "private" act, the "private deed," of the executive
magistrate, and the denomination was advisedly selected
to mark the incompleteness of the act or deed without its
acceptance.
Indeed, the grace of a pardon, though good its intention,
may be only in pretense or seeming; in pretense, as having
purpose not moving from the individual to whom it is
offered; in seeming, as involving consequences of even
greater disgrace than those from which it purports to
relieve. Circumstances may be made to bring innocence
under the penalties of the law. If so brought, escape by

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

confession of guilt implied in the acceptance of a pardon
may be rejected,-preferring to be the victim of the law
rather than its acknowledged transgressor-preferring
death even to such certain infamy. This, at least theoretically, is a right and a right is often best tested in its
extreme. "It may be supposed," the court said in United
States v. Wilson (p. 161), "that no being condemned to
death would reject a pardon; but the rule must be the
same in capital cases and in misdemeanors. A pardon
may be conditional; and the condition may be more objectionable than the punishment inflicted by the judgment."
The case would seem to need nc further comment and
we have quoted from it not only for its authority but for
its argument. It demonstrates by both the necessity of
the acceptance of a pardon to its legal efficacy, and the
court did not hesitate in decision, as we have seen, whatever the alternative of acceptance-whether it be death or
lesser penalty. The contrast shows the right of the
individual against the exercise of executive power not
solicited by him nor accepted by him.
The principles declared in Wilson v. United States have
endured for years; no case has reversed or modified them.
In Ex parte William Wells, 18 How. 307, 310, this court
said, "It was with the fullest knowledge of the law upon
the subject of pardons, and the philosophy of government
in its bearing upon the Constitution, when this court instructed Chief Justice Marshall" to declare the doctrine
of that case. And in Commonwealth v. Lockwood it was
said by Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, he then being a member
of that court, "it is within the election of a defendant
whether he will avail himself of a pardon from the executive (be the pardon absolute or conditional)." 109
Massachusetts, 323, 339. The whole discussion of the
learned justice will repay a reference. He cites and re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

views the cases with the same accurate and masterful
consideration that distinguished all of his judicial work,
and the proposition declared was one of the conclusions
deduced.
United States v. Wilson, however, is attempted to be
removed as authority by the contention that it dealt with
conditional pardons and that, besides, a witness cannot
apprehend from his testimony a conviction of guilt, which
conviction he himself has the power to avert, or be heard
to say' that the testimony can be used adversely to him,
when he himself has the power to prevent it by accepting
the immunity offered him. In support of the contentions
there'is an intimation of analogy between pardon and
amnesty, cases are cited, and certain statutes of the United
States are adducedwhereby immunity was imposed in
certain instances and under its unsolicited protection testimony has been exacted against the claim of privilege
asserted by witnesses. There is plausibility in the contentio~is; it disappears upon reflection. Let us consider
the contentions in their order:
(1) To hold that the principle of United States v. Wilson
was expressed only as to conditional pardons would be to
assert that the language and illustrations which were used
to emphasize the principle announced were meant only to
destroy it. Besides, the pardon passed on was not conditional. It was limited in that-and only in that--it was
confined to the crime for which the defendant had been
convicted and for which he had been sentenced to suffer
death. This was its emphasis and distinction. Other
charges were pending against him, and it was expressed
that the pardon should not extend to them. But such
would have been its effect without expression. And we
may say that it had more precision than the pardon in
the pending case. Wilson had been indicted for a specific
statutory crime, convicted and sentenced to suffer death.
It was to the crime so defined and established that the

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pardon was directed. In the case at bar nothing is defined.
There is no identity of the offenses pardoned, and no other
clue to ascertain them but the information incorporated in
an article in a newspaper. And not that entirely, for
absolution is declared for whatever crimes may have been
committed or taken part in "in connection with any other
article, matter or thing concerning which he [Burdick]
may be interrogated."
It is hence contended by Burdick that the patdon is
illegal for the absence of specification, not reciting the
offenses upon which it is intended to operate; worthless,
therefore, as immunity. To support the contention cases
are cited. It is asserted, besides, that the pardon is void
as being outside of the power of the President under the
Constitution of the United States, because it was issued
before accusation, or conviction or admission of an offense.
This, it is insisted, is precluded by the constitutional
provision which gives power only "to grant reprieves and
pardons for offenses against the United States," and it is
argued, in effect, that not in the imagination or purpose
of executive magistracy can an "offense against the
United States" be established, but only by the confession
of the offending individual or the judgment of the judicial
tribunals. We do not dwell further on the attack. We
prefer to place the case on the ground we have stated.
(2) May plaintiff in error, having the means of immunity at hand, that is, the pardon of the President, refuse
to testify on the ground that his testimony may have an
incriminating effect? A superficial consideration might
dictate a negative answer but the answer would confound
rights which are distinct and independent.
It is to be borne in mind that the power of the President
under the Constitution to grant pardons and the right of a
witness must be kept in accommodation. Both have
sanction in the Constitution, and it should, therefore, be
the anxiety of the law to preserve both,-to leave to each

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

its proper place. In this as in other conflicts between
personal rights and the powers of government, technicaleven nice-distinctions are proper to be regarded. Granting then that the pardon was legally issued and was sufficient for immunity, it was Burdick's right to refuse it, as
we have seen, and it, therefore, not becoming effective, his
right under the Constitution to decline to testify remained
to be asserted; and the reasons for his action were personal.
It is true we have said (Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591,
605) that the law regards only mere penal consequences
and not "'the personal disgrace or opprobrium attaching to
the exposure" of crime, but certainly such consequence
may influence the assertion or relinquishment of a right.
This consideration is not out of place in the case at bar.
If it be objected that the sensitiveness of Burdick was
extreme because his refusal to answer was itself an implication of crime, we answer, not necessarily in fact, not at
all in theory of law. It supposed only a possibility of a
charge of crime and interposed protection against the
charge, and, reaching beyond it, against furnishing what
might be urged or used as evidence to support it.
This brings us to the differences between legislative
immunity and a pardon. They are substantial. The
latter carries an imputation of guilt; acceptance a confession of it. The former has no such imputation or
confession. It is tantamount to the silence of the witness.
It is non-committal. It is the unobtrusive act of the law
giving protection against a sinister use of his testimony,
not like a pardon requiring him to confess his guilt in
order to avoid a conviction of it.
It is of little service to assert or deny an analogy between
amnesty and pardon. Mr. Justice Field, in Knote v.
United States, 95 U. S. 149, 153, said that "the distinction
between them is one rather of philological interest than of
legal importance." This is so as to their ultimate effect,
but there are incidental differences of importance. They

BURDICK v. UNITED STATES.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

are of different character and have different purposes.
The one overlooks offense; the other remits punishment.
The first is usually addressed to crimes against the sovereignty of the State, to political offenses, forgiveness
being deemed more expedient for the public welfare than
prosecution and punishment. The second condones infractions of the peace of the State. Amnesty is usually
general, addressed to classes or even communities, a
legislative act, or under legislation, constitutional or
statutory, the act of the supreme magistrate. There may
or may not be distinct acts of acceptance. If other rights
are dependent upon it and are asserted there is affirmative
evidence of acceptance. Examples are afforded in United
States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall.
766; Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 147. See also Knote
v. United States, supra. If there be no other rights, its
only purpose is to stay the movement of the law. Its
function is exercised when it overlooks the offense and the
offender, leaving both in oblivion.
Judgment reversed with directions to dismiss the proceedings in contempt and discharge Burdick from custody.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the con-

sideration and decision of this case.

