AMERICAN CAR CO. v. KETTELHAKE.
236.U. 'S.

311

Syllabus.

court, it refused to give it force, and proceeded to adjudge
the case upon its own view of jurisdiction. This court held
that the state court was bound to give weight to the judgment of the Federal court deciding that it had jurisdiction,
and that the judgment, until reversed, was conclusive
upon the state court as to the jurisdiction of the Federal
court.
But no such case is presented here. The Federal court,
it is true, more than once made an order continuing the
case, and finally dismissed it for want of prosecution.
The question of its authority to take jurisdiction was never
presented or decided in the Federal court, and there is
nothing in the orders made conclusive of that question in
such sense that the state court was bound to respect it.
As the record upon its face made no case for removal
the state court was right in retaining its jurisdiction, and
proceeding to determine and adjudge the case. The judgment is
Affirmed.

AMERICAN CAR & FOUNDRY COMPANY v.
KETTELHAKE.
ERROR TO ST. LOUIS COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 138.

Argued January 20, 1915.-Decided Febuary 23, 1915.

Where there is a joint cause of action against defendants resident of
plaintiff's State and a non-resident defendant, in order to make the
case removable as to the latter because of the dismissal as to the
former, the discontinuance as to the resident defendants must have
been the voluntary act of the plaintiff and have so taken the resident
defendants out of the case as to leave the controversy one wholly
between the plaintiff and the non-resident defendant.
Under the practice in Missouri, when the court has sustained demurrers
by some of the defendants and allowed plaintiff to take an involun-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

tary non-suit as against them with leave to set it aside, the case is
not then ended as against those defendants, nor is it until after affirmance by the appellate court or the expiration of plaintiff's time
to appeal; the controversy does not become one solely between the
plaintiff and the other defendants, and even if the latter are nonresidents of plaintiff's State the case is not removable as to them.
Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry., 169 U. S. 92, distinguished.
171 Mo. App. 528, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve questions regarding removal
from the state to the Federal court where the cause of
action has been dismissed after trial as to all the defendants, resident of the same State as plaintiff, are stated in
the opinion.
Mr. William R. Gentry, with whom Mr. M. F. Watts and
Mr. Edwin W. Lee were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. George Safford for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Agnes Kettelhake was the widow of one Frank Kettelhake, who had been in the employ of the American Car &
Foundry Company (hereinafter called the Car Company)
at Saint Louis, Missouri. She brought her action to recover for the negligent killing of Kettelhake by the movement of a certain train of cars operated by the Car Company in the yard adjacent to its plant whilst Kettelhake
was working under an unfinished car. Her action was
brought in the Circuit Court of the City of Saint Louis,
and the Car Company, a New Jersey corporation, William
W. Eilers and Quincy Martin, citizens of Missouri, as was
the plaintiff, were made joint defendants. It is conceded
that the action was properly brought jointly against the
Car Company and the defendants Eilers and Martin.
The negligence charged was in substance that the defend-

AMERICAN CAR CO. v. KETTELHAKE.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ants omitted to instruct and require their employ6s to so
mark cars under and about which other employ6s were
engaged in work that all persons would know whether
employ6s were working under such cars; negligently
omitted to notify Kettel~ake that defendants were about
to move the car under which he was working; negligently
omitted to discover that Kettelhake was under and repairing the car; and negligently caused the wheels and
trucks of the car under which he was working to run over
him.
Answers were filed and issues joined, and the case was
called for trial in the Circuit Court of the City of St. Louis;
and at the close of the plaintiff's evidence each of the defendants requested the court to give in its behalf a peremptory instruction to find for the defendant. Under the
Missouri practice such instructions are usually referred to
as demurrers to the evidence. The court sustained the
demurrer offered by the defendant Martin and that offered
by the defendant Eilers, and overruled the demurrer
offered by the defendant Car Company, to which action
of the court in sustaining the demurrers offered by Martin
and Eilers, plaintiff then and there excepted, and saved her
exceptions at the time. Plaintiff asked leave to take an
involuntary non-suit as to the defendants Eilers and
Martin, with leave to move to set aside the same, and leave
to take such non-suit was granted by the court and said
involuntary non-suit with leave to move to set aside the
same was taken; thereupon the defendant Car Company
orally asked the court for time to prepare and file a petition and bond for removal from the state court to the
Federal court, which time the court then and there
granted. Before said petition for removal and bond were
filed, the plaintiff, by leave of court, orally moved the
court to set aside the involuntary non-suit which plaintiff
had taken as to defendants Martin and Eilers, which
motion was then and there overruled. Thereupon the

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.','
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

Car Company filed its petition:.for removal to the Federal
court and bond, which petition for removal was denied,
to which denial the Car Company then and there excepted.
At the same term, and within four days after ihe non-suits
as to defendants Martin and Eilers were taken, and during
the -same term that the verdict and judgment were rendered, plaintiff filed separate motions praying the court
to overrule .the order theretofore made overruling plaintiff's motion to set aside said non-suits, and reinstate the
cause, and praying the court to grant plaintiff a new trial
as to said defendants, which 'motions were overruled.
Thereafter plaintiff filed her application and prayed an
appeal as to the defendant Martin to the Supreme Court
of Missouri, which appeal by order of the court duly
entered of record was allowed, and it is conceded that the
matter appealed from is now pending in the Supreme
Court of Missouri, and, so far as it appears, is undecided.
A verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiff-against
the Car Company, and afterwards the case was taken to
the Supreme Court of Missouri, which court held that it
had no jurisdiction and that the exclusive jurisdiction
was in. the St. Louis Circuit Court of Appeals, to which the
cause was transferred. That court passed upon other
questions to which it is not necessary to refer, and as to
the right of removal held that the case was not a removable
one. It is to that part of the judgment that this writ 'of
error is. taken.
To'sustain its contention the plaintiff in error relies upon
the case of Powers v. Chesapeake & Ohio Railway 169
U. S. 92. In that case it appears that there were two
petitions for removal in a case in which an action was
brought against a non-resident railroad and two citizens
of the same state as the plaintiff. The case was first removed to the Circuit Court of the United States, but
upon motion was remanded to the state court, the United
States court holding that there was no separable contro-

AMERICAN CAR CO. v. KETTELHAKE.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

versy between the Railroad Company and the plaintiff.
.When the case was called for trial before a jury in the
state court, the plaintiff discontinued his action against
the individual defendants, and thereupon the Railroad
Company filed a second petition for removal. That
application was denied by the state court, but was granted
by the Circuit Court of the United States, and the question was as to the propriety of the order of removal. It
was held when the case was discontinued as to the defendants who were citizens of the same State with the
plaintiff, the action became for the first time one against
the Railroad Company alone, and therefore properly removable at that time.
In Kansas City &c. Ry. v. Herman, 187 U. S. 63, it
was held that a case was not removable because the court
had held that as to a resident defendant there was not
sufficient evidence to warrant a verdict, and sustained
a demurrer to the evidence. It was held that the ruling
was on the merits and in invitum, and that there was
nothing to show that the original joinder was in bad faith.
In Fritzlen v. Boatmen's Bank, 212 U. S. 364, the principle of the Powers Case was applied, and it was held that
an application for removal under the circumstances there
shown was within time under the ruling in the Powers Case.
In Lathrop, Shea & Henwood Co. v. Interior Construction
& Improvement Co., 215 U. S. 246, it was held that, where
the plaintiff insisted on the joint liability of the nonresident and resident defendants, the dismissal of the
complaint on th6 merits as to the defendants who were
citizens of the same State with the plaintiff did ot make
the case then removable, and did not prevent the plaintiff from taking a verdict against the defendants who
might have removed the suit had they been sued alone
or had there originally been a separable controversy as
to them.
Taking these cases together, we think it fairly appears

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

-

236 U. S.

from them that where there is a joint cause of action
against defendants resident of the same State with the
plaintiff and a non-resident defendant, it must appear
to make the case a removab1e one as to a non-resident
defendant because of dismissal as to resident defendants
that the discontinuance as to such defendants was voluntary on the part of the plaintiff, and that such action has
taken the resident defendants out of the case, so as to leave
a controversy wholly between the plaintiff and the nonresident defendant. We do not think that situation is
shown by this record. In other words, as the St. Louis
Court, of Appeals said, the resident defendants had not
"so completely disappeared from the case as to leave
the controversy one entirely between the plaintiff and a
non-resident corporation." The trial judge recognized
this when he overruled the motion to allow the petition
for removal. In this connection the judge said:
"Under the evidence in this case Martin is not liable
and in pursuance to that ruling you take a non-suit with
leave to move to set the same aside; so that in my opinion
he is still a party tb the suit. Your motion to set aside
the non-suit might hereafter be granted, and then we
would have a section of the suit in the United States court
and a section here."
This conclusion seems to be in conformity with the
holdings of the Supreme-Court of Missouri as to the effect
of such non-suit. In Chouteau v. Rowse, 90 Missouri, 191,
the Supreme Court of Missouri held that when a voluntary non-suit is taken the plaintiff abandons his suit and
it is ended; and from the judgment entered upon it there
is no appeal; but when a plaintiff is compelled, by the
adverse ruling of the court, to take an involuntary nonsuit with leave to move to set the same aside, with a view
not to abandon the prosecution of the suit, but to test
the correctness of the ruling by appeal, the appeal only
removes the cause from the Circuit Court to the appellate

AMERICAN CAR CO. v. KETTELHAKE.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

court, and, wh3n bond is given, the judgment for nonsuit is superseded, and can only become operative and
enforceable in the event of its being affirmed by the appellate court. It is only when so affirmed that a plaintiff,
in contemplation of the statute of Missouri (R. S., ยง 3239)
can be said to suffer a non-suit. The same practice was
recognized in Nivert v. Railroad,232 Missouri, 626, and in
Lewis v. Mining Co., 199 Missouri, 403, 468.

We have examined the cases from the Supreme Court
of Missouri, relied-upon by the plaintiff in error, and we
find nothing in them to militate against the conclusion
reached in circumstances like those now presented. The
ruling of the court sustaining the demurrer to the evidence interposed by the resident defendants practically

determined the question of their liability, and, under the
Missouri practice, as we understand it, there was a right
to take an involuntary non-suit with leave to move to
set it aside, and when that motion was overruled there
was a remedy by appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri, as was done in the present case, and the order is
not final until the appellate court passes upon it.
We cannot agree to the contention that upon this record, when the court had sustained the demurrers to the
evidence as to Martin and Eilers and plaintiff took the
non-suit, the case was so far terminated as between the
plaintiff and the resident defendants as to leave a removable controversy wholly between the plaintiff and a nonresident corporation.
The element upon which the decision in the Powers
Case depended,-the voluntary dismissal and consequent
conclusion of the suit in the state court as to the resident.
defendants,- is not present in this case.

We think the Court of Appeals of the City of St. Louis
correctly ruled that the case is not a removable one, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

