RAMAPO WATER CO. v. NEW YORK.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

But the decision was obtained by such frauds that the
matter was open for reconsideration by the courts. Washington Securities Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 76.
Decrees affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of these cases.

RAMAPO WATER COMPANY v. CITY OF NEW
YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 715.

Argued February 24, 1915.-Decided March 8, 1915.

Where the constitution of the State reserves the right so to do, the
charter of a corporation may be repealed without impairing the
obligations of a contract. Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591..
In the absence of a specific decision of the highest court of the State

to that effect, this court will not construe a statute authorizing a
water supply corporation to exercise eminent domain under the
provisions of the Railroad Act as giving to that corporation a vested
right to exclude the rest of the world from whatever watersheds it

chooses for an unlimited period and one that cannot be impaired by
subsequent legislation simply by filing a map.
The Railroad Act of New York requires a corporation intending to
exercise eminent domain not only to file maps of the property to be
taken but also to file written notice to the occupants thereof and
the mere filing of the map does not create rights against the State.
The legislation of the State of New York of 1905 empowering the

City of New York to acquire lands for its new water supply is-not
unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of the contract of the
charter rights of the plaintiff in error in this case or depriving it
of its property without due process of law under the act authorizing

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Argument for Appellant.

236 U. S.

it to acquire property in the same watershed under the provisions
of the Railroad Act, it appearing that no proceedings for such
acquisition had ever been taken beyond the filing of a map.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under
the impairment of obligation and due process clauses of
the Federal Constitution of legislation of the State of
New York in regard to the new water supply for the City
of New York, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Carroll G. Walter, with whom Mr. Walter C. Noyes

was on the brief, for appellant:
The bill having alleged the existence of a contract and
its impairment and the possession of property and its
deprivation without due process of law, a case arising
under the United States Constitution was presented, and
the District Court had jurisdiction, notwithstanding th ,
lack of diversity of citizenship.
The bill shows on its face that the plaintiff acquired,
by grant from the State, a vested right and franchise to
utilize the watersheds of the Esopus, Catskill, Schoharie

and Rondout Creeks for the purpose of constructing and
maintaining a water works system, and to supply water
from these. sources to the various municipalities of the
State.
The franchise so acquired by the plaintiff constitutes a
contract and a vested property right protected by the
Federal Constitution, and was not destroyed by the repealing acts mentioned in the bill.
The acts and proceedings of the defendants, done under
color of authority of state laws, constitute an impairment
of the plaintiff's contracts and a taking of its property
without due process of law.
The defendants have no "special authority from the
legislature" to take the lands and waters to which the
plaintiff's franchise relates, and the legislature has not

RAMTAPO WATER CO. v. NEW YORK.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

authorized those lands to be devoted to "some other
public use."
Numerous authorities sustain these contentions.
Mr. Louis C. White, with whom Mr. Frank L. Polk was
on the brief, for appellees:
All parties to the suit are citizens of the State of New
York, and unless the bill of complaint shows on its face
some question arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States, the court below was without jurisdiction and the appeal was properly dismissed.
The bill of complaint shows on its face that the plaintiff
had no contract, the obligation of -which was impaired,
nor any property of which it was deprived, by the legislation and acts complained of.
Chapter 724 of the Laws of 1905 makes ample provision
for the ascertainment and payment of compensation to
every owner or person interested in any land taken by the
City of New York under that act.
The decree should be affirmed and the certified question
answered in the negative.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity to restrain the City of New York
and the Board of Water Supply from proceeding further
with the enterprise upon which they already had spent
over one hundred and twenty-nine million of dollars in
order to provide the city with a supply of water. The
ground is as follows:
The plaintiff (appellant) originally was incorporated
under a general act, in 1887, for the purpose of storing
and supplying water for mining, domestic, manufacturing,
municipal and agricultural purposes, to cities, other corporations, and persons. By virtue of other statutes it
had the right to acquire title to land and water for its

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

corporate purposes in the manner specified by the General
Railroad Act, ch. 140, Laws of 1850; and it spent money,
had surveys made, filed some maps, and acquired options
for the -purchase of real estate in pursuance of the ends
for which it was formed.
. In 1890 the laws under which the plaintiff was incorporated were repealed, but thereafter ch. 985 of the Laws
of 1895 reiterated the grant of the powers specified in the
charter and authorized the corporation to acquire '"in the
same manner specified and required in' the above mentioned Railroad Act 'such lands and waters along the
watershed of the Ramapo, and along such other watersheds and their tributaries, as may be suitable for the
purpose of accumulating and storing the waters thereof.'
The corporation is to make a map of the route adopted and
the land to be taken and file the same in the office of the
Clerk of the County through which, the route runs or in
which the land is situate. It is to give written notice to
all occupants of lands so designated and the occupants
and owners are given time to apply for the appointment
of commissioners, by a petition stAting the objections to
the route designated and the route to which it is proposed
to. alter the same, with elaborate provisions for w1otice and
hearing and appeal to the Supreme Court, which 'may
affirm the route proposed by the corporation or may
adopt that proposed by the petitioner.' Under this act
the, corporation filed maps covering substantially the
whole of the drainage areas or watersheds of the Esopus,
Catskill, Schoharie, and Rondout creeks, about a thousand
square miles (being the same lands that the City now has
taken), acquired options for purchase of land, and spent
large sums.
. Before this time, it is alleged, the courts of New York
had declared that the filing of maps under the Railroad
Law of New York gave to the corporation filing thebn a
vested right to the exclusive use of the lands covered by

RAMAPO WATER CO. v. NEW YORK.
236 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the maps. The plaintiff in 1898 made an offer to the City
of New York to furnish it with water from the region
in question, but, pending investigation by the City, in
1901 the act of 1895 giving the plaintiff its rights was
repealed by an act alleged to be unconstitutional and void.
In 1905 the City was empowered itself to acquire new water supplies, machinery was provided to that end, and the
City has gone ahead as we have stated, without regard to
the plaintiff's alleged rights. The plaintiff sets, up that
the laws under which the City acts impair the obligation
of contracts between it and the State and take its property
without due process of law, contrary to Article I, ยง 10,
and the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of
the United States. An answer was filed, but the defendants also moved to dismiss for want of jurisdiction on the
ground that all the parties were citizens of New York
and that the case involved no question under the Constitution. The District Court, being of opinion that the bill
disclosed no such rights as the plaintiff claimed and therefore showed no real constitutional ground, dismissed the
bill.
The plaintiff's argument, while admitting that it must
appear that there is a substantial question under the
Constitution, and that the formal averment of such a
question is not enough, makes a rather useless attack
upon the application of that principle in Underground
Railroad v. New York, 193 U. S. 416. If it is apparent
that the bill is groundless, it does not matter very much
whether the dismissal purports to be for want of jurisdiction or on the merits. . But we are of opinion that the
groundlessness of the bill is so obvious that it fairly may
be said that no substantial constitutional question appears.
The charter of the company of course could be repealed
without impairing the obligation of a contract as the right
was reserved, as usual, in the constitution of the State.
Calder v. Michigan, 218 U. S. 591. The only matter de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1914.
Opinion of the Court.

236 U. S.

serving a word is the claim that .by filing the maps the
corporation gained rights that survive. As to that, in the
first place it would require stronger language than any
that is found in the act of 1895 to lead us to believe that
the legislature meant that the rights conferred with regard
to routes should be extended over any or all of the watersheds in the State of which the plaintiff might see fit to
file a map. The direction to file a map of the route
adopted and the land to be taken, coupled with the other
provisions that we have recited, appears to us to have in
view the route and the land needed for the route, and only
that, not the thousand square miles that the plaintiff
claims. In the next place the plaintiff had given no notice
to anybody and notice to occupants of the land is a condition to the existence of any right. And finally it is held
in New York and affirmed by this court, that no such
right even for the route of a railroad is created as against
the State by the filing of a map. People v. Adirondack Ry.,
160N. Y. 225, 242-247; 176 U. S. 335, 346. Underground
R. R. v. New York, 193 U. S. 416, 428.
We appreciate the argument that although the corporation may have had no lien on the land or right as
against the sovereign power, it had a right as against all
subordinate bodies to exclude them from the lands of its
choice, that the decisions had declared this right to be
vested and indestructible except by legitimate exercise
of the power of eminent domain, that it had spent money
and taken action on the faith of them, and that a later
decision cannot take away the right. But the cases relied
upon'are too remote for the confident application of that
doctrine if there were no other objections to it. They
concern the effect of filing a map of a railroad route and
only when coupled with notice to the landowners concerned. We should be more inclined to follow Sauer v.
New York, 206 U. S. 536. Moore-Mansfield Construction
Co. v. Electrical Installation Co., 234 U. S. 619, 626. Wil-

NOR. PAC. RY. v. NORTH DAKOTA.
236 U. S.

Syllabus.

loughby v. Chicago, 235 U. S. 45. But as we have said,
nothing short of a specific decision of the Court of Appeals
would make us believe that the act of 1895 gave to the
plaintiff, without notice to landowners or other preliminary, a vested right, seemingly unlimited in time, to
exclude the rest of the world from whatever watersheds
it chose, simply by filing a map.
Decree affirmed.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
STATE OF NORTH DAKOTA ON RELATION OF
McCUE, ATTORNEY GENERAL.
MINNEAPOLIS, ST. PAUL & SAULT STE. MARIE
RAILWAY COMPANY v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

Nos. 420, 421.

Argued October 19, 20, 1914.-Decided March 8, 1915.

This court takes the facts as found by the state court as established
unless
(1) A Federal right has been denied as the result of a finding shown
by the record to be unsupported by evidence or
(2) A conclusion of law as to a Federal right and a finding of fact
are so commingled as to make it necessary to analyze the latter.
Neither of those conditions exist in this case.
Railroad property is private property devoted to public use and the
State has a broad field for the exercise of its discretion in prescribing
reasonable rates for common carriers within its jurisdiction.
It is not necessary there should be uniform rates or the same percentage of profits on every sort of business; there is room for reasonable classification.
Despite this range of permissible action the State has no arbitrary
power over rates; the devotion of the carrier's property to public use
is qualified by the carrier's right to a reasonable reward; the State

