318

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

CITY OF HOUSTON v. SOUTHWESTERN BELL
TELEPHONE COMPANY.
SOUTHWESTERN BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY
v. CITY OF HOUSTON.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Nos. 219, 220. Argued April 24, 25, 1922..-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. The evidence establishes that the local telephone rate fixed by the
appellant city was confiscatory. Pp. 321, 322.
2. In a suit by a local telephone company to restrain enforcement of
an ordinance rate as confiscatory, there was evidence that the instruments used by the plaintiff were leased by it from another corporation which owned substantially all of its stock and also owned
a large majority of the stock of a third corporation from which
the plaintiff obtained much of its equipment and supplies, and that
the charges paid by the plaintiff in return were reasonable and
less than such services and supplies could be obtained for from
other sources. Held, that the plaintiff was not obliged to prove
the profits made by the two other companies, generally or in the
business thus done with the plaintiff. P. 323.
3. A telephone company, by acceptance of a city ordinance approving
its purchase of and merger with another company and containing
an agreement on its part to measure its rates by a fair return upon
its capital actually invested in the plant purchased, is not estopped
from insisting that they shall be based upon the fair value of the
property useful and used at the time of inquiry, when the ordinance
is void as to the city, under the state constitution, and therefore
lacks mutuality as betwebn the parties. P. 324.
4. Whether going-concern value should be considered in determining
the base for fixing the rates of a public service corporation depends
on the financial history of the corporation. P. 325. Galveston
Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388.
5. An assignment of error which involves careful study of a voluminous record will not be considered if the provisions of Equity Rule
75, that evidence be stated in simple, condensed form, and of Rule
21 of this court, that briefs refer to the pages of the record relied
on, have not been properly complied with. P. 325.
268 Fed. 878, affirmed.

HOUSTON v. SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO.
318.

319

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL and cross appeal from a decree of the District
Court enjoining a city from enforcing a rate fixed by
ordinance for a telephone company.
Mr. W. J. Howard and Mr. Sewall Myer,
with whom

Mr. A. E. Amerman was on the briefs, for the City of
Houston.
Mr. C. Al. Bracelen and Mr. Nelson Phillips, with
whom Mr. W. H. Duls and Mr. N. T. Guernsey were on
the brief, for Southwestern Bell Telephone Co.
MR. JusTIcE CLARKD delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross appeals in a suit to restrain the enforcement of an ordinance enacted by the City of Houston,
Texas (hereinafter referred to as the City), prescribing
rates for telephone service, based upon the claim that
the rates are confiscatory.
The master to whom the case was referred found that
the rates were clearly confiscatory and the District Court,
while modifying his findings in some respects, confirmed
his report and in its decree enjoined the enforcement of
the ordinance. A federal constitutional question being
involved a direct appeal brings the case to this court for
review.
The Constitution of Texas, adopted in 1876, ยง 17, Article I, provides:
"No irrevocable or uncontrollable grant of special
privileges or immunities shall be made; but all privileges
and franchises granted by the legislature, or created under
its authority, shall be subject to the control thereof."
It, has been definitely decided that, while municipal
corporations in Texas, as agencies of the State, may have
the power to prescribe rates for public service corporations, this provision of the constitution prohibits their
making contracts for the future which may not be modified at any time by appropriate action of the municipal-

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ity. San Antonio Traction Co. v. Altgelt, 200 U. S. 304;
San Antonio v. San Antonio Public Service Co., 255 U. S.
547, and Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. Chariton, 255
U. S. 539.
The ordinance here involved was passed in 1909 and
therefore this state of the law would remove all question
of contract from the case, if it were not that in 1915 the
appellee in No. 219, the Southwestern Bell Telephone
Company (hereinafter referred to as the Company), by
purchase and merger acquired all of the property of a
local corporation, the "Houston Home Telephone Company," and duly accepted an ordinance by which the City
approved the merger. This ordinance contained the provision that the Company "agrees that it will not increase
rates as at present charged by it for service in the City
of Houston, unless it appears upon a satisfactory showing . . . that there exists a necessity for an increase ot
charges, in order that the said company may earn a fair
return upon its capital actually invested in the Houston
plant."
It is now contended by the City that the acceptance of
this ordinance estops the Company from asserting that
the value of its plant, as of the date of the inquiry, and
not the cost of it-the "capital actually invested ",-shall
be the basis for rate-making, but the Company contends
that the quoted provision of the state constitution rendered the City incapable of contracting by such an ordinance and that therefore it is void and not binding on
either party.
The master, treating the merger ordinance as void, determined the value of the property, used and useful in
the operations of the Company, on the basis of its value
at the time of the taking of the testimony in 1919, to be
$6,000,000; that the Company's total revenues for 1919,
computed on the ordinance rates, amounted to $908,258,
and that its total expenses were $1,214,462, thus showing

HOUSTON v. SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO.
318.

321

Opinion of the Court.

a net loss to the Company for the year of $306,204, without making any allowance for interest upon the investment.
Upon exceptions to the report of the master, the District Court decided that the Company was bound by the
merger ordinance of 1915 to accept the cost of its plant,
as distinguished from its value at the time of the inquiry,
as the basis for rate-making, and thereupon reduced the
valuation of the Company's property to $4,571,567. The
court also reduced the allowance of "reserve for annual
depreciation ", as found by the master, from $348,150 to
$289,380. After making these and some other deductions
the court, nevertheless, found that the operating expenses
of the Company, not making any allowance for return on
the investment, exceeded the income during 1919 by the
sum of $247,434. We fully agree with the District Court
that there is a clear preponderance of the evidence in
favor of the conclusion that the ordinance rate was confiscatory, and the decree of the court will, therefore, be
affirmed.
The decree enjoining the City from enforcing the rate
ordinance provides, that the City shall have the right to
apply for a modification of it whenever it shall be made to
appear that, by reason of change of circumstances or conditions, the rates prescribed by the ordinance (of 1909)
are sufficient to yield a fair return upon the capital of the
Company actually invested, and also that the decree is
without prejudice to the rights of the City to exercise its
rate-making power within constitutional limits. This
form of decree and the change in business conditions since
it was entered render it so probable that there will be
further controversy as to what are reasonable rates for
telephone service in the City, in which it will be important
to determine what the legal basis is for determining the
value of the Company's property, that we think it proper
to consider several of the assignments of error presented

322

OCTOBER TERM, i921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

by the appeal and cross appeal, although our conclusions
with respect to them will not modify the result we have
stated of this review.
While the City's assignmeiits of error are numerous, in
the brief they are frankly limited to three:
First: That the division of receipts derived by the Company from long distance tolls, approved by the court, was
not a fair or adequate one.
The Company not only operated the Houston local exchange but it owned and operated long distance toll lines,
connecting the local exchange with various towns and
cities in Texas and several other States. The property
used in the long distance service, which was not also used
in the local service, was not included in valuing the investment for determining local rates, but, as the local
lines were used to the extent of permitting a subscriber
to connect from his home or office station with the long
distance lines through the long distance station, the Company, in practice, and for the purposes of this suit, credited the local exchange with 25% of the long-distance toll
revenues received from calls originating in Houston as
compensation for the use made of the local plant in rendering long distance service. The City contends that this
allowance is not enough, but that it should be at least
60%. Both the court and the master found: that the proportion so credited from long distance tolls was greater
than that allowed to any one of eight independent exchanges in the State of Texas by independent long-distance toll lines with which they were connected; that the
amount is larger than that paid by the Company to over
300 independent exchanges with which it has like connections; and that the allowance is one customarily approved
by state commissions throughout the country. Compared with the formidable and very convincing evidence
on which these conclusions rest, the testimony introduced
by the City is meager and unsatisfactory, and we agree

HOUSTON v. SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. 323
318.

Opinion of the Court.

with the District Court that upon the record before us
the allowance was reasonably sufficient.
Second and Third: The American Telephone & Telegraph Company owns substantially all of the stock of the
Company and a large majority of the stock of the Western Electric Company. From the American Telephone &
Telegraph Company the Company leases its instruments
and secures their maintenance and renewal and from the
Western Electric Company it obtains the greater part of
its equipment and supplies used in operating its local exchange. It is contended by the City that no fair disclosure was made of the profits made by the furnishing companies on the instruments and on the material and supplies so furnished and that, for this unique reason, the
Company should not be heard in a court of equity and the
case should be dismissed. It is true that the Company
did not introduce proof to show what the profits of the
two companies were, either upon the business done with
it or on their entire business, but it did introduce much
evidence tending to show that the charge made and allowed for the services rendered and supplies furnished by
them was reasonable and less than the same could be obtained for from other sources. Under the circumstances
disclosed in the evidence, the fact that the American Telephone & Telegraph Company controlled the Company
and the Western Electric Company by stock ownership is
not important beyond requiring close scrutiny of their
dealings to prevent imposition upon the community
served by the Company, but the court recognized and applied this rule. Here again, the evidence introduced by
the City was meager and indefinite, while that of the Company was exceptionally full and complete, and both contentions must be denied.
In its cross appeal the Company assigns as error the
holding of the District Court that the merger ordinance of

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

1915 obliges the Company to accept the cost of its physical
plant as the basis for rate-making, instead of the usual
basis, the value, at the time of the inquiry, of the property
used and useful in operating the plant. (Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 52; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246
U. S. 178). The asserted reason for this contention is that
the merger ordinance of 1915 and the acceptance of it by
the Company did not constitute a contract binding upon
either the City or the Company, but that, though contractual in form, it was void under the provisions of the
state constitution and the decisions cited, supra. In its
answer the City avers that it did not and could not, by
that ordinance or otherwise, limit its rate-making power
for the future. But, notwithstanding this agreement of
the parties that the merger ordinance was void, the court
held that the Company, having accepted and acted upon
it, was estopped to claim that it was not bound by its
terms. Misrepresentation not being involved, mutuality
was necessary to any estoppel growing out 'f this transaction, and while thus asserting that the ordinance is void as
to itself the City may not successfully assert that its adversary is bound by the acceptance of it. We think that
neither party was bound by the ordinance and the acceptance of it, that the District Court fell into error, and
that the proper base for rate-making in the case is the fair
value of the property, useful and used by the Company,
at the time of the inquiry.
The master recognized "going concern value" as an element to be taken into consideration in determining the
value of the Company's property and for this allowed
$765,000, which was included in the value which he fixed
upon the plant. The court, however, changing the base
from the value of the property to the cost of it, concluded
that under the agreement in the merger ordinance no such
allowance should be made, but stated, incidentally, in

HOUSTON v. SOUTHWESTERN TEL. CO. 325
318.

Opinion of the Court.

its opinion, that if it had made such an allowance it would
not have been in excess of one-half the amount allowed
by the master. 'To thus reject going concern value is assigned as error by the Company.
Whether going concern value should be considered and
allowed at all in determining the base for rate making,
and if allowed what the amount of it should be, depends
upon the financial history of the Company (Galveston
Electric Co. v. Galveston, 258 U. S. 388), and it is impossible for us to determine whether the requisite history for
deciding this question is to be found in the three large
volumes of the transcript of the record of the case, containing 1664 pages, without reading the whole of it.
Equity Rule No. 75 provides that evidence to be included in the -record shall not be set forth in full but shall
be stated in a simple and condensed form, and Rule 21 of
this court provides that briefs of the argument shall be
filed in each case, with references to the pages of the
record and the authorities relied upon in support of each
point. The first of these rules has been wholly ignored in
the printing of this record and the second has been so
neglected in the preparation of the briefs that it is impossible for the court to consider this question except by itself
reading and briefing the voluminous record. This we cannot consent to do, and for the reason that the record and
briefs are not prepared in conformity with the rules prescribed by this court, we decline to consider this assignment of error.
The other questions argued in the briefs must necessarily be presented so differently on any further hearing
of the issues involved that discussion of them here would
be profitless. The decree of the District Court must be
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

