SANTA FE PAC. R. R. CO. v. FALL.
Counsel for Parties.

SANTA FE PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.
FALL, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
APPEALS FROM THE COU T OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

Nos. 108, 109. Argued January 24, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
The Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1810, ยง 1, 33 Stat. 556, provided that
sections of land in New Mexico granted the Atlantic & Pacific
Railroad Company might, in specified circumstances, be relinquished at the request of the Secretary of the Interior by the
grantee or its successors, and entitled them to select in lieu, and
have patented, "other sections of vacant public land of equal
quality in said Territory, as may be agreed upon with the Secretary of the Interior ".

Held,--

(1) That a relinquishment of lands at the Secretary's request
effected a contract binding the Government to convey such vacant
lands within the Territory as the company should select, provided only they were of equal quality with the lands relinquished.
P. 199.
(2) That the equality must be determined according to the conditions existing at the time of selection. P. 200.
(3) That where the Secretary undertook to cancel selections because
of higher values of the selected lands, revealed by investigations
made long after the selections, it was an abuse of his discretion
under the act which should be restrained. P. 199.
267 Fed. 653, 656; 50 App. D. C. 95, 98, reversed.
APPEALS from deprees of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia which affirmed decrees of the Supreme Court of the District, dismissing appellant's bills
to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior from canceling
selections of public land.

Mr. F. W. Clements, with whom Mr. Alexander Britton
was on the briefs, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood
were on the briefs, for appellee.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

MR. JusTIcE, HOLM Es delivered the opinion of the court.

These are two bills in equity brought in respect of different parcels of land but seeking the same kind of relief
against the Secretary of the Interior, and raising the same
question of law. The facts are simple. Under the land
grant to its predecessor, the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad
Company, the Santa Fe Pacific Railroad Company was
the owner of coal lands in New Mexico. By the Act of
April 28, 1904, c. 1810, ยง 1, 33 Stat. 556, the first named
road and its successors "may, when requested by the
Secretary of the Interior so to do, relinquish or deed, as
may be proper, to the United States," any sections of their
land grant in New Mexico any portion of which was and
had been occupied by a settler as a homestead for not less
than twenty-five years; "and shall then be entitled to
select in lieu thereof, and to have patented other sections
of vacant public land of equal quality in said Territory, as
may be agreed upon with the Secretary of the Interior."
Under this act at the request of the Secretary of the Interior the Railroad Company relinquished specified tracts of
coal land, and on May 1, 1911, selected other tracts also of
coal land. After the selections, questions were raised as
to the value of the selected lands, and ultimately, after
some years, the selections were rejected on the ground of
the greater value of the latter lands as shown by investigations since the choice. Thereupon thQ Railroad Company
brought these bills to enjoin the SecFetary of the Interior
from canceling its selections and from taking further
action except to issue patents to the Company for the
selected lands. The bills were dismissed on motion by the
Courts below. 50 App. D. C. 95, 98; 267 Fed. 653, 656.
The Government argues that there was no jurisdiction
over the bills because the question whether the lands
selected were of the same quality as those relinquished
rested wholly in the judgment of the Secretary. But the

SANTA FE PAC. R. R. CO. v. FALL.
197.

Opinion of the Court.

position of the Railroad Company is that the Secretary
went beyond the powers conferred upon him by the statute when he took into account facts not known at the
time of the selection, and we are of opinion that the Company is entitled to bring that question into court.
We are of opinion also that the Company's position is
right. At first sight the words of the statute entitling
the Company to have patented other sections of equal
quality "as may be agreed upon with the Secretary of
the Interior" might be taken to sustain the decision below, but upon consideration they seem to us not to have
that effect. The moment that lands were relinquished
at the request of the Secretary a contract was made and
the Government was bound to convey to the Company
such vacant lands within the Territory as the Company
should select provided only that they were of equal quality. In theory of law the obligation was immediate when
the selection was made, if it complied with the condition.
It is true that the Secretary had to be satisfied upon that
point, but his discretion was not arbitrary; it went only
to the quality of the lands. If, as Chief Justice Shaw
put it, a piepoudre Court could have been summoned and
the matter determined forthwith, the Secretary would
have been bound to act on the facts as they then appeared
and could not have elected to wait for better days. At
that time, May 1, 1911, the only relevant classification
in the statutes, we believe, was of coal lands within fifteen
miles of a railroad, valued at not less than twenty dollars
per acre, and those more than fifteen miles from one,
valued at not less than ten dollars per acre. Rev. Stats.,
ยง 2347. The Department through the Geological Survey
had classified further and had valued the products in all
the lands concerned at not less than twenty dollars per
acre. These were all the elements for decision when the
selection was made and if the Secretary had been required
to proceed at once, as the statute evidently contemplated

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

that he would, ยง 2, he would have been bound to agree
to the Company's choice. Indeed in the first case he did
agree to it, and did not attempt to revoke his decision
until more than two years later on the ground of subsequently discovered facts. It is established in the parallel
cases of Payne v. Central PacificRy. Co., 255 U. S. 228;
Payne v. New Mexico, 255 U. S. 367, and Wyoming v.
United States, 255 U. S. 489, 496, that the validity of the
selection must be determined according to the conditions
existing at the time when it was made. These decisions
were later than that in the Court below and show without
the need of further argument that the decrees must be
reversed.
Decrees reversed.
FEDERAL BASEBALL CLUB OF BALTIMORE, INC.

v. NATIONAL LEAGUE OF PROFESSIONAL
BASEBALL CLUBS, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUIMBIA.
No. 204. Argued April 19, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. The business of providing public baseball games for profit between
clubs of professional baseball players in a league and between clubs
of rival leagues, although necessarily involving the constantly repeated traveling of the players from one State to another, provided
for, controlled and disciplined by the organizations employing them,
is not interstate commerce. P. 208.
2. Held that an action for triple damages under the Anti-Trust Acts
could not be maintained, by a baseball club against baseball leagues
and their constituent clubs, joined with individuals, for an alleged
conspiracy to monopolize the baseball business resulting injuriously
to the plaintiff. P. 209.
269 Fed. 681; 50 App. D. C. 165, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia reversing a judgment for triple
damages uilder the Anti-Trust Acts recovered by the

