336

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

Claughry, 183 U. S. 365, 380, 381; MuUan v. United

States, 212 U. S. 516, 520; Collins v. McDonald, 258
U. S. 416.
"If it were otherwise, the civil courts would virtually
administer the rules and articles of war, irrespective of
those to whom that duty and obligation has been confided
by the laws of the United States, from whose decisions no
appeal or jurisdiction of any kind has been given to the
civil magistrate or civil courts." Dynes v. Hoover, 20
How. 65, 82.
It results that, because the action of the President,
given effect by the order of the Secretary of War, was in
full compliance with the act of Congress, and also because
the Supreme Court did not have jurisdiction to order the
writ of mandamus prayed for, the judgment of the Court
of Appeals reversing the judgment of that court must be
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES EX REL. CREARY v. WEEKS,
SECRETARY OF WAR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.
No. 725.

Argued April 20, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. French v. Weeks, ante, 326, followed, to the effect that § 24b of
the Army Reorganization Act does not require personal and judicial action on the part of the President precedent to the final
classification of an army officer as one to be retired or discharged
from the Army. P. 342.
2. Section 24b of the Army Reorganization Act does not violate due
process of law in not affording an officer who, after due hearing
before a Court of Inquiry, has been classified by the Board of
Final Classification as one who should not be retained in the
service, a notice and a further hearing before the further determination, by another board, of the question whether the classification was due to his neglect, misconduct or avoidable habits, in-

CREARY v. WEEKS.
336.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

volving, if affirmative, his discharge from the Army or, if negative,
his placement on the retired list at diminished pay. P. 343.
3. Proceedings of lawfully constituted military tribunals, acting
within the scope of their lawful authority, with jurisdiction over
the person and subject-matter involved, cannot be reviewed or set
aside by the civil courts by mandamus or otherwise. P. 344.
277 Fed. 594, affirmed.

EunoR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, which reversed a judgment of the
Supreme Court granting the writ of mandamus against
the present defendant in error and dismissed the proceeding.
Mr. Samuel T. Ansell and Mr. Charles Pope Caldwell,
with whom Mr. Edward S. Bailey was on the brief, for
plaintiff in error. The following is a summary of their
argument in this and the next preceding case, ante, 326:
I. The Secretary of War's "approval" of the final
classification of these officers, and of the Honest and
Faithful Board's proceedings in the case of Colonel
Creary was without authority of law and null and void.
(1) The law requires Presidential review and action.
(a) It is held throughout and by all that the law requires the President to review the proceedings of the
Classification Board and of the Honest and Faithful
Board. The President was of that opinion; but misconceiving, as we think, the judicial character of his duty, he
undertook to make a general delegation of it in all cases
to the Secretary of War. The Supreme Court and the
Court of Appeals also agreed as to the necessity of Presidential action but differed as to whether it was judicial
or administrative in character.
(b) The statute clearly imposes the duty of Presidential review. It designates a Court of Inquiry and Military Boards to hear and determine the question of classification and the causes therefor, and specifically provides

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

that the President shall be the convening authority.
Courts of Inquiry and Military Boards are of such a
nature that their proceedings must necessarily be reviewed by the authority convening them. Winthrop's
Military Law and Precedents, pp. 795-822. The statute
makes express reference to the President's power of
revision.
The then President seems to have had no doubt that
he was the reviewing authority in all cases; and such is
the view of the present President, as indicated by the
regulations established by him.
(2) The proceedings themselves are judicial in character, and so, necessarily, must be the Presidential review of
them. That review therefore can not be delegated.
Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 543; United States v.
Page, 137 U. S. 673; United States v. Fletcher, 148
U. S. 84.
(a) The Presidential review is inherently judicial.
The statute provides for the removal of officers of the
Army. for causes specified which affect their good name,
standing, and honor. If the officer is found inefficient,
he can no longer remain on the. active list, and if his
inefficiency is found to be due to his own misconduct,
neglect, or avoidable habits, then he is to be separated
from the Army absolutely, discharged "without honor"
and without pay. Where such is the case, in accordance
with a fundamental principle of our law, the proceedings
are judicial. Runkle v. United States, 122 U. S. 542;
Reagan v. United States, 182 U. S. 419, 425; Shurtleff v.
United States, 189 U. S. 311-314; Kalbfus v. Siddons, 42
App. D. C. 310, 318.
Reaves v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S. 296, and Street v. United
States, 133 U.S. 299, relied upon by counsel on the other
side, support him at no point, but proceed in recognition
of the principles of law relied upon by us. The statute
which constituted the law of the case in Reaves v. Ains-

CREARY v. WEEKS.
336.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

worth was one which authorized the President to establish
a system of examination for promotion, not removal from
office for specified cause. That statute placed the entire
power in the hands of the President; he could establish
any system he pleased, without restriction. The system
which by regulation he did establish kept the power of
final review over the examining boards in his own hands
and this fact is emphasized in the opinion of the court.
That statute, for that purpose, gave unlimited power to
the President; the present statute does nothing of the
kind, but specifies the causes of removal, and endows
boards of a judicial character with power to determine
such causes after hearing. These boards must grant the
hearing and keep within their jurisdiction.
In the Street Case, which arose under a statute the
primary purpose of which was to reduce the Army (by
honorable discharge and by discharge for cause without
honor), the Department proceeded first to eliminate an
officer for cause under § 11 of the act. That section
expressly required a hearing for such elimination. The
Department, finding it could not get the witnesses, abandoned the hearing for cause and proceeded under § 12,
which authorized the Department to create a list of
supernumerary officers (officers who were not needed in
the largely reduced Army), and honorably discharged
such supernumeraries. This was not a removal for cause,
but a method of muster-out of a large number of officers
no longer needed, the war being over. All that the court
held in that case was that the authorities had the right,
of course, to withdraw the charges of removal for cause
and proceed under the honorable muster-out section.
(b) That Congress legislated with this principle in
view and contemplated proceedings of a judicial character
is indicated also by the judicial character of the agencies
designated for the purpose.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

(c) That Congress intended that every officer subjected
to removal proceedings should have a full and fair hearing is clearly shown by the legislative history of said
section. Committee Reports, No. 400, 66th Cong., 2d
sess.; 59 Cong. Rea., No. 80, pp. 4626, 4629; id., No. 82,
pp. 4712-4724.
II. The proceedings of the Honest and Faithful Board,
had without giving to Colonel Creary notice and opportunity to be heard, are null and void. Reagan v. United
States, 182 U. S. 419; Shurtleff v. United States, 189 U. S.
311; Kalbfus v. Siddons, 42 App. D. C. 310. In removal
proceedings for cause an officdr must be given a hearing.
Ekern v. McGovern, 154 Wisconsin, 157; Dullam v.
Willson, 53 Mich. 392; Page v. Hardin, 8 B. Mon. 648;
Shumann v. McCartney, 34 App. Div. 19, 53 N. Y. S.
1047; Kasschan v. Police Comm., 155 N. Y. 40; State ex
rel. Gill v. Watertown, 9 Wis. 254; Randall v. State, 16 Wis.
340; Larkin v. Noonan, 19 Wis. 82; Benson v. People,
10 Colo. App. 179; Ham v. Board of Police of Boston,
142 Mass. 90; Metevier v. St. Louis, 90 Mo. 19; Peck v.
Commissioner of Brooklyn, 106 N. Y. 65; Attorney General v. Hogan, 64 Ohik St. 532; Biggs v. McBride, 17
Ore. 640; Field v. Commonwealth, 32 Pa. St. 478; Commonwealth v. Slifer, 25 Pa. St. 34; Hallgren v. Campbell,
82 Mich. 255.
III. The validity of the orders for retirement and discharge depends upon the validity of the proceedings had
under § 24b, for it was by virtue of the authority of that
section that the orders were issued. The suggestion that
the orders in both cases might be sustained by the 118th
Article of War is met by the fact they were not made
under that authority.
IV. The court below held, inconsistently, that although
Colonel Creary was entitled to a hearing before the
Honest and Faithful Board, which is to the effect that
the proceedings of that board were judicial in character,

CREARY v. WEEKS.
336.

Opinion of the Court.

the duty of review imposed upon the President was nevertheless administrative and delegable to the Secretary of
War.
V. The Secretary of War, having unlawfully dispossessed these officers of their offices, mandamus is the
proper remedy. Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88; Kalbfus v.
Siddons, 42 App. D. C. 310; Garfield v. Spalding, 32 App.
D. C. 153; Moyer v. Baldwin, 77 Oh. St. 532; Chicago v.
People, 210 Ill. 84; Metzker v. Neally, 41 Kans. 122;
Pratt v. Police and Fire Commissioner, 15 Utah, 1; Miles
v. Stevenson, 80 Md. 358; Field v. Malster, 88 Md. 691;
Percivalv. Cram; 50 App. Div. 380; Sugden v. Partridge,
174 N. Y. 87; Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 U. S. 249.
Mr. SolicitorGeneralBeck and Mr. FrederickM. Brown
for dfendant in error.
Mr. Daniel Wilkinson Iddings, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curim.
MR. JUsTICE CIAImi delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is in most respects so like No. 724, United
States ex rel. French v. Weeks, ante, 326, that the two
were argued and submitted together.
.The relator herein was a Colonel in the Army and was
discharged on November 17, 1920, "by direction of the
President" on order of the Secretary of War, under the
provisions of § 24b of the Army Reorganization Act (41
Stat. 759, 773). In his petition he prays, as did Colonel
French in the other case, for a writ of mandamus commanding the Secretary of War to vacate the order for his
discharge and to restore him to the status of Colonel in
the Army, which he had held before the order.
The defendant answered the petition, a demurrer to the
answer was sustained, and the defendant not desiring to

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

plead further, the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia granted the writ of mandamus as prayed for. On
error the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia
reversed the judgment of the Supreme Court and the case
is here for construction of the act of Congress involved.
In addition to the contention that § 24b of the Army
Reorganization Act required personal and judicial action
on the part of the President, this day disposed of in No.
724, only one other question is argued in this case, viz:
Did the failure to give the relator notice of the time and
place of the meeting of the Honest and Faithful Board
which considered his case, with an opportunity to be heard
in his own behalf, so deny to him due process of law as
to render void the action resulting in his discharge?
We shall not repeat the discussion of § 24b which led to
our conclusion in No. 724, but we shall here confine ourselves to the additional question, as we have stated it,
presented by this record.
When Colonel Creary was notified that he had been
placed in Class B, as an officer "who should not be retained in the service," he requested a Court of Inquiry,
which was thereupon convened, and it is averred in the
answer and admitted by the demurrer that "by and before said Board he was given full and free opportunity to
present testimony of himself and others in his behalf and
to be heard fully, of which opportunities he availed himself so far as he desired."
The record of the Court of Inquiry was forwarded, as
provided for by § 24b, to the Board of Final Classification,
and that Board, without notice to the relator, reconsidered his case, but by its final finding retained him in Class
B. Thereupon, again without notice to relator, his case
went to the Honest and Faithful Board, which finally
classified him in Class B for "causes due to his neglect,
misconduct, and avoidable habits," and under the terms of
the statute he was discharged from the Army.

CREARY v. WEEKS.
336.

343

Opinion of the Court.

Thus is presented for decision the question whether the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment required that
the relator should be given an opportunity to be heard
before the finding was made by the board which required
his discharge from the Army.
The power given to Congress by the Constitution to
raise and equip armies and to make regulations for the
government of the land and naval forces of the country
(Art. I, § 8) is as plenary and specific as that given for the
organization and conduct of civil affairs; military tribunals
are as necessary to secure subordination and discipline in
the Army as courts are to maintain law and order in civil
life; and the experience of our Government for now more
than a century and a quarter, and of the English Government for a century more, proves that a much more expeditious procedure is necessary in military than is
thought tolerable in civil affairs (2 Stat. 359; Dynes v.
Hoover, 20 How. 65). It is difficult to imagine any
process of government more distinctively administrative
in its nature and less adapted to be dealt with by the
processes of civil courts than the classification and reduction in number of the officers of the Army, provided for
in § 24b. In its nature it belongs to the executive and not
to the judicial branch of the Government.
In the present case it is admitted that the relator was
given full opportinity to -be heard and that -he was heard
by the Court of Inquiry, and this is the only one of the
four tribunals which dealt with his case which the act of
Congress requires shall give him a hearing. The various
boards provided for, each certainly had jurisdiction over
the person of the relator as an army officer and over the
subject of inquiry, under the terms of the act of Congress,
and also because the right dealt with was distinctly military in its nature, affecting the status in the Army of a
soldier, and it is entirely clear that the boards which acted
on his case did not exceed the powers conferred upon

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

them. Such being the case, the Supreme Court of the
District was without power to review or in any manner
control the conduct of the boards or the result of their
action. Dynes v. Hoover, 20 How. 65, 82; Johnson v.
Sayre, 158 U. S.109; Carterv. McClaughry, 183 U. S. 365,
380; Mullan v. United States, 212 U. S. 516; Reaves v.
Ainsworth, 219-U. S. 296, 304. Without pursuing the subject further it is sufficient to repeat what was said by this
court in Reaves v. Ainsworth, 219 U. S. 296, 304: "To
those in the military or naval service of the United States
the military law is due process. The decision, therefore,
of a military tribunal acting within the scope of its lawful
powers cannot be reviewed or set aside by the courts."
It results that, because the action of the President,
given effect by the order of the Secretary of War, was in
full compliance with the act of Congress, and also because
the Supreme Court did not have jurisdiction to order the
writ of mandamus prayed for, the judgment of the Court
of Appeals reversing the judgment of that court must be
Affirmed.
UNITED MINE WORKERS OF AMERICA ET AL. v.
CORONADO COAL COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 31. Argued October 15, 1920; restored to docket for reargument
January 3, 1922; reargued March 22, 23, 1922.-Decided June 5,
1922.
1. In view of the Conformity Act and the law of Arkansas respecting
consolidation of causes, held, that the District Court did not abuse
its discretion in permitting several allied corporations to be joined
as plaintiffs in an action prosecuted by their receiver to recover
triple damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act for the destruction
of their properties and business committed in an alleged conspiracy
to restrain interstate commerce. P. 382.

