214

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

tioned it might be held that some discretion was reserved
to the company. For here the language is "the company
will . . . loan amounts within the limits of the cash
surrender value ", &c., whereas there it was "cash loans
can be obtained." On this distinction the Missouri court
seems to have held that as soon as the application was delivered to a representative of the company in Missouri
the offer in the policy was accepted and the new contract
complete, and therefore subject to Missouri law. If, however, the application should be regarded as only an offer
the effective acceptance of it did not take place until the
check was delivered to Blees, which again was in Missouri
where he lived. In whichever way regarded the facts
lead to the same conclusion, and although the circumstances may present some temptation to seek a different
one by ingenuity, the Constitution and the first principles
of legal thinking allow the law of the place where a contract is made to determine the validity and the consequences of the act.
Judgment affirmed.
UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF UTAH.

No. 5. Argued April 18, 19, 20, 1921; restored to docket for reargument January 9, 1922; reargued April 11, 12, 13, 1922.-Decided
May 29, 1922.
1. A combination whereby one railroad system, through stock purchases, acquires control of the whole or a vital part of another,
with the effect of materially reducing free and normal competition
in interstate trade between the two, violates the Sherman AntiTrust Act. P. 229.
2. Inasmuch as the Central Pacific Railway System with its eastern
connections, and the Southern Pacific Railway System, are normally competitors for railway traffic moving between California

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

215

Syllabus.

and the Atlantic seaboard and intermediate places, the acquisition
in 1899 by the Sout.hern Pacific Company, owning the Southern
Pacific System, of a controlling part of the stock of the Central
Pacific Railway Company, owner of the Central Pacific lines,
constituted a combination made unlawful by the Sherman Act.
P. 229. United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S. 61.
3. The principle of United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S.
61, and of the previous cases upon which it rested, does not depend
upon the existence of competition when the combination is formed.
P. 230.
4. The history of the two railroad systems here involved, considered
and held not to justify the stock purchase in question upon the
theory that there was a prior practical consolidation of them,
antedating the Sherman Act, through their physical relations and
community of stock-ownership and control. P. 232.
5. In view of the important rights and franchises conferred upon the
Central Pacific Railroad Company by the United States, a ninetynine year lease of its railrad made by it in 1885 to its competitor,
the Southern Pacific Company, was beyond its corporate capacity,
in the absence of any act of Congress authorizing or approving it.
P. 233.
6. Approval of this lease is not to be inferred from the fact that
Congress had opportunity to learn of it through reports of committees or otherwise. P. 234.
7. The fact that a combination or contract in restraint or monopoly
of interstate trade was entered into before the date of the Sherman Act does not exempt it from the operation of that statute.
P. 234.
8. Under the Act of July 7, 1898, c. 571, 30 Stat. 659, which constituted the Secretaries of the Treasury and Interior and the
Attorney General a commission with full power to settle the debt
of the Central Pacific Railroad Company to the United States,
subject to the approval of the President and to terms laid down
in the act, a plan was approved and reported to Congress whereby
the company's notes were to be delivered to the Government and
be secured by bonds to be issued under a first mortgage on all its
lines. Execution of the plan upon the part of the railroad (then
under lease to the Southern Pacific Company) accompanied a reorganization involving creation of the Central Pacific Railway Company, its succession to the property of the Central Pacific Railroad
Company, issuance by the new company of mortgage bonds secured
by the property and guaranteed by the Southern Pacific Company,

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

part of which were delivered to the Government as the collateral
called for by the settlement agreement, and acquisition by the
Southern Pacific Company of a controlling part of the new company's stock. The guaranty, not mentioned in the settlement
agreement, was referred to in the Attorney General's report of the
settlement to Congress, and Congress later passed acts authorizing
the Secretary of the Treasury to dispose of any notes in his possession touching the indebtedness of the Central Pacific Railroad
Company and to settle claims of that road and of the Southern
Pacific, for transportation services, by credits on the Central
Pacific notes. The notes were paid primarily by checks of the
Southern Pacific.
Held that the commission's acceptance of the guaranty was neither
in intention nor in effect a condonation of the violation of the
Sherman Act committed in the acquisition of the stock, and that
the settlement did not estop the Government from prosecuting
under that statute. P. 235.,
9. The decree in United States v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 226 U. S.
61, does not conclude the Government on the issues here involved,
since the Central Pacific Railway Company was not a party in that
suit up to the final decree in this court, and the subject-matter of
that case and the questions decided in it differ from the subjectmatter here and the questions here presented for decision. P. 240.
10. Delay of fourteen years in instituting this suit to set aside the
control gained by the Southern Pacific through purchase of Central Pacific stock in 1899 was not laches, in view of the time consumed by the intervening prosecution to set aside the control
gained by the Union Pacific Railroad Company through purchase
of Southern Pacific stock in 1901. P. 240.
11. Whether the leases to the Southern Pacific Company and its
acquisition of Central Pacific stock were in and of themselves
violative of the Pacific Railroads Act of 1862 and supplemental
legislation-not decided. P. 241.
12. The decree to be entered should sever the control by the Southern
Pacific of the Central Pacific by stock-ownership or lease, protect,
as far as compatible the mortgage of the Central Union Trust
Company, and insure both railroads proper access to San Francisco Bay, over the several terminals, lines and cut-offs leading
thereto, constructed or acquired during the unified control of the
two systems; and similar provision should be made respecting lines
extending from San Francisco Bay to Sacramento and Portland,
Oregon. P. 241.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

217

Argument for the United States.

13. In framing the decree the District Court may bring in additional parties. P. 241.
239 Fed. 998, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing,
upon final hearing, a suit brought by the United States
for relief against an alleged unlawful combination between the two railroad companies. The facts are stated
in the opinion, post, 224.
Mr. Edward F. McClennen, Special Assistant to the
Attorney General, and Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with
whom Mr. James W. Orr, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on the brief, for the United States.1
In February, 1899%when this combination was formed,
the Central Pacific Railroad and the Southern Pacific
Railroad were existing railroads naturally competitive
for an enormous volume of interstate traffic, and the
combination between them unreasonably, directly, substantially, and wholly prevented and destroyed competition between them, and continues to do so; and the combination artificially created a monopoly to the public
injury.
The Pacific Railroad laws imposed on the franchise
of the Central Pacific Railroad and on the franchise of
the Union Pacific Railroad the reciprocal duty of the
one railroad not to discriminate against the other in
favor of any other railroad, but to exert together in normal, voluntary co~peration all the natural forces of a
single railroad naturally competing with the parallel
Southern Pacific Railroad; and the systematic and preconcerted discrimination which the Southern Pacific Company, in operating the franchise of the Central Pacific
Railroad, has practiced against the Union Pacific Rail1

At the former hearing Mr. McClennen argued the case on behalf
of the United States. Mr. Solicitor General Frierson and Mr. Orr
also were on the brief.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

road in favor of the Southern Pacific Railroad is a violation of those laws; and this combination between the
Southern Pacific Railroad and the Central Pacific Railroad, furnishing the incentive of self-interest to discriminate against the Central Pacific Railroad and the Union
Pacific Railroad in favor of the Southern Pacific Railroad,
and so to violate those laws, imposed on the Central Pacific Railroad an unreasonable and unlawful restraint to
the injury of the public and to the defeat of the purpose of
those laws, which was to create and develop'three separate,
competitive systems of railroad to the Pacific Coast, with
all the advantages that would come to the public from
three railroads which were competitive.
The payment by the Central Pacific Railroad Company
of its debt to the United States, and the transactions
leading thereto, did not exempt the Southern Pacific
Company from the provisions of the Sherman Act, or
permit that company to make a combination which otherwise would be one in restraint of trade; because, (1) the
settlement commission did not seek any guaranty by the
Southern Pacific Company; (2) the contract of settlement did not require such a guaranty; (3) the United
States received only payment of a debt already due and
adequately secured; (4) neither the commission, nor the
President, nor the Congress, purported to give this company a special indulgence to make a combination in
restraint of trade, prohibited as a crime by general law
to all other corporations; and, (5) such a special indulgence or advance pardon is beyond the constitutional
power of the commission, the President, and the Congress.
The Central Pacific Railroad and the Southern Pacific
Railroad were never, prior to February 20, 1899, a single
railroad or system, but, on the contrary, were always two
distinct railroads; (1) separately projected by separate
and unrelated groups of men; (2) separately aided by
gifts of public lands and loans of the public credit under

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

219

Argument for the United States.

acts of Congress to promote these two separate competitive systems of railroad between the Atlantic Ocean and
the Central United States on the east, and the Pacific
Ocean on the west, and enacted prior to 1867 and before
any person interested in the one railroad was interested
in the other; (3) separately owned by separate corporations organized by separate groups of men; (4) separately
constructed at the expense of and for these separate corporations; (5) separately leased by these separate corporations under separate leases, making the amount of
rent dependent on the net earnings of the separate railroads; (6) separately controlled by boards of directors,
some of whom were always diverse, and a majority of
whom were diverse in all but five years between 1865 and
1899; and (7) separately stock-owned, always to a substantial extent, and from 1883 to 1899 to the extent of
more than a majority of the capital stock in each separate
corporation, held by widely scattered stockholders in the
United States and Europe.
The Southern Pacific Company on February 20, 1899,
had no contractual, or property, or vested interest, direct or indirect, in the Central Pacific Railroad; because,
(1) the purported lease of February 17, 1885, by the
Central Pacific Railroad Company was void for lack of
power in that company to make it, both under the laws
of California and under the laws of the United States,
the sovereignty from which it derived its franchises; (2)
in 1893 this lease was canceled and the new purported
lease then given was equally void for the same reason;
and (3) the leasehold interest was subject to immediate
destruction by the foreclosure of the underlying lien of
the United States.
Even if the Southern Pacific Company had had some
control over the Central Pacific Railroad before the Sherman Act was passed, this would not render lawful a con-

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

259 U. S.

bination for the increase and perpetuation of that control, formed after this act was passed.
In the case of United States v. Union PacificR. R. Co.,
226 U. S. 61, the court did not adjudge expressly or by
inference that it was not unlawful for the Southern
Pacific Company to hold the stock of the Central Pacific
Railway Company. The court made no decision on this
question; indispensable parties for such a decision were
absent; and the effect of a decision in such a case is limited
to what was actually decided.
The United States is not estopped by any inconsistent
position taken in the Union Pacific Case, nor barred by
absence of complaint of this restraint of trade in the
Union Pacific Case.
The petition is not barred by laches. There has been
no unreasonable delay or laches in bringing the suit at
bar. Laches by a sovereign is not a defense to a petition
to enforce a criminal law.
The lapse of more than five years since the formation
of this combination is not a bar. This is not an indictment, information, suit, or prosecution for penalty or
forfeiture. The occurrence of an offense more than five
years ago does not bar a proceeding to prevent the continuance of it hereafter.
Mr. Garrett W. McEnerney and Mr. Joseph P. Blair,
with whom Mr. William F. Herrin was on the briefs, for
appellees.
This case does not involve any combination of competitive units, or any combination at all; for the Southern
Pacific and Central Pacific lines were projected and built
and have been operated since their origin as one property.
At the time of the passage of the Sherman Act, the
Southern Pacific and Central Pacific lines were owned by
a single proprietor, although the Central Pacific lines
were held under a ninety-nine year lease made February

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

221

Argument for Appellees.

17, 1885, instead of in fee; but "it is obvious that in
principle the right of a lessee is the same as that of a
purchaser in fee." Waskey v. Chambers, 224 U. S. 565.
The Act of July 7, 1898, 30 Stat. 652, 659, creating the
commission for the settlement of the Central Pacific debt,
contemplated as natural, if not inevitable, the agreement
subsequently made, and it invested the commission with
full authofity to agree to the plan which was adopted for
the payment of the indebtedness, including the provision
by which the Southern Pacific Company acquired the
stock of the Central Pacific Company.
In any event, the Government is estopped by its conduct to question the legality of the unified control of the
Central Pacific and the Southern Pacific lines.
The present status of the Southern Pacific-Central
Pacific lines was confirmed by the Acts of March 3, 1899,
30 Stat. 1245, and March 3, 1901, 31 Stat. 1023.
It is established by the opinion and decree in United
States v. Union Pacific R. B. Co., 226 U. S. 61, that, up
to the time of the Union Pacific merger in 1901, "sharp,
well-defined and vigorous" competition existed between
the Ogden and El Paso routes, notwithstanding the ownership of the Central Pacific by the Southern Pacific;
and it is here in proof that the competitive conditions of
1901 and before were restored after the unmerger in 1913.
It is thus apparent that we may draw upon the three
departments of the Government of the United States for
support in our position that the Southern Pacific may
and does lawfully control and operate the Central Pacific
and that no violation of the Anti-Trust Act is involved
in such control and operation.
Irrespective of the considerations already dealt with,
and considering the matter as an open question, traffic
conditions between the El Paso and Ogden routes are
such that the control of the Central Pacific line by the
Southern Pacific Company does not constitute an undue
restraint of commerce.

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellees.

259 U. S.

The Government, by reason of the position taken and
claims urged by it in the Union Pacific Case, is estopped
from questioning the validity of the ownership and control of the Central Pacific Railway Company by the
Southern Pacific Company.
The final decree in United States v. Union PacificR. R.
Co., is a bar to all relief sought by the Government in
this case.
No violation of the Pacific Railroad Laws is presented
in this case.
The construction which the Government attempts to
put upon the Pacific Railroad Laws is inconsistent with
the position which has always been taken by the three
departments of the Government concerning the control
of the Central Pacific by the Southern Pacific.
Even though a violation of the Pacific Railroad Laws
were proved in the case, the remedy would not be dismemberment, but would be injunction of restraint or
command to comply with the provisions of the acts.
There is no evidence whatever of any attempts at
monopoly or monopolistic practices.
It is impossible to dismember the Southern PacificCentral Pacific System without substantial deterioration
in the public service.
It is not necessary here to consider whether properties
which had been operated together as one from their
origin continuously down to July 2, 1890, under, say,
tenures at will, could or could not thereafter be legally
unified by purchase, lease, etc., because, at the time of
the passage of the Anti-Trust Act, the properties here
involved were owned by a single proprietor, although the
tenure under which a part of the properties was owned
was a ninety-nine year term and not a fee.
Considering that these lines were operated as one from
their origin, and that, on July 2, 1890, the Central Pacific
lines were held under a ninety-nine year term expiring

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

223

Argument for Appellees.

April 1, 1984, it is clear that the lease of December 7,
1893, which cut down the term three months, viz: to
January 1, 1984, is entirely lawful.
If the lease of December 7, 1893, were invalid as one
executed after the passage of the Anti-Trust Act, the
Southern Pacific Company would nevertheless be treated
at law and in equity as the holder of the ninety-nine year
term which it acquired under the lease of February 17,
1885, notwithstanding the provision of cancelation contained in the lease of December 7, 1893.
The Anti-Trust Act did not make unlawful the operation by a single proprietor of lines owned by him at the
date of the passage of the act which were not then competitive but which could be made competitive if divorced.
The argument for the Government in this case overlooks the value and importance to the Government of the
guaranty of the bonds by the Southern Pacific Company
in 1899.
Both sides seem to be agreed, although for different
reasons, that the Government cannot be said to have been
an accomplice in the violation of its own laws: the appellees contending that no laws were violated, and counsel for the Government asserting either that: the Government did not know the facts; or was unconscious of the
law; or, in final analysis, had no power through its own
officers to violate its own laws.
The argument that the ninety-nine year lease of the
Central Pacific lines to the Southern Pacific Company,
dated February 17, 1885, was or is invalid, is without
merit.
This case does not come within any rule or supposed
rule dealing with the prevention of competition coming
into existence.
The purely theoretical nature of the present suit is
shown by the complete absence of complaint on the part
of shippers or the public generally.

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

In its last analysis, the relief here sought is experimental and not judicial in its nature. The Government
does not seek the destruction of a new and unlawfully
created condition which took the place of an old and
natural one; it seeks the destruction of an old and natural
condition in order that it may create by a new and untried
experiment a condition which has no prototype.
The price paid in 1899 by the Southern Pacific Company for Central Pacific shares was not excessive.
Neither the Northern Division of the Southern Pacific
Railroad nor its Coast Line opened in 1901 bears upon
the issues here involved.
In considering the estoppels against the Government
arising out of the settlement of 1899, it is of no consequence whether the provisions thereof which were designed to protect the Government were in the first instance suggested by Mr. Speyer or by the Government
itself.
The powers of the Commission under the Act of July 7,
1898, were limited in those particulars only which are
expressed in the act. In respect of matters not so limited
the commission had what the act gave it, "full power"
in the matter.
Because of the thirty years' de facto unification of the
properties, this case is in a class apart.
Testimony contained in the report of the Pacific Railroad Commission is not competent evidence of facts
therein narrated.
Mr. Perry D. Trafford and Mr. James Gore King filed
a brief on behalf of the Union (now Central Union)
Trust Company of New York, appellee.
MR. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

The United States on February 11, 1914, filed its bill in
the District Court of the United States for the District of

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

225

Opinion of the Court.

Utah against the Southern Pacific Company, the Central
Pacific Railway Company, the Union Trust Company of
New York, and the directors and officials of the Southern
Pacific Company. The charge of the petition is that the
defendants restrain or attempt to monopolize, and do
monopolize trade and commerce in violation of the Act of
July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209, known as the Sherman
Act, and have also violated the provisions of the Act of
Congress of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489. The prayer of
the petition is that the lines of the Southern Pacific Company and those of the Central Pacific Railway Company be
decreed to constitute competitive systems, and that the
ownership acquired by the Southern Pacific Company of
all or a controlling interest in the capital stock of the Central Pacific Railway Company, and its lease, control and
operation of the lines thereof be declared violative of the
Sherman Act; and that the'Southern Pacific Company be
required to dispose of such capital stock, and cancel and
relinquish its lease, control, management and operation
thereof; and that the control of the Central Pacific Railway Company by the Southern Pacific be decreed to be in
violation of the Act of Congress of July 1, 1862, entitled
"An Act to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from th6 Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean,
and to secure to the Government the use of the same for
postal, military, and other purposes; " and also violative
of the act, supplemental to the Act of 1862, the Act of
July 2, 1864, c. 216, 13 Stat. 356, and the Act of June 20,
1874, c. 331, 18 Stat. 111, the Government maintaining
that the effect of such acts is to require the Central Pacific
to maintain physical connection with the Union Pacific
to make a through line to the coast, and to furnish equal
advantages and facilities as to rates, time, and transportation over such through line.
An answer .was filed by the defendants, much testimony
was taken, arid a decree was entered dismissing the peti-

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

tion, one of the three Circuit Judges who heard the case
dissenting. 239 Fed. 998.
The Central Pacific Railroad Company of California
was incorporated under the laws of California in 1861 for
the purposes of constructing a railroad from Sacramento
to the eastern boundary of California. In 1862 and 1864
Congress by proper legislation incorporated the Union
Pacific Railroad Company to build from the Missouri
River westward, and authorized the Central Pacific to
build eastwardly from the Pacific Coast, at or near San
Francisco, to a common meeting-point with the Union
Pacific. These acts of Congress authorized the issue of
first mortgage bonds, and also second mortgage bonds,
and made a land grant of public lands for each linear
mile of railroad construction. These acts provided that
these two railroads should be operated as one continuous
line, and that neither should discriminate in favor of
or against the other. Leland Stanford, Charles Crocker,
C. P. Huntington and Mark Hopkins acquired a large
part of the capital stock of the Central Pacific Company. The Central Pacific assigned to the Western Pacific a portion of the construction, namely, that from Sacramento to San Jose, this with the approval of Congress.
C. 88, ยง 2, 13 Stat. 504.
The Pacific Railroads were constructed from 1864 to
1869 from the Missouri River to the Pacific Coast; from
Omaha to Ogden by the Union Pacific; from Ogden to
Sacramento by the Central Pacific; from Sacramento
to San Jose by the Western Pacific, afterwards consolidated with the Central Pacific. These are denominated in
the defendants' brief as the "bond-aided lines." What
they call the non-bond-aided lines of the Central Pacific
system are those from Niles to Oakland, from Lathrop to
Goshen, and from Roseville to Redding, which were constructed in the State of California from the years 1869 to
1872. In 1870 the Central Pacific absorbed in consolida-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

227

Opinion of the Court.

tion the Western Pacific, which built from Sacramento to
San Jose; the Alameda Company which built from Niles
to Oakland; the San Joaquin, which built from Lathrop to
Goshen; and the California and Oregon Company which
built from Roseville north en route to the Oregon line.
The Southern Pacific Railroad Company was incorporated in 1865 under the laws of California for the purpose of constructing a railroad from San Francisco Bay
by the way of San Diego to the eastern boundary of
California. In 1866 Congress passed an act to incorporate
the Atlantic & Pacific Railroad Company to construct a
railroad near the 35th parallel of latitude from Springfield,
Missouri, to the Pacific Ocean. This act authorized the
Southern Pacific to connect with the Atlantic & Pacific
near the eastern boundary of California, and both companies were granted public lands. In 1867 the Southern
Pacific changed its route to the eastward so as not to go
as far south as originally contemplated; this act was ratified by Congress and the legislature of California in 1870.
In 1871 Congress incorporated the Texas Pacific Railroad Company to build a line of railroad near the 32d
parallel of latitude from Marshall, Texas, by the way of
El Paso to the Pacific Ocean at San Diego, and to connect
on the east with other railroads, and on the west with the
Southern Pacific Railroad. The Southern Pacific was
authorized to construct a railroad from Tehachapi Pass
to a junction of the Texas Pacific Railroad at the eastern
boundary of California. Land grants were made to both
companies. In 1872 the Central Pacific had extended its
lines to Goshen.
About 1870 the promoters of the Central Pacific obtained control of the Southern Pacific, and subsequently
the latter was constructed from Goshen through Tehachapi Pass, with one fork to a junction with the Atlantic
& Pacific at The Needles (near 35th parallel) on the Colorado River at the eastern boundary of the State, and the

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

other fork to the southeastern corner of the State (near
32d parallel), thence across Arizona and New Mexico to a
junction in Texas with the Texas & Pacific, thence fo a
connection at El Paso with the Galveston, Harrisburg &
San Antonio Railroad. The sections of the Southern line
were leased for a series of years to the Central. In 1881
the Southern Pacific made a junction with the Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe at Demming, New Mexico. In 1882
the Southern made a junction with the Texas & Pacific
at Sierra Blanca, Texas. In 1883 the direct line of the
Southern connection with the Galveston, Harrisburg &
San Antonio and its eastern connections was completed
through to New Orleans. The same year it made its
junction with the Atlantic & Pacific at The Needles.
The section from Mojave to Needles was leased to the
Santa Fe in 1883, and sold to it in 1911. From 1883 to
1885 the Central Pacific was the lessee owner of a system
of leases, and the system was known as the "Central
Pacific Railroad and Leased Lines." In February, 1885,
after the formation of the Southern Pacific Company. (of
Kentucky) that road became the lessee. We shall have
occasion to deal more particularly with that lease later.
Without familiarity with the geography of the region
described and the location of the points named, this description means little. The outstanding facts, and those
essential to be considered in the view which we take of
this branch of the case, are: The Central Pacific Railroad
extends from the Bay of San Francisco to Ogden, Utah,
with a branch extending north from Roseville in central
California to the northern boundary of California; and to
Kirk in Oregon; and a branch extending south from Lathrop in central California to Goshen, California; and a
branch extending south from Hazen in Nevada to Mojave
in California; and a branch from Fernley in Nevada to
Susanville, California; and a short line in Oregon from
Oakridge to Natron. At Ogden, the Central Pacific con-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

229

Opinion of the Court.

nects with the Union Pacific, extending to Omaha, Nebraska, and to Kansas City, Missouri; connecting at
Ogden with the Denver & Rio Grande Railroad, and with
other connecting roads eastwardly to the Missouri River;
and from the Missouri River to the central and eastern
parts of the United States.
The Southern Pacific system extends from San Francisco Bay by way of El Paso to Galveston, Texas, and to
New Orleans, there connecting with steamship lines to
New York City controlled by the Southern Pacific. At
El Paso it connects with the Rock Island which runs
to Omaha and Chicago; at New Orleans, it connects with
roads extending to points in the central and eastern parts
of the United States. It owns branches in Texas, Arizona, New Mexico, Oregon and many in California.
The Central Pacific with its eastern connection at Ogden forms one great system of transportation between the
east and the west, and the Southern Pacific with its roads
and connections, and steamboat lines, forms another great
transcontinental system for transportation from coast to
coast. The Central Pacific constitutes some 800 miles of
the transcontinental line of which it is a part. The
Southern Pacific system has practically its own line of
railroads and steamboat connections to New York via
Galveston and New Orleans.
Under principles settled in the Union Pacific Case, 226
U. S. 61, 86, the acquisition by the Southern Pacific Company of the stock of the Central Pacific Railway Company
in 1899, unless justified by the special circumstances relied
upon, to be hereinafter considered, constituted a combination in restraint of trade because it fetters the free and
normal flow of competition in interstate traffic and tends
to monopolization. In the Union Pacific Case this court
held that the acquisition by the Union Pacific, which constituted about 1,000 miles of the transcontinental system,
to which we have referred, of enough stock in the Southern

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Pacific to dominate and control it, was violative of the
Sherman Act. This case differs from that not at all in
principle. These two great systems are normally competitive for the carrying trade in some parts from the east
and middle west to the coast, and for the traffic moving
to and from central and northern California, including a
great volume of ocean-borne traffic which lands on the
coast destined across the continent to the Atlantic Seaboard and intermediate western and eastern points, or is
-destined from the latter points to foreign ports via San
Francisco or other Pacific Coast points.
Counsel for the defendants, evidently realizing this situation, make elaborate argument to distinguish the
Union Pacific Case. The claim is made that the decision
there rested only on the fact that a then existing competition was restrained through the purchase by the Union
Pacific of the control of the Southern Pacific in 1901; but
the principle of that decision and of the previous cases
upon which it rested was broader than the mere effect
upon existing competition between the two systems.
Such combinations, not the result of normal and natural growth and development, but springing from the formation of holding companies, or stock purchases, resulting in the unified control of different roads or systems,
naturally competitive, constitute "a menace to, and a
restraint upon, that freedom of commerce which Congress
intended to recognize and protect, and which the public
is entitled to have protected." Northern Securities Co. v.
United States, 193 U. S. 197, 327. This principle was
restated and applied in United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., supra; it was reiterated and approved by the
court as recently as the October Term, 1919, United States
v. Reading Co., 253 U. S. 26, 57, 58, 59.
These cases, collectively, establish that one system of
railroad transportation cannot acquire another, nor a substantial and vital part thereof, when the effect of such

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

231

Opinion of the Court.

acquisition is to suppress or materially reduce the free
and normal flow of competition in the channels of interstate trade.
In the instant case we are not dealing with the principle
in the abstract. The proof is ample that the policy of the
Southern Pacific system has been to favor transportation
-on its line by securing for itself, whenever practicable, the
carriage of freight which would normally move eastward
or westward over the shorter line of the Central Pacific
Railroad and its connections, for its own much longer and
wholly owned southern route. This course was limited
by an arbitrary rule during the time the Union Pacific
dominated the Southern Pacific from the stock purchase in
1901 until the so-called "unmerger" in 1913, as a result
of the decision of this court in the Union Pacific Case.
The compelling motive of this course of conduct is obvious.
The Southern Pacific owns and controls the southerly
route, and receives 100% of the compensation for freight
transported by its road and water lines. Over the Central
Pacific route it receives but a fraction of the freight because the Union Pacific with its eastern connections takes
up the carrying from Ogden to the east. Self-interest dictates the solicitation and procurement of freight for the
longer haul by the Southern Pacific lines. While many
practices, formerly in vogue, are eliminated by the legislation of Congress regulating interstate commerce, and
through rates and transportation may be had under public
supervision, there are elements of competition in the
granting of special facilities, the prompt carrying and delivery of freight, the ready and agreeable adjustment and
settlement of claims, and other elements which that legislation does not control.
It is conceded in the brief of counsel for the defendants
that "it is true of all such systems that, other things being
equal, freight is preferentially solicited for the 100%
haul."

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

We reach the conclusion that the stock ownership in the
Central Pacific acquired by the,.Southern Pacific is violative of the Sherman Act within the principles settled by
this court, certainly since the decision in the Northern
Securities Case, in 1904; and that such stock ownership
must be divested from the Southern Pacific Company
unless the special circumstances and defenses set up and
relied upon by the defendants are to prevail.
In the opinion of the majority of the judges sitting in
the District Court it was set forth that these companies,
the Southern Pacific and the Central Pacific, constituted
practically a single system of railroads. This was held
to be particularly true of so much of the systems as are
in California and Oregon. It was said that the roads
of the Central Pacific System appear on the map as natural links and parts of the Southern Pacific System, and
that the spurs, branches and tributary feeders of the Central Pacific belong to the Southern Pacific. It was maintained that the construction and control of these systems
had substantially united them before the acts complained
of which are alleged to be violative of the Sherman Act.
True, the Central Pacific was incorporated by, and for a
portion of the time under consideration its stock was
owned by, Messrs. Stanford, Hopkins, Huntington and
Crocker. Perhaps as early as 1870 the same group gained
control of and continued to dominate the policy of the
Southern Pacific. The roads were always separate and
distinct corporations; they were so recognized in the acts
of Congress making land grants to them, authorizing their
construction and operation from one State or Territory
to another, and otherwise conferring rights on them which
only Congress could confer. For, a good part of the time
the roads had boards of directors not consisting of the
same persons. At times the majority of the stock was
separately held. In the Central Pacific when the lease
of 1885 to the Southern Pacific was made only one-fourth

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO. 233
214.

Opinion of the Court.

of the stock was held by the group to which we have referred. It had been sold and was widely owned in the
United States and Europe. The dominating control was
maintained from the fact that the stock had not been
transferred by its true owners on the company's books,
and much of it was held in the name of employees who
were used in voting it by the original promoters, their
successors and survivors.
We cannot accept the theory of prior practical consolidation as a justification for a violation of the Sherman
Act resulting from the stock control acquired in 1899.
Much stress is placed on the lease in February, 1885,
of the Central Pacific to the Southern Pacific for a term
of 99 years. In 1884 the Southern Pacific, a holding company, was organized as a corporation of the State of Kentucky. The organization of this company which acquired the stocks of the Southern Pacific System, and became the lessee of the Central Pacific, was the result of a
meeting in New York of Messrs. Stanford, Huntington,
Crocker, and Timothy Hopkins, the successor of Mark
Hopkins. The plan was then discussed, and the necessary
measures directed to carry it into execution.
The lease of 1885 is set up in the answer and relied
upon as showing an existing legal acquisition before the
transfer of the Central Pacific stock in 1899. This lease
made February 17, 1885, was modified in January, 1888,
and on December 7, 1893, a lease was entered'into which
recited that the agreements of lease between the same
parties, the Southern Pacific and the Central Pacific,
dated February 17, 1885, and January 1, 1888, respectively, should be canceled except in so far as they relate to
the operation of the demised premises prior to January
1, 1894, and to the adjustment of accounts in respect to
such operation.
It is contended by the Government that this lease in
itself constituted a combination in restraint of interstate

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

commerce. However this may be, this court has repeatedly recognized the fact that the Central Pacific was a
corporation receiving much of its authority and power
from acts of Congress. California v. Central Pacific
R. R. Co., 127 U. S. 1. In CentralPacificR. R. Co. v. California, 162 U. S. 91, it was held by this court that on the
return for taxation by the Central Pacific Railroad Company of the value of its franchise and roadway, roadbed
and rails within the State of California, the same might
be taxed under the laws of that State. This conclusion
was reached against the elaborately stated and strongly
expressed dissents of Mr. Justice Field and Mr. Justice
Harlan. In the prevailing opinion, delivered by Mr.
Chief Justice Fuller, it was recognized (p. 123) that important franchises conferred upon the Central Pacific
were of federal creation, including that of constructing a
railroad from the Pacific Ocean to Ogden in the then Territory of Utah.
It is true, as is argued at length by counsel for the defendants, that Congress had opportunity by the reports of
its committees, and otherwise, to learn of this lease; but
we are referred to no legislation passed by Congress
authorizing or approving of it. In our view the lease for
99 years by the Central Pacific to a rival and competitive
company could not legally be made without authorization by federal legislation. In the absence of such action
the Central Pacific had not the corporate capacity to make
the lease. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. St. Louis, Alton &
Terre Haute R. R. Co., 118 U. S. 290; Central Transportation Co. v. Pullman's Palace Car Co., 139 U. S. 24.
Moreover, it is authoritatively settled by decisions of this
court that no previous contracts or combinations can
prevent the application of the Sherman Act to compel the
discontinuation of illegal combinations. After Congress
exercises its authority to regulate interstate commerce
conduct becomes illegal which has the effect of contracts,

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO. 235
214.

Opinion of the Court.

conspiracies, or combinations to restrain the freedom of
interstate trade, or to monopolize the same in whole or
in part. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175
U. S. 211, 228. The principle has often been declared and
applied in this court. It is stated and the previous cases
reviewed in Philadelphia,Baltimore & Washington R. R.
Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S. 603, 613, 614.
We find nothing in these leases to the Southern Pacific
Company which justifies the continued control of the
Central Pacific by the Southern Pacific after the Sherman
Act became effective.
We come now to the settlement of the Central Pacific
debt, in 1899, which the court below held to be a practical
construction of the Sherman Act, and to warrant the conclusion that the Southern Pacific control of the Central
Pacific was not within its condemnation. After hearings
and reports, and attempted legislation, Congress passed
the act to create a commission to settle the indebtedness
of the Central Pacific and Western Pacific Railroads to
the United States. This act was passed July 7, 1898, c.
571, 30 Stat. 659, and constituted the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of the Interior and the Attorney
General a commission with full power to settle the indebtedness to the Government growing out of the issue of
bonds in aid of construction of the Central Pacific and
Western Pacific bond-aided roads, upon such terms and
in such a manner as might be agreed upon between them
and the owners of said roads. The act also provided that
the settlement should not be binding until approved by
the President of the United States; that the commission
should not agree to accept a less sum than the full amount
of principal and interest and all amounts necessary to reimburse the United States for moneys paid, for interest,
or otherwise. It provided that the rate of interest upon
instalments should be not less than 3% per annum, pay-

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

able semi-annually, with such security as the commission
might deem expedient; that the final discharge of the indebtedness should not be postponed beyond ten years;
that the whole amount, principal and interest, should be
paid in equal semi-annual instalments within that period;
that any settlement made should provide that if a default
were made in the payment of either principal or interest,
the whole sum and all instalments should immediately
become due and payable; and that unless the settlement
authorized should be perfected within one year the President of the United States should at once proceed to foreclose all liens held by the United States against he railroad companies to collect the indebtedness sought to be
settled under the act, and that nothing therein contained
should be held to waive or release any right, lien or cause
of action held by the United States.
Under this act a settlement was effected as of date
February 1, 1899. The Central Pacific's debt *to the
United States for government aid in the construction of
lines between Sacramento and Ogden, and Sacramento
and San Jose, amounted to $58,812,715.48; one-half of
this amount was accrued interest. It was secured by a
statutory lien on the bond-aided lines, subject to prior first
mortgages. The Central Pacific's bonded debt amounted
to $57,471,000, largely secured by first mortgages on its
various lines of railroad. The outstanding stock was
$67,275,500.
Messrs. Speyer & Company, New York bankers, undertook to formulate the plan, and the agreement of settlement was signed by the commissioners in behalf of the
United States, the Central Pacific Railroad Company and
Messrs. Speyer & Company. It was approved by the
President. By the agreement of settlement the Central
Pacific was to execute to the United States twenty promissory notes dated February 1, 1899, payable respectively
on or before each six months for ten years, each note for

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

237

Opinion of the Court.

the sum of $2,940,635.78, being one-twentieth of the debt,
bearing interest at 3%, payable semi-annually, all to
mature on default in payment of any one of them. Under
the agreement gold bonds not exceeding $100,000,000 were
to be issued, secured by first mortgage on all the Central
Pacific lines, bond-aided, or not, this mortgage to be
prior in lien to any lease of the railroads of the Central
Pacific Railroad Company. The bonds were secured by
the guaranty of the Southern Pacific. No such agreement
of guaranty was embodied in the written settlement, but
it was known to the commissioners that the plan contemplated such guaranty. Of these bonds $58,820,000 were
to be deposited with the Treasurer of the United States
as security for the twenty instalment notes. Speyer &
Company within one month after the execution and delivery of the notes were to purchase from the United
States the four notes first maturing by paying the face
thereof for the same, $11,762,543.12 and interest. A
proportionate amount of the collateral mortgage bonds
was to go with the notes.
On February 15, 1899, the commission reported the
agreement to the House of Representatives. No reference
to the guaranty of the Southern Pacific upon the bonds
appeared in the report. In the annual report of the
Attorney General to the Senate and House of November,
1899, the completion of the settlement, which had been
made, was set out, and the guaranty of the Southern
Pacific was stated, no doubt by inadvertence, to be upon
the notes instead of upon the bonds. The notes, held in
the Treasury of the United States, were paid primarily
by the checks of the Southern Pacific, and charged by
that road against the Central Pacific.
On March 3, 1899, c. 427, 30 Stat. 1245, Congress authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to dispose of
any notes in his possession touching the indebtedness
of the Central Pacific Railroad Company to the United

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

States. On March 3, 1901, c. 831, 31 Stat. 1023, the
Secretary of the Treasury was authorized and directed to
settle claims for interest growing out of transportation
services for the Government over non-bond-aided lines
of the Southern Pacific and the Central Pacific by crediting the amounts on the Central Pacific notes.
Neither the agreement between the commissioners,
the Railroad Company and Speyer & Company, nor the
report of the commission to Congress contained any
reference to the proposed acquisition of the stock of the
Central Pacific by the Southern Pacific. The Speyer
plan for the adjustment of the affairs of the Central
Pacific was dated February 8, 1899, was put out February
20th of the same year, was extensively published in American and European financial circles, and was given publicity in the Commercial and Financial Chronicle in the
February, 1899, issues of .that journal. Under the terms
of the plan the Central Pacific Railway Company, successor to the Central Pacific Railroad Company, was
organized as a corporation of the State of Utah on July
29, 1899. The Central Pacific Railroad Company (the
old corporation of 1861), conveyed all of its property
to the new company. On August 1, 1899, the Central
Pacific Railway Company executed a refunding mortgage of $100,000,000 to the Central Trust Company of
New York, trustee, and a mortgage of $25,000,000 to the
Union Trust Company of New York. The Southern
Pacific Company executed instruments subordinating its
lease to the lien of these mortgages. Thereupon, carrying out the Speyer plan for the Southern Pacific to acquire the stock of the new Central Pacific Railway Company, $20,000,000 of the preferred shares of the latter
company were issued, which were taken by the Southern
Pacific at par. The outstanding stock of the old Central
Pacific was taken by the Southern Pacific, share for
share, plus 25% in the bonds of the Southern Pacific.

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

239

Opinion of the Court.

To consummate this transaction Southern Pacific mortgage bonds amounting to $36,819,000 were issued,$20,000,000 thereof were used to acquire the new Central Pacific preferred stock, the balance to provide the
25% in bonds required to aid in the share-for-share exchange of the outstanding Central Pacific stock in the
hands of private owners. Thus the $outhern Pacific
under the Speyer plan was to become the owner of the
Central Pacific Railway Company stock.
In the opinion of the District Court it is said:
"We do not say that the commission was authorized
to violate or to sanction the violation of the act of Congress, but the adjustment they effected necessarily involved the question of its pertinence to the business in
hand. The acceptance of the guaranty of the Southern
Pacific was a recognition that it had sufficient corporate
interest in the Central Pacific to justify it. Without
such interest its accommodation guaranty of $100,000,000
of bonds of another company would manifestly have
been ultra vires-a gross, indefensible excess of its corporate powers. Again, the acceptance of the guaranty
implied a recognition of its possible natural result; that
is to say, the enforcement of the rights of a guarantor
against the property of a debtor. The addition of the
stock ownership by the Southern Pacific to its long leasehola interest did not so change the situation as to make
unlawful what was not so before."
We are unable to accept this view. The commission
with the approval of the President was authorized to settle the Central Pacific debt in accordance with the terms
of the Act of 1898. It did not undertake to exercise authority not conferred upon it by giving immunity from
the penalties of the Sherman Act. The Attorney General testified that the act was not mentioned in the course
of the discussion. The Southern Pacific Company's guaranty of the new bonds was made, so far as that company

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

was concerned, from motives of self-interest sufficient in
the opinion of those who controlled it to warrant suchl
action. The commissioners, acting for the Governnent,
accepted such guaranty. They did not thereby condone,
or intend to condone, any act which had the effect to violate the Sherman Act. Nor could this settlement estop
the Government from prosecuting an action under the
provisions of the act.
It is insisted that the decree in the Union Pacific Case
is decisive of this controversy, and amounts to an adjudication against the Government of the issues involved.
The conclusive answer to this contention is that the Central Pacific was not a party to that suit up to the final
decree in this court. That suit and the present one do
not relate to the same subject-matter.. The issues and
questions, therein decided, are not the ones presented
for decision here. Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U. S.
351; United Shoe Machinery Co. v. United States, 258
U. S. 451.
The defendants contend that the suit is barred by laches
on the part of the Government in failing to institute it
earlier. Without deciding that this defense is available
when an action is brought under an act of Congress embodying, as does the Sherman Act, an expression of public
policy enforceable'by criminal prosecution and by civil
suit instituted by the Attorney General, we are unable to
discover that laches exists in the failure to more promptly
prosecute the suit. The stock acquisition complained of
was in 1899. In 1901 the Union Pacific acquired control
of the Southern Pacific by purchase of sufficient stock to
accomplish that purpose. The Union Pacific Case was
begun in 1908, and a final decree reached in 1913, and in
1914 this suit was begun.
Other points are insisted upon in the oral argument and
the elaborate briefs of the defendants. We have considered them, but they do not overcome the -conclusions here-

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

241

Opinion of the Court.

inbefore stated which in our view dispose of this cause,
and require a reversal of the decree of the District Court.
We do not find it necessary to pass upon the Government's contention that the leases to the Southern Pacific
and the acquisition by it of Central Pacific stock were in
and of themselves violative of the Pacific Railroad Acts
of Congress of 1862 and subsequent supplemental legislation.
We direct that a decree be entered severing the control
by the Southern Pacific of the Central Pacific by stock
ownership or by lease. But, in accomplishing this purpose, so far as compatible therewith, the mortgage lien
asserted in the brief filed for the Central Union Trust
Company shall be protected.
In addition, the several terminal lines and cut-offs leading to San Francisco Bay which have been constructed or
acquired during the unified control of the two systems
for the purpose of affording direct or convenient access to
the Bay and to the principal terminal facilities about the
Bay should be dealt with, either by way of apportionment or by provisions for joint or common use, in such
manner as will secure to both companies such full, convenient and ready access to the Bay and to terminal facilities thereon that each company will be able freely to compete with the other, to serve the public efficiently, and to
accomplish the purpose of the legislation under which it
was constructed. And a like course should be pursued
in dealing with the lines extending from San Francisco
Bay to Sacramento and to Portland, Oregon.
* To the end that an appropriate decree may be framed,
the District Court may and should bring in additional
parties whenever that may become advisable in executing
our directions.
Reversed and remanded accordingly.
MR. JusTICE MCREYNOLDS

and MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS

took no part in the consideration or decision of this case.

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MCKENxA,

MR.JUSTICE McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

259 U. S.

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of
the court. To this I feel constrained because I think it
is unjust for the Government to enforce a dissolution of
the relation existing between the Central Pacific Railway
Company and the Southern Pacific Company. I put my
action on that ground alone though much can be said on
the other grounds urged by the Government and contested
by the appellee companies.
Prior to this relation another existed between the two
companies or systems (they may be said to have had that
pretension and extent) constituted by a lease for 99 years,
executed in 1885 by the Central Pacific Railroad Company to the Southern Pacific, giving to the latter the dominion of a proprietor. Waskey v. Chambers, 224 U. S.

564, 565.
The Central Pacific Railroad Company was a bondaided road and on account of it was under obligation to repay the Government the aid it had received, and Congress
by an Act passed July 7, 1898, 30 Stat. 659, created a
commission with power to settle the indebtedness. An
agreement of settlement was made in which the Southern
Pacific was a participant and by it assured the payment
of the securities provided for in the agreement of settlement between the Central Pacific Railroad Company and
the Government.
This participation was contemplated in the scheme submitted by Speyer & Company to the commission,' and
'James Speyer of the firm of Speyer & Company being on the *itfils stand, the following is part of his testimony:
"Q. Please state whether the Central Pacific could have complied
with the conditions imposed by that act of Congress [Act of 1898]
without a financial readjustment of their affairs of the kind contained
in the readjustment which you arranged for?"
The question was objected to, but the witness answered.
"The Witness. Without some kind of readjustment they could not
have complied. I am not prepared to say that the adjustment we

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

McKENNA,

243

J., dissenting.

the present relation of the company is the outcome of the
settlement, and it may be said, is the substitute of the
made was the only kind; but some kind of adjustment seemed absolutely necessary."
By Mr. Blair:
"Q. And you made a plan of readjustment?
A. We did.
Q. I put before you, for convenience of reference, the plan of readjustment which was used when Mr. Ruhlender was testifying. You
recognize that as the plan of readjustment which was arranged for?
A. I do.
Q. Mr. Speyer, when you started to work upon that plan of readjustment did you expect and count upon the intervention and aid of
the Southern Pacific Co~flpany?
A. I kmew I could not carry it through without the help of the
Southern Pacific; or some other railroad company, in case the Southern Pacific had not come to assist.
Q. Did you ever contemplate or work upon any plan which did
not involve the intervention and aid of the Southern Pacific Company?
A. I did not.
Q. And that plan could not have been carried through without
the intervention and aid of the Southern Pacific Company?"
The question was objected to.
"Q. Mr. Speyer, considering the terms required by the act of
Congress, namely, the 'equirement that the entire debt of fifty-eight
million eight hundred thousand dollars, in round numbers, would
have to be paid in ten years, in twenty semiannual installments,
would any one at all familiar with the Central Pacific affairs know
that the Central Pacific, with its own resources and credit, could
not comply with those conditions?
A. He would.
Q. It would be obvious to anyone at all familiar with the affairs
of the Central Pacific that it could not with its own resources and
credit comply with the terms of that act?
A. Yes, sir.
Q. In making the agreement which you participated in with the
United States, what did you count upon to enable you to carry out
the 4greement with the United States?
A. The cooperation of the security holders of the Central Pacific
and of the Southern Pacific Company."

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

259 U. S.

rights and control the Southern Pacific, as lessee, had of
the Central Pacific Railroad Company.
Was it a justifiable substitute? The answer should be
in the affirmative. When the Act of 1898 was passed the
situation was serious, the problem complex, and because
the problem was complex three Cabinet officers were selected to solve it. These were the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Attorney General. Their prominence in the Government, their official
concern with the subject-matter assured fidelity in the
execution of the trust and repel charge or intimation that
they were, or could be, actuated by anything other than a
strict consideration of duty and the ;xercise of their trust.
And their ability assured judgment in the selection of
means. The problem, it is to be remembered, was something more than to ascertain the amount of the debt. It
involved, it might be, foreclosure of the Government's
liens and, it might also be, government ownership and all
that that meant.
The debt was known to be $58,812,715.48. It was
secured by a mortgage on the lines of the Central Pacific
Railroad Company, it is true, but the mortgage was subordinate to other mortgages for about the same amount.
It was to be rescued from this subordination, and given
independence and certain solvency. The power given to
the commissioners was necessary to and commensurate
with the purpose. The power was " to settle the indebtedness" "upon such terms and in such manner as" might
"be agreed upon", and to take " such security as " might
"seem expedient". The only limitation was that the payment was not to be extended more than ten years.
Necessarily, therefore, there was power to view the situation and judge of it, its legal and practical aspects, and
what was possible in law and fact in the interest of all
concerned to be done, and it may be presumed that the
commission found that there was nothing exigent in the

UNITED STATES v. SOUTHERN PAC. CO.
214.

MCKENNA,

245

J., dissenting.

situation or that demanded the separation of the Southern
Pacific from the Central Pacific, and that the guarantee
of the former could be accepted, and all that would follow
from it. And it is to be remembered that the action of
the commission received the sanction of the President,
and was reported to Congress. If either had objected,
the settlement as planned could not have been accomplished, and both would have objected if they had discerned anything sinister or inimical to law in it or that
would result from it.
It is said, however, that there was no affirmative approval by Congress, and that its approval cannot be assumed from nonaction.
The Government makes much of this, ignoring all else,
and ventures, in a kind of desperation, against the circumstances, the incredible assertion that Congress was ignorant of the guarantee of the Southern Pacific and its contributing efficiency. And this against an irresistible presumption to the contrary and in defiance of the fact that
the Attorney General reported to Congress the terms of
settlement and that the notes taken in settlement were
guaranteed by the Southern Pacific; and in defiance of
the further fact that the bonds that it was provided were
to be deposited as security for the notes with the Secretary
of the Treasury, had endorsed upon them the guarantee
of the Southern Pacific and that the financial and coltmercial journals of the country, addressing the business
world-the world that was to accept the notes which
Congress authorized the Secretary to sell-explained the
settlement and the relation of the Southern Pacific to it,
and the assurance of safety and value the guarantee of
the Southern Pacific gave.
I need not dwell on the contention of the Government;
the court has not been impressed by it. The court's
view is, rejecting that of the District Court, that there was
no acceptance by the commission of the Southern Pacific's

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MCKENNA,

J., dissenting.

259 U. S.

guarantee which carried obligation, and that the guarantee was the prompting of interest on the part of the
Southern Pacific. I concede the latter. The enterprise
that is necessary, and is exhibited in the conduct of great
railroad systems, whose traffic is concerned. with a continent, is not induced by the altruistic-it is, and naturally
must be, prompted by interest, but it, as other transactions of the business world, is entitled to legal sanction
and remedy.
The court asserts an interest in the Southern Pacific
that urged its guarantee but does not explain the interest.
It is of pertinent concern to consider what it was. It
manifestly was no other than the relation of the company to the Central Pacific Railway Company through
stock ownership. The company would necessarily have
no concern or interest in the Central Pacific (the new company) or the payment of the old company's debts to the
Government, if it was to be separated from the Central
Pacific and declared a competitor and a business antagonist; and this must have been apparent to everyone connected with the transactions if they gave any reflection to
them-anything but a haphazard and reckless attention,
inconsiderate of practical and legal consequences. This
cannot be assumed and the contrary must be, that is, that
the guarantee of the Southern Pacific was accepted as
necessary to the settlement of the debt.
I repeat, and summarize, that the situation was of great
concern to the Government. Its solution was the consummation desired, and through the aid of the Southern
Pacific. The company's guarantee was assurance to the
business world that behind the notes and bonds of
the Central Pacific were the great properties of the
Southern Pacific and the competency of its management. And the company made sacrifices in addition to
the guarantee and they, and it, were accepted by the Government, and therefore, the benefit that the company
expected cannot be denied it.

MILES v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
214.

247

Syllabus.

There was no thought in anyone's mind that the acquisition of stock by the Southern Pacific in the Central
Pacific would be a restraint upon competition, or a detriment to the public interest. The attitude of those concerned in the transaction can be accurately realized by
the reflection that the interest-control, if it may be so
called-that the Southern Pacific acquired in or over the
new company (the Railway Company) was not greater
nor more offensive to law than it had in or over the old
company (the Railroad Company). The latter control
existed from the enactment of the law until it was superseded by the agreement, a period of eight years. And
there was no revulsion against or condemnation of the
control-not by the Government, whose duty it was to
proceed against it if it violated the Anti-Trust Law; not
by any business interest, though for such interest the law
was enacted as a protection. This suit was not brought
until 1914, fifteen years after the agreement, not, however, by the government of the agreement but by the government of a much later time.
I think, therefore, that the decree of the District Court
should be affirmed.
MILES, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND, v. SAFE
DEPOSIT & TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE,
GUARDIAN OF BROWN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 416. Argued December 16, 1921.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. A preferential right accorded pro rata to the stockholders of a
corporation to subscribe at a stated price for a new issue of shares,
is not a fruit of stock ownership in the nature of a profit, nor a
division of any part of the corporate assets. P. 251.

