114

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

485, 487-489. There was, consequently, no implied license to use the spare parts in these machines. As such
use, unless licensed, clearly constituted an infringement,
the sale of the spare parts to be so used violated the injunction. And the sale having been made with full
knowledge of all relevant facts, the Court of Appeals properly held that, so far as Wilson had sought remedial, as
distinguished from punitive action, the District Court was
not justified in purging the petitioner of contempt arising from the sale of spare parts.
Affirmed.
HEALD, EXECUTOR OF PETERS, v. DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 268. Argued April 13, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.
1. The objections that the act of Congress taxing the intangible
property of persons resident or engaged in business in the District
of Columbia, (c. 160, ยง 9, 39 Stat. 1046), is unconstitutional because
of its alleged application to intangible property, credits, etc., of
non-residents and to state and municipal bonds, cannot be raised
by persons who are residents and whose property taxed is within
the District and does not include such bonds. P. 122.
2. Whether a clause of this act respecting the exemption of the stock
of &ertaincompanies from the tax is void for uncertainty, held not
open for decision in a suit where it was not shown that any tax
was levied on the basis of it or that it subjected the plaintiff to
injury or embarrassment. P. 123.
3. Congress has power to tax residents of the District of Columbia
for support of the District Government and to cause the money to
be paid into the Treasury of the United States and held, not as a
separate fund for the District, but subject to the disposal of Congress, notwithstanding the fact that the persons taxed lack the
suffrage and have politically no voice in the expenditure of the
money. P. 124.
269 Fed. 1015; 50 App. D. C. 231, affirmed.

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
114.

115

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, affirming ajudgment of the Supreme Court of the District for the defendant in an
action to recover a tax. See also s. c. Heald v. District
of Columbia,254 U. S. 20.
Mr. Vernon E. West, with whom Mr. A. S. Worthington
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
The whole act being void, because it unlawfully taxes
nonresidents, plaintiffs in error may question its validity.
It would be most remarkable if they and others in a similar position must continue to pay taxes under a void
statute until the question of its invalidity is raised by a
nonresident. Congress clearly intended that the act
should operate alike upon residents and nonresidents engaged in business here.
The court below relied upon Plymouth Coal Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531, 544; Jeffrey Mfg. Co. v.
Blagg, 235 U. S. 571; and Arkadelphia Milling Co. v. St.
Louis S. W. By. Co., 249 U. S. 134. But each of those
cases relates to the constitutionality of state statutes.
This court had before it only the question of constitutionality, and not the qt4estion of construction. It was not
incumbent upon this court to determine whether the
whole act must fall if part was void; provided, there was
any possible legal construction by which the state court
could separate the good from the bad. The reason for the
rule applied by this court in regard to state statutes is
fully set forth in Hatch v. Reardon, 204 U. S. 152, 160.
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, though involving a state statute, is peculiarly analogous to the case
at bar. See Oklahoma v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 223 U. S.
298; Sully v. American National Bank, 178 U. S. 289.
The law here involved is not a state statute, but an act
of Congress relating to the District of Columbia which
this court, as well as the courts below, has jurisdiction to

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

construe. Smoot v. Heyl, 227 U. S. 518; 12 Corpus Juris,
764; State v. BengschC 170 Mo. 81; State v. Cumberland
Club, 136 Tenn. 84; People v. McBride, 234 Ill. 146.
In no case has this court refused to hold an act of Congress void on the ground that the party assailing the act
was not affected by it in the particular complained of,
except in those cases where the provisions of the act were
found to be separable. United States v. Delaware &
Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366, 417; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 463; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. McKendree, 203 U. S. 514; United States v. Reese, 92 U. S.
214; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678; Trade-Mark Cases,
100 U. S. 82.
The Act of 1917 contains three provisions which are
beyond the power of Congress and render the whole act
void. (a) The provision taxing nonresidents on intangible property; (b) the provision taxing them on their
credits not arising out of their business in the District;
and (c) the provision taxing state and municipal bonds.
The provisions of the act as to the tax on "shares of
stock" are so vague that it is impossible to determine
what shares are taxable and what are exempt; so that so
much of the act as relates'to them is void. Consequently
the whole act falls.
Congress is without power to tax the inhabitants of the
District of Columbia or to cause them to be taxed, for
local purposes, so long as they are not represented in the

taxing body.
It can not be disputed that when the colonies established their independence it was recognized by all of
them that not only is taxation without representation
tyranny, but that the right to be represented before he
can be taxed is a fundamental right, the deprivation of
which reduces the injured person or community to a state
of slavery. It was deemed to be as important and fundamental as the right of trial by jury. It was, in substance,

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
114.

117

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the same as the right that private property shall not be
taken for public use without just compensation.
These have been the rights of Englishmen for a thousand years. The Declaration of Independence discloses
that these are among the rights to maintain which our
forefathers drew the sword. And these rights existed to
their fullest extent in the residents of Montgomery and
Prince George's Counties when a part of each of those
counties was transferred to the Federal District of the
Constitution. They are today the rights of the inhabitants of this District, unless they have been voluntarily
surrendered.
In so far as the cession itself is concerned, there is no
room for argument. The act of cession passed by the
Maryland legislature expressly provided: "That nothing
herein contained shall be so construed to vest in the
United States any right of property in the soil or to affect
the rights of individuals therein, otherwise than the same
shall or may be transferred by such individuals to the
United States." Tindal's, The City of Washington,
31, 167.
A similar provision was embodied in the Virginia act
of cession. Tindal, 32. These acts and the other acts
of Virginia and Maryland and the proceedings under
which the transfer of the jurisdiction to the United States
was completed, are set forth in Mbrris v. United States,
174 U. S. 196.
If the residents of the ceded territory lost their right
to be represented in any body that imposed taxes on
them, they lost it by virtue of some express provision
of the Constitution. In the creation of that instrument
they were represented by the Virginia and Maryland
delegates in the Convention of 1787, and they were
represented in the conventions of their respective States
when Virginia and Maryland ratified the Constitution.
The express provisions of the Constitution as to taxation are that Congress shall have power to lay and collect

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

taxes, and uniform duties, imposts and excises, to pay the
debts and provide for the common defense and general
welfare of the United States throughout the United
States; and that no capitation, or other direct, tax, shall be
laid, unless in proportion to the census.
We make no question that the people of this District are
subject to taxation by Congress under these provisions
of the Constitution, as well as under the amendment giving Congress the power to impose an income tax. As to
the direct tax provision, it was so held in Loughboroughv.
Blake, 5 Wheat. 317. But obviously a different question
arises as to taxation for local purposes in the District.
That depends upon the proper interpretation of par. 16,
ยง 8, Art. I, of the Constitution, giving Congress power to
exercise exclusive legislation over the District and over
forts, etc. There seems to be nothing in the recorded proceedings of the Constitutional Convention or in the debates in the Colonial Assemblies when the question of
ratifying the Constitution was under discussion that
throws any light upon the meaning given by the Convention to the words "exclusive legislation" in this clause of
the Constitution. It was adopted without debate. But
Madison (Federalist No. XLIII), in explaining the necessity for an independent seat of government, assumes that
a State, ceding territory for this purpose, "will no doubt
provide in the compact for the rights and the consent of
the citizens inhabiting it;" that they "will have had
their voice in the election of the government which is to
exercise authority over them; " and that "a municipal
legislature for local purposes, derived from their own
suffrages, will of course be allowed them.'
Our claim that the right of Congress to exercise exclusive legislation in this District does not include the power
to tax, is sustained by the history of the events which led
to the independence of the Colonies and the adoption of
the Constitution.

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
114.

119

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The great contention of the Colonists in their controversy with Parliament over the Stamp Act in 1765-6,
was that the Parliament's power to legislate for the Colonies did not include the power of internal taxation-that
legislation is one thing, and taxation another. 3 Bancroft's History of the United States (Centenary Ed.) pp.
480, 562; 4 History of Debates and Proceedings of Both
Houses of Parliament, pp. 288-291; James Otis, Rights
of the British Colonies, 3d ed., 1766, p. 55; 3 Hallam's
Constitutional History of England (1861 ed.), pp. 34, 35,
36, 105. In every history of these pre-revolutionary times
in America it is recorded that the Colonists everywhere
resisted the efforts of Parliament to tax them on the principle laid down by their champions in Parliament that
taxation is not legislation. When it became evident that
the Colonies would resist by force of arms if necessary the
enforcement of the Stamp Act, Pitt, in concluding a speech
on the subject, advised its repeal, (4 History of Debates
and Proceedings in Both Houses of Parliament, p. 297,)
which was done, coupled with a resolution declaring that
Parliament had the power of legislating for the Colonies
in all cases whatsoever. It matters not that those who
favored the Stamp Act still held that the words, "in all
cases, whatsoever," included the power of taxation. It
can not be questioned that Pitt's view was the American
view on this subject. It is inconceivable that the people
who from 1765 to 1783 were contending for the principle
that the power to legislate does not include the power to
tax should in 1787 have provided in the constitution they
then framed that power to tax without representation
should be conferred upon Congress when, as to the proposed federal district, it was given merely the power to
legislate.
The contemporaneous construction of the "exclusive
legislation" provision of the Constitution, continued for
over seventy years, demonstrates that it was not held to

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

deprive the inhabitants of the District of their right to
be represented in any body that should be empowered to
tax them.
From the time of the cession till 1871, the inhabitants
of the District taxed themselves through their elected representatives, except that in that part of the territory
which was not included in the municipal corporations of
Washington, Georgetown and Alexandria, they were taxed
by what were substantially county commissions composed
of justices of the peace appointed by the President. Acts
of February 21, 1801, 2 Stat. 103; May 3, 1802, 2 Stat.
193; July 1, 1812, 2 Stat. 771.
From 1871 till 1874, they were taxed by a local legislature, one branch of which was elected by them and the
other appointed by the President. Act of February 21,
1871, 16 Stat. 119.
From 1874 till 1878, Congress had under consideration
various plans providing for a permanent form of government for the District and meanwhile Congress regulated
taxation in the District. Act of June 20, 1874, 17 Stat.
116.
From 1878 till 1920, one-half of the expenses of the
District Government were required to be paid out of the
revenues of the District produced by laws enacted by
Congress and the other one-half by the United States.
Act of June 11, 1878, 18 Stat. 102.
Thus, till 1874 the people of the District were fully
protected in their right to be represented in the body that
taxed them; during the next four years they were waiting
for Congress to decide on their form of government; and
from that time till 1920 they were amply protected from
excessive or unfair taxation by the fact that for every
dollar taken from them in taxes the United States was
required to appropriate a dollar from its treasury. Acquiescence in such taxation by the inhabitants of the District under these circumstances can not be considered as

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
114.

121

Counsel for Defendant in Error.

binding them to continue to submit when the protection
afforded them by the Act of 1878 is withdrawn.
The actual decisions of this court and the courts of the
District of Columbia do not uphold the power of Congress
to levy local taxes in the District. Distinguishing and explaining: Loughborough v. Blake, 5 Wheat. 317; Gibbons
v. District of Columbia, 116 U. S. 404; Welch v. Cook, 97
U. S. 541; Mattingly v. District of Columbia, 97 U. S.
687; Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264; Willard v. Presbury, 14 Wall. 676; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548; Wilson v. Lambert, 168 U. S. 611; Parsons v. District of
Columbia, 170 U. S. 45.
We are not for a moment claiming that the inhabitants
of this District can escape taxation unless they are given
representation in Congress. To give us such representation would be the simplest way out; but it is not the
only way. It is not taxation that we oppose but taxation without representation. Nor are we claiming that
anything like a state government is essential, or even
that municipal powers should be given us again. All
that is required to make taxation legal in the District
is that a body of some kind having the power to regulate
taxation here shall be created and that we shall be represented in that body.
Even if the inhabitants of the District of Columbia are
not protected by the, great principle of the Revolution
that "taxation without representation is tyranny," the
Intangible Tax Law is invalid because under the statutes
which were in force when it was enacted, and which axe
stli in force, ll money raised by District taxation is required to be paid into the Treasury of the United States
to be used, not for local expenses, but as other Treasury
funds are used, for the general expenses of the Government of the United States. See Binns v. United States,
194 U. S. 486.
Mr. F. H. Stephens for defendant in error.

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
To aid in defraying the expenses of the District of Columbia Congress laid a tax of three-tenths of one per cent.
on the value of the intangible property of persons resident, or engaged in business, within the District. Act
of March 3, 1917, c. 160, ยง 9, 39 Stat. 1004, 1046. This
tax was assessed upon such property held by Heald and
others, as committee of Peters, an insane person. They
and their ward were residents of the District; the property was located there; and none of it consisted of municipal bonds or was otherwise of a character exempt by
law from taxation. The committee, asserting that the
taxing act violated the Federal Constitution, paid the tax
under protest, and brought this action in the Supreme
Court of the District to recover the amount so paid.
Judgment was there entered for the defendant. The case
was then taken to the Court of Appeals of the District
which sought by certificate to obtain from this court instructions as to the constitutionality of the act. The certificate was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Heald v.
District of Columbia, 254 U. S. 20. Thereupon the case
was heard in the Court of Appeals and it affirmed the
judgment of the lower court. 50 App. D. C. 231; 269
Fed. 1015. The case is now here on writ of error. Peters
having died, his executors, of whom Heald is the survivor,
were substituted as plaintiffs in error.
Plaintiff contends that the act is void (a) because it requires every non-resident of the District who engages in
business therein to pay a tax on all his intangible property wherever situated or from whatever source derived;
(b) because it requires a non-resident engaged in business
within the District to pay a tax on all his credits or choses
in action, whether due from residents or non-residents, including those which have not been reduced to concrete
form; (c) because it taxes bonds of States and their
municipalities. The District insists that such is not the

HEALD v. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
114.

123

Opinion of the Court.

correct construction of the act, that it has not in fact been
so construed or applied by the taxing officials, and that,
even if it had been, the whole act would not thereby be
rendered void, as these provisions are clearly severable
from the rest of the act. Compare Hatch v. Reardon,
204-U. S. 152, 161; Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 127 U. S. 411; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S.
466. But these objections, even if otherwise well founded,
would not entitle plaintiff to challenge the validity of the
tax. The property taxed is located within the District;
those who hold it and the owner are residents; and there
is no state or municipl bond among the property taxed.
It has been repeatedly held that one who would strike
down a state statute as violative of the Federal Constitution must show that he is within the class of persons with
respect to whom the act is unconstitutional and that the
alleged unconstitutional feature injures him.' In no case
has it been held that a different rule applies where the
statute assailed is an act of Congress; nor has any good
reason been suggested why it should be so held. Compare
United States v. Chandler-DunbarWater Power Co., 229
U. S. 53, 73; Strausv. Foxworth, 231 U. S. 162, 171; Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U. S.126.
Then it is contended that one clause of the act is void,
because, in enumerating classes of property exempt from
the tax on intangibles, it recites "the shares of stock of
business companies which by reason of or in addition to
incorporation receive no special franchise or privilege."
The argument is that the meaning and application of this
clause is so uncertain that the taxpayer is left without a
guide in making his return. We have no occasion to inquire into the meaning or effect of this provision or
'Supervisors v. Stanley, 105 U. S. 305, 311; Hatch v. Reardon, 204
U. S. 152, 160; Citizens National Bank v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 443,
453; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania,232 U. S. 531, 544; Thomas
Cusack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U. S. 526, 530; Arkadelphia Milling Co.
v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 134, 149.

M2

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

whether it is open to the criticism leveled against it; for
this plaintiff would likewise not be entitled to raise this
objection even if well founddd; since it is not shown that
any tax was levied on the basis of this clause or that it
has subjected plaintiff either to injury or to embarrassment.
Finally it is earnestly contended that the act is void,
because it subjects the residents of the District to taxation
without representation. Residents of the District lack
the suffrage and have politically no voice in the expenditure of the money raised by taxation. Money so raised
is paid into the Treasury of the United States, where it
is held, not as a separate fund for the District, but subject
to the disposal of Congress, like other revenues raised by
federal taxation. The objection that the tax is void because of these facts, is fundamental and comprehensive.
It is not limited in application to the tax on intangibles,
but goes to the validity of all taxation of residents of the
District. If sound, it would seem to apply not only to
taxes levied upon residents of the District for the support
of the government of the District; but also to those taxes
which are levied upon them for the support generally of
the government of the United States. It is sufficient to
say that the objection is not sound. There is no constitutional provision which so limits the power of Congress
that taxes can be imposed only upon those who have
political representation. And the cases are many in
which laws levying taxes for the support of the government of the District have been enforced during the period
in which its residents have been without the right of
suffrage.1
Affirmed.
Compare Gibbons v. Districtof Columbia, 116 U. S. 404; Metropolitan R. R. Co. v. District of Columbia, 132 U. S. 1, 8; Shoemaker
v. United States, 147 U. S. 282; Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548;
Wilson v. Lambert, 168 U. S. 611; Parsons v. District of Columbia,

170 U. S. 45, 50; District of Columbiav. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138.

