UNION TOOL CO. v. WILSON.

107

Syllabus.

UNION TOOL COMPANY v. WILSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 132. Argued March 1, 2, 1922.--Decided May 15, 1922.
1. Upon an application of the plaintiff in a pending suit charging the
defendant with several contempts of an injunction in the case, the
District Court fined the defendant upon part of the charges, partly
as punishment and partly as compensation to the plaintiff, and
purged the defendant in other respects without prejudice to a
renewal of the application. Held:
(a) That the order, taking character from its criminal feature, was
subject as a final judgment to immediate review, on behalf of the
defendant, by writ of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals.
P. 110.
(b) That, when the order was thus brought before it, the Court of
Appeals acquired jurisdiction to review it in its civil as well as its
criminal aspects. P. 111.
(c) That the defendant having taken a writ of error, the plaintiff
was entitled to review the part of the order unfavorable to himself,
and that, only legal questions arising upon agreed facts being involved, his appropriate method was by a cross writ of error, irrespective of the remedial provision of the Act of September 6, 1916,
c. 448, § 4, 39 Stat. 726. P. 111.
2. An order of the District Court in a contempt proceeding, which,
through failure to apply well settled legal principles to a conceded
state of facts, refuses to impose a fine on one party to a suit as compensation to the other for injury resulting from violation of an
injunction, is subject to correction by an appellate court. P. 112.
3. A direction by the Circuit Court of Appeals that the District
Court, in a contempt case, "impose such punishment as may seem
proper," interpreted, in view of the opinion and other proceedings
as referring to civil compensation. P. 112.
4. A writ of injunction, in a patent-infringement suit in the District
Court, may properly bear teste of the Chief Justice of the United
States. Rev. Stats., § 911; Jud. Code, §§ 289, 291. P. 112.
5. A party knowing of an injunction is bound to obey it, even if the
writ has not issued. P. 113.
6. Objection to the teste of a writ of injunction may be waived if not
seasonably made. P. 113.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S..

7. Where a patentee obtained an injunction forbidding manufacture
and sale of machines infringing his patent and of parts or elements
that might be used in combination to effect infringement, and also
an interlocutory decree requiring the manufacturer to account for
damages and profits arising from employing the invention in machines sold prior to the injunction, but it did not appear that the
patentee had received any compensation for the infringement by
use of those machines, held, that no license to use spare parts in
them could be implied, and that sale of such parts, to be so used,
was a violation of the injunction for which a remedial fine should
have been inflicted on the manufacturer upon application of the
patentee. P. 113.
265 Fed. 669, affirmed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court
purging the petitioner of contempt of an injunction. The
case is stated in the opinion. See 265 Fed. 669, herein
affirmed, and also 262 Fed. 431.
Mr. Frederick S. Lyon, with whom Mr. Leonard S.
Lyon, Mr. William K. White and Mr. A. V. Andrews were
on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. G. Benton Wilson, with whom Mr. F. W. Clements
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEis delivered the opinion of the
court.
Wilson sued the Union Tool Company in the federal
court for the Southern District of California, Southern
Division, for infringement of a patent for underreamers.
He obtained a decree for an injunction and an accounting,
237 Fed. 847, which was affirmed by the United States
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, 249 Fed.
736; and a petition for writ of certiorari was denied by
this court, 248 U. S. 559. Thereafter, a writ of injunction
issued -which forbade the manufacture and sale, not only
of infringing machines, but also of parts or elements that
might be used in combination to effect infringement.

UNION TOOL CO. v. WILSON.
107.

Opinion of the Court.

Wilson claimed that there had been deliberate violation of the injunction both by the sale of infringing machines and by the sale of spare parts; and he moved in
the District Court that the company and certain of its
officers be punished for contempt or otherwise dealt with
for violating it. The District Court found that, since the
service of the injunction, the company-had sold infringing machines; held it guilty of contempt in so doing;
ordered that the company pay to the clerk of the court
$5,000 as a fine, and that out of this sum $2,500 be paid
to Wilson "as a reasonable portion of the expenses incurred" by him in the contempt proceeding; and further
ordered that if the fine were not paid within twenty days,
Double, the company's president, be committed to jail,
to be there confined until it should be paid. The District
Court also found that the company had sold, after the
service of the injunction, spare parts to be used with machines or devices sold by the company prior thereto, and
that these were of such a nature that when used in combination they would effect an infringement. But the
court concluded, for reasons to be stated, that the sale of
such spare parts should not subject the company to a
fine, and purged it of contempt in that respect, without
prejudice to the right of Wilson to renew his application.
To have this judgment entered in the contempt proceeding reviewed by the Court of Appeals, the company
and Double sued out a writ of error; and thereafter Wilson sued out a cross writ of error. The two writs were
considered and disposed of separately. On the original
writ the judgment was modified by striking out all that
related to Double; and it was reversed in so far as it
"directed that $2,500 be paid to the clerk of the court
as a punishment of the corporation." But in so far as
the judgment directed payment to Wilson as compensation, it was affirmed. 262 Fed. 431. On the cross writ,
which was heard and decided later, the Court of Appeals

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

overruled a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction;
held the company guilty of contempt in selling the spare
parts; held that the District Court had abused its discretion in purging the company of this contempt; reversed,
in that respect, the judgment; and remanded it with directions to the District Court to impose such punishment as
might seem proper. 265 Fed. 669. A motion of the company for leave to file a petition for mandamus to compel
the Court of Appeals to vacate its judgment on the cross
writ of error and to dismiss the latter was denied by this
court. 254 U. S. 608. But a petition for a writ of certiorari was granted to review the reversal of the judgment
in so far as it purged petitioner of contempt in selling the
spare parts. 254 U. S. 624. And it is that alone which
is now here for review.
The contention that the Court of Appeals was without
jurisdiction of the cross writ of error is renewed here.
It is argued that the judgment for contempt, so far as
now sought to be reviewed, is remedial, not punitive; that
being remedial it can be reviewed only on appeal and not
on writ of error; that an appeal will not lie until after the
final decree; and that no final decree had been entered, as
the accounting was still in process. It is true that the
part of the judgment for contempt now under review is
remedial. But it does not follow that the Court of Appeals lacked jurisdiction to review it on the cross writ of
error. The District Court entered a single order, part
remedial, part punitive. Where a fine is imposed partly
as compensation to the complainant and partly as punishment, the criminal feature of the order is dominant
and fixes its character for purposes of review. In re Merchants' Stock & GrainCo., 223 U. S. 639. If the company
had acquiesced in the judgment entered, Wilson, having
no right to initiate a review of the punitive part, could
not have instituted any appellate proceeding until after
final decree. Matter of ChristensenEngineeringCo., 194

UNION TOOL CO. v. WILSON.
107.

Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 458; Doyle v. London Guarantee & Accident Co.,
204 U. S. 599. See also Alexander v. United Stat's,-201
U. S. 117, 122. But an order punishing one criminally
for contempt, is a final judgment. The contemnor paay
obtain immediately a review by writ of error. Bessette v.
W. B. Conkey Co., 194 U. S. 324, 336-338. And the company availed itself of this right. When the order was
thus brought before the Court of Appeals, it acquired, at
the company's instance, jurisdiction to review that part
which was civil as well as that which was criminal in its
nature. In the exercise of that jurisdiction it granted,
in respect to Double, relief which affected both the criminal and the civil parts of the order. If a cross writ of
error had not been filed, Wilson could not have secured
from the Court of Appeals relief in respect to that part of
the order which was unfavorable to him. Bolles v. Outing Co., 175 U. S. 262, 268. But a cross writ was duly
filed; and that enabled the court to review the portion
of the order, civil in its nature, which Wilson alleged to
be erroneous; for the judgment in the contempt proceeding was a unit. The case resembles in some respects
Mayer v. Walsh, 108 U. S. 17; Walsh v. Mayer, 111 U. S.
31, 37, 38. Compare Field v. BarberAsphalt Co., 194 U.
S. 618, 620, 621. The facts relating to the sale of spare
parts were agreed; and the question before the court was
merely as to their legal effect. That question could appropriately be considered on cross writ of error-even
without resort to the power conferred by § 4 of the Act
of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726. Cases like
Ex parte National Enameling Co., 201 U. S. 156, and
Farrarv. Churchill, 135 U. S. 609, relied upon by the
company, are not applicable.
The company contends also that the judgment of the
District Court, being favorable to it in so far as it related
to spare parts, was not subject to review by any appellate
court, at any time, by any proceeding-although remedial

112

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

in its nature. The argument is that where the court of
whose- authority contempt is charged either finds that
there was no contempt or purges the offender, a judicial
power has been exercised which is discretionary and is
not subject to review. But the fact that a remedial order
was entered in a contempt proceeding is not in itself a
reason why it should not be subject to correction by an
appellate court. In Worden v. Searls, 121 U. S. 14, 26,
such an order granting compensation was reversed by this
court; and in the Court of Appeals like orders of the District Court denying compensation have been reviewed.
Enoch Mordan's Sons Co. v. Gibson, 122 Fed. 420; L. E.
Waterman Co. v. Standard Drug Co., 202 Fed. 167. In
the determination of the question whether an injunction
has been violated and, if so, whether compensation shall
be made to the injured party, there may be occasion for
the exercise of judicial discretion; but the order to be entered in such a proceeding is not exclusively or necessarily
a discretionary one. See Christensen Engineering Co. v.
Westinghouse Air Brake Co., 135 Fed. 774; Gordon v.
Turco-Halvah Co., 247 Fed. 487.. Moreover, legal discretion in such a case does not extend to a refusal to apply
well-settled principles of law to a conceded state of facts.
See Winchester Repeating Arms Co. v. Olmsted, 203 Fed.
493, 494; In re Sobol, 242 Fed. 487, 489.
Minor objections of a procedural nature are also urged.
It is said that while the infringement by sale of spare
parts was a civil contempt, the Court of Appeals directed
the District Court "to impose such punishment as may
seem proper" and thus ordered criminal punishment. In
view of the opinion and other proceedings, the direction
must be understood as referring to compensation. Compare Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221 U. S. 418,
441. Then it is insisted that the writ of injunction, although properly attested by the clerk of the District
Court, was void and of no effect because it bears teste of

UNION TOOL CO. v. WILSON.
107.

Opinion of the Court.

the late Chief Justice of the United States, whereas by
§ 911 of the Revised Statutes it should have borne teste
of the District Judge. Under that section writs from the
Circuit Courts bore teste of the Chief Justice; and since
the transfer of their jurisdiction to the District Courts
writs from them may be properly tested by the Chief
Justice. See Judicial Code, §§ 289, 291. But the company is in no position to make the objection. Knowing
of the injunction, it would have been bound to obey it
even if no writ had issued. In re Lennon, 166 U. S. 548,
554. Moreover, the objection to the teste of the writ is
made, so far as appears, for the first time, in the brief
filed by petitioner in this court. Compare District of
Columbia v. Brooke, 214 U. S. 138, 147.
On the merits the contention is this: The interlocutory
decree awards to Wilson, among other things, compensation by way of damages and profits, for employing the
invention in any machine sold prior to the service of the
injunction. A patentee, in demanding and receiving full
compensation for the wrongful use of his invention in
devices made and sold by a manufacturer adopts the sales
as though made by himself, and therefore, necessarily
licenses the use of the devices, and frees them from the
monopoly of the patent. This license continues during
the life of the machine; it does not end when repairs become necessary. Spare parts are needed for repairs.
Those here in question were sold for use in, and repair of,
machines marketed by the company before the service of
the injunction. Therefore, it is argued, the sale of these
parts is licensed and thus not a violation of the injunction. But to this argument which prevailed in the District Court, there are several answers; and, among them,
this: It does not appear that Wilson has received any
compensation whatever for the infringement by use of
these machines. Compare Birdsell v. Shaliol, 112 U. S.

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

485, 487-489. There was, consequently, no implied license to use the spare parts in these machines. As such
use, unless licensed, clearly constituted an infringement,
the sale of the spare parts to be so used violated the injunction. And the sale having been made with full
knowledge of all relevant facts, the Court of Appeals properly held that, so far as Wilson had sought remedial, as
distinguished from punitive action, the District Court was
not justified in purging the petitioner of contempt arising from the sale of spare parts.
Affirmed.
HEALD, EXECUTOR OF PETERS, v. DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 268. Argued April 13, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.
1. The objections that the act of Congress taxing the intangible
property of persons resident or engaged in business in the District
of Columbia, (c. 160, § 9, 39 Stat. 1046), is unconstitutional because
of its alleged application to intangible property, credits, etc., of
non-residents and to state and municipal bonds, cannot be raised
by persons who are residents and whose property taxed is within
the District and does not include such bonds. P. 122.
2. Whether a clause of this act respecting the exemption of the stock
of &ertaincompanies from the tax is void for uncertainty, held not
open for decision in a suit where it was not shown that any tax
was levied on the basis of it or that it subjected the plaintiff to
injury or embarrassment. P. 123.
3. Congress has power to tax residents of the District of Columbia
for support of the District Government and to cause the money to
be paid into the Treasury of the United States and held, not as a
separate fund for the District, but subject to the disposal of Congress, notwithstanding the fact that the persons taxed lack the
suffrage and have politically no voice in the expenditure of the
money. P. 124.
269 Fed. 1015; 50 App. D. C. 231, affirmed.

