WYOMING v. COLORADO.
Syllabus.

STATE OF WYOMING v. STATE OF COLORADO
ET AL.
IN

EQUITY.

No. 3, Original. Argued December 6, 7, 8, 1916; restored to docket
for reargument March 6, 1917; reargued January 9, 10, 11, 1918;
restored to docket for reargument June 6, 1921; reargued January
9, 10, 1922.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. The waters of an innavigable stream rising in one State and flowing
into a State adjoining may not be disposed of by the upper State
as she may choose, regardless of the harm that may ensue to the
lower State and her citizens. P. 466.
2. The relative rights of two adjoining States to the use of an innavigable interstate stream, must be determined in accordance
with right and equity and in harmony with the constitutional
principle of state equality. Pp. 465, 470.
3. This does not imply an equal division of the water between the
two States. P. 465. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46.
4. The doctrine of appropriation, by which priority of appropriation
gives superiority of right, affords the only equitable basis for determining this controversy, in which Wyoming seeks to prevent diversion of water from the headwaters of the Laramie River in Colorado for use in irrigating Colorado lands, to the detriment of prior
irrigation appropriations made from the same stream in Wyoming.
P. 467.
So held, in view of the early adoption and continual practice of the
doctrine in both jurisdictions alike, sanctioned by the United
States as owner of the public lands, its perpetuation in the constitutions of both States at the times of their creation as a doctrine
already existing and essential to their natural conditions, its relation to the settlement and irrigational and agricultural enterprises
in both, and the recognition in both of the right to appropriate
water from interstate streams.
5. In applying the doctrine of appropriation in this case, private
appropriations should be recognized in the order of their priority,
as they would be if the stream lay wholly in either State. Pp. 468,
470.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

6. Such recognition of private rights held not inappropriate in a suit
between the two States, in view of the relation of the appropriations to taxable values, and to the welfare, prosperity and happiness of people in each State. P. 468.
7. In as much as the doctrine of appropriation, as it exists within
these two States, was adopted, and practised from the beginning,
with the sanction of the United States as owner of the public lands,
and in as much as the United States does not now seek to impose
any policy of its own choosing on either State, the question
whether, in virtue of such ownership, it might do so, is not here
considered. P. 465.
8. The fact that the proposed diversion is to another watershed from
which Wyoming can receive no benefit is not in itself a valid
objection, since like diversions are made and recognized as lawful
in both States. P. 466.
9. The doctrine of appropriation lays upon each State a duty to
exercise her right reasonably and in a manner calculated to conserve the common supply. P. 484.
10. The evidence establishes:
(a) The average yearly flow of the Laramie River, in Wyoming, is
not a proper measure of the supply practically available there from
year to year. P. 471.
(b) Computation should be based on the unalterable need for a
supply that is fairly, constant and dependable, or susceptible of
being made so by storage and conservation within practicable
limits; substantial stability of supply being essential to successful
reclamation and irrigation. P. 480.
(c) The reasonable measure of the supply available in Wyoming for
practical use is not the lowest natural yearly flow, but something
considerably greater, obtainable by storage. P. 484.
(d) So measured, the entire supply, from the Laramie and from
certain tributaries in Wyoming, available for Wyoming appropriations here involved and for the proposed Colorado appropriation,
is 288,000 acre-feet per annum. P. 488.
(e) The Wyoming appropriations senior to the proposed Colorado
appropriation require 272,500 acre-feet, and the overplus available
for that appropriation is therefore restricted to 15,500 acre-feet,
per annum. P. 496.
11. Permits, issued by the State Engineer of Wyoming, to appropriate water in specified quantity from the stream, are mere
licenses, and not adjudications that a surplus subject to appropriation exists. P. 488.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

421

Argument for Wyoming.

12. The proposed Colorado appropriation is to be dated from the
time when the project became a fixed plan with a definite purpose,
and when work upon it was begun; not related back to an earlier
date, when the project was inceptive and uncertain; and, by the
same rule, several of the Wyoming appropriations are treated as
relating to dates later than those claimed for them. Pp. 490-495.

THIs was an original suit, brought in this court by the
State of Wyoming against the State of Colorado and two
Colorado corporations, for the purpose of preventing a
diversion of part of the water of the Laramie River, a
stream flowing from Colorado into Wyoming. The facts
are fully stated in the opinion, post, 455. The bill was
filed on May 29, 1911. A motion to dismiss, equivalent
to a demurrer, was argued and, on October 21, 1912, was
overruled without prejudice. The case was argued, and
twice reargued, on final hearing, the United States participating in the last two arguments, by leave of the court.
In the following summaries of the arguments made
upon the last occasion, discussion of the facts is for the
most part omitted.

Mr. N. E. Corthell and Mr. John W. Lacey, with whom
Mr. Douglas A. Preston, Attorney General of the State
of Wyoming, .4r. John D. Clark and Mr. Herbert V.
Lacey were on the briefs, for complainant.
In Colorado and Wyoming, and in every other State
where irrigation is practiced, it is held to be the only
equitable rule that the rights of a prior appropriator shall
be considered exclusive, and that he shall at all times take
from the stream such amount of water as he needs up to
the full amount of his appropriation, without any requirement that he divide with other appropriators in times of
scarcity. He is not obliged to build reservoirs, nor store
the water, but may take it from the stream as it was running when he first appropriated; he is not required to

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Wyoming.

259 U.S.

make any expenditures whatever, in order that others may
have water. Indeed, to require that he shall incur the
expense necessary in storing water would often be to destroy his priority, since the expense would be more than
the value of his prior right. 1 Wiel, Water Rights, 3d ed.,
§ 279; 2 Kinney, Irrigation, 2d ed., § 801, p. 1398; Conant
v. Deep Creek Co., 23 Utah, 627; Hill v. Smith, 27 Cal.
476, 482; Smith v. Denniff, 24 Mont. 20; Phoenix Water
Co. v. Fletcher, 23 Cal. 482; Wyatt v. Larimer & Weld
Co., 18 Colo. 298; Comstock v. Ramsey, 55 Colo. 244;
Barnes v. Sabron, 10 Nev. 217; Willey v. Decker, 11 Wyo.
496; Rev. Stats. § 2339; United States v. Rio Grande Co.,
174 U. S. 704.
The rights of the prior appropriator are especially
active in time of water deficiency. Avery v. Johnson, 59
Wash. 332; Huning v. Porter,6 Ariz. 171; 1 Wiel, Water
Rights, § 301.
In accordance with these principles, Wyoming, during
the irrigation season of each year, is entitled to the flow
of the stream as it may at the time naturally flow, up to
the amount necessary to supply the Wyoming appropriations that are prior in time to the inception of the Colorado attempt at diversion. All of the evidence, without
contradiction, shows that, in practically every year during
the irrigation season, the entire stream flow is not only
taken by the Wyoming prior appropriators but is necessary for the purposes of irrigating their lands; and in
many of the years-dry years as they are calledi-the
water in the stream is insufficient for the concededly prior
Wyoming appropriations. If the water were being diverted by Colorado into reservoirs within the watershed,
then the objection to such diversion would be less serious.
If it were diverted within the watershed, it would not be
difficult, under the Wyoming system, or indeed under any
system, to require the owners of the reservoir in the watershed into which the water is diverted to turn it back into

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Wyoming.

the stream for the use of the prior appropriators. But in
the case at bar, Colorado's diversion will take the water to
a place where it will be impossible to return it to the
stream, and therefore in every year when the water in the
stream may turn out to be less than the amount of the
prior Wyoming appropriations plus the Colorado diversion, irreparable wrong will be done to the Wyoming appropriators, and in most of the years the wrong will go to
the extent of entirely depriving many of the Wyoming
appropriators of water. But in not more than one year
in seven could any substantial fraction of seventy thousand acre-feet of water be taken during the irrigating
season without depriving the Wyoming prior appropriators of necessary water.
We submit, therefore, that, if the state line between
Colorado and Wyoming leaves the rights of appropriators
as if all were in the same State, it is clear that the Wyoming appropriators have the right to the water during practically every year; that the years when they will not need
it all cannot be ascertained in advance, and that the diversion as intended by Colorado, because of its character
and the place to which it will take the water, will in most
years cause such injury and damage as entitle the Wyoming appropriators to injunctive relief.
The question of the effect of state lines upon the rights
of appropriators in different States has been before the
courts of the arid region in a number of cases. The universal holding is, that priority of appropriation gives priority of right on interstate streams, the same as on streams
wholly within one State. Hoge v. Eaton,135 Fed. 411,414
(reversed on another point, 141 Fed. 64); Taylor v.
Hulett, 15 Idaho, 265; Conant v. Deep Creek Co., 23
Utah, 627; Wizley v. Decker, 11 Wyo. 496, 533; Farm Investment Co. v. Carpenter,9 Wyo. 110; Howell v. Johnson, 89 Fed. 556; Anderson v. Bassman, 140 Fed. 14;
Morrisv. Bean, 123 Fed. 618; 146 Fed. 423; 159 Fed. 651,

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Wyoming.

259 U. S.

655; Miller v. Rickey, 127 Fed. 573; 152 Fed. 11, 17; s. c.
218 U. S. 258; Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S. 485; 3 Kinney,
Irrigation, § 1225.
Both Colorado and Wyoming are at the crest of the
continent. They have both adopted to its broadest extent the doctrine of prior appropriation. And, whether
it can stand alongside the doctrine of riparian rights in
the same jurisdiction, (as it actually does in a majority
of the irrigation States), or is so antagonistic as to exclude
the latter, we believe that, for the purposes of the decision
of this case, the doctrine of prior appropriation must furnish the rule. The people of both States, by their constitutions, have declared that doctrine to be the just and
reasonable doctrine throughout the area involved in this
litigation, and, by their legislatures, have reiterated the
same doctrine, and provided numerous rules and regulations for carrying it out in both States. The courts in both
States have given their adherence, even to the extent of
saying that the rule was in force in each State long prior
to any constitutions or statutes on the subject. Therefore, so far as the parties here are concerned, that rule and
doctrine must be held reasonable and just, and neither
State could complain of its use in settling the controversy
here.
The facts in the case at bar would permit, and even
justify, a decision of this cause on the general principles
of prior appropriation, without deciding anything as to
the rights of different States whose differing climates have
caused the adoption of rules and principles differing in the
one State from those in the other.
We realize that the doctrine of prior appropriation is
not recognized in all the States, and that, if general principles are to be here decided, such as shall apply to all
interstate streams, and boundaries shall be here fixed to
the rights of differing States in interstate streams applicable to all circumstances, in reaching such universal prin-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Wyoming.

ciples and conclusions there are many and serious problems entirely outside of mere appropriation problems.
Waters falling in Colorado flow out of that State, some
to the Gulf of California, and some to the Gulf of Mexico;
and it would be entirely possible within that State to
construct diverting systems which would turn waters,
naturally tributary to the flow into the Gulf of Mexico,
into the streams emptying into the Gulf of California.
The States through which the waters would run, in case
of such diversion, would be different from those through
which they would run naturally. The same situation exists
in Wyoming, even to a greater degree. It would be entirely
possible in Wyoming to construct diversion works such as
would turn large bodies of the water from one great river
system into another. Each State receiving water from
Wyoming has great need for the water. In the case of at
least two of the systems, the water from Wyoming flows
into and through States which refuse to recognize rights
by prior appropriation as superior to riparian rights. In
some cases the needed flow from Wyoming is into States
which fully recognize the doctrine of prior appropriation.
We recognize that Wyoming, if allowed to divert the
waters from one stream and one system to another, could
inflict vast injury upon sister States. It may not be
amiss, therefore, for this court to consider in the decision
of this case, the general question of the effect of its
decision on the problems which would naturally grow out
of the attempt upon the. part of Wyoming or Colorado
to use within their own boundaries methods of diverting
water such as will become injurious to sister States.
The streams rising in Colorado and Wyoming but illustrate the very general character of the questions involved,
if rules are sought applicable universally to rights on interstate streams. The stream in the case at bar rises in
Colorado, and flows into and through Wyoming, and
thence into Nebraska, and on down into other States where

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Wyoming.

259 U. S.

the riparian-rights doctrine pure and simple is adopted.
The rights of Wyoming might easily be ground between
the upper and nether millstone, if Colorado should be
permitted to take a large share of the water on some general principle of prior appropriation, while at the same
time Nebraska and lower States could require Wyoming to
permit the waters to flow on down into the lower States,
practically undiminished in quantity.
The situation for Wyoming will be still worse-far
worse-if Colorado shall be permitted to ignore the
Wyoming rights acquired by prior appropriation, and,
also at the same time all riparian rights, by taking waters
for use not only within the watershed, but also without,
while leaving Nebraska and lower States the power to
compel Wyoming to yield to Nebraska riparian rights.
[Counsel then referred to decisions of the court in
Georgiav. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230; Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Rickey Land Co. v. Miller & Lux,
218 U. S. 258; Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S. 485; also to 3
Kinney, Irrigation, §§ 1225, 1227, 1230; to the opinion of
Attorney General Harmon, 21 Ops. Atty. Gen. 274, and a
letter of Mr. Evarts, 1 Moore, Int. Law Dig., 653, concerning the rights of this country and of Mexico to the waters
of the Rio Grande, and to the case of United States v. Rio
Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690, and the Treaty with MNexico of
May 21, 1906, 34 Stat. 2953.]
It is apparent that nothing in any of these quotations
or discussions draws in any clear way the lines bounding
the rights of a State, as distinguished from those of its
citizens, in the waters of an interstate stream. Nor is
there anything in any clear way marking out the principles upon which equitable division of waters shall be male
in such streams. These matters are left to be determined
by rules that may be worked out, or by analogies fIon.
rules governing such matters where the adjoining 1ropl ietors, instead of being States, are individuals. Sotno of dtw

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Wyoming.

suggestions of this court seem to hint that such rules
"may be more or less analogous to common-law rights
between upper and lower proprietors." (218 U. S. 258.)
A just criticism has often been made on precedents
established in interstate relations, to the effect that many
such precedents are almost solely the result of vis major.
It is to be hoped that the tendencies in dealings between
States are in the direction of principles of right and
justice; in other words, equitable principles. When such
principles are sought and applied in international relations, they are found to approximate more and more
closely the equitable principles governing relations between individuals.
The parties to this controversy are not permitted to
make war upon, nor even to make treaties with, one
another. Their controversy is, therefore, brought to this
court to be here determined. If the case is to be ruled
by principles of law already discovered, so far as we can
see they are ruled by principles governing between private
persons. The precedents as to international rights on
international streams are scarcely sufficient upon which to
base any rule, and, such as they are, they are contradictory; even this Government contending, now that
riparian rights govern when diversions of water were
made within the boundaries of a foreign government, and
again contending that the foreign government has no
right to complain when diversions were made within the
boundaries of this country, and still later, while in words
protesting that it was not doing so, in deeds recognizing
the rights of those injured by diversions within our
territories.
The Roman law, as appears from the Pandects of
Justinian, adopted the principles of riparian. rights, and
apparently allowed something in the way of irrigation and
of equitable division of waters for that purpose. The
same is true of the Code Napoleon, Art. 644, and of the

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Wyoming.

259 U. S.

Mexican law at the time of the acquisition of our Mexican
territory, including Colorado and large parts of Wyoming.
1 Wiel, Water Rights, pp. 68, 685, 1026. But in all these
jurisdictions, while water was to an extent used for irrigation, riparian rights were held superior to rights for
irrigation.
It is needless to cite authority to show that in Great
Britain, and in most of the States of the Union, while
there has been some limited right to use water for irrigation, still the rights of the riparian proprietor are superior. In all the jurisdictions above mentioned, the riparian proprietor had the right to insist thaf the use of water
should not unreasonably reduce the flow of the stream,
should be confined within the watershed, and the surplus
be returned to the stream.
There are eighteen of our own States and Territories
which may be denominated generally the irrigation States,
inasmuch as in each there is more or less of arid
land requiring irrigation, and the laws recognize, more or less,
irrigation rights. In ten of these, while the use of waters
of streams for irrigation is permitted, the riparian proprietor is recognized as having the superior right, and the
waters are not permitted to be diverted by the irrigators
beyond the watershed; but the surplus must be returned
to the original stream. 1 Wiel, Water Rights, p. 849; 1
Kinney, Irrigation, p. 782; 2 Farnham, Waters, p. 1572;
3 id., p. 1903; Wiggins v. Water Co., 113 Cal. 182; Bathgate v. Irvine, 125 Cal. 135; Southern California Co. v.
Wilshire, 144 Cal. 68; Anaheim Water Co. v. Fuller, 150
Cal. 327; Clark v. Allaman, 71 Kans. 206; Watkins Land
Co. v. Clements, 98 Tex. Civ. App. 578; MatagordaCo. v.
Markham Co., 154 S. W. 1176.
In the other seven irrigating States, viz., Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, and Wyoming,
fuller rights of appropriation are recognized, and apparently the right is recognized to take water outside the

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Wyoming.

watershed, even over the objections of those within it.
But in none of these States is any diversion from the
watershed permitted on any principle of equitable division,
even remotely expressed or implied. On the contrary,
each of these States insists upon the doctrine that the
rights of a prior appropriator are exclusive, even to the
full extent of his prior appropriation. No division of the
waters which would take anything from the prior appropriator to his injury is recognized as in any sense equitable.
This court, in Kansas v. Colorado, reached a conclusion
that, on the facts in that case, equitable division of the
waters was a reasonable principle, as between adjoining
States on an interstate stream. As we understand that
case, this principle of equitable division was not evolved
as a new principle, but was a mere application of the
doctrine of equitable division as between private riparian
owners. No rules for equitable division were there laid
down, nor were any such rules even discussed, excepting
by a reference to rules of division between riparian owners.
The equitable division was all within the watershed.
No question arose there of permitting such division as
would carry waters without the watershed. One would
search in vain for any doctrine of equitable division of
waters which would permit one proprietor to carry the
waters without the watershed, with no obligation to return them to the stream, in any State or country administering the rule of riparian rights. In the seven States,
possibly the most arid, as we have seen, no doctrine of
equitable division of the waters is allowed.
It is interesting, moreover, to note that there are at least
tendencies in some of these States, constituting the seven
last above mentioned, to recognize rights of owners along
the stream and to restrict the diversion beyond the watershed. Nevada Laws, 1907, c. 18, § 4, p. 31; New Mexico

430

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

Laws, 1907, c. 49, § 72, p. 95; Hutchison v. Watson Ditch
Co., 16 Idaho, 484; Anderson v. Bassman, 140 Fed. 14.
This court has in many cases considered the rights of
States as against one another. Missouri v. Illinois, 180
U. S. 208; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S.
230; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S.46, and
cases cited by these. It is clearly established by this court
that a State does not have a right to do acts within her
own borders vwhich shall affirmatively cause injury in another State. The question of the sovereign right of Colorado to take the waters as she will, is one so fully settled
by this court that, even if the principle claimed by Colorado were much better founded, in reason, we should not
feel it necessary to discuss it further.
Mr. Victor E. Keyes, Attorney General of the State of
Colorado, Mr. Delph E. Carpenterand Mr. Platt Rogers,
with whom Mr. Leslie E. Hubbard,Mr. Fred Farrar,Mr.
JuliusC. Gunter and Mr. Ralph E. C. Kerwin were on the
briefs, for defendants.The rights of the States here involved necessarily include the rights and claims of their respective citizens.
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S.46, 85. It is as though the
controversy were between independent Nations. Missouri
v. Illinois, 180'U. S.208; 200 U. S.496; Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46; Rickey Land Co. v.
Miller & Lux, 218 U. S. 258; Georgiav. Tennessee Copper
Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237, 238. Nations have absolute dominion of everything within their boundaries, including
the waters, and the property rights of the individual are
1

The case was argued on behalf of the defendants, at the hearing

in 1916, by Messrs. Farrar (then Attorney General of Colorado),
Carpenterand Gunter; and at the hearing in 1918, by Messrs. Hubbard (then Attorney General of Colorado), Farrar,Carpenter and
Rogers.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Colorado.

such only as the State may grant him. Vattel, Law of
Nations (Chitty ed., 1872) pp. 53, 120, 123, 125, 148, 149,
163, 164; The Exchange, 7 Cr. 116, 136; Rhode Island v.
Massachusetts, 12 Pet. 657, 733, 734.
Each State of the Union, new or original, has the same
unlimite d jurisdiction over persons and things within its
territorial limits as any Nation, where that jurisdiction
has not been surrendered to the United States by the
Constitution. New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 139;
Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 435; Texas v. White,
7 Wall. 700, 725; Taylor, Int. Law, § 124; Whart. Dig.
Int. Law, § 1; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 722; Kansas v.
Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 93.
Each of the new States is possessed of the same powers
and jurisdiction over the streams within its borders as
were retained by the original States, and the sovereign
powers exercised by Congress over the Territories passed
to the new States upon their admission, including jurisdiction of streams within their borders, with the right to
determine the use that may be made -of their waters by
individuals, except as Congress may control navigation.
The uses recognized as limited property rights in the citizen have been determined by each State according to its
own necessities, and fixed by its local laws and decisions;
and the United States and its courts have adopted the
state laws, regulations and court decisions, as the rules
controlling within their respective jurisdictions. Congress, whenever it has legislated upon the subject with
respect to public lands, has specifically recognized these
local laws, customs and court decisions as controlling the
regulation of streams within the States.
From the earliest decisions of this court to the present
time, all uses of water for navigation, fisheries, power,
domestic, irrigation, and other beneficial purposes, have
been treated as within the sovereign jurisdiction and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

trol of the several States, save alone for the federal control
of navigation.'
Acts of Congress and decisions of the courts and the
Land Department, declare the jurisdiction of the public
land States over the waters within their domain, in so far
as the United States is concerned.2
'Willson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Martin v.
Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, 409, 410; Pollard v. Hagan, 3 How. 212, 220,
221; Holyoke Co. v. Lyman, 15 Wall. 500; Barney v. Keokuk, 94
U. S. 324; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Pound v. Turck, 95
U. S. 459; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S. 678; Cardwell v.
American Bridge Co., 113 U. S. 205; St. Louis v. Myers, 113 U. S.
566; Hamilton v. Vicksburg, S. & P. R. R., 119 T. S. 280; Wllamette
Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S. 1; Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519; Ward v. Race Horse, 163 U. S. 504; Manchester v. Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 380;
Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay Canal Co., 142 U. S. 254;
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U.' S. 1, and cases cited; Grand Rapids &
Indiana R. R. Co. v. Butler, 159 U. S. 87; Lake Shore d Michigan
Southern Ry. Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 365; St. Anthony Falls Co. v.
Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; United States FreeholdLand &
Emigration Co. v. Diego Gallegos, (U. S. C. C., Colo., 1898); United
States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690, 702-6; Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U. S. 545, 552, 553; Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S.
361; Manigaultv. Springs, 199 U. S. 473; Whitaker v. McBride, 197
U. S. 510; Bacon v. Walker, 204 U. S. 311; Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46; Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230;
Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349; s. c. 70 N. J.
Eq. 525, 695; 3 Kinney, Irrigation, 2d ed., p. 2224; Waldbridge v.
Robinson, 22 Idaho, 240; Boqullas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S.
339; McGilvra v. Ross, 215 U. S. 70; Synder v. Gold Dredging Co.,
181 Fed. 62; Marshall Dental Co. v. Iowa, 226 U. S. 460; Scott v.
Lattig, 227 U. S. 229; United States v. Cress, 243 U. S. 316.
'Acts of July 26, 1866, 14 Stat. 253; July 9, 1870, 16 Stat. 218;
March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377; March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 1095; August
18, 1894, 28 Stat. 422; March 2, 1897, 29 Stat. 603; February 26,
1897, 29 Stat. 599; June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388; February 21, 1911,
36 Stat. 925; Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Basey v. Gallagher,
20 Wall. 670; Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274; Jennison v. Kirk,
98 U. S. 453, 456; United States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690;

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Colorado.

The Colorado enabling act and the proclamation of the
President, admit the State to the Union "on an equal footing with the original States in all respects whatsoever."
18 Stat. 474; 19 Stat. 665. The constitution, made in
pursuance of the enabling act, and approved by the proclamation, declares that the water of every natural stream,
not already appropriated, is the property of the public
and dedicated to use of the people of the State, subject to
appropriation as provided. It thus appears that, on her
very admission, and as a part of the solemn transaction,
Colorado asserted her full sovereign dominion over the
waters of her streams, and that this assertion was then and
there approved by the United States. These provisions
of her constitution have been many times upheld by her
courts;" and her claim to full jurisdiction over the waters
within her borders has been repeatedly asserted by her
legislature. (Citing many acts.) Wyoming has assumed
the same attitude.2 She, likewise, refuses to permit the
diversion of waters in Wyoming for use in other jurisdictions.
The two States, therefore, are at one, in asserting
full and exclusive sovereign control; in permitting usufructuary rights to their citizens according to the appropriation doctrine; and in denying these privileges to other
States and their citizens.
Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U. S. 545; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Boquillas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339;
Twin Falls Canal Co. v. Foo e, 192 Fed. 583; Stanfield v. Umatilla
River Water Users Assn., 192 Fed. 596; Withdrawal of Public Lands
for IrrigationPurposes,32 L. D. 254.
'See Wheeler v. Northern Colorado Irrig. Co., 10 Colo. 582; Ft.
Morgan Co. v. South Platte Co., 18 Colo. 1; Stockman v. Leddy,
55 Colo. 24.
'Wyo. Const., Art. VIH, §§ 1-5; Wyo. Comp. Stats. 1910, § 724,
p. 247; FarmInvestment Co. v. Carpenter,9 Wyo. 110; (distinguishing Willey v. Decker, 11 Wyo. 496); Grover Irrig. Co. v. Lovella
Ditch Co., 21 Wyo. 204.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

It might be said that the United States, in admitting
these States with their constitutions as they are, gave
recognition to their claims amounting to a grant. Farm
Investment Co. v. Carpenter,9 Wyo. 110. But their jurisdictions and rights are not so dependent, but rest directly
on the Federal Constitution. Stockman v. Leddy, 55
Colo. 24; Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; United States
v. Hanson, 167 Fed. 881.
The doctrines of riparian rights and of appropriation
are local rules for determining the private rights of citizens in particular States-usufructuary rights in the property of the State, which, in the final analysis, must yield
to the will of the State and her eminent domain.'
They have no extra-territorial force, either for or against
the State. Story, Conflict of Laws, c. 2, pp. 19-34;
Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714, 720. The State has an
interest, independent of and behind the title of its citizens. Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, 99; Hudson Water Co.
v. McCarter,209 U. S. 349, 354-357.
That private rights in waters of interstate streams cannot determine the rights of States inter sese, is recognized
in Rickey Land Co. v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S. 2.58, 260,
261; and Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S. 485. The assumption
of concurrence or acquiescence made in those cases,
whereby rights might be acquired in one State for enjoyment or use in another, cannot be applied in the case of
Colorado. And the question of constitutional protection,
passed in Bean v. Morris, supra, 488, cannot arise here,
since, with the exception of one small appropriation, no
'(a) Riparian rights. 3 Kent Com., § 439; 2 Black. Com., pp. 14,

18; McCarterv. Hudson Water Co, 70 N. J. Eq. 525; 70 N. J. Eq.
695; s. c. 209 U. S. 349, 355; St. Anthony Falls Co. v. Water Commissioners, 168 U. S. 349; Whitaker v. McBride, 197 U. S. 510, 511.
(b) Rights by appropriation. United States v. Rio Grande Co.,
174 U. S. 690, 702; Kansas v. Colorado,_206 U. S. 46, 94.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

435

Argument for Colorado.

use whatever had been made of the waters of the Laramie
River prior to the admission of Colorado, in 1876; and
substantially all of the Wyoming development has occurred since that date, and a large part subsequent to the
Colorado project here complained of.
Even were we to assume that Colorado had not, since
1876, expressly denied recognition of all extra-territorial
claims, the fact remains that there is no concurrence of
laws upon which to base a presumption of interstate servitudes. Both States assert full ownership and control over
the waters within their borders and abolish the system of
riparian rights. Beyond this the systems diverge.
The doctrines of riparian rights and of appropriation
both are fundamentally inapplicable to the regulation of
rights between States, which stand upon an equality "in
all respects whatever," to the same degree as independent
Nations. Each State depends for its existence primarily
upon its natural resources, of which water, in the arid
regions, is frequently the most valuable. Self defense
compels the State to withhold its resources for the benefit
of future as well as present generations and for the welfare and perpetuity of the State. With independent
Nations, these natural resources, if need require, must be
defended by the sword. But with States of the Union
this court must determine the controversy. Kansas v.
Colorado, 185 U. S. 125; 206 U. S. 46; Missouriv. Illinois,
180 U. S. 208; 200 U. S. 496.
If the rule of riparian rights were to control-the settlement of this controversy, Colorado would be forever deprived of all but the most insignificant use of her own
waters in the Laramie, and her fertile but arid lands
would remain forever unproductive, by reason of the fact
that only the lands of the narrow mountain valleys in
Colorado are riparian; and these waters, imperative to
her present and future development and welfare, would

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

pass forever into Wyoming, there to be used, enjoyed
or wasted, or pass to the sea. On the other hand, by
the .doctrine of appropriation, if physical conditions had
permitted, all waters of this stream, those rising in Wyoming included, might have been diverted within the latter
State, and carried into and applied to land in Colorado;
and, if all this were prior to Wyoming developments, Colorado could forever after prevent Wyoming from the use,
not only of the Colorado waters, but of those rising in
Wyoming as well.
Canals and diversion works are usually first constructed
where no natural obstacles interfere. Infant Nations or
States can little afford to undertake projects which, in
their later history, their accumulated energies often accomplish with apparent ease. Prior appropriation is very
frequently the accident of physical location; and, were
the rule to apply between States, their destiny would be
determined, not by their present or future necessities for
use of their natural resources, but rather by accident.
While, to be sure, the rule does apply to individuals within
the State, in their case the preference of the first taker is
within the governmental powers of the State; and, in
disposing of its resources to the most ultimate good, inasmuch as the water, if parceled among the many, would
benefit no one, the State may determine to whom the exclusive use may be given, in order ultimately to bring to
the State and its people the greatest benefit with the least
waste; and, furthermore, the State, whenever it may so
desire, by the power of eminent domain, may take away
all vested usufructuary rights and establish some new plan
adapted to future conditions, only perhaps in the future
to again condemn and establish still a different order of
things.
But we can not agree that among Nations or States,
with equal powers and sovereign rights, one may claim
through its citizens, by mere first use, a preferred and

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Colorado.

exclusive right perpetually to use for its benefit waters
rising within and flowing from the domain of its neighbor,
thereby to deny forever to the Nation or State of origin a
part or all of the benefit of its own stream, be its necessities ever so great. Waters that rise and flow from one State
into another are forever lost to the former unless there
used, and any rule which forbids this use denies to that
State the benefit of its inherent sovereign right to enjoy
its own and maintain itself within its domain. It would
be, in effect, to invade and take the domain of one State
and to give it to another, without consent or compensation. It would be the assertion by a foreign State of
jurisdiction over a portion of the domain of another
State.
The usufructuary rights of the individual citizen of
Wyoming are defined by the constitution, laws and decisions of the courts of that State. But the local law of
Wyoming can have no extra-territorial effect, and especially when prejudicial to the rights of other States.
Story, Conflict of Laws, § 32, p. 29; Farnumv. Blackstone
Canal Co., 1 Sumner, 46, 62; The Exchange, 7 Cr. 116,
136; Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 176; Hilton v. Guyot,
159 U. S. 113. One State cannot expropriate property
within the territory of another State. I Whart. Int. Law
Digest, pp. 38, 39; Crosby v. Hanover, 36 N. H. 404, 423;
Holyoke Water Co. v. Connecticut River Co., 52 Conn.
570, 575, 576; McCarter v. Hudson Water Co., 70 N. J.
Eq. 695, 717.
The fundamental rule that one Nation cannot exercise
its sovereign power and jurisdiction over the waters or
domain of another Nation without its consent and cannot
expropriate the waters of an upper Nation for the use of
the lower Nation by claim of prior appropriation, even on
an international river, has been recognized and followed
by the United States in its relations with Mexico. 21
Ops. Atty. Gen. 280-283. When the United States, as a

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

matter of international policy but not of international
law, settled the differences over the Rio Grande with
Mexico, it took the precaution so to word the treaty that
the adjustment could never be taken as a recognition of
any lawful claims by Mexico. Treaty of May 1, 1906,
Art. V, 34 Stat. 2953.
As we understand the term "equal," when used with
reference to the States, it refers to that equality in the
family of States which obtains with Nations in the family
of Nations. Each State has an equal right, not only to
govern itself, but as well to maintain itself and improve
its domain, increase in population and promote for the
present and for all time the general welfare of itself and
its citizens. But if, (purely by way of illustration) we
were to use a narrower construction, and say that equal
States have the right to enjoy an equal part of an interstate stream, even then the doctrine of appropriation is
inapplicable, for it takes from one State an exclusive
(not equal) portion of the waters of the stream, and gives
it to the other without .remuneration.
Priority is a rule of the past and not of the future.
States must look to the future more than to the past.
Hudson Water Co.v. McCarter,209 U. S.349, 355. The
State may find its future needs so imperative that it must
extinguish, by eminent domain, even the usufructuary
property rights it has permitted its citizens, and take the
waters for a greater need. How, then, could the limited
right of a State, determined upon rules of priority of appropriation, as regards another State, be reconciled with
its future imperative necessities?
How solve the problem, if one State has adopted the
law of appropriation and the other the modified doctrine
of riparian rights? What would be the result, if the principle of appropriation were applied as between two appropriation States and, thereafter, one should change and
adopt the common-law doctrine of riparian rights? De-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Colorado.

termination of the rights of the various appropriators in
the two States upon the basis of priority would be thrown
into complete confusion. Neither State can legislate for
or impose its own policy upon the other; Congress cannot
enforce either rule upon any State.
The unnecessary loss, occasioned by depriving the State
of origin of control of its waters, and by causing the water
to pass down losing streams in order to supply some prior
appropriator in another State, would appear to be wasteful, and inept, and so inequitable and unjust.
Could any advocate of the doctrine of appropriation regardless of state lines advance any hypothesis upon which
a stream and its tributaries, like the Colorado River, flowing within or bordering six States and a foreign country,
could be administered, and the water apportioned to the
various appropriators in the seventeen hundred or more
miles of its length, upon the basis of priority of appropriation?
If priority of right regardless of state lines is the principle which governs this controversy, how are the rights of
the respective individuals in Wyoming and Colorado to be
determined, having due regard to the conflicting laws of
each State; and, after determination, how are they to be
enforced? Possibly this court might appoint an officer or
direct a United States marshal to organize a body of men
to police the stream and divide the water according to the
priorities which this court might undertake to adjudicate;
but the very suggestion shows the absurdity of the contention. No such procedure was ever in contemplation
either by Congress or by the respective States where
water is used for irrigation. The entire adjudication and
administration of priorities is founded, and has been constructed, on the theory of state control, and is utterly in
conflict with any other theory. Manifestly, the doctrine
of priority of appropriation does not adapt itself to interstate questions. Diversion and uses of water under the
rule of priority require the most rigid police regulation.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

The state courts, understanding as they do the local
conditions and necessities, are in the best position to
adjust conflicts between individual appropriators. But,
if priorities must obtain irrespective of state lines, local
courts will be shorn of their jurisdiction and some other
court or tribunal will of necessity assume the task. The
difficulties are greatly enlarged when appropriations by
reservoirs and the complicated system of exchanging
water are taken into the account. Taking the Platte River
and its branches, for illustration, it may be estimated that
administration under the rule of priority, irrespective of
state lines, would require readjudication and police regulation of upwards of 4,000 diversions already established
and decreed by state authorities in Colorado, Wyoming
and Nebraska, and, in the years to come, probably a like
number of new and now more or less incomplete enterprises. In view of the fact that the right of each appropriator is limited to his actual necessities each day, and
that his diversions must constantly be regulated and restricted accordingly; and in view of the complications
arising from exchanges and other administrative features
existing upon each of the tributaries, as well as upon the
stream itself; it is self-evident that the difficulties confronting interstate administration of the Platte River
would become so involved that, to give each appropriator
his just dues, and no more, and at the particular time his
necessities demanded, would be next to impossible. If
such should be declared to be the rule, the rights of all
must be protected and enforced, the least must receive
the same consideration as the greatest, and that, too, at
the particular time when the crop demands water in order
that loss may be avoided.
Yet state officials and tribunals are confined in power
to their own borders, and bound by local laws, rules and
regulations. They can not adjust conflicting claims or
determine rights of foreign users. Different systems in

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for Colorado.

different States invite irreconcilable conflict and insoluble
administrative problems.
If this court should decide that the private usufructuary
rights of the individual appropriators preclude the States
from asserting greater rights to the river, and that priority
shall obtain irrespective of state lines, then such rights
must be adjudicated by the court in this and similar cases.
This would necessitate a determination not of the rights
of the States, but of each individual claimant; and the
rights of each, great or small, would have to be separately
considered and passed upon. The mere suggestion of the
problem portrays the insurmountable obstacles to be
encountered.
Then, too, conditions are constantly changing. New
and conflicting rules and laws may become imperative in
Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming. Who then shall enact
these laws? The subject is no longer within the control
of the States, because their jurisdiction has been denied
them. Congress cannot legislate, for it has no power so
to do. 206 U. S. 90-92. The canals divert waters from
streams washing lands long since passed into private
hands, and not public lands of the United States. This
court cannot legislate. Who then shall remedy the evil
or supply the new rule?
It would seem, from the opinion in Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46, that any doctrine of equitable apportionment of the waters of rivers between States must be
founded upon a broad basis of equitable consideration of
all the facts of each case as they appear, with full regard
to the equal rights of States of equal dignity, powers and
jurisdiction, and not upon the narrower basis of local laws
governing mere usufructuary rights of private citizens.
But even though we here construe that decision within
the narrower limits and assume an equal apportionment
of the waters of the stream, we here find that the Laramie
River rises not in one but in both States. The waters of

442

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Colorado.

259 U. S.

the Wyoming part of the stream, as well as those of the
Colorado branch, are available to Wyoming and her citizens. On the other hand natural conditions are such that
Colorado is limited to use of but a part (91/250) of the
waters of that branch which rises and flows within her
borders. Whatever the injury might be to Wyoming
(though none has been proved), this would not appear to
be an inequitable use of her own resources by Colorado.
A greater degree of caution is manifest in such controversies as this, than would obtain in suits between citizens
within the same or different jurisdictions. The complaining State should be required to establish the injury and its
right to relief upon the clearest and most indisputable
testimony, before this court would be warranted in preventing the other State from exercising its sovereign control over its natural resources. Missouri v. Illinois, 180
U. S. 208, 248.
Wyoming has wholly failed to prove the allegations of
her bill, and even more, has by her own conduct denied
her charges against Colorado by permitting appropriations for and authorizing construction of many new and
enormous enterprises in Wyoming, long junior to the Colorado enterprise of which she complains and drawing water
from the same stream; and, irrespective of other conclusive proof, has thereby admitted that there was and is
ample water in the stream to supply all appropriations
junior, as well as senior, to the Colorado enterprise, and
that no injury could result to senior appropriations in
Wyoming by reason of the Colorado diversion; and that
by her official acts, she has contributed to the very depletion whereof she complains. Further, the proof shows
that, not only is there ample water in the stream for use
of all Wyoming enterprises, but, as well, that Wyoming
needlessly wastes more water than will be withdrawn from
the stream by Colorado. And, furthermore, the proof
reveals, without contradiction, that Wyoming is not only

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

443

Argument for the United States.

diverting from the drainage of the Cache la Poudre over
into that of the Laramie, but generally recognizes and permits such diversions, by official sanction and decrees of her
courts, within her own territory, and by means thereof she
has been able to effect her most valuable reclamation and
development. No proof was offered in support of her claims
as a riparian owner and, on the other hand, by her constitution, laws and decisions of her courts, she has abolished
and denied any such; and, lastly, she has offered no sufficient proof whereby this court could adjudicate and determine the relative rights of appropriation within either
Wyoming or Colorado, if such a rule as she alleges were
here applied.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor GeneralBeck and Mr. John F. Truesdell, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States. 1
The attitude of the executive branch of the Government
is, briefly, that the United States has not surrendered to
the States or parted in any way with its original right
to use the surplus waters (those not appropriated by
others under its own laws) of innavigable streams in the
Western States; that the United States is, and always
has been, since the cession of the territories now comprised in those States, the owner of all the unappropriated
and surplus waters; that the appropriated waters there
have been granted by the United States under its own
laws, using local customs and state laws as subordinate
instrumentalities only; that the rights of the States, both
as the actual owners of lands granted to them and as the
ultimate owners of the property of their citizens, so far as
'Mr. Solicitor General Davis argued the case on behalf of the
United States, at the hearing in 1918. Mr. Assistant Attorney General Kearful, Mr. Truesdell, and Mr. Ethelbert Ward, Special Assist-

ant to the Attorney General, were with him on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

they may be said to be such owners, are confined to such
water rights as have been granted by the United States
to them or their citizens under the laws of Congress; and
that controversies such as this should be decided upon the
basis of such federal grants, and without regard to state
boundaries.
As for the effect of these questions upon the public interests and governmental policies of the United States, we
think it sufficient here to call attention to the vast areas
of land still belonging to the United States; to the fact
that much of it is in the arid region where land without
water to irrigate it, is of little value; to the federal reclamation policy, which depends upon federal use of both
land and water and often upon federal use of interstate
streams; to the federal Indian policy, where the Government's ability to protect its Indian wards depends largely
upon its ownership and control of the waters on reservations and other Indian lands; and, finally, to the fact that,
if the water on these public lands be held to belong to the
States, the Federal Government will be at the mercy of the
States and be helpless as to these policies in a very real
sense, because, while under our system the States are represented in and have a powerful influence upon the Federal Government, the United States is not in any way represented in the States, and, both theoretically and as a
practical matter can not control or even influence their
action.
The United States retains its original plenary ownership of the right of use of innavigable waters in the Western States, except in so far as it has parted with it through
acts of Congress; and this property, like the property in
the public lands generally, is wholly immune from state
interference or control. The state power affects only those
rights which have been granted by Congress.
We respectfully suggest the necessity of keeping separately in mind the two questions of, first, whether the

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for the United States.

United States or the States own the right of use of the innavigable waters in the Western States, and, second, the
effect of a decision of that question upon the rights of
these two opposing States in the waters of an interstate
stream. It is our contention that federal ownership controls, and offers a logical and workable solution of this
question of rights between the States; but, even if we
should be wrong in this, we deefa it clear that the United
States owns the right of use of the waters in and on its
public lands within the States, just as it owns the lands
themselves, and that such ownership should not be thrown
in doubt by any decision as to the broader question of the
rights between States.
Upon the acquisition of the territory now comprised
within the Western States, the United States became
vested with all property rights in that territory except
vested private rights and such Indian rights as the United
States might choose to recognize. Therefore, whatever
property rights exist in water in that territory, whether
the water be navigable or innavigable, belonged to the
United States until the creation of the States; and, furthermore, such rights are still federal property, notwithstanding the creation of the States unless, first, they are
of such a character as to go to the States upon their mere
creation as such and because of the character of state
sovereignty, or unless, second, they have been granted to
the States or to private persons under acts of Congress.
Property rights in navigable waters and their shores and
beds become vested in the States on their creation, as a
part of their sovereignty, but the rule is different as to
nonnavigable waters and their places of occurrence. The
States take no property rights in them. Such waters are
not publici juris, and title to their use is the same as title
to land.
Because of its fugitive nature, the only property rights
which exist in water in its natural state are rights of use,

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

the corpus being only susceptible of ownership while in
possession. This corpus while in possession is personal
property, but the right of use of the water in its natural
state is a real property right of the highest dignity and
value. Tyler v. Wilkinson, 4 Mason, 397; Embrey v.
Owen, 6 Ex. 352; 20 L. J. Ex. 212; Hargravev. Cook, 108
Cal. 72; Smith v. Rochester, 92 N. Y. 463, 480; Gardner
v. Newburgh, 2 Johns. Ch. 162, 166; Insurance Co. v.
Childs, 25 Colo. 360, 363; Davis v. Randall, 44 Colo.
488, 492. 3 Kent. Com. p. 439; Wiel, Water Rights,
3d ed., p. 755; § 711, p. 777 et seq., and numerous cases
cited; § 283, p. 298; § 285, p. 301; Long, Irrigation, 2d
ed., § 34, p. 70; 2 Kinney, Irrigation, 2d ed., § 769, p. 1328;
Washburn, Easements, 4th ed., pp. 316, 317; 2 Washburn,
Real Property, 6th ed., § 1284.
Because of the necessity of protecting the public interests therein (mainly navigation and fishery), property
rights in navigable waters in. England belonged prima
facie to the Crown; and in this country they belong prima
facie to the municipal sovereignties, the States. The
Federal Government, though having full control (underthe commerce clause) for purposes of foreign and interstate navigation, has no right of property in such waters,
or their shores or beds, except as it derives it from the
States, either by grant or under operation of state law.
Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 15, 46, 48; Hardin v.
Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 381; United States v. ChandlerDunbarCo., 229 U. S.53, 63; United States v. Rio Grande
Co., 174 U. S. 690.
he crux of the question we are examining is whether
innavigable waters are publici juris, like navigable waters.
Ownership by the States depends upon showing that they
are. Such waters are not publici juris and ownership of
usufructuary rights therein rests upon the same basis and
is of the same character as ownership of land. In the first
place, it is to be noted that it is now decided beyond any

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for the United States.

further possibility of question that the beds and shores
of innavigable streams and lakes, even though they are
meandered, are owned as ordinary upland is owned, and
are not owned by the States. Title to such lands in the
public land States comes from the United States and not
from the States. Hardinv. Shedd, 190 U. S. 508. The
fact that this court holds that the grantee of the upland
from the United States takes to the thread of the stream
or not in accordance with the state law, using such law as
a rule of convenience merely, in no way weakens this
statement. The title comes from the United States, and
it is perfectly competent for Congress to change this rule
of convenience applied to the grants of the United States
if it sees fit. [Cf. Oklahoma v. Texas, 258 U. S. 574;
Brewer-Elliott Oil Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 77.
Reporter.]
As to the property rights in these innavigable waters
themselves, it is to be observed, first, that diffused surface waters and all underground waters were originally
looked upon by the law as part and parcel of the soil, and
as belonging to its owner. The tendency now is to recognize these waters as distinct from the soil, and as being
susceptible of ownership, when out of possession, only as
to usufructuary rights therein. Furthermore, the tendency is to treat such rights, not only as interlocking with
the rights in the streams and lakes which the underground
waters support, but also (even, we think, in the pure
appropriation States) as belonging to the several owners
of the lands which have access to them. Wiel, Water
Rights, §§ 1090, 1124.
Turning to the innavigable surface streams and lakes,
it will be found that, in England, it was recognized, at
least as early as Lord Hale's time; that the proprietary
right in the use and flow of such waters was not in the
Crown. Unlike navigable waters, they did not at common law belong prima facie, or of common right, to the

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1921,
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

sovereign, but did so belong to private persons just as
land did. The rule was, and is, the same in our original
States; and so, following the same principle upon which
this court decided that navigable waters and their shores
and beds go to the new States, as well as to the original
ones, since it is the States which under our system are the
possessors of municipal sovereignty (Pollardv. Hagan, 3
How. 212, 229, and Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1), we
see that neither the new States, nor the original thirteen,
have any property rights in innavigable waters by virtue
of their sovereignty, or have any different kind of power
whatever over them than they have over land. Smith v.
Rochester, 92 N. Y. 463, 473; Gardner v. Newburgh, 2
Johns Ch. 162, 166; Lord Hale's de Jure Marls, with Judge
Cowan's note to Ex parte Jennings, 6 Cow. 536, 539-546;
Watuppa Reservoir Co. v. Fall River, 147 Mass. 548, 554,
555, 558, 561; Home of Aged Women v. Commonwealth,
202 Mass. 422, 433-434; Opinions of Justices, 118 Me.
503, 506, 507; Wadsworth v. Smith, 11 Me. 278, 280, 281;
Chapman v. Kimball, 9 Conn. 38, 40, 41; Barclay R. R.
Co. v. Ingham, 36 Pa. St. 194, 200, et seq; Angell, Water
Courses, 6th ed., pars. 2, 535; Gould, Waters, 3d ed., par.
46; Cobb v. Davenport,32 N. J. L. 369; Simmons v. Paterson, 60 N. J. Eq. 385, 389; Attorney Generalv. Delaware
&c. R. R. Co., 27 N. J. Eq. 631, 638; Doremus v. Paterson,
65 N. J. Eq. 711, 712. Contra, in part: McCarterv. Hudson Water Co., 70 N. J. Eq. 695, affirmed by this court
on other and broader grounds. 209 U. S. 349.
General expressions by some of the early writers, and
also the existence of prescriptive rights, for a time left
some doubt as to whether water, as such, was not publici
juris, and also as to whether the riparian owner's right to
divert the waters on which his land bordered was not
dependent in some way upon actual appropriation.
Whatever doubt existed in that respect was put at rest In
England by a series of cases of which Mason v. Hill, 5

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for the United States.

Barn. & Adol. 1, 23, 24, decided by Lord Denman in 1833,
was perhaps the most important. In this country the
question had already been disposed of by Mr. Justice
Story in Tyler v. Wilkinson, 4 Mason, 397. Since those
cases, it has been settled that, under the common law,
both in England and in the United States, the usufructuary rights to innavigable waters belong to the owners
of the land bordering on them; that the rights of such
owners in the water are in no way dependent upon its
use; that such waters are in no proper sense publici juris,
as, for instance, navigable waters are; that the water right
is part and parcel of the title to land itself; and that title
to such usufructuary right has the same origin as the
title to the land. Embrey v. Owen, 6 Ex. 352, 368; 20
L. J. Ex. 212; Ferguson v. Shirreif, 6 Dunlop, 1355, 1374
(Scot's Rev. Reps.)
Undoubtedly the States have the power to control individuals in their use of water. Whatever the power is, it
is limited by the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment protecting vested rights. The power is the same as
that which the State has over vested rights in lands.
Water rights, under both the appropriation and the riparian doctrines, are vested rights in real property, which
can be lost only by grant, condemnation, prescription, or
abandonment. The ways in which this power of the
State is exercised, of course, will differ in accordance with
the kind of property the use of which is to be affected or
controlled. Thus, we have regulations limiting the use
of land for the public good that would not be at all applicable to Water, and, vice versa, we have regulations concerning water that could not apply to land. Wiel, Water
Rights, pp. 196, 197; Robertson v. People, 40 Colo. 119,
124; Broad Run Co. v. Duel Co., 47 Colo. 573, 579;
Combs v. FarmersCo., 38 Colo. 420, 428.
The argument based on the necessities of the arid region
wrongly assumes that the riparian system is not suited to

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

western conditions and that, therefore, the States can
dispose of the federal property in water. We think it
sufficient here to point out that the main principle of the
riparian system is equality of right between the riparian
owners; that they among them own the entire right of
use of the stream; that any proper use under the circumstances, including, of course, irrigation, is permitted; that
rights exactly like appropriation rights can be and frequently are created by grant or condemnation of rights of
the riparian owners; that the appropriation system, so
called, is not so much a system of owning and using rights
as it is a means of acquiring them; that it is an open
question whether the correlative rights of the riparian
system are not better suited to an irrigation community
than the sometimes more definite and less related appropriation rights; and finally, that both classes of rights are
now being created out of, and logically rest, under our
theory, upon the original federal ownership of riparian
rights, and that the argument for state ownership is
merely one that it would be better to allow the States to
dispose of this class of federal property, and is as applicable to lands as to water.
The fundamental principle of water law, that the corpus
of water can only be the subject of ownership while in
possession, and that, therefore, water itself in its natural
state is owned by no one, has no effect upon the question
of whether the title to the usufructuary right therein belongs to the State as a part of its sovereignty.
Water rights now vested in others derive their existence,
like titles to land, from the acts of Congress. All interest
in water not so granted necessarily remains in theklnited
States. The acts grant nothing to the States, and ratification of state constitutions asserting state ownership of -water does not divest the United States of its property rights
therein. The earliest acts of Congress affecting innavigable waters show full consciousness of power to deal with

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for the United States.

such waters on the public lands. Rev. Stats. § 2476. Acts
of May 18, 1796, 1 Stat. 468; March 3, 1803, § 17, 2 Stat.
235; February 20,1811, § 3,2 Stat. 642; and March 3, 1811,
§ 12, 2 Stat. 666; Railroad Co. v. Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272,
289; Scott v. Lattig, 227 U. S. 229, 242; Hardinv. Shedd,
190 U. S. 508, 519. Since the passage of the Act of July 26,
1866, 14 Stat. 251, the disposition of such waters on the
public lands has been controlled by that act and by the
local laws and customs used as its subordinate instrumentalities. The occasion of this legislation was the extensive
occupation and exploitation of the public lands in the
West following the discovery of gold in California. The
need was to legalize appropriations of mineral land,
rights of way, and water rights already made under local
customs and laws, and to provide for the future acquisition
of rights of the same character in the same manner.
Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. .S. 453; Atchison v. Peterson, 20
Wall. 507; Basey v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670; Broder v.
Water Co., 101 U. S. 274; Wiel, Water Rights, § 66, .et
seq.; § 92, et seq.; 1 Kinney, Irrigation, §§ 596, 611, 636, et
seq. To meet this situation the Act of 1866 and the supplementary Act of 1870, 16 Stat. 217, were passed. Congress
had already provided adequate means for the acquisition
of the government title to agricultural lands by passing
the Homestead Act in 1862.
The relation of the Acts of 1866 and 1870 to water
rights and waterways was precisely the same as their
relation to the mineral lands. Their mining features
were crude and were superseded by the more detailed Act
of May 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91, in which, however, the policy of favoring local laws and granting mining rights in
accordance therewith is adhered to. The water features
of the original acts are still in force. That the Act of
1866 provides a means for the future acquisition of rights,
water as well as mining, is the settled holding of the

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U.S.

courts, and made perfectly clear by the Act of 1870. Jacob
v. Lorenz, 98 Cal. 332, 335; Beaver Brook v. St. Vrain,
6 Colo. App. 130, 138; Wiel, Water Rights, § 99, p. 116;
Long, Irrigation, § 74, p. 134.
This legislation is the foundation of all water rights in
the Western States today and provides a-sabtion and, we
think, the only solution, of the problem of interstate
streams. Mineral lands are held open to "exploration
and occupation ", and he who occupies is given the right
to take the other steps which lead to a grant. Water
rights are protected and preserved to whoever has possessed them. Local laws, rules, and customs are used in
both cases to define the right and provide the course that
must be followed to acquire it. The mineralized vein is
recognized, as it was before by the customs of the miners,
as being the thing appropriated, and so the right is given
to follow it regardless of the surface limits of the claim
extending vertically downward, which ordinarily define
the extent of land holdings. In the field of water rights,
again in accordance with local customs, the one who first
"appropriates," even for use on nonriparian lands, is
given the better right. Both as to mining and water,
however, the rights granted are only such as any proprietor of the whole property involved could grant, and the
rule of priority is only that which necessarily follows from
successive conveyances of defined parts of a whole.
Further, it should be observed that, under this act, the
proprietor, the United States, in a way holds its landed
estate for conveyance in three classes-mineral rights,
water rights, and what may be called, for convenience,
ordinary land rights. It holds all of these rights for conveyance separately or together, as the case may be. Consequently, and generally speaking, riparian rights pass
or not, under a patent of riparian land, according to
whether or not the riparian doctrine or the appropriation
doctrine is the rule in the locality where the land is situ-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Argument for the United States.

ated. Congress has provided that it shall be otherwise in
the Black Hills Forest Reserve in South Dakota (34 Stat.
233, 234).
It is well understood that the local rules, whether found
in miners' customs, court decisions, or legislative acts,
were adopted merely to supplement the particular provisions and fundamental conditions of the act, in order to
fit it to local conditions, including local preferences, and
avoid unnecessary complexity and volume in the act itself. This plan of adopting local laws or rules as the lhws
and rules of Congress is familiar enough. It is seen in
the legislation defining crimes on reservations under exclusive jurisdiction of the General Government; in the
conformity provisions governing the federal courts in
common-law cases; in various laws for the taking of affidavits, etc. Illustrations might be greatly multiplied.
Lindley on Mines, 2d ed., § 249; Butte City Water Co. v.
Baker, 196 U. S. 125; Clason v. Matko, 223 U. S. 646, 654.
It is somewhat astonishing to find Broder v. Water Co.,
101 U. S. 274, and Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453, 456,
cited in Colorado's brief as authority for the idea that the
Act of 1866 recognized an independent title or power in
the States. They hold exactly the reverse. See Union
Co. v. Ferris, 2 Sawy. 176, 184; 1 Wiel, Water Rights,
§ 97, p. 113; § 155, p. 177 et seq.; Long, Irrigation, § 74,
p. 134. The grant is made directly to the individual
appropriator. It takes effect upon his bringing himself
within its terms by complying with the local laws. No
patent follows as in the case of mining claims, but the
title passes by virtue of the statute itself and compliance
with it, as is the case with grants of rights of way. Yale,
Mining and Water Rights, p. 380.
The law of water rights in California and the numerous
States which have followed her lead is based squarely
upon the federal title. 1 Wiel, Water Rights, p. 226;
Lux v. Haggin, 69 Cal. 255, 338; Benton v. Johncox, 17

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the United States.

259 U. S.

Wash. 277, 289; Morgan v. Shaw, 47 Ore. 333, 337; Smith
v. Denniff, 24 Mont. 20, 21; Barkley v. Tieleke, 2 Mont.
59, 64; Cruse v. McCauley, 96 Fed. 369, 373-374; Howell
v. Johnson, 89 Fed. 556, 558. Colorado and the other
pure appropriation States (1 Wiel, Water Rights, p. 226),
endeavor to find some basis for water rights other than the
federal title. In those States water rights are identical
with appropriation rights in California and the other dual
system States, and, of course, are derived, as they are
there, from the United States by grants under this act.
Subsequent acts of Congress contradict the theory that
federal ownership has been abdicated. Kinney, Irrigation, § 637, and pp. 1091, 1095; Hough v. Porter,51 Ore.
318; Gutierresv. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U. S. 545,
552-554; Acts of March 3, 1877, 19 Stat. 377; August 18,
1894, 28 Stat. 422; June 4, 1897, 30 Stat. 11, 36; February
26, 1897, 29 Stat. 599; March 2, 1897, 29 Stat. 603; June
17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388.
The legislation of Congress, with regard to water rights,
all centers upon, and is intended to preserve, the policy
adopted in the Act of 1866. It is the long continuance of
subordinate state control, under a system that involves no
recourse to the source of power, that has caused the fact
that such control is subordinate sometimes to be lost
sight of.
Ratification of state constitutions asserting state ownership of waters does not divest the United States of its
property rights therein. Colo. Const., Art. XVI, § 6;
Coyle v. Oklahoma, 221 U. S. 559, 568; Ex parte Webb,
225 U. S. 663, 690; Wilcox v. McConnell, 13 Pet. 498,
516; Kinney, Irrigation, § 388, p. 660.
The question whether the United States or the States
own the water of innavigable streams in the West has
never been directly passed upon by this court. The cases
support federal ownership. Wiel, Water Rights, pp. 183,
194, 223; Kinney, Irrigation, § 640; Long, Irrigation, § 74,

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

p. 134; Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall. 507; Basey v.
Gallagher, 20' Wall. 670; Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541;
United States v. Rio Grande Co., 174 U. S. 690, 704;
Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U. S. 545;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46; Winters v. United
States, 207 U. S. 564; Boquillas Land Co. v. Curtis, 213
U. S. 339.
Upholding of state ownership would disintegrate the
law and destroy federal interests without working any
practical good to the States.
This controversy, as one involving an interstate stream,
should be decided upon the basis of the federal ownership
of lands and waters, thereby confining the ownership of
the States, as ultimate proprietors, to such water rights as
have been or may be granted to the respective States for
themselves or for use in connection with the lands within
their borders. In practice the Federal Government disregards state lines in the use and control of waters for
its own purposes; and state lines have been equally disregarded in the grant, and acquisition, and use, of private
water rights in the Western States; so a division of water
between the States, making state lines controlling, would
interfere with the federal use of water and seriously
modify, or destroy, existing vested rights. These rights,
being grants from the paramount sovereignty, should be
upheld as against the claim that the States, which enjoy
a quasi sovereignty only, should be treated in this respect
as independent Nations.
MR. JUSTICE VAw DEVANTuER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This is an original suit in this court by the State of
Wyoming against the State of Colorado and two Colorado
corporations to prevent a proposed diversion in Colorado
of part of the waters of the Laramie River, an interstate
stream. The bill was brought in 1911, the evidence was

456

OCTOBER 'TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

taken in 1913 and 1914, and the parties put it in condensed and narrative form in 1916 preparatory to the
usual printing. The case has been argued at the bar
three times. The court directed one reargument because
of the novelty and importance of some of the questions
involved, and the other because of an intervening succession in the office of Chief Justice. As the United States
appeared to have a possible interest in some of the
questions, the court also directed that the suit be called
to the attention of the Attorney General; and, by the
court's leave, a representative of the United States participated in the subsequent hearings.
The Laramie is an innavigable river which has its
source in the mountains of northern Colorado, flows
northerly 27 miles in that State, crosses into Wyoming,
and there flows northerly and northeasterly 150 miles to
the North Platte River, of which it is a tributary. Both
Colorado and Wyoming are in the arid region where flowing waters are, and long have been, commonly diverted
from their natural channels and used in irrigating the
soil and making it productive. For many years some of
the waters of the Laramie River have been subjected to
such diversion and use, part in Colorado and part in
Wyoming.
When this suit was brought the two corporate defendants, acting under the authority and permission of Colorado, were proceeding to divert in that State a considerable portion of the waters of the river and to conduct the
same into another watershed, lying wholly in Colorado,
for use in irrigating lands more than fifty miles distant
from the point of diversion. The topography and natural
drainage are such that none of the water can return to the
stream or ever reach Wyoming.
By the bill Wyoming seeks to prevent this diversion on
two grounds: One that, without her sanction, the waters
of this interstate stream cannot rightfully be taken from

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

its watershed and carried into another where she never
can receive any benefit from them;,.and the other that
through many appropriations made at great cost, which
are prior in time and superior in right to the proposed
Colorado diversion, Wyoming and her citizens have become and are entitled to use a large portion of the waters
of the river in the irrigation of lands in that State and
that the proposed Colorado diversion will not leave in the
stream sufficient water to satisfy these prior and superior
appropriations, and so will work irreparable prejudice to
Wyoming and her citizens.
By the answers Colorado and her co-defendants seek to
justify and sustain the proposed diversion on three distinct grounds: First, that it is the right of Colorado as a
State to dispose, as she may choose, of any part or all of
the waters flowing in the portion of the river within her
borders, "regardless of the prejudice that it may work"
to Wyoming and her citizens; secondly, that Colorado is
entitled to an equitable division of the waters of the river
and that the proposed diversion, together with all subsisting appropriations in Colorado, does not exceed her
share; and, thirdly, that after the proposed diversion there
will be left in the river and its tributaries in Wyoming
sufficient water to satisfy all appropriations in that State
whose origin was prior in time to the effective inception
of the right under which the proposed Colorado diversion
is about to be made.
Before taking up the opposing contentions a survey of
several matters in the light .of which they should be approached and considered is in order.
Both Colorado and Wyoming are along the apex of the
Continental Divide and include high mountain ranges
where heavy snows fall in winter and melt in late spring
and early summer,-this being the chief source of water
supply. Small streams in the mountains gather the water
from the melting snow and conduct it to larger streams

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

below which ultimately pass into surrounding States.
The flow in all streams varies greatly in the course of the
year, being highest in May, June and July and relatively
very low in other months. There is also a pronounced
variation from year to year. To illustrate, the gaging
of the Cache la Poudre, a typical stream, for 1912 shows
that the total flow for May, June and July was more
than three times that for the nine other months, and the
gaging for a period of 30 years shows that the yearly flow
varied from 151,636 to 666,466 acre-feet 1 and was in excess of 400,000 acre-feet in each of four years and less
than 175,000 acre-feet in each of five years. Both States
have vast plains and many valleys of varying elevation
where there is not sufficient natural precipitation to
moisten the soil and make it productive, but where, when
additional water is applied artificially, the soil becomes
fruitful,-the reward being generous in some areas and
moderate in others, just as husbandry is variously rewarded in States where there is greater humidity, such
as Massachusetts, Virginia, Ohio and Tennessee. Both
States were Territories long before they were admitted
into the Union as States and while the territorial condition continued were under the full dominion of the
United States. At first the United States owned all the
lands in both and it still owns and is offering for disposal millions of acres in each.
Turning to the decisions of the courts of last resort in
the two States, we learn that the same doctrine respecting
the diversion and use of the waters of natural streams
has prevailed in both from the beginning and that each
State attributes much of her development and prosperity
to the practical operation of this doctrine. The relevant
views of the origin and nature of the doctrine, as shown
in these decisions, may be summarized as follows: The
'An acre-foot is the quantity of water requixed to cover an acre
to a depth of one foot-43,560 cubic feet.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

common-law rule respecting riparian rights in flowing
water never obtained in either State. It always was
deemed inapplicable to their situation and climatic conditions. The earliest settlers gave effect to a different
rule whereby the waters of the streams were regarded as
open to appropriation for irrigation, mining and other
beneficial purposes. The diversion from the stream and
the application of the water to a beneficial purpose constituted an appropriation, and the appropriator was
treated as acquiring a continuing right to divert and use
the water to the extent of his appropriation, but not beyond what was reasonably required and actually used.
This was deemed a property right and dealt with and respected accordingly. As between different appropriations
from the same stream, the one first in time was deemed
superior in right, and a completed appropriation was regarded as effective from the time the purpose to make it
was definitely formed and actual work thereon was begun,
provided the work was carried to completion with reasonable diligence. This doctrine of appropriation, prompted
by necessity and formulated by custom, received early
legislative recognition in both Territories and was enforced in their courts. When the States were admitted
into the Union it received further sanction in their constitutions and statutes and their courts have been uniformly enforcing it. Yunker v. Nichols, 1 Colo. 551;
Schilling v. Rominger, 4 Colo. 100; Coffin v. Left Hand
Ditch Co., 6 Colo. 443; Thomas v. Guiraud, 6 Colo. 530;
Strickler v. Colorado Springs, 16 Colo. 61; Oppenlanderv.
Left Hand Ditch Co., 18 Colo. 142; Wyatt v. Larimer,
& Weld Irrigation Co., 18 Colo. 298; Crippen v. White,
28 Colo. 298; Moyer v. Preston,6 Wyo. 308; FarmInvestment Co. v. Carpehter,9 Wyo. 110; Willey v. Decker, 11
Wyo. 496; Johnston v. Little Horse Creek Irrigating Co.,
13 Wyo. 208.
As the United States possessed plenary authority over
Colorado and Wyoming while they were Territories and

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

has at all times owned the public lands therein, we turn
next to its action.
The Act of July 26, 1866, c. 262, § 9, 14 Stat. 251, contained a section providing: "Whenever, by priority of
possession, rights to the use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or other purposes, have vested and
accrued, and the same are recognized and acknowledged
by the local customs, laws, and the decisions of courts,
the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be
maintained and protected in the same." The occasion
for this provision and its purpose and effect were extensively considered by this court in the cases of Atchison v.
Peterson,20 Wall. 507, and Basey v. Gallagher,20 Wall.
670, the conclusions in both being shown in the following
excerpt from the latter, pp. 681-682:
"In the late case of Atchison v. Peterson,we had occasion to consider the respective rights of miners to running
waters on the mineral lands of the public domain; and
we there held that by the custom which had obtained
among miners in the Pacific States and Territories, the
party who first subjected the water to use, or took the
necessary steps for that purpose, was regarded, except as
against the government, as the source of title in all controversies respecting it; that the doctrines of the common
law declaratory of the rights of riparian proprietors were
inapplicable, or applicable only to a limited extent, to the
necessities of miners, and were inadequate to their protection; that the equality of right recognized by that
law among all the proprietors upon the same stream,
would have been incompatible with any extended diversion of the water by one proprietor, and its conveyance
for mining purposes to points from which it could not
be restored to the stream; that the government by its
silent acquiescence had assented to and encouraged the
occupation of the public lands for mining; and that he
who first connected his labor with property thus situated

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

and open to general exploration, did in natural justice
acquire a better right to its use and enjoyment than
others who had not given such labor; that the miners on
the public lands throughout the Pacific States and Territories, by their customs, usages, and regulations, had
recognized the inherent justice of this principle, and the
principle itself was at an early period recognized by legislation and enforced by the courts in those States and Territories, and was finally approved by the legislation of
Congress in 1866. The views there expressed and the
rulings made are equally applicable to the use of water on
the public lands for purposes of irrigation. No distinction is made in those States and Territories by the custom of miners or settlers, or by the courts, in the rights
of the first appropriator from the use made of the water,
if the use be a beneficial one."
And on the same subject it was further said, in Broder v.
Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, 276:
"It is the established doctrine of this court that rights
of miners, who had taken possession of mines and worked
and developed them, and the rights of persons who had
constructed canals and ditches to be used in mining operations and for purposes of agricultural irrigation, in the
region where such artificial use of the water was an absolute necessity, are rights which the government had, by its
conduct, recognized and encouraged and was bound to
protect, before the passage of the act of 1866. We are
of opinion that the section of the act which we have
quoted was rather a voluntary recognition of a pre-existing right of possession, constituting a valid claim to its
continued use, than the establishment of a new one."
The Act of July 9, 1870, c. 235, § 17, 16 Stat. 217, provided that "all patents granted, or preemption or homesteads allowed, shall be subject to any vested and accrued
water rights" acquired under or recognized by the provision of 1866. These provisions are now §§ 2339 and
2340 of the Revised Statutes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The Act of March 3, 1877, c. 107, § 1, 19 Stat. 377, providing for the sale of desert lands in tracts of one section
each to persons undertaking and effecting their reclamation, contained a proviso declaring that "the right to the
use of water by the person so conducting the same, on
or to any tract of desert land of six hundred and forty
acres shall depend upon bona fide prior appropriation:
and such right shall not exceed the amount of water
actually appropriated, and necessarily used for the purpose of irrigation and reclamation: and all surplus water
over and above such actual appropriation and use, together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other sources
of water supply upon the public lands and not navigable,
shall remain and be held free for the appropriation and
use of the public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing
purposes subject to existing rights." Colorado was not at
first included in this act, but' was brought in by an
amendatory act. Next came the Act of March 3, 1891,
c. 561, § 18, 26 Stat. 1095, granting rights of way through
the public lands and reservations for canals and ditches
to be used for irrigation purposes, and containing a proviso saying, "the privilege herein granted shall not be
construed to interfere with the control of water for irrigation and other purposes under authority of the respective States or Territories."
Of the legislation thus far recited it was said, in United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S.
690, 706: "Obviously by these acts, so far as they extended, Congress recognized and assented to the appropriation of water in contravention of the common law
rule as to continuous flow "; and again, "the obvious
purpose of Congress was to give its assent, so far as the
public lands were concerned, to any system, although in
contravention to the common law rule, which permitted
the appropriation of those waters for legitimate industries."

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

June 17, 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388, the National Reclamation Act was passed, under which the United States entered upon the construction of extensive irrigation works
to be used in the reclamation of large bodies of arid public
lands in the western States. Its eighth section declared:
"Nothing in this act shall be construed as affecting or intended to affect or to in any way interfere with the laws
of any State or Territory relating to the control, appropriation, use, or distribution of water used in irrigation,
or any vested right acquired thereunder, and the Secretary
of the Interior, in carrying out the provisions of this Act,
shall proceed in conformity with such laws, and nothing
herein shall in any way affect any right of any State or of
the Federal Government or of any landowner, appropriator, or user of water in, to, or from any interstate
stream or the waters thereof: Provided, That the right
to the use of water acquired under the provisions of this
Act shall be appurtenant to the land irrigated, and beneficial use shall be the basis, the measure, and the limit of
the right." The words which we have italicized constitute
the only instance, so far as we are advised, in which the
legislation of Congress relating to the appropriation of
water in the arid land region has contained any distinct
mention of interstate streams. The explanation of this
exceptional mention is to be found in the pendency in
this court at that time of the case of Kansas v. Colorado,
wherein the relative rights of the two States, the United
States, certain Kansas riparians and certain Colorado
appropriators and users in and to the waters of the
Arkansas River, an interstate stream, were thought to be
involved. Congress was solicitous that all questions respecting interstate streams thought to be involved in that
litigation should be left to judicial determination unaffected by the act,-in other words, that the matter be
left just as it was before. The words aptly reflect that
purpose.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 II. S.

The decision in Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46, was a
pioneer in its field. On some of the questions presented
it was intended to be and is comprehensive, and on others
it was intended to be within narrower limits, the court
saying, "the views expressed in this opinion are to be
confined to a case in which the facts and the local law of
the two States are as here disclosed." On full consideration it was broadly determined that a controversy between two States over the diversion and use of waters of
a stream passing from one to the other "makes a matter
for investigation and determination by this court" in the
exercise of its original jurisdiction, and also that the upper
State on such a stream does not have such ownership or
control of the waters flowing therein as entitles her to
divert and use them regardless of any injury or prejudice
to the rights of the lower State in the stream. And, on
consideration of the particular facts disclosed and the local
law of the two States, it was determined that Colorado
was not taking more than what under the circumstances
would be her share under an equitable apportionment.
As respects the scope and interpretation of the ultimate
conclusion in that case it should be observed, first, that
the court was there concerned, as it said, with a controversy between two States, "one recognizing generally the
common-law rule of riparian rights" and the other the
doctrine of appropriation; secondly, that the diversion
complained of was not to a watershed from which none
of the water could find its way into the complaining
State, but quite to the contrary; and, thirdly, that what
the complaining State was seeking was not to prevent a
proposed diversion for the benefit of lands as yet unreclaimed, but to interfere with a diversion which had
been practiced for years and under which many thousands
of acres of unoccupied and barren lands had been reclaimed and made productive. In these circumstances,
and after observing that the diminution in the flow of

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

the river had resulted in "perceptible injury" to portions
of the valley in Kansas, but in "little, if any, detriment"
to the great body of the valley, the court said, "it would
seem equality of right and equity between the two States
forbids any interference with the present withdrawal of
water in Colorado for purposes of irrigation; " and that,
if the depletion of the waters by Colorado should be increased, the time would come when Kansas might "rightfully call for relief against the action of Colorado, its corporations and citizens in appropriating the waters of the
Arkansas for irrigation purposes." What was there said
about "equality of right" refers, as the opinion shows
(p. 97), not to an equal division of the water, but to the
equal level or plane on which all the States stand, in
point of power and right, under our constitutional system.
Like that case the one now before us presents a controversy over the waters of an interstate stream. But here
the controversy is between States in both of which the
doctrine of appropriation has prevailed from the time of
the first settlements, always has been applied in the same
way, and has been recognized and sanctioned by the
United States, the owner of the public lands. Here the
complaining State is not seeking to impose a policy of her
choosing on the other State, but to have the common
policy which each enforces within her limits applied in
determining their relative rights in the interstate stream.
Nor is the United States seeking to impose a policy of its
choosing on either State. All that it has done has been
to recognize and give its sanction to the policy which each
has adopted. Whether its public land holdings would enable it to go further we need not consider. And here the
complaining State is not seeking to interfere with a diversion which has long been practiced and under which much
reclamation has been effected, but to prevent a proposed
diversion for the benefit of lands as yet unreclaimed.
With this understanding of the case in hand and of
some of the matters in the light of which it should be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

sidered, we take up the several contentions, before noticed, which are pressed on our attention.
The contention of Colorado that she as a State rightfully may divert and use, as she may choose, the waters
flowing within her boundaries in this interstate stream,
regardless of any prejudice that this may work to others
having rights in the stream below her boundary, can not
be maintained. The river throughout its course in both
States is but a single stream wherein each State has an
interest which should be respected by the other. A like
contention was set up by Colorado in her answer in Kansas v. Colorado and was adjudged untenable. Further
consideration satisfies us that the ruling was right. It has
support in other cases, of which Rickey Land & Cattle Co.
v. Miller & Lux, 218 U. S. 258; Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S.
485; Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208, and 200 U. S. 496,
and Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, are
examples.
The objection of Wyoming to the proposed diversion
on the ground that it is to another watershed, from which
she can receive no benefit, is also untenable. The fact
that the diversion is to such a watershed has a bearing in
another connection, but does not in itself constitute a
ground for condemning it. In neither State does the
right of appropriation depend on the place of use being
within the same watershed. Diversions from one watershed to another are commonly made in both States and
the practice is recognized by the decisions of their courts.
Coffin v. Left Hand Ditch Co., 6 Colo. 443, 449; Thomas
v. Guiraud, 6 Colo. 530; Hammond v. Rose, 11 Colo. 524;
Oppenlanderv. Left Hand Ditch Co., 18 Colo. 142, 144;
Moyer v. Preston, 6 Wyo. 308, 321; Willey v. Decker, 11
Wyo. 496, 529-531. And the evidence shows that diversions are made and recognized in both States which in
principle are not distinguishable from this, that is, where
water is taken in one State from a watershed leading into

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

the other State and conducted into a different watershed
leading away from that State, and from which she never
can receive any benefit. 'The principle of such diversions
being recognized in both States, its application to this interstate stream does not in itself afford a ground for complaint, unless the practice in both be rejected in determining what, as between them, is reasonable and admissible
as to this stream, which we think should not be done.
We are thus brought to the question of the basis on
which the relative rights of these States in the waters of
this interstate stream should be determined. Should the
doctrine of appropriation, which each recognizes and enforces within her borders, be applied? Or is there another basis which is more consonant with right and equity?
The lands in both States are naturally arid and the
need for irrigation is the same in one'as in the other. The
lands were settled under the same public land laws and
their settlement was induced largely by the prevailing
right to divert and use water for irrigation, without which
the lands were of little value. Many of the lands were
acquired under the Desert Land Act which made reclamation by irrigation a condition to the acquisition. The first
settlers located along the streams where water could be
diverted and applied at small cost. Others with more
means followed and reclaimed lands farther away. Then
companies with large capital constructed extensive canals
and occasional tunnels whereby water was carried to lands
remote from the stream and supplied, for hire, to settlers
who were not prepared to engage in such large undertakings. Ultimately, the demand for water being in excess
of the dependable flow of the streams during the irrigation season, reservoirs were constructed wherein water
was impounded when not needed and released when
needed, thereby measurably equalizing the natural flow.
Such was the course of irrigation development in both

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

States. It began in territorial days, continued without
change after statehood, and was the basis for the large
respect always shown for water rights. These constituted
the foundation of all rural home building and agricultural
development, and, if they were rejected now, the lands
would return to their naturally arid condition, the efforts
of the settlers and the expenditures of others would go
for naught and values mounting into large figures would
be lost.
In neither State was the right to appropriate water
from this interstate stream denied. On the contrary, it
was permitted and recognized in both. The rule was the
same on both sides of the line. Some of the appropriations were made as much as fifty years ago and many as
much as twenty-five. In the circumstances we have
stated, why should not appropriations from this stream be
respected, as between the two States, according to their
several priorities, as would be done if the stream lay
wholly within either State? By what principle of right
or equity may either State proceed in disregard of prior
appropriations in the other?
Colorado answers that this is not a suit between private
appropriators. This is true, but it does not follow that
their situation and what has been accomplished by them
for their respective States can be ignored. As respects
Wyoming the welfare, prosperity and happiness of the
people of the larger part of the Laramie valley, as also a
large portion of the taxable resources of two counties, are
dependent on the appropriations in that State. Thus the
interests of the State are indissolubly linked with the
rights of the appropriators. To the extent of the appropriation and use of the water in Colorado a like situation
exists there.
Colorado further answers that she can accomplish more
with the water than Wyoming does or can; that she proposes to use it on lands in the Cache la Poudre valley, and

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

469

Opinion of the Court.

that they with less water will produce more than the lands
in the portion of the Laramie valley known as the Laramie Plains. It is true that irrigation in the Poudre valley
has been carried to a higher state of development than
elsewhere in the Rocky Mountain region and that the
lands of that valley lie at a lower altitude than do those
in the Laramie Plains and generally are better adapted
to agriculture. In some parts they also require less water.
It may be assumed that the lands intended to be reclaimed and irrigated in the Poudre valley conform to the
general standard, although this is left uncertain. But for
combined farming and stockraising those of the Laramie
Plains offer opportunities and advantages which are well
recognized. It is to this use that they chiefly are devoted.
It is a recognized and profitable industry, has been carried
on there for many years and is of general economic value.
Many of the original -ranchmen still are engaged in it,some on the tracts where they first settled. With the aid
of irrigation, native hay of a high quality, alfalfa, oats
and other forage are grown for winter feeding, the live
stock being grazed most of the year on unirrigated areas
and in the neighboring hills and mountains. In this way
not only are the irrigated tracts made productive, but the
utility and value of the grazing areas are greatly enhanced. The same industry is carried on in the same
way in sections of Colorado. In both States this is a purpose for which the right to appropriate water may be
exercised, and no discrimination is made between it and
other farming. Even in this suit Colorado is asserting
appropriations of this class for 4,250 acres in the portion
of the Laramie valley in that State, and is claiming under
them an amount of water in excess of what she asserts
will irrigate a like acreage in the Poudre valley.
Some of the appropriations from the stream in Wyoming are used for agriculture alone. One of the large
projects, dating from territorial days, and constructed at

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1021.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

great cost, carries water from the river through a tunnel
one-half mile long and canals several miles in length to
the Wheatland District where it is used in irrigating
30,000 acres, all of which are very successfully and profitably farmed in small tracts. This project uses one very
large and one comparatively small reservoir for storing
water and equalizing the natural flow.
We conclude that Colorado's objections to the doctrine
of appropriation as a basis of decision are not well taken,
and that it furnishes the only basis which is consonant
with the principles of right and equity applicable to such
a controversy as this is. The cardinal rule of the doctrine
is that priority of appropriation gives superiority of right.
Each of these States applies and enforces this rule in her
own territory, and it is the one to which intending appropriators naturally would turn for guidance. The principle
on which it proceeds is not less applicable to interstate
streams and controversies than to others. Both States
pronounce the rule' just and reasonable as applied to the
natural conditions in that region; and to prevent any
departure from it the people of both incorporated it into
their constitutions. It originated in the customs and
usages of the people before either State came into existence, and the courts of both hold, that their constitutional
provisions are to be taken as recognizing the prior usage
rather than as creating a new rule. These considerations
persuade us that its application to such a controversy as
is here presented cannot be other than eminently just and
equitable to all concerned.
In suits between appropriators from the same stream,
but in different States recognizing the doctrine of appropriation, the question whether rights under such appropriations should be judged by the rule of priority has been
considered by several courts, state and federal, and has
been uniformly answered in the affirmative. Conant v.
Deep Creek IrrigationCo., 23 Utah, 627, 631; Wiley v.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

Decker, 11 Wyo. 496, 534-535; Taylor v. Hulett, 15 Idaho,
265, 271; Howell v. Johnson,89 Fed. 556; Hoge v. Eaton,
135 Fed. 411; Morrisv. Bean, 146 Fed. 423; Bean v. Morris, 159 Fed. 651. One of the cases came to this court and
the judgment below was affirmed. Bean v. Morris, 221
U. S. 485. These decisions, although given in suits between individuals, tend strongly to support our conclusion, for they show that by common usage, as also by
judicial pronouncement, the rule of priority is regarded
in such States as having the same application to a stream
flowing from one of them to another that it has to streams
wholly within one of them.
The remaining questions are largely matters of fact.
The evidence is voluminous, some of it highly technical
and some quite conflicting. It has all been considered.
The reasonable limits of an opinion do not admit of its
extended discussion. We must be content to give our
conclusions on the main questions and make such references to and corAment on what is evidential as will point
to the grounds on which the conclusions on those questions rest. As to minor questions we can only state the
ultimate facts as we find them from the evidence.
The question first in order, and the one most difficult
of solution, relates to the flow of the Laramie River, the
common source of supply. The difficulty arises chiefly
out of the fact that the flow varies greatly in the course of
the year and also from year to year.
Colorado's evidence, which for convenience we take up
first, is directed to showing the average yearly flow of all
years in a considerable period, as if that constituted a
proper measure of the available supply. We think it is
not a proper measure,-and this because of the great
variation in the flow. To be available in a practical sense
the supply must be fairly continuous and dependable.
No doubt the natural flow can be materially conserved
and equalized by means of storage reservoirs, but this has

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

its limitations, both financial and physical. The construction of reservoirs of real capacity is attended with great
expense, and unless an adequate return reasonably can
be foreseen the expenditure is not justified and will not be
made. The years of high water and those of low do not
alternate. Often several of the'same kind follow in succession. The evaporation of stored water in Colorado and
Wyoming is from five to six feet per year. So, while it
generally is practicable to store water in one part of the
year for use in another, or in one year for use in the next,
it often, if not generally, is impracticable to store it for
longer periods. All this is recognized elsewhere in Colorado's evidence. One of her principal witnesses said:
"With regard to financial practicability of construction of reservoirs on Poudre River capable of conserving
extraordinary floods, will state that they call for an expenditure that could be utilized only occasionally. It
would be similar to financial proposition of people in
Florida preparing to heat their houses in the same manner as those in the northern part of the United States.
For years of unusually high. flow in the Poudre River, conservation works, to utilize the excess waters in that
stream, would have to count on carrying water over more
than one year. The utilization of this water means the
presence of population on the land; that population must
have a living from year to year and they are not justified
in going out on the land and settling to raise a crop only
once in three or four years. They must have sufficient to
make a living from one year to another, and consequently
the investment must be such that there can be sufficient
water every year to keep these people on the land, and
when water can only be conserved once in every three to
five years, there must be provision for carrying over water
or the people cannot live. It is a question of population
as well as investment. The population has to exist and
stay on the ground. From standpoint of investment, con-

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

servation of flow such as extreme flow of 1884 would be
impractical to the extent that it exceeded the ordinary
high year. Of such character would be [also] the floods of
1885, 1900 and 1909, three [four] years in thirty." The
same witness further said: "Aside from reasons which I
have given why reservoirs designed to catch only these
rare high water flows of Poudre River are not feasible, it
is a fact that no farmer would be able to anticipate the
high flow and therefore could not depend at all upon water
for irrigation until it reached him. If he undertook to so
divert water it would become a gamble rather than a safe
guide for living."
Another of her witnesses said:
"The present storage capacity in the Poudre Valley is
such that in some years the reservoirs are not all filled,
while in some years they are filled and water runs to
waste. . .
It would not be possible to inaugurate a
schenie in the Poudre Valley to construct reservoirs to
store water from one year of high flow to another where
such water is the only source of supply, for the reservoirs
would have to be constructed to hold the maximum
amount, and if the water has to be carried over for three
years the average diversion from the reservoir would be
only one-third of its capacity, making the cost per acre
prohibitive."
And still another of her witnesses, referring to the unused waters of the Poudre in years of high flow and also
to what is contemplated by the defendants in respect of
the Laramie, said:
"The really dependable water supply of the District
will come from the Laramie River, the amount secured
from the Poudre River fluctuating greatly and being used
to augument the supply from the Laramie. There will
1

The reference is to the Greeley-Poudre Irrigation District, one of

the defendants.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

be years when the supply from the Poudre River and its
tributaries will be practically nothing. Our plans contemplate taking all the water that it is possible for us to take
from the Laramie River each year. It is possible to get
only a certain amount from that river, and I do not believe that we can absolutely depend on more than half the
required amount from the Laramie River. The very great
floods on that watershed we cannot consider because we
cannot construct works to take care of them."
In accord with these statements, bearing on what is
susceptible of use in actual practice, is further evidence
coming from Colorado's witnesses and exhibits to the
effect that, notwithstanding the great need for water in
the Poudre valley and the returns obtained from its use,
large amounts of water pass down the stream without use
or impounding in the years when the flow exceeds what is
termed the average. With the high state of irrigation development in that valley the full capacity of the reservoir
system there provided when the proof was taken was
146,655 acre-feet,-an evidence of the limitation inhering
in the practical storage of water from such streams.
The Cache la Poudre River heads in the same mountain
range as does the Laramie and the conditions which make
for a pronounced variation in the natural flow are largely
the same with both. The following table compiled from
data relating to the Cache la Poudre, furnished by Colorado, will be helpful in illustrating the view of the witnesses, and also ours. We add the third and fourth columns.

475

WYOMINO v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

419.

VARATIoN IN ANNUAL NET DIsonARGE
OF

CACHM LA POUDRE RVER.
April to October, both inclusive, for 30 years.
Taken from Colorado'sExhibit 124.
Run-off in
acre-feet.

from
Variance from Variance
average of all. avera fu

1884 -----------------------------1885 .............................
1886 ........................
1887 ..............................
1888 ..............................
1889 ..............................
1890 ..............................
1891 ..............................
1892 ..............................
1893 ..............................
1894. =...........................
1895 .............................
1896 ..............................
1897 .............................
1898 .............................
1899 .............................
1900 .............................
1901 ............................
1902 ..........................
1903 ..............................
1904 ..............................

666, 466
465,475
290,392
286, 840
155,970
185,060
221,023
257,236
193,790
216,730
309,444
344,500
162,340
332,070
172,290
388,591
474,573
339,155
151,636
345,150
315,437

+369,144
+168,153
6,930
- 10,482
-141,352
-112,262
- 76,299
- 40,086
-103, 532
- 80,592
+ 12,122
+ 47,178
-134,982
+ 34,748
-125,032
+ 91,269
+177,251
+ 41,833
-145,686
+ 47,828
+ 18,115

+403,883
+202,892
+ 27,809
+, 24,257
-106,613
- 77, 523
- 41,560
5,347
- 68,793
- 45,853
+ 46,861
+ 81,917
-100,243
+ 69,487
- 90,293
-+126, 008
+211,990
+ 76,572
-110,947
+ 82,567
+ 52,854

1905 .............................

361,452

+ 64,330

+ 99,069

1906 ..............................
1907 ..............................
1908 ..............................
1909 .............................
1910 ..............................
1911 ..............................
1912 ..............................
1913 ..............................

279,974
386, 224
252,843
486, 002
157,514
205, 611
297,722
217,959

-

+ 17,391
+123, 641
9,740
+223,419
-105,069
- 56,972
+ 35,139
- 44,624

17,348
+ 88,902
- 44,479
+188, 680
-139,808
- 91,711
400
+
- 79,363

Average 297,322, including all years.
Average 262,583, omitting 1884, 1885, 1900, and 1909.

This table shows that during thirty years-1884 to
1913-the yearly flow of the Cache la Poudre ranged'from
151,636. to 666,466 acre-feet, that in-sixteen of the thirty
it fell below the average, and that eight of .the sixteen

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

were in immediate succession. Obviously it is not financially practicable, even by means of reservoirs, to equalize
the flow of a stream subject to such variation so that it
will have a fairly constant and dependable flow at the
average of all years. For further illustration we have
taken the average of the twenty-six years remaining after
excluding the four described by the witness as extraordinary (these being left to take the average of the
others) and on that basis have made a computation of the
excess and deficiency, which is shown in the fourth
column of the table. Even on this basis there were thirteen years in which the flow was below the average and,
of these, six came in immediate succession. In four the
deficiency exceeded 100,000 acre-feet and of the four only
one followed a year in which there was an excess sufficient,
if carried over in storage, to cover the deficiency. This
suffices to show that the average of all years is far from
being a proper or safe measure of the available supply.
An intending irrigator acquiring a water right based on
such a measure would be almost certainly confronted with
drought when his need for water was greatest. Crops
cannot be grown on expectations of average flows which
do not come, nor on recollections of unusual flows which
have passed down the stream in prior years. Only when
the water is actually applied does the soil respond.
We have dealt with the matter of the average flow at
this length because throughout Colorado's evidence and
in her briefs it is treated as if it were a proper measure of
the supply available for practical use. It is there applied
to the Laramie not only directly, but indirectly by increasing the gaged flow for a particular year or period by
percentages derived by comparing the flow of the Poudre
for that year or period with the average for the thirty
years, including those in which the flow was so extraordinary that concededly much of it neither was nor could be
used. Thus water which is not part of the available supply is counted in measuring that supply.

477

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
Opinion of the Court.

419.

When the evidence was taken, in 1913 and 1914, the
Laramie had not been gaged so thoroughly nor for so
long a period as had the Cache la Poudre. Such gaging
as had occurred had been done at different places in different periods, partly by the United States Geological
Survey, partly by Colorado and partly by Wyoming.
Some of the gaging stations were in Colorado, but most
were in Wyoming. The latter included Woods, nine miles
north of the state boundary, and the Pioneer Dam, four
miles north of Woods. The evidence centered largely
around the flow and gaging at these places. Colorado's
chief witness prepared and presented a table based on
data, drawn from various sources, and bearing on the flow
at Woods from April to October, both inclusive, for several
years and made this table the principal basis of his testimony concerning the flow of the stream in that vicinity.
We here reproduce the material part of the table, the
third and fourth columns being ours.
DIscHARGE OF LARmmIE RIVR, WOODS, WYo.

April to October, both inclusive, for 9 years.
Taken from Colorado'sExhibit 127.
Year.
1895 ..........................
1896 .............................
1897 .............................
1898 ----------------------------1899 .............................
1900 ............................
1911 ..............................
1912 ..............................
1913 ..............................

Acre-feet.

220,239
108, 022
251, 074
117,765
390, 730
248,105
138,240
213,407
99,221

Average, 198,533, including all years.
Average, 174,509, excluding 1899.

Variance from Variance from
of all
average, average
but IM9.
average.
+ 21, 694
- 90,523
+ 52, 529
- 80,780
+192,185
+ 49,560
- 60,305
+ 14, 862
- 99,324

+ 45,730
- 66,487
+ 76,565
- 56,744
+216,221
+ 73,596
- 36,269
+ 38,898
- 75,288

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The data covered two widely separated periods, one of
six years and the other of three. The witness took the
average of the nine years, which he gave as 198,545 acrefeet, and made this the basis of further calculations. He
estimated that the usual flow for the other months was
one-tenth of that for the full year, or, putting it in another way, one-ninth of that from April to October, both
inclusive; and on this basis he added to his -average
21,945 acre-feet, making 220,490. Consulting the Cache
la Poudre table, set forth above, he concluded that the
nine years, in combination, fell below the full average
for the thirty years covered by that table, and to bring
the nine years up to a thirty-year average he added 9,510
acre-feet, making 230,000. Some water from Wyoming
enters the river between the state boundary and Woods,
and for this he deducted 13,000 acre-feet, leaving 217,000.
Then, making a reservation as to Sand Creek, to be considered presently, he concluded that 217,000 acre-feet was
the average yearly flow in that section of the river. He
called it the "normal" flow, an evident misnomer. This
did not include water diverted in Colorado, under recognized Colorado appropriations, which does not reach
Wyoming.
Even if the computation was to be made along the lines
of something approaching a general average, we think the
witness's computation and conclusion are subject to objection in particulars which we proceed to state.
The table shows that the flow for 1899 was extraordinary, so much so that it should have been excluded in computing the average and left to take the general level of
the others. Its flow was 216,221 acre-feet in excess of
their average. The excess added nothing to the available
supply,--that which in practice could be used. The flow
for the next year was such that it required no augmentation from 1899. So, the inclusion of 1899 in the computation was, in effect, taking what was not available as a

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

measure of ;what was. The error raised the average of the
other years 24,036 acre-feet, and was carried into the
ultimate conclusion.
We do not doubt that it was admissible to compare the
data relating to the Laramie with that relating to the
Cache la Poudre and to give effect to such conclusions as
reasonably were to be drawn from the comparison; but
we think there was no justification for the addition which
was made to bring the nine years up to the standard of an
average year among the thirty covered by the Cache la
Poudre table. The addition tended to distort rather than
to reflect the available supply. Looking at the Cache la
Poudre table, it is evident that the nine years, in combination, would not have appeared short in flow had the four
extraordinary years in the thirty been excluded, as they
should have been. Besides, a comparison of the two tables
shows that the variation in yearly flow in the two streams
is not the same and that the difference is such as to preclude a nice calculation such as was here made on the
basis of an assumed uniformity. To illustrate: According
to one table the flow of the Poudre from April to October,
both inclusive, in 1900 was 85,982 acre-feet in excess of
that for the same months in 1899, while according to the
other the flow of the Laramie for those months in 1899
was 142,625 acre-feet in excess of that for the corresponding period in 1900; and according to one table the flow
of the Poudre for those months in 1913 was 73.2 per cent.
of that for the same part of 1912, while according to the
other the flow of the Laramie for those months in 1913
was 46.5 per cent. of that for the same part of 1912.
Assuming that 13,000 acre-feet enter the river from
Wyoming between the state boundary and Woods, and are
part of the river at the latter point, we think this water
should not have been deducted. It is part of the supply
available to satisfy appropriations from the stream in
Wyoming.

480

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The witness treated the flow from April to October,
both inclusive, in 1912 as being 213,407 acre-feet, and the
flow in the same months in 1913 as being 99,221 acre-feet.
In this we think he erred. The evidence establishes that
the flow in the first period was not more than 191,820
acre-feet and in the second was not more than 94,369.
Even with the year 1899 excluded, this error increased the
average 3,305 acre-feet.
If we exclude the extraordinary flow of 1899, make the
needed correction in the flow of 1912 and 1913, and assume the accuracy of the other data, the average becomes
171,204 acre-feet, instead of 198,545, as given by the.witness. This requires that the 21,945 acre-feet which were
added to cover the flow for the five other months be reduced to 19,023.
When these corrections are made in the witness's data
and computation, the result is changed from 217,000 acrefeet to 190,227.
But we are of opinion that the computation and conclusion of the witness, even when revised in the way we
have indicated, are based too much on the average flow
and not enough on the unalterable need for a supply
which is fairly constant and dependable, or is susceptible
of being made so by storage and conservation within
practicable limits. By this it is not meant that known
conditions must be such as give assurance that there will
be no deficiency even during long periods, but rather that
a supply which is likely to be intermittent, or to be materially deficient at relatively short intervals, does not
meet the test of practical availability. As we understand
it, substantial stability in the supply is essential to successful reclamation and irrigation. The evidence shows
that this is so, and it is fully recognized in the literature
on the subject.
The same witness prepared and submitted another table
embodying all the data he was able to secure from records

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

of past gaging and measurements at Woods. This included -three years not shown in the nine-year table.
They and their recorded flow from April to October, both
inclusive, were: 1889, 132,349 acre-feet; 1890, 168,406
acre-feet, and 1891, 207,146 acre-feet. The witness pronounced the data for these years less accurate than that
for the others, and, while his reason for doing so does not
clearly appear, we shall assume he was right. 'Had the
three years been included in the nine-year table that
would have reduced the average from 198,545 to 189,371
acre-feet, counting all years, and from 174,509 to 171,066
acre-feet, counting all but 1899. It, however, would not
have shown another year with a flow as low as that of
1913, nor as low as that of 1896.
Colorado presented other evidence in the way of general
estimates, results of very fragmentary gaging, and opinions based on rough measurements of snow-drifts in the
mountainous area about the head of the stream; but we
put all of this aside as being of doubtful probative value
at best and far less persuasive than the evidence we have
been discussing.
Wyoming's evidence was based on the same recorded
data that were used by Colorado, and also on actual gaging
and measurements by an experienced hydrographer covering the period beginning April 1, 1912, and ending April
30, 1914. Shortly stated, her evidence was to the effect
that the actual measured flow at the Pioneer Dam, four
miles below Woods, was 198,867 acre-feet from April to
December, both inclusive, in 1912, was 109,593 acre-feet
for all of 1913 and was 19,181 acre-feet for the first four
months of 1914; that the flow for 1912 was somewhat
above the average, counting all years; that the flow for
1913 was somewhat more than fifty per cent. of the average, and that the average at Woods and in that vicinity,
counting all years, was approximately 200,000 acre-feet.
Wyoming's chief witness, the hydrographer, submitted

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

the following table giving the 'results of his gaging and
measurements at the Pioneer Dam.
DISCHARGE OF LARAMIE RIVER AT PIONEER DAM, NEAR

WOODS, WYo., (Including diversion just above dam by

Pioneer Canal)
IN ACRE-FEET.
1912
January ...................................
February ...................................
March .......................................
April ...........................
May .............................
June ...........................
July ............................
August ..........................
September .......................
October .........................
November .......................
December .......................

5,534
40,643
91, 874
34,863
7,809
4, 641
6,456
4,403
2, 644

Total .....................

198, 867

1913

1914

2, 650
3,283
2,355
3,088
3,296
4,003
12, 674
8,807
38,307 ...........
26,598 ...........
6,825 ...........
3,130 ...........
3,023 ............
3,812 ............
3,677 ............
3,246 ...........
109,593

19,181

The evidence does not permit us to doubt the accuracy
of these data. They were obtained by work which is
shown to have been painstakingly and conscientiously
done by one fully competent to do it. The place at which
it was done was well adapted to obtaining accurate results
and the observations were continuous, not merely occasional or intermittent.
As the gaging did not cover the first three months of
1912, it is necessary to arrive at the flow for those months.
The proof shows that the flow for the same months in
1914 fairly may be taken for the purpose. That was
10,374 acre-feet, the addition making 209,241 acre-feet
for 1912. The flow for 1913 was 109,593 acre-feet. Both
should be increased 4,000 acre-feet to cover water diverted
between Woods and the Pioneer Dam and not returning

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

483

Opinion of the Court.

to the stream above the gaging station. This gives a total
of 213,241 acre-feet for 1912 and 113,593 acre-feet for
1913. Tested by the flow of these years, the available
supply would be 163,417 acre-feet; that is to say, on that
basis the excess in 1912 would match the deficiency in
1913. But a survey of more than two years is essential
in arriving at a fair conclusion respecting the available
supply. A year of low flow is not always preceded by one
of high or moderate flow as was the case with 1912 and
1913.
In diverting and applying water in irrigation there is a
material loss through evaporation, seepage and otherwise
which is unavoidable. The amount varies according to
the conditions,-chiefly according to the distance the
water is carried through canals and ditches and the length
of time it is held in storage. Where the places of use are
in the same watershed and relatively near the stream,
as is true of the lands on the Laramie Plains served by the
greater part of the Wyoming appropriations, a substantial
amount of water percolates back into the stream from irrigated areas and becomes available for further use lower
down the stream. This is called return water. The
amount varies considerably and there are no definite data
on the subject. As respects irrigation on the Laramie
Plains above the Wheatland diversion, the evidence
satisfies us that the return water will certainly more than
counter-balance the loss through evaporation and otherwise when the period of storage is not more than from
one year to the next.
What has now been said covers the substance of the
evidence, as we regard it, bearing on the available supply
at Woods and in that vicinity, that is to say, the supply
remaining after the recognized Colorado appropriations
are satisfied.
We already have indicated that, as to such a stream as
this, the average flow of all years, high and low, cannot

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

be- taken as a proper or reasonable measure of what is
available for practical use. What then is. the amount
which is available here? According to the general consensus of opinion among practical irrigators and experienced irrigatidn engineers, the lowest natural flow of the
yearsis not the test. In practice they proceed on the view
that within limits, financially and physically feasible, a
fairly constant and dependable flow materially in excess
of the lowest may generally be obtained by means of
reservoirs adapted to conserving and equalizing the natural flow; and we regard this view as reasonable.
But Wyoming takes the position that she should not be
required to provide storage facilities in order that Colorado may obtain a larger amount of water from the common supply than otherwise would be possible. In a sense
this is true; but not to the extent of requiring that the
lowest natural flow be taken as the test of the available
supply. The question here is not what one State should
do for the other, but how each should exercise her relative
rights in the waters of this interstate stream. Both are interested in the stream and both have great need for the
water. Both subscribe to the doctrine of appropriation,
and by that doctrine rights to water are measured by what
is reasonably required and applied. Both States recognize that conservation within practicable limits is essential
in order that needless waste may be prevented and the
largest feasible use may be secured. This comports with
the all-pervading spirit of the doctrine of appropriation
and takes appropriate heed of the natural necessities out
of which it arose. We think that doctrine lays on each of
these States a duty to exercise her right reasonably and in
a manner calculated to conserve the common supply.
Notwithstanding her present contention, Wyoming has in
fact proceeded on this line, for, as the proof shows, her
appropriators, with her sanction, have provided and have
in service reservoir facilities which are adapted for the

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

purpose and reasonably sufficient to meet its requirements.
There is one respect, requiring mention, in which Colorado's situation differs materially from that of Wyoming.
The water to satisfy the Colorado appropriations is, and
in the nature of things must be, diverted in Colorado at
the head of the stream; and because of this those appropriations will not be affected by any variation in the
yearly flow, but will receive their full measure of water
in all years. On the other hand, the Wyoming appropriations will receive the water only after it passes down into
that State and must bear whatever of risk is incident to
the variation in the natural flow. Of course, this affords
no reason for underestimating the available supply, but it
does show that to overestimate it will work particular injury to Wyoming.
The lowest established flow was that of 1913. There is
no claim or proof that in any other year the flow fell so
low. Had there been others some proof of it doubtless
would have been presented. This is also true of the very
low flow of 1896. Therefore we think it reasonably may
be assumed that the flow of those years was so exceptional
that it is not likely to recur save at long intervals.
We conclude in view of all the evidence, and of the
several considerations we have stated, that the natural
and varying flow of this stream at Woods, which is after
the recognized Colorado appropriations are satisfied, is
susceptible by means of practicable storage and conservation of being converted into a fairly constant and dependable flow of 170,000 acre-feet per year, but not more.
This we hold to be the available supply at that point after
the recognized Colorado diversions are made. The
amount may seem large, but, considering what may be
accomplished with practicable storage facilities, such as
are already provided, and the use which may be made of

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

486

259 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the return water, we are persuaded that the amount, while
closely pressing the outside limit, is not too largd.
The problem to be worked out in obtaining a fairly dependable supply in that amount is measurably illustrated
by the following table covering all the years for which the
evidence supplies the requisite data, the flow during the
missing months being fairly estimated.
Year.

1889 ---------------1890 ---------------1891---------------1895 ................
1896 ................
1897 ................
1898 ---------------1899 ................
1900 ---------------1911................
1912 ................
1913 ----------------

Acre-feet.

151,349
187,406
226,146
239,239
127, 022
270, 074
136,765
409,730
267, 105
157, 240
213,241
113,593

variance from Variance from
ebua9 of
average of all,

-56,893
-20, 836
+17,904
+30,997
-81,220
+61, 831
-71,477
+201,488
+58, 863
-51,002
+4, 999
-94,649

-38,576
-2,519
+36, 221
+49,314
-62,903
+80,149
-53, 160
+219,805
+77, 180
-32, 685
+23,316
-76,332

Variance from
170,000.

-18,651
+17,406
+56,146
+69,239
-42, 978
+100,074
-33,235
+239, 730
+97, 105
-12, 760
+43,241
-56, 047

Average 208,242, including all years.
Average 189,925, including all years but 1899.

It of course is true that the variation in the flow will not
always be just what it was in the years covered by the
table, and yet the data obtained by the gaging and measurements in those years show better than anything else
what reasonably may be expected in the future. We
recognize that the problem which the table is intended to
illustrate is not a simple one and that to work it out will
involve the exercise of both skill and care. But in this it
is not unlike other problems of similar moment. Our belief gathered from all the evidence is that, with the attention which rightly should be bestowed on a problem of
such moment, it can be successfully solved within the
limits of what is financially and physically practicable.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

As to Sand Creek, Colorado's witness regarded it as a
tributary of the river and estimated its yearly flow at
17,000 acre-feet. The creek rises in Colorado, extends into
the Laramie Plains in Wyoming and discharges into Hutton Lake, a few miles from the river. In exceptional
years--about one in five-the waters of the creek overflow the lake for a short period and find their way over the
prairie into the river. Otherwise the river receives no
water from the creek. The proof of this is direct and undisputed. The creek is nominally a tributary of the river,
but only that. Besides, its flow does not appear to have
been measured. The witness merely estimated it at what
he thought would be the natural run-off of the adjacent
territory. Other evidence suggests that the estimate is
too high, but this we need not consider. A substantial
part of the flow is diverted, through what is known as the
Divide Ditch, for use in irrigating lands in Colorado, and
the evidence suggests, if it does not establish, that existing
appropriations in the two States take the entire flow. For
these reasons the waters of this creek cannot be regarded
as a factor in this controversy.
After passing Woods, and while traversing the territory
wherein are the Wyoming appropriations with which we
are concerned, the Laramie receives one large and some
very small additions to its waters.
The large addition comes from the Little Laramie, a
stream whose source and entire length are in Wyoming.
Its natural flow is a little more than one-half of that of
the main stream at Woods and is subject to much the same
variations. Part of its flow is used under appropriations
along its course and the remainder passes into the main
stream. Including what is appropriated along its course,
and excluding minor contributions by small creeks after
it gets well away from its headwaters, we think the amount
available for practical use is 93,000 acre-feet per year.
None of the small tributaries, whether of the Laramie
or the Little Laramie, adds much to the available supply.

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Their natural flow is small. As to some it is all used
under old appropriations; as to some it is partly used
under such appropriations; and as to some it is only
seasonal, the channels being dry much of, the year. Some
creeks spoken of in Colorado's evidence as tributaries are
otherwise shown not to be such, but to deliver their waters
into lakes or ponds not connected with either of the principal streams. Colorado's evidence also takes into account some tributaries which discharge into the Laramie
below the points of diversion of all the Wyoming appropriations with which we are concerned. One, of which
much is said in the evidence, is the Sybille. It reaches the
Laramie below the diversion for the Wheatland District
(the lowest diversion we are to consider), but in its course
passes through that district. A small part of its flow is
used in that district and it is not practicable to use more.
What is used should, for present purposes, be treated as if
it reached the Laramie above the Wheatland diversion.
Wyoming contends that none of these small tributaries,
other than the Sybille, contributes any dependable amount
to the available supply. We think there is in the aggregate a fairly dependable contribution of 25,000 acre-feet,
but not more.
It results that, in our opinion, the entire supply available for the proposed Colorado appropriation and the
Wyoming appropriations down to and including the diversion for the Wheatland District is 288,000 acre-feet.
In contending for a larger finding, Colorado points to
the issue by Wyoming's State Engineer of permits, socalled, for appropriations in excess of that amount and
insists that these permits constitute solemn adjudications
by that officer that the supply is adequate to cover them.
But in this the nature of the permits is misapprehended.
In fact and in law they are not adjudications, but mere
licenses to appropriate, if the requisite amount of water
be there. As to many nothing ever is done under them by

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

the intending appropriators. In such cases there is no appropriation; and even in others the amount of the appropriation turns on what is actually done under the permit.
In late years the permits relating to these streams have
contained a provision, saying: "The records of the State
Engineer's office show the waters of [the particular
stream] to be largely appropriated. The appropriator
under the permit is hereby notified of this fact, and the
issuance of this permit grants only the right to divert and
use the surplus or waste water of the stream and confers
no rights which will interfere with or impair the use of
water by prior appropriators." It therefore is plain that
these permits have no such probative force as Colorado
seeks to have attributed to them.
Colorado also comments on the amount of water stored
in Wyoming reservoirs in 1912 and seeks to draw from
this an inference that the available supply was greater
than we have indicated. But the inference is not justified, and for these reasons: First, a part of what was
stored was dead water, that is, was below the level from
which water could be drawn off and conducted to the
places of use. This is a matter commonly experienced
in the selection and use of reservoir sites. Secondly, the
flow of 1912 was above what could be depended on and
prudence required that a substantial part be carried over
to meet a possible shortage in the succeeding year. And,
thirdly, the evidence shows that in 1912 the storing
process was improvidently carried to a point which infringed the rights of small appropriators who were withbut storage facilities.
The available supply-the 288,000 acre-feet-is not
sufficient to satisfy the Wyoming appropriations dependent thereon and also the proposed Colorado appropriation,
so it becomes necessary to consider their relative priorities.
There are some existing Colorado appropriations having
priorities entitling them to precedence over many of the

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Wyoming appropriations. These recognized Colorado appropriations are, 18,000 acre-feet for what is known as
the Skyline Ditch and 4,250 acre-feet for the irrigation
of that number of acres of native-hay meadows in the
Laramie valley in Colorado, the 4,250 acre-feet being what
Colorado's chief witness testifies is reasonably required
for the purpose, although a larger amount is claimed in
the State's answer. These recognized Colorado appropriations, aggregating 22,250 acre-feet, are not to be deducted from the 288,000 acre-feet, that being the available supply after they are satisfied. Nor is Colorado's
appropriation from Sand Creek to be deducted, that creek,
as we have shown, not being a tributary of the Laramie.
The proposed Colorado appropriation which is in controversy here is spoken of in the evidence as the LaramiePoudre tunnel diversion and is part of an irrigation
project known as the Laramie-Poudre project. Colorado
insists that this proposed appropriation takes priority,
by relation, as of August 25, 1902, and Wyoming that the
priority can relate only to the latter part of 1909. The
true date is a matter of importance, because some large
irrigation works were started in Wyoming between the
dates mentioned, were diligently carried to completion,
and are entitled to priorities as of the dates when they
were started.
The Laramie-Poudre project is composed of several
units, originally distinct, which underwent many changes
before they were brought together in a single project. In
its final form the project is intended to divert water by
means of a tunnel from the Laramie River into the Poudre watershed, there to unite that water with water taken
from the Cache la, Poudre River and then to convey the
water many miles to the lower part of the Poudre valley,
where it is to be used in reclaiming and irrigating a body
of land contfining 125,000 acres. It is a large and ambitious project whose several parts, as finally brought

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

together, are adjusted to the attainment of that purpose.
The parts were separately conceived, each having a purpose of its own. The project now is intended to draw on
two independent sources of supply, each in a separate
watershed.' The appropriations are necessarily distinct.
Neither adds anything to, nor substracts anything from,
the status of the other. We are concerned with only one
of them.
The proposed tunnel diversion from the Laramie was
conceived as a possibility by Wallace A. Link in 1897 and
was explained by him to Abraham I. Akin in the spring
of 1902. Later in the year they visited the headwaters
of the two streams, looked over the ground, and agreed
that Link's idea was a good one, that the undertaking was
large and that they were without the means to carry it
through. They concluded to promote the project together; and, thinking their chances of success would be
improved by it, they also concluded to construct a ditch,
known as the Upper Rawah, from the Laramie valley to
a connection with an existing ditch, called the Skyline,
and to take water through these ditches into the Cache la
Poudre valley and there sell it. By this they hoped to
demonstrate that water was obtainable from that source
and to obtain money to be used in promoting their project.
The Skyline was a fair-sized ditch leading over a low
part of the divide to a branch of the Poudre, and they
'An engineer who had been connected with the work, and was a

witness for the defendants, said: "This system has two distinct and
independent sources of supply; that from the Laramie River and that
from the Poudre River basin and the tributaries of the South Platte,
and it was so designed that the Poudre Valley Canal could divert
water from the Poudre River and also from the northern tributaries
of the Poudre intercepted by the canal and from the tributaries of
the South Platte as far east as Crow Creek and intercepted by the
canal wherever there was surplus water. We estimated that the
amount of water available outside of the Laramie River source would
be between 80,000 and 100,000 acre-feet per annum as an average."

492

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

arranged with its owner for the carriage, on a percentage
basis, of water from their ditch when constructed. They
also conceived that the ditch could be used advantageously
in collecting and carrying water to be sent through the
tunnel, if and when the tunnel diversion was effected. In
1902, beginning August 25, they surveyed the line of the
Rawah and in October of that year filed a statement of
claim under it in the State Engineer's office. In the statement they said nothing about a tunnel diversion and
made claim only to the amount of water expected to be
carried through the Rawah and to the use of certain lakes
or natural reservoirs for storage purposes. No work was
done on the ditch that year. In 1903 they cleared some
of the land over which it was to run, but did no excavating. In 1904 they constructed 6,000 feet of the ditch
and did more clearing. No work was done on it in 1905
or 1906. Further work was done in 1907 and some washouts were repaired in 1908. That was the last work on
the Rawah. Much more than one-half of the ditch was
left unconstructed. No water was delivered through it
to the Skyline, nor was any sold or used. Nothing appears to have been done with the lakes or natural reservoirs.
In 1903 Link and Akin gave to each of three others
a one-fifth share in their project, in return for which the
new partners were to carry on solicitations to get capitalists interested and to raise money. The results of the
solicitations were disappointing, but some investors were
brought in and became concerned about the preliminary
plans. Differences of opinion arose and had to be dealt
with. The plans were examined and regxamined," alternative modes and places of diversion were considered and
investigated, particular features were eliminated and
others added, and in 1909, but not before, the project
was definitely brought into its present form. A short
reference to some of the details will serve to make this
plain.

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

In the Upper Rawah filing of October, 1902, nothing
was said about the proposed tunnel diversion, but a claim
was made to the use of certain lakes or natural reservoirs
described as having an aggregate capacity of 325,000,000
cubic feet. The tunnel diversion was merely a mental
conception until 1904. In March of that year a survey
was made of a tunnel site, a ditch from the west fork of the
Laramie to the east fork, and a channel reservoir on the
east fork above the tunnel site; and in May following a
statement of claim under them was filed, in which the
estimated cost of the tunnel and ditch was given as
$189,200 and that of the reservoir as $20,000. Later in
1904 a survey was made of a tunnel site, three collecting
ditches and two pipe lines, and in October of that year a
statement of claim under them was filed, in which the
estimated cost of the tunnel, ditches and pipe lines was
given as $375,000. The location and dimensions of the
tunnel in the second survey differed from those in the first.
The difference was not pronounced, and yet was a real
change. In September, 1906, another statement of claim
was filed covering the Upper Rawah Ditch, the lakes
connected therewith and the tunnel. This statement declared that the lakes were to be so enlarged that they
would have an aggregate capacity of 1,250,000,000 cubic
feet, instead of 325,000,000 as stated in the filing of 1902;
and it again changed the location and dimensions of the
tunnel,-this time more than before.
In 1905 and 1906 surveys were made to find a route
for an open canal from the Laramie around the mountains, through a portion of Wyoming and back to Colorado, which would avoid the construction of a tunnel and
the maintenance of ditches in the higher mountain levels;
and in 1908 a statement of claim covering such a canal
was fied, as was also a claim covering a large channel
reservoir nine miles down the stream from the tunnel site.
The estimated cost of the canal was given as $1,000,000

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

and that of the reservoir as $200,000. The plan evidenced by these filings was that of impounding the water
in the reservoir and liberating it in an equalized flow into
the canal, which was to carry it into the Poudre watershed without the aid of a tunnel. Late in 1908 and in
the fore part of 1909 another survey along the same general line and with the same purpose was made at a cost of
$15,000. Early in 1909 a statement of claim was filed
covering a proposed reservoir near the tunnel site, the
cost being estimated at $200,000.
In 1907 the Laramie-Poudre Reservoirs and Irrigation
Company succeeded to whatever rights the promoters had
acquired up to that time, and all subsequent surveys, investigations and filings were made by it. In April, 1909,
the Greeley-Poudre Irrigation District, within which the
water is intended to be used., was organized. At that time
sufficient capital had not been obtained to carry the project through in any form. In September following the
irrigation company and the irrigation district entered into
a tentative contract, under which the company was to
consummate the project in its present form, and, after
doing the construction work, was to transfer the property
to the district. Payment therefor was to be made in interest-bearing bonds of the district. By a vote taken the
next month, the district ratified the contract and authorized the issue of the bonds. About the last of that month
the work of boring the tunnel and making the diversion
was begun.
It is manifest from this historical outline that the question of whether, and also how, this proposed appropriation should be made remained an open one until the contract with the irrigation district was made and ratified in
1909. Up to that time the whole subject was at large.
There was no fixed or definite plan. It was all in an inceptive and formative stage,-investigations being almost
constantly in progress to determine its feasibility and

WYOMING v. COLORADO.
419.

Opinion of the Court.

whether changes and alternatives should be adopted rather
than the primary conception. It had not reached a point
where there was a fixed and definite purpose to take it up
and carry it through. An appropriation does not take
priority by relation as of a time anterior to the existence
of such a purpose.
It no doubt is true that the original promoters intended
all along to make a large appropriation from the Laramie
by some means, provided the requisite capital could be
obtained, but this is an altogether inadequate basis for
applying the doctrine of relation.
No separate appropriation was effected by what was
done on the Upper Rawah Ditch. The purpose to use it
in connection with the Skyline was not carried out, but
abandoned. This, as Link testified, was its "principal"
purpose. The purpose to make it an accessory of the large
project was secondary and contingent. Therefore the
work on it cannot be taken as affecting or tolling back the
priority of that project.
Actual work in making the tunnel diversion was begun
as before shown, about the last of October, 1909. Thereafter it was prosecuted with much diligence and in 1911,
when this suit was brought, it had been carried so nearly
to a state of completion that the assumption reasonably
may be indulged that, but for the suit, the appropriation
soon would have been perfected. We conclude that the
appropriation should be accorded a priority by relation
as of the latter part of October, 1909, when the work was
begun.
Applying a like rule to the Wyoming appropriations,
several of them must be treated as relating to later dates,
and therefore as being junior to that appropriation. Some
of the projects in that State are founded on a plurality of
appropriations, a part of which are senior and a part
junior to that one.
The evidence shows that the Wyoming appropriations
having priorities senior to the one in Colorado, and which

