30A

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

FIDELITY TITLE & TRUST COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 208. Argued April 21, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. The limitation on actions in the Court of Claims on claims arising
under the Refunding Act of July 27, 1912, is six years. P. 305.
Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. United States, ante, 296.
2. In an action in the Court of Claims by a corporation engaged in
banking and other kinds of business, to recover bankers' taxes
collected under the Act of June 13, 1898, c. 448, ยง 2, 30 Stat. 448,
upon the ground that its capital was not used or employed in
banking, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove that none of it,
or less than the amount for which it was assessed, was used or
employed in its banking department. P. 306. Cf. Fidelity &
Deposit Co. v. United States, ante, 296.
3. This burden is not sustained where the business and assets of the
several departments were not separated, where the proportions
of capital and accumulated profits used in the respective departments were not shown, where there was no finding that the net
profits of the 'banking department came solely from the use of
depositors' money, and where a finding that no part of the capital
and accumulated profits was used in banking, or findings from
which the proportion so used, if any, could be determined, were
not requested. P. 306.
4. In providing that, in estimating capital, surplus shall be included,
the Act of 1898, supra, takes no account of the technical distinction between surplus and undivided profits often made by banking
corporations, but embraces all capital used or employed in banking,
including funds designated as undivided profits. P. 307.
55 Ct. Clms. 535, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Clams dismissing a petition for recovery of money paid as bankers'
special taxes under the Spanish War Revenue Act of June
13, 1898.
Mr. George Sutherland, with whom Mr. Simon Lyon
and Mr. R. B. H. Lyon were on the briefs, for appellant.

FIDELITY TITLE CO. v. U. S.
304.

305

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Lovett, with whom Mr.
Solicitor GeneralBeck, Mr. Carl A. Mapes and Mr. B. H.
Littleton were on the briefs, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This suit was brought in the Court of Claims by the
Fidelity Title & Trust Company of Pittsburgh, in July,
1918, to recover the sum of $10,028.94 assessed upon its
whole capital and undivided profits and paid as bankers'
special taxes under ยง 2 of the Spanish War Revenue Act.
That court entered judgment for the defendant; and the
case is here on appeal. Appellant contends that nothing
was payable as a tax, because none of the capital or undivided profits was used or employed in banking; and
that the tax was, in no event, assessable on the undivided
profits, because these were not a part of the capital within
the meaning of the act. The Government contends that
the whole capital and undivided profits were taxable; and
that, in any event, the action is barred by the two-year
statute of limitations, because the application for refund
had been made in November, 1913. In the main, the
facts are similar to, and the questions of law are the same,
as those considered in Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. United
States, ante, 296. For the reasons there stated we hold
that the action was not barred. As bearing upon the
merits material differences in the facts must be considered. In the case now under consideration, the businesses
and the assets of the several departments were not separated; and there was not technically a surplus, but a fund
designated as undivided profits.
The company carried on five classes of business, one of
which was banking. An amount in excess of its capital
was permanently invested in bonds and real estate, the
latter including its office building. A schedule of these
investments was carried on the books designated "Sched-

$06

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ule of Investments of the Capital Stock of One Million
Dollars "; but there was no physical segregation of these
assets from others- belonging to the company. Nor was
there segregation of the money received from the capital
stock, or from investments made therewith, from the
money derived from earnings of the several departments.
No attempt was made to segregate or earmark investments as having been made for any particular department. All moneys received by the company, including
bank deposits, were commingled; and from these general
funds all investments were made and all expenses and
losses were paid. The office building was used by all the
departments. All the earnings from the several departments were pooled and went into the profit and loss
account. There was cgrried in this account a credit representing undivided profits amounting in 1898 to $414,468.86, which increased from year to year and was $948,074.56 in 1902. These -undivided profits were not at any
time during the period in question set apart in any way
as a separate fund and they were at all times subject to
distribution by the board of directors as dividends and
available for any department of the business. At a date
subsequent to the period here in question additional stock
was sold above par to form a surplus fund.
The burden lay on the plaintiff to establish that none
of the company's capital, or that less of it than the
amount for which it was assessed, had been used or employed in the banking department. It failed entirely to
sustain that burden. The propoitions of capital and accumulated profits used in the respective departments were
not established by the evidence. There was no finding
that the net profits of the banking department were
received solely from the use of depositors' money. And
there does not appear to have been any request for a finding of fact that no part of the capital and undivided
profits was used in banking; or for a finding of facts from

FIDELITY TITLE CO. v. U. S.
304.

Opinion of the Court.

which the proportion so used, if any, could be determined.
Therefore the Court of Claims properly denied recovery
for any part of the taxes paid; unless we can say, as matter of law, that undivided profits, on which for the years
1898 and 1901 taxes were assessed as upon capital, were
not assessable as such.
The act declares that "in estimating capital surplus
shall be included" and that the "annual tax shall in all
cases be computed on the basis of the capital and surplus
for the preceding fiscal year." The act does not mention
undivided profits. The question is whether Congress intended to draw a distinction between surplus and undivided profits; or intended that all capital actually used
in banking should be taxed, whether it was strictly capital
stock, or surplus or undivided profits.
The company argues that while the word surplus, in its
general and popular meaning, includes undivided profits,
Congress in the Act of 1898 used the term in its technical
and restricted sense of a fund formally set apart and called
surplus by the authorized officers of the bank; and that,
as matter of law, no tax can be assessed on undivided
profits. This view finds support in opinions of the Attorney General rendered in 1899 and 1900. 22 Ops. Atty.
Gen. 320; 23 Ops. Atty. Gen. 341. But his rulings were
not acquiesced in by the Treasury Department. 'It recommended promptly an amendment of the act which
should expressly declare that undivided profits were to be
considered surplus, Annual Reports of Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, 1899, p. 91; 1900, p. 89; and it submitted the question thereafter to the courts for determination. In Leather Manufacturers' National Bank v.
Treat, 116 Fed. 774 (1902), the Circuit Court'held that
undivided profits were subject to taxation; and the judgment in that case was affirmed by the Circuit Court -of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, 128 Fed. 262 (1904).

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

With these courts we agree. By the Act of 1898 Congress
imposed the tax, not on incorporated banks only, but also
on any person, firm or company engaged in banking. And
it measured the tax by the amount of capital actually
used or employed in banking. The technical distinction
between capital, surplus and undivided profits is -obviously not applicable to the banking business when conducted by individuals or firms; and the distinction between surplus and undivided profits, while commonly observed by incorporated banks, is not ordinarily made by
other business corporations. As it is the use or employment of capital in banking, not mere possession thereof
by the banker, which determines the amount of the tax,
the fact that a portion of the capital so used or employed
is designated undivided profits is of no legal significance.'
Compare Fidelity & Deposit Co. v. United States, ante, 296.
But while capital assets of a banker are not, as matter
of law, exempt from taxation under the Act of 1898 merely
because they are designated undivided profits, undivided
profits, like any other part of the company's capital, may
be free from the tax, because they were not, in fact, used
or employed in banking. And the company contends that
the Court of Claims did find as a fact that these undivided
profits were not so used. The passage in the findings
relied upon is this: "The said profit and loss credit balance was never designated as or set apart or appropriated
to capital or surplus or used for capital or surplus purposes." It is argued that the last clause of the sentence
means that none of the undivided profits were used for
banking purposes. The contention is plausible. But
1

The Revenue Act of October 22, 1914, c. 331, 38 Stat. 745, 750,
provides in terms that undivided profits shall be included in capital.
It. is under this act that Anderson v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co.,
241 Fed. 322, 327; Real Estate Title Insurance & Trust Co. v.
Lederer, 229 Fed. 799; Germantown Trust Co. v. Lederer, 263 Fed.
673, relied upon by the Government, were decided.

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
304.

309

Syllabus.

when the passage is read in connection with other parts
of the findings, it seems clear that such was not the meaning of the court. There was, thus, no finding to the effect
that the undistributed profits, as distinguished from capital, were not used or employed in banking.

Affirmed.
COLLINS v. LOISEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 672.

Argued April 28, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. To warrant extradition (in this case to India under the treaties
with Great Britain) it "is not necessary that the name by which
the crime is described in the two countries be the same, nor that
the scope of the liability be coextensive, or, in other respects, the
same in each; it is enough if the particular act charged is criminal
in both jurisdictions. P. 311.
2. The Act of August 3, 1882, c. 378, ยง 5, 22 Stat. 216, repealing
Rev. Stats. ยง 5271" so far as inconsistent, admits as evidence in
extradition proceedings, warrants and other papers, and copies
thereof, as well as depositions, authenticated so as to authorize
their admission for similar purposes in courts of the foreign country, when such authentication is proven by the certificate of the
principal diplomatic or consular officer of the United States resident
in such country. P. 313.
3. In extradition for an offense committed at Bombay, India is the
"foreign country ", within the meaning of this statute, and the
papers may be certified by the Consul General of the United States
stationed at Calcutta, of whose identity and of whose status as our
principal diplomatic or consular officer resident in that country
the court takes judicial notice. P. 314.
4. Evidence that the accused obtained valuable personal property by
knowingly false representatibns of his wealth and standing, of his
authority to draw the draft given the vendor and of the identity
and financial standing of the drawee, held sufficient to show an
obtaining by false pretenses within the law of Louisiana as well
as a cheat at common law. P. 314.

