PINE HILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

PINE HILL COAL COMPANY, INC. v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 101.

Argued January 20, 1922-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. Section 25 of the "Lever Act" of August 10, 1917, c. 53, 40 Stat.
284, authorized the fixing of all prices of coal and the regulation of

its distribution among dealers and consumers during the war, and
the taking over by the President, for just compensation, of plants

and businesses of producers and dealers who neglected to conform
to such prices or regulations, and further provided that "if the
prices so fixed," or the compensation as determined under the act
in case of requisition, were not satisfactory to the persons entitled
to receive them, they should be paid seventy-five per centum "of
the amount so determined" and be "entitled to sue the United
States to recover such further sum as, added to said seventy-five
per centum, will make up such amount as will be just compensation ". Held, that the prices last referred to are only those to be
paid by the Government, and that the act cannot be construed
as an undertaking by the United States to indemnify producers
who sold to third parties where the prices fixed were unjust and
unreasonable. P. 195.
2. A construction of a statute which would make the Government
liable, in great sums, for losses resulting to individuals from obedience to its regulations, cannot be based upon the vicissitudes attending the passage of the bill nor be adopted unless expressed in the
plainest language. P..196.
55 Ct. Clms. 433, affirmed.

APPF, from a judgment sustaining a demurrer to a
petition setting up a claim to indemnity for losses resulting from sales of coal at prices fixed by the Government.
Mr. Henry S. Drinker, Jr., with whom Mr. Thomas
Reath, Jr., Mr. Percy C. Madeira, Jr., Mr. Douglas M.
Moffat and Mr. William A. Glasgow, Jr., were on the brief,
for appellant.
The purpose of the act was to stimulate maximum production,

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant.

259 U. S.

Congress was face to face with a serious problem concerning fuel regulation, and that problem must be understood and appreciated before the solution provided
in the Lever Act can be properly construed. If prices
were fixed too high, the householder and manufacturer
would have been justly aroused, and the public would
have had to bear an unnecessary increase in the then
rapidly mounting cost of the war. If prices were fixed
too low, there was the probability either that the high
cost operators would be forced to close their coal mines,
thus endangering the supply of coal for war purposes, or
else that they might apply to the courts to enjoin the low
prices as confiscatory, and before the matter could have
been finally settled the war would have been over and the
whole purpose of regulation unaccomplished.
An additional difficulty in the fixing of fair prices was
the fact that the cost of mining necessarily varied not
only as between different regions, but as between different
operators in the same locality, and what might be a fair
price for one would not be for another.
The best solution of this problem obviously was for
the Government to fix the price of coal at an average
figure low enough to stimulate its use in manufacture,
and at the same time to guarantee to any particular producer of coal who was required to sell his product at the
fixed price, that, if the latter were not sufficient to cover
his actual cost of production plus a fair profit, the United
States would make up the difference.
It is, we submit, exactly the solution which Congress
intended to adopt and did in fact adopt in § 25 of the
Lever Act.
Our position may be summarized as follows:
(1) It is entirely reasonable to suppose that Congress
would have intended to prevent interference with a wartime regulation of prices by making a guaranty to those
for whom the prices fixed were not fair.

PINE HILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
191.

Argument for Appellant.

(2) From the wording of par. 4, § 25, of the Lever
Act, it is plain that some remedy was intended to be
given to the seller on sales made to others than the
United States because: the words "prices so fixed" in
par. 4 refer to the precedent authority in par. 1 to fix
prices on sales other than to the United States; and
these words cannot refer to the fixing of prices on sales
to the United States authorized in the subsequent par.
6, because the remedy for the abuse of the authority in
par. 6 is fully and completely covered by the subsequent
par. 8, which refers explicitly to par. 6.
(3) Since some remedy was intended to be given the
seller on sales between producer and consumer, and since
it would be absurd to suppose that Congress intended to
make up the difference between 75% of the price fixed
and a reasonable price, the only possible conclusion is
that the producer was to receive the whole of the price
from his purchaser, and have a right to sue the United
States for the difference between that and a reasonable
price.
(4) An examination of this provision as it passed the
Senate shows conclusively that such a right was then
given, and the report of the conference committee shows
that the only change intended to be made by the committee in this provision concerned sales to the United
States and that no change was contemplated as applied
to sales from producer to consumer.
(5) The wording is obscure as it stands, and cannot
be made entirely clear without either eliminating or
inserting certain words. The construction for which we
contend does less violence to the structure of the paragraph, and is more consistent with the other portions
of the section and with the general intent of Congress
than any other possible construction.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles S. Lawrence were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR.JusTiFc

HOL ES delivered the opinion of the court.

This case like Morrisdale Coal Co. v. United States,
ante, 188, is a claim based upon the action of the Fuel
Administration under the Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53,
§ 25, 40 Stat. 276, 284, fixing prices for coal. The allegations and arguments however are different. The transactions of the claimant from and including September,
1917, through January, 1919, are set forth in detail. They
embrace large sales at government prices and smaller
sales at other than those prices. It is alleged that the
prices fixed for the claimant's coal were unjust and unreasonable and did not afford just compensation, and that as
a result of keeping to them, as the claimant did, the receipts were actually less than the cost of production. On
these facts the petition sets up a contract of indemnity on
the part of the United States arising out of the language
to be quoted from § 25. It was dismissed on demurrer by
the Court of Claims.
The paragraph of § 25 that is relied upon follows paragraphs givinj authority to the President personally or
through the Federal Trade Commission to fix the price of
coal and coke, to regulate the method of distribution among
dealers and consumers during the war, and if a producer
or dealer neglects to conform to such prices or regulations
&c., to take over the plant and business, paying a just
compensation. The paragraph in question reads: "That
if the prices so fixed, or if, in the case of the taking over
or requisitioning of the mines or business of any such producer or dealer the compensation therefor as determined
by the provisions of this Act be not satisfactory to the
person or persons entitled to receive the same, such person
shall be paid seventy-five per centum of the amount so

PINE HILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
191.

Opinion of the Court.

determined, and shall be entitled to sue the United States
to recover such further sum as, added to said seventy-five
per centum, will make up such amount as will be just
compensation in the manner provided by section twentyfour, paragraph twenty, and section one hundred and
forty-five of the Judicial Code." The latter section of the
Judicial Code is the one that gives jurisdiction to the
Court of Claims and the former that which gives a limited
concurrent jurisdiction to the District Courts.
It is obvious that the words as they stand cannot be
applied to sales by producers to third persons; for it would
*beabsurd to suppose that the United States undertook to
pay not only such additional sum as might be awarded but
also the last twenty-five per centum of the price as fixed,
leaving the buyer to retain that amount. The claimant
admits this, but insists that however read the paragraph
cannot be followed without correction. It argues that
the opening words, "if the prices so fixed ", necessarily
apply to prices in general as fixed by the power just given
in the section. Therefore, it says, there should be interpolated in the provision that the seller shall be paid seventy-five per centum the words "the prices so fixed or ";
and in like manner that the provision for recovery should
read that he shall recover such sum as added to "the said
prices or" said seventy-five per centum will be just. It
points out that while seeking to stimulate production in
aid of the war the Government could not fix very high
prices without arousing householders and manufacturers,
or very low ones without endangering the supply and incurring the charge of confiscation. It is said that the natural way out of the difficulty was for the Government to
guarantee a just return, and that by so doing it avoided
doubts as to the constitutionality of the statute. There is
offered a critical and refined scrutiny of the history of the
amendment that introduced the claim. The argument is
that the section that became § 25, when originally offered

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

as an amendment, clearly provided for payment in all
cases, that a modification was introduced for payment of
only seventy-five per centum upon takings by the United
States, but that it was not intended to change the general
scope of the relief. Other makeweights are thrown in to
which we think it unnecessary to advert.
It is a delicate business to base speculations about the
purposes or construction of a statute upon the vicissitudes
of its passage. Here we have as against the arguments of
the claimant the fundamental and necessarily governing
consideration that rightly prevailed below. A liability in
any case is not to be imposed upon a government without
clear words. But liability for a regulation, for the consequences of a law, on the part of the legislating power, is
most unusual, and where, as here, the liability would
mount to great sums, only the plainest language could
warrant a court in taking it to be imposed. The general
words "the prices so fixed" taken by themselves no doubt
would include prices to private purchasers, but the specific
provision as to paying seventy-five per centumn prevails
over them on the usual principles of construction and excludes a reference to any prices except those paid by the
Government. It is said that those prices are provided for
elsewhere, but the claimant's argument presses the consideration that the law had to be hastily passed, and unnecessary reduplication is far more easy to admit than an
enormous charge upon the United States that can be
fastened upon it only by inserting into a statute words
that are not there.
Judgment affirmed.

