188

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

And it is this separation that gives character to the employment, as we have said, as being in or not in commerce.
Such, we think, was the situation of the engine in the
present case. It was placed in the shop for general repairs
on December 19, 1918. On February 25, 1919, after work
upon it, it was given a trial and it was placed in service
on March 4, 1919. The accident occurred on February
1st of that year, the engine at the time being nearly
stripped and dismantled. "It was not interrupted in an
interstate haul to be repaired and go on." Minneapolis
& St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Winters, 242 U. S. 353, 356;
Chicago, Kalamazoo & Saginaw Ry. Co. v. Kindlesparker,
246 U. S. 657.
Further discussion is unnecessary though we are besought to declare a standard invariable by circumstances
or free from confusion by them in application. If that
were ever possible, it is not so now. Besides, things do
not have to be in broad contrast to have different practical
and legal consequences. Actions take estimation from
degrees and of this, life and law are replete with examples.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded for further
proceedingsin accordance with this opinion.
MORRISDALE COAL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 65. Argued January 6, 9, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
Pursuant to regulations made under the "Lever Act" of August 10,
1917, c. 53, ยง 25, 40 Stat. 284, which authorized the President,
for the efficient prosecution of the late war, to fix the price of
coal and regulate the distribution of it among dealers and consumers, claimant's coal was sold by it to private buyers at a price
fixed by the Government which was less than the claimant had
previously contracted to sell it for to others. Held, that there

MORRISDALE COAL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
188.

189

Opinion of the Court.

was no taking by the Government and no contract to be implied
that it would indemnify claimant for the loss. P. 189.
55 It. Clms. 310, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing appellant's petition upon demurrer.
Mr. Gibbs L. Baker, with whom Mr. Karl Knox Gartner was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr. Charles S. Lawrence
were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMEES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the appellant's petition upon demurrer.
The petition alleges that the claimant had outstanding
contracts calling for more than the actual production of its
mines for the months of June and following through November, 1918, at a price of $4.50 per gross ton; that the
Fuel Administration appointed by the President during
the war "requisitioned and compelled petitioner to divert
12,823.89 tons of coal" during the period mentioned; that
the price received for this coal was $3.304 per gross ton,
and that the claimant thereby suffered a loss of $15,337.37,
for which loss it asks judgment against the United States.
The petition does not allege or mean that the United
States took the coal to its own use. The meaning attributed to it by the claimant is merely that the Fuel Administration fixed the price on coal of this quality at $3.304 per
gross ton and issued orders from time to time directing
coal to such employments as best would promote the prosecution of the war. The Fuel Administration acted under
a delegation from the President of the power conferred
upon him by the Act of August 10, 1917, c. 53, ยง 25, 40
Stat. 276, 284, to fix the price of coal and to regulate dis-

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

tribution of it among dealers and consumers; the price so
fixed not to invalidate contracts previously made in good
faith in which prices are fixed. 40 Stat. 286. The claimant does not argue that this section provides compensation for obedience to orders made in pursuance of the
same; it agrees, and rightly, that its remedy, if any, is
under ยง 145 of the Judicial Code giving the Court of
Claims jurisdiction of claims upon any contract, express
or implied, with the Government. It contends that upon
the facts stated a contract on the part of the Government
must be implied, both from the statute and by virtue of
the Fifth Amendment on the ground that its property was
taken for public use.
We see no ground for the claim. The claimant in consequence of the regulation mentioned sold some of its coal to
other parties at a less price than what otherwise it would
have got. That is all. It now seeks to hold the Government answerable for making a rule that it saw fit to obey.
Whether the rule was valid or void no such consequence
follows. Making the rule was not a taking and no lawmaking power promises by implication to make good losses
that may be incurred by obedience to its commands. If
the law requires a party to give up property to a third
person without adequate compensation the remedy is, if
necessary, to refuse to obey it, not to sue the lawmaker.
The statute provides remedies against the Government in
other cases, but the claimant argues that this case does
not fall within them, and it did not follpw the steps precribed for them. The petition does not even allege that
the price the claimant got was not a fair one but only that
if the Government had not issued the regulation it would'
have got more under its contract. Considerably more
than that is needed before a promise of indemnity from
the Government can be implied. See American Smelting
& Refining Co. v. United States, ante, 75.
Judgment affirmed.

