SOUTH COVINGTON RY. CO. v. NEWPORT.

97

Syllabus.

80.

peal of an act of Congress, and violation or abrogation of
a treaty obligation, by implication?
I put my dissent upon the inherent improbability of
such intention-not because it takes a facility from intoxicating liquor but because of its evil and invidious
precedent, and this at a time when the nations of the
earth are assembling in leagues and conferences to assure one another that diplomacy is not deceit and that
there is a security in the declaration of treaties, not only
against material aggression but against infidelity to engagements when interest tempts or some purpose antagonizes. Indeed I may say there is a growing aspiration
that the time will come when nations will not do as they
please and bid their wills avouch it.
I think the judgment in No. 615 should be affirmed and
Ahat in No. 639 reversed.
SOUTH COVINGTON

& CINCINNATI

STREET

RAILWAY COMPANY, ET AL. v. CITY OF NEWPORT, KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 203.

Argued April 13, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

The bill alleged that the plaintiffs were corporations operating electric
street cars and distributing electric current under perpetual franchises in the city; that under superv4sion and direction of th icity
authorities they constructed a high tension wire to obtain necessary additional current from another company; that afterwards the
city council by resolution directed speedy removal of the wire,
declaring i't dangerous to life and property, contrary to the fact,
and that, unless restrained, the city would forcibly remove and
destroy it, thereby interfering with the operation of plaintiffs'
railway, lighting and power systems, and causing them irreparable
damage, in violation of their rights under the Contract Clause of
the Constitution and the due process clause of the Fourteenth

98

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Amendment; and prayed that the resolution be declared null and
the city, its officers, etc., be enjoined from enforcing it, Held:
(1) That the bill set up a substantial federal question and conferred jurisdiction on the District Court. P. 99. Des Moines v.
Des Moines City Ry. Co., 214 U. S. 179, distinguished.
(2) That the jurisdiction, having attached, could not be defeated
by an answer denying the city's intention to enforce the resolution
except through an order of court. P. 100.
Reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
for want of jurisdiction'a bill to restrain the defendant city
from forcible removal and destruction of an electric wire.
Mr. Alfred C. Cassatt,with whom Mr. RichardP. Ernst,
Mr. Frank W. Cottle and Mr. Matt Herold were on the
briefs, for appellants.
Mr. Brent Spence for appellee.
MRlT. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
In their original bill appellants allege: That they hold
perpetual franchises over certain streets in Newport, Kentucky, for operating street cars and distributing electric
current; that in due course it became necessary for them
to obtain an additional current from another company;
and that to that end in 1915, under supervision and direction of the city authorities, they constructed a high tension wire extending froil Central Bridge to their power
house. That on November 20, 1917, the Board of Commissioners of Newport adopted a resolution which declared this current dangerous to life and property, and
directed removal of the wire not later than December 1,
1917.
The bill further alleges that "unless restrained by this
court defendant will forcibly remove and destroy said wire
thereby interfering with the operation of the street rail-

SOUTH COVINGTON RY.CO. v. NEWPORT.
97.

99

Opinion of the Court.

way system and the electric lighting and power system
above described, causing plaintiffs injury which cannot be
compensated in money and to their irreparable damage,"
and that "it is not true that said wire is dangerous to
either life or property and that said resolution is unreasonable and in violation of the rights of plaintiffs as hereinabove set forth; that it is an impairment of the obligations of the aforesaid contracts and each of them, in violation of Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution of the
United States and is a taking of plaintiffs' property without due process of law in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment to said ConstitutiQn of the United States."
The relief prayed is that the resolution be declared null
and that the City, its officers, agents and employees be
enjoined from enforcing or attempting to enforce the
same.
Relying upon Des Moines v. Des Moines City Ry. Co.,
214 U. S.179, the court below dismissed the bill for want
of jurisdiction. The cause comes here by direct appeal,
and only the question of jurisdiction is before us.
Where, as here, the jurisdiction of a District Court has
been invoked on the sole ground that the cause involves
a federal question, and this is duly challenged, the issue
must be determined by considering the allegations of the
bill. If they distinctly disclose a real, substantial question of that nature, there is jurisdiction; otherwise there
is none. City Ry. Co. v. Citizens' Street R. R. Co., 166
U. S. 557, 562; Pacific Electric Ry. Co. v. Los Angeles,
194 U. S. 112, 118; Columbus Ry., Power & Light Co. v.
Columbus, 249 U. S.399, 406.
A mere formal statement that such question exists does
not suffice. The allegations must show that "the suit is
one which does really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy as to a right which depends on the construction or application of the Constitution, or some law,
or treaty of the United States." American Sugar Refining

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Dissent.

259 U. S.

Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U. S. 277, 281; Hull v. Burr, 234
U. S. 712, 720; Norton v. Whiteside, 239 U. S. 144, 147.
Properly understood, Des Moines v. Des Moines City
Ry. Co., supra, is in harmony with these well-established
principles. There the bill disclosed that the only affirmative action contemplated by the City was the institution
of an orderly proceeding in court. Such action could not
in any proper sense violate a right under the Constitution,
laws or treaties of the United States. The bill did not,
therefore, present a substantial federal question, and for
that reason jurisdiction did not exist.
Here it is affirmatively alleged that the City intends
forcibly to remove and destroy appellants' property and
thereby violate their 'constitutional rights. This presented a substantial claim under the Constitution.
In an amended answer defendant denied intention to
enforce the resolution except through an order of court.
But the necessary facts having been alleged by the bill,
jurisdiction could not be thus defeated. The denial went
to the merits of the claim. The Fair v. Kohler Die Co.,
228 U. S. 22, 25; St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co. v. St. Paul
N. P. R. R. Co., 68 Fed. 2, 10.
The judgment below must be reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUsTIcE PITNzy concurs in the result.
MR. JusTIcE BRAwDIS and MR. JuSTIce. CLRAIx

sent.

dis-

