OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
259 U. S.

Syllabus.

agreement the effect of which was to take from them the
right to employ whomsoever they deemed proper, and at
the same time deprive former employees of their constitutional right to seek employment. It seems to us clear

that the State might, without conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment, enact through its legislative department a statute precisely to the same effect as the rule
of law and public policy declared by its court of last resort. And for the purposes of our jurisdiction it makes no
difference, under that Amendment, through what department the State has acted. The decision is as valid as a
statute would be. No question of "equal protection"
is raised here.
The judgment under review must be and is
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE
MR. JusTicE McREYNoLDs dissent.

VAw DEVANTER and

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PERRY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 19. Argued April 20, 1921; restored to docket for reargument
June 6, 1921; reargued October 6, 1921.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. Where an issue upon the constitutionality of a state statute,
though not actively litigated in the trial court, is actually decided
by the state court of last resort in favor of the statute, its judgment is reviewable here under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as amended September 6, 1916. P. 551.
2. The law of Oklahoma requiring public service corporations to issue to employees, when discharged from or voluntarily quitting
their service, letters setting forth the nature of service rendered by
such employees, and its duration, with a true statement of the cause
of discharge or leaving, is consistent with due process and the equal
protection of the laws. Pp. 555, 556. PrudentialInsurance Co. v.

Cheek, ante, 530,

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. PERRY.
548.

549

Opinion of the Court.

3. Provisions that such letters shall be on plain paper selected by
the employee, signed in ink and sealed by the superintendent or
manager, and' free from superfluous figures, words, designs, etc.,
are likewise valid. P. 555.
75 Okla. 25, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma, affirming a judgment for the plaintiff Perry in his
action for damages against the railway company.
Mr. C. 0. Blake, Mr. W. R. Bleakmore, Mr. John W.
Willmott, Mr..R. J. Roberts, Mr. Thomas P. Littlepage
and Mr. Sidney F. Taliaferro, for plaintiff in error, submitted. Mr. Raymond A. Tolbert and Mr. Roy S. Lewis
also were on the briefs.1
Mr. Phil. D. Brewer, .with whom Mr. Edward S. Vaught
and Mr. Jean H. Everest were on the briefs, for defendant
in error.
MAR. JusTICE PrrmEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error was sued out to test the validity, in
view of the due process and equal protection provisions
of the Fourteenth Amendment, of the Service Letter Law
of Oklahoma (Act of April 24, 1908, Oklahoma Laws
1907-08, p. 516; Revised Laws Oklahoma 1910, ยง 3769),
applicable to public service corporations and the like, in
a case that arose under the following circumstances.
Daniel J. Perry, defendant in error, brought suit against
Jacob M. Dickinson, then receiver of the Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company (the company itself
afterwards was substituted in his place while the cause
was pending in the Supreme Court of the State). Plaintiff alleged that while in the employ of the company,
1

At the former hearing the case was argued by Mr. Blake on behalf
of the plaintiff in error, and submitted by Messrs. Vaught and Everest
for defendant in error.

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

which operated a railway in Oklahoma and by which he
had been employed continuously for a period of years,
and while in the performance of his duties as switchman,
he received severe personal injuries caused by a defect in
a car brake, which either was known or in the exercise of
due care by its employees would have become known to
the railway company; the latter acknowledged responsibility for his injuries, settled with him through its claim
agent on the basis of the company's negligence, furnished
him with hospital treatment before and after the settlement; after some months dismissed him from the hospital
as able to resume work; then refused to reemploy him
on the ground that he was ineligible by reason of physical
incapacity; and after he had unavailingly sought reemployment at intervals during two years, furnished him
through its superintendent with a service letter certifying (correctly) that he had been employed upon the company's lines as switchman for a period named, and (contrary to the fact) that he had been dismissed on account
of his responsibility in a case of personal injury to himself June 30, 1913, his service being otherwise satisfactory; and he averred that because of this letter he had
been unable to secure employment although competent,
able and willing.
Defendant, besides a general denial, averred that the
statute upon which the action was based was void because it deprived defendant of the due process of law and
denied to it the equal protection of the laws guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment, and also because it violated a section of the state donstitution in denying to defendant freedom of speech, including the right to remain
silent. A trial by jury resulted in a verdict and judgment for plaintiff, which on appeal was affirmed by the
Supreme Court. Dickinson v. Perry, 75 Okla. 25.
That court overruled the contention that the proof
failed to show that the service letter given to plaintiff

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. PERRY.
548.

551

Opinion of the Court.

did not truly state the cause of his discharge; then proceeded to discuss the constitutional questions, sustained
the act, and affirmed the judgment.
Defendant in error moves to dismiss the writ of error
on the ground that the constitutionality of the act was
not really at issue; that the trial judge's instructions to
the jury show that the only substantial question was
whether the statements made in the letter actually given
by the defendant were false and derogatory, and whether
plaintiff had suffered damage thereby. But since the
court of last resort of the State actually dealt with and
passed upon the question raised by plaintiff in error as to
the validity of the statute upon the ground of its being
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and
decided in favor of its validity, it is clear that, under the
first paragraph of ยง 237, Judicial Code, as amended by
Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, we have
jurisdiction to pass upon the question, and the motion to
dismiss must be denied. Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232
U. S. 236, 243; North CarolinaR. R. Co. v. Zachary, 232
U. S.248, 257.
Again, in discussing the merits, defendant in error insists that the federal question is not necessarily involved;
that the constitutional objection was waived when the
company, instead of refusing to give a letter, of its own
volition gave to Perry upon his dismissal a service letter
which was false and derogatory, and which caused special
damage that was pleaded and proved. At first blush, it
seems somewhat strange for the company to aver that it
acted under compulsion of a void statute, when what it did
was contrary to the command of the statute; it almost looks
as if it were merely held in damages for what ordinarily
might be called a libel. But the case cannot properly be
dealt with upon this ground. The Supreme Court of
Oklahoma not only passed upon the question of the constitutionality of the Service Letter Law but deemed it

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

necessary to pass upon it. So far as can be gathered from
its opinion, there was no other legal ground upon which
the judgment could be supported. Apparently, under the
law of Oklahoma apart from the statute, no legal duty
was imposed upon the employer in such a case to speak
the truth in a communication made respecting a discharged employee, nor was there other ground of liability
for damages in case of its falsity. The statute is the
essential foundation upon which the judgment rests, and
we cannot find that the objections to its validity have
been waived.
The act (Oklahoma Laws 1907-08, p. 516; Revised
Laws Oklahoma 1910, ยง 3769) reads as follows:
"3769. Corporation to give letter to employee leaving service. Whenever any employee of any public service corporation, or of a contractor, who works for such
corporation, doing business in this State, shall be discharged or voluntarily quits the service of such employer,
it shall be the duty of the superintendent or manager, or
contractor, upon request of such employee, to issue to
such employee a letter setting forth the nature of the
service rendered by such employee to such corporation or
contractor and the duration thereof, and truly stating the
cause for which such employee was discharged from or
quit such service; and, if any such superintendent, manager or contractor shall fail or refuse to issue such letter
to such employee, when so requested, or shall wilfully or
negligently refuse or fail to state the facts correctly, such
superintendent, manager or contractor shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars and not more than five hundred dollars, and by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not less
than one month and not exceeding one year: Provided,
that such letter shall be written, in its entirety, upon a
plain sheet of white paper to be selected by such employee.

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. PERRY.
548.

553

Opinion of the Court.

No printed blank shall be used, and if such ietter be written
upon a typewriter, it shall be signed with pen and black
ink and immediately beneath such signature shall be affixed the official stamp, or seal, of said superintendent,
manager or other officer of such corporation or contractor, in an upright position. There shall be no figures,
words or letters used, upon such piece of paper, except
such as are plainly essential, either in the date line, address, the body of the letter or the signature and seal or
stamp thereafter, and no such letter shall have any picture, imprint, character, design, device, impression or
mark, either in the body thereof or upon the face or back
thereof, and any person of whom such letter is required
who fails to comply with the foregoing requirements
shall be liable to the penalties above prescribed."
The Supreme Court (75 Okla. 31), after stating, on
familiar grounds, that the legislature itself was the judge
of the conditions which warranted legislative enactments,
and laws were only to be set aside when they involved
such palpable abuse of power and lack of reasonableness
to accomplish a lawful end that they might be said to be
merely arbitrary and capricious, and hence out of place
in a government of laws and not of men, went on to say:
"Whether or not the custom still prevails, it appears
that at one time it was the rule among railway companies
and other corporations to keep a list of employees who
were discharged or left the service and to furnish such
list to other railway companies and employers. Any
reason which might be agreed among employers was
sufficient for 'blacklisting' employees, thereby possibly
preventing their again securing employment in their accustomed occupation or trade. It was this abuse, among
other things, which caused the legislatures of various
States to enact laws declaring blacklisting unlawful, and
requiring corporations to give a letter to employees discharged or leaving the service, setting forth the reasons

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

for the discharge of the employee or of his leaving the
service and the nature of the service rendered by the employee. .
[p. 32] The idea of requiring employers to give employees leaving their service a letter showing the character of work performed while in their service
is not a new one. The common law recognized a moral
obligation resting upon the employers to give a 'character' to servants leaving the employment Of their masters, but no legal obligation of this nature existed until
laws touching these matters were enacted. . .
[p. 33] There is nothing in the law contested which
attempts to prevent a corporation from hiring whomsoever it pleases, or from discharging its employees when it
sees fit. Neither is there anything in the law which requires a corporation to give a letter of recommendation
to employees discharged or leaving its service. All that
is required is a statement of the employer showing the
character of services rendered by the employee and the
reason for his leaving the service of his employer. It is
a certificate which, when the facts are favorable to the
employee, may assist him in securing other work along the
line of his trade, and is a certificate to which he feels that
in justice he is entitled. . . . There is nothing unusual or revolutionary in requiring the employer to give
a certificate to the employee leaving his service showing
the time he has been employed and the character of service
rendered. . . . The employee who perhaps has devoted years of his life to a particular trade, when relinquishing employment, is without evidence to present in
another locality or to another employer unless he has some
certificate showing the term and character of his previous
employment."
The court proceeded to say that the legislation was a
warranted and lawful exercise of the police power of the
State, that the contention that it involved a private and
not a public matter, in that only the individual employee
and the individual employer were concerned, was a pure

CHICAGO, R. I. & PAC. RY. v. PERRY.
548.

555

Opinion of the Court.

assumption that failed to recognize existing conditions;
that the welfare of employees affected that of entire communities and the whole public. The decision of the Supreme Court of Missouri in Cheek v. PrudentialInsurance
Co., 192 S. W. 387, 392, affirmed this day in our No. 149,
ante,530, was cited with approval and the statute attacked
held not to deny to defendant due process of law nor
to constitute an illegal infringement upon the right of
contract.
The contention that the statute was a denial and abridgment of the right of free speech was overruled upon the
ground that the right did not exist under the state constitution in the absolute form in which it was asserted.
The decisions by the supreme courts of Georgia, Kansas
and Texas in Wallace v. Georgia,C. & N. Ry. Co., 94 Ga.
732; Atchison, etc. Ry. Co. v. Brown, 80 Kans. 312; and
St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Griffin, 106 Tex. 477,
were disapproved.
Except for the particular requirements contained in the
proviso, the statute here in question does not differ substantially from the Missouri statute this day sustained in
PrudentialInsurance Co. v. Cheek, ante, 530, and may be
sustained as against the contention that it is inconsistent
with the guaranty of "due process of law" for the reasons
set forth in the opinion in that case.
The proviso requires that the service letter shall be
written entirely upon a plain sheet of white paper to be
selected by the employee, no printed blank to be used
and the letter if written upon typewriter to be signed
with pen and black ink, and immediately beneath the
signature an official stamp or seal to be affixed in an upright position. No figures, words or letters to be used,
except such as are plainly essential, either in the date
line, the address, the body of the letter, or the signature
and seal or stamp; and no picture, imprint, character, design, device, impression or mark to be either in the body
or upon the face or back of the letter. Manifestly these

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Dissent.

259 U. S.

provisions are designed to insure the authenticity of the
document, to prevent fabrication and alteration, and to
make sure that it shall not only be fair and plain upon its
face but shall exclude any cryptic meaning. They are
contrived to prevent the -purpose of the act from being
set at naught by the giving of fraudulent service letters,
which while bearing one meaning to the employee might
bear another and very different one to the prospective
employer to whom they might be presented. The act
being valid in its main purpose, these provisions intended
to carry it into effect, must be sustained. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U. S. 549,
570; Second Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 52.
The contention that the Service Letter Law denies to
plaintiff in error the equal protection of the laws is rested
upon the fact that it is made to apply to public service
corporations (and contractors working for them), to the
exclusion of other corporations, individuals, and partnerships said to employ labor under similar circumstances.
This is described as arbitrary classification. We are not
advised of the precise reasons why the legislature chose
to put the policy of this statute into effect as to public
service corporations, without going further; nor is it
worth while to inquire. It may have been that the public
had a greater interest in the personnel of the public service corporations, or that the legislature deemed it expedient to begin with them as an experiment-or any one'of
a number of other reasons. It was peculiarly a matter
for the legislature to decide, and not the least substantial
ground is present for believing they acted arbitrarily.
We feel safe in relying upon the general presumption that
they "knew what they were about." Middleton v. Texas
Power & Light Co., 249 U. S. 152, 157-158, and cases
cited.
Judgment affirmed.
THE

CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE VAw DEVANTER
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS dissent.

and

