80

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for the Government.

259 U. S.

GROGAN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE

FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN, ET
AL. v. HIRAM WALKER & SONS, LTD.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.

ANCHOR LINE (HENDERSON BROTHERS), LTD.
v. ALDRIDGE, COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS FOR
THE PORT OF NEW YORK.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 615, 639. Argued April 19, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.
The transportation in bond from Canada through the United States
of whisky intended as a beverage, destined to a foreign country,
and transshipment of whisky from one British ship to another in
a port of the United States, are forbidden by the Eighteenth Amendment and the National Prohibition Act, which, in this regard,
supersede the provisions of Rev. Stats., § 3005, as amended, and
Art. XXIX of the Treaty with Great Britain of May 8, 1871, (if
it was not previously abrogated), authorizing transit of foreign
merchandise through this country without payment of duty.

P. 88.
275 Fed. 373, (No. 615), reversed.
No. 639, affirmed.

APPEALS from decrees of the District Court, the first
granting, and the second refusing, an injunction, in suits
to prevent interference with transportation and transship-

ment of whisky.
Mr. Assistant to the Attorney General Goff, with whom
Mr. Abram F. Myers, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellants in No. 615 and
appellee in: No. 639.
The Eighteenth Amendment and the Prohibition Act
apply to and prohibit the transshipment of intoxicating
liquors for beverage purposes in or through the United
States.

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

Argument for the Government.

While the ultimate object is the prevention of the
use, the immediate purpose is the destruction of all traffic
in or dealing with the interdicted commodities.
This follows from the language employed. Neither
the amendment nor the act in terms forbids the use of
intoxicating liquors; they are concerned merely with the
incidents of ownership, such as the manufacture, sale,
transportation, possession, etc. Street v. Lincoln Safe
Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88, 95.
The reason for this is that a more effective method of
eradicating the evil of use is by preventing the means by
which it comes into being, than by direct inhibition on
the use.
The amendment and the act clearly were intended to
prohibit the possession or transportation of liquor for
beverage purposes, whether for consumption within the
United States or without. It is impossible to understand
why the proviso exempting liquor in transit through the
Panama Canal was made in § 20, Title III, while no similar clause was added to § 3, Title II, if Congress intended
to exempt from the latter the transshipment of liquors.
Again, both the amendment and the act expressly prohibit the exportation of intoxicating liquors from the
United States. Such prohibition is inconsistent with an
intention to restrict their application to liquors intended
for consumption in the United States. When the act was
passed there were stored in bonded warehouses many millions of gallons of distilled spirits manufactured here
strictly in accordance with law. Congress in forbidding
the exportation-of this legally acquired liquor could have
been influenced only by apprehension of inevitable losses
and diversions to unlawful uses attendant upon the transportation to seaboard.
The proceedings in Congress evidence the legislative
intention to prohibit all possession and all transportation

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellee in No. 615.

259 U. S.

except as specifically authorized. 58 Cong. Rec. 2449;
Sen. Rep. 151; Title II, § 3. The transshipment or "in
transit" conveyance of intoxicating liquor necessarily
involves its "possession" as well as its "transportation."
United States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373, and Street v.
Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88, distinguished.
Unlike American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
U. S. 347, there is involved in the present cases no attempt
to apply the laws of the United States to acts committed
in a foreign country. Cf. StrathearnS. S. Co. v. Dillon,
252 U. S. 348.
The Prohibition Act, in its application to the transshipment of intoxicating liquor for beverage purposes, is
constitutional. Congress in legislating for the enforcement of the amendment may provide all means reasonably necessary effectively to suppress the prohibited acts.
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 421, 423; Powell
v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685; Otis v. Parker, 187
U. S. 606, 608, 609; Public ClearingHouse v. Coyne, 194
U. S. 497; Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192,
201; Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S. 264. And because of
their noxious qualities all traffic in or dealing with intoxicating liquor may be absolutely suppressed. Crane v.
Campbell, 245 U. S. 304, 307, 308.
Plaintiffs have not by proper allegations brought themselves within Art. XXIX of the Treaty with Great Britain
of 1871; but in any event that article has been abrogated.
Section 3005, Rev. Stats., conferred no affirmative
rights with respect to the transshipment of merchandise.
Assuming that it did, it was superseded by the Prohibition
Act so far as shipments of liquor are concerned.
Mr. Alfred Lucking for appellee in No. 615.
The bill alleges a case under the Treaty with Great
Britain of 1871. Article XXIX of that treaty is still
in full force.

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

Argument for Appellee in No. 615.

There is in the National Prohibition Act no express
repeal of Rev. Stats., § 3005; nor has there been a repeal
of that section by implication, so far as intoxicating liquors are concerned. There is no inconsistency between
§ 3005, permitting transshipments through the United
States from one foreign country to another, and the National Prohibition Act, which aims to prevent the "manufacture and sale and in part the use of intoxicating beverages within the United States. Both may stand and be
enforced. Repeals by implication are not favored.
No doubt Congress may pass a law breaking down this
treaty, pro tanto, and withdrawing the rights which have
so long obtained under it; but treaty rights should be
regarded as inviolable and not be held to be impaired by
subsequent legislation unless the intention of Congress is
perfectly clear. Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U. S.
540, 549; Frost v. Wenie, 157 U. S. 59; United States v.
Gue Lim, 176 U. S. 464; United States v. Lee Yen Tai,
185 U. S. 221; Johnson v. Browne, 205 U. S. 321.
The purpose of the Eighteenth Amendnent and the
Prohibition Act being to prohibit the use as a beverage
within the United States, the prevention of shipping
through in bond, duly sealed up and beyond the possibility of being used in the United States, is not within
the spirit or purpose of either the amendment or the act.
United States v. Palmer,3 Wheat. 610; American Banana
Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347.
Not being within the spirit or purpose of the act, the
act will not be construed to include the case. Fau, v.
Marsteller, 2 Cr. 10; Taylor v. United States, 207 U. S.

120; Holy -Trinity 6hurch v. United States, 143 U. S.
457, 459; American Security Co. v. District of Columbia.
224 U. S. 491, 495; Lau Ow Bew v. United States, 144
U. S. 47, 61; United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610.
Bringing into the United States for transshipment
through the United States to another foreign country is

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant in No. 639.

259 U. S.

not an "importation." 27 Ops. Atty. Gen. 440; McLean
v. Hager, 31 Fed. 602, 604, 605; The Conqueror, 166 U. S.
110, 115; United States v. 85 Head of Cattle, 205 Fed.
679; The Concord, 9 Cr. 387. The cases just cited are
also authority that the sending out of the same goods is
not an "exportation." See also Kidd v. Flagler,54 Fed.
369; Swan & Finch Co. v. United States, 190 U. S. 143;
17 Ops. Atty. Gen. 583. Nor is transportation through
the United States from one foreign country to another a
"transportation within" the United States. United
States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373; Street v. Lincoln Safe
Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88.
The practice in question is a separate and distinct act,
recognized by the statutes and in congressional and departmental proceedings since 1866, as "conveyance in
transit" or "transit in bond." Counsel for the Government contend that all "possession " is forbidden by § 3
of the act, and hence this practice is banned. But this is
not so. Under the "conveyance in transit" practice, the
possession is constructively and actually the possession of
the United States, through its customs officers and its
bonded carriers. U. S. Comp. Stats., 1916, §§ 5695, 56985700; Seeberger v. Schweyer, 153 U. S. 612, 613; Hartranft
v. Oliver, 125 U. S. 528, 530; Harrisv. Dennie, 3 Pet. 303,
304; Treasury Regulations, 1915, Art. 695.
The provision expressly excepting transportation
through the Panama Canal has no application here. It is
not connected with or a part of the sections now beifig
interpreted. The rule "expressio unius" is only an aid
to discovering the legislative intent when not otherwise
manifest. It is never hard and fast. United States v.
Barnes, 222 U. S. 518, 519; Dwight v. American Co., 263
Fed. 318; 36 Cyc. 1122.
Mr. Lucius H. Beers, with whom Mr. FranklinB. Lord
and Mr. Allen Evarts Foster were on the brief, for appellant in No. 639.

GROGAN .v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

Argument for Appellant in No. 639.

The Eighteenth Amendment and the National Prohibition Act do not purport to apply to the use of intoxicating
liquor outside of the United States. It expressly appears
from the amendment that it is to prevent the use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage only within the United
States and territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
An intention ought not to be attributed to Congress to
interfere with the use of liquor as a beverage outside of
United States territory. American Banana Co.v. United
Fruit Co., 213 U. S.347; Milliken v. Pratt,125 Mass. 374.
Where Congress has intended to prevent the transshipment in American ports of merchandise moving from one
foreign country to another, it has expressly provided to
that effect.
A thing may be within the letter of the statute and yet
not within the statute because not within its spirit nor
within the intention of its makers. Holy Trinity Church
v. United States, 143 U. S.457, 458, 459; Lau Ow Bew v.
United States, 144 U. S.47, 61; Taylor v. United States,
207 U. S.120.
The transshipment here involved is not "transportation" within the prohibition of the amendment or of the
act. United States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373; Street v.
Lincoln Safe Deposit Co.,£254 U. S.88. Nor is it "importation" or "exportgtion," as these words have heretofore
been defined by the federal courts. Swan & Finch Co. v.
United States, 190 U. S.143, 144; Flaglerv. Kidd, 78 Fed.
341, 344; United States v. 85 Head of Cattle, 205 Fed.
679, 681; The Concord, 9 Cr. 387, 388; 27 Ops. Atty.
Gen. 440.
Even if it could be held that the transshipment here
involved amounts legally to "importation " or "exportation," such transshipment does not constitute "importation" or "exportation" within the prohibition of the
amendment or of the act. The Federal Government was
seeking to prevent the use of alcoholic beverages by per-

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Appellant in No. 639.

259 U. S.

sons subject to its jurisdiction. It is well known that
this use of alcoholic beverages has been opposed partly on
economic grounds, but also on moral grounds; and it
would have put the United States in an unfortunate
moral position if the amendment and act had still left it
possible for Americans to ship to other countries beverages, the use of which was considered immoral and uneconomic in the United States. And it is therefore not
surprising that the framers of the amendment and of the
act made use of the words "exportation" and "export"
so as to put the United States in a proper moral position
in this regard.
The inherent character of this merchandise does not
require its exclusion and Congress has provided that liquor may be imported for medicinal and other nonbeverage
purposes.
A special federal statute has long existed permitting the
transshipment in our ports of merchandise destined for a
foreign country, and a general statute such as the Prohibition Act, does not repeal such a special statute "unless the repeal be expressed or the implication to that end
be irresistible." Rev. Stats., § 3005. Ex parte United
States, 226 U. S. 420; Washingtonv. Miller, 235 U. S. 422.
It is inherently improbable that Congress can have
intended to prohibit these transshipments when it framed
the Prohibition Act. These transshipments are not our
commerce; our interference with them is an interference
with the commerce of other nations; and we have every
reason to assume that this interference will be resented
and might well lead to action by foreign countries which
would seriously affect American exports.
If the Prohibition Act be construed as prohibiting
transshipments of the kind here involved, it is unconstitutional. It cannot be sustained under the commerce
clause. Trade-Mark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, 96. A statute
enacted pursuant to a constitutional amendment which

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

Opinion of the Court.

authorizes Congress to enact laws for the enforcement of
the rights secured by such amendment, is void if it is
broader than the amendment which it is designed to enforce. IUnited States v. Reese, 92 U. S. 214; Karem v.
United States, 121 Fed. 250. A construction prohibiting
these transshipments ought, therefore, to be avoided.
Laws of Congress are always to be construed to conform
to the provisions of a treaty, if possible to do so without
violence to their language. Article XXIX of the Treaty
of 1871 with Great Britain, providing for the transshipment of merchandise without the payment of duties, was
not repealed in 1883, and is still in force. United States
v. 43 Gallons of Whiskey, 108 U. S. 491, 496; Lem Moon
Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 539, 549.
MR. JusTice. HOLMEs delivered the- opinion of the
court.
These cases raise the question whether the Constitution
and the Volstead Act prohibit the transportation of intoxicating liquors from a foreign port through some part
of the United States to another foreign port. The first
is a bill by a corporation of Canada against the Collector
of Customs and the Collector of Internal Revenue for
the Eastern District of Michigan to prevent their carrying out the orders of the Treasury Department to stop
the plaintiffs from shipping whiskey intended as a beverage from Canada by way of Detroit in bond through
the United States to Mexico, Central or South America.
The irreparable injury that will be done to the plaintiff's
business is fully shown, and the decision depends on the
single question stated above. An injunction was granted
by the District Court. 275 Fed. 373. The second case
is to prevent similar interference with the transshipment
of whiskey from one British ship to another in the harbor
of New York. Upon a consideration of the same general questions an injunction was refused by the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

Court for the Southern District of New York, October
21, 1921.
The plaintiffs rely upon Rev. Stats., § 3005, as amended,
and Article XXIX of the treaty, concluded with Great
Britain on May 8, 1871, 17 Stat. 863. By the former,
an exemption in a revenue act, merchandise arriving at
any port of the United States destined for any foreign
country may be entered at the custom house and conveyed
in transit through the territory of the United States,
without the payment of duties, under such regulations as
to examination and transportation as the Secretary of
the Treasury may prescribe. See United States v. Y uginovich, 256 U. S. 450. By the treaty, for the term of
years mentioned in Article XXXIII merchandise arriving
at the ports of New York, Boston and Portland, and other
ports specially designated by the President, and destined
for British possessions in North America, may be entered
at the customs house and may be conveyed in transit
without the payment of duties through the territory of
the United States under such rules, &c., as the Government of the United States may prescribe; and under like
rules, &c., from such possessions through the territory
of the United States for export from the said ports of the
United States. President Cleveland and President Harrison in messages to Congress expressed the opinion that
Article XXIX had been abrogated. In view of the parallelism between the statute and the treaty the question
seems of no importance except so far as the existence of
the treaty might be supposed to intensify the reasons
for construing later legislation as not overruling it. But
makeweights of that sort are not enough to affect the
result here.
On the other side is the Eighteenth Amendment forbidding "the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the importation thereof into,
or the exportation thereof from the United States and all

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

Opinion of the Court.

territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage
purposes." There is also the National Prohibition Act
of October 28, 1919, c. 85, Title II, § 3, 41 Stat. 305, 308,
which provides that, except as therein authorized, after
the Eighteenth Amendment goes into effect no person
shall manufacture, sell, barter, transport, import, export,
deliver, furnish or possess any intoxicating liquor. All
the provisions of the act are to be liberally construed to
the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage
may be prevented.
The routine arguments are pressed that this country
does not undertake to regulate the habits of people elsewhere and that the references to beverage purposes and
use as a beverage show that it was not attempting to do
so; that it has no interest in meddling with transportation
across its territory if leakage in transit is prevented, as
it has been; that the repeal of statutes and a fortiori of
treaties by implication is not to be favored; and that even
if the letter of a law seems to have that effect a thing
may be within the letter yet not within the law when it
has been construed. We appreciate all this, but are of
opinion that the letter is too strong in this case.
The Eighteenth Amendment meant a great revolution
in the policy of this. country, and presumably and obviously meant to upset a good many things on as well as
off the statute book. It did not confine itself in any meticulous way to the use of intoxicants in this country.
It forbade export for beverage purposes elsewhere. True
this discouraged production here, but that was forbidden
already, and the provision applied to liquors already lawfully made. See Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries &
Warehouse Co., 251 U. S. 146, 151, n. 1. It is obvious
that those whose wishes and opinions were embodied in
the Amendment meant to stop the whole business. They
did not want intoxicating liquor in the United States and
reasonably may have thought that if they let it in some

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
McKENNA, DAY

and CLAmm, JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

of it was likely to stay. When, therefore, the Amendment forbids not only importation into and exportation
from the United States but transportation within it, the
natural meaning of the words expresses an altogether
probable intent. The Prohibition Act only fortifies in
this respect the interpretation of the Amendment itself.
The manufacture, possession, sale and transportation of
spirits and wine for other than beverage purposes are provided for in the act, but there is no provision for transshipment or carriage across the country from without.
When Congress was ready to permit such a transit for
special reasons, in the Canal Zone, it permitted it in express words. Title III, § 20, 41 Stat. 322.
Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88, was
decided on the ground that the liquors were in the strictest
sense in the possession of the owner (254 U. S. 92, 93, see
Union Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198 U. S. 530, 537), and that
to move them from the warehouse to the dwelling was no
more transportation in the sense of the statute than to
take them from the cellar to the dining room; whereas in
Corneli v. Moore, 257 U. S. 491, they were not in the owner's possession and required delivery and transportation
to become so. In United States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373,
the only point. was that transportation through a State
was not transportatioii into it within the meaning of the
statute before the court. None of these cases has any
bearing upon the question here. We are of opinion that
the decree in Grogan v. Hirapn Walker & Sons, Ltd.,
should be reversed, and the decree in The Anchor Line,
Ltd., v. Aldridge, affirmed.
615. Decree reversed.
639. Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTIczi McKENNA, with whom concurred MR.
JusTIcE DAY and MR. JusTICE CLARKE, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the opinion and judgment of
the court.

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

MCIKENNA, DAY

and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

The first case presents the right to transport intoxicating liquor in bond through the United States in accordance with certain rights given by the Revised Statutes
and a treaty with Great Britain, notwithstanding the
Eighteenth Amendment of the Constitution and its auxiliary legislation, the Volstead Act.
The second case concerns the transshipment of like
liquor from one British ship to another British ship in
New York harbor. In the first case it was decided that the
right of transportation still exists. 275 Fed. 373. In the
second case a prohibitive effect was ascribed to the
Amendment and the legislation.
The factors of decision are the policies constituted by
the amendment to the Constitution, the statute enacted
in aid of it, other statutes preceding it, and a treaty of
the United States with Great Britain. And their relation
is to be determined, and range. What shall be the test
of determination? The words of the instruments? These,
indeed, may make individuality, and express purposes,
but if the purposes collide, which must give way? And
upon what considerations? It is the view of the court
that the purposes do collide and the court assigns prevailing force to the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act-the reform they instituted having annulled
§ 3005 of the Revised Statutes as amended, and Article
XXIX of the treaty with Great Britain, May 8, 1871.
I am unable to assent. The factors are not in antagonism but each has a definite purpose consistent with
the purpose of every other.
I consider first the Eighteenth Amendment. Its provision is that one year from the date of its ratification, the
manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating liquors
within, the importation thereof into, or the exportation
thereof from, the United States and all territory subject
to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage purposes, is prohibited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.

92

MCKENNA, DAY

and

CLARKE,JJ..

dissenting.

259 U.S.

It will be observed that the Amendaent provides
against the manufacture, sale and certain movements of
intoxicating liquors. Those movements are its transportation within, its importation into, and its exportation from
the United States. The last two may be put immediately
out of consideration. The liquor in the cases at bar,
neither in common nor legal sense, was an importation
into the United States or exportation from it.' Importation and exportation are constituted of something more
than ingress of the intoxicants, under bond, at one border
of the country and egress, under bond, at another border,
the purpose being for passage only through the country
and having as impalpable effect upon it as if the passage
were by airship. Still less, if I may suppose the impossible, is the transshipment of liquors in New York
harbor from one British ship to another under the supervision of revenue officers, the importation or exportation
of the liquors into or from the United States.
The other movement is a case of transportationwithin
the United States in the literal sense of the words, but this
court in Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co., 254 U. S. 88,
has limited its apparent universality by accommodating it
to conditions and prefxistent rights, and this against the
executive and reforming zeal of a public officer sustained
by the judgment of a District Court, thereby applying
the rule, denominated by Mr. Justice Brewer as "familiar," and variously illustrated by him, in Holy Trinity
Church v. United States, 143 U. S. 457, that a statute
should not be taken at its word against its spirit, and intention. The rule has had illustration since and this court
following it, and its sanction in common sense, declared
127

Ops. Atty. Gen. 440; McLean v. Hager, 31 Fed. 602; The

Conqueror, 166 U. S. 110, 115; United States v. 85 Head of Cattle,
205 Fed. 679; The Concord, 9 Cranch, 387; Swan & Finch Co. v.
United States, 190 U. S. 143.

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
SO.

McOKNNA, DAY

and CL mm, JJ., dissenting.

against the destructive revolution urged, based upon the
literal meaning of words. The court decided that it was
not "unlawful to have or possess" (the words of the Volstead Act) liquors, and that transportationthereof from
a room leased in a public warehouse, where they were
stored, to the dwelling house of the owner of them for consumption for himself and family was not adverse to the
act or to the Eighteenth Amendment. The decision was
only possible by rejecting the literal meaning of the words
unlawful" to have or possess" intoxicating liquors or the
"transportation" of them "within the United States"
and accommodating those words to the spirit and intention of their use.
In Corneliv. Moore, 257 U. S. 491, a distinction between
a room leased in a public warehouse and a public warehouse was made, and the transportationfrom the latter
was decided to be prohibited. In other words, it was
decided that liquor in a public warehouse was not in
possession of the owner of the liquor and that, therefore,
its removal from the warehouse was a transportation of
it within the United States from one place to another.
The intention of the word was satisfied and the case is
consistent with Street v. Lincoln Safe Deposit Co.
But in United States v. Gudger, 249 U. S. 373, it was
decided that the transportationof liquor through a State
was not transportationinto it, within the meaning of a
provision in the Post Office Appropriation Bill. To me
the case is decisive of those at bar.
With the suggestion of it and the other cases in our
minds, let us consider what meaning and purpose are to
be assigned to the Eighteenth Amendment and the Volstead Act. It is certainly the first sense of every law
that its field of operation is the country of its enactment.
American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213 U. S. 347.
And this is true of the Eighteenth Amendment and the
Volstead Act, and necessarily, they get their meaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
McKuNmA,

DAY and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

from the field and purpose of their operation-from the
conditions which exist in that field or are designed to be
established there. The transportation that they prohibit
is transportation within that field-that is, the United
States, and "for beverage purposes." The importance
of the purposes suggests the emphasis of italics, and the
Volstead Act is at pains to declare that it shall be construed "to the end that the use of intoxicating liquor as
a beverage may be prevented."
The transportation and the purposes are, therefore,
complements of each other and both must exist to fulfill
the declared prohibition. Neither exists in the cases at
bar-the transportation in neither is, in the sense of the
Amendment and act, "within" the United States "for
beverage purposes." In one it is through the United
States, in the other transshipment in a port of the United
States, and both under the direction and control of the
revenue officers of the United States and for use in
other countries than the United States. Not only, therefore, are the cases not within the prohibition of the
Eighteenth Amendment or the Volstead Act, but they are
directly within § 3005 of the Revised Statutes and the
treaty with Great Britain. In the view of the court, however, the section and the treaty have been extinguishedsuperseded by a world-wide reform that cannot tolerate
any aid by the United States to the offensive liquor.
"The Eighteenth Amendment," is the declaration,
"meant a great revolution in the policy of this country"
and did not timidly confine itself "to the use of intoxicants in this country." There is appeal in the declaration.
It presents the attractive spectacle of a people too animated for reform to hesitate to make it as broad as the
universe of humanity. One feels almost ashamed to
utter a doubt of such a noble and moral cosmopolitanism,
but the facts of the world must be adduced and what
they dictate. They are the best answer to magnified sen-

GROGAN v. WALKER & SONS.
80.

MCKENNA,

DAY and CLAnmm, JJ., dissenting.

timent. And the sentiment is magnified. The Amendment and the Volstead Act were not intended to direct
the practices of the world. Such comprehensive purpose
resides only in assertion and conjecture and rejects the
admonitory restraint of § 3005, the treaty with Great
Britain and the non-interfering deference that nations pay
to the practices of one another.
If such mission had been the purpose it would have
been eagerly avowed, not have been left to disputable inference. Zeal takes care to be explicit in purpose and it
cannot be supposed that § 3005 and the treaty were unknown and their relation-harmony or conflict-with the
new policy; and it must have been concluded that there
was harmony, not conflict. The section and the treaty
support the conclusion. The section permits all merchandise arriving at certain ports of the United States
and destined for places in the adjacent British provinces,
and arriving at certain ports and destined for places in
Mexico, to be entered at the custom-house and conveyed
in transit through the United States. In a sense, it has
its complement in § 3006 which gives to merchandise
of the United States the same facility of transportation
through the British provinces or the Republic of Mexico.
The treaty (Article XXIX) provides a reciprocation
of privileges. Merchandise arriving at ports in the
United States and destined for British possessions in
North America may be entered at the proper customhouse and conveyed in transit through the United States
without payment of duties. A like privilege is given
United States merchandise arriving at ports in the British
possessions for transit through those possessions.
In other words, the treaty is an exchange of trade advantages-advantages not necessary to the commerce of
either, but affording to that commerce a facility. And
yet, it is said, that it is the object of the Eighteenth
Amendment to take away that facility, and to take away

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
MCKENNA, DAY

and CL4ARx, JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

the transshipment of liquor in an American port from one
British ship to another. This is the only accomplishment! What estimate can be put upon it? It takes
away not a necessity of British commerce, as I have said,
but a convenience to it, in disregard of a concession recognized by law and by a treaty. And upon what prompting? Universal reform? If so why was the Panama
Canal given up as a convenience to the prohibited beverage and apparently with purposeful care? There is a
-perversion in one or the other of those actions that needs
to be accounted for. There seems to be a misunderstanding of their respective effects, an overlooking of their
antagonism, if the purpose of our legislation be a reversal
of things not only in the United States but elsewhere.
To deny the distribution of intoxicants by forbidding
them transit through the United States and affording
them distribution through the Panama Canal cannot both
be conducive to the world-wide reform which the court
considers was the mission instituted by the Eighteenth
Amendment and put in execution by the Volstead Act.
It is said, however, that regarding the United States
alone, the Amendment and the act have a practical concern. If liquor be admitted for transit, is the declaration,
some may stay for consumption. The apprehension is
serious--not of itself but because of its implication. It
presents the United States in an invidious light. Is it
possible that its sovereignty, and what it can command,
cannot protect a train of cars in transit from the Canadian
border to the Mexican border or the removal of liquors
from one ship to another from the stealthy invasions of
inordinate appetites or the daring cupidity of bootleggers?
But granting that the care of the Government may relax,
or its watchfulness may be evaded, is it possible that
such occasional occurrences, such petty pilferings, can so
determine the policy of the country as to justify the re-

SOUTH COVINGTON RY. CO. v. NEWPORT.

97

Syllabus.

80.

peal of an act of Congress, and violation or abrogation of
a treaty obligation, by implication?
I put my dissent upon the inherent improbability of
such intention-not because it takes a facility from intoxicating liquor but because of its evil and invidious
precedent, and this at a time when the nations of the
earth are assembling in leagues and conferences to assure one another that diplomacy is not deceit and that
there is a security in the declaration of treaties, not only
against material aggression but against infidelity to engagements when interest tempts or some purpose antagonizes. Indeed I may say there is a growing aspiration
that the time will come when nations will not do as they
please and bid their wills avouch it.
I think the judgment in No. 615 should be affirmed and
Ahat in No. 639 reversed.
SOUTH COVINGTON

& CINCINNATI

STREET

RAILWAY COMPANY, ET AL. v. CITY OF NEWPORT, KENTUCKY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 203.

Argued April 13, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

The bill alleged that the plaintiffs were corporations operating electric
street cars and distributing electric current under perpetual franchises in the city; that under superv4sion and direction of th icity
authorities they constructed a high tension wire to obtain necessary additional current from another company; that afterwards the
city council by resolution directed speedy removal of the wire,
declaring i't dangerous to life and property, contrary to the fact,
and that, unless restrained, the city would forcibly remove and
destroy it, thereby interfering with the operation of plaintiffs'
railway, lighting and power systems, and causing them irreparable
damage, in violation of their rights under the Contract Clause of
the Constitution and the due process clause of the Fourteenth

