COLLINS v. LOISEL.
304.

309

Syllabus.

when the passage is read in connection with other parts
of the findings, it seems clear that such was not the meaning of the court. There was, thus, no finding to the effect
that the undistributed profits, as distinguished from capital, were not used or employed in banking.

Affirmed.
COLLINS v. LOISEL, UNITED STATES MARSHAL
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 672.

Argued April 28, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. To warrant extradition (in this case to India under the treaties
with Great Britain) it "is not necessary that the name by which
the crime is described in the two countries be the same, nor that
the scope of the liability be coextensive, or, in other respects, the
same in each; it is enough if the particular act charged is criminal
in both jurisdictions. P. 311.
2. The Act of August 3, 1882, c. 378, § 5, 22 Stat. 216, repealing
Rev. Stats. § 5271" so far as inconsistent, admits as evidence in
extradition proceedings, warrants and other papers, and copies
thereof, as well as depositions, authenticated so as to authorize
their admission for similar purposes in courts of the foreign country, when such authentication is proven by the certificate of the
principal diplomatic or consular officer of the United States resident
in such country. P. 313.
3. In extradition for an offense committed at Bombay, India is the
"foreign country ", within the meaning of this statute, and the
papers may be certified by the Consul General of the United States
stationed at Calcutta, of whose identity and of whose status as our
principal diplomatic or consular officer resident in that country
the court takes judicial notice. P. 314.
4. Evidence that the accused obtained valuable personal property by
knowingly false representatibns of his wealth and standing, of his
authority to draw the draft given the vendor and of the identity
and financial standing of the drawee, held sufficient to show an
obtaining by false pretenses within the law of Louisiana as well
as a cheat at common law. P. 314.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

5. Under the Treaty of August 9, 1842, with Great Britain, providing
that extradition shall only be had on such evidence of criminality
as, according to the laws of the place where the person charged is
found, would justify his arrest and commitment for trial if the
offense had been committed there, and under the law of Louisiana,
allowing accused persons to present evidence in their own behalf
before the committing magistrate, a person arrested for extradition
is entitled to introduce evidence rebutting probable cause, but not
evidence in defense. P. 315.
6. The function of the committing magistrate is to determine whether
there is competent evidence sufficient to hold the accused for trial
and not whether it would suffice for a conviction. P. 315.
7. His conclusions as to relevancy of evidence are not reixaminable
in habeas corpus unless so clearly unjustified as to amount to
denial of the hearing prescribed by law. P. 317.
8. The phrase "such evidence of criminality" in the Treaty of 1842,
supra, refers to sufficiency of evidence in elements essential to a
conviction, not to the character of specific instruments of evidence
or to rules governing admissibility. P. 317.
9. The procedural law of the State cannot entitle the prisoner to
introduce evidence made irrelevant by the treaty. P. 317.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the District Court in

habeas corpus, remanding the appellant to the custody of
the marshal under a commitment issued in an extradition
proceeding.
Mr. Guion Miller and Mr. Edgar Allen Poe, with whom
Mr. J. Zach Spearing and Mr. J. Kemp Bartlett were on

the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Robert H. Marr for appellee.
Mn. JusTicE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is the second appeal by .Collins in this case. The
first Was dismissed in Collins v. Miller, 252 U. S. 364, for
want of jurisdiction. There the earlier proceedings and
the nature of the controversy are fully set forth. After our
decision the case was again heard by the District Court,

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
309.

311

Opinion of the Court.

on the same record and the same evidence; and on October 25, 1921, judgment was entered. By that judgment
the writ of habeas corpus was granted, so far as the commitment was based on charges of obtaining property by
false pretenses from Pohoomull Brothers and from Ganeshi Lall & Sons; and as to these commitments the court
discharged Collins. But as to the commitment based on
the charge of obtaining property by false pretenses from
Mahomed All Zaimal Ali Raza, the court dismissed the
application for habeas corpus and remanded Collins to
the custody of Loisel, the marshal. The British Consul
General acquiesced in this judgment. Collins appealed
from so much thereof as recommitted him to the custody
of the marshal. As the judgment below was final and disposed of the whole case, we now have jurisdiction. It is
insisted, on several grounds, that the committing magistrate was without jurisdiction, and that consequently the
appellant should have been discharged.
First. Collins contends that the affidavit of the British
Consul General does not charge an extraditable offense.
The argument is that the affidavit charges cheating
merely; that cheating is not among the offenses enumerated in the extradition treaties; that cheating is a different offense from obtaining property under false pretenses which is expressly named in the Treaty of December 13, 1900, 32 Stat. 1864; that to convict of cheating it
is sufficient to prove a promise of future performance
which the promisor does not intend to perform, while to
convict of obtaining property by false pretense it is essential that there be a false representation of a state of things
past or present. See State v. Colly, 39 La. Ann. 841. It
is true that an offense is extraditable only if the acts
charged are criminal by the laws of both countries. It is
also true that the charge made in the court of India rests
upon § 420 of its Penal Code, which declares: "Whoever
cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ceived to deliver any property to any person
. .
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine,"' whereas § 813 of the Revised
Statutes of Louisiana declares: "Whoever, by any false
pretence, shall obtain, or aid and assist another in obtaining, from any person, money or any property, with intent to defraud him of the same, shall, on conviction, be
punished by imprisonment at hard labor or otherwise,
not exceeding twelve months." But the affidavit of the
British Consul General recites that Collins stands charged
in the Chief Presidency Magistrate's Court with having
feloniously obtained the pearl button by false pretenses:
and the certificate of the Secretary to the Government of
India, which accompanies the papers on which Collins'
surrender is sought, describes the offense with which he is
there charged as "the crime of obtaining valuable property by false pretenses." The law does not require that
the name by which the crime is described in the two countries shall be the same; nor that the scope of the liability
shall be coextensive, or, in other respects, the same in the
two countries. It is enough if the particular act charged
is criminal in both jurisdictions. This was held with reference to different crimes involving false statements in
Wright v. Henkel, 190 U. S. 40, 58; Kelly v. Griffin, 241
U. S. 6, 14; Benson v. McMahon, 127 U. S. 457, 465; and
Greene v. tnited'States,154 Fed. 401. Compare Ex parte
Piot, 15 Cox C. C. 208. The offense charged was, therefore, clearly extraditable.
Second. Collins contends that the evidence introduced
was wholly inadmissible. That particularly objected to

I Imprisonment

under the Indian Penal Code is either "simple" or
"rigorous "--the latter with hard labor. Indian Penal Code, § 53.
"Whoever does anything with the intention of causing wrongful gain
to one person, or wrongful loss to another person, is said to do that
thing 'dishonestly."' Indian Penal Code, § 24.

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
309.

313

Opinion of the Court.

on this ground is the warrant of arrest and copies of
prima facie proceedings in the Court of the Chief Presidency Magistrate, Bombay, which accompanied the affidavit of the British Consul General. The Consul General
for the United States in Calcutta had certified that these
papers proposed to be used upon an application for the
extradition of Collins "charged with the crime of obtaining valuable property by false pretenses alleged to have
been committed in Bombay" were "properly and legally
authenticated so as to entitle them to be received in evidence for similar purposes by the tribunals of British
India, as required by the Act of Congress- of August 3,
1882." That act, c. 378, § 5, 22 Stat. 215, 216, declares
that "depositions, warrants, and other papers, or the
copies thereof" so authenticated, shall be received and
admitted as evidence for all purposes on hearings of an
extradition case if they bear "the certificate of the principal diplomatic or consular officer of the United States
resident in such foreign country." One argument of Collins is that the admissibility of evidence is determined,
not by the above provision of the Act of 1882, but by
§ 5271 of the Revised Statutes, which provided only that
copies of foreign depositions shall be admitted when "attested upon the oath of the party producing them to be
true copies," and which did not provide for the admission
of "warrants or other papers"; and that, on these
grounds, copies both of the Indian documents and of certain London depositions should have been excluded; since
neither the Consul General at Calcutta, the Secretary of
the Embassy at London, nor the British Consul General
at New Orleans, could attest that the papers were true
copies. But § 6 of the Act of 1882 expressly provides for
the repeal of so much of § 5271 as is inconsistent with
earlier provisions of that act; and under § 5 thereof the
admissibility of papers is not so restricted. Another argument of Collins is that the Indian documents were not

314 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

properly authenticated because they were certified to by
the Consul General at Calcutta, and not by the Consul at
Bombay, where the offense charged is alleged to have been
committed. The "foreign country" here in question is
India, not Bombay; and we may, in this connection, take
judicial notice of the fact that the Consul General of the
United States who is stationed at Calcutta is the principal diplomatic or consular officer resident in that country
and who he is. Compare New York & Maryland Line R.
R. Co. v. Winans, 17 How. 30, 41; Keyser v. Hitz, 133
U. S. 138, 146. The papers were, therefore, properly
authenticated and were admissible. Compare In re Behrendt, 22 Fed. 699; In re Charleston,34 Fed. 531; In re
Orpen, 8.6 Fed. 760. •
Third. Collins contends that the evidence introduced
did not support the charge of obtaining property by false
pretenses. The papers introduced tended to prove that
Collins obtained the pearl button from the jewelers as a
result of his representing that he was a wealthy man;
that he was a partner in William Collins Sons & Company of Glasgow and London; that he was a colonel in
the Howe Battalion of the Royal Naval Division and was
then on six months' leave; that he had a right to draw on
Messrs. E. Curtice & Company, 8 Clarges Street, London,
the draft of £1700 which he gave the jewelers; :and that this
was a firm of bankers. The papers tended to prove also that
all these representations were false to Collins' knowledge.
It is clear that evidence to this effect, if competent and
believed, would justify a conviction not only for cheating,
but also of obtaining property under false pretenses.
State v. Tessier, 32 La. Ann. 1227; State v. Jordan, 34 La.
Ann. 1219; State v. Will, 49 La. Ann. 1337; State v. Seipel,
104 La. 67. The contention of Collins is that the evidence
established only a broken promise or, at most, commonlaw cheating. It was not the function of the committing
magistrate to determine whether Collins was guilty, but

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
309.

Opinion of the Court.

merely whether there was competent legal evidence which,
according to the law of Louisiana, would justify his apprehension and commitment for trial if the crime had been
committed in that State. Charltonv. Kelly, 229 U. S.447,
456. If there was such evidence this court has no power
to review his finding. Orneiasv. Ruiz, 161 U. S. 502, 508;
Terlinden v. Ames, 184 U. S. 270, 278; McNamara v.
Henkel, 226 U. S. 520. The papers tended to establish
more than a broken promise or common-law cheating;
and according to the law of Louisiana they furnished
" Such reasonable ground to suppose him guilty as to
make it proper that he should be tried." See Glucksman
v. Henkel, 221 U. S.508, 512.
Fourth. Finally Collins contends that the evidence of
criminality was not such as under the law of Louisiana
would have justified his apirehension and commitment
for trial if the crime or offense had been committed there.
The argument is that by the law of Louisiana a person
charged with having committed an offense is entitled to
make a voluntary declaration before the committing magistrate and also to present evidence in his own behalf
(Revised Statutes 1870, § 1010; Laws of 1886, Act No.
45); that this right to introduce such evidence is, therefore, secured to a prisoner by the treaty; I and that this
requirement as to evidence "of criminality was not complied with, because Collins was not permitted to introduce
evidence in his own behalf.
Collins was allowed to testify, and it was clearly the
purpose of the committing magistrate to permit him to
testify fully, to things which might have explained ambiguities or doubtful elements in. the prima facie case
I"Provided that this shall only be done upon such evidence of
criminality as, according to the laws of the place where the fugitive
or person so charged shall be found, would justify his apprehension
and commitment for trial, if the crime or offence had there been com-*
mitted." Treaty of August 9, 1842, Art. X, 8 $tat. 572, 576.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

made against him. In other words, he was permitted to
introduce evidence bearing ,lpon the issue of probable
cause. The evidence excluded related strictly to the defense. It is clear that the mere wrongful exclusion of
specific pieces of evidence, however important, does not
render the detention illegal. Charltonv. Kelly, 229 U. S.
447, 461. The function of the committing magistrate is
to determine whether there is competent evidence to justify holding the accused to await trial, and not to determine whether the evidence is sufficient to justify a conviction. Grin v. Shine, 187 U. S. 181, 197; Benson v. McMahon, 127 U. S. 457, 461; Ex parte Glaser, 176- Fed. 702,
704. In In re Wadge, 15 Fed. 864, 866, cited with approval in Charltonv. Kelly, supra, 461, the right to introduce evidence in defense was claimed; but Judge Brown
said: "If this were recognized as the legal right of the
accused in extradition proceedings, it would give him the
option of insisting upon a full hearing and trial of his case
here; and that might compel the demanding government
to produce all its evidence here, both direct and rebutting,
in order to meet the defense thus gathered from every
quarter. The result would be that the foreign government, though entitled by the terms of the treaty to the
extradition of the accused for the purpose of a trial where
the crime was committed, would be compelled to go into a
full trial on the merits in a foreign country, under all the'
disadvantages of such a situation, and could not obtain
extradition until after it had procured a conviction of the
accused upon a full and substantial trial here. This would
be in plain contravention of the intent and meaning of the
extradition treaties." The distinction between evidence
properly admitted in behalf of the defendant and that improperly admitted is drawn in Charlton v. Kelly, supra,
between evidence rebutting probable cause and evidence
in defense. The court there said, "To have witnesses produced to contradict the testimony for the prosecution is

COLLINS v. LOISEL.
309.

Opinion of the Court.

obviously a very different thing from hearing witnesses for
the purpose of explaining matters referred to by the witnesses for the Government." And in that case evidence of
insanity was declared inadmissible as going to defense and
not to probable cause. Whether evidence offered on an
issue before the committing magistrate is relevant is a
matter which the law leaves to his determination, unless
his action is so clearly unjustified as to amount to a denial
of the hearing prescribed by law.
The phrase "such evidence of criminality" as used in
the treaty refers to the scope of the evidence or its sufficiency to block out those elements essential to a conviction. It does not refer to the character of specific instruments of evidence or to the rules governing admissibility.
Thus, unsworn statements of absent witnesses may be
acted upon by the committing magistrate, although they
could not have been received by him under the law of the
State on a preliminary examination. Elias v. Ramirez,
215 U. S. 398; Rice v. Ames, 180 U. S.371. And whether
there is a variance between the evidence and the complaint is to be decided by the general law and not by that
of the State. Glucksman v. Henkel, 221 U. S. 508, 513.
Here the evidence introduced was clearly sufficient to
block out those elements essential to a conviction under
the laws of Louisiana of the crime of obtaining property
by false pretenses. The law of Louisiana could not, and
does not attempt to, require more. It is true that the procedure to be followed in hearings on commitment is determined by the law of the State in which they are held.
In re Farez, 7 Blatchf. 345, Fed. Cas. No. 4645; In re
Wadge, supra; In re Kelley, 25 Fed. 268; In re Ezeta, 62
Fed. 972, 981. But no procedural rule of a State could
give to the prisoner a right to introduce evidence made
irrelevant by a treaty.
Affirmed.
-

