LIPKE v. LEDERER.
Counsel for Parties.

LIPKE v. LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL
REVENUE FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 596. Argued March 21, 22, 1922.-Decided June 5, 1922.
1. In a suit to restrain revenue officers from seizure of property
under color of an act of Congress, a substantial claim that the act,
as construed and sought to be applied by them, is unconstitutional,
will support a direct writ of error from this court to the District
Court. P. 560.
2. The so-called taxes retained in force and imposed by § 35 of the
National Prohibition Act upon dealing in liquor prohibited and
made criminal by the act, are in reality a penalty, and cannot be
enforced by distraint of the offender's property without first
affording him a due opportunity for a constitutional hearing.
P. 561.
3. Revised Statutes, § 3224, forbidding suits to restrain assessment
or collection of any tax, and the statutory remedy of payment and
action to recover, are inapplicable to such a case; and the person
affected is entitled to relief by injunction, for want of an adequate
legal remedy. P. 562.
274 Fed. 493, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing a
bill to restrain the collection by distress, sale or otherwise,
of amounts assessed as taxes and penalties under the
National Prohibition Act.

Mr. Lincoln L. Eyre, with whom Mr. Francis J.
Maneely and Mr. Otto A. Schlobohm were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt, Assistant Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck and Mr.
Harvey B. Cox were on the brief, for appellee.

558

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Relying upon Ketterer v. Lederer, 269 Fed. 153, the
court below dismissed the bill, upon motion, for want of
equity, 274 Fed. 493, and the cause is here by direct
appeal.
The bill alleges:
That complainant Lipke paid all internal revenue taxes
required by the laws of the United States for the year
ending June 30, 1920; and he holds a retail liquor license
issued by the Court of Quarter Sessions, County of Philadelphia, for the year ending May 31, 1921. On December
29, 1920, he was arrested for selling liquor contrary to
the National Prohibition Act and gave bail to appear and
answer in the United States District Court. This prosecution is still pending.
That on March 18, 1921, complainant received a written
communication from the defendant which stated: "Notice
is hereby given that there has been assessed against you
the amount of tax stated on this notice. Demand is
hereby made for the immediate payment of said tax. If
payment is not made within 10 days after date of this
notice, a penalty of 5 per cent. of the amount of tax due
will be added, plus interest at the rate of 1 per cent. per
month until paid." The total assessment amounted to
$557.29, made up of three items indicated thus--" R. L.
D. Sec. 35 D. T. 45.83; 11 Mos. 21 3244 P. 11.46; S. F.
P. A. 1-26-21 S. P. 500.00.1'
That on March 31st he received a second written demand for $557.29 with penalty of 5 per cent. for failure to
pay within prescribed time. And he was advised "If payment of tax and penalty is not received within 10 days,
collection of the same, with any accrued interests thereon
and costs, shall be made by seizure and sale of property."
That "In addition to the notice printed on said socalled tax bills, that the property of your orator will be

LIPKE v. LEDERER.
557.

Opinion of the Court.

seized and sold for non-payment, your orator has been informed by officials of the defendant department that after
the expiration of ten days from the rendition of said
second notices, his property will be seized and sold by
warrant of distress. . . . He is now subject, at any
moment to have the defendant, as Collector of Internal
Revenue, seize his property, real or personal, for the nonpayment of said fines and penalties and that he is wholly
without adequate remedy at law to prevent such seizure
of his property."
That § 3244 Rev. Stats.,1 has no application; § 35 of
the Prohibition Act confers no such power as the Collector
seeks to exercise; and he is undertaking to punish complainant by fine and penalty for an alleged criminal offense
without hearing, information, indictment or trial by jury,
contrary to the Federal Constitution. If the latter section has the meaning ascribed to it by the defendant, it
is unconstitutional.
The prayer is for an injunction restraining the defendant from proceeding to collect the sum demanded by warrant of seizure, distress or sale or otherwise, and requiring
a cancellation of the so-called "tax bills."
Appellant maintains that the demand upon him was
not for taxes, but for a penalty for an alleged criminal
act; that the method adopted for enforcing this penalty
is contrary to the Federal Constitution; and that if construed as appellee insists it should be, § 35 is unconstitutional.
Appellee maintains that th4 9 ,use involves only questions of construction and, therefore, the appeal should be
1Sec.

3244. Special taxes are imposed as follows:

Fourth. Retail dealers in liquors shall pay twenty-five dollars.
Every person who sells, or offers for sale foreign or domestic distilled spirits or wines, in less quantities than five wine gallons at the
same time, shal be regarded as a retail dealer in liquors.

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

dismissed; that § 3224, Rev. Stats.,1 prohibits the relief
prayed; that the bill states no ground for equitable relief;
and that full, adequate and complete remedy may be had
at law.
The cause is properly here by direct appeal from the
District Court. Appellant claimed that as construed and
sought to be enforced by the Collector, § 35 of the Prohibition Act conflicts with the Federal Constitution. The
point is substantial and sufficient to support our jurisdiction. Towne v. Eisner, 245 U. S. 418, 425; DahnkeWalker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282; South
Covington & Cincinnati Street Ry. Co. v. Newport
ante, 97.
The National Prohibition Act, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305, is
entitled "An Act To prohibit intoxicating beverages, and
to regulate the manufacture, production, use, and sale of
high-proof spirits for other than beverage purposes, and
to insure an ample supply of alcohol and promote its use
in scientific research and in the development of fuel, dye,
and other lawful industries." "It is a comprehensive
statute intended to prevent the manufacture and sale of
intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes."
United
States v. Yuginovich, 256 U. S. 450. "Title II-Prohbition of Intoxicating Beverages "-contains thirty-nine
sections.
"Sec. 3. No person shall on or after the date when the
eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United
States goes into effect, manufacture, sell, barter, transport, import, export, deliver, furnish or possess any intoxicating liquor except as authorized in this Act, and all the
provisions of this Act shall be liberally construed to the
end that the use of intoxicating liquor as a beverage may
be prevented.
1 See. 3224. No suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment

or collection of any tax shall be maintained in any court.

LIPIE v. LEDERER.
557.

Opinion of the Court.

"Sec. 29. Any person who manufactures or sells liquor
in violation of this title shall for a first offense be fined
not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not exceeding six
months, and for a second or subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $200 nor more than $2,000 and be
imprisoned not less than one month nor more than five
years.
"Sec. 35. All provisions of law that are inconsistent
with this Act are repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency and the regulations herein provided for the
manufacture or traffic in intoxicating liquor shall be construed as in addition to existing laws. This Act shall not
relieve anyone from paying any taxes or other charges
imposed upon the manufacture or traffic in such liquor.
No liquor revenue stamps or tax receipts for any illegal
manufacture or sale shall be issued in advance, but upon
evidence of such illegal manufacture or sale a tax shall
be assessed against, and collected from, the person responsible for such illegal manufacture or sale in double
the amount now provided by law, with an additional penalty of $500 on retail dealers and $1,000 on manufacturers. The payment of such tax or penalty shall give no
right to engage in the manufacture or sale of such liquor,
or relieve anyone from criminal liability, nor shall this
Act relieve any person from any liability, civil or criminal, heretofore or hereafter incurred under existing laws.
"The commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary
of the Treasury, may compromise any civil cause arising
under this title before bringing action in court; and with
the approval of the Attorney General he may compromise
any such cause after action thereon has been commenced."
The mere use of the word " tax" in an act primarily
designed to define and suppress crime is not enough to
show that within the true intendment of the term a tax
was laid. Child Labor Tax Case, ante, 20. When by its

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

very nature the imposition is a penalty, it must be so regarded. Helwig v. United States, 188 U. S. 605, 613.
Evidence of crime (§ 29) is essential to assessment under
§ 35. It lacks all the ordinary characteristics of a tax,
whose primary function "is to provide for the support of
the government" and clearly involves the idea of punishment for infraction of the law-the definite function of a
penalty. O'Sullivanv. Felix, 233 U. S. 318, 324.
The Collector demanded payment of a penalty and
§ 3224, which prohibits suits to restrain assessment or collection of any tax, is without application. And the same
is true as to statutes granting the right to sue for taxes
paid under protest. A revenue officer without notice has
undertaken to assess a penalty for an alleged criminal act
and threatens to enforce payment by seizure and sale of
property without opportunity for a hearing of any kind.
Section 35 prescribes no definite mode for enforcing the
imposition which it directs, and, if it be interpreted as
above stated, we do not understand counsel for the United
States claim that relief should be denied to the appellant.
Before collection of taxes levied by statutes enacted in
plain pursuance of the taxing power can be enforced, the
taxpayer must be given fair opportunity for hearingthis is essential to due process of law. Central of Georgia
Ry. Co. v. Wright, 207 U. S. 127, 136, 138, 142. And
certainly we cannot conclude, in the absence of language
admitting of no other construction, that Congress intended that penalties for crime should be enforced through
the secret findings and summary action of execdtive officers. The guarantees of due process of law and trial
by jury are not to be forgotten or disregarded. See Fontenot v. Accardo, 278 Fed. 871. A preliminary injunction
should have been granted.
The decree of the court below must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.

LIPKE v. LEDERER.
557.

BRANDEIS

and PITNm, JJ., dissenting.

MIR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS,
concurs.

dissenting, with whom MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

The suit is in equity. So far as appears, the plaintiff
had a full, adequate and complete remedy at law; and
there was no danger of irreparable injury. The relief
should, therefore, be denied, whatever the construction
of § 35, Title II, of the Volstead Act, and even if it be
deemed unconstitutional. Compare Bailey v. George,
ante, 16.
Plaintiff describes himself as a retail liquor dealer in
Philadelphia who had paid the federal special tax for the
year ending June 30, 1920, and held a license under the
Brooks Law which did not expire until May 31, 1921.
On December 29, 1920, he was arrested under § 2, Title
II, of the Volstead Act for illegally selling liquor; and the
prosecution is still pending. On Marc4 18, 1921, he received from the Collector of Internal Revenue a "Notice
and Demand for Tax "; and on March 31, 1921, a second
notice. By the latter he was informed that, if he did not
pay the alleged tax within ten days, collection would be
made by seizure and sale of his property. The amount
demanded is $557.29, made up of three items: one for
$45.83 for double tax under said § 35; another of $11.46
called penalty under § 3244 of the Revised Statutes; and
a further amount of $500.00 "special penalty" under said
§ 35. This suit against the Collector was commenced
May 25, 1921. The plaihtiff says that there is in law no
authority to levy this alleged tax and the penalties; that
the claim is in fact not for a tax, but for fines; that the
so-called "Notice and Demand for Tax" is in fact an attempt to inflict punishment without a hearing and without judicial trial; "and that he is wholly without adequate
remedy at law to prevent such seizure of his property."
The claim is for a small sum. For aught that appears
plaintiff might readily pay it under protest and bring an

564

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
BRANDis and Prnzr, JJ., dissenting.

259 U. S.

action against the Collector to recover the amount paid.
If he does not wish to pay, he can let the distraint be
made and then sue for the trespass incident to wrongful
distraint. And if personal property should be seized, he
may replevy it. There is in the bill no allegation that
the plaintiff is unable to pay the small amount claimed
by the Government; nor of fraud or oppression or abuse
of process on the part of the Collector; nor that a cloud
will be cast upon title to real estate; nor that the property subject to distraint is of such a character that if distrained it will be sacrificed; nor that a proceeding in
equity is necessary to prevent multiplicity of suits.
If the sum assessed against the plaintiff is a tax legally
due, distraint by the Collector is a permissible and long
sanctioned method of collection. Revised Statutes, §§
3187-3216; Hartmanv. Bean, 99 U. S. 393, 397; Blacklock
v. United States 208 U. S. 75. Compare Scottish Union
& National Insurance Co. v. Bowland, 196 U. S. 611, 632.
If it is in its nature a tax, but is claimed to be an unconstitutional one, still, particularly in view of Rev. Stats.
§ 3224, suit will not lie to restrain its collection. Snyder
v. Marks, 109 U. S. 189; Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U. S. 118.
And if the contention is that the Government's demand
is not for a tax at all, but for a fine, and that, therefore,
Congress lacks power to confer upon the Collector authority to collect it by distraint, still equity should not grant
relief, because the bill fails to allege any fact showing
that the legal remedy would not be adequate or that there
is danger of irreparable injury.1 Whether the Government's demand be deemed one for a fine or for a tax
'Compare Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wal. 108; Shelton v. Platt, 139
U. S. 591; Pittsburgh,etc., Ry. v. Board of Public Works, 172 U. S.
32; Arkansas Building & Loan Association v. Madden, 175 U. S. 269;
Indiana Manufacturing Co. v. Koehne, 188 U. S. 681; Boise Artesian
Water Co. v. Boise City, 213 U. S. 276; Singer Sewing Machine Co.
v. Benedict, 229 U. S. 481.

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
557.

Syllabus.

which is unconstitutional, legal remedies are available;
and there is, therefore, lack of jurisdiction in equity. We
have here, at the worst, the case of a threatened distraint
which it is contended will be wrongful if made; a case not
differing in substance from wrongful distraint by landlords or other wrongful distraint by tax collectors; and
not differing in substance from wrongful attachment. In
all these cases, as has long been settled, the owner of the
property of which seizure is threatened is not entitled to
relief in equity, unless it appears that there is no plain,
adequate and complete remedy at law.
Whether the action of the Government is lawful depends upon the construction of a statute; and on this
question the lower courts have differed. As was said by
this court in Arkansas Building & Loan Association v.
Madden, 175 U. S. 269, 274: "It is quite possible that
in cases of this sort the validity of a law may be more
conveniently tested, by the party denying it, by a bill in
equity than by an action at law; but considerations of
that character, while they may explain, do not justify, resort to that mode of proceeding." If the Government is
proceeding without warrant in law, the plaintiff should,
of course, have redress. An early determination of the
constitutional question presented would be desirable.
But, in my opinion, we cannot properly decide it in this
case.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS.
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.
No. 20, Original.

Partial decree entered June 5, 1922.

Red River is not a navigable stream in Oklahoma; the State acquired
no title to the part of the river bed within her borders by virtue of
her admission into the Union; her right, title and interest in that

