ATHERTON MILLS v. JOHNSTON.

.13

Opinion of the Court.

ATHERTON MILLS v. JOHNSTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 16. Argued December 10, 1919; restored to docket for reargument June 6, 1921; reargued March 7, 8, 1922.-Decided May 15,
1922.
A father and minor son secured a permanent injunction preventing
a manufacturer from discharging the son from employment in
consequence of the Federal Child Labor Tax Law, upon the ground
that the law was unconstitutional; but, pending an appeal, the
son ceased to be within the ages affected by the statute. Held,
that, as the case had become moot, the merits could not be considered, but the decree should be reversed with direction to dismiss
the bill without costs. P. 15.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court granting a
permanent injunction. See Child Labor Tax Case, post,
20.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder was on the brief, for the United States, as amici

curiae.'
Mr. William P. Bynum and Mr. W. M. Hendren, with
whom Mr. Clement Manly and Mr. Junius Parker were
on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The two Johnstons, father and son, citizens of North
Carolina, the former in his own right, and as the author'At the former hearing Mr. Solicitor General King and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Frierson argued the case on behalf of the
United States, as amici curiae, by special leave of court. No brief
was filed for either hearing by the appellant.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ized next friend of his son, filed their bill of complaint
April 15, 1919, against the Atherton Mills, a corporation
of the same State. The bill averred that Johnston, the
son, was a minor between the ages of fourteen and sixteen years, that Johnston, the father, supporting his son,
was entitled to his earnings until he attained his majority,
that the son was in the employ of the defendant, that by
the terms of the so-called Child Labor Tax Act, approved
February 24, 1919, c. 18, ยง 1200, 40 Stat. 1057, 1138, the
defendant was subjected to a tax of one-tenth of its
annual profits if it employed a child within the ages of
fourteen and sixteen for more than eight hours a day, six
days a week, or before the hour of 6 A. M. or after the
hour of 7 P. M.; that the defendant was unwilling to arrange a schedule of working hours to comply with this
requirement for the minor complainant, and was about to
discharge him because of the act, thus depriving the son
and father of all of the son's earnings. On the ground
that the act was invalid because beyond the powers of
Congress, and that the discharge would injure both complainants by a serious deprivation of earnings, which but
for the law they would enjoy, and that the granting of an
injunction would prevent a multiplicity of suits, they
prayed for an injunction against the defendant from discharging the complainant son or in any manner curtailing
his employment to eight hours a day or otherwise. The
defendant answered admitting all the substantial averments of the bill except the invalidity of the Child Labor
Tax Act. It specifically admitted its intention to discharge the complainant son when the act went into effect
and solely because of the act. On April 23, 1919, a motion for a preliminary injunction was heard. The United
States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina, not entering an appearance, but speaking as amicus
curiae, suggested "the want of jurisdiction because there
is no allegation in the bill of a contract preventing the de-

ATHERTON MILLS v. JOHNSTON.
13.

Opinion of the Court.

fendant from discharging the employee for any reason
that might seem fit to it, and also because the case is not
one arising under the internal revenue or other federal
laws so as to give the court jurisdiction to pass on the
validity of the law." The court granted the temporary
injunction and made it permanent by order of May 2,
1919.
The defendant appealed directly to this court under
ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, assigning error (1) to the
failure to dismiss the bill; (2) to the holding that the
Child Labor Tax Act was invalid; (3) to the injunction.
The record shows that the pleadings were framed to
bring this case within that of Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33,
38; but it differs from that case in that the sole defendant here is the employer, while in that case there was
joined with the employer the state officer who threatened
to enforce the alleged invalid law against his codefendant
and compel him to end the contract against his will and
to the complainant's irreparable damage. The record
further raises the doubt whether on its face this is a real
case within the meaning of the Constitution upon which
the judgment of this court upon the validity of an act of
Congress under the Constitution can be invoked, and
whether it does not violate the principle and ignore the
caution of the words of Mr. Justice Brewer in Chicago &
Grand Trunk Ry. Co. v. Welman, 143 U. S. 339, 345,
which are quoted in Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S.
346, 359. These are serious questions requiring full consideration. We only state them in order that it may not
be thought by our conclusion that we here decide them.
The lapse of time since the case was heard and decided
in the District Court has brought the minor, whose employment was the subject-matter of the suit, to an age
which is not within the ages affected by the act. The
act, even if valid, can not affect him further. The case
for an injunction has, therefore, become moot and we can

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Statement of the Case.

259 U. S.

not consider it. Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651; Codlin v.
Kohlhausen, 181 U. S. 151; Tennessee v. Condon, 189
U. S. 64, 71; American Book Co. v. Kansas, 193 U. S.
49, 51; Jones v. Montague, 194 U. S. 147; Fisher v.
Baker, 203 U. S. 174.
The case having become moot the decree is reversed
with a direction to dismiss the bill without costs to either
party.
Reversed.
BAILEY, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
ET AL. v. GEORGE, TRADING AND DOING
BUSINESS AS VIVIAN COTTON MILLS, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 590.

Argued March 7, 8, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

A bill to enjoin a levy and sale of property to satisfy a penalty
prescribed as a tax by an unconstitutional act of Congress,
will not lie, in face of the inhibition of Rev. Stats., ยง 3224, when
it sets up no extraordinary circumstances rendering that section
inapplicable and exhibits no reason why the legal remedy of payment under protest and action to recover would not be adequate.
P. 19.
274 Fed. 639, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court permanently enjoining a collector and his deputy from collecting an assessment under the Federal Child Labor Tax
Law. See also Child Labor Tax Case, post, 20.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for appellants, attacked the jurisdiction of
the lower court, citing Rev. Stats., ยง 3224, and contending that the imposition in question was a tax within the
meaning of that section, whether unconstitutional or not;

