20

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 UTS.

equitable relief in the premises "; but there are no specific
facts set forth sustaining this mere legal conclusion. Section 3224, Rev. Stats., provides that "No suit for the
purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any
tax shall be maintained in any court." The averment
that a taxing statute is unconstitutional does not take this
case out of the section. There must be some extraordinary and exceptional circumstance not here averred or
shown to make the provisions of the section inapplicable.
Dodge v. Brady, 240 U. S. 122, 126. In spite of their
averment, the complainants did not exhaust all their legal

remedies. They might have paid the amount assessed
under protest and then brought suit against the Collector
to recover the amount paid with interest. No fact is
alleged which would prevent them from availing themselves of this form of remedy.
The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded with directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.
CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.1
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 657. Argued March 7, 8, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.
1. An act of Congress which clearly, on its face, is designed to
penalize, and thereby to discourage or suppress, conduct the regulation of which is reserved by the Constitution exclusively to the
States, can not be sustained under the federal taxing power by
calling the penalty a tax. P. 37. Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.27; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S.107; and United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.86,
distinguished.
'The docket title of this case is J. W. Bailey and J. W. Bailey,
Collector of Internal Revenue for the District of North Carolina, v.
Drexel FurnitureCompany.

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

2. Title XII of the Revenue Act of February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40
Stat. 1138, entitled "Tax on Employment of Child Labor," provides that any person operating (a) any mine or quarry in which
children under the age of sixteen years have been employed or
permitted to work during any portion of the taxable year, or (b)
any mill, cannery, workshop or factory in which children under
the age of fourteen years have been employed or permitted to
work, or children between the ages of fourteen and sixteen have
been employed or permitted to work more than eight hours in
any day, or more than six days in any week, or after 7 o'clock
P. M. or before 6 o'clock A. M., during any portion of the taxable
year, shall pay for such taxable year an excise equivalent to ten
per cent. of the entire net profits received or accrued for such
year from the sale or disposition of the product of his mine or
other establishment; but relieves from liability one who employs
a child believing him to be above the specified ages, relying on a
certificate issued under authority of a board consisting of the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
and the Secretary of Labor, or under the laws of a State designated
by them. Provision is made for inspection of the mines, etc., by
or under authority of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, or by
or under authority of the Secretary of Labor upon request of the
Commissioner, and obstruction of such inspections is made punishable by fine and imprisonment. Held unconstitutional. P. 34.
276 Fed. 452, affirmed.

to a judgment of the District Court for the
plaintiff in an action against an internal revenue collector
to recover the amount of a tax previously paid under
protest.
ERROR

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
I. Congress has described this as a tax, and whether
constitutional or otherwise by reason of its incidences, it
is nevertheless an excise tax. It may not be easy to draw
a line of demarcation between a penalty and a tax, but
the line of demarcation seems to be that, where the statute prohibits the doing of an act and as a sanction imposes a pecuniary punishment for violating the act, then

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

it is a penalty, and not a tax at all; but, where the thing
done is not prohibited, but, with respect to the privilege
of doing it, an excise tax is imposed, it is none the less a
tax, even though it be, in its practical results, prohibitive.
The Child Labor Law does not pretend to, and does
not in fact, prohibit the employment of child labor. If
a manufacturer desires to employ such labor, he is free to
do so; but, if he does so, he must 1Say an excise tax for
the privilege. Where the excise tax is prohibitive in
amount, there may be little practical difference between
such an excise tax and a penal prohibition; but, theoretically, they are different exercises of governmental
power.
II. Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251, does not rule
this case. While the federal commercial power only
relates to interstate and foreign commerce, the taxing
power comprehends all taxable objects, whether interstate
or intrastate.
The License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, are analogous
to the present case. The court there conceded that
"Congress has no power of regulation nor any direct
control" over the domestic trade of a State, "except
such as is strictly incidental to the exercise of powers
clearly granted to the legislature," 5 Wall. 470, 471; but
nevertheless sustained the power to impose an excise
upon the sale of liquor wherever the sale was permitted.
So, also, the question whether child labor may be employed or not is a matter for the determination of the
States. But the tax law in the instant case does not regulate the internal affairs of the States any more than did
the taxing statute sustained in the License Tax Cases.
It does not prohibit child labor. It merely requires the
manufacturer who employs child labor to pay a tax not
imposed upon one who does not employ child labor.
Certainly Congress may select the subjects of taxation.

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

III. Subject only to limitations named in the Constitution, the power of Congress to tax may e exercised
at discretion.
"The power of Congress to tax is a very extensive
power. It is given in the Constitution, with only one
exception and only two qualifications. Congress cannot
tax exports, and it must impose direct taxes by the rule
of apportionment and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. Thus limited, and thus only, it reaches every
subject, and may be exercised at discretion." License
Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 471. The court has repeatedly
taken the same position in other cases. Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 153, 154; United States v.
Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, 93, 94; Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. S.
509, 519; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.27, 57-62.
While the Federal Government may not tax the governmental agencies of the States, it may tax the nongovernmental activities of the people of the States. Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; Choctaw, 0. & G. R. R. Co.
v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531, 536, 537; South Carolina v.
United States, 199 U. S. 437.
When a State adopts a law the necessary effect of which
is to exercise a power granted by the Constitution to the
Federal Government, it must follow that the act is void.
But, as pointed out in McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27, 60, this is due to the paramount nature of the Constitution. Under Art. VI, where there is any conflict between state and federal activity, the Federal Government
is supreme. Where Congress in exerting its power to
levy taxes deals with a subject which might also be regulated by the police power of the State, the federal statute
is not nullified by any power which the State might otherwise possess.
IV. The power to lay taxes is not limited to the raising
of revenue. Story, Const., § 973. See also § 965.
Taxes have rarely, if ever, been levied solely with reference to fiscal necessities. From time out of mind the

24

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 V. S.

body that imposed taxes has considered all the varying
influences upon the public welfare that such a levy would
incidentally entail, and frequently the social, economic or
moral effect of the tax is a far more influential consideration with the legislature than the mere question of revenue. It has always been true that in levying taxes Congress has taken into consideration matters that are beyond the scope of federal authority. From the beginning, import duties, and at times internal taxes, have been
levied in order to accomplish ends, sometimes moral and
sometimes economic; which were in themselves not within
the scope of federal power.
Thus, when liquor was a permissible commodity, it was
always recognized that to impose heavy excise taxes upon
its sale accomplished a moral purpose, and yet, until the
Eighteenth Amendment, the morality of drinking was not
a question with which the Federal Government had any
concern.
And, in McCray v. United States, 195 U. S. 27, where
it may be supposed that Congress had sought to attain
an economic end by means of a taxing statute, this court
refused to declare the legislation unconstitutional.
Well-known examples of the use of the taxing power
in connection with social or economic ends are the protective tariff system; the tax on foreign-built yachts,
Billings v. United States, 232 U. S. 261; on notes of state
banks, Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; on importation
of alien passengers, Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580;
graduation of taxes, Magoun v. Bank, 170 U. S. 283;
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Brushaber v. Union
Pacific R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 1; on oleomargarine, In re Kollock, 165 U. S. 526; McCray v. United States, 195 U. S.
27; on sugar refiners, American Sugar Refining Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89. Well-known uses of the power
in connection with moral ends are taxes on dealers in
liquors and lottery tickets, License Tax Cases, 5 Wall.

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

462; on dealers in narcotic drugs, United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86.
V. The motive of Congress is immaterial. Veazie
Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533, 548; Chinese Exclusion Case,
130 U. S. 581, 602, 603; McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27, 54, 56; Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co.,
255 U. S. 180.
This court is powerless to say judicially that the
motive of Congress in levying the tax under consideration was not to impose a tax, but to regulate child labor.
Moreover, if, in levying the tax upon manufacturers that
employ child labor, Congress did so with a recognition
that such a tax might result in no revenue at all, and virtually prohibit the employment of child labor, such purpose, while it may be politically anti-constitutional, in
the sense that it may indirectly and incidentally regulate
a matter otherwise within the discretion of the States, yet
it is not juridically unconstitutional, because it is an
exercise of an undoubted power to impose a tax; and the
motives and objectives of the tax are within that broad
field of political discretion into which the judiciary is
powerless to enter. To use Madison's phrase, it is an
"extra-judicial" question and as such beyond the power
of the court.
Such an excise is not expressly prohibited, and, as it
does raise revenue, if a manufacturer exercises his undoubted right to employ child labor, it, in the language
of Chief Justice Marshall in McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 423, "is really calculated to effect any
[one] of the objects intrusted to the Government." Certainly such a case falls expressly within the doctrine
announced in McCray v. United States, supra, that this
court will not restrain the exercise of lawful power on
the assumption that a wrongful purpose or motive has
caused the power to be exerted.
We do not concede that no fiscal reason can be assigned
which justifies the Child Labor Law as a revenue meas-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

259 U. S.

ure. It is notorious that child labor is cheap labor, and
this being so, Congress may have considered this privilege of cheaper production as a fiscal reason for the tax.
However, if this court is empowered to consider the
motive of Congress, then the contention that the dominant motive was to make the employment of child labor
expensive by reason of added taxation is not unreasonable.
If so, it is not the first time in the history of taxation
that taxes have been imposed for other than fiscal purposes. The question is, not what the motive of Congress
is, but does this statute impose an excise tax; and, if so,
whether the imposition of such a tax has been forbidden
by the Constitution?
Certainly by no express prohibition, and it remains to
inquire whether it is by an implied prohibition.'
The doctrine of implied powers is a natural and necessary one; but the doctrine of implied limitations is one
for which there is little countenance in either the text of
the Constitution or its judicial interpretation.
Few, if any implied limitations upon expressly delegated powers have ever had the sanction of this court.
The greatest of all was that which was recognized in
McCulloch v. Maryland, and it is the only implied limitation upon the taxing power, and it was decided from
an obvious and imperative necessity, for neither the Federal Government nor the constituent States could possibly continue to exist if either had the power to tax
the agencies of the other out of existence.
With this exception, however, this court has said repeatedly that the power to tax is only restricted by the
express prohibitions of the Constitution, and none can be
implied where, as in the instant case, they depend upon a
question of fact, viz, the motive for the exercise of the
delegated power.
VI. In considering this question 'of invalidating the
exercise of a delegated power by reason of its assumed

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

motives or objectives, a distinction should be made between the following classes of cases:
(a) Where the exercise of a federal power has an unquiestioned but incidental effect upon- some right reserved
to the States. In this case obviously the federal statute
can not be invalidated. Few laws could be passed, either
by State or Nation, that would not have a reflex action.
(b) Instances where it is clear that Congress in passing
a federal statute not only has a legitimate federal purpose
but may also have been actuated by some motive beyond
the province of the Federal Government. In this case,
there is also no power to invalidate a federal statute.
This court could not, even if it would, weigh different
motives.
(c) Cases where, from the history of the legislation,
there is reason to believe that the power was exercised,
not to accomplish some purpose intrusted to the Federal
Government by the Constitution, but wholly to accomplish by indirect action some purpose which was not
within its scope. Here, too, this court can not invalidate
a statute, because, however plausible the inference may
be in a given case of an ulterior and unconstitutional
motive, it can not judge the motive and object of Congress, either by declarations in debate or even by the
history of the legislation. The good faith of Congress in
passing the law must be assumed.
(d) Cases in which this court can indubitably deduce
from the language of the act that the exercise of the
power was not to accomplish any purpose intrusted to
the Federal Government, but rather some purpose beyond
the scope of federal power. Here, if in any case, this
court may nullify the law. Such a case was Hammer v.
Dagenhart,supra.
Can such a case arise in a taxing statute? Can it be
safely adjudged that Congress did not intend to impose a
tax, when it expressly says that it does? In McCray v.

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

259 U. S.

United States, supra, this court answered this question in
the negative.
In the instant case it may be that Congress intended
incidentally to regulate child labor by the exercise of its
taxing power, but this is one of the cases where Congress,
having lawfully chosen the subjects for taxation, its exercise of an undoubted power cannot be challenged, because
such tax may have an incidental effect upon some reserved rights of the States. If this were not so, many
federal taxes would be assailed, because it has always been
true that in levying taxes Congress has taken into consideration matters that are beyond the scope of federal
regulation.
Mr. William P. Bynum, with whom Mr.Jno. N. Wilson,
Mr. Clement Manly, Mr. W. M. Hendren and Mr. Junius
Parkerwere on the brief, for defendant in error.
That this statute is unconstitutional is determined by
the decision in Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251,
declaring the Child Labor Law of 1916 unconstitutional.
Notwithstanding this solemn decision by this court,
Congress in its enactment of the Federal Revenue Act of
1918, the consideration of which began soon after the
decision in Hammer v. Dagenhart, prescribed precisely
the same minimum ages and the same working hours
which it had prescribed in the statute of 1916, and provided that the employer operating a mine, quarry, mill,
cannery or factory, who saw fit to disregard the will of
Congress in his employment of children, should, instead
of having his goods shut out of interstate commerce, as
the statute of 1916 had provided, be subjected to a socalled tax of ten per cent on all the profits of his business
additional to all other taxes.
It needs no reference to the debates to ascertain the
purpose of Congress in this enactment, and the direct
effect of such enactment-if it is to have validity and

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

effect at all. If recourse to the debates were necessary
or desirable, it shows the frankest and clearest expression
of the congressional ;will and purpose..
It does not consist with the dignity that should characterize arguments in this court to discuss, as if it were
an uncertain thing, the purpose and effect of this statute.
Of course, it is not a revenue statute, and of course it is
an attempt to impose upon all the citizens in all the
States the congressional will as to their conduct in the
operation of their manufacturing, mining and quarrying
enterprises.
The statute is condemned by the principles announced
by this court in numerous cases, including cases in which
taxing statutes have been upheld. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423; Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall.
533, 548; United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S. 86, 93;
Cooley on Taxation, 3d ed., 82.
If sustained as a tax, it must be as a privilege tax, and
yet it does not purport to bear any relation in amount to
the extent that the privilege is enjoyed. It is not a tax
on the products of child labor, but it is a tax on the employing of children under circumstances not approved by
Congress, and the amount to be paid for disobedience to
the will of Congress is arrived at precisely as the criminal
judge arrives 6t the fine to be paid by a convicted criminal. So this statute imposes a tax of ten per cent on
the total profits, whether from the employment of children or the employment of adults--whether from the
investment of large capital, or skill or good fortune in
management-that the offending employer has made during the year.
The employment of children, under conditions and
circumstances condemned by the competent legislative
authority, has never in the history of the world been
treated as a privilege, but has always been treated as a
crime. Whatever may be said as to the hours and cir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

259 U. S.

cumstances of employment of adults, no one for many
years has doubted that the regulation of minimum ages
for children's employment, and maximum hours for a
child's day labor, is within the police power of the States.
This statute is a criminal statute, under the general
title "A Bill to Raise Revenue." It is an attempt to
make regulations, in accordance with congressional wishes,
and applicable to the whole country, in a matter so influenced by local surroundings as to be properly regulated
only by local legislatures.
It iE not true that the taxing power of Congress is
limited only by the limitations expressly stated by the
Constitution to be applicable to the power to tax, to-wit,
that exports may not be taxed, and that direct taxes must
be apportioned, and excise taxes uniform. This court has
expressly and repeatedly recognized other limitations.
Evans v. Gore, 253 U. S. 245; Collector v. Day, 11 Wall.
113; Pollock v.Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.429,
585, 601, 652, 653; United States v. Railroad Co., 17
Wall. 322.
Considering the sovereign powers of the Federal Government and of the States respectively in their several
spheres, this court has condemned this statute in principle in its condemnation of certain taxing statutes of the
States. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S.1, 37; InternationalPaperCo. v. Massachusetts, 246
U. S. 135.
It is the Constitution and the federal statutes enacted
in accordance therewith that constitute the supreme law
of the land, and federal statutes enacted otherwise are not
only not the supreme law of the land but not law at all.
Under our Constitution the Nation and the States are not
to be weighed in the balance to ascertain any general
supremacy-the Nation is supreme in the exercise of the
powers delegated to it, and the States are supreme in the
exercise of the powers reserved to them. Collector v.
Day, supra.

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The attributes of sovereignty that belong to the States
in matter of taxation have been declared by this court
in numerous cases to be of the kind, character and quality
that belong to the Federal Government. Bell's Gap R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232; Flint v. Stone Tracy
Co., 220 U. S. 107, 160.
The power of Congress is "to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imposts and excises," and there is no expressly
given power to provide, under color of a tax law, for the
"general welfare of the United States."
The fact that protective tariffs have been levied and
have always been assumed to be valid is in no way controlling or influential in the present case. It is frequently
suggested that this analogy requires the courts to sustain
any tax imposed in the ostensible exercise of the taxing
power, even though it is plainly apparent that revenue is
not sought. This, though, leaves out of consideration the
fact that Congress does have the undoubted power to exclude importations altogether, and since the greater includes the less, it must have the power to place such
conditions upon the importations as it sees fit.
The decisions of this court that sustain revenue acts of
Congress which incidentally affect conduct directly to be
regulated only by the States, do not constitute authorities
for sustaining this statute.
Congress could not possibly levy internal excise taxes,
whether collected by stamps or otherwise, without some
incidental interference with the conduct of citizens in
those fields which are directly regulatable only by the
States. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Nicol v. Ames,
173 U. S. 509; Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107;
Knowlton v. Moore, 178 U. S. 41; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397; Springer v. United
States, 102 U. S. 586.
Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533; United States v.
Doremus, 249 U. S. 86; and McCray v. United States,

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

259 U. S.

195 U. S. 27, are distinguishable from the case at bar, and
are not authorities for holding this statute constitutional.
The decision in the Veazie Bank Case-asdistinguished
from some of the unnecessary words of the Chief Justice-is authority only for the proposition, not here contested, that, where the power to regulate exists, the court
will not deny the validity of any statute that accomplishes such regulation.
This is a Federal Government with a written constitution, and if any statute, federal or state, is not in
accordance with that written constitution, it is the duty
of this court to declare such statute void. Fairbankv.
United States, 181 U. S. 283, 285.
This is a federated government--"an. indissoluble
union of indestructible States "--and no state legislation
is valid that encroaches upon the powers delegated to the
union, and no federal legislation is valid that encroaches
upon the powers reserved to the States. Inevitably the
efficient exercise of a federal power may incidentally
diminish, or otherwise affect, a state power; but if the
encroachment be direct, and not incidental, then the federal statute is void. Hammer v. Dagenhart, supra, 275;
Lane County v. Oregon, 7 Wall. 71, 76; Fairbank v.
United States, 181 U. S. 283, 289.
The enforcement of the constitutional limitations on
the legislative powers of Congress or the States, resolves
itself always into a practical matter. It is quite impossible, by precise legal formula, to limit the extent of the
police power of the States as opposed to the limitation of
the Fourteenth Amendment; or to define the limitations
on the power of Congress prescribed by the due process
clause; or to separate the proper functions of State and
Nation. After all is said and done, there remains the
question of practical effect, and there must be a point,
the location of which depends to some extent on the qualities and characteristics of statesmanship of the members

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the court, where the court must say "Thus far and no
farther."
The maxim of our law, first enunciated by Marshall,
that the power to tax is the power to destroy, is not an
admonition to the courts to assume that every tax law
passed by the sovereign power is valid; but it is an admonition to scrutinize carefully whether the power exists,
because of the realization that, if it exists, it may be used
to the extent of destruction. Knowlton v. Moore, 178
U. S. 41, 60.
Even this court may not declare a congressional enactment void because it is in the judgment of members of
the court unwise; there must be "juridical unconstitutionality," and not simply "political anti-constitutionality," to warrant the court holding a statute passed by
Congress unconstitutional and void. This does not mean,
though, that this court must demonstrate the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of a statute by the application of a legalistic formula or distinction, such Tt s might
be very useful in disposing of the ordinary legal question.
It does not mean, either, that this court is to shut~its eyes
to every tendency of the times, or to every consideration
of the effect on our institutions of the decision that it is
called upon to make. The decisions of this court announced by John Marshall stopped the tendency toward
magnification of the individual States, and if that tendency had not been stopped the Nation would have been
impotent. The present tendency is in the other direction, and the Federal Government is overloaded, while
the States are being left to function hardly at all.
The question before this court in this case, is, Whether
a resort to the commerce clause of the Constitution having failed, Congress may, by a resort to the tax clause of
the same instrument, control the entire police power of
the States, and so open the door to the complete nationalization of our Government, so ardently desired by some
of the publicists of our day.

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

MR.CHIMP JusTIcE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case presents the question of the constitutional
validity of the Child Labor Tax Law. The plaintiff below, the Drexel Furniture Company, is engaged in the
manufacture of furniture in the Western District of
North Carolina. On September 20, 1921, it received a
notice from Bailey, United States Collector of Internal
Revenue for the District, that it had been assessed
$6,312.79 for having during the taxable year 1919 employed and permitted to work in its factory a boy under
fourteen years of age, thus incurring the tax of ten per
cent. on its net profits for that year. The Company
paid the tax under protest, and after rejection of its
claim for a refund, brought this suit. On demurrer to
an amended complaint, judgment was entered for the
Company against the Collector for the full amount with
interest. The writ of error is prosecuted by the Collector
direct from the District Court under § 238 of the Judicial
Code.
The Child Labor Tax Law is Title XII of an act entitled "An Act To provide revenue, and for other purposes ", approved February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057,
1138. The heading of the title is "Tax on Employment
of Child Labor ". It begins with § 1200 and includes
eight sections. Section 1200 is as follows:
"SEc. 1200. That every person (other than a bona
fide boys' or girls' canning club recognized by the Agricultural Department of a State and of the United States)
operating (a) any mine or quarry situated in the United
States in which children under the age of sixteen years
have been employed or permitted to work during any
portion of the taxable year; or (b) any mill, cannery,
workshop, factory, or manufacturing establishment situated in the United States in which children under the
age of fourteen years have been employed or permitted to

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Opinion of the Court.

work, or children between the ages of fourteen and sixteen have been employed or permitted to work more
than eight hours in any day or more than six days in
any week, or after the hour of seven o'clock post meridian,
or before the hour of six o'clock ante meridian, during
any portion of the taxable year, shall pay for each taxable
year, in addition to all other taxes imposed by law, an
excise tax equivalent to 10 per centum of the entire net
profits received or accrued for such year from the sale
or disposition of the product of such mine, quarry, mill,
cannery, workshop, factory, or manufacturing establishment."
Section 1203 relieves from liability to the tax any one
who employs a child, believing him to be of proper age,
relying on a certificate to this effect issued by persons
prescribed by a Board-consisting of the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and the
Secretary of Labor, or issued by state authorities. The
section also provides in paragraph (b) that "the tax
imposed by this title shall not be imposed in the case
of any person who proves to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the only employment or permission to work
which but for this section would subject him to the tax,
has been of a child employed or permitted to work under
a mistake of fact as to the age of such child, and without
intention to evade the tax."
Section 1206 gives authority to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, or any other person authorized by
him, "to enter and inspect at any time any mine, quarry,
mill, cannery, workshop, factory, or manufacturing establishment." The Secretary of Labor, or any person whom
he authorizes, is given like authority in order to comply
with a request of the Commissioner to make such inspection and report the same. Any person who refuses
entry or obstructs inspection is made subject to fine or
imprisonment or both.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The law is attacked on the ground that it is a regulation of the employment of child labor in the States-an
exclusively state function under the Federal Constitution
and within the reservations of the Tenth Amendment. It
is defended on the ground that it is a mere excise tax
levied by the Congress of the United States under its
broad power of taxation conferred by § 8, Article I, of
the Federal Constitution. We must construe the law
and interpret the intent and meaning of Congress from
the language of the act. The words are to be given their
ordinary meaning unless the context shows that they
are differently used. Does this law impose a tax with
only that incidental restraint and regulation which a tax
must inevitably involve? Or does it regulate by the use
of the so-called tax as a penalty? If a tax, it.is clearly
an excise. If it were an excise oir a commodity or other
thing of value we might not be permitted under previous
decisions of this court to infet solely from its heavy
burden that the act intends a prohibition instead of a tax.
But this act is more. It provides a heavy exaction for a
departure from a detailed aid specified course of conduct in business. That course of business is that employers shall employ in mines and quarries, children of
an age greatdr than sixteen years; in mills and factories,
children of an age greater than fourteen years, and shall
prevent children of less than sixteen years in mills and
factories from working more than eight hours a day or six
days in the week. If an employer departs from this
prescribed course of business, he is to pay to the Government one-tenth of his entire net income in the business
for a full year. The amount is not to be proportioned
in any degree to the extent or frequency of the departures,
but is to be paid by the employer in full measure whether
he employs five hundred children for a year, or employs
only one for a day. Moreover, if he does not know the
child is within the named age limit, he is not to pay;

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Opinion of the Court.

that is to say, it is only where he knowingly departs

from the prescribed course that payment is to be exacted.
Scienter is associated with penalties not with taxes.
The employer's factory is to be subject to inspection at
any time not only by the taxing officers of the Treasury,
the Department normally charged with the collection of
taxes, but also by the Secretary of Labor and his subordinates whose normal function is the advancement and
protection of the welfare of the workers. In the light
of these features of the act, a court must be blind not
to see that the so-called tax is imposed to stop the employment of children within the age limits prescribed.
Its prohibitory and regulatory effect and purpose are
palpable. All others can see and understand, this. How
can we properly shut our minds to it?
It is the high duty and function of this court in cases
regularly brought to its bar to decline to recognize or
enforce seeming laws of Congress, dealing with subjects
not entrusted to Congress but left or committed by the
supreme law of the land to the control of the States. We
can not avoid the duty even though it require us to refuse
to give effect to legislation designed to promote the highest
good. The good sought in unconstitutional legislation is
an insidious feature because it leads citizens and legislators
of good purpose to promote it without thought of the
serious breach it will make in the ark of our covenant or
the harm which will come from breaking down recognized
standards. In the maintenance of local self government,
on the one hand, and the national power, on the other, our
country has been able to endure and prosper for near a
century and a half.
Out of a proper respect for the acts of a coordinate
branch of the Government, this court has gone far to
sustain taxing acts as such, even though there has been
ground for suspecting from the weight of the tax it was
intended to destroy its subject. But, in the act before

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

us, the presumption of validity cannot prevail, because
the proof of the contrary is found on the very face of its
provisions. Grant the validity of this law, and all that
Congress would need to do, hereafter, in seeking to take
over to its control any one of the great number of subjects of public interest, jurisdiction of which the States
have never parted with, and which are reserved to them
by the Tenth Amendment, would be to enact a detailed
measure of complete regulation of the subject and enforce
it by a so-called tax upon departures from it. To give
such magic to the word "tax" would be to break down
all constitutional limitation of the powers of Congress and
completely wipe out the sovereignty of the States.
The difference between a tax and a penalty is sometimes difficult to define and yet the consequences of the
distinction in the required method of their collection often
are important. Where the sovereign enacting the law has
power to impose both tax and penalty the difference
between revenue production and mere regulation may be
immaterial, but not so when one sovereign can impose a
tax only, and the power of regulation rests in another.
Taxes are occasionally imposed in the discretion of the
legislature on proper subjects with the primary motive
of obtaining revenue from them and with the incidental
motive of discouraging them by making their continuance
onerous. They do not lose their character as taxes because
of the incidental motive. But there comes a time in the
extension of the penalizing features of the so-called tax
when it loses its character as such and becomes a mere
penalty with the characteristics of regulation and punishment. Such is the case in the law before us. Although
Congress does not invalidate the contract of employment
or expressly declare that the employment within the mentioned ages is illegal, it does exhibit its intent practically
to achieve the latter result by adopting the criteria of
wrongdoing and imposing its principal consequence on
those who transgress its standard.

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20

Opinion of the Court.

The case before us can not be distinguished from that
of Hammer v. Dagenhart,247 U. S. 251. Congress there
enacted a law to prohibit transportation in interstate commerce of goods made at a factory in which there was employment of children within the same ages and for the
same number of hours a day and days in a week as are
penalized by the act in this case. This court held the law
in that case to be void. It said:
"In our view the necessary effect of this act is, by
means of a prohibition against the movement in interstate commerce of ordinary commercial commodities, to
regulate the hours of labor of children in factories and
mines within the States, a purely state authority."
In the case at the bar, Congress in the name of a tax
which on the face of the act is a penalty seeks to do the
same thing, and the effort must be equally futile.
The analogy of the DagenhartCase is clear. The congressional power over interstate commerce is, within its
proper scope, just as complete and unlimited as the congressional power to tax, and the legislative motive in its
exercise is just as free from judicial suspicion and inquiry.
Yet when Congress threatened to stop interstate commerce in ordinary and necessary commodities, unobjectionable as subjects of transportation, and to deny the
same to the people of a State in order to coerce them into
compliance with Congress's regulation of state concerns,
the court said this was not in fact regulation of interstate
commerce, but rather that of State concerns and was invalid. So here the so-called tax is a penalty to coerce
people of a State to act as Congress wishes them to act
in respect of a matter completely the business of the
state government under the Federal Constitution. This
case requires as did the Dagenhart Case the application
of the principle announced by Chief Justice Marshall in
McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 423, in a much
quoted passage:

40

OCTOBER TERM,1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

"Should Congress, in the execution of its powers, adopt
measures which are prohibited by the Constitution; or
should Congress, under the pretext of executing its powers, pass laws for the accomplishment of objects not intrusted to the government; it would become the painful
duty of this tribuna4 should a case requiring such a decision come before it, to say, that such an act was not the
liw of the land.'
But it is pressed upon us that this court has gone so
far in sustaining taxing meusures the effect or tendency
of which was to accomplish purposes not directly within
congressional power that we are bound by authority to
maintain this law.
The first of these is Veazie Bank v. Fenno, 8 Wall. 533.
In that case, the validity of a law which increased a tax
on the circulating notes of persons and state banks from
one per centum to ten per ceitum was in question. The
main question was whether this was a direct tax to be
apportioned among the several States "according to their
respective numbers." This was answered in the negative.
The second objection was stated by the court:
"It is insisted, however, that the tax in the case before
us is.excessive, and so excessive as to indicate a purpose
on the part of Congress to destroy the franchise of the
bank, and is, therefore,, beyond the constitutional power
of Congress."
To this the court answered (p. 548):
"The first answer to this is that the judicial cannot prescribe to the legislative departments of the government
limitations upon the exercise of its acknowledged powers.
The power to tax may'be exercised oppressively upon persons, but the responsibility of the legislature is not to the
courts, but to the people by whom its members are elected.
So if a particular tax bears heavily upon a corporation,
or a class of corporations, it cannot, for that reason only,
be pronounced contrary to the Constitution."

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Opinion of the Court.

It will be observed that the sole objection to the tax
there was its excessive character. Nothing else appeared
on the face of the act. It was an increase of a tax admittedly legal to a higher rate and that was all. There were
no elaborate specifications on the face of the act, as here,
indicating the purpose to regulate matters-9f state concern and jurisdiction through an exaction so applied as to
give it the qualities of a penalty for violation of law
rather than a tax.
It should be noted, too, that the court, speaking of the
extent of the taxing power, used these cautionary words
(p. 541):
"There are, indeed, certain virtual limitations, arising
from the principles of the Constitution itself. It would
undoubtedly be an abuse of the power if so exercised as
to impair the separate existence and independent selfgovernment of the States, or if exercised for ends inconsistent with the limited grants of power in the Constitution."
But more than this, what was charged to be the object
of the excessive tax was within the congressional authority, as appears from the second answer which the
court gave to the objection. After having pointed out the
legitimate means taken by Congress to secure a national
medium or currency, the court said (p. 549):
"Having thus, in the exercise of undisputed constitutional powers, undertaken to provide a currency for the
whole country, it cannot be questioned that Congress
may, constitutionally, secure the benefit of it to the people by appropriate legislation. To this end, Congress has
denied the quality of legal tender to foreign coins, and
has provided by laiv against the imposition of counterfeit
and base coin on the community. To the same end, Congress may restrain, by suitable enactments, the circulation as money of any notes not issued under its own authority. Without this power, indeed, its attempts to se-

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

cure a sound and uniform currency for the country must
be futile."
The next case is that of McCray v. United States, 195
U. S. 27. That, like the Veazie Bank Case, was the increase of an excise tax upon a subject properly taxable
in which the taxpayers claimed that the tax had become
invalid because the increase was excessive. It was a tax
on oleomargarine, a substitute for butter. The tax on
the white oleomargarine was one-quarter of a cent a
pound, and on the yellow oleomargarine was first two
cents and was then by the act in question increased to ten
cents per pound. This court held that the discretion of
Congress in the exercise of its constitutional powers to
levy excise taxes could not be controlled or limited by the
courts because the latter might deem the incidence of the
tax oppressive or even destructive. It was the same principle as that applied in the Veazie Bank Case. This was
that Congress in selecting its subjects for taxation might
impose the burden where and as it would and that a motive disclosed in its selection to discourage sale or manufacture of an article by a higher tax than on some other
did not invalidate the tax. In neither of these cases did
the law objected to show on its face as does the law before us the detailed specifications of a regulation of a state
concern and business with a heavy exaction to promote
the efficacy of such regulation.
The third case is that of Flint v. Stone Tracy Co., 220
U. S. 107. It involved the validity of an excise tax levied
on the doing of business by all corporations, joint stock
companies, associations organized for profit having a capital stock represented by shares, and insurance companies,
and measured the excise by the net income of the corporations. There was not in that case the slightest doubt
that the tax was a tax, and a tax for revenue, but it was
attacked on the ground that such a tax could be made excessive and thus used by Congress to destroy the exist-

CHILD LABOR TAX CASE.
20.

Opinion of the Court.

ence of state corporations. To this, this court gave the
same answer as in the Veazie Bank and MeCray Cases.
It is not so strong an authority for the Government's contention as they are.
The fourth case is United States v. Doremus, 249 U. S.
86. That involved the validity of the Narcotic Drug
Act, 38 Stat. 785, which imposed a special tax on the
manufacture, importation and sale or gift of opium or
coca leaves or their compounds or derivatives. It required every person subject to the special tax to register
with the Collector of Internal Revenue his name and
place of business and forbade him to sell except upon the
written order of the person to whom the sale was made
on a form prescribed by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. The vendor was required to keep the order for
two years, and the purchaser to keep a duplicate for the
same time and both were to be subject to official inspection. Similar requirements were made as to sales upon
prescriptions of a physician and as to the dispensing of
such drugs directly to a patient by a physician. The
validity of a special tax in the nature of an excise tax on
the manufacture, importation and sale of such drugs was,
of course, unquestioned. The provisions for subjecting
the sale and distribution of the drugs to official supervision and inspection were held to have a reasonable relation to the enforcement of the tax and were therefore
held valid.
The court said that the act could not be declared invalid just because another motive than taxation, not
shown on the face of the act, might have contributed to
its passage. This case does not militate against the conclusion we have reached in respect of the law now before
us. The court, there, made manifest its view that the
provisions of the so-called taxing act must be naturally
and reasonably adapted to the collection of the tax and
not solely to the achievement of some other purpose
plainly within state power.

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

For the reasons given, we must hold the Child Labor
Tax Law invalid and the judgment of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE dissents.

HILL, JR., ET AL. v. WALLACE, SECRETARY OF
AGRICULTURE, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILINOIS.

No. 616.

Argued January 11, 12, 1922.-Decided May 15, 1922.

1. Members of an incorporated board of trade have standing to
maintain a bill against its president and directors to restrain them
from complying with an unconstitutional act of Congress threatening seriously to impair the value of the board to its members and
the value of their memberships, when the directors have refused
to bring the suit for fear of antagonizing government officials.
P. 60.
2. Section 3224 of the Revised Statutes forbidding suits to restrain
collection of a tax held inapplicable to this case because of its
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances. P. 62. Dodge 'v.
Brady, 240 U. S. 122.
3. The Act of August 24, 1921, c. 86, 42 Stat. 187, known as the
Future Trading Act, is in purpose, in essence and on its face a
regulation of the business of grain boards of trade, with a heavy
penalty, called a tax, imposed on sales of grain for future delivery
to coerce boards and their members' into compliance with the
regulations, and, therefore, it cannot be sustained as an exercise
of the taxing power of Congress, insofar as concerns this so-called
tax and the regulations related to it. P. 66. Child Labor Tax
Case, ante, 20.
4. Neither are the tax and related regulations sustainable under the
Commerce Clause. P. 68.
5. Sales of grain for future delivery made at *Chicago between the
members of a board of trade, to be settled there by off-setting
purchases or by delivery of warehouse receipts for grain theie
stored, are not in themselves interstate commerce and cannot corAe
within the regulatory power under the Commerce Clause unless
they are regarded by Congress, from the evidence before it, Is

