INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
260.

263

Syllabus.

Appellant's postulate is that the quoted provision read
in connection with the compact inhibits each State from
restricting its fishing licenses to citizens of the United
States without consent of the other. If this is unsound,
no foundation exists for his claim and all other questions
may be disregarded.
Considering the object and nature of the compact and
the two Acts of 1915, we cannot conclude that the parties
intended by the identical provision to obligate themselves
to issue any fishing license; the purpose was to limit the
classes of persons who might have them-beyond which
the State might not go. There is no inhibition against
narrowing these classes nor indeed against a refusal to
issue any license. The Oregon legislature acted in harmony with the compact when it excluded aliens; there
was no impairment and the judgment of the court below
must be
Affirmed.

STATE INDUSTRIAL COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF NEW YORK v. NORDENFIOLT CORPORATION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.

No. 625.

Argued March 9, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. When an employee, while working on board a vessel lying in
navigable waters, sustains personal injuries there and seeks damages from his employer, the liability of the employer must be
determined under the maritime law. P. 272.
2. But where the injuries occur while the employee is engaged in
unloading the vessel on land the local law has always been applied.
P. 273.
3. A longshoreman was injured on a dock (an extension of the land)
while engaged about the unloading of a vessel lying in navigable
waters in New York, and died as a result of his injuries. Held,
that his contract of employment did not contemplate any dominant

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Petitioner.

259 U. S.

federal rule cuncerning Iis employer's liability in damages; and
that whether awards under the State Compensation Act are to be
regarded as made upon implied agreement of employer and employee, or otherwise, the act was applicable to the case, since this
would not conflict with any federal statute or work material prejudice to any characteristic feature of the general maritime law.
P. 275. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and other
cases, distinguished.
195 App. Div. 913; 232 N. Y. 507, reversed.

CFRTIoRARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
New York, Appellate Division, entered upon a remittitur
issued from the New York Court of Appeals pursuant to
a decision of the latter court which affirmed a reversal by
the former court of an order made under the State Workmen's Compensation Act by the present petitioner requiring the respondents to pay compensation to the
widow of a longshoreman who died as the result of personal injuries received while in the employ of the respondent Nordenholt. Corporation.
Mr. E. Clarence Aiken, with whom Mr. Charles D.
Newton, Attorney General of the State of New York, was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Ani injury on a dock, pier or wharf is not a maritime
injury and, therefore, not within the admiralty law. If
there is no jurisdiction in admiralty, there is no foundation for denying jurisdiction under the New York Workmen's Compensation Law. The Blackheath, 195 U. S.
361, 365; The Plymouth, 3 Wall. 20, 36; Cleveland Terminal & Valley R. R. Co. v. Cleveland S. S. Co., 208 U. S.
316; Martin v. West, 222 U. S. 191; Atlantic Transport
Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 60; Grant Smith-Porter
Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469; Rorvik v. North Pacific Lumber Co., 99 Ore. 82; Swayne & Hoyt, Inc.
v. Barsch, 226 Fed. 581.
Anderson v. Johnson Lighterage Co., 224 N. Y. 539,
and Keator v. Rock PlasterMfg. Co., 224 N. Y. 540, held

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
263.

265

Argument for Petitioner.

that the Industrial Commission had no jurisdiction where
longshoremen were injured on a pier, because they were
engaged in performing a maritime contract, following
Doey v. Howland Co., Inc., 224 N. Y. 30, in which the
employee concededly met his death upon a steamship and
therefore was subject to admiralty*jurisdiction. In the
Keator Case, subsequent to the decision in 224 N. Y.
540, the Federal District Court dismissed an action in
admiralty, on the ground that the injury was not of a
maritime nature. 256 Fed. 574. But Knickerbocker Ice
Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S. 149, decided after the Keator
and Anderson Cases, sustains the view that injuries to an
employee working under a maritime contract and received
upon a dock might come under the state compensation
law. See pp. 158, 162, 166. The injuries in the Stewart
and Jensen Cases occurred in navigable waters or on board
vessel, and therefore were within the admiralty jurisdiction.
The Court of Appeals erred in basing its decision upon
the fact that remedy for compensation was a matter of
contract. That does not affect the question, provided
there is no admiralty jurisdiction over injuries received
on land. True, the Compensation Law reads its requirements into every contract of employment, but the foundation of that law is not contract but a statutory liability
which takes the place of the common-law liability for
negligence. New York Central R. R. Co. v. White, 243
U. S. 188; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243
U. S. 219.
Even if the employment of a longshoreman is a maritime contract, there is no federal law governing the relation of master and servant in respect of accidents on land;
so that either the state law of torts or the state compensation law is the only remedy. Where the accident
happens on land, there is no admiralty tort, and, therefore, no uniform law which can be applied. Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondents.

259 U. S.

under the admiralty power cannot deprive the States of
the right to legislate in respect of torts on land, and it
has not attempted to exercise that power.
Moreover, the jurisdiction with reference to contracts
is concurrent in the state and admiralty courts, under
the reservation of a common-law remedy where a common-law remedy is applicable. Leon v. Galceran, 11
Wall. 185, 188; Rounds v. Cloverport Foundry Co., 237
U. S. 303; Schoonmaker v. Gilmore, 102 U. S. 118. The
reservation of such remedy is not limited to causes of
action known to the common law at the time of the passage of the Judiciary Act, but includes statutory changes.
Steamboat Co. v. Chase, 16 Wall. 522, 533; Knapp, Stout
& Co. v. McCaffrey, 177 U. S. 638, 644; The Hamilton,
207 U. S. 398, 409.
In States where the compensation remedy is based
upon contract, i. e., where the compensation is elective
rather than compulsory, it is held that injuries occurring
upon the dock are not governed by admiralty law but by
the state compensation law. See Berry v. Donovan &
Sons, Inc., 115 Atl. 250.
The only remedy for death from maritime accidents in
New York is the remedy of the workmen's compensation
law. Shanahan v. Monarch Engineering Co., 219 N. Y.
469; Barnhardt v. American Concrete Steel Co., 227
N. Y. 531. See Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia,257 U. S. 233.
Mr. E. C. Sherwood, with whom Mr.Benjamin C. Loder
and Mr. William B. Davis were on the brief, for respondents.
While admiralty jurisdiction in tort depends on the
locality, in matters of contract it depends on the subjectmatter, the nature and character of the contract. North
Pacific S. S. Co. v. Hall Bros. Co., 249 U. S. 119; Union
Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308.
The work of unloading a vessel is maritime and a contract to do such work is maritime. Atlantic Transport

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
283.

267

Argument for Respondents.

Co. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 62; Southern Pacific Co.
v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart,
253 U. S. 149; Peters v. Veasey, 251 U. S. 121.
The question whether an elective compensation statute
would be effective in the circumstances upon which this
proceeding is based, if the employer and the employee
had elected to accept its provisions, is not here presented.
Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469;
terry v. Donovan & Sons, Inc., 120 Maine, 457; but see
Duart v. Simmons, 231 Mass. 313.
Under the New York Compensation Law the liability
depends not at all upon the will of the parties to the
contract of employment, nor rests upon the theory that
there has been fault on the part of the employer. The
sole basis of liability is the relationship of employer and
employee, plus only the occurrence of an accidental injury arising out of and in the course of the work contemplated by the contract of employment. The liability is
grounded upon the contract of employment itself. It
is purely contractual, and for this reason follows the
parties to the contract when they go into a foreign jurisdiction whose laws regulate the whole question of the
employee's right to recover damages for personal injuries; provided only that the contract of employment was
entered into within the State of New York. Post v.
Burger & Gohlke, 216 N. Y. 544; Klein v. Stoller & Cook
Co., 220 N. Y. 670; Fitzpatrick v. Blackall & Baldwin
Co., 220 N. Y. 671. Cf. Kruse v. Pillsbury, 162 Pac. 891;
Gould's Case, 215 Mass. 480, 482.
The question here involved is therefore closely akin to
that presented in Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S.
"308.
Counsel for the State Industrial Commission contend,
in effect, that the New York Compensation Law ought
to be applied in this case, because in the present state of

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Argument for Respondents.

259 U. S.

the law a cause of action cognizable in admiralty did not
arise upon and on account of the death of Insana. A
somewhat similar idea prevailed in the New York Court
of Appeals in the case of Winfield v. New York Central
R. R. Co., 216 N. Y. 284, in which it was held by that
court that this same statute was applicable to cases
arising out of work done in connection with interstate
commerce, since Congress had not enacted a federal compensation statute; but upon review in this court the error
was pointed out and corrected. 244 U. S. 147. The
absence of such a federal law is not the controlling consideration. It is more pertinent to inquire: Has Congress the power to enact a compensation statute applicable to all cases of accidental injury and death arising
out of and in the course of maritime employment (e. g.,
stevedoring operations), which occur on the dock as well
as to those occurring on the vessel?
The Federal Government's jurisdiction over matters
of a maritime nature is not limited to mere adjudication
of admiralty causes by the courts of the United States,
but resides also in the legislative and executive branches.
Richardson v. Harmon, 222 U. S. 96.
The primary purpose of the constitutional grant of
jurisdiction over maritime affairs and over matters relating to the rights of those engaged in shipping, was to
insure general uniformity in the law-not merely in the
law of torts. Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, 253 U. S.
149, 160; The Lottawanna, 21 Wall. 558, 574; Chelentis
v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372.
The field of this jurisdiction is very broad. It covers
"maritime matters ", "all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States," and the international and interstate relations arising out of maritime operations. Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244
U. S. 205.
In seeking to apply the Jensen decision the problem is
whether the statute works material prejudice to charac-

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
263.

269

Opinion 'of the Court.

teristic features incident to the relationship of employer
and employee created by the maritime contract of employment. It is pertinent to consider the practical results of attempting to apply the statute to a case like
the present one. When we do this we are met at the outset with the consideration that the statute is inapplicable
to any case where the accident occurs on or in the water,
or upon a vessel afloat in the water. The practical results of applying it to all accidents occurring inshore of
the water line would be confusion and conflict, indefensible upon any theory of common sense or practical
utility. The operation of loading or unloading a ship
moored alongside a dock, work which in its very nature is
continuous and indivisible, would be divided physically
in half. One system of law would be applied to one part,
while another system, entirely and fundamentally different, would be applied to the other. Uniformity of the
law, which is frequently spoken of in connection with
these cases, does not lie in that direction.
It does not follow that, if the compensation law is not
applicable, there is no remedy in a case where the accident can be traced to the fault of the employer.
If the maritime law of torts as now understood and
applied by courts of admiralty does not extend to the
subject-matter, the state law of torts may be applicable
to it, even though the particular state statute here in
question may not be so.
MR. JusTIcE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
Sebastiana Insana, mother of Guiseppe Insana, asked
of the New York State Industrial Commission an allowance under the Workmen's Compensation Law on account
of her son's death, which she claimed resulted from accidental injuries received May 15, 1918, in the course of his
employment as a longshoreman by the Nordenholt Cor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

poration then unloading a vessel lying in navigable waters
at Brooklyn. The- cargo consisted of bags of cement.
These were hoisted to the dock and there tiered up by
Insana and other longshoremen. While thus engaged, he
slipped and fell on the dock.
The Commission found "the accidental injuries which
the said deceased sustained while working for his employer
when he fell from the pile of bags to the floor were the
activating cause of his death, and his death was a direct
result of the injuries sustained by him while engaged in
.the regular course of his employment," and awarded compensation as specified by the statute. Upon authority of
Keator v. Rock PlasterManufacturingCo., 224 N. Y. 540,
and Anderson v. Johnson Lighterage Co., 224 N. Y. 539,
the Appellate Diiision reversed the award, 195 App. Div.
913, and the Court of Appeals affirmed its action without
.opinion, October 25, 1921, 232 N. Y. 507.
In both the Keator and Anderson Cases, the employee
suffered injuries on land while helping to unload a vessel
lying in navigable waters. The Court of Appeals held
when so injured he was performing a maritime contract
and that for reasons stated in Doey v. Howland Co., Inc.,
224 N. Y. 30, the Industrial Commission had no jurisdiction to make an award. While making repairs on an
ocean-going vessel lying at the dock in navigable waters,
Doey fell down a hatchway and sustained fatal injuries.
The Appellate Division reversed an award of compensation, and the Court of Appeals affirmed its action, holding
that as Doey was performing a maritime contract the
Commission had no jurisdiction, under the doctrine of
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and Clyde
S. S. Co. v. Walker, 244 U. S. 255. It said (224 N. Y.
35, 36):
"Two questions are presented: (a) Was Doey, at the
time of his death, engaged in the performance of a maritime contract? .
.

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
263.

271

Opinion of the Court.

"If the first question be answered in the affirmative,
then it necessarily follows from the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States above referred to [Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, and Clyde S. S. Co. v. Walker],
that the commission had no authority to make the award
in question. In determining whether a contract be of
maritime nature, locality is not controlling, since the true
test is the subject-matter of the contract-the nature and
character of the work to be done. (Erie R. R. Co. v.
Welsh, 242 U. S. 303.) In torts the rule is different.
There, jurisdiction depends solely upon the place where
the tort was committed, which must have been upon the
high seas or other navigable waters. (Atlantic Transport
Co. of W. Va. v. Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52.) An award under the Workmen's Compensation Law is not made on the
theory that a tort has been committed; on the contrary, it
is upon the theory that the statute giving the commission
power to make an award is read into and becomes a part
of the contract. (Matterof Post v. Burger & Gohlke, 216
N. Y. 544.) The contract of employment, by virtue of
the statute, contains an implied provision that the employer, if the employee be injured, will pay to him a certain sum to compensate for the injuries sustained, or if
death results, a certain sum to dependents. These payments are made irrespective of whether or not the employer was guilty of wrongdoing. It is a part of the compensation agreed to be paid for services rendered in the
course of the employment.
"In the present case, upon the conceded facts, I am of
the opinion that Doey was, at the time he met his death,
engaged in the performance of a maritime contract. His
employer had taken a contract to repair an ocean-going
vessel, preparatory to its taking on a cargo of grain. Doey
was one of several carpenters employed to make the necessary changes. He was, at the time he was killed, engaged
in such work on a steamship then in navigable waters.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

The contract to make the changes was certainly maritime
in its nature. Preparing a steamship to receive a cargo
is as much maritime in nature as putting the cargo on or
taking it from the ship. Nor was the nature of the contract changed in any way because the contractor did not
actually do the work himself, but employed others to do
it for him. Doey's contract of employment was just as
much of a maritime nature as was that of his employer. . .
An award to Newham, injured on the dock while checking freight and doing work similar to that of a foreman of
stevedores was set aside in Newham v. Chile Exploration
Co., 232N. Y. 37 (October 18, 1921). The court said:
"We have held in Matter of Doey v. Howland Co., 224
N. Y. 30, and in Matter of Anderson v. Johnson Lighterage
Co., 224 N. Y. 539, and in Matter of Keator v. Rock
Plaster Manufacturing Co., 224 N. Y. 540, that if the
employee was engaged at the time of his injury in the performance of a maritime contract the state did not have
jurisdiction of the matter and the Workmen's Compensation Law did not apply. This is the deduction which
we have made from the cases of Southern Pacific Co. v.
Jensen, 244 U. S. 205, and Knickerbocker Ice Co. v.
Stewart, 253 U. S. 149."
The court below has made deductions from Southern
Pacifiq Co. v. Jensen; Clyde S. S. Co. v. Walker, and
Knickerbocker Ice Co. v. Stewart, which we think are
unwarranted, and has proceeded upon an erroneous view
of the federal law.
When an employee, working on board a vessel in navigable waters, sustains personal injuries there, and seeks
damages from the employer, the applicable legal principles are very different from those which would control
if he had been injured on land while unloading the vessel.
In the former situation the liability of employer must be
determined under the maritime law; in the latter, no

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO. 273
263.

Opinion of the Court.

general maritime rule prescribes the liability, and the local
law has always been applied. The liability of the employer for damages on account of injuries received on
shipboard by an employee under a maritime contract is
matter within the admiralty jurisdiction; but not so when
the accident occurs on land.
The injuries out of which Southern Pacific Co.v. Jensen
arose occurred on navigable waters, and the consequent
rights and liabilities of the parties were prescribed by the
maritime law. The question there was whether these
rules could be superseded by the Workmen's Compensation statute of the State, and this court held they could
not. In the opinion, citing Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 59, 60, we said, "The work of a
stevedore in which the deceased [Jensen] was engaging
is maritime in its nature; his employment was a maritime
contract; the injuries which he received were likewise
maritime; and the rights and liabilities of the parties in
connection therewith were matters clearly within the admiralty jurisdiction." The doctrine that locality is the
exclusive test of admiralty jurisdiction in matters of tort
had been questioned in the Imbrovek Case, and to show
beyond any doubt that the maritime rules applied as to
Jensen's injuries, we used the quoted language. Later, in
Grant Smith-PorterShip Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S.469, we
said, "The general doctrine that in contract matters admiralty jurisdiction depends upon the nature of the transaction and in toft matters upon the locality, has been so
frequently asserted by this court that it must now be
treated as settled."
In Chelentis v. Luckenbach S. S. Co., 247 U. S. 372,
382,-an action at law seeking full indemnity for injuries
received by a sailor on shipboard-this was said:
"The work about which petitioner was engaged is maritime in its nature; his employment was a maritime contract; the injuries received were likewise maritime and the

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

parties' rights and liabilities were matters clearly within
the admiralty jurisdiction. Atlantic Transport Co. v.
Imbrovek, 234 U. S. 52, 59, 60. And unless in some way
there was imposed upon the owners a liability different
from that prescribed by maritime law, petitioner could
properly demand only wages, maintenance and cure. Under the doctrine approved in Southern Pacific Co.v. Jensen, no State has power to abolish the well recognized
maritime rule concerning measure of recovery and substitute therefor the full indemnity rule of the common law.
Such a substitution would distinctly and definitely change
or add to the settled maritime law; and it would be destructive of the ' uniformity and consistency at which the
Constitution aimed on all subjects of a commercial character affecting the intercourse of the States with each
other or with foreign states.'"
See also Peters v. Veasey, 251 U. S.121; Knickerbocker
Ice Co.v. Stewart, 253 U. S.149.
In Union Fish Co. v. Erickson, 248 U. S. 308, it was
held that when entering into maritime contracts the parties contemplate the system of maritime law, and its well
known rules control their rights and liabilities to the exclusion of state statutes.
In Western Fuel Co.v. Garcia,257 U. S.233, it was held
that where a stevedore's death on a ship within the State
resulted from injuries there received, an admiralty court,
in the absence of federal statute or positive maritime rule,
would recognize and apply the state statute giving an
action for damages on account of death. "The subject is
maritime and local in character and the specified modification of or supplement to the rule applied in admiralty
courts, when following the common law, will not work
material prejudice to the characteristic features of the general maritime law, nor interfere with the proper harmony
and uniformity of that law in its international and interstate relations."

INDUSTRIAL COMM. v. NORDENHOLT CO.
263.

275

Opinion of the Court.

In Grant Smith-Porter Ship Co. v. Rohde, supra, a
carpenter proceeding in admiralty sought damages for
injuries received while at work on a partially completed
vessel lying in the Willamette River. The Oregon Workmen's Compensation Law prescribed an exclusive remedy,
and the question presented was whether to give it effect
would work material prejudice to the general maritime
law. The accident occurred on navigable waters and the
cause was of a kind ordinarily within the admiralty jurisdiction. Neither the general employment contracted for
nor the workman's activities at the time had any direct
relation to navigation or commerce-it was essentially a
local matter-and we said"Under such circumstances regulation of the rights,
obligations and consequent liabilities of the parties, as between themselves, by a local rule would not necessarily
work material prejudice to any characteristic feature of
the general maritime law, or interfere with the proper harmony or uniformity of that law in its international or interstate relations.
. .
"In Western Fuel Co. v. Garcia, we recently pointed
out that as to certain local matters regulation of which
would work no material prejudice to the general maritime
law, the rules of the latter might be modified or supplemented by state statutes. The present case is controlled
by that principle. The statute of the State applies and
defines the rights and liabilities of the parties. The employee may assert his claim against the Industrial Accident Fund to which both he and the employer have contributed as provided by the statute, but he can not recover
damages in an admiralty court."
Insana was injured upon the dock, an extension of the
land, Cleveland Terminal & Valley R. R. Co. v. Cleveland
S. S. Co., 208 U. S.316, and certainly prior to the Workmen's Compensation Act the employer's liability for damages would have depended upon the common law and the

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Syllabus.

259 U. S.

state statutes. Consequently, when the Compensation Act
superseded other state laws touching the liability in question, it did not come into coiflict with any superior maritime law. And this is true whether awards under the act
are made as upon implied agreements or otherwise. The
stevedore's contract of employment did not contemplate
any dominant federal rule concerning the master's liability
for personal injuries received on land. In Jensen's case,
rights and liabilities were definitely fixed by maritime
rules, whose uniformity was essential. With these the
local law came into conflict. Here no such antagonism
exists. There is no pertinent federal statute; and application of the local law will not work material prejudice to
any characteristic feature of the general maritime law.
Compare New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield, 244
U. S. 147.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed and
the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NG FUNG HO, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS UNG KIP,
ET AL. v. WHITE, COMMISSIONER OF IMMIGRATION FOR THE PORT OF SAN FRANCISCO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 176.

Argued March 17, 20, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.

1. Congress has power to order at any time the deportation of aliens
whose presence in the country it deems hurtful; and may do so
by appropriate executive proceedings. P. 280.
2. The Chinese Exclusion Act of May 5, 1892, as amended, makes

it unlawful for a Chinese laborer not in possession of a certificate
of residence to remain in the United States, irrespective of the
legality of his entry. P. 281.

