MILES v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
214.

247

Syllabus.

There was no thought in anyone's mind that the acquisition of stock by the Southern Pacific in the Central
Pacific would be a restraint upon competition, or a detriment to the public interest. The attitude of those concerned in the transaction can be accurately realized by
the reflection that the interest-control, if it may be so
called-that the Southern Pacific acquired in or over the
new company (the Railway Company) was not greater
nor more offensive to law than it had in or over the old
company (the Railroad Company). The latter control
existed from the enactment of the law until it was superseded by the agreement, a period of eight years. And
there was no revulsion against or condemnation of the
control-not by the Government, whose duty it was to
proceed against it if it violated the Anti-Trust Law; not
by any business interest, though for such interest the law
was enacted as a protection. This suit was not brought
until 1914, fifteen years after the agreement, not, however, by the government of the agreement but by the government of a much later time.
I think, therefore, that the decree of the District Court
should be affirmed.
MILES, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND, v. SAFE
DEPOSIT & TRUST COMPANY OF BALTIMORE,
GUARDIAN OF BROWN.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

No. 416. Argued December 16, 1921.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. A preferential right accorded pro rata to the stockholders of a
corporation to subscribe at a stated price for a new issue of shares,
is not a fruit of stock ownership in the nature of a profit, nor a
division of any part of the corporate assets. P. 251.

248

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Counsel for Parties.

259 U. S.

2. Such a right to subscribe for new stock is but a right to participate, in preference to strangers and on equal terms with other
stockholders, in the privilege of contributing new capital called for
by the corporation-an equity which inheres in stock ownership
as a quality inseparable from the capital interest represented by the
old stock. P. 252.
3. Therefore the stockholder's right to take his part of the new
shares-assuming their intrinsic value in excess of the issuing
price--is analogous to a stock dividend and.of itself constitutes no
gain, profit or income taxable without apportionment under the
Sixteenth Amendment. P. 252.
4. But where the stockholder sells and assigns his subscription right,
so much of the proceeds as represents a realized profit over the
dost to the stockholder of what was sold, is taxable income. P. 253.
5. Where a corporation doubled its capital stock and offered the new
stock share for share to its stockholders at a stated price per share,
and a stockholder sold its preference rights, held that the taxable
gain and income was properly computed by adding the subserip.tion price so fixed for each new share to the market value of each
old share as it was before the increase was authorized, taking onehalf of the sum as the cost of each new share, and deducting this
from the sum of the subscription price and the amount received
for each subscription right, the result being the taxable gain or
profit. P. 253.-.
273 Fed. 822, affirmed.
ERRoR to a judgment of the District Court which sustained in part the claim of the defendant in error-in its
action to recover money exacted as an income tax and
paid under protest.

Mr. William C. Herron, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Arthur W. Machen, Jr., for defendant in error.
Mr. Mansfield Ferry, by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
Mr. Arthur M. Marsh,by leave of court, filed a brief as
amicus curiae.

MILES v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
247.

249

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE PiTN-Y

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Defendant in error, a corporation organized under the
laws of Maryland and authorized to act as guardian,
was on January 30, 1919, appointed by the Orphans
Court guardian of Frank R. Brown, an infant whose
father had died intestate about a year before. The son
as next of kin became entitled to 35 shares of the stock
of the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, and they were
transferred to defendant in error as such guardian, and
still are held by it in that capacity. At that time the
capital stock of the insurance company issued and outstanding consisted of 20,000 shares of the par value of
$100 each. Later. in the year that company, under statutory authority, increased its capital stock to 40,000 shares
of the same par value. The resolution of the stockholders sanctioning the increase provided that the right
to subscribe to the new issue should be offered to the
stbckholders at the price of $150 per share, in the proportion of one share of new stock to each share of stock
held by them; subscriptions to be payable in instalments and the directors to have power to dispose of
shares not so subscribed and paid for in such manner as
they might determine to be for the best interests of the
company. In July, 1919, defendant in error, pursuant
to an order of the Orphans Court, sold the subscription
right to 35 shares owned by its ward for $12,546.80,
equivalent to $358.48 per share. The Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, holding that this entire amount was
income for the year, under the provisions of the Act approved February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, assessed
and plaintiff in error collected a tax amounting to
$1,130.77 by reason of it. Defendant in error, having
paid this under protest and unavailingly appealed to the
Commissioner, claiming that none of the amount so re-

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ceived was income within the meaning either of the act or
of the Sixteenth Amendment, brought this action against
the collector to recover the entire amount of tax so assessed and paid. The case was tried before the District
Court without a jury on stipulated facts and evidence.
Plaintiff's extreme contention that the subscription right
to new stock and also the proceeds of the sale of the right
were wholly capital and not in any part subject to be taxed
as income, was overruled upon the authority of Merchants'
Loan & Trust Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509, then recently decided. The trial court, in the second place, held
that, of the proceeds of the sale of the subscription rights,
so much only as represented a realized profit over and
above the cost to plaintiff of what was sold was taxable as
income. In order to compute the amount of the profit,
the court commenced with the value of the old shares
prior to authorization of the stock increase, which upon
the basis of evidence contained in the stipulation was
taken to be what they were assessed at by the United
States for purposes of the estate tax at the death of the
ward's father, viz., $710 per share, and added the $150
necessary to be paid by a stockholder or his assignee in
order to obtain a share of the new stock, making the cost
of two shares (1 old and 1 new) $860 and half of this the
cost of one share.
The sale of the subscription rights at $358.48, the purchaser to pay the issuing company $150 per share, was
treated as equivalent to a sale of the fully-paid shares at
$508.48 each, or $78.48 in excess of the $430 which represented their cost to plaintiff; and this difference multiplied
by 35, the number of shares or rights sold, yielded $2,746.80 as the gain realized out of the entire transaction.
Upon this the court held plaintiff to have been properly
taxable, and upon nothing more; no income tax being
assessable with respect to the 35 shares still retained, because although they were considered worth more, ex-

MILES v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
247.

Opinion of the Court.

rights, than the $430 per share found to be their cost, the
difference could not be regarded as a taxable profit unless
or until realized by actual sale. 273 Fed. 822. To review
the final judgment entered pursuant to the findings and
opinion, which sustained only in part plaintiff's demand
for a refund of the tax paid, the collector of internal revenue prosecuted a direct writ of error from this court under ยง 238 Judicial Code, because of the constitutional questions involved.
There is but one assignment of error, based upon a single exception, which denied that plaintiff was entitled to
recover anything whatever; hence the correctness of the
particular recovery awarded is not in form raised; but the
trial judge, having the complete facts before him, almost
of necessity passed upon them in their entirety in order to
determine, according to truth and substance, how much
of what plaintiff received was, and how much was not,
income in the proper sense; as is proper in a case involving the application of the Sixteenth Amendment (Eisner
v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, 206; UnitedStates v. Phellis,
257 U. S. 156); and in order to review the judgment, it
will be proper for us to analyze the reasoning upon which
it was based.
It is not in dispute that the Hartford Fire Insurance
Company is a corporation of the State of Connecticut and
that the stock increase in question was made under authority of certain acts of the legislature and certain resolutions of the stockholders, by which the right to subscribe
to the new issue was offered to existing stockholders upon
the terms mentioned. It is evident, we think, that such
a distribution in and of itself constituted no division of
any part of the accumulated profits or surplus of the company, or even of its capital; it was in effect an opportunity
given to stockholders to share in contributing additional
capital, not to participate in distribution. It was a rec-

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

ognition by the company that the condition of its affairs
warranted an increase of its capital stock to double the
par value of that already outstanding, and that the new
stock would have a value to the recipients in excess of
$150 per share; a determination that it should be issued
pro rata to the existing stockholders, or so many of them
as would pay that price. This privilege of itself was not
a fruit of stock ownership in the nature of a profit; nor
was it a division of any part of the assets of the company.
The right to subscribe to the new stock was but a right
to participate, in preference to strangers and on equal
terms with other existing stockholders, in the privilege
of contributing new capital called for by the corporationan equity that inheres in stock ownership under such circumstances as a quality inseparable from the capital interest represented by the old stock, recognized so universally as to have become axiomatic in American corporation
law. Gray v. Portland Bank, 3 Mass. 364; Atkins v.
Albree, 12 Allen, 359,361; Jonesv. Morrison,31 Minn. 140,
152-153; Eidman v. Bowman, 58 Ill. 444, 447; Humboldt
Driving Park Association v. Stevens, 34 Neb. 528, 534;
Electric Co. v. Electric Co., 200 Pa. St. 516, 520-523, 526;
Wall v. Utah Copper Co., 70 N. J. Eq. 17, 28, et seq.;
Stokes v. Continental Trust Co., 186 N. Y. 285. Evidently this inherent equity was recognized in the statute
and the resolution under which the new stock here in question was offered and issued.
The stockholder's right to take his part of the new
shares therefore-assuming their intrinsic value to have
exceeded the issuing price-was essentially analogous to a
stock dividend. So far as the issuing price was concerned,
payment of this was a condition precedent to participation, coupled with an opportunity to increase his capital
investment. In either aspect, or both, the subscription
right of itself constituted no gain, profit or income taxable
without apportionment under the Sixteenth Amendment.

MILES v. SAFE DEPOSIT CO.
247.

Opinion of the Court.

Eisner v. Macomber, 252 U. S. 189, is conclusive to this
effect.
But in that case it was recognized (p. 212) that a gain
through sale of dividend stock at a profit was taxable as
income, the same as a gain derived through sale of some
of the original shares would be. In that as in other recent
cases this court has interpreted "income" as including
gains and profits derived through sale or conversion of
capital assets, whether done by a dealer or trader, or
casually by a non-trader, as by a trustee in the course of
changing investments. Merchants' Loan & Trust Co. v.
Smietanka, 255 U. S. 509, 517-520.
Hence the District Court rightly held defendant in error
liable to income tax as to so much of the proceeds of sale
of the subscription rights as represented a realized profit
over and above the cost to it of what was sold. How the
gain should be computed is a matter of some contention
by the Government in this court; but it admits of little
doubt. To treat the stockholder's right to the new shares
as something new and independent of the old, and as if
it actually cost nothing, leaving the entire proceeds of sale
as gain, would ignore the essence of the matter, and the
suggestion cannot be accepted. The District Court proceeded correctly in treating the subscription rights as an
increase inseparable from the old shares, not in the way
of income but as capital; in treating the new shares if and
when issued as indistinguishable legally and in the market
sense from the old; and in regarding the sale of the rights
as a sale of a portion of a capital interest that included the
*old shares. What would have happened had defendant in
error decided to accept the new shares and pay the issuing
price instead of selling the rights is of no consequence; in
that event there would/have been no realized profit, hence
no taxable income. What resulted or might have resulted
to defendant in error's retained interest in the company,
depending upon whether the purchaser exercised his right

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1921.
Opinion of the Court.

259 U. S.

to subscribe or allowed it to lapse, or whether in the latter
event the stock was sold by the directors, is of speculative
interest only. Defendant in error resorted to the market
for the sale of a part of its capital interest, concededly
sold at an advance over cost, and what the profit actually
was is the sole concern here; not whether it might have
been more or less, nor whether the purchaser disposed of
the stock to advantage.
That a comparison of the cost at acquisition and the
selling price is proper under ยง 202 (a) of the act (40 Stat.
1060), where, as here, the property 'was acquired and sold
within the same taxing year, we understand to be conceded. Under the stipulation, the court below was warranted in finding $710 per share to have been the fair
market value of the old stock when turned over to the
guardian, and treating this as its cost to the trust. It was
proper to add to this the $150 required to be paid to the
company and treat the total as the cost to plaintiff of each
two shares one of which was to pass to the purchaser.
This in essence is the method adopted by the Treasury
Department in the case of a sale of dividend stock, in Regulations 45, 1920 ed., Art. 1547, which reads:
"Art. 1547. Sale of stock received as dividend.--Stock
in a corporation received as a dividend does not constitute
taxable income to a stockholder in such corporation, but
any profit derived by the stockholder from the sale of
such stock is taxable income to him. [Following Eisner
v. Macomber, supra.] For the purpose of ascertaining
the gain or loss derived from the sale of such stock, or from
the. sale of the stock with respect to which it is issued, the
cost (used to include also, where required, the fair market
value as of March 1, 1913), of both the old and new shares
is to be determined in accordance with the following rules:
"(1) Where the stock issued as a dividend is all of substantially the same character or preference as the stock
upon which the stock dividend is paid, the cost of each

CARLISLE PACKING CO. v. SANDANGER.
247.

255

Syllabus.

share of both the old and new stock will be the quotient
of the cost, or fair market value as of March 1, 1913, if
acquired prior to that date, of the old shares of stock
divided by the total number of the old and new
shares ... "
That the averaging of cost might present more administrative difficulty in a case more complicated than the
present, as where the old shares were acquired at different
times, is not a sufficient ground for denying the soundness
of the method itself.
Various suggestions, more or less ingenious, as to how the
profit ought to be computed, made by counsel for defendant in error and by an amicus curiae, have been examined
and found faulty for reasons unnecessary to be mentioned.
Upon the whole, we are satisfied that the method adopted
by the District Court led to a correct result.

Judgment affirmed.
CARLISLE PACKING COMPANY v. SANDANGER.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 195. Argued March 24, 1922.-Decided May 29, 1922.
1. According to the general maritime law, a seaman injured in the
service of the ship on navigable waters may recover indemnity
from the ship or her owner if the injuries Nwere in consequence of
her unseaworthiness, but not upon the ground of the negligence of

the master or any member of the crew. P. 258.
2. These rules apply whether the suit be in an admiralty or in a
common-law court. P. 259.
3. Irrespective of negligence, a motor boat is unseaworthy if not
equipped with life preservers or if, when she leaves the dock, on
waters where there prevails a custom to start galley fires by means

of coal oil, a can marked " coal oil " is filled with gasoline. P. 259.
4. Where a seaman recovered a verdict of compensatory damages
for injuries by fire, due to the presence of gasoline in a can usually

containing coal oil employed in starting a stove, and due to the

