UNITED STATES v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO. 495
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. COPPER QUEEN MINING COM-

PANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARIZONA.
14, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.
No. 218. Argued April 11,

In this case there is nothing whatever in the bill of exceptions to show
that the evidence contained therein is all the evidence that was given on
the trial, and the court cannot presume, for the purpose of reversing the
judgment, that there was no evidence given upon which the jury might

rightfully have found the verdict which they did.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. fAarsden . Baurch for the United States.
Mr. William Herring and Mr. Joh. C. ihaney for defendant
inerror.
AMIR. JUSTICE PECKHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

The government has brought this case here by writ of error
for the purpose of reviewing a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Arizona, affirming a judgment entered upon the verdict of a
jury in favor of the defendant. The action was to recover
$183,000, being the alleged value of about 5,900,000 feet of
timber, said to have been wrongfully cut and taken by the defendant from the surveyed and unsurveyed public lands of the
United States in a cafion in the Cbiricahua Mountains, sixty
miles from the town of Wilcox on the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, in the Territory of Arizona.
The answer joined issue upon the allegations of the complaint,
and also set up that the timber was cut by one Ross from public
mineral lands of the plaintiff, and was so cut and removed from
those lands under the authority of the act of Congress of June 3,
1878, 20 Stat. 88, the material portion of which reads as follows:
"That all citizens of the United States and other persons,
bonafide residents of the State of Colorado, or Nevada, or either

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of the Territories of New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, Wyoming,
Dakota, Idaho, or Montana, and all other mineral districts of
the United States, shall be, and are hereby, authorized and permitted to fell and remove, for building, agriculture, mining or
other domestic purposes, any timber or other trees growing or
being on the public lands, said lands being mineral, and not
subject to entry under existing laws of the United States, except
for mineral entry, in either of said States, Territories, or districts
of which such citizens or persons may be at the time bona fide
residents, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary
of the Interior may prescribe for the protection of the timber
and of the undergrowth growing upon such lands, and for other
purposes: P'ovided,The provisions of this act shall not extend
to railroad corporations."
The answer further set up that Ross had good right and lawful authority to cut and remove the timber, and that it was cut
and removed from such lands in good faith, and at the time
that he so cut and removed the timber Ross was a citizen of the
United States of America and a bona~fde resident of the Territory of Arizona.
A trial was had in the District Courtbefore a judge and jury,
and upon the close of the evidence counsel for the government
made a motion that the court instruct the jury to find on the
evidence a verdict for the government, which was refused and
an exception taken.
Among other things the court charged the jury as follows:
"It is also incumbent upon the defendant, in order to avail
itself of* the permission granted by said act of June 3, 1878,
and in order to justify its purchase and consumption of said
timber, to show by a preponderance of the evidence that Daniel
D. Ross, at the time of the cutting and removal of sdid timber
from the lands of the plaintiff, was a citizen of the United
States and was a bona~fde resident of the Territory of Arizona.
And should the evidence in this case fail to establish that, at
the time of the cutting and removal of said timber, the said
Daniel D. Ross was a citizen of the United States, and a bona
fide resident of the Territory of Arizona, you must find for the
plaintiff, without regard to the mineral or non-mineral character
of the land."

UNITED STATES v. COPPER QUEEN MINING CO. 497
Opinion of the Court.

The jury found a verdict for the defendant, after which a
motion for a new trial was made and denied by the trial judge.
An appeal from the judgment entered upon the verdict was
then taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, where it was
affirmed.
It thus appears that the judge held, and so charged the jury,
that Ross, who did the cutting, must have been not only a bona
j&e resident of the Territory, but also a citizen of the United
States, and if he were not, then the plaintiff was entitled to a
verdict. The Government now says there was no evidence in
the case that Ross was a citizen of the United States, nor any
tending to show he was a bona fide resident of Arizona at the
time the cutting was done, and that unless Ross were such
citizen and also a bonajfde resident of the Territory, his cutting
of the timber was wrongful and the Government was entitled
to a verdict. The verdict must be regarded as a finding that
Ross was a citizen of the United States and a bona fide resident
of the Territory when the cutting was done. If he were, there
is no question made about his right to cut. The motion on the
part of the Government at the close of the evidence to direct a
verdict for the Government upon all the evidence, and the exception to the refusal of the court so to do, would raise the
question whether there was any evidence of the citizenship of
Ross and of his residence in the Territory when the cutting was
done, upon which to base a verdict, were it not that the bill of
exceptions lacks an essential statement for that purpose.
It does not appear from the bill that it contains all the evidence given upon the trial. It may be that it does, but we cannot, in the absence of any statement in the bill to that effect,
presume it does for the purpose of reversing the judgment herein,
upon the assumption that the proper construction of the act of
Congress requires such citizenship as well as residence. When
this court is asked to reverse a judgment entered upon a verdict
of a jury, upon a writ of error, upon the ground that there is
absolutely no evidence to sustain it, and the court should have
directed a verdict, the bill of exceptions must embody a statement or there must be a stipulation of counsel declaring that the
bill contains all the evidence given upon the trial so that the
VOL. CLXXXV-32

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

record shall affirmatively show the fact. Russell v. Ely, 2
Black, 575, 580. In the cited case the court, after remarking
that the bill of exceptions did not purport to give all that a
certain witness had testified to, said that according to a wellknown rule the court under such a condition of the record was
bound to presume that there was that in the witness's testimony
which justified the instruction. It was then added by the court:
" What purports to be the entire deposition of Baker is sent up
by the clerk of the District Court, and is printed in the record
before us, and if properly before us might sustain the exception.
But this deposition is not incorporated into the bill of exceptions, nor so referred to in it as to be made a part of the record
of the case. It is only a useless encumbrance of the transcript,
and an expense to the litigating parties." The court thus
refused to look at the deposition which purported to be the
entire deposition of the witness because it was not made a part
of the bill of exceptions.
In this case there is nothing whatever in the bill of exceptions
to show that the evidence contained therein is all the evidence
that was given on the trial, and we cannot presume, for the
purpose of reversing the judgment, that there was no evidence
given upon which the jury might rightfully have found the
verdict which they did.
So, in Texas & Pacific Railroad Company v. Cox, 145 U. S.
593, 606, which was an action to recover damages against the
company for the death of plaintiff's husband, resulting from the
negligence of the company, it was remarked, in regard to the
evidence in the case, that "The bill of exceptions does not
purport to contain all the evidence, and it would be improper
to hold that the court should have directed a verdict for defendants for want of that which may have existed."
It is true there is printed herein, together with the bill of
exceptions, the statement that a motion for a new trial was
made, and the remarks of the court are set forth upon his denial
of the motion. The court said that if the verdict were to beset
aside, it would have to be based solely upon the failure of evidence to show that Ross was a citizen of the United States, but
the court also remarked that at the time when he gave the

SOUTHWESTERN COAL CO. v. McBRIDE.
Statement of the Case.

instruction to the jury, that Ross must have been not only a
bonafide resident of the Territory but a citizen of the United
States, when the cutting of the timber was done, he believed it
to be a true expression of the law applicable to the case under
the pleadings. It is plain that in the view of the judge when
the case was submitted to the jury, he thought there was evidence upon which a jury might find the fact of the citizenship of
Ross. His subsequent statement made upon the refusal to grant
a new trial, which inferentially, perhaps, admits that there was
not sufficient evidence to show that Ross was such citizen, leaves
a foundation for the belief that there was room upon the evidence for a difference of opinion in regard to th'at fact. However
that may be, the record is in such a state that we cannot say
that all the evidence given upon the trial is contained in the bill
of exceptions, and, therefore, we cannot say that there was no
evidence of the residence, and of the citizenship of Ross, upon
which the verdict of the jury might be sustained. If there
were evidence that Ross was a citizen and a bon&fide resident,
it is admitted that the verdict could not be disturbed by this
court. There may have been evidence upon both propositions
sufficient to sustain the verdict.
The judgment must, therefore, be
Affl'wmd.

SOUTHWESTERN COAL COMPANY v. McBRIDE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 230. Argued April 21, 1902.-Decided May 19, 1902.

The act of Congress, approved June 28, 1898, known as the Curtis Act. did
not operate to deprive the lessors of coal mines in the Choctaw Nation of
royalties due and owing to them for coal mined under valid leases, prior
to that date.

THIS litigation was begun in the United States Court for the
Indian Territory, Central Judicial District, sitting at Atoka, by

