OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tiffs have a legal right to recover damages, the decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court will be reversed
and the case remanded to the latter court, with instructions to
set aside its decree and to enter one providing for an ascertainment, in the way courts of equity are accustomed to proceed, of
the damages, if any, which the plaintiffs will suffer by the construction of the dam and the appriopriation of the water, and for
which the defendant is legally responsible, a proposition upon
which we express no opinion, and fixing a time within which
the defendant will be required to pay such sum, and that upon
the failure to make such payment an injunction will issue as
prayed for; and, on the other band, that upon payment a decree will be entered in favor of the defendant. If the plaintiffs
shall prefer to have their damages assessed by a jury, leave may
be given to dismiss the bill without prejudice to an action at law.
Reversed.
MR. JusrTio GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

FILHIOL v. MAURICE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 50. Argued 'March 5, 6, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

In an action of ejectment against private individuals, the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court cannot be maintained on the ground that by averments
that plaintiffs were ousted in violation of the treaty of October 21, 1803,
and of the Fifth Amendment, the provisions of which it was the duty
of the Federal Government to observe, it appeared that the case arose
under the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the United States.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by Ilippolite Filhiol
and others, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, against Charles E. Maurice,
Charles G. Convers and William G. 1Maurice, for the recovery
of a parcel of land in the city of Hot Springs, Garland County,
Arkansas, on the permanent reservation at Hot Springs, de-

FILHIOL v. M1AURICE.
Counsel for Parties.

scribed as Bath house site No. 8, and for rent thereof as damages. Plaintiffs deraigned title as heirs at law of Don Juan
Filhiol, to whom it was alleged the lands were granted February 22, 1788, by the then Spanish governor of the province of
Louisiana, by virtue of which grant said Filhiol became the
owner of a tract of "about three miles square, embracing all
the hot springs in the city of Hot Springs, Garland County,
Arkansas," and including the parcel of land for which plaintiffs
brought suit. The complaint did not aver the citizenship of
plaintiffs or defendants, although the caption described plaintiffs as residents of several States other than Arkansas, but it
was averred as follows: "And for cause of action say that by
the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States
and the third article of the treaty of the United States of
America and the Republic of France, which was ratified on the
21st day of October, 1803, the United States undertook and
agreed to maintain the said Don Juan Filhiol and his heirs in
their right and title to the land in controversy and their full enjoyment of the same, but, in violation of the provisions of said
treaty and without due process of law and in violation of the
Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, defendants did, without condemnation and without compensation
to plaintiffs, on or about the second day of January, 1897,
wrongfully and without right, oust the plaintiffs from the possession of the land in controversy, and for more than two years
last past have held possession and they now hold possession of
the land in controversy wrongfully and without right, and they
refuse to surrender possession of the same to plaintiffs." Defendants demurred to the complaint, on the ground that its allegations did not "constitute a cause of action."
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and plaintiffs electing to stand on their complaint and declining to amend, the
complaint was dismissed with costs. A writ of error directly
from this court was then allowed.
,FY?.William F. lTilas and .MX. Clifford S. Walton for plainoGowan was on their brief. .Mr.
tiffs in error. Jq,. J. H.
for same.
brief
a
filed
XTiller
Branch

OCTOBER TER,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

-ir. Assistant Attorney General _Pradt for defendants in error.

Xi-. George H Gorman was on his brief.

MR. CHIEF

JusrIcE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Writs of error may be sued out directly from this court to
the Circuit Courts in cases in which the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States is involved; or
in which the validity or construction of any treaty made under
the authority of the United States is drawn in question. Act
of March 3, 1891, c. 517, ยง 5, 26 Stat. 826.
And we repeat, as has often been said before, that a case may
be said to involve the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States when a title, right, privilege or immunity is claimed under that instrument, but a definite issue
in respect to the possession of the right must be distinctly deducible from the record before the judgment of the court below
can be revised on the ground of error in the disposal of such a
claim by its decision. The same rule is applicable in respect of
the validity or construction of a treaty. Some right, title, privilege or immunity dependent on the treaty must be so set up or
claimed as to require the Circuit Court to pass on the question
of the validity or construction in disposing of the right asserted.
Muse v. Arlington Iotel Company, 168 U. S. 430, and cases cited.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was not invoked in this
case on the ground of diverse citizenship, but on the ground
that the case arose "under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or treaties made, or which shall be made, under their
authority." And it is settled that in order to give the Circuit
Court jurisdiction of a case as so arising, that it does so arise
must appear from the plaintiff's own statement of his claim.
As the Circuit Court took jurisdiction, which could only have
been on the latter ground, and decided the case upon the merits,
the writ of error was properly taken directly to this court, the
jurisdiction of which is exclusive in such cases. Eluguley .aMn'ffacturing Company v. Galeton cotton Xfills, 184 U. S. 290;
American Sugar Company v. _Stew Orleans, 181 U. S. 277.
We are met, however, on the threshold with the question
whether the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could be main-

FILHIOL v. MAURICE.
Opinion of the Court.

tained on that ground. It does not appear that this question
was raised below, and, on the contrary, the Circuit Court disposed of the case on the merits, that is, assuming jurisdiction,
the Circuit Court decided that the complaint failed to set up a
cause of action.
Did it appear from plaintiffs' own statement that the case
arose under the Constitution or a treaty of the United States ?
We do not think it did.
The Fifth Amendment prohibits the exercise of Federal power
to deprive any person of property without due process of law,
or to take private property for public use without just conpensation; and the treaty of October 21, 1803, provided for the
protection of the inhabitants of the territory ceded in the enjoyment of their property. Public Treaties, 200.
But no right, title, privilege or immunity was here asserted
as derived from the Constitution or the treaty, as against these
private individuals, who were impleaded as defendants, either
specifically, or through averments that plaintiffs were ousted in
violation of the treaty and of the Fifth Amendment, the provisions of which it was the duty of the Federal Government to
observe.
The gravamen of the complaint was that plaintiffs' ancestor
had a perfect title, to which they had succeeded, and the appropriate remedy for illegal invasion of the right of possession
was sought, but it was not made to appear that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction, for the action was not against the United States,
nor could it have been, as the United States had not consented
to be so sued, and so far as defendants were concerned, it was
not charged that they took possession by direction of the Government, and plaintiffs set up no more than a wrongful ouster
by merely private persons, remediable in the ordinary course,
and in the proper tribunals. And see Arkansas v. Coal Comypany, 183 U. S. 185; -Muse v. Arlington Hotel Company, 168
U. S. 430.
The particular grounds of the decision of the Circuit Court on
the merits do not appear, nor is it material, as that court manifestly had no jurisdiction.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded with a direction to
dismiss the cornplaintforwant of jurisdictionwith costs.

