OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

of the corporation deal with it subject to this power.

They

must accept the result of the decision of the state court.
Upon a careful review of all the questions, we are of opinion
that within the authorities cited the claim that any Federal
question exists in this record is so clearly without color of
foundation that this court is without jurisdiction in this case,
and the writ of error is, therefore,
Dismissed.

WOODWORTH v. NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIR CUIT.

222. Argued April 16, 1902.-Decided May 5, 1902.
N11o.
The obligee in a bond which supersedes an order confirming a sale of real
estate, and directs the immediate execution of a deed and delivery of
possession thereof to the purchaser, is entitled, after that order has been
affirmed on appeal, to recover as damages for the breach of the obligation of the bond the value of the use and possession, that is to say in
this case, the rents and profits of the real estate during the time the purchaser is kept out of the possession and use of the real estate by the
supersedeas bond, and the appeal in which it was allowed.

THE question arising for decision in this cause is embodied in
the following certificate from the United Stites Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit:
"The United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit, sitting at the city of St. Louis, Missouri, on this 27th
day of December, 1900, hereby certifies that upon the record
on file in said court in the above-entitled causes, wherein Lucian
Woodworth, Frank D. Brown and George N. Clayton are plaintiffs in error and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company is defendant in error, and Lucian Woodworth, Frank
D. Brown and George N. Clayton are appellants and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company is appellee, and which

WOODWORIH v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

causes are now pending before this court on writ of error to
and appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska, the following facts appear, namely:
"On August 26, 1896, the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company filed its bill of complaint in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Nebraska against Lucian

Woodworth and others to foreclose a mortgage given by Woodworth and his wife to said company, upon certain real estate
situated in the State of Nebraska. A decree on said bill was
entered on December 3, 1896, in said Circuit Court, foreclosing
the mortgage, directing that a master in chancery of the court
sell the premises, and upon confirmation of the sale by the court
execute a deed to the purchaser, and ordering that the purchaser of the premises at said sale be put in possession thereof,
and that any of the parties to said cause who might be in possession of said premises, or any person claiming under them or
either of them, should deliver possession to the purchaser on
production of the master's deed of said premises and a certified
copy of the order confirming the report of said sale, after such
order had become absolute. On February 14, 1898, said real
estate was sold by the master under said decree and was purchased at said sale by the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company for $39,152, a sum less than the amount of the debt
secured by the mortgage and the costs in the suit. The master
made his report of sale to the court on February 15, 1898. On
March 15, 1898, said Circuit Court confirmed said report of sale,
directed that the master convey said real estate to the purchaser
at said sale, awarded a writ of possession to put said purchaser in
possession thereof and rendered a deficiency judgment for the
sum of $2696.90 and interest in favor of the Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Company and against said Woodworth. On
March 30, 1898, said Woodworth was allowed an appeal from
this order of confirmation to the United States Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit and thereafter, on April 8,
1898, he filed his appeal bond in the sum of $5500 with Frank
D. Brown and George N. Clayton as sureties thereon, which
bond was conditioned .for the payment of 'all damages and
costs which it (the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

pany) may incur by reason or on account of said appeal,' and
worked a supersedeas of the order of confirmation. The United
States Circuit Court of Appeals on January 24, 1899, affirmed
said order of confirmation of sale, and on March 29, 1899, its
mandate was duly issued to, and filed in said Circuit Court.
On June 19, 1899, the deficient judgment and the costs taxed
in said cause in the United States Circuit Court of Appeals
we're fully paid and satisfied. On September 16, 1899, the defendant in error, The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance
Company, filed its petition in said Circuit Court against Lucian
Woodworth, and the sureties on said appeal bond, Frank D.
Brown and George N. Clayton, alleging, am ong other things,
that the possession and use of said real estate was withheld
from said company by reason of the superseding of the order
or March 15, 1898, during the pendency of the appeal therefrom, that the value of such use and possession during the pendency of said appeal amounted to $3750, and praying that
Woodworth and the sureties Brown and Clayton be cited to
appear and show cause why judgment should not be summarily
entered against them for said 83750 and interests and costs.
On September 16, 1899, an order to show cause against said
Woodworth, Brown and Clayton was made on said petition as
prayed for therein, and on October 2, 1899, they filed their
showing in resistance to said petition, alleging that I damages
for the rents and profits of the premises, or use and detention
thereof pending appeal, are not recoverable on a supersedeas
bond, and that the bond in question was not given as security,
or for the payment of rents and profits, or the use or detention
of the property pending appeal' and praying for the dismissal
of said petition. On December 9, 1899, said Circuit Court
entered a. judgment and decree against the plaintiffs in error,
Woodworth, Brown and Clayton, as prayed for in said petition.
Afterwards, in due season, to wit, on January 31, 1900, said
last named judgment and decree having been rendered on December 9, 1899, the record in the proceedings on said petition
was removed by writ of error and also by appeal to the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, where
it still remains, the cause being as yet undecided.

WOODWORTH V. MUT. LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"And the said United States Circuit Court of Appeals hereby
certifies, that to the end that it may properly decide said case,
it desires the instruction of the Supreme Court of the United
States upon the following question or proposition of law arising
therein which is duly raised and presented by the record in said
case, said question being as follows:
"Is the obligee in a bond which supersedes an order confirming a sale of real estate and directing the immediate execution
of a deed and delivery of possession thereof to the purchaser,
entitled after that order has been affirmed on the appeal, to
recover as damages for the breach of the obligation of the bond
the value of the use and possession, that is to say in this case,
the rents and profits of the real estate during the time the purchaser is kept out of the possession and use of the real estate
by the supersedeas bond and the appeal in which it was allowed?"
fr. John N. Baldwin for plaintiffs in error and appellants.
Yr. Howard Kennedy, Jr., for defendant in error and appellee.
JUSTIOE WHITE, after making'the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
MR.

The question propounded is to be considered in view of the
following facts: The property affected by the sale under foreclosure was situated in the State of Nebraska, the bond in question was given in a judicial proceeding in a court of the United
States, and-as stated by counsel for plaintiff in error in argument-upon the affirmance of the order of confirmation by the
appellate court, a deed was issued to the purchaser at the sale
under foreclosure and demand was made by him for payment
of the rents, issues and profits sought to be recovered by the action at bar.
As said by this court in Nfalle v. Young, 160 U. S. 624, 637,
in an equity foreclosure in a Circuit Court of the United States,
the requirements of the state law should be complied with and

OCTOBER TERAM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the forms of proceedings thereby prescribed pursued as nearly
as practicable. This appears to have been done in the foreclosure proceedings under review, the decree of confirmation of the
sale not purporting to vest title in the purchaser but containing
a direction for the execution and delivery of a deed. A reference to the statutes of Nebraska, regulating sales under foreclosure, and to the decisions of the courts of that State will conduce to an ascertainment of the nature of the right or title, if
any, vested in a purchaser under a sale thus confirmed.
By section 497a of the Code of Civil Procedure of Nebraska,
it is provided that the owner of any real estate against which a
decree of foreclosure has been rendered, or upon which an execution has been levied to satisfy a judgment or decree of any
kind, may redeem the same from the lien of such decree or levy
at any time before the sale of the same shall be finally confirmed. Section 498 provides for the examination and confirmation of such sale by the court. Section 499 provides that, upon
the confirmation of a sale made of real estate sold on execution,
the sheriff or other officer who made such sale shall make to the
purchaser of such real estate as good and sufficient a deed of
conveyance for the property or land sold as the person against
whom such writ of execution was issued could have made of
the same at the time the land became liable to the judgment, or
at any time thereafter. And section 500 provides, among other
things, that the deed so made shall vest in the purchaser as good
and perfect an estate in the premises as was vested in the execution debtor at or after the time when the land became liable for
the satisfaction of the judgment.
Construing these sections of the code, the Supreme Court of
Nebraska, in Yeazel v. WVkite, (1894) 40 Neb. 432, held that
the owner of real estate sold on execution retains the legal title
thereto, and is entitled, in his own right, to the possession,
rents, profits and usufruct of such real estate, until a final confirmation of the sale. In the course of the opinion the court
said:
"In Bank v. Green, 10 Neb. 130, Lake, S., speaking for this
court, said: 'Under our law governing sales of real property
on execution, the title of the purchaser depends entirely upon

WOODWORTH v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the sale being finally confirmed, and until this is done the
rights of the execution debtor are not certainly divested.'
And in Lamb v. Sherman, 19 Neb. 681, Maxwell, C. J., speaking for this court, on that subject, said: 'A purchaser at execution sale of real estate upon the payment of the purchase
money and confirmation of the sale becomes the equitable
owner of the property, and in a proper case may compel the
issuing of a sheriff's deed to himself.'"
In Claq7k & Leonard Investment Co. v. Way, (1897) 52 Neb.
204, the following among other facts were presented for the
consideration of the court: A junior mortgagee, one of the
defendants in a foreclosure suit instituted by a prior mortgagee to foreclose such prior mortgage as respected unpaid
interest and the amount of certain taxes which had been paid
by the prior mortgagee, became the purchaser at the sale made
under the decree of foreclosure. The sale was confirmed by
the court. Thereupon the mortgagor defendants appealed from
the order of confirmation of sale, but, after the case was pending in the appellate court for about a year, the appeal was voluntarily dismissed. Thereafter, upon the hearing of a motion
to require the purchaser to complete his bid, it was beld-and
the decision in this particular was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Nebraska-that on the dismissal of the appeal from
the order confirming the sale the "title" of the purchaser
related back, for all purposes, at least to the time of such
confirmation, and the purchaser from that time was the owner
of the property and liable for subsequent taxes and interest on
the prior mortgage encumbrance. Further, it was said by the
court: "Undoubtedly the purchaser is entitled to an accounting for rents in such a case from the time of confirmation."
The authorities just reviewed seem to be decisive of the proposition that by the local law of Nebraska, in a case like that at
bar, where, upon confirmation of a sale under a decree of foreclosure, the sale is treated as perfected, credit is given to the
purchaser mortgagee upon the mortgage indebtedness then
due, and judgment passes for a deficiency, but the delivery of
a deed is prevented, by the prosecution of an unfounded appeal from the order confirming the sale, the affirmance by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

appellate court of the order of confirmation of the sale and
the deed subsequently executed vest in the purchaser, by relation, as of the time of the confirmation of the sale, as well
the legal as the equitable title to the land, with the right to
the rents, issues and profits which accrued after the confirmation of the sale. The cases of Orr v. Broad, 52 Neb. 490;
Clark v. Xissouri, Kansas & Texas Trust Co., 59 Neb. 539,

and Iuston v. 6afteld, 57 Neb. 345, are, however, cited as
sustaining a contrary doctrine to that just announced, but, on
careful examination, they will be found not to do so. In each
case the right of a mortoagor to the possession of the land and
the rents and profits thereof was declared to continue until the
confirmation,of a sale on foreclosure. True, in the first two

cases, the right of a purchaser at a sale under execution of a
debtor's interest in land, encumbered by mortgage, to the possession of the land and the rents and profits, as against a mortgage, was in effect declared to be dependent upon the acquisition
of the legal title, by the delivery to the purchaser of a deed of
the premises, following the confirmation of the sale. In each
of the cases, however, a deed had regularly issued, and there
was no claim that the mortgagor or debtor had wrongfully interfered with the passing of the legal title. There was consequently no occasion for considering or applying the doctrine of
relation.
It is, however, strenuously insisted that in Philadel~piaJ
lortgage & Trust Co. v. Gustus, 55 Neb. 436, broad 'expressions
were used in the opinion announced by the court which do not
harmonize with the reasoning contained in the opinion in Clark
v. IFray. But we do not need to pass on this contention. The
point for decision in the Gusts case was whether, under the
statutes of Nebraska, the judgment debtor possessed the right
to redeem from a foreclosure sale during the pendency of an
appeal from the order of confirmation of the sale, and the Nebraska court, in holding that the right to redeem might be
exercised during the pendency of the appeal, said:
"The appeal and bond, if they did not vacate the order of
the District Court, superseded, suspended or rendered it inoperative. The purchaser acquired no rights, and the applicant was

WOODWORTH v. mUT. LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

not divested of his title to and rights in the land. Tootle
v. l1ite, 4 Neb. 401; Bank v. Green, 8 Neb. 297; Bank v.
Gien, 10 Neb. 133. All things remained as before the sale
and subsequent order of the District Court, and will so remain
and exist until a decision in and by this court of the matter appealed. The order of the District Court, by the perfection of the appeal, became ineffectual as to all other purposes for
which it was made, and it certainly does not seem unfair to say
that it was not of force or effect as against the right to redeem,
nor does it appear unwarranted to construe the section of the
code in its reference to time to have indicated the date when
the order shall become forceful and of full operation, which it
cannot until this court has so decreed."
Nowhere, however, in the opinion was any allusion made to
the prior decision in Clark v. MVay, which we are constrained
to think would have been done if the grounds for the decision
in the latter case and the reasoning of the opinion in that case
were deemed to be destructive of the ruling made in the earlier
case. The court in the Gustus case was dealing with a judgment debtor who was seeking the benefit of a remedial statute.
We entertain no doubt that if the Supreme Court of Nebraska
was called upon to determine whether or not a judgment debtor
who had taken an unfounded appeal might rightfully retain the
rents and profits which he had collected while in possession of
the property during the pendency of such appeal, it would, in
order to prevent injustice, apply the doctrine of relation, as
was done in Olark Co. v. Way, and hold that the affirmance of
the order of confirmation of the sale related back and gave
efficacy to the original order of confirmation, as of its date, and
vested in the purchaser, from that time, at least, the equitable
title to the land sold and an equitable right to the thereafter
accruing rents and profits.
The claim in the case at bar is for the rents and profits of the
land, which accrued and were collected by the mortgagor after
the entry of the order of confirmation of the sale. Upon general principles, independent of the decisions of the courts of
Nebraska, we would be constrained to hold that, under the circumstances present in the case at bar, as we have heretofore

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

detailed, the purchaser acquired as against the mortgagor, by
relation, both the legal and equitable title to the laud purchased,
at least as of the date of the order of confirmation of the sale.
This being the case, we come to consider the question as to
whether recovery may be had upon a supersedeas bond given
in a judicial foreclosure proceeding pending in a court of the
United States, of the rents and profits which accrued and were
collected by the judgment debtor after the confirmation of the
sale of the mortgaged property.
It has been strenuously urged that a negative answer to the
question just stated is rendered necessary by the decision of this
court in Kountze v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S. 378. This contention is based upon the following grounds: 1, That no distinction can logically be made between an appeal from an order
confirming a sale had under a decree in foreclosure, as in the
case at bar, and an appeal from a decree ordering a sale, as in
the ifountze case; and, 2, That the mortgagor, after the sale
of the land under a decree in foreclosure, is the owner of the
rents and profits of such land until final approval by the court
of the sale and the execution and delivery of a deed by the
master. Of course, if the assumption existing in the second
ground be correct, that is, that the mortgagor, despite the confirmation of the sale, is entitled in his own right to the rents
and profits subsequently accruing, there would be plausibility
in the claim that there was no logical distinction between an
appeal from a decree of sale and an appeal from an order of
confirmation of the sale. But the assumption in question, as
we have shown, is not well founded, and this being the case, it
results that there is a substantial distinction in the character of
the two classes of decrees. In the one case, the title to the
land, both legal and equitable, continues in the mortgagor; in
the other, at least the equitable title to the land and its rents,
issues and profits vested in the purchaser by the sale under the
decree at the time of the confirmation of such sale. In this
aspect, following the reasoning in the Eountze case, the appropriation by the mortgagor, during the pendency of a wrongful appeal by such mortgagor from the order confirming the
sale, of the rents, issues and profits of the land, which equitably

WOODWORTH v. MUT. LIFE INS. CO.

Opinion of the Court.

belonged to the purchaser, was "damage" within the meaning
of the statute and the condition of the bond. True, in the
Kountze case the mortgagee purchaser was denied the right to
recover the rents and profits which had been collected by the
mortgagor intermediate the decree of sale and the actual sale
of the property. But this was, because the appeal was from a
decree ordering a sale, and it was held the mortgagor was not
divested of the right to collect and retain the rents and profits
of the land before a final determination of a right to sell and a
sale made accordingly.

The taking by the mortgagor of that

which belonged to him and not to the mortgagee it was decided
did not constitute an injury to the latter. The court, however,
in its reasoning, made plain the fact that where, as in the case
at bar, the real owner of the rents and profits of real estate, in
whom the legal as well as equitable title had become vested before
action brought upon the bond, was the party for whose benefit
the bond on appeal was given, and the effect of the giving of
such bond was to enable the mortgagor, the principal in such
bond, to appropriate rents, issues and profits of the land during
the pendency of the appeal, which equitably belonged to the purchaser, that appropriation constituted "damage" to the obligee
in the bond, within the meaning of the condition for payment
of "all damages and costs which it may incur by reason or on
account of said appeal."
Te question certified must be answered in the afflrmative, and
it is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN

and MR. JusTIcE

in the decision of this cause.

BREWER

took no part

