OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

MICHIGAN SUGAR COMPANY v. MICHIGAN.
ERROR TO THE SUPRE3E COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.
No. 199.

Argued March 20, 21, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

The rule reiterated that this court has no jurisdiction under the third division of section 709 of the Revised Statutes unless tile party seeking the
writ of error has unmistakably invoked for the protection of an asserted
right, title, privilege or immunity, the Constitution, or some treaty, statute, commission, or authority, of tile United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.l&. Tiwmas A. E'. Tlfeadock for plaintiff in error.
C. WVeadock was on his brief.

.MX. John

.Jfr. Charles D. Joslyn and _rl'. Horace X. Oren for defendant in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a petition for mandamus filed in the Supreme Court
of the State of Mlichigan by the Aichigan Sugar Company
against the Auditor General of that State, praying that he might
be commanded to draw his warrant or warrants on the treasury
of the State in favor of petitioner, for certain amounts alleged
to be due to it for bounty earned for beet sugar manufactured
from sugar beets raised in the year 1898, in accordance with
the provisions of an act of the legislature of Michigan of 1897.
'Reliance was also placed on an act of 1899 asserted to have
made appropriations to pay such bounties. The Auditor General in response to a rule to show cause insisted that the act of
1897 was in contravention of the state constitution, and also
that no appropriations had been made out of which the alleged
bounties could be paid.
The Supreme Court of Michigan held that the act of 1897

MICHIGAN SUGAR CO. v. MICHIGAN.
Opinion of the Court.

was unconstitutional, and that it could not be and was not
helped out by the act of 1899, which made no specific appropriations "by which the sugar bounties could be paid ;" and denied
the application. 12-4 Mich. 674. Thereupon this writ of error
was allowed; and errors were assigned to the effect that the
judgment of the Supreme Court was in conflict with the prohibitions of the Constitution of the United States in respect of
"impairing the obligation of contracts;" deprivation of property without due process of law; and denial of the equal protection of the laws.
The petition for mandamus nowhere set up that the State of
Michigan had passed any law impairing the obligation of a
contract with relator, and nowhere invoked the protection of
any provision of the Federal Constitution, nor was any issue in
relation thereto raised upon the record.
It is clear that the case did not fall within either the first or
second of the classes of cases in which the judgment of a state
court may be reexamined under section 709 of the Revised
Statutes. The validity of no treaty or statute of, or authority
exercised under, the United States was drawn in question; nor
was the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under,
the State drawn in question on the ground of repugnancy to
the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, and its
validity sustained. And as to the third class, no right, title,
privilege or immunity was specially set up or claimed as belonging to relator under the Constitution, or any treaty or
statute of, or commission held, or authority exercised under,
the United States; and denied.
The Supreme Court of the State did not refer to the Federal
Constitution or consider and decide any Federal question. For
aught that appears, the court proceeded in its determination of
the cause without any thought that it was disposing of such a
question.
The rule is firmly established, and has been frequently reiterated, that the jurisdiction of this court to reexamine the
final judgment of a state court, under the third division of section 709, cannot arise from mere inference, but only from averments so distinct and positive as to place it beyond question
VOL. CLXXxv-8

OCTOBER TERHMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

that the party bringing the case here from such court intended
to assert a Federal right. The statutory requirement is not
met unless the party unmistakably declares that he invokes for
the protection of his rights, the Constitution, or some treaty,
statute, commission or authority, of the United States. Applying this rule to the case before us, the writ of error cannot be
maintained.
TrFit of error dismissed.
MiR. JUSTICE BROWN took

no part in the decision.

EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v.
EBAUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 177. Argued Barch 3, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

This case was presented to the court below with the facts found by the
trial court, among which were that under the circumstances it was the
law of New York that the plaintiff in error could not be heard to say
that its promise was ultra vires; and it was decided that such findings
of fact were conclusive upon it. This court holds that the law of New
York was a necessary element in the propositions and in it was involved
not only what the statutory law is, but what its application is under the
courts of that State, both of which were facts to be proved, and the finding upon which was binding on this court.

THE plaintiff in error is a building and loan association incorporated under the laws of the State of New York, and has its
principal place of business in the city of Syracuse in that State.
The defendant in error is a shareholder in said corporation,
and brought this action in the Court of Common Pleas of the
county of Green ville, State of South Carolina, for the par value
of his stock, to wit, the sum of $1000, or, failing in that, for the
sum of $580, the money paid in by him.
By agreement of counsel all issues of law and fact were referred to a referee. The referee took testimony, and reported

