OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

FOX YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 478. Argued January 7, 1902.-Decided May 5, 1902.

The power to exclude or expel aliens is vested in the political departments
of the Government, to be regulated by treaty or by act of Congress, and
to be executed by the executive authority according to such regulations,
except so far as the judicial department is authorized by treaty or by
statute, or is required by the Constitution, to intervene. And this is true
of the privilege of transit.
By the treaty between the United States and China, of 1894, the privilege
of transit across the territory of the United States could only be enjoyed
subject to such regulations of the Government of the United States as
might be necessary to prevent the privilege from being abused.
The treaty, in recognizing the privilege and providing that it should continue, proceeded on the ground of its existence and continuance under
governmental regulations, and no act of Congress was required to carry
it into effect.
Under existing regulations the action of the collector of customs in refusing transit cannot be interfered with by the courts.

THIS was a petition to the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California for a writ of habeas corpus. The petition represented that the petitioner was a citizen
of the Empire of China, and a resident of Guatemala in the
Republic of Mexico, and was travelling to that place when interrupted in his journey as afterwards described; that on August 24, 1901, he purchased, for the sum of 183 Mexican dollars,
from the agent of the Japanese steamship company of the Toyo
Kisen Kaisha at Hong Kong in China, passage thence to San
Jos6 de Guatemala in Mexico, and received from said agent a
ticket for passage on the steamship Nippon Maru to the port
of San Francisco, and an order upon the San Francisco agent
of said company for a steerage ticket from San Francisco to
San Jos6 de Guatemala; that upon arriving in the port of San
Francisco he was, on September 19, 1901, examined by a customs inspector, his baggage and private papers opened, and his

FOK YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

person searched; that, after the examination of the petitioner,
the collector of customs at the port made an order of deportation, denying him the privilege of transit, and he was, by virtue
of that order, detained by the agent of the steamship company
in a frame building on the Pacific Mail dock at San Francisco,
and, unless released by the court, would be deported and sent
back to China; that the petitioner was not making application
to enter the United States, or to pass in transit through the territory thereof, but was merely a passenger en route for a foreign port, and touching at the port of San Francisco while on
his journey along the usual course of travel, and for the pur-

pose of transshipping to another vessel; that the order under
which he was held was illegal and void, and not authorized by
any law of the United States, or by any treaty between the
United States and the Empire of China; and that the collector
of customs had no authority under the law to examine or to
confine the petitioner.
The District Attorney, by leave of court, intervened in behalf of the United States, and suggested that the petitioner was
a native of the Empire of China, and a laborer by occupation,
and before the filing of his petition arrived at San Francisco
from Hong Kong in transit, through the territory of the United
States, for the Republic of Mexico; that the collector of customs for the port of San Francisco, after careful and due investigation, had decided that he was satisfied that the petitioner
did not intend in good faith to continue his voyage through the
territory of the United States to the Republic of Mexico, and
had for that reason denied him the privilege further to continue
his journey through the territory of the United States, and had
ordered him deported to China; and that the court had no jurisdiction over the person of the petitioner, or over the subject
matter of this proceeding.
The parties submitted the case to the decision of the court
upon the following facts: "The petitioner is a subject of the
Empire of China. He arrived at the port of San Francisco on
the Japanese steamship Nippon Maru, the manifest of which
vessel states that he intended to go to San Jose de Guatemala.
Petitioner herein also alleges that that was his intended destina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

tion.

The collector of customs at the port of San Francisco

did, on September 23, 1901, deny the petitioner the privilege
of further pursuing his journey to his alleged point of destination. The petitioner has a ticket, or an order for a ticket, for a
through passage from Hong Kong, China, to San Jose de Guatemala by steamer. The petitioner is now held by W. H. Avery,
agent for the Tapanese steamship company, by virtue of an order issued by the collector of customs for the port of San Francisco, directing him to retain the person of the petitioner in his
custody, and deport him to China."
The court ordered the petition and the writ of habeas corpus
to be dismissed, and the petitioner remanded to custody; and
he appealed to this court.
Mr. .axwell

Evarts for appellant.

.Xr. Assistant Attorney General Hoyt for appellee.
M

.CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts upon which the parties submitted the case to the
decision of the court below do not include, on the one hand, the
statement of the petition that the petitioner was examined by a
customs inspector, his baggage and papers opened, and his person searched; nor, on the other hand, the statements in the
intervention of the United States, that the petitioner was a laborer by occupation, and that the decision of the collector for
his detention and deportation was made after due and careful
investigation, and for the reason that he was satisfied that the
petitioner did not intend in good faith to continue his voyage
through the territory of the United States to the Republic of
Mexico. But the facts agreed are simply that the petitioner
was a subject of the Empire of China, arriving at the port of San
Francisco, whose intended destination, as appeared by the manifest of the vessel in which he arrived, and by his own allegation, was San Jos6 de Guatemala in the Republic of Mexico,
and who had a ticket, or an order for a ticket, for a through
passage from Hong Kong, China, to San Jos6 de Guatemala by

FOK YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

steamer; and that the collector of customs at San Francisco
denied him the privilege of further pursuing his journey to his
alleged point of destination, and issued an order directing him
to be detained and deported to China.
The whole question in the case, therefore, is whether this
denial and order of the collector were authorized by law.
Before the treaty of 1894 between the United States and
China, the privilege of transit of Chinese persons across the
territory of the United States was not specifically mentioned in
any treaty or statute, except in the last clause of section 8 of
the act of September 13, 1888, c. 1015, by which the Secretary
of the Treasury was authorized to make, and from time to time
to change, "such rules and regulations, not in conflict with this
act, as he may deem necessary and proper to conveniently secure to such Chinese persons as are provided for in articles second and third of" a treaty between the United States and
China, signed March 12, 1888, but not then ratified, the rights
therein mentioned and such as shall also protect the United
States against the coming and transit of persons not entitled to
the benefit of the provisions of said articles." 25 Stat. 478.
As that treaty was never ratified, it may be doubtful whether
that section ever took effect. See Li Sing v. United States,
180 U.-S. 486, 490; United States v. Gee Lee, 50 Fed. Rep. 271.
But such privilege of transit was recognized by successive
Attorneys General from 1882 to January, 1894; (17 Opinions,
416, 485; 18 Opinions, 388; 19 Opinions, 369; 20 Opinions,
693;) and it was regulated by orders of the Treasury Department.
By regulations of Secretary Folger of January 23, 1883,' it
was provided that "where a Chinese consul resides at the port
of landing or entrance into the United States by any Chinese
laborer claiming to be merely in transit through the territory
of the United States in the course of a journey to or from other
countries, the certificate of such Chinese consul, identifying the
bearer by name, height, age, etc., so far as practicable, and showing the place and date of his arrival, the place at which he is to
leave the United States, the date when his journey is to begin,
and that it is to be continuous and direct, shall be accepted as

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

prima facie evidence;" that, "in the absence of such certificate, other competent evidence to show the identity of the person, and the fact that a bonafide transit only is intended, may
be received;" and that "the production of a through ticket
across the whole territory of the United States intended to be
traversed may be received as competent proof, and should be
exhibited to the collector and verified by him. Such tickets
and all other evidence presented must be so stamped or marked
and dated by the customs officer as to prevent their use a second time."
By regulations of Secretary McCulloch of January 14, 1885,
the regulations of January 23, 1883, "relative to the transit of
Chinese laborers through the territory of the United States, will
be applied to all Chinese persons intending to so go in transit
through the United States;" and "Chinese persons who may
be compelled to touch at the ports of the United States in
transit to foreign countries may be permitted to land under the
regulations of January 23, 1883, so far as the same may be applicable, such persons to take passage by the next vessel leaving
for their destination, or the voyage of which may form part of
the route necessary to carry them to their destination."
By regulations of Secretary Windom of September 28, 1889,
"any Chinese laborer claiming to be in transit through the territory of the United States, in the course of a journey from and
to other countries, shall be required to produce to the collector
of customs at the first port of arrival a through ticket across
the whole territory of the United States intended to be traversed, and such other proof as he may be able to adduce, to satisfy the collector of the fact that a bonaflde transit only is intended; and such ticket and other evidence presented must be
so stamped, or marked, and dated by the customs officer as to
prevent their use the second time;" a bond in the penal sum
of $200 was required for each Chinese laborer, "conditioned
for his transit and actual departure from the United States
within a reasonable time, not exceeding twenty days from the
date of arrival;" and previous regulations on the subject were
rescinded.
By article 3 of the treaty between the United States and China

FOK YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of March 17, 1894, it is "agreed that Chinese laborers shall continue to enjoy the privilege of transit across the territory of the
United States in the course of their journey to or from other
countries, subject to such regulations by the Government of the

Unifed States as may be necessary to prevent said privilege of
transit from being abused." 28 Stat. 1211. That article was
also in the unratified treaty of 1888.
On December 8, 1900, Secretary Gage issued regulations
amendatory of the regulations of September 28, 1889, and addressed "to collectors of customs and all other officers charged
with the enforcement of the Chinese exclusion laws," the material parts of which were as follows:
"Complaints having reached the Department of attempted
violations of the laws enacted for the exclusion of Chinese by
those who have been allowed to pass through the United States
to foreign territory, the following rules are hereby adopted for
your guidance in granting permission for such transit:
"Any Chinese person arriving at your port, claiming to be
destined to some foreign country, and seeking permission to pass
through the United States, or any portion thereof, to reach such
alleged foreign destination, shall be granted permission for such
transit only upon complying with the following conditions:
"1. The applicant shall be required to produce to the collector of customs at the first port of arrival a through ticket
across the whole territory of the United States (and to his or
her alleged foreign destination according to the steamship manifest) intended to be traversed, and such other proof as he (or
she) may be able to adduce, to satisfy the said collector that
a bonafide transit only is intended; and such ticket and other
evidence presented must be so stamped, or marked, and dated
by the said collector, or such officer as he shall designate for
that purpose, as to prevent their use a second time; but no
such applicant shall be considered as intending bona fide to
make such transit only, if he (or she) has previously, on same
arrival, made application for and been denied admission to the
United States.
"2. The applicant in each case, or some responsible person
on his (or her) behalf, or the transportation company whose

OCTOBER TERMA,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

through ticket he (or she) holds, shall furnish to the said collector of customs a bond in a penal sum of not less than $500,
conditioned for applicant's continuous transit through, and actual departure from, the United States within a reasonable time,
not exceeding twenty days from the date of arrival at said
port."
These regulations repeat the requirements of those of 1889,
(which took the place of previous regulations,) that evidence
must be produced to satisfy the collector "that a bonaftde transit only is intended." Clearly in the absence of provision for
review his decision is final.
The doctrine is firmly established that the power to exclude
or expel aliens is vested in the political departments of the
Government, to be regulated by treaty or by act of Congress,
and to be executed by the executive authority according to
such regulations, except so far as the judicial department is authorized by treaty or by statute, or is required by the Constitution, to intervene. Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S.
698 ; -Lem Aoon Sing v. United States, 158 U. S. 538; Li Sing
v. United States, 180 U. S. 486.
And as a general proposition this must be true of the privilege of transit. The underlying principle is thus stated by
Kent, (vol. 1, p. 35): "Every Nation is bound, in time of
peace, to grant a passage, for lawful purposes, over their lands,
rivers, and seas, to the people of other States, whenever it can be
permitted without inconvenience; and burthensome conditions
ought not to be annexed to the transit of persons and property.
If, however, any government deems the introduction of foreigners, or their merchandise, injurious to those interests of their
own people which they are bound to protect and promote, they
are at liberty to withhold the indulgence. The entry of foreigners and their effects is not an absolute right, but only one
of imperfect obligation, and it is subject to the discretion of

the government which tolerates it."
In short, the privilege of transit, although it is one that should
not be withheld without good cause, is nevertheless conceded
only on such terms as the particular Government prescribes in

FOK YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

view of the well-being of its own people. If then these regulations have the force of law, they bind the courts.
The first article of the treaty of December 8, 1894, provides
that" the coming, except under the conditions hereinafter specified, of Chinese laborers to the United States shall be absolutely
prohibited." The second paragraph of article three reads: "It
is also agreed that Chinese laborers shall continue to enjoy the
privilege of transit across the territory of the United States in
the course of their journey to or from other countries, subject
to such regulations by the Government of the United States as
may be necessary to prevent said privilege of transit from being abused."
We regard this as explicitly recognizing existing regulations,
and as assenting to their continuance, and to such modification
of them as might be found necessary to prevent abuse. it dealt
with the subject specifically, and was operative without an act
of Congress to carry it into effect.
The treaty of 1880, 22 Stat. 826, in declaring in respect of
the coming of Chinese laborers into this country that the Government of the United States might "regulate, limit or suspend
such coining or residence," did not refer to the privilege of
transit, and, as it was not self-executing, the act of May 6, 1882,
was passed to carry the stipulation into effect. But the provision of this treaty applicable here, in recognizing the privilege
of transit and providing that it should continue, proceeded on
the ground of its existence and continuance under governmental
regulations, and no act of Congress was required. Zee Gon
Yung v. United Statme, 111 Fed. Rep. 998.
Nor is the provision open to the ingenious construction suogested, that it is only after transit has commenced that the
privilege may be abused. The abuse of the privilege might
consist in the use of passage across the country to reach a point
from which to effect an entrance into it, contrary to law. The
journey contemplated would in effect be continuous, and the
intermediate destination could not absolve from the guilt involved in the effort to attain that forbidden ulterior destination.
Such an abuse of the privilege could only be prevented by arresting the journey on the threshold.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

Necessarily the collector's decision could not be controlled
by the bare production of a through ticket to a point in foreign
territory. The very question to be determined is good faith in
the transit, and good faith would be lacking if that transit were
merely a means of effecting admission into the United States.
And the decision of the Treasury Department as to the right
of admission is made final by statute.
For instance, it is difficult, if not impossible, to police effectively the long frontier between the United States and Mexico,
and if, in a given case, a Chinese laborer arrives at San Francisco ostensibly bound to a port in Mexico, but going there for
the purpose of crossing thence into this country, this would be
an abuse of the privilege, and denial of transit would be justified. And this, in cases where such is the intent and purpose,
is in accordance with the terms of the treaty, and not in the
exercise of a general power to prohibit that which the treaty
permits.
By the act of August 18, 1894, 28 Stat. 390, the decision of
the proper executive officer, if adverse to an alien's admission,
was made final unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury.
That act came under consideration in Lem fKoonSing v. United States, 158 U. S.538. Petitioner contended that while the
immigration officers had authority to exclude aliens from coming into the United States, yet if an alien was entitled of right
to enter the country, and was nevertheless excluded by such
officers, the latter exceeded their jurisdiction, and the courts
might intervene; but Mr. Justice IHarlan, speaking for the
court, said: "That view, if sustained, would bring into the
courts every case of an alien who claimed the right to come
into the United States under some law or treaty, but was prevented from doing so by the executive branch of the Government. This would defeat the manifest purpose of Congress in
committing to subordinate iminigration officers and to the Secretary of the Treasury exclusive authority to determine whether
a particular alien seeking admission into this country belongs
to the class entitled by some law or treaty to come into the
country, or to a class forbidden to enter the United States.

FOK YUNG YO v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Under that interpretation of the act of 1894 the provision that
the decision of the appropriate immigration or customs officers
should be final, unless reversed on appeal to the Secretary of
the Treasury, would be of no practical value."
So in the case before us, the treaty manifestly operated to
commit the subject of transit to executive regulation and determination; and by the then, as well as the present, regulations,
the final decision as to permitting transit was devolved on the
collector of customs, and no appeal to the Secretary was provided for. In appears from the official documents referred to
on the argument that the Treasury Department has "held that
neither the treaty nor the laws relating to the exclusion of
Chinese, either expressly or by implication, give to Chinese persons refused the privilege of transit the right of appeal;" but
possession of the power to grant an appeal, or to supervise the
action of the collector in some other appropriate way, in circumstances demanding intervention, has not been disavowed.
This case is an attempt to transfer the inquiry from the collector to the courts. Congressional action has placed the final
determination of the right of admission in executive officers,
without judicial intervention, and this has been for many years
the recognized and declared policy of the country. The regulations to prevent abuse of the privilege of transit have been
and are intended to effectuate the same policy, and recourse to
the courts by habeas corpus to determine the existence of such
abuse appears to us equally inadmissible.
The record does not present a case of regulation or action in
contravention of the Constitution, and we think that, upon the
admitted facts, the orders of the collector cannot be held to
have been invalid.
Order affrmed.
M

.JUSTICE BREWER and

VOL. CLxxxv-20

MR.JUSTICE

PEOKEAM

dissented.

