UNITED STATES v. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PENDELL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLADIS.
No. 211.

Submitted Mlarch 20, 1902.-Decided April 21,1902.

This was an appeal from a decree of the Court of Private Land Claims,
confirming the title of the appellees to a tract of land in New Mexico.
Held, that in the absence of any sufficient attack upon the record, or of
any evidence on the part of the Government going to disprove or discredit the averments therein, it formed enough of a basis for the finding
of the court below that there was a grant made as stated in its findings,
and that such grant and the record thereof in the archives had been destroyed under the circumstances stated.
The treaty of December 30, 1853, between the United States and Mexico,
and the act of Congress in support of it, were not intended to debar parol proof of tie existence and of the contents of a grant which had been
destroyed under the circumstances detailed, or that, under such circumstances, a presumption that the grant had been recorded could not be
indulged.
In this case the evidence of possession was sufficient, in connection with
the other evidence, upon which to base a presumption that the petitioner
had a title to the land, which should be confirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion of the court.

-Mr. Solicitor General, Mr. 3fatthew G. Reynolds and Mr.
William H. Pope for appellant.
.21!>. T. B. Catrom for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE PEOKHAm

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Government appeals in this case from a decree of the
Court of Private Land Claims in favor of the appellees, confirming their title to a certain tract of land in the county of Dona
Ana, Territory of New Mexico, alleged in the petition to contain four square leagues. The petition of the appellees alleged
the making of a grant to their predecessors prior to the year
1790 of a tract of land known as Santa Teresa; that the grant

OCTOBER TERMAK, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

was a good and valid one, and the grantee entered upon and
took possession of the same, and that he and his heirs and
assigns continued in peaceable possession up to and after the
ratification of the treaty of December 30, 1853, between the
governments of Mexico and the United States, by the terms of
which treaty territory, including the Santa Teresa grant, was
transferred to the sovereignty of the United States. The petition then alleged that in the year 1846, while the original documents of title were in existence in the town of Paso del Norte,
in the State of Chihuahua, where the heir resided, the place
was occupied by the military forces of the United States, and
the original documents of title and the official registry where
they were recorded were destroyed by the American forces;
that proceedings had been taken on January 7, 1853, for the
purpose of perpetuating evidence of the title, and in accordance
with which the judicial authorities reestablished the boundaries
and monuments of the grant, and placed the heir in formal and
legal possession of the same on January 16, 1853. A certified
record of these proceedings was alleged to be on file in the office
of the United States surveyor general for the Territory of New
Mexico, a duplicate copy of the same in the Spanish language,
with a translation also in duplicate, being filed with the petition.
The boundaries of the grant were stated, and the petitioners
averred that they were the owners in fee of the land contained
in the grant by inheritance and purchase from the original
grantee, Francisco Garcia, and that the title of the original
grantee, his heirs and assigns, in and to the grant was complete
and perfect at the date when the United States acquired sovereignty over the Territory of New Mexico, and also at the
time of the ratification of the treaty between the United States
and the Mexican Republic, known as the Gadsden purchase, on
December 30, 1853; and it was averred that the land had been
in the peaceable and undisturbed possession of the original
grantee, his heirs, etc., from the date of the making of the grant
to the present time; and that there was no person in possession
of the land claiming the same adversely to the petitioners or
otherwise than by lease or permission from them.
The answer of the United States denied all the material

UNITED STATLES il. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

averments of the petition, and denied that the petitioners were
entitled to the relief or any part thereof prayed for, and asked
that the petition should be dismissed. Subsequently certain
persons, claiming adversely to the petitioners, entered their appearance by their solicitor as defendants.
The principal issue in the case in regard to the boundaries of
the alleged grant related to the southern line, the petitioners
claiming that it was located at the international boundary line,
while the Government claimed it was above the Southern Pacific Railroad bridge, a considerable distance north of that line.
The interests of the individual defendants, who were co-defendants with the Government, were upon the tract of land lying
between the international boundary and the line of the Southern
Pacific Railroad bridge. The decree of the court fixed the south
boundary at the point contended for by the Government, thus
leaving the lands in which the individual defendants were interested untouched, and as this location of the line has been acquiesced in by the petitioners, the case no longer has any bearing upon the interests of those defendants.
The decree of the court was in favor of the petitioners, establishing their grant, with the southern line thereof as stated,
and found that the petitioners were the grantees or assignees
of the title of the original grantee, Garcia. Two of the judges
dissented from the opinion and judgment of the court upon
grounds stated in their opinions. The court made the following
findings of fact:
"That prior to the year 1790, in accordance with the petition
of Francisco Garcia, a citizen of the province of New Mexico
and Kingdom of Spain, then and there duly made and presented to the duly authorized representatives of the King of
Spain in and for New Biscay, which is now the State of Chihuahua of the Mexican Republic, the said authorities and representatives of the Crown and the King of Spain, by virtue
of the power and authority in them vested as such, and in accordance with the laws, usages and customs of the said Kingdom of Spain, made to the said Francisco Garcia a grant of a
certain piece and parcel of land situate in the county of Dona
Ana, in the Territory of New Mexico, as at present constituted,

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the same then being a dependency and province of the said
Kingdom of Spain, said piece and parcel of land so granted as
aforesaid being bounded, described, located and designated as
follows:
"The tract of land known as the ' Santa Teresa:' Bounded
on the north by that bend known as the ' Cobrena;' on the south
by the bend of the Piedras Paradise, the same being somewhat
to the north of the present location of the Southern Pacific
Railroad bridge, where the same crosses the Rio Grande del
Norte; on the east the old bed of the said Rio Grande del
Norte, as the same ran and existed in the year 1853; and on
the west the brow of the ridge running parallel with the said
river.
"2. That thereupon then and there the said Francisco Garcia
was duly placed in legal possession of the said grant by officials
to that end duly authorized by the laws, usages and customs
of the said Kingdom of Spain, according to the laws, usages and
customs then in force.
"3. That the land included in the said outboundaries continued in the possession of the said grantee, his heirs, legal representatives and assigns, from the time of the making thereof,
prior to the year 1790, as aforesaid, down to the present time,
and that the petitioners herein have succeeded in part to the
rights of the said original grantee.
"And the court thereupon finds, as matter of law, that by
reason of the facts aforesaid an imperfect or equitable title and
right such as the United States under the stipulations of the
treaty of Guadalupe Iidalgo ought to recognize and confirm to,
the said land was vested in the said original grantee aforesaid,
which right and title existed at the date when the United States
acquired sovereignty over the country now embraced within the
Territory of New Mexico, within which the said grant is situated, and that the petitioners herein are entitled to have the
same confirmed to the heirs, representatives and assigns of the
said original grantee.
"It is therefore adjudged, decreed and specified that the said
private land claim, the subject of this suit, is a valid claim
against the United States of America for the land included within

UNITED STATES v. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the natural boundaries above set forth, and the claim to the said
land grant as designated, located, bounded and described herein
be, and the same hereby is, confirmed to the heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the said original grantee, excepting,
however, from this confirmation any right or title to any gold,
silver or quicksilver mines or minerals of the same, the same remaining the property of the United States."
The Government now raises several objections to these findings, and it is stated: (1) that there was no evidence that any
grant by an officer authorized to make it had ever been made
to the original grantees from whom the petitioners derived title;
(2) that there is no evidence that the grant, even if one were
made, was ever recorded as required by the treaty with Mexico,
dated December 30, 1853, concluding the Gadsden purchase,
(10 Stat. 1031, 1035,) the sixth article of which provides that
no grant made prior to September 25, 1853, will be respected
or considered as obligatory which has not been located and duly
recorded in the archives of Mexico; (3) that there was no sufficient evidence of possession upon which to base a presumption
that a grant had ever been made.
1. For the purpose of proving that a grant had once been
made of the land in question, the petitioners introduced in evidence a correct copy of the original documents showing the proceedings taken before the second civil judge of the canton, the
original of which was on file in the office of the judge at Paso
del Norte. From these proceedings it appears that on January ',
1853, Jos6 Maria Garcia, residing in the then town of El Paso
del Norte, presented to the second civil judge, etc., a petition,
in which he alleged that he was the testamentary executor under
the will of his deceased mother, the widow of Garcia, and that
among the property of that estate was a ranch called Santa
Teresa, the document of which he had lost when the American
forces took possession of the town, and he prayed that in order
to supply in some manner the lack of the original document there
be taken the testimony of certain reputable persons existing in
the town, who knew that these documents were the title to the
land in question, which prior the year 1790 had been possessed
by his father and thereafter occupied by his family until the InVOL. CLXXXV-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

dians caused them to leave the premises. Pursuant to the petition the judge cited the witnesses named therein to appear
before him, which they did, and some of them testified to the existence of certain documents relating to the ranch Santa Teresa;
that they had seen those documents relating to that ranch and
had seen them on file in the archives, and that they were authenticated by one of the lieutenant governors that came into
the district about the close of the last century, and that by reason of the father of one of the witnesses being an employ6 of
the town after 1821, such witness saw the original documents
as to said ranch on file in the archives of his father's office, and
which documents were lost when the Americans took possession of the archives of the town; that the town had been occupied by the American forces, and it was a notorious fact that
those forces took a part of the public archives, and also occupied
Jos6 Maria Garcia's house, taking therefrom documents relating to his property and papers of importance, among them the
documents-of such ranch. Possession of the ranch from the time
of the alleged grant was also proved. Upon evidence of this
nature, testified to by several witnesses, the judge made a finding in favor of Garcia as follows:
"In view of the foregoing judicial inquiry with which the executor, Jos6 Maria Garcia, has proved legally the possession
that for many years they have had of the ranch called Santa
Teresa, above the dam of the town and the Muleros bend, and
it appearing that they have ever had titles to said property,
and these have been lost, and from what appears from the testament and judicial inquiry there is given to the executor Jos6
Maria Garcia, for himself and in the name of the co-heirs, without_prejudice to any third parly proving a better right,the real,

actual, personal, corporal possession, or that which better corresponds in law, by reason of immemorial possession, of the
Santa Teresa ranch, with the enjoyment and benefits of the
lands, woods and pastures, and all other products to be found on
said premises, and it is ordered that he be protected and defended therein, warning all not to interrupt or molest him in
said possession and free use that he may deem fit to make,

UNiTED STATES c. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

thereof, without he being first heard and judgment rendered
against him in court after a trial."
The judge also ordered that Garcia should at a certain day
named attend with the judge and witnesses, in order that he
might be placed in possession, and it is afterwards recited that
Garcia went to the place named with the witnesses and was
placed in possession of the land described in the petition. This
record of all the proceedings thus taken formed part of the archives of the office of the judge, and was an official public document belonging to such archives, as testified to by the successor of the judge. It was not the record of the original grant,
such as is referred to in the treaty of 1853, but only a record
of the proceedings just mentioned, and was contained in a book
or collection of papers, endorsed 1853. The record was received in evidence under the objection of the Government, one
of the objections being that the whole proceeding was exIparte,
and therefore incompetent as evidence for any of the parties.
The court below regarded the proceeding as in the nature of
one to perpetuate evidence, and held that the testimony had
been taken under the provisions of the law of the Republic of
Mexico of May 23, 1837, and in the judgment of the court the
record was therefore admissible in evidence. The law is said
to be a reenactment of article 14 of the decree of July 22, 1833.
Reynolds, p. 173. As translated the law reads: "Art. 14.
The district judges, with respect to the towns where they live,
shall have cognizance, by way of precaution, with the alcaldes
of the same, in the making of inventories, evidence ad perpetuam, and other judicial proceedings of like nature, in which
there is yet no opposition of parties."
We are not prepared to say that the record thus put in evidence was void or irregular under the law just quoted. The
judgment by its terms does not assume to be conclusive. It
was a judicial inquiry made according to law, before a judicial
officer of the State, and while the judgment gives to the petitioner, on account of the grant proved, the lands described in
his petition, yet such judgment is by its terms "without prejudice to any third party proving a better right," and it gives
subject to such proof "the real, actual, personal, corporal pos-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

session, or that which better corresponds in law, by reason of
immemorial possession, of the Santa Teresa ranch, with the enjoyments and benefits of the lands, woods and pastures, and all
other products to be found on such premises," etc. In other
words, the judgmnent recognizes his possession and reaffirms the
title of Garcia.
In the absence of any sufficient attack upon the record or of
any evidence on the part of the Government going to disprove or discredit the averinents contained therein, we think
it formed enough of a basis for the finding of the court below
that there was a grant made as stated in its findings, and that
such grant and the record thereof in the archives had been destroyed under the circumstances mentioned. While this evidence, as to the existence of a grant, possibly might not be sufficient of itself upon which to found a decree confirming a title
under it, yet taken in connection with the proof, which will be
hereafter referred to, of possession under a grant, since 1790 up
to the time of the filing of the petition in the court below, it
was sufficient upon which to base a presumption of the existence of all papers necessary to constitute a title to the land
possessed under it.
2. The objection of a lack of evidence that the alleged grant
had ever been recorded may be considered with the one averring there was no sufficient evidence of possession upon which
to base a presumption of a grant. It is claimed by the appellee
that under the facts a presumption of a record, as well as of the
grant, may be made. In regard to the matter of possession, it
was stated in the opinion of the court below as follows:
"Our view of the evidence is that this tract of land was in
the possession of Francisco Garcia exclusively during his lifetime
from the beginning of this century, and that upon his death it
passed to the hands of his children and remained in their possession until long after the transfer of sovereignty of the country
to the United States, and is now in the possession of their
grantees and their families. There have been very few claims
based upon long possession more satisfactorily made out, in our
minds, than is made out by the evidence in this case. These
being the facts as we find them, we feel absolutely bound by

UNITED STATES v,. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

the doctrine established in the case of The United States v.
Chaves, 175 U. S. 509."
There are no adverse claimants to the land in question, and
the proof of possession, exclusive in its nature, has been satisfactory to the court below. What constitutes such possession of
a large tract of land depends to some extent upon circumstances,
the fact varying with different conditions, such as the general
state of the surrounding country, whether similar land is customarily devoted to pasturage or to the raising of crops; to
the growth of timber or to mining, or other purposes. That
which might show substantial possession, exclusive in its character, where the land was devoted to the grazing of numerous
cattle, might be insufficient to show the same kind of possession
where the land was situated in the midst of a large population
and the country devoted, for instance, to manufacturing purposes. Personal familiarity with the general character of the
country and of its lands, and also knowledge of the nature and
manner of the use to which most of the lands in the same vicinity are put, have given the judges of the court below unusual
readiness for correctly judging and appreciating the weight and
value to be accorded evidence upon the subject of possession of
such lands as are here involved.
Those judges will also be presumed to have been familiar
with the cases involving possession decided here, such as Whitney v. United States, 167 U. S. 529, 546, and Bergere v. United
States, 168 U. S. 66, 77. When, therefore, a majority of the
court decides that the evidence of possession given in the case
is most satisfactory, we are inclined to concur in that view unless it is clear that the court fell into a plain error, which we
think is not the case. A majority of the court has held that,
"There have been very few claims based upon long possession
more satisfactorily made out, in our minds, than is made out by
the evidence in this case." That the dissenting justices came
to a different conclusion merely shows that the evidence was
such that different inferences might be drawn therefrom, and
under such circumstances we are indisposed to review and reverse the decision of the court upon such a question of fact.
In this case we therefore take the fact to be that there was a

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

possession under a grant of some kind, starting before 1790 and
continuing, uninterrupted, until the filing of the petition. There
was also evidence of the existence of a grant covering the land
so possessed, together with evidence of the destruction of the
documents constituting the grant, and also evidence of the destruction of the archives where the record of the grant had
been, and the question arises whether such possession under
these circumstances is not sufficient to presume not alone the
existence of a proper and valid grant, but its proper record in
the archives of Mexico, within the provisions of the treaty of
1853 with that country? We think it is, and that the evidence
is sufficient not only to presume a grant but to presume any
other matter which would have occurred in order to render the
grant a perfectly valid one and the evidence of it sufficient

within the requirements of the treaty. The treaty of 1853 did
not require a record, in all cases, to be made at the seat of
government of Mexico as a condition of the recognition of the
grant by the Government of the United States. If the record
had been made in the place where records of that nature were
customarily made for lands granted in the vicinity, it was, as we
think, within the provisions of the treaty. It appears sufficiently, in our opinion, that Paso del Norte was the place where
the archives of Mexico were kept in regard to grants of land in
that neighborhood, and there is some evidence of the destruction of those archives, or of part of them, including the record
of the grant in question here, by the American troops.
The appellants further claim that a lieutenant governor had
no authority to grant public lands unless he was a subdelegate
or had been authorized by the governor to make the grant, and
that there is here no evidence of either fact. But possession
under a grant, so long continued and so complete as is the case
here, may well authorize, if necessary, the presumption that the
lieutenant governor was either a subdelegate or that he had
been authorized or his act ratified by the governor and the
grant
recorded. It is not the case of basing a presumption ofduly
authority
to make a grant upon the mere fact that
the

officer made it, and must therefore be presumed to have had
authority. Lieutenant governors in the province of Louisiana

UNITED STATES v. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

were, by virtue of their office, subdelegates, and as such had
power to grant what is termed incomplete titles, and such grants
might be confirmed. Chouteat's Heirs v. The United States,
9 Pet. 137, 144. There is no evidence that lieutenant governors in Mexico did not have the same powers, and a presumption of confirmation might be made in cases of long continued,
exclusive and uninterrupted possession under such a grant. It
is the long continued, uninterrupted and exclusive character of
the possession here proved which is so important, and when
supported, as it has been by the evidence of a grant, and of possession in accordance with and under it, the presumption of
validity may safely be made.
A record may in a case like this be presumed to have been
made, just as well as theexistence of a grant may be presumed.
Where the exclusive character of the possession is so long, so
uninterrupted and so satisfactorily made out as in this case, and
where other proof exists of the actual making of a grant of
some kind of the land in- controversy, the papers constituting
such grant having been seen among the archives of Mexico, although the papers themselves have been destroyed, we think a
case is made out showing not only that a grant had been made,
but that it was duly located and recorded. The record was to
be in the archives of Mexico, under the provisions of the treaty,
and those archives, according to the evidence, may be presumed
in fact to have existed at the place where the documents and
their record were in truth destroyed. Taking all the evidence,
there is room for the presumption of a record of the grant as
well as that for the existence of the grant itself.
In United States v. C/iaves, 159 U. S. 452, M r. Justice Shiras,
after speaking of the fact that there was ample evidence to
show that the claimants had been put in juridical possession of
the land covered by the grant from the government of New
Mexico, which had authority to make it, continued, page 463:
"However, we do not wish to be understood as undervaluing
the fact of a possession so long and uninterrupted as disclosed
in this case. Without going at length into the subject, it may
be safely said that by the weight of authority, as well as the
preponderance of opinion, it is the general rule of American

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

law that a grant will be presumed upon proof of an adverse,
exclusive and uninterrupted possession for twenty years, and
that such rule will be applied as a presumptio juris et de jure,

wherever, by possibility, a right may be acquired in any manner known to the law. 1 Greenleaf Ev. 12th ed. sec. 17;
JRicard v. Williams, 7 Wheat, 59, 109; Coolidge v. Learned,

8 Pick. 503. Nothing, it is true, can be claimed by prescription which owes its origin to and can only be had by matter of
record ; but lapse of time accompanied by acts done, or other
circumstances, may warrant the jury in presuming a grant or
title by record. Thus, also, though lapse of time does not, of
itself furnish a conclusive bar to the title of the sovereign,
agreeably to the maxim, nullum tempus ocurrit regi; yet, if

the adverse claim could have a legal commencement, juries are
advised or instructed to presume such commencement, after
many years of uninterrupted possession or enjoyment. Accordingly, royal grants have been thus found by the jury, after
an indefinitely long-continued peaceful enjoyment, accompanied
by the usual acts of ownership. 1 Greenl. Ev. see. 45. The
principle upon which this doctrine rests is one of general jurisprudence, and is recognized in the Roman law and the codes
founded thereon, Best's Principles of Evidence, sec. 366, and
was therefore a feature of the Mexican law at the time of the
cession."
In the still later case of U"nited States v. Chaves, 175 U. S.
509, long continued and uninterrupted possession of lands in
Mexico, beginning long prior to the transfer of the territory to
this country and continuing after that transfer, was held sufficient upon which to base presumptions enough for a legal
judgment in favor of such possession in the absence of rebutting circumstances. It is true there was an original grant to
one of the occupants, Antonio Gutierrez, but the claimant was
unable to present any direct conveyance from the original grantee or from his heirs with which he was in any way connected.
He relied in fact upon evidence of possession by himself and
his predecessors in title. Mr. Justice McKenna, in delivering
the opinion of the court, made an extended examination of the
law in regard to presumptions from possession, and it was held

UNITED STATES v. PENDELL.
Opinion of the Court.

that proof of possession may be sufficient to admit of a pre-

to
sumption that everything had been done that was necessary
the
be done by way of a grant or conveyance of the title to
predecessors.
his
or
individual in possession
But the court below has not acted in this case upon evidence
of mere possession, unaccompanied by any written evidence
conferring, or professing to confer, a title of some description.
the
In United States v. Power's _Heirs, 11 How. 570, 580,
was
it
and
force,
no
have
grant actually proved was held to
held
alleged that those under whom plaintiff claimed possession
many-years
for
by some verbal permission from the government
of that
under France and Great Britain. But no proof, even
there
"if
court,
fact, was made, and as said in the opinion of the
District
the
had been such proof, it would be of no value, as
Court did not possess power to act on evidence of naked possesprofesssion unaccompanied by written evidence conferring, or
description."
some
of
title
a
ing to confer,
To the same effect is United States v. Heirs of Rillieux, 14
How. 189, where it was said that under the acts of Congress
no decree could be founded upon mere possession.
In this case proof was given of a grant of some nature to petitioner's predecessor, which covered the land in question, accompanied by proof that such grant had been actually destroyed
by the American troops, so that it could not be produced. Proof
of the grant tended to characterize the possession which was
also proved, and to render it of an adverse and exclusive nature.
The lower court found as a fact the exclusive possession of such
the
land by Garcia during his lifetime, from the beginning of
century, and then by his children, until long after the transfer
of the.sovereignty o the courftry to the United States, and that
such possession continued in the hands of theirgrantees and
their families. Evidence of the actual existence of the grant,
together with evidence of this kind of exclusive possession under
a claim of title, is more than mere proof of naked possession
given solely for the purpose of therefrom inferring, in the abonce
sence of all other evidence of its existence, that a grant had
above
the
of
principle
been made. It does not come within the
cited cases nor violate the act of 1891, establishing the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

We do not understand that the treaty or that act made it absolutely necessary that a grant should actually be produced upon
the trial, and that if one had been executed and by some accident destroyed, no proof could be given of its contents, or any
proof of possession of the lands in accordance with the grant be
received. Nor do we understand that it was requisite that a
record of the grant should be produced, in all cases, or that in
its absence the petitioner must inevitably fail.
The contents of written instruments may be proved by parol,
when it is shown that the instrument itself has been lost or destroyed under such circumstances as to show the loss or destruction was not the voluntary and intentional act of the party
claiming a benefit under its provisions. And in such case as
this we do not think the treaty or the act of Congress was intended to debar parol proof of the existence and of the contents
of a grant which had been destroyed under the circumstances
detailed, or that under such circumstances a presumption that
the grant had been recorded could not be indulged. United
States v. Sutter, 21 How. 170-174; United States v. Castro, 24:
How. 346, 350; Peralta v. United States, 3 Wall. 434.
Within the cases heretofore cited, we are of opinion that the
evidence of possession was sufficient, in connection with the
other evidence referred to, upon which to base a presumption
that the petitioner had a title to the land which should be confirmed, within the treaty of 1853 and the provisions of the act
of 1891, establishing the Court of Private Land Claims, and the
judgment should, therefore, be
Afflrmed.
MR.

JusTIcE

GRAY and MR. JUSTICE WHrrE took no part in

the decision of this case.

