UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Statement of the Case.

scrutinizing the treaty and the statute. A different conclusion
would be hostile to the objects which, as avowed in the treaty,
both the United States and China desired to accomplish. This
is so clearly manifest that argument cannot, as we think, make
it more so.
The question certified is answered in the negative, and an order so declaring will be sent to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
]MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision.

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 150. Argued January 30, 31, 1902.-Decided April 14, 1902.

'The facts and law of this case were so fully and satisfactorily discussed in
the Court of Claims that its opinion might well be adopted as that of this
court.
That court held that the claimant Borcherling was entitled, on the facts
shown, to recover from the United States the sum of seven thousand and
nine hundred dollars, and this court holds that the conclusions of that
court were correct and affirms the judgment.
The rule that, as between different states or sovereignties the courts of one
will not aid the officers of another to withdraw funds or property of a
decedent without providing for local creditors has no application to a
case like the present.

THE facts of this case were thus found by the Court of Claims:

"By act of Congress approved February 23, 1891, the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States was authorized and
directed to adjust, upon principles of equity and justice, the accounts of IRodman -M. Price, late purser in the United States
Navy and acting navy agent at San Francisco, crediting him
with the sum paid over to and receipted for by his successor,
A. M. Van Nostrand, acting purser, January 14, 1850, and pay
to said Rodman M. Price, or his heirs, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, any sum that may be found
due him upon such adjustment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

"August 31, 1892, the Treasury officials adjusted Price's accounts and found there was due him $76,204.08, which included
a credit of $75,000 that Price said he had advanced to Van
Nostrand from his private funds.
"In 1857 Samuel Forrest recovered in the Supreme Court of
New Jersey a judgment against Price for 817,000 and costs.
Execution on that judgment was returned unsatisfied. Forrest
died in 1869, intestate.
"In 1874 his widow, Anna A4. Forrest, as administratrix of
his estate, revived the judgment by seire facias. In her bill
she prayed discovery, injunction, and the appointment of a receiver. Price and his wife answered. The cause slept till August 9, 1892, when Mrs. Forrest, administratrix, filed a petition
stating that since filing her bill of complaint no payment had
been made on the judgment against Price; that neither she nor
her solicitors had been able to find any personalty or real estate belonging to Price by levy upon and sale of which any part
of the amount due on the judgment could be obtained; that it
had lately come to her knowledge that about $45,000 was about
to be paid Price by officers of the Treasury of the United States;
that that sum was to be paid by the delivery to Price or his
attorneys of a draft of the Treasurer of the United States payable to his order ; that said draft was to be made and the transaction closed on the 15th day of August thereafter; and if Price
obtained said money he would, unless restrained, put the same
beyond the reach of the petitioner.
"The petitioner prayed the appointment of a receiver of the
draft, and that Price be ordered immediately on the receipt of
such draft to endorse the same to the receiver, to the end that
the same might be received by him as an officer of the court
and disposed of according to law.
"The chancellor, August 8, 1892, issued a rule, returnable
September 12, 1892, to show cause and restraining Price from
making any endorsement of the draft referred to in the petition.
"A duly certified copy of the order was served upon Price
August 10, 1892. Nevertheless after that date, Price received
from the Assistant Treasurer of the United States at Washington and, without permission of the court, collected four several

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Statement of the Case.

drafts signed by that officer for the respective sums of $2704.08,
$13,500, $20,000, and $9000, in all the sum of $15,204.03, leaving
in the hands of the United States of the amount due on the
settlement of Price's accounts the sum of about $31,000.
"On the 10th day of October, 1892, Charles Borcherling was
appointed by the chancery court receiver in said cause of the
property and things in action belonging or due to or held in
trust for Price at the time of issuing said executions, or at any
time afterwards, and especially of said four drafts, with authority to possess, reveive and sue for such property and things in
action and the evidence thereof; and it was made the duty of
the receiver to hold such drafts subject to the further order of
the court. The receiver was required to give bond in the sum
of $40,900, conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties.
At the same time -Price was ordered to convey and deliver to
the receiver all such property and things in action and the evidence thereof, and especially forthwith to endorse and deliver
the drafts to him, and he and all agents or attorneys appointed
by him were enjoined and restrained from intermeddling with
the receiver in regard to said drafts, and ordered, if in possession or control thereof, to deliver them to the receiver with an
endorsement to that officer or to the clerk of the court for deposit; provided, the order should be void if the drafts other
than the one for $9000 were delivered with Price's endorsement to the clerk, the proceeds to be deposited to the credit of
the cause. Price was expressly enjoined from making any endorsement or appropriation of the drafts other than to the receiver or the alerk for deposit.
"The receiver gave the required bond, and having entered
upon the duties of his office, he caused a copy of the above orr
der to be served upon Price, and demanded compliance with
its provisions.
"In 1892, the particular day not being stated, the chancery
court issued an attachment against Price for contempt of court
in disobeying the order of August 8, 1892. By an order made
May 18, 1894, the court held him to be guilty of such contempt,
and he was directed to pay the receiver the sum of $31,704.08,
and a fine of $50 and costs, and in default of obedience to that
VOL.

OLxxxv-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

order to be imprisoned in the county jail until it was complied
with. 7 Dickinson (52 N. J. Eq.), 61, 31. Upon appeal to the
Court of Errors and Appeals the order of the chancery court
was affirmed. 8 Dickinson (53 N. J. Eq.), 693.
"The Treasury Department, at the time of allowing the
$76,204.08, withheld $31,000, under the provisions of the act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 481, to await the determination of a
suit to be instituted against Price, or surety upon Van Nostrand's bond as acting purser, United States Navy.
"The suit was instituted, but was dismissed some time previous to December 22, 1893.
"On the 16th of July, 1892, counsel for Mrs. Forrest wrote
the Secretary of the Treasury referring to a previous letter to
the Department of May 14, 1891, in the matter of the claim of
Rodman M. Price, and asking to be seasonably advised in the
case the Department took action in the direction desired by
Price.
"The Secretary was advised that Mrs. Forrest could prove
to the satisfaction of the Department that if Mr. Price did turn
over $75,000, or any large sum, to the United States, a part of
that sum, namely, $17,078.04-, must have belonged to Mrs. Forrest; that it was trust money, and it would not be equitable to
cause that much to be paid to Price.
"By letter of November 27, 1893, counsel for the receiver
notified the Secretary of the Treasury of Borcherling's appointment and qualification by giving bond of $40,000; that Price,
though personally enjoined, had, in contempt of the New Jersey court, endorsed the drafts and collected the proceeds. The
letter inclosed is a certified copy of the order of the court, October 10, 1892, appointing the receiver. Counsel in behalf of
the receiver made claim for the balance of $31,000, about to be
paid Price under act of February 23, 1891.
"The letter closed as follows: 'I respectfully ask that comity be shown the chancellor of New Jersey, and that the draft
to'be issued in payment of the balance due and payable to the
order of Rodman ALv.
Price be not delivered (or mailed) to said
Price or his attorney, but be transmitted to the chancery court
of the State of New Jersey, at Trenton, N. J., where said Price's

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Statement of the Case.

rights will be abundantly protected, the receiver, of course, being an impartial officer of the court. I request that before action is taken (other than as asked for by the receiver) due notice
may be given me that the receiver may be heard, to set forth
the reasons why this disposition should be made of the drafts
in question. Let me add that the Forrest judgment and interest now exceeds the sum of $60,000.'
"On December 4, 1893, the chancery court of INew Jersey,
being informed by the receiver that Price, assisted by John C.
Fay, Esq., his attorney, was endeavoring to obtain payment at
the Treasury of the balance, about $30,000, of this debt, and
appropriate it for his own use, issued orders against Price, enjoining him from seeking to obtain payment of any part of that
sum.
"On December 6, 1893, the receiver notified the Secretary of
the Treasury, by letter, that a copy of injunction of December 4
had been served upon Price, and enclosed a copy of the same
to the Secretary. He also invited the attention of the Secretary to the opinion of the Court of Claims in Redf/eld v. United
States, in the twenty-seventh volume of reports of the court;
informed him that he (the receiver) had applied to the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia for an injunction, and asked,
that if that court should not grant relief, he might have the
benefit of the injunction of the New Jersey court now brought
to the Secretary's notice. The receiver asked that if no relief
were granted by the Supreme Court of the District that the
Secretary send the drafts (otherwise to be handed to R. M.
Price) to the chancellor of New Jersey, at Trenton.
"The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, December 19, 1893, in a proceeding for injunction upon bill of Borcherling, receiver, and Anna Al. Forrest, administratrix, after
personal service upon Price and Fay, enjoined Price from receiving, assigning, collecting or endorsing to his own use, by
himself or by attorney, any warrants or drafts from the Treasury of the United States in payment, in whole or in part, of any
balance remaining unpaid under act of February 23, 1891, until
the further order of the court; and it being the design of this
order in nowise to interfere with the claim of any creditor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

the said Rodman M. Price, resident in this District against said
Price, it is further ordered and decreed that, upon the representation of any person so claiming to be a creditor in this District and the establishment of such claim in a manner that shall
satisfy the court of the bona fide existence of such claim, so
much of said balance as shall be sufficient to cover any and all
such claims so established shall be considered as exonerated
from the effect of this decree.
"The Supreme Court of the District, on the 22d of December, 1893, passed the following order in the said suit:
"'From the affidavits of John C. Fay and Jeremiah A. Wilson, claimants, and the assent and affidavit of the said Rodman
M. Price, filed this day, it appearing to the satisfaction of the
court that John C. Fay, Richard J. Bright, Frank S. Bright,
Samuel Shellabarger, J. M. Wilson and M. L. Woods, residents
of the District of Columbia, appear to be bona fide creditors of
the defendant, Rodman M. Price, and it appearing to the satisfaction of the court that as such they have bonafide claims for
services rendered said Price, to the extent of $7900, it is ordered
that the sum of seven thousand nine hundred dollars ($7900)
shall be exonerated from the effects of the decree passed herein
on the 19th of December, instant, restraining and enjoining Rodman M . Price from receiving, etc., any warrants and drafts
from the Treasury in payment of the whole or any part of the
balance due to him under the act of February 23, 1891; and
said injunction order shall not operate to affect said sum of
seven thousand nine hundred dollars.'
"Counsel for the receiver, Friday, December 22, 1893, addressed the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, setting forth
the fact that the order of that day had been hastily acted upon,
and explaining that the judge sent a verbal order to counsel to
be in court at 1 o'clock; that he had already told Mr. Fay, attorney of Price, that he wanted copies of his papers served two
days in advance, in compliance with the rules; that at 12 o'clock
he had been telegraphed for to go out of the city on account
of illness in his family, and had sent a message to that effect
to the judge. The letter also notified the Secretary that the
receiver claimed that the money under the Redfteld case be-

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Statement of the Case.

longed to the receiver and not to Price. Counsel asked a
reasonable delay, that he was obliged to leave Washington, but
expected fully to return Saturday night, and expressed hope
that 'no action will be railroaded through to pay out any
money to-morrow.' He also notified the Treasury that a mandatory order had been issued against Price in New Jersey, and
asked that before any action was taken to paying Price, that
he (counsel) might be heard to show reason why the money
had not passed to the receiver under the ruling of the Redfield
case, copy of which he enclosed.
"The same day counsel for the receiver sent the following
telegram to the Secretary of the Treasury: ' Washington, D. C.,
December 22, 1893.-To Secretary of Treasury, Washington,
D. C.: Please defer action in Price matter over to-morrow.
The receiver notifies Treasury that he claims the money is
his, not Price's, and will hold the United States responsible if
paid Price or his attorney. Frank W. Hackett, attorney for receiver.'
"On the same day, namely, Friday, December 22, 1893, the
Acting Secretary of the Treasury endorsed a copy of the order
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia of December 22, with a reference to the Second Comptroller to issue a
certificate in favor of Rodman IM.Price for $7900, 'the balance
to be withheld pending an injunction against Price from receiving said balance.'
"On the same day, Friday, December 22, 1893, Second Comptroller certified that there were due and payable to Rodman IMt.
Price $7900; the balance, $23,100, to be withheld 'pending
an injunction against Price from recovering said balance now
pending before the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.'
"The draft on navy warrant No. 907, dated December 23,
1893, and payable to the order of Rodman M. Price, late purser,
United States Navy, for $7900, was paid at the Treasury December 23, 1893, by the Treasurer of the United States, said
draft being endorsed 'Rodman M. Price, late purser, United
States Navy; John C. Fay.'
"On the 25th of December, 1893, Borcherling, receiver, addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury, claiming that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Counsel for Parties.

on and after October 10, 1892, all property in the right to Price
to receive from the United States the balance under the act approved February 19, 1891, passed to him, the receiver. He reminded the Secretary that on the 27th of November, 1893, he
had the honor of advising the Treasury of his appointment and
enclosing a copy of the order of the chancellor; that MUr. Fay,
attorney for Mr. Price, had full notice of the receivership as
well as of the injunction of the court of chancery addressed to
Price and his attorneys forbidding them from receiving any
part of the $31,000; and that both Fay and Price had committed contempt of court. The receiver asked the secretary to
take the opinion of the Attorney General upon the following
questions:
"1. Did the appointment of a receiver by the Chancery
Court of New Jersey convey to that officer the property in the
claim against the United States of Rodman M. Price?
"2. Would payment to the receiver be a quittance to the
United States in the premises?
"3. Can the Secretary of the Treasury safely pay to Rodman M. Price or his heirs the money still unpaid under the act
of February 19, 1891, now that the receiver claims that it should
be paid over to him?
"A similar letter was addressed by the receiver and his counsel to the Secretary of the Navy.
"On April 1, 1899, the Comptroller ordered the balance,
$23,100, to be paid to Charles Borcherling, receiver, and the
same was paid at the Treasury that day to Mr. Borcherling, the
present claimant.
"Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court decide, as a
conclusion of law, that the claimant is entitled to recover from
the United States the sum of seven thousand and nine hundred
dollars ($7,900)."
Thereafter an appeal was allowed and taken to this court.
.7y. 1illiam i. Buitom for the United States.
ant Attorney General Pradtwas on his brief.

.M. Assist-

M . Cortlandt Par'ker and .211. Frank F. Hackett for IBorcherling.

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE SHIAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

The facts and law of this case were so fully and satisfactorily
discussed in the court below that its opinion might well be
adopted as that of this court. 35 0. 0l. 311.
We shall, however, briefly examine some of the propositions
urged in the brief of the Government filed in the case.
The first and principal contention is that the United States
is a sovereignty and has absolute control of the manner in
which it shall pay its debts, the persons to whom they shall be
paid, and, in fact, whether they shall be paid or sued upon at
all; that it is incompetent for the State of New Jersey, through
a statute or a decree of its courts, to direct to whom such a
debt shall be paid; that the United States, through comity,
may or may not recognize such a New Jersey statute or decree,
as it may determine, but without such recognition such statute
or decree is inoperative upon the disposition of such debt; that
the United States does not recognize, through comity, the passing of title to a claim against it to a receiver appointed under
a state statute or decree, and that consequently, in the present
case, the United States had a right to pay the debt to the original creditor, and was discharged by such payment.
It is not necessary for us to consider whether the power of
the United States over debts due by it and over the mode by
which such debts shall be paid is wholly unrestricted, because
the United States has not chosen to stand upon its sovereignty
in such particulars, but has provided in the act of March 3, 1887,
c. 359, that the Court of Claims and, concurrently, the District
and Circuit Courts of the United States, "shall have jurisdiction
to hear and determine all claims founded upon the Constitution
of the United States or any law of Congress, except for pensions,
or upon any regulation of any executive department, or upon
any contract, express or implied, with the government of the
United States, or for damages, liquidated or unliquidated, in
cases not sounding in tort, in respect of which claims the party
would be entitled to redress against the United States either in
a court of law, equity or admirality, if the United States were
suable."

OCTOBER TERMT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

This is not a case within the category of payments by way
of gratuity, payments as of grace and not of right, as was the
case of Emerson's Heirs v. Hall, 13 Pet. 409, and where it was
said by Mr. Justice McLean : "A claim having no foundation
in law, but depending entirely on the generosity of the government, constitutes no basis for the application of any legal principle. It cannot be assigned. It does not go to the administrator as assets. It does not descend to the heir. And if the
government, from motives of public policy, or any other considerations, shall think proper, under such circumstances, to
make a grant of money to the heirs of the claimant, they receive
it as a gift or pure donation-a donation made, it is true, in reference to some meritorious act of their ancestor, but which did
not constitute a matter of right against the government. In
the present case the government might have directed the money
to be paid to the creditors of Emerson, or to any part of his
heirs. Being the donor, it could, in the exercise of its discretion, make such distribution or application of its bounty as circumstances might require. And it has, under the title of an
act ' for the relief of the heirs of Emerson,' directed, in the body
of the act, the money to be paid to his legal representatives.
That the heirs were intended by this designation is clear; and
we think the payment which has been paid to them under this
act has been rightfully made; and that the fund cannot be considered as assets in their hands for the payment of debts."
This distinction between mere grants by the government by
way of gratuity and debts or claims of right was likewise recognized by this court in the French spoliation cases, where it
was held that the payments prescribed by the acts of Congress
were gratuities, and that creditors, legatees and assignees in
bankruptcy could be rightfully excluded. Blaygge v. Balch,
162 U. S. 439.

Here the government was not the donor of the money of
Price, but was its custodian, awaiting its lawful distribution.
As to the contention that the debt due from the United States
to Price could not be transferred from Price to the claimant by
operation of the laws of New Jersey, nor by any decree that

UNITED STATES v. BORCHERLING.
Opinion of the Court.

the courts of New Jersey, operating under such laws, could
make, it is sufficient to say that this court has held otherwise.
In Yaughn v. Northrup, 15 Pet. 1, Mr. Justice Story, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "The debts due from
the government of the United States have no locality at the
seat of government. The United States in their sovereign capacity have no particular place of domicile, but possess, in contemplation of law, an ubiquity throughout the United States;
and the debts due by them are not to be treated like the debts
of a private debtor, which constitute local assets in his own
domicile," and accordingly it was held, in that case, that "the
administrator of a creditor of the government duly appointed
in the State where the creditor was domiciled at the time of his
death, has full authority to receive payment and give a full discharge of the debt due his intestate in any place where the government may choose to pay it, whether it be at the seat of
government or at any other place where the public funds are
deposited; and that moneys so received constituted assets under
that administration, for which he was accountable to the proper
tribunals of the State where he was appointed."
Price v. Forrest, 173 U. S. 410, was one phase in the present
controversy. There the question was between the heirs of Rodman M[. Price and Borcherling, who had been appointed by the
Chancery Cohrt of New Jersey receiver of the assets of Price,
including the money belonging to him in the Treasury of the
United States. It was held by the courts of New Jersey that
the receiver was entitled to the money in the Treasury, and the
heirs and administrator of Price were enjoined from demanding
or receiving from the Secretary of the Treasury, or any officer
thereof, the said money or any part thereof. The cause was
brought to this court, and, after full consideration, the decree
of the Court of Errors and Appeals of the State of New Jersey
was affirmed. Two things were thus determined-first, generally, that it was competent for a state court of the domicil of a
creditor of the United States, and having jurisdiction over his
person, to decide a controversy between his heirs and creditors
as to the right to receive moneys held in trust by the United

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

States; and, second, specifically, under the facts of the present
case, that the title to the moneys of Price in the Treasury of
the United States had passed, under the laws of the State of
New Jersey and the decree of its courts, from Price and his heirs,
and had become vested in Borcherling, the receiver.
It is not open to doubt that the Court of Claims has jurisdiction to entertain the claim of the receiver to receive the fund,
the title to which had thus become vested in him. The jurisdiction of that court extends throughout the United States. It issues writs to every part of the United States, and is specially
authorized to enforce them. 10 Stat. 612, c. 122, sec. 3. By
establishing this court, the United States created a tribunal to
determine the right to receive moneys due by the government.
Such legislation did not leave the Treasury or its officers free
to arbitrarily select, between conflicting claimants, the one to
whom payment should be made.
It is finally contended, in behalf of the government, that even
if it was competent for the state courts to determine the controversy between the rival claimants to this fund, and even if
the Court of Claims has jurisdiction to give effect to such determination, yet the rights of creditors resident within the District
of Columbia were paramount to those of the New Jersey receiver, and that a payment made directly to them by the acting
Secretary of the Treasury would be a lawful discharge of the
United States.
Undoubtedly, as between different States or sovereignties,
the general rule is that the courts of one will not aid the officers of another to withdraw funds or property of a decedent
without providing for local creditors. But such a rule has no
application in a case like the present, where the government of
the United States has ubiquity in all the States of the Union,
and does not hold moneys due a creditor subject to the local
demands or claims of residents of the District of Columbia.
Moreover, such a rule is for a court having control over the fund
in dispute. It is not for a ministerial officer of the Treasury,
having no judicial powers, to give effect to such demands.
It is, indeed, suggested that the action of the Supreme Court

tNITED STATES r. BORCHERLING.
Opinion of the Court.

of the District of December 22, 1893, was a legal determination which operated to relieve Price, as to a portion of this
fund, from the injunction of that court, enjoining him from receiving or collecting moneys due him in the Treasury of the
United States, and to authorize the Treasurer of the United
States to pay such portion of the fund in disregard of the decree of the New Jersey court.
But it is obvious that the Supreme Court of the District had
no jurisdiction or control over the money in the Treasury of
the United States. It was dealing only with the parties before
it, of whom the United States was not one. The order referred to doubtless did relieve Price from the existing injunction of that court, and left him free, so far as that injunction
was concerned, to urge his claim against the United States;
but it did not, and could not, relieve Price from the injunction
and decree of the New Jersey court. Nor could such order operate as a legal adjudication, which would permit the Treasurer
of the United States to disregard the decree of the courts of
New Jersey and the title of the receiver thereunder, of which
the department had full notice. In point of fact, inspection
shows that this order was not intended as an adjudication. It
was merely ex parte, and its only purpose or effect was to permit Price to push elsewhere his claim against the government.
Such an order could not have been the subject of an appeal,
even if an opportunity had been afforded to the receiver to take
an appeal.
When analyzed, this contention will be perceived to be only
a renewal of the one already considered, namely, that a ministerial officer, having no judicial or statutory powers in the premises, in a case wherein the government was the debtor, could
arbitrarily, without notice to the legal holder of the claim, pay
the money in dispute in this case over to Price. This, we have
seen, he had no power under the law to do, and such a disposition of the money could not be successfully pleaded in the
Court of Claims as a lawful discharge of the United States.
For these reasons, and referring, for a fuller discussion of the
questions involved, to the opinion of the Court of Claims, we

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

think the conclusions of the court were correct, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.
MR . JUSTicE WHTE

dissented.

MR. JUsTicE HARLAN

took no part in the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. FINNELL.
APEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 523. Submitted February 28, 1902.-Decided April 21, 1902.

The District and Circuit Courts of the United States are always open for
the transaction of some business which may be transacted under the
orders of the judge in his absence, and on such transaction rest the plaintiff's claims in this case, which the court sustain as business which could
be transacted by the clerk in the absence of the judge, following the departmental construction of the statutes.
Of course if that construction were obviously or clearly wrong it would be
the duty of the court to so adjudge; but if there simply be doubt as to
the soundness of that construction, the action of the Government in conformity with it for many years should not be overruled except for cogent
reasons.

THE case is stated in the opinion of the court.
-3f'. Assistant Attorney General Pradt and X,. Philp .
Ashford for appellants.
.Ar. Charles . Lancaster for appellee.
MR. J UsTicE

HARLAN

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellee was clerk of the District and Circuit Courts for
the Kentucky District from July 1, 1894, to June 30, 1898,
his office, during that period and previously, being in the city

