OCTOBER TERHMI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

that the party bringing the case here from such court intended
to assert a Federal right. The statutory requirement is not
met unless the party unmistakably declares that he invokes for
the protection of his rights, the Constitution, or some treaty,
statute, commission or authority, of the United States. Applying this rule to the case before us, the writ of error cannot be
maintained.
TrFit of error dismissed.
MiR. JUSTICE BROWN took

no part in the decision.

EASTERN BUILDING AND LOAN ASSOCIATION v.
EBAUGH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 177. Argued Barch 3, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

This case was presented to the court below with the facts found by the
trial court, among which were that under the circumstances it was the
law of New York that the plaintiff in error could not be heard to say
that its promise was ultra vires; and it was decided that such findings
of fact were conclusive upon it. This court holds that the law of New
York was a necessary element in the propositions and in it was involved
not only what the statutory law is, but what its application is under the
courts of that State, both of which were facts to be proved, and the finding upon which was binding on this court.

THE plaintiff in error is a building and loan association incorporated under the laws of the State of New York, and has its
principal place of business in the city of Syracuse in that State.
The defendant in error is a shareholder in said corporation,
and brought this action in the Court of Common Pleas of the
county of Green ville, State of South Carolina, for the par value
of his stock, to wit, the sum of $1000, or, failing in that, for the
sum of $580, the money paid in by him.
By agreement of counsel all issues of law and fact were referred to a referee. The referee took testimony, and reported

BUILDING & LOAN ASSOCIATION v. EBkUGH

115

Statement of the Case.

to the court "that the plaintiff is entitled to recover judgment
against the defendant for the sum of one thousand dollars, with
interest from October 15, 1898, at the rate of seven per cent per
annum, and for the costs of this action."
The report of the referee was confirmed, and judgment was
entered for the plaintiff (defendant in error) in accordance with
the report. The judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, and the case was then brought here.
The facts as recited in the opinion of the Court of Common
Pleas are as follows (58 S.Carolina, 83):
"The defendant is a corporation organized under the laws of
New York, with its principal place of business in the city of
Syracuse. In the early part of the year 1892, it began business in the State of South Carolina, and organized in the city
of Greenville, a local branch of said association. The plaintiff
is a resident of the city of Greenville, in said State. The defendant's agent approached the plaintiff for the purpose of
inducing him to become a stockholder in the defendant company. The agent exhibited to the plaintiff a form of the certificate of stock, which contained, among other things, this
promise:
"' Eastern Building and Loan Association of Syracuse, New
York, agrees to pay said shareholder, or his heirs, executors,
administrators or assigns, the sum of one hundred dollars for
each of said shares, at the end of seventy-eight months.'
"At the same time the agent exhibited to him certain printed
circulars, or literature, of the defendant company. One of
these circulars was entitled 'The definite contract plan.' This
circular stated :
"' Q. What amount is deposited monthly ? A. Seventy-five
cents per share. .
"' Q. When will the shares reach their par value ? A. Shares
mature in exactly six and one half years.
"'How much will a member have to pay in altogether?
A. On a basis of ten shares (one thousand dollars maturity
value) he will have paid in five hundred and ninety-five dollars
($595) and receives one thousand dollars.

"' All shares on which payments are made are regularly ma-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tured at the expiration of seventy-eight months (six and onehalf years) from date of certificate.
"' lllust1ration.

"'Showing cost and profits to the investor of ten shares of
$1000 six and a half years, at time of maturity.
ie pays a membership fee of $1.00 per share... $ 10 00
He pays monthly instalments of $7.50 per month
585 00
for 78 months, $7.50 X 78 ................
$ 595 00
Total amount invested ..................
1000 00'
...............
He receives in cash at maturity
IThe only association making a contract definite
C.
in every particular.

.

.

.

Stock matures in seventy-eight

months.'
"On reading the circulars and after listening to the persuasive talk of the agent, the plaintiff was induced to become a
subscriber for ten shares of stock. Thereupon the certificate
sued upon was issued to him. This certificate is dated on
April 1, 1892. It certifies that 'D. W. Ebaugh, of Greenville,
county of Greenville, and State of South Carolina, is hereby
constituted a shareholder of the Eastern Building and Loan Association of Syracuse, New York, incorporated under the laws
of New York, and holds ten shares therein of one hundred
dollars each, and in consideration of the membership fee, together with agreements and statements contained in the application for membership in the association, and full compliance
with the terms, conditions and by-laws printed on the front
and back of this certificate, which are hereby referred to and
made a part of this contract; and the said Eastern Building
and Loan Association of Syracuse, New York, agree to pay to
said shareholder, or his heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, the sum of one hundred dollars for each of said shares at
the end of seventy-eight months from the date hereof.
"Ebaugh paid the entrance fees, and continued to pay the
monthly instalments until seventy-eight months had elapsed.
The last payment was made on October 1,1898. In subscribing
to this stock and in making these payments, Ebaugh trusted to

BUILDING & LOAN ASSOCIATION r. EBAUGH.

117

Statement of the Case.

the statements contained in the circular and to the promise
made in the certificate. About one month before the last payment was made, the association wrote to Ebaugh stating that
they could not carry out the contract, and stating that they
could not pay him one hundred dollars upon the end of seventyeight months, but that he would have to continue making payments. In reply to this, Ebaugh wrote that he had made a
definite contract with the association, and expected them to
comply with its terms. A short time after making the last remittance he signed a blank receipt upon the back of the certificate, and sent the same to the association, with the request that
they forward him a check for the money due him. The association refused to make payment, and on January 17, 1899,
this action was commenced to recover from the association the
sum of one thousand dollars, with interest thereon from October 1, 1898. Certain property of the defendant company in
this State was attached in said action.
"The defendant made answer, alleging that there was no
contract to mature the stock at a definite period, but that it
was only estimated that the stock would be matured in seventyeight months. It also claims that any promise to mature the
stock within a definite time would be contrary to their by-laws
and charter, and contrary to the laws of New York.
"By agreement of counsel, all issues of law and fact were
referred to Oscar Hodges, a member of the bar at Greenville,
as special referee. Mr. Hodges took testimony, and heard argument, and filed his report, wherein he concludes 'that the
plaintiff is entitled to recover judgment against the defendant
for the sum of one thousand dollars, with interest from October 15, 1898, at the rate of seven per cent per annum, and for
the costs of this action.'
"To this report the defendant filed certain exceptions. After hearing argument, I am satisfied that the report of the referee is correct in every particular, and the exceptions are hereby
overruled. The defendant certainly made definite assurances
in those circulars, and a definite promise as to the maturity of
stock; that if the plaintiff would pay the entrance fees, and his
monthly dues for seventy-eight months, that at the end of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

time it would pay to him one hundred dollars for each share
of stock taken by him. These assurances and this promise were
made for the purpose of procuring the plaintiff as a stockholder.
This promise was definite. The plaintiff relied upon it, and
made the payment of his entrance fees, and his monthly dues.
The association knew that the plaintiff was relying upon its
promise, and allowed him to make all these payments and to
incur the liability of a stockholder. It received the full benefit
of this transaction, and it cannot now be heard to say that the
contract was contrary to its by-laws, or its charter. Even if
this contract were in excess of its charter powers, the association would, nevertheless, be bound by it, inasmuch as it received
the full benefit thereof."
_M'. William Hfepburn Russell for plaintiff in error.
Filliam Beverly Winslow was on his brief.

f,.

.l'. H. J. .aynswortlt for defendant in error. .MXr. W. H.
'.. L. F Parker and .11>. L. 0. Patterson were on his
Lyles,
brief.

NMR. JUsTICE

AcKE\NA

delivered the opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error invokes against the judgment, to quote from
the brief of counsel, "those provisions of the Constitution of
the United States which declare that 'full faith and credit shall
be given in each State to the public acts, records and judicial
proceedings of every other State;' that no State shall 'pass
any law impairing the obligation of contracts,' and
that ' no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States;
nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within
its-jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.' "
The protection of those constitutional provisions is claimed
because it is asserted the courts of South Carolina disregarded
the law of New York as expounded by the courts of that State.
Certain decisions of New York were introduced in evidence

BUILDING & LOAN ASSOCIATION v. EBAUGH.

119

Opinion of the Court.

by plaintiff in error, and from them it is deduced that the law
of the State was and is that the contract between the association and its stockholders is constituted not only of the certificate of stock and its indorsement, but as well of the articles of
association and by-laws of the corporation, and therefore the
period of maturity was an estimate, not an assurance. And
further, that it was established as the law of New York, in
O'Mfalley v. Loan & Savings Association, 92 Hun, 572, p. 577,
"that the authority to issue a certificate with a fixed period of
maturity is not expressly given either by the statute or by articles of association or by-laws of the association." And that
the association "did not possess the power or authority to issue
a certificate specifying a fixed maturity period, and that the
clause in the certificate should be construed as an estimated
period of maturity."
To the first proposition the courts of South Carolina answer
with a finding of fact that the plaintiff in error had given the
defendant in error a definite promise that his stock would mature in seventy-eight months-not a promise only by the certificate, but assurances in circulars and positive representations by
an agent.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina did not find it necessary to concur with or dissent from the second proposition advanced by plaintiff in error. The court said (58 South Carolina,
83, p. 87):
"The appellant contends that the contract must be construed
with reference to the laws of New York, and attempts to differentiate this case from those just mentioned (prior cases were
cited) on the ground that the answer alleges, and the testimony
establishes, the fact, that under the laws of the State, the bylaws of the association and not its express agreement, must
prevail in the interpretation of the contract between the parties.
"Both the master and Circuit Judge found as a matter of
fact that the laws of New York did not forbid the defendant
from entering into an agreement by which the shares of stock
would mature in a definite time.
" In his report the master says:

OCTOBER ''ERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the ('urt.

"'The question as to whether this promise was in excess of
the charter powers, was not expressly decided by the Supreme
Court, but that court did decide that even though it were in
excess of its charter powers (in the language of B. B. R1. 1?.
Co. v. .3fcDonald, 60 Am. St. Rep. 172): "The general rule is
that where a private corporation has entered into a contract,
not inimoral in itself, and not forbidden by any statute, and it
has been in good faith performed by the other party, the corporation will not be heard on a plea of ultra vires."
" ' This proposition is fully sustained by the decisions of New
York. The plain tiff introduced in evidence the following decisions of that court: Whitney Arms Co. v. Barlow, 63 N. Y.
62;-De Grand v. American Linen Ttread Co., 21 N. Y. 124;
Diamond .Match Co. v. Poeber, 106 N. Y. 473.
"' This constituted the only evidence before me as to what
was the law of New York touching this point. I find as a
matter of fact that the law of New York is that where a corporation enters into a contract, that is in excess of its charter
powers or is unauthorized by law, it will nevertheless be bound
to perform its agreement as contained in the contract, if it suffers the other party to perform his agreement and receives the
benefits and retains them.
"'This being the law of New York, it is conclusive of the case
at issue.'
"The report of the master was confirmed in all respects by
the Circuit Judge.
"As this is an action at law, the foregoing findings of fact
are not subject to review but are conclusive on this court.
"As the laws of New York are not in conflict with the construction which this court has placed upon contracts similar to
that upon which the action herein is founded, we fail to discover
any facts causing us to differentiate this case from those hereinbefore mentioned."
It will be observed, therefore, that the case was presented to
the Supreme Court of South Carolina with the facts found by
the trial court as follows: (1) that the plaintiff in error had
made a positive promise that the stock of defendant in error
would mature in seventy-eight months; (2) under the assurance

BUI LDING & LOAN ASSOCIATION v. EBAUGH.

121

Opinion of the Court.

of that promise the defendant had subscribed for the stock and
had performed in good faith all obligations on his part; (3) under such circumstances it was the law of New York that plaintiff in error could not be heard to say that its promise was ultra
vires. And the court decided that such findings of fact were
conclusive upon it.
The case is presented here under like conditions. This is a
writ of error to the state court, and whatever was a question of
fact there is a question of fact here. This court said, speaking
by Chief Justice Waite, in Chicago & Alton Railroad Co. v.
Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615, where, as in the case at bar,
was invoked that provision of the Constitution of the United
States which requires the courts of one State to give full faith
and credit to the public acts of another:
"Whenever it becomes necessary under this requirement of
the Constitution for a court of one State, in order to give faith
and credit to a public act of another State, to ascertain what
effect it has in that State, the law of that State must be proved
as a, fact. No court of a State is charged with knowledge of
the laws of another State; but such laws are in that court
matters of fact, which, like other facts, must be proved before
they can be acted upon. This court, and the other courts of
the United States, when exercising their original jurisdiction,
take notice, without proof, of the laws of the several States
of the United States; but in this court, when acting under
its appellate jurisdiction, whatever was matter of fact in the
court whose judgment or decree is under review, is matter of
fact here. This was expressly decided in Hanley v. Donoghue,
116 U. S. 1, in respect to the faith and credit to be given by
the courts of one State to the judgments of the courts of another
State, and it is equally applicable to the faith and credit due
in one State to the public acts of another."
We are not called upon, therefore, to review or reply to the
very able argument of counsel for plaintiff in error, advanced
to show that the situs of the contract between the parties was
New York, and that the words "public acts," in article IV,
sec. 1, of the Constitution of the United States, mean the public
statutes of the State.

OCTOBER TERM,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

A necessary element in both propositions (if they may be regarded as independent) is the law of New York; and in the
latter is involved not only what the statutory law is, but what
its application is under the decisions of the courts of that State.
Both, as we have seen, were facts to be proved, and the finding
upon which is binding upon us.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY did not hear the argument and took no part

in the decision.

McINTOSH v. AUBREY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 107. Submitted January 16, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

Section 4747 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that no sum of money
due, or to become due, to any pensioner shall be liable to attachment,
levy or seizure, by or under any legal or equitable process whatever,
whether the same remains with the Pension Office, or any officer or agent
thereof, or is in course of transmission to the pensioner entitled thereto,
but shall inure wholly to the benefit of such pensioner, protects the fund
only while in the course of transmission to the pensioner; but, when
the money has been paid to him, it has enured wholly to his benefit,
and is liable to seizure as opportunity presents itself.

THIs action presents the question of the liability of real estate purchased with pension money, to be taken on execution
to satisfy a claim of a creditor. The action is ejectment based
on a title derived from a sale under such an execution, and was
brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Fayette County,
State of Pennsylvania. The case was submitted upon the following statement of facts:
"It is agreed that title to the premises in dispute was in
Samuel B. G. Jobes on the 5th day of September, A. D. 1882.
That on that date the said Jobes conveyed the same to the defendant, Sarah J. McIlntosh, by deed duly executed and delivered,

