ST. LOUIS CONS. COAL CO. v,. ILLINOIS.
Statement of the Case.

ST. LOUIS CONSOLIDATED COAL COMPANY v.
ILLINOIS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 197. Submitted March 19, 1902.-Decided April 14, 1902.
It is within the power of a state legislature to provide for the appointment of inspectors of mines and the payment of their fees by the owners
of the mines.
A law providing for the inspection of coal mines is not unconstitutional by
reason of its limitation to mines where more than five men are employed
at any one time.
Where the law provided for an inspection of coal mines at least four times
a year, it was held not to be objectionable by reason of the fact that a
discretion was invested in the inspectors to cause the mines to be inspected more than four times a year, and as often as they might deem it
necessary and proper.
A law providing that the fees for each inspection shall not be less than six
nor more than ten dollars is not rendered unconstitutional by the fact
that, within these limits, the fees for each inspection are fixed by the
inspector.

THIS was an action of assumpsit originally brought in the
Circuit Court of St. Clair County by the people of the State of
Illinois against the Consolidated Coal Company of St. Louis, a
corporation of Illinois, to recover the sum of $1818 for the fees
of state mine inspectors for the inspection of certain coal mines
located in Illinois, owned and operated by the defendant under
"An act providing for the health and safety of persons employed in coal mines," originally enacted May 28, 1879, and the
amendments thereto.
The case was submitted to the court without a jury upon a
stipulation of facts, in which it was agreed that the mines of
the defendant, thirty-one in number, had been inspected between November 2, 1895, and June 26, 1899, by a state inspector, whole aggregate fees were $1818; that the Secretary of
the Bureau of Labor Statistics presented the defendant with
the inspection bills and demanded payment therefor, which defendant refused to pay.

OCTO1ER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

It was further stipulated that the charge for the recovery of
which this action was brought was made in pursuance of the
act of May 28,1879, and that the question to be raised and disposed of was the validity and constitutionality of so much of
said above entitled act and the amendments thereto, as related
to the inspection fees of the said mine inspectors, and the imposing upon the mine operator and owner the duty of paying
such fees, and also whether there was any remedy at law to
recover such fees.
A judgment having been entered for the payment of these
fees the case was carried by writ of error to the Supreme Court,
where the judgment of the Circuit Court of St. Clair County
was affirmed.
Xr. Charles V. Thomas for plaintiff in error.
.i'. Hfowland J.Hamlin for defendant in error.
MRi.

JUSTiE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The act of the general assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled an act to provide for the health and safety of persons
employed in coal mines, originally passed May 28, 1879, subsequently incorporated in the Revised Statutes of 1895, and
amended in 1897, Hurd's Statutes, 1897, p. 1088, c. 93, provides as printed in the margin.1
S"SEc. 11 a. This State shall be divided into seven inspection districts,
as follows:" etc.
"SEC. 11 b. The Governor shall, upon the recommendation of a board of
examiners selected for that purpose, composed of two practical coal
miners, two coal operators, and one mining engineer, to be appointed by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics of this State, all of whom shall be sworn to
a faithful discharge of their duties, appointseven properly qualifiedpersons
tofill the offices of inspectors of coal mines of this State (being one inspector
for each district, provided for in this act), whose commissions shall be for
the term of two years, but they shall at all times be subject to removal
from office, for neglect of duty or malfeasance in the discharge of duty, as
hereinafter provided for.
"SEc. 11 c. The inspectors so appointed shall have attained the age of
thirty years, be citizens of this state, and have a knowledge of mining en-

ST. LOUIS CONS. COAL CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court found that all the state questions involved in this case had been disposed of in Chicago, Wilmington
gineering sufficient to conduct the development of coal mines, and a
practical knowledge of the methods of conducting mining for coal in the
presence of explosive gases, and of the proper ventilation of coal mines.
They shall have had a practical mining experience of ten years,'and shall
not be interested as owner, operator, stockholder, superintendent or mining engineer of any coal mine during their term of office, and shall be of
good moral character and temperate habits, and shall not be guilty of any
act tending to the injury of miners or operators of mines during their term
of office. They shall provide themselves with the most approved modern
instruments for carrying out the intention of this act," etc.
" SEC. lid. Any person, company or corporation operating any coal mine
in this State shall be required to pay an inspectionfee of not less than six dollars nor more than ten dollars .for each visit of inspection or investigation
of a coal mine by a state mine inspector, such fee to be regulated by the class
of the mine, which shall be fixed by the inspector and depend upon the length of
time consumed, and the expense necessarily incurred in the inspection of
such mine, and such fees shall be paid quarterly by the person, company or
corporation operating the mine inspected to the Secretary of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics and by him covered into the state treasury to be held as
a fund for the payment of salaries of state Mine Inspectors, as herein provided. It shall be the duty of each inspector, as often as he may deem it necessary and proper, and at least four times a year, to inspect each and every
mine in his inspection district. Each inspection shall be certified to by the
pit committee and mine manager of said mine. It shall be the duty of
each inspector to keep a detailed record of all inspections and of all fees
for such inspections, and he shall file a copy of the same with the Secretary
of the state Bureau of Labor Statistics quarterly, between the first and fifteenth days -of the following months: October, January, April and July,
which reports shall be published annually as a part of the regular report
of the state Bureau of Labor Statistics. The inspectors provided for in
this act shall receive as full compensation for their services the sum of
eighteen hundred dollars each per annum, to be paid quarterly out of such
funds in the state treasury as may be received for inspection fees: Provided, however, That in the event of such fees being inadequate to compensate the inspectors in the amount provided herein, the deficiency in the
salaries shall be paid out of any moneys in the state treasury not otherwise appropriated. The mine inspector shall be required to post up in
some conspicuous place at the top of each mine visited and inspected by
him, a plain statement of the condition of said mine, showing what in his
judgment is necessary for the better protection of the lives and health of
persons employed in said mine; such statement shall give the date of inspection and the number of hours spent in the inspection, also the date of
the latest previous inspection, and shall be signed by the inspector and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

& Ve'rmilion &c. Coal Co. v. The People, 181 Ill. 270. It only
remains for us to determine whether the validity of the state
statute above cited was drawn in question on the ground of its
repugnancy to the Constitution and laws of the United States,
and the decision was in favor of its validity, when it should
have been held invalid. While the constitutionality of the law
was not specially set up and claimed before the trial in the Circuit Court, there was a motion made in arrest of judgment, in
which the invalidity of the statute was specially set up upon
the ground of its repugnancy to the Fourteenth Amendment to
the Constitution. The motion was denied, although the Sucheck weighman, and, if there be no check weighman, employed by the
miners, then said statement shall be signed by the weighman at the mine.
"SEC. Ile. It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation
to operate any coal mine in this State without first having complied with
all the conditions and sanitary regulations required under existing laws
and paying all inspection fees provided for in this section; and in case of
the refusal of any person, company, corporation, owner, agent or operator
to pay said inspection fees, after assuming to operate a coal mine, it shall
be the duty of the mine inspector in said district, through the State's attorney of the county, or any other attorney, in case of his refusal promptly
to act, to proceed on behalf of the State against said person, company, corporation, owner, agent or operator of said mine, by injunction, without
bond, to restrain said person, company, corporation, owner, agent or operator from continuing or attempting to continue to operate said mine or
carry on a mining business."
In 1897 section lie was amended so as to read as follows, the words in
italics being inserted into the paragraph as it was originally enacted (Session Laws, 1897, p. 269):
"Sxc. lie. It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation
to operate any coal mine in this State, where more thanfive men are employed at any one time, without first having complied with all the conditions and sanitary regulations required under existing laws, and paying all
inspection fees provided for in this section, and in case of the refusal of
any person, company, corporation, owner, agent or operator to pay said
inspection fees, after assuming to operate a coal mine, it shall be the duty
of the mine inspector in said district, through the State's attorney of the
county, or any other attorney, in case of his refusal to promptly act, to
proceed on behalf of the State against said person, company, corporation,
owner, agent or operator of said mine by injunction, without bond, to restrain said person, company, corporation, owner, agent or operator from
continuing or attempting to continue, to operate said mine or carry on a
mining business."

ST. LOUIS CONS. COAL CO v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

preme Court did not in terms pass upon the Federal constitutionality of the law. But this was a sufficient presentation of
the Federal question.
The regulation of mines and miners, their hours of labor, and
the precautions that shall be taken to ensure their safety, health
and comfort, are so obviously within the police power of the
several States, that no citation of authorities is necessary to
vindicate the general principle. Many of these cases are reviewed in Holden v. ffardy, 169 U. S. 366, in which it was held
to be competent for a state legislature to limit the hours of
labor, in mines and smelting works, to eight per day.
1. We do not understand the general principle to be questioned that the State may appoint mining inspectors, and provide for their payment by the owners of mines, Packet Co. v.
St. Louis, 100 U. S. 423; 3-organ v. Louisiana,118 U. S. 455;
Nashville &c. Railway v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96, 121; County
of -Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691; Charlotte &c. R. 1R. v.
Gibbes, 142 U. S. 386; Chicago &c. Coal Company v. People, 181
Ill. 270; but it is insisted that the acts here involved, in so far
as they give to district mining inspectors, a discretion as to the
number of times they shall inspect such mines, and a further
discrimination as to what fees they shall charge, within the
limit fixed by these acts, is in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment, forbidding a State from depriving any person of
life, liberty or property without due process of law, or denying
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the
law.
2. Another question is whether the act, as amended in 1897,
in so far as it discriminates as to penalties imposed upon some
persons engaged in the mining business, and not upon others,
is a proper exercise of the police power. It is true that the
act of 1897 amended the former law of 1895, by limiting its
application to coal mines "where more than five men are employed at any one time." This is a species of classification
which the legislature is at liberty to adopt, provided it be not
wholly arbitrary or unreasonable, as it was in Cotting v. Ian.
sas City Stock Yards Company, 183 U. S. 79, in which an act
defining what should constitute public stock yards and regulat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ing all charges connected therewith was held to be unconstitutional, because it applied only to one particular company, and
not to other companies or corporations engaged in a like business in, Kansas, and thereby denied to that company the equal
protection of the laws. In the case under consideration there
is no attempt arbitrarily to select one mine for inspection, but
only to assume that mines, which are worked upon so small a
scale as to require only five operatives, would not be likely to
need the careful inspection provided for the larger mines, where
the workings were carried on upon a larger scale or at a greater
depth from the surface, and where a much larger force would be
necessary for their successful operation. It is quite evident that
a mine which is operated by only five men could scarcely have
passed the experimental stage, or that precautions necessary in
the operation of coal mines of ordinary magnitude would be required in such cases. There was clearly reasonable foundation
for a discrimination here.
It is true that the act of 1897 does not in terms declare that
the act of 1895 shall only apply to coal mines where more than
five men are employed at any one time, but merely exempts the
owners of such mines from punishment for violations of the general law. No one, however, can read this act, in connection
with the prior act of 1895, without perceiving an intention
on the part of the legislature to exempt such mines from the
scope of the act. An act which declares it to be unlawful for
any person to operate mines of a certain class without first
complying with all the conditions and sanitary regulations required under existing laws, and paying all inspection fees, and,
in case of refusal, to make it the duty of the mine inspector,
through the State's attorney, to proceed in behalf of the State
against such person, to compel the discontinuance of the mine,
is so plainly an exemption from the operation of the law of all
other mines as to constitute a classification in their favor.
3. Another charge is that by section 11 d," it shall be the
duty of each inspector, as often as he may deem it necessary and
proper,and at least four times a year, to inspect each and every
mine in his inspection district." It requires no argument to
show that, for the protection of the operatives, one mine may be

ST. LOUIS CONS. COAL CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

required to be inspected oftener than another, depending largely
upon the number of miners, the depths of their workings and
the nature of the ground through which the excavations are
made. While at a certain stage of excavation the precautions
imposed by the mining inspector may be quite adequate for the
protection of the operatives, at another time the same precautions would be obviously insufficient, depending largely upon
the rapidity with which the excavations were made and the
changes of air observed as the excavations progressed.
It is true that the act itself furnishes no basis for a classification as to the number of inspections and as to the price charged
in each case, except that it provides that no inspection shall be
required, unless five operatives are employed at the same time,
that at least four inspections shall be made each year, and that
the fees shall be dependent upon the length of time consumed,
and the expense necessarily incurred in the inspection of such
mine. It also provides that the charges for each inspection
shall not be less than six nor more than ten dollars.
It is insisted that such classification of mines, as to the number of inspections and fees therefor, should be made by the legislature, and nothing be left to the inspectors or other officers
to determine the number of times a particular mine shall be inspected and the fees chargeable therefor. The ordinary classification is made by the legislature, where such classification can
be logically made, either upon the basis of capital stock, number of operatives, mileage, or other facts which can be seized
upon as an easy and an approximately just basis for classification. But in such a case as this there are so many elements
entering into the classification as to make it impossible to seize
upon one or two, and make them the only basis. For instance,
the number of inspections to be made might depend not only
upon the size of the mines, and the number of the operatives, but
upon the character of the work being done, the nature of the
soil being excavated, the depth of the excavation and a dozen
other features, all of which might enter into the basis of a classification by a competent inspector, and no one of which can be
said to be determinative.
We do not regard the act as necessarily violative of the FourVOL. Crxxxv-l4

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

teenth Amendment, in the fact that some discretion is allowed
to the inspector in determining the number of times the mines
shall be inspected, and the fees fixed therefor, particularly in
view of the fact that no complaint is made of the abuse of such
discretion, or that the inspector has been "guilty of any act
tending to the injury of miners or operators of mines during
their term of office." Sec. 11 c.
While it is undoubtedly true that legislative power cannot be
delegated to the courts or to the executive, there are some exceptions to the rule under which it is held that Congress may
leave to the President the power of determining the time when
or exigency upon the happening of which a certain act shall
take effect. Thus in the leading case of Tlie Aurora,7 Cranch,
382, it was held that Congress might make the revival of a law
conditional upon a fact then contingent, and empower the President to declare by proclamation that such fact has occurred and
the law revived. It has also been the immemorable policy in
this country and in England to vest in municipal organizations
certain local powers in respect to which they are peculiarly interested, and of the necessities of which they are much better
informed than a general legislature possibly could be. Other
instances are cited by Judge Cooley in his work upon Constitutional Limitations: "For the like reasons the question whether
a county or a-township shall be divided and a new one formed,
or two townships or school districts, formerly one, be reunited,
or a county seat be located at a particular place, or after its location removed elsewhere, or the municipality contract particular duties, or engage in a particular improvement, is always a
question which may be with propriety referred to the voters of
the municipality for decision."
The last case in this court in which the question arose, is that
of Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, in which it was held that while
Congress could not under the Constitution delegate its legislative power to the President, it might authorize him to suspend,
by proclamation, the free introduction of sugar, coffee and similar articles, when he was satisfied that any country producing
such articles imposed duties, or other exactions, upon the prod-

ST. LOUIS CONS. COAL CO. v. ILLINOIS.
Opinion of the Court.

ucts of the United States which he might deem to be reciprocally unequal or unreasonable.
In enacting a law with regard to the inspection of mines, we
see no objection, in case the legislature find it impracticable to
classify the mines for the purposes of inspection, to commit that
power to a body of experts who are not only experienced in the
operation of mines, but are acquainted with the details necessary to be known to make a reasonable classification, although
it may affect the amount of fees to be paid by the mine owners.
It is obviously necessary that the number of inspections per
year shall be determined by some one and by some executive
officer. As it is clearly a matter of detail which could not be
determined by the courts, it occurs to us that it could be entrusted to no one so safely as to the inspector of the district, who
is appointed with great care, and who must be thirty years of
age, a citizen of the State, and have a knowledge of mining engineering sufficient to conduct the development of coal mines
and a practical knowledge of the method of conducting the
mining for coal in the presence of explosive gases and of the
ventilation of coal mines. Each one must have a practical mining experience of ten years, not interested as owner, operator,
stockholder, superintendent or mining engineer of any coal mine
during his term of office, and be of good moral character and
temperate habits.
The stipulation upon which the case was tried shows that the
defendants were the owners of thirty-one mines, and that they
were inspected between November 22, 1895, and June 26, 1899,
two hundred and forty times, which was at the rate of about
seventy-eight times per year for all of the thirty-one mines, or
about two and one half times per year for each mine. As section 11 d of the act requires each inspector to inspect each and
every mine in his district at least four times a year, it would
seem that instead of overdoing his duty, he had been derelict in
the performance of it.
4. It is also true that the fees for each inspection shall not be
less than six dollars nor more than ten dollars, and that such
fees shall be regulated by the class of the mine, which shall be
fixed by the inspector and depend upon the length of time con-

.OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

sumed and the expense necessarily incurred in the inspection of
such mine. Objection is made upon the ground that it gives to
each mining inspector not only the right to determine the number of times each mine shall be inspected, but the fees to be
charged in each case. If his discretion were unlimited in this
direction, and the fees were retained by himself, there would
be much force in the suggestion; but the truth is that the
amount of the fee must be in each case somewhere between six
dollars and ten dollars, and must be paid to the Secretary of the
Bureau of Labor Statistics, and by him covered into the State
treasury, to be held as a fund for the payment of the salaries of
the mining inspectors. Each inspector provided for by the act
receives for his services $1800 per annum, to be paid quarterly
out of the funds in the state treasury received for the inspection fees, and in the event of such fees being inadequate to coinpensate such inspectors in the amount provided for herein, the
deficiency of the salaries shall be paid out of the money in the
state treasury not otherwise appropriated. It appears, then,
Jrst, that the state inspector receives a regular salary, neither
increased nor diminished by the number of inspections or the
amount paid for each inspection; and, second, that he receives
such salary directly from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and
not from the fees paid to him therefor. As his compensation
is dependent neither upon the number of his visits nor upon
the amount of his fees, it is difficult to see how he would gain
by multiplying one or magnifying the other. We know of no
reason why the legislature should deprive itself of the best attainable evidence of the facts it seeks to make determinative of
these two questions.
As we fail to discover any repugnancy between the acts in
question and the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution,
we are of opinion that the decree of the Supreme Court was
right, and should be
Aflbmed.

