RODGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

It may be said that the action of the Circuit Court in dismissing the bill may have been based on the fact that the city had
proceeded by a bill filed in the Chancery Court of Mississippi
against the waterworks company before the present suit was
instituted. But the learned judge does not, in his certificate,
suggest such a question, and the bill avers that the record in
the city's suit is still pending in the Circuit Court on a motion
to remand. Whether the city's complaint in the state court
disclosed a Federal question, and what, if properly removed to
the Circuit Court for that reason, the course of the Circuit Court
ought to be in respect to the formal disposition of the cases, are
matters not before us for determination.
Nor can we consider allegations made in behalf of the city
in its answer as to misconduct of the waterworks company, in
respect to which no issue was found nor proofs taken in the
court below. They must be determined by the proper tribunals,
which will pass upon the merits of the case.
We think this cause presents a controversy so arising under
the laws and Constitution of the United States as to give the
Circuit Court jurisdiction, and therefore the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Reversed, and the cause remanded to that cout to take proceedings therein accordingto law.

RODGERS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAMS.
No. 317. Argued February 26, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

Where there are two statutes, the earlier special and the later general, (the
tprms of the general being broad enough to include the matter provided
for in the special,) the fact that the one is special and the other is general
creates a presumption that the special is to be considered as remaining
an exception to tle general, and the general will not be understood as
repealing the special, unless a repeal is expressly named, or unless the
provisions of the general are manifestly inconsistent with those of the
special.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
Section 7 of the act of March 3, 1899, c. 413, 30 Stat. 1004, in effect abolishes
the rank of Commodore, at least as far as respects the active list of the
line of the Navy, and lifts those in that rank to that of Rear Admiral.
Clearly that was a special provision in respect to which the attention of
Congress was at the time directed, and when in section 13 Congress prescribed a general rule for the salaries of naval officers, such general rule
cannot be understood as repealing that special provision.
That section fixed the amount of the salary but did not affect any general
provisions of law affecting a difference between salary while at sea and
while on shore.

THIS is an appeal from the Court of Claims. The claimant,
Frederick Rodgers, a Rear Admiral of the line of the Navy,
brought suit to recover the sum of $3358.13, which he claims
as the balance due him on account of pay and allowances for
the period between March 3, 1899, and March 2, 1901. The
claim is founded upon the law of Congress, known as the " Navy
Personnel Act," which was approved on March 3, 1899, c. 113,
and entitled " An act to reorganize and increase the efficiency of
the personnel of the Navy and Marine Corps of the 'United
States." 30 Stat. 1004.
The applicable sections are seven and thirteen, which, omitting
irrelevant portions, read:
"SEc. 7. That the active list of the line of the Navy, as constituted by section one of this act, shall be composed of eighteen rear admirals, seventy captains, one hundred and twelve
commanders, one hundred and seventy lieutenant commanders,
three hundred lieutenants, and not more than a total of three
hundred and fifty lieutenants (junior grade) and ensigns: _Provided, That each rear admiral embraced in the nine lower numbers of that grade shall receive the same pay and allowance as
are now allowed a brigadier general in the Army. Officers,
after performing three years' service in the grade of ensign,
shall, after passing the examinations now required by law, be
eligible to promotion to the grade of lieutenant (junior grade):
Provided, That when the office of chief of bureau is filled by
an officer below the rank of rear admiral, said officer shall,
while holding said office, have the rank of rear admiral and receive the same pay and allowance as are now allowed a brigadier general in the Army: And providedfurther,That nothing

RODGERS i. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

contained in this section shall be construed to prevent the retirement of officers who now have the rank or relative rank of
commodore with the rank and pay of that grade.
"SEc. 13. That, after June thirtieth, eighteen hundred and
ninety-nine, commissioned officers of the line of the Navy and of
the Medical and Pay Corps shall receive the same pay and allowances, except forage, as are or may be provided by or in
pursuance of law for the officers of corresponding rank in the
Army: Provided, That such officers when on shore shall receive the allowances, but fifteen per centum less pay than when
on sea duty; but this provision shall not apply to warrant officers commissioned under section twelve of this act: Provided,
further, That when naval officers are detailed for shore duty
beyond seas they shall receive the same pay and allowances as
are or may be provided by or in pursuance of law for officers
of the Army detailed for duty in similar places.

.

.

.

And

*providedfurther,That no provision of this act shall operate to
reduce the present pay of any commissioned officer now in the
Navy; and in any case in which the pay of such an officer would
otherwise be reduced he shall continue to rdceive pay according
to existing law: And provided further,That nothing in this
act shall operate to increase or reduce the pay of any officer
now on the retired list of the Navy."
By section 1466 of the Revised Statutes of the United States
it was, among other things, provided:
"Sxc. 1466. The relative rank between officers of the Navy,
whether on the active or retired list, and officers of- the Army,
shall be as follows, lineal rank only being considered:
"Rear admirals with major generals.
"Commodores with brigadier generals."
"Captains with colonels."
The findings show that the claimant was appointed and commissioned a rear admiral on March 3, 1899. From that date
until March 2, 1901, he was one of the rear admirals "embraced
in the nine lower numbers of that grade." He served on shore
from March 3, 1899, to February 13, 1901, and for the rest of
the time at sea. While at sea he received the same pay as was

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"allowed a brigadier general in the army," and while on shore
he received pay at the same rate less fifteen per centum, together
with commutation in lieu of allowance of quarters. Judgment
was rendered in favor of the United States, 36 C. 01. 266, from
which judgment the claimant took this appeal.
M'. James H. Hayden for appellant.
Cammon was on his brief.

.Mr. Joseph K..c-

21br. Assistant Attorney General Pradt for appellee.
Joohn Q. Tiompson was on his brief.
M

.JUsT'ME

BREWER,

i",.

after making the above statement, de-

livered the opinion of the court.
This case involves a mere question of statutory construction.
The matter of military and naval salaries is one exclusively
within the control of Congress. The courts may neither increase
nor decrease them, correct any supposed inequalities, nor in any
manner set aside or modify the action of the legislative branch
of the Government in respect thereto. If there be inequality,
injustice, it can be corrected alone by Congress, and the courts
may not interfere.
The primary rule of statutory construction is, of course, to
give effect to the intention of the legislature. Whenever that
is apparent it dominates and interprets the language used. But
when the intent is a debatable question, and there is nothing
on the face of the statute which clearly indicates such intent,
there are certain minor and subsidiary rules by which courts are
guided in determining the true construction.
In the case at bar neither the words of the statute nor
the circumstances and conditions of this legislation make perfectly clear the intent of Congress. If we look alone upon section 13, we may well conclude that Congress had one thought in
its mind, while if we turn to section 7 another and somewhat different intent is apparent. Section 13 suggests a complete parallel in the matter of pay between all the officers of the Navy
and those of the Army according to their several ranks. See-

RODGERS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tion 7, on the other hand, points to a special exception in respect to one half the officers of a certain rank in the Navy.
The ingenious and plausible arguments made by counsel on the
respective sides clearly show that it is a debatable question
whether Congress intended that after the first of July, 1899,
there should be only one uniform rule controlling the pay of all
the respective officers of the Army and the Navy, or whether
as to one half of the rear admirals a different rule was contemplated. Under those circumstances of doubt we turn to other
rules of statutory construction.
Before noticing them it is well to understand exactly the contentions of the parties. The claimant insists that the first proviso in section 7 establishes a complete but temporary rule for
the payment of the nine lower members of the grade of rear
admiral; that no provisions of other sections of this statute, or
of any other statute, limit or qualify the right of the nine junior
rear admirals to the full pay given by statute to a brigadier general. On the other hand, the Government contends that the
proviso is subject to the general rule which obtains in respect to
all other naval officers, of a fifteen per cent difference between
the pay when on shore duty and that when at sea. Again, the
claimant insists that by section 13, after the 30th day of June,
1899, all rear admirals became entitled to the pay and allowances of major generals in the army, and that the proviso in
section 7, in respect to the nine junior rear admirals, was temporary in its nature, and expired on the 30th of June, 1899;
while the Government contends that the distinction between
the nine senior and the nine junior rear admirals is a permanent
provision, and did not cease to have force on the 30th of June,
1899.
It is a canon of statutory construction that a later statute,
general in its terms and not expressly repealing a prior special
statute, will ordinarily not affect the special provisions of such
earlier statute. In other words, where there are two statutes,
the earlier special and the later general-the terms of the general broad enough to include the matter provided for in the
special-the fact that the one is special and the other is general
creates a presumption that the special is to be considered as re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

maining an exception to the general, and the general will not
be understood as repealing the special, unless a repeal is expressly named, or unless the provisions of the general are manifestly inconsistent with those of the special. In Ex
rpa'te
Crow Dog, 109 U. S.556, 570, this court said:
"The language of the exception is special and express; the
words relied on as a repeal are general and inconclusive. The
rule is generalia secialibus non derogant. ' The general principle to be applied,' said Bovill, C. J., in Thorpe v. Adams, (L.
R.6 C. P. 135,) 'to the construction of acts of Parliament is
that a general act is not to be construed to repeal a previous
particular act, unless there is some express reference to the previous legislation on the subject, or unless there is a necessary
inconsistency in the two acts standing together.' IAnd the
reason is,' said Wood, V. C., in Filzgerald v. Chanmpenys, (30
L. J. N. S. Eq. 782; 2 Jobns. & HIem. 31, 54,) 'that the legislature having had its attention directed to a special subject, and
having observed all the circumstances of the case and provided
for them, does not intend by a general enactment afterwards
to derogate from its own act when it makes no special mention
of its intention so to do."'
In Black on Interpretation of Laws, 116, the proposition is
thus stated:
"As a corollary from the doctrine that implied repeals are
not favored, it has come to be an established rule in the construction of statutes that a subsequent act, treating a subject
in general terms and not expressly contradicting the provisions
of a prior special statute, is not to be considered as intended to
affect the more particular and specific provisions of the earlier
act, unless it is absolutely necessary so to construe it in order
to give its words any meaning at all."
So, in Sedgwick on the Construction of Statutory and Constitutional Law, the author observes, on page 98, with respect
to this rule:
"The reason and philosophy of the rule is, that when the mind
of the legislator has been turned to the details of a subject,
and he has acted upon it, a subsequent statute in general terms
or treating the subject in a general. manner and not expressly

RODGERS ,'. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

contradicting the original act, shall not be considered as intended to affect the more particular or positive previous provisions, unless it is absolutely necessary to give the latter act
such a construction, in order that its words shall have any
meaning at all."
And in Craane v. Reeder, 22 Michigan, 322, 331, Mr. Justice
Christiancy, speaking for the Supreme Court of that State,
said:
"Where there are two acts or provisions, one of which is
special and particular, and certainly includes the matter in
question, and the other general, which, if standing alone, would
include the same matter and thus conflict with the special act
or provision, the special must be taken as intended to constitute
an exception to the general act or provision, especially when
such general and special acts or provisions are contemporaneous,
as the legislature is not to be presumed to have intended a conflict."
Both the text books and the opinion just quoted cite many
supporting authorities.
In the light of this canon, how should these two sections
be construed? Section 7 in effect abolishes the rank of commodore, at least so far as respects the active list of the line of
the Navy, and lifts those in that rank to that of rear admiral.
The attention of Congress was thus directed to such change,
and the proper accompanying provisions in respect to salary
and otherwise, and it declared that the lower nine rear admirals,
they who were by the section lifted to that rank, should receive
a particular salary. Clearly that was a special provision in respect to a matter to which the attention of Congress was at the
time directed. If another statute had been passed at a subsequent or on the same day making general provision for the salaries of naval officers, clearly the canon to which we have
referred would apply. A fortiori,when the subsequent general
provision is in the same statute it should be held applicable.
So, when in section 13, Congress prescribed a general rule for
the salaries of naval officers, such general rule cannot within
the scope of this canon be understood as repealing the special
provision in the prior section, but the special provision must
be taken as an exception to and limitation of the general rule.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

But it is said that harmony between the two may be obtained
by limiting the operation of the special provision to the period
between the passage of the act and the 30th of June following.
But that necessitates adding something to the words of the special provision, so that it shall read that from the date of the act
until the 30th of June following such should be the rule in respect to the salaries of the recently promoted commodores. But
the same harmony can be obtained by adding to the general
provision a clause like this: Except in respect to the nine lower
numbers of the grade of rear admiral. In either case the harmony is secured by adding some words of qualification, and the
rule, as we have seen, is to the effect that the additional words
of qualification are to be put to the general provision rather than
to the special.
It is urged that the provision in section 7 was intended to
merely fill out the present fiscal year, and that Congress meant
by this legislation to start the new fiscal year, July 1, 1899,
with one general rule of equality between the pay of officers of
the Navy and that of officers of the Army. There might have
been some force in this suggestion if the pay of the nine lower
rear admirals had been continued through the balance of the
year the same as it was at the date of the passage of the act.
But all of them, whether commodores or captains, were by this
special provision given an increase of pay. So Congress was
not simply continuing salaries, but was making special provision for the nine lower numbers of the grade of rear admirals,
giving them an increase of pay over that which they had previously received.
Another matter worthy of notice is this: Prior to the act of
March 3, 1899, the corresponding ranks of officers of the Navy
and the Army were rear admiral and major general, coimmodore and brigadier general, captain and colonel. By that act
the rank of commodore was abolished, although that of brigadier
general was undisturbed. No change was made in the relative
rank of captain and colonel, or of rear admiral and major general, but the legislation left one rank in the Army to which
there was no corresponding rank in the Navy. The statute in
effect lifted the rank in the Navy which was corresponding to

RODGERS v. UNITEgD STA'TES.
Opinion of the Court.

that of brigadier general in the Army to that of rear admiral,
and corresponding with that of major general in the Army.
The individuals thus raised in rank were not so raised on account of distinguished services or for any personal reason, but
simply in consequence of the abolition of the official rank they
had held. Is it unreasonable to believe that Congress thought
it unwise to give to those officers (who had neither by length
of service or by personal distinction become entitled to the position of rear admiral, as it had stood in the past) all the benefits
of such position? Would it be unnatural for Congress to bear
in mind those who by length of service or by personal distinction had already earned the position, and provide that in, at
least, the matter of pay there should be some recognition of the
fact? Again, is it unreasonable to believe that Congress intended that those officers whose past services placed them according to the prior relative rank side by side with brigadier
generals of the Army, should not by a mere change of statute
be given a benefit in salary which was not at the same time accorded to brigadier generals in the Army? May not this explain its action in so dividing the rear admirals into two classesone composed substantially of former rear admirals, equal both
in rank and pay with major generals in the Army, and the
other of those who in the past were only commodores, to whom
was given the rank of rear admirals, but the pay of brigadier
generals in the Army?
Still another matter may be mentioned. The second proviso
of section 7 reads:

"P rovided, That when the office of chief of bureau is filled
by an officer below the rank of rear admiral, said officer shall,
while holding said office, have the rank of rear admiral and
receive the same pay and allowance as are now allowed a brigadier general in the army."
There is no similar clause in section 13. Why should Congress in section 7 make provision for the rank and pay of certain officers who during the ensuing four months might be
charged with certain duties, and omit any such provision in
prescribing salaries generally and permanently? Is it not reasonable to believe that Congress intended this as a special pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

vision which should continue after the 30th of June, 1899, and
as a permanent rule for the cases named ?
These considerations certainly tend to support the conclusion
which follows from enforcing the well-recognized canon of construction in respect to special an d general statutes. We think
the Court of Claims was correct when it said:
"Section 13 is in general terms, and the language there used
does not indicate that it was the intention of the Congress to
abrogate the special provision made in section 7 for the rear
admirals 'embraced in the nine lower numbers of that grade;'
and special provision having been made for them it cannot be
held that a subsequent general statute, much less in the same
act, was intended to alter or repeal the special provision so
made."
The further question is whether the provision in section 7,
that the rear admirals embraced in the nine lower numbers of
that grade should receive such pay and allowances as were
given to brigadier generals, was intended to be absolute and
exclusive, practically ignoring the general rule in respect to
naval service of a difference between the pay of officers doing
shore duty and that of those at sea? When there has been a
long-established rule of difference in the compensation for the
two kinds of services; when that rule is expressly recognized
and continued in this same statute, as it is in section 13, when
it is not in terms excluded in section 7, it would be going too
far to hold it inapplicable to the salary provided for by section 7. In other words, it is not to be believed that Congress
by that section carved out a salary which in all respects ignored
the general rules pertaining to salaries of naval officers. It is
rather to be believed that only the amount was fixed, and that
otherwise it was to be in harmony with and subordinate to any
and all general provisions. We are of opinion that the Court
of Claims was right in its conclusions in this respect.
It may be conceded that the questions we have been considering are not free from doubt, and much may be said in favor
of the view opposed to that we have taken. Inasmuch as Congress has full control over the matter of salaries it can at any
time appropriate to these officers such a sum as will make their

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Statement of the Case.

salaries that which they contend was intended by the act of
March 3, 1899. It is not a case in which the judicial decision
must necessarily be a finality, but one in which there is full
power on the part of Congress to correct any mistake which
may have been made.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Afflmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

took no part in the decision of this case.

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 491. Argued February 25, 26, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
The time at which a party appeals to a court of equity for relief affects
largely the character of the relief which will be granted.
A failure to pursue statutory remedies is not always fatal to the rights of
a party in possession, and if full and adequate compensation is made
to the plaintiff, sometimes the possession of the defendant will not be
disturbed.
A court of equity may take possession and finally end a controversy like
the present by securing the payment of adequate compensation in lieu of
a cessation of the trespass.

THIS was a suit commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York by the appellees,
as plaintiffs, for an injunction, restraining the city of New York
from maintaining a dam on the West Branch of Byram River
and diverting the waters thereof from their natural flow through
the farms of plaintiffs.
The facts are these: Byram River is a non-navigable stream
of fresh water flowing into Long Island Sound. Tracing its
source up stream from the Sound, for a short distance it forms
the boundary between New York and Connecticut, then deflects to the east, and for some five or six miles is within the

