OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

EXCELSIOR WOODEN PIPE COMPANY v. PACIFIC
BRIDGE COMPANY.
APPREA.L FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 375. Submitted February 3, 1902.-Decided lay 5, 1902.
Where the decree of a Circuit Court and the order allowing an appeal both
state that the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, no separate certificate is necessary, and the appeal may be taken at any time within two
years.
If a bill be brought to enforce or set aside a contract, though such contract
be connected with a patent, it is not a suit under the patent laws, and the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court can only be maintained upon the ground
of diversity of citizenship.
Although the bill be an ordinary bill for the infringement of a patent, of
which the Circuit Court would have jurisdiction, if the answer show that
it is really a suit upon a contract the court should dismiss the bill.
Where a bill is filed by a licensee (the license being set up merely to show
the title of the plaintiff to the patent) against the patentee and another
party to whom the patentee has granted a conflicting license, the jurisdiction of the court is not ousted by reason of allegations in the answer
that the plaintiff had forfeited all his rights under the license by failure
to comply with its terms and conditions, by reason of which the license
had been revoked by the patentee.
THIS was a bill in equity filed by the Excelsior Wooden Pipe
Company, a California corporation, against the Pacific Bridge
Company, also a California corporation, but having a branch in
the city of Seattle, Washington, and Charles P. Allen, for the
infringement of a patent issued to Allen, one of the defendants,
for a wooden pipe.
Beside the usual allegations of a bill for the infringement of
the plaintiff averred that, prior to the acts charged
patent,
a
against the respondents, the said Charles P. Allen, one of the
defendants, had granted December 20, 1892, unto the Excelsior
Redwood Company, a California corporation, the exclusive right
within the Pacific States of manufacturing and selling wooden
pipe under his patent to the full end of its term; that the Ex-

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

283

Statement of the Case.

celsior Redwood Company had, with the written consent of
Allen, the patentee, on December 22, 1892, transferred unto the
Excelsior Wooden Pipe Company, plaintiff, the said exclusive
license to it, from Allen, with all rights and privileges thereunder, and that Allen had been, and still was, the exclusive
owner of the patent, and the plaintiff the sole and exclusive
licensee; that the plaintiff has ever since and still is engaged in
the manufacture and sale of the patented articles, and has filled
all orders therefor, and is well known as the exclusive licensee,
and that Allen has joined with the plaintiff in suits against infringers of his patent, all of which have resulted in his favor.
The gravamen of the bill lies in the allegation that, notwithstanding all this, the defendant, the Pacific Bridge Company,
and the said Allen, have since such license conspired to make
and sell, and without the license and consent of your orator,
exclusive licensee as aforesaid, have made and sold, within one
year last past, within the State of Washington, wooden pipe
substantially the same as that described in the patent and embodying the invention; and therefore it brought this bill to recover damages for this infringement and for an injunction.
The answer, which was a joint one of both defendants, admitted the issue and validity of the patent and its ownership by
defendant Allen. It is also admitted a license by defendant
Allen to plaintiff's assignor, whereby the latter obtained the
exclusive right to make and sell the patented articles in the territory described, and set out the license in full; but it denied
that this license was a subsisting one, and alleged an abandonment of the same by the plaintiff, a forfeiture of all rights
thereunder by failure and refusal to comply with its terms and
conditions, and by acts of bad faith toward the patentee by seeking to defeat the patent and destroy its monopoly; and a revocation of the license by Allen for cause in pursuance of the terms
of the contract. It also set up that after the alleged revocation
of the license the defendant Allen granted a license to his joint
defendant, the Pacific Bridge Company. In short, the only
defence was a denial of the license which lies at the basis of
plaintiff's suit, and constitutes its title to the patent.
The usual replication was filed, and, pending an application

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

on the part of defendants for an extension of time to take proofs,
the plaintiff, apparently at the suggestion of the court, moved
for a decree in its favor upon the pleadings and affidavits on
file. Upon argument, which was upon the question of jurisdiction alone, the court held that the suit was not one arising under the patent laws, but solely out of a contract; that the court
had no jurisdiction, and a decree was entered to that effect.
Plaintiff thereupon appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which dismissed the case upon the ground that it had no jurisdiction itself over the appeal, and that, as such appeal was prosecuted from an order dismissing the bill solely for want of
jurisdiction, it should have been taken to this court. 109 Fed.
Rep. 497. Whereupon the mandate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals being filed in the Circuit Court, an appeal from the
final decree of that court, which had been entered November 5,
1900, was taken to this court.
.Mr. IV. A. Acker, X r. E. S. Bacon, Mr. Villiam F. Booth,
-Mr. TF TF. Wilshipe and H/-. A. H Ifenaga for appellant.
Xi,. James B. .Howe, .lr. A. -R. Titlow and Xr. If. G. Bogle
for appellees.
'MR. JUSTICE BnowN, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

1. Motion is made by defendants to dismiss this appeal upon
the ground that no appeal was taken, and no certificate of the
trial court upon the question of jurisdiction, was made by such
court during the term at which the decree was rendered; and
that no such certificate has since or ever been made.
As the appeal was taken directly to this court, it must appear,
under the fifth section of the Court of Appeals act, either that
the question of jurisdiction was certified to this court, or that
the decree appealed from shows upon its face that the sole question decided was one of jurisdiction. Plaintiff evidently supposed that the case was a proper one to carry to the Court of
Appeals, but its appeal having been there dismissed, it took this

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

285

Opinion of the Court.

appeal May 27, 1901, from the original decree of the Circuit
Court made November 5, 1900. This decree, after reciting
"that said suit does not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of this
court, and that this court should not further exercise jurisdiction, it is therefore ordered and decreed that said suit be and
the same is hereby dismissed for want of jurisdiction." An
appeal was taken from this decree, and the order allowing the
appeal states that the appeal was allowed "from the final order
and decree dismissing said suit for want of jurisdiction." This
is clearly a sufficient certificate of the Circuit Court that the
jurisdiction of that court was in issue, and the only question to
be considered by us relates to the jurisdiction of that court.
Shields v. Coleman, 157 U. S. 168; In re lehigh MAfining Co.,
156 U. S. 322; Huntington v. Laidley, 176 U. S. 668.
The case, being thus in proper condition for appeal, such appeal could be taken at any time within two years. Allen v.
Southern Pacific Railroad, 173 U. S. 479; Holt v. Indiana
.Manfg. Co., 176 U. S. 68.
2. The most important question is whether this is a suit under the patent laws of the United States within the meaning of
Rev. Stat. sec. 629, sub. 9, which grants original jurisdiction to
the Circuit Courts "of all suits at law or in equity arising under
the patent or copyright laws of the United States." The rule
is well settled that, if the suit be brought to enforce or set aside
a contract, though such contract be connected with a patent, it
is not a suit under the patent laws, and jurisdiction of the Circuit Court can only be maintained upon the ground of diversity
of citizenship. But difficulties sometimes arise in determining
whether the action be upon a contract or upon the patent.
The first case involving this question was Wilson v. Sandford,
10 How. 99, in which a bill filed on the equity side of the Circuit Court by the assignee of a patentee, to set aside a contract
in the nature of a license upon the ground that the licensee had
not complied with the terms of the contract, was held not to
be a case under the patent laws. The object of the bill was to
have the license set aside and forfeited, and plaintiff's title reinvested in him. Such was also the case in Brown v. Shannon,

OCTOBER TERAM,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

20 How. 55, which was a bill to enforce the specific execution
of certain contracts respecting the use of the patent; and in
Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S. 613, which was a suit brought by
the plaintiff for moneys alleged to be due under a contract
whereby certain letters patent granted to him were transferred
to the defendant. This was clearly a bill to recover royalties,
and no question under the patent laws was involved. Dale
Tile .Mag.
Co. v. ffyatt, 125 U. S. 46, was an action in a state
court by the owner of the patent upon an agreement by which
such owner granted an exclusive license to make and sell the
patented articles within a certain territory. Defendant expressly acknowledged the validity of the patent. This, we held
to be, clearly within the jurisdiction of the state court. A like
ruling was made in the next case of Felix v. Scharnweber, 125
U. S. 54. In the same line of cases are those of Marsh v. Nichols, 140 U. S. 344, to enforce the specific performance of a contract to transfer an interest in a patent to the plaintiff; Wade
v. 1awder, 165 U. S. 624; and Pralt v. Paris -Light & Coke
Co., 168 U. S. 255, which was an action by patentees in a state
court upon the common counts to recover of the defendant the
stipulated price for manufacturing and setting up an apparatus
for the manufacture of water gas. Defendant pleaded that the
plaintiff had agreed to save it harmless against any suit which
might be brought against it for infringement, and to defend such
suits at their own expense, and averred, among other things,
that the patents were void and an infringement upon prior patents; that defendant had not kept plaintiffs harmless against

such suits, but had refused to defend a certain suit brought
against it, and that the defendant had rightfully rescinded the
contract. It was held that the action was not one arising under the patent laws of the United States, and that to constitute
such a cause the plaintiff must set up some right, title or interest
under the patent laws, or at least make it appear that some right
or privilege will be defeated by one construction or sustained
by the opposite construction of those laws. That "section 711
does not deprive the state courts of the power to determine
questions arising under the patent laws, but only of assuming
jurisdiction of cases arising under those laws. There is a com-

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

287

Opinion of the Courb.

plete distinction between a case and a question arising under
the patent laws. The former arises when the plaintiff in his
opening pleading-be it a bill, complaint or declaration-sets
up a right under the patent laws as. ground for a recovery.
Of such the state courts have no jurisdiction. The latter may
appear in the plea or answer or in the testimony. The determination of such question is not beyond the competency of the
state tribunals."
Now, as the bill in this case differs from an ordinary bill for
infringement only in the fact that the suit is by a licensee against
two defendants, one of whom is the licensor and owner of the
patent, and the license is set forth only for the purpose of showing title, there would be no difficulty whatever in sustaining it,
were it not for the question whether we are not also bound to
consider the averments of the answer. We think this difficulty
is practically settled by a reference to section 5 of the Jurisdictional Statute of 1875, 18 Stat. 470, 472, which provides "that
if, in any suit commenced in a Circuit Court,

.

.

.

it shall

appear to the satisfaction of the said Circuit Court, at any time
after such suit has been brought,

.

.

.

that such suit does

not really and substantially involve a dispute or controversy
properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit Court,
the said Circuit Court shall proceed no further therein, but
shall dismiss the suit," etc. While it seems reasonable to say
that a jurisdiction once acquired by the filing of a proper bill
ought not to be taken away by any subsequent pleading, the
statute'is peremptory in this particular, and requires the court
to dismiss the case whenever at any time it shall appear that
its jurisdiction has been improperly invoked. We are by no
means without authority upon this question. In Robinson v.
Anderson, 121 13. S. 522, it was held that when it appeared,
after all the pleadings were filed, that the averments in the
declaration which alone gave the court jurisdiction, were immaterial and made for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by the court, it was the duty of the Circuit Court to dismiss
the bill for want of jurisdiction. Said the Chief Justice: "Even
if the complaint, standing by itself, made out a case of jurisdiction, which we do not decide, it was taken away as soon as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

answers were in, because if there was jurisdiction at all it was
by reason of the averments in the complaint as to what the
defences against the title of the plaintiffs would be, and these
were of no avail as soon as the answers were filed and it was
made to appear that no such defences were relied on." In
Williams v. Nottawa, 104 U. S. 209, this court went so far as
to dismiss a case in which judgment had been rendered for the
plaintiff in the Circuit Court, because it appeared from the testimony of the plaintiff that certain bonds were put in his hands
for collection in which he had no real interest. It was held that
it was the duty of the Circuit Court on its own motion, as soon
as the evidence was in and the collusive character of the case
shown, to stop all further proceedings and dismiss the suit, the
Chief Justice further remarking that this proviso of the act of
1875 was a salutary one, and that it was the duty of the Circuit Courts to exercise their power under it in proper cases.
See also TJ'etmore v. Ryrner, 169 U. S.115; 2'orris v. Gilmer,
129 U. S. 315; Lake County Conminissionersv. Dudley, 173 U. S.
243.
Is there anything in the answer to show that the court was
bound to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction?
The bill makes the usual allegations of a bill for infringement, and puts in issue (1) the title of the plaintiff, which in
this case was a license from one of the defendants, fully set
forth in the margin;1 (2) the validity of the patent; and
1 1License and Agreement.
"This agreement, made this 11th day of March, 1S93, by and between
Charles P. Allen, of Denver, Colorado, party of the first part, and the Excelsior Redwood Company, a corporation duly organized and existing under
and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, and having its principal place of business in the city and county of San Francisco in said State,
)arty of the second part:
"Witnesseth: That, whereas, the party of the first part is the owner and
holder, for, to and in the States and Territories hereinafter mentioned, of
the whole right, title and interest in and to letters patent of the United
States, No. 359,590, dated March 22, 1887, for 'wooden pipe.'
"And, whereas, the party of the second part is desirous of obtaining for,
to and within the said States and Territories hereinafter inentioned an exclusive right, license and privilege to manufacture and sell wooden pipe
under and in accordance with said letters patent:

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

289

Opinion of the Court.

(3) the infringement. The answer raises no issue as to the
validity of the patent, or as to the acts charging infringement.
It admits the license, but denies that it is a subsisting one, and
pleads abandonment of the same by plaintiff, a forfeiture of all
rights thereunder by failure to comply with its terms and conditions, and by acts of gross bad faith towards the patentee by
seeking to defeat the patent, and a revocation of the license by
Allen. It will be observed that the answer raises no question
of the construction of the license, but merely of its existencethat is, of the title of the plaintiff to sue. Before deciding that
these allegations oust the jurisdiction of the court it must at
least appear that the plaintiff has another remedy by an action in a state court. But what remedy has it? All the
"Now, therefore, the parties have agreed as follows: The party of the
first part hereby grants, subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, unto
the party of the second part, its successors and assigns, the exclusive right,
license and privilege, within the States of northern California, Oregon, Washington, Nevada, Montana and Idaho, and Territories of Arizona and Utah,
of manufacturing and selling wooden pipe under and in accordance with
the said letters patent, to the full end of the term of said letters patent.
"The party of the second part agrees to pay unto the party of the first
part, as a license fee or royalty under this license and agreement, the following sums to wit: One dollar ($1.00) on every one thousand feet, board
measure, of lumber employed in the manufacture of said pipe, and two and
one-half per cent (21 per cent) on the cost at factory of all steel and iron
used in said manufacture.
"The said license or royalty is to be paid by the said party of the second
part to the said party of the first part upon the final payment to the party
of the second part of the contract price on each and every contract taken
by said party of the second part, involving the manufacture and sale of said
patented wooden pipe. The right, license and privilege hereby granted is not
transferable or assignable, either in whole or part, by the party of the second part, without the consent of the party of the first part. It is agreed
that in case the party of the second part shall fail to use the above-described
patent in any pipe constructed by them, of twelve (12) inches diameter and
upwards, or from any cause the said party of the second part shall cease the
manufacture of wooden pipe, then and in that event all rights and privileges granted by this agreement and license to the said party of the second
part shall at once be revoked.
"It is understood and agreed that this agreement is binding upon the
heirs, legal representatives and assigns of the party of the first part, and
upon the successors and assigns of -the party of the second part.,

VOL. C.XXxv-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

agreements and conditions of the license are such as are made
by the plaintiff's assignor, the Excelsior Redwood Company.
This company, the party of the second part, agrees first, to
pay a licensee fee or royalty, the time of payment being fixed
in a subsequent sentence; second, that it will neither transfer
nor assign the license without the consent of the patentee, (it
was admitted that the patentee consented to the assignment
to plaintiff); third,that in case the licensee should fail to use
the patent in any pipe constructed by them, or from any cause
it should cease to manufacture a wooden pipe, the license shall
be at once revoked. The only clause in the license in which
the patentee appears as promisor is that wherein" he hereby
grants, subject to the conditions hereinafter stated, unto the
party of the second part, its successors and assigns, the exclusive right, license and privilege within" certain States "of manufacturing and selling wooden pipe under and in accordance with
the said letters patent to the full end of the term of said letters
patent."
Now, it may be freely conceded that, if the licensee had
failed to observe any one of the three conditions of the license,
the licensor would have been obliged to resort to the state courts
either to recover the royalties, or to procure a revocation of the
license. Such suit would not involve any question under the
patent law.
But the same does not hold good with respect to the licensee.
There were practically but two ways in which the patentee
could impair the grant he made to the licensee, and those were
by a revocation of the license by a bill in equity, or by treating
it as abandoned and revoked, and granting a license to another
party. He elected the latter remedy, and made a contract with
the Pacific Bridge Company to make and sell wooden pipe
within the same territory. A suit in a state court would either
be inadequate or would involve questions under the patent law.
If the licensee sued at law he would be obliged to establish the
fact that the patent had been infringed, which the patentee
might have denied, and in any case could only recover damages
for past infringements. If he sued in equity, he could only pray
an injunction against future infringements; but this is exactly

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

291

Opinion of the Court.

what he prays in this case, and thereby raises a question under
the patent laws. In either case the patentee could defeat the
action by showing that he did not infringe,-in either case the
defendant could so frame his answer as to put in issue the title,
the validity or the infringement of the patent.
The natural and practically the only remedy, as it seems to
us, was for the plaintiff to assert his title under the license and
to prosecute the defendants as infringers. In doing this he
does what every plaintiff is bound to do, namely, set forth his
title either as patentee, assignee or licensee, and thereby puts
that title in issue. The defendant is at liberty in such a case
to deny the title of the plaintiff by declaring that the license
no longer exists, but in our opinion this does not make it a suit
upon the -license or contract, but it still remains a suit for the
infringement of a patent, the only question being as to the
validity of plaintiff's title. There can be no doubt whatever
that if the plaintiff sued some third person for an infringement
of his patent, the defendant might attack the validity of his
license in the same way, but it would not oust the jurisdiction
of the court. Why should it do So in this case?
Much reliance is placed upon the case of Hcrtell v. Tilghman,
99 U. S. 547, which was a bill by a patentee against one with
whom he had made a contract in the nature of a license, alleging that defendants, after paying the royalty for several months,
refused to do certain other things which he charged to have
been a part of the contract, and thereupon he forbade them
further to use his patented process, and charged them as infringers. Defendants pleaded the contract as they understood
it, and the tender of all that was due plaintiff under it, and their
readiness to perform it.
Plaintiff's case was that there was a verbal agreement that
he should prepare and put up his patented mechanism in defendants' workshop, and that after this was done defendants should
take a license for the use of the invention. The machinery was
put up, but defendants refused to sign the license apparently
upon the ground that the patentee claimed the right to visit
the works of the defendants, and inspect their books with a view
to ascertaining the amount of work done. The dispute was as

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to the terms of the agreement, defendants insisting that they
had never proposed to accept the license with the conditions
mentioned. It was held that the patentee could not sue the defendants for an infringement, and in answer to the objection
that he had no other remedy Mir. Justice Miller observed that
he could establish his royalty once every year, and sue at law
and recover every month or every year for what was due, and
that, if he desired to assert his right of examining the works of
the defendants, he could in a proper case compel them to submit to the examination. The case is the converse of the one
under consideration, inasmuch as it was a suit by the patentee
against the licensee for a violation of his contract, and, as the
court observed, the plaintiff might have brought suit for royalties. As already said, the patentee might have done the same
in this case, if he had sought to enforce his contract.
Much more nearly analogous to the case under consideration
and practically upon. all fours with it is that of Littileteld v.
Perry, 21 Wall. 205. This was a suit by an assignee against
the patentee, who had made a conveyance to the plaintiff of his
patent with all improvements thereon, within certain States,
for which plaintiff had agreed to pay royalty upon all articles
sold, with a clause of forfeiture in case of non-payment or neglect after due notice, to make and sell the patented articles to
the extent of a reasonable demand therefor. There was by a
supplementary document an agreement reserving to the patentee
the right to apply the principle of his invention to one special
purpose. It was held that whether the plaintiff was an assignee
a suit for infringement
or a licensee, he had a right to maintain
in his own name in a Federal court against theyatentee. Said
the Chief Justice: "They," the plaintiffs, "certainly had the
exclusive right to the use of the patent for certain purposes
within their territory. They thus held a right under the patent.
The claim is that this right has been infringed. To determine
the suit, therefore, it is necessary to inquire whether there has
been an infringement, and that involves a construction of the
patents,

.

.

.

such a suit may involve the construction of a

contract as well as of a patent, but that will not oust the court
of its jurisdiction. If a patent is involved, it carries with it the
whole case."

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO.

293

Opinion of the Court.

Upon the subjec of a licensee suing his own patentee the
Chief Justice observed: "A mere licensee cannot sue strangers
who infringe. In such cases redress is obtained through or in
the name of the patentee or his assignee. Here, however, the
patentee is the infringer, and, as he cannot sue himself, the
licensee is powerless, so far as the courts of the United States
are concerned, unless he can sue in his own name. A court of
equity looks to the substance rather than form. When it has
jurisdiction of parties it grants the appropriate relief without
regard to whether they come as plaintiff or defendant. In this
case the person who should have protected the plaintiff against
all infringements has become himself the infringer."
Wite v. Rankin, 144-U. S. 628, was a bill by a patentee for
infringement, to which there was answer setting up an agreement between the plaintiff and one of the defendants to assign
to him an interest in the patent on certain conditions, which it
was alleged were performed, and certain other matters which
it was alleged gave the defendants the right to make, use and
sell the patented invention. The case was tried upon a stipulation admitting that defendants had made and sold the patented inventions, and that a certain written agreement between
the plaintiff and one of the defendants had been made as above
stated. The Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill,
which was reversed by this court. "It" (the court) "appears,"
said Mr. Justice Blatchford, "to have dismissed the bill on the
simple ground that the defendant set up a contract of license
from White. The bill being purely. a bill for infringement,
founded upon patents, what was set up by the defendants was
set up as a defence and as showing the lawful right in them to
do what they had done, and as a ground for the dismissal of
the bill because they had not infringed the patents." The
decree was not one upon the facts of the case, but was simply
a decree that the court had no jurisdiction to try the case. The
subject-matter of the action, as set forth in the bill, gave the
court jurisdiction, and exclusive jurisdiction, to try it. All of
the parties to the suit were citizens of California, and if jurisdiction did not exist under the patent laws it did not exist at
all. "The Circuit Court found nothing as to the existence or

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

validity of the contract, decree or deed mentioned in the stipulation. The stipulation provides that at the hearing the contract,
complaint, answer, decree and deed set forth in the stipulation
may be offered in evidence, subject to such objections as might
be urged against the originals thereof. The stipulation further
states that the defendants do not admit that anything is due to
the plaintiff from Thompson, and that they do admit that nothing had been paid by Thompson to the plaintiff under the decree
of the state court of August 26, 188-, and since the making
thereof. All these matters and questions ought to have been
adjudicated by the Circuit Court before it could find ground to
determine whether or not it should dismiss the bill. Until it
had so adjudicated those questions the decision in the case of
liartell v. Tilgh4man could not apply."
The cases in the Circuit Courts and Courts of Appeal are too
numerous to be analyzed, or even cited. One of the most recent and satisfactorv is that of the Atherton .Yacline Co. v.
Atwood-.for'ison Co., 102 Fed. Rep. 949, in which it was
broadly held that a suit in which the relief sought is an injunction and a recovery of damages for the infringement of a patent is one arising under the patent laws of the United States,
although it incidentally involves a determination of the question of the ownership of the patent, which was claimed by both
complainant and defendant under separate assignments from
the patentee. All the cases cited herein are reviewed and the
jurisdiction sustained.
The difficulty with the defendant's position in the case under consideration is that it apparently leaves the plaintiff without an adequate remedy. Defendant has broken no express
covenant of the contract, since it has made no covenant. It
has simply ignored the existence of the contract and granted a
license to another party. It is difficult to see what remedy is
available to the plaintiff in a state court that would not involve the right of the defendant to use the patent. In other
words, it would be an ordinary suit for infringement in which
the Federal courts would alone have jurisdiction. Whether it
sued at law or in equity, its damages would be such as are

EXCELSIOR W. P. CO. v. PACIFIC BRIDGE CO. 295
Opinion of the Court.

usual in cases of infringement, and the only injunction it could
obtain would be against the further use of the invention.
In any suit that could be brought the title of the plaintiff to
sue must be put in issue, and, that being the title to the patent,
is put in issue in every suit for infringement. We held in P'att
v. Paris Eight & Coke Co., 168 U. S. 255, with respect to an
action in a state court, which involved the question whether
the patents were void and an infringement upon prior patents,
that this did not necessarily oust the state court of its jurisdiction; and by parity of reasoning we hold in this case that the
mere fact that the suit may involve the existence of the license
does not oust the court of jurisdiction of a suit for the infringement of a patent.
While we do not intend to allow the jurisdiction of the Federal courts to be invoked primarily for the determination of
the respective rights of parties to a contract concerning patents, yet when the bill is an ordinary one for an infringement
and the answer puts in issue the title of the plaintiff to sue, we
think the jurisdiction is not ousted by the mere allegation that
the license has been revoked and that the court is at liberty to
go on and determine that fact. We regard this question as
conclusively settled in Littlefteld v. Perry, 21 Wall. 205, and
White v. Rankin, 144 U. S. 628, and have no disposition to disturb it.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

MR. JusTIon- GRAY did not sit in this case or participate in the
decision.

