WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
Syllabus.

THis case was argued at the same time with .French-Glenn
2ive Stock Company v. Springer, and by the same counsel.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS delivered the opinion of the court.
The French-Glenn Live Stock Company, a corporation of the
State of California, brought an action in the Circuit Court of
Harney County, State of Oregon, against James Colwell, to
to recover lands in possession of the latter, under the homestead
laws of the United States. There was a verdict and judgment
in favor of the defendant, and that judgment was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Oregon. A writ of error was sued out
to this court.
The questions of fact and law in this case are similar to those
in the case of Trench-Glenn, Live Stock Company v. Alva
Springer, just decided, and, for the reasons expressed in the
opinion in that case the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Oregon is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUsTICE HARLAN

took no part in this decision.

WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 193. Argued March 19, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
The seventh section of the act of Pennsylvania of April 27, 1855, is as follows: "That in all cases where no payment, claim, or demand shall have
been made on account of or for any ground rent, annuity, or other charge
upon real estate for twenty-one years, or no declaration or acknowledgment of the existence thereof shall have been made within that period
by the owner of the premises, subject to such ground rent, annuity, or
charge, a release or extinguishment thereof shall be presumed, and such
ground rent, annuity, or charge shall thereafter be irrecoverable: Provided, That the evidence of such payment may be perpetuated by recording in the recorder of deeds' office of the proper county the duplicate of

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.
any receipt therefor, proved by oath or affirmation to be a true copy of
that signed and delivered in the presence of the payer and witnessed at
the time by this deponent, which recorded duplicate or the exemplification of the record thereof shall be evidence until disproved; and the evidence of any such claim or demand may be perpetuated by the record of
any judgment recovered for such rent, annuity, or charge in any court of
record, or the transcript therein filed of any recovery thereof by judgment before any alderman or justice of the peace, which record and
judgment shall be duly indexed: Provided, That this section shall not
go into effect until three years from the passage of this act." Held, that
this was not an act or law impairing the obligation of contracts within
the meaning of the Constitution of the United States.

THrs was an action of assumpsit brought December, 1896, in
the Court of Common Pleas, No. 1, of Philadelphia County, by
Harvey G. Clay, administrator of the estate of Alexander Osbourne, deceased, against Adam Iseminger, for recovery of
arrears of ground rent due on a ground-rent deed between
Alexander Osbourne and Jennie M., his wife, and the said
Adam Iseminger, dated January 4, 1854. The statement of
particulars claimed arrears of ground rent due, under the stipulations of said deed, for the years 1887 to 1896, both inclusive,
with interest on each arrear.
On January 27, 189 7, one Elmer H. Rogers, having been permitted, as terre-tenant and owner in fee of the lot of ground
described in the ground-rent deed, to intervene and defend pro
interesse suo, filed, under the rules of the court, an affidavit of
defence to the whole of the plaintiff's claim, averring that no
payment, claim or demand had been made by any one on account of or for any ground rent on the premises described in
the said deed, or from any owner or said premises, or any part
thereof, for more than twenty-one years prior to the bringing
of the suit; that no declaration or acknowledgment of the existence thereof, or of the right to collect said ground rent
thereon, had been made within that period by or for any
owner of said premises, or any part thereof, and that neither
he nor they nor any of them within that period ever executed
any declaration of no set-off in reference to said ground rent,
or recognized its existence in any way, manner, shape or form.
This defence was based on the seventh section of an act of the

WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
Statement of the Case.

Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of April 27, 1855, page 368,
No.387, in terms as follows:
"That in all cases where no payment, claim or demand shall
have been made on account of or for any ground rent, annuity
or other charge upon real estate for twenty-one years, or no
declaration or acknowledgment of the existence thereof shall
have been made within that period by the owner of the premises
subject to such ground rent, annuity or charge, a release or exrent,
tinguishment thereof shall be presumed, and such ground
annuity or charge shall thereafter be irrecoverable: Provided,
That the evidence of such payment may be perpetuated by recording in the recorder of deeds' office of the proper county
the duplicate of any receipt therefor, proved by oath or affirmation, to be a true copy of that signed and delivered in the presence of the payer and witnessed at the time by this deponent,
which recorded duplicate or the exemplification of the record
thereof, shall be evidence until disproved, and the evidence of
any such claim or demand may be perpetuated by the record
of any judgment recovered for such rent, annuity or charge
in any court of record, or the transcript therein filed of any
recovery thereof by judgment before any alderman or justice
of the peace, which records and judgments shall be duly indexed: Pi-ovided, That this section shall not go into effect
until three years from the passage of this act."
Thereupon the plaintiff took out a rule on the defendant to
show cause why judgment should not be entered against him
for want of a sufficient affidavit of defence, assigning as a reason
why such rule should be made absolute that the said seventh
section of the act of April 27, 1855, was unconstitutional within
the tenth section of article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States, forbidding any State from passing any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
After a hearing the court discharged the said rule for judgment; a bill of exceptions was signed and sealed, and the cause
was then taken to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where
the judgment of the Court of Common Pleas was affirmed.
187 Penn. St. 108.
Thereafter the case came on for trial before the court and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

jury. The plaintiff offered evidence tending to show that the
ground rent in question had never been paid off and extinguished. This offer was objected to as immaterial and irrelevant. The objection was sustained, and an exception was
taken by the plaintiff. The court was asked to instruct the
jury that the seventh section of the act of April 27, 1855, was
unconstitutional, because it impairs the contract reserving the
rent, and was inhibited by the tenth section of article 1 of the
Constitution of the United States, which forbids the States
from passing any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
The request so to charge was refused by the trial judge. The
defendants asked the court to charge that the verdict should
be for the defendants. This request was granted. A bill of
exceptions to the action of the court in rejecting the plaintiff's
offer of evidence, in declining to charge as requested by the
plaintiff, and in charging as requested by the defendant, was
signed and sealed by the trial court. A verdict and judgment
in favor of the defendants were then entered. The cause was
then taken a second time to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, where on April 3, 1899, the judgment of the Court of
Common Pleas was affirmed.
Mr. GeorgeHenderson for plaintiff in error.
MAlr. Ta Jewell Williams for defendant in error.
ander Simpson, dr., was on his brief.

Mr. Alex-

MR. Jusricr SnInAS, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The question for determination in this case is whether the
seventh section of the act of assembly of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania of April 27, 1855, the terms of which appear in
the foregoing statement, is an act or law impairing the obligation of contracts within the meaning of the Constitution of
the United States.
The peculiar character, under the laws of the State of Penn-

WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

sylvania, of irredeemable ground rents, must first receive our
notice.
It is defined to be a rent reserved to himself and his heirs by
the grantor of land, out of the land itself. It is not granted like
an annuity or rent charge, but is reserved out of a conveyance
of the land in fee. It is a separate estate from the ownership
of the ground, and is held to be real estate, with the usual characteristics of an estate in fee simple, descendible, devisable, alienable. Bosler v. .uhn, 8 W. & S. 183, 185 ; Wallace v. Harmstad, 44 Penn. St. 492, 495; MeQuigg v. iorton, 3 Wright,
31.
It may be well to quote the language of the deed reserving
the ground rent in question, which is that usually employed in
the creation of such estates. The ten'endum clause is in the usual form: "To have and to hold the said described lot or piece
of ground, hereditaments and premises hereby granted with the
appurtenances unto the said Adam Iseminger, his heir and assigns, to the only proper use and behoof of the said Adam Iseininger, his heirs and assigns forever." Then comes the reservation, as follows:
"Yielding and paying therefor and thereout unto the said
Alexander Osbourne, his heirs and assigns, the yearly rent or
sum of seventy-two dollars, lawful money of the United States,
in half-yearly payments on the first day of April and October
every year hereafter forever, without any deduction, defalcation
or abatement for any taxes, charges or assessments whatsoever
to be assessed as well on the said hereby granted premises as
on the said yearly rent hereby and thereout reserved. The first
half-yearly payment thereof to be made on the first day of October, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four, and, on default
of paying the said yearly rent on the days and time and in
manner aforesaid, it shall and may be lawful for the said Alexander Osbourne, his heirs and assigns, to enter into and upon
the said hereby granted premises or any part thereof, and into
the buildings thereon to be erected, and to distrain for the said
yearly rent so in arrears and unpaid, without any exemption
whatsoever, any law to the contrary thereof in anywise notwithstanding, and to proceed with and sell such distrained goods

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and effects, according to the usual course of distresses, for rent
charges. But if sufficient distress cannot be found upon the
said hereby granted premises to satisfy the said yearly rent in
arrear and the charges of levying the same, then and in such
case it shall and may be lawful for the said Alexander Osbourne,
his heirs and assigns, into and upon the said hereby-granted lot
and improvements wholly to reenter, and the same to have
again, repossess and enjoy as in his and their first and former
estate and title in the same and as though this indenture had
never been made," etc.
It appears in the Pennsylvania cases, hereinbefore and hereafter cited, that this form of estate was, in the early history of
the Commonwealth, a favorite form of investment; but that
eventually great inconveniences arose from the existence of ancient ground rents, which the owners and occupants of the land
never beard of, but of whose extinguishment the records of title
made no mention. Indeed, the records disclosed the reservation
of such ground rents unpaid and unextinguished, going back
more than a century. In .oErv v. Bqowne, 64 Penn. St. 55,
there is a quotation in the opinion from a tract by Mr. Eli K.
Price, a distinguished real estate lawyer of Philadelphia, as follows:
"Those only who are accustomed to make or read briefs of
title in Philadelphia, going back to the times of the first settlement, know how frequently occur ancient rent charges and
ground rents, which the landowners of the present day never
heard of, and which generally have no doubt been honestly
extinguished; while making this note the writer has such a
single brief before him for an opinion, in which no less than
three such charges occur as blemishes, grants or reservations
more than a century ago, which no person living has any
knowledge of."
These evils led to the passage of the act of the 2th of April,
1855, entitled "An act to amend certain defects of the law for
the more just and safe transmission, and secure enjoyment of
real and personal estate."
The theory of this remedial act is that upon which all statutes of limitation are based-a presumption that, after a long

WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

lapse of time without assertion, a claim, whether for money or
for an interest in land, is presumed to have been paid or released. This is a rule of convenience and policy, the result of
a necessary regard to the peace and security of society. ,
Bonds, even when secured by mortgages upon land, mortgages themselves, merchants' accounts, legacies, judgments,
promissory notes, and all evidences of debt, have universally
been treated as lawfully within the reach of legislative power exercised by the passage of statutes of limitation. Such statutes,
like those forbidding perpetuities and the statute of frauds, do
not, in one sense, destroy the obligation of contracts as between
the parties thereto, but they remove the remedies which otherwise would be furnished by the courts. Are not the powers of
government adequate for this?
"Laws for the preservation and promotion of peace, good
order, health, wealth, education, and even general convenience,
are supported under the police power of the State. Under
these laws, personal rights, rights of property, and freedom of
action, may be directly affected, and men may be fined, imprisoned and restrained, and property taken, converted and sold
away from its owner. The principle of such laws is most easily perceived and recognized when men are held liable for nuisances and negligences affecting the health and safety of society,
when the marriage contract is dissolved, and when property is
subjected to charges and sales for matters affecting the public
interest and welfare. Beyond this is a wide domain of general
convenience where the power is likewise exercised. Thus estates
held in joint tenancy and in common may be divided among the
tenants, even by conversion and sale; life estates and remainders
may be separated from each other; qualified inheritances expanded into absolute fee, and contingent and executory interests
extinguished. What greater reason has the owner of an irredeemable ground rent, coming down from a former generation,
to complain, than the owner of a remainder or reversion, or of
0. J. Agnew in Pasome contingent or executory interest?
lairet's .Appeal, II P. F. Smith, 479.
"Notwithstanding the protection which the law gives to
vested rights, it is possible for a party to debar himself of the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

right to assert the same in the courts by his own negligence or
laches. If one who is dispossessed be negligent for a long and
unreasonable time, the law refuses afterwards to lend him any
assistance to recover the possession merely, both to punish his
neglect, and also because it is presumed that the supposed
wrongdoer has in such a length of time procured a legal title,
otherwise he would sooner have been sued. Statutes of limitation are passed which fix upon a reasonable time within which
a party is permitted to bring suit for the recovery of his rights,
and which, on failure to do so, establish a legal presumption
against him that he has no legal rights in the premises. Such
a statute is a statute of repose. Every government is under
obligation to its citizens to afford them all needful legal remedies; but it is not bound to keep its courts open indefinitely
for one who neglects or refuses to apply for redress until it
may fairly be presumed that the means by which the other
party might disprove his claim are lost in the lapse of time."
Cooley on Limitations, 6th ed. 44; Bell v. .Morison,1 Pet. 351;
1efingwell v. Marren 2 Black, 606.
We are unable to perceive any sound distinction between
claims arising out of ground-rent deeds and other kinds of
debts and claims, which would exempt the former from the
same legislative control that is conceded to lawfully extend to
the latter.
But, assuming that there is nothing peculiar in ground rents
that withdraw them from the reach of statutes of limitation, it
is further contended, in the present case, that the act of April 27,
1855, can have no valid application to a ground rent reserved
before the passage of that statute. It may be properly conceded that all statutes of limitation must proceed on the idea
that the party has full opportunity afforded him to try his
right in the courts. A statute could not bar the existing rights
of claimants without affording this opportunity; if it should
attempt to do so, it would not be a statute of limitations, but
an unlawful attempt to extinguish rights arbitrarily, whatever
might be the purport of its provisions. It is essential that such
statutes allow a reasonable time after they take effect for the
commencement of suits upon existing causes of action; though

WILSON v. ISEMINGER.
Opinion of the Court.

what shall be considered a reasonable time must be settled by
the judgment of the legislature, and the courts will not inquire
into the wisdom of its decision in establishing the period of
legal bar, unless the time allowed is manifestly so insufficient
that the statute becomes a denial of justice. Cooley on Limitations, 451.
Thus in Terry v. Anderson, 95 U. S. 628, it was said by
Chief Justice Waite:
"This court has often decided that statutes of limitation affecting existing rights are not unconstitutional, if a reasonable
time is given for the commencement of an action before the bar
takes effect. Hawkins v. Barney, 5 Pet. 451; Sohn v. lfaterson,
17 Wall. 596.
"It is difficult to see why, if the legislature may prescribe a
limitation where none existed before, it may not change one
which has already been established. The parties to a contract
have no more a vested interest in a particular limitation which
has been fixed than they have in an unrestricted right to sue.
They have no mor6 a vested interest in the time for the commencement of an action than they have in the form of the action
to be commenced; and as to the forms of action or modes of
remedy, it is well settled that the legislature may change them
at its discretion, provided adequate means of enforcing the right
remain.
"In all such cases, the question is one of reasonableness, and
we have, therefore, only to consider whether the time allowed
in this statute is, under all the circumstances, reasonable. Of
that the legislature is primarily the judge, and we cannot overrule the decision of that department of the government, unless
a palpable error has been committed. In judging of that, we
must place ourselves in the position of the legislators, and must
measure the time of limitation in the midst of the circumstances
which surrounded them, as nearly as possible; for what is reasonable in a particular case depends upon its particular facts."
Tanner v. lew York, 168 U. S. 90; Saranac Land Co. v.
R~oberts, 177 U. S.44.
In Korm v. Browne, 64 Penn. St. 51, this question was considered, and it was said, per Read, J.:

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

"The seventh section did not go into effect for three years,
and gave ample time to all owners of ground rents to make
claims and demands for the same, so as to prevent the bar of
the statute. This prospective commencement makes the retrospective bar not only reasonable but strictly constitutional."
Citing Smith v. iMorrison, 22 Pick. 430, and ]Ross v. Duval, 13
Pet. 64.
In Biddle v. Ilooven, 120 Penn. St. 225, it was said, referring
to .Kornv. Browne, 64 Penn. St. 55, 57, "an examination of it
shows that the only question there argued was whether the
section of the act referred to has a retrospective as well as a
prospective operation with respect to ground rents. This appears in the first sentence of the opinion of Judge Read. He
very properly held that as the seventh section did not go into
effect for three years, and gave ample time to all owners of
ground rents to make claims and demands for the same, so as
to prevent the bar of the statute, that this prospective commencement made the retrospective bar not only reasonable but
constitutional. In other words, the act gave ample time to
preserve all existing rights. . . . The only ground upon
which this kind of legislation can be justified is that after the
lapse of the statutory period the mortgage or other security is
presumed to have been paid, or the ground rent extinguished.
The payment of a mortgage and the extinguishment of a ground
rent mean substantially the same thing. The act was not intended to destroy the ground landlord's ownership in the rent;
it does not impair his title thereto; nor can it be said to impair
the contract by which the rent was reserved, but from wellgrounded reasons of public policy it declares that when the
owner of such rent makes no claim or demand therefor for
twenty-one years it presumes it has been extinguished, which
means nothing more than that it has been paid. The language
cited, as before observed, affects only the remedy; if it meant
more it would be void for the excess."
The same conclusion was reached by the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania in TMallace v. ]Fourth U. P. cMur
'c7, 152 Penn.
St. 258, where it was said that "the purpose of the act of 1855
was to relieve titles and facilitate the sale of real estate. It

VICKSBURG WATERWORKS CO. v. VICKSBURG.

65

Syllabus.

fixes upon an arbitrary period of twenty-one years as that over
which the search of a purchaser or other person must extend,
and beyond which it shall not be necessary for him to look. If
for twenty-one years no payment upon or acknowledgment of
the ground rent can be shown, and no demand for payment has
been made, the act conclusively presumes a release and extinguishment of the incumbrance by the act of the parties, and
declares that the rent shall be thereafter irrecoverable." In
that case the ground rent had been reserved long before the
passage of the act of April 27, 1855, and it was held that as
twenty-one years and ten months had elapsed without the payment of rent, or demand for the same, the right to demand it
was extinguished.
So, in the present case, where no payment or demand was
shown to have been made for more than twenty-one years, it
was held that, in view of the numerous and repeated decisions,
the question must be considered at rest. Clay v. Iseminger, 187
Penn. St. 108.
Ve are, therefore, qf o2inion that the Supreme Court of Penn&ylvaniadid not err in holding that the seventh section of
the act of April 27, 1855, was constitutionally a1licable,
and its judgment is affirmed.

VICKSBURG

WATERWORKS
BURG.

COMPANY v. VICKS-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 392. Submitted December 4, 1901.-Decided April 7, 1902.

By the act of March 18, 1886, the city of Vicksburg was authorized to provide for the erection and maintenance of a system of waterworks and the
contract made in accordance with its provision was within the power of
the city to make, and the subsequent legislation, state and municipal,
set forth in the bill, impair the contract rights of the water company,
within the protection of the Constitution of the United States unless the
city can point to some inherent want of legal validity in the contract.

VOL. CLXXXV-5

