OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Syllabus.

the threshold here, but, among other objections to granting
leave, it is urged that the court would have no jurisdiction over
the subject-matter because, as contended, the bill does not present the case of a controversy of a civil nature, which is justiciable under the Constitution and laws of the United States, in
that the suit is purely a suit for the enforcement of "the local
law and policy of a sovereign and independent State, whose right
to make laws and to enforce them exists only within itself and
by means of its own agencies, and is limited to its own territory."
In the exercise of original jurisdiction the court has always
necessarily proceeded with the utmost care and deliberation,
and, in respect of all contested questions, on the fullest argument; and in the matter of practice we are obliged to bear in
mind, in an especial degree, the effect of every step taken in
the instant case on those which may succeed it. In view of
this it seems to us advisable to take the same course on the
pending application as was pursued in -Louisianav. Texas, that
is, without intimating any opinion whatever on the questions
suggested, to grant leave to file in accordance with the usual
practice. Our rules require service sixty days before the return
day of process, but as the final adjournment of the term will
have taken place within that time, process will be made returnable on the first day of next term.
Leave is grantedand process will issue accordingly.

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
CHRISTIE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LAND CLAIMS.
Nos. 109, 129. Argued January 27, 28, 1902.-Decided April 28, 1902.

The terms of the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 854, (establishing the Court
of Private Land Claims), with reference to a proceeding like this, leave
no room for doubt that it was the intent of Congress to require that, be-

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Statement of the Case.
fore a decision of the court in the premises, all those asserting claims in
the land, adverse to the United States, should be made parties, and should
be heard in support of their validity.
By the law in force at the time of the sale under consideration, a grant
initiated in the manner in which the one in questionis claimed to have been,
could not exceed in the aggregate four sitios.
In its essential features this case is like Ely's Administrator v. United
States, 171 U. S. 220.
It may be presumed that the Mexican officials duly performed the duty imposed upon them of registering the fact of the making of a grant of public lands.
In Cameron v. United States, 148 U. S. 301, the matter passed upon was
not the same as that which is present in the case at bar.

appeals concern the title to a tract of land situated in
the county of Pima, Territory of Arizona. The litigation was
begun by the filing in the Court of Private Land Claims, on
February 27, 1893, on behalf of Alfred A. Green, of a petition
by which the court was asked to declare the validity of the title
of Green to the tract. It was alleged that Green had become
invested with the title by mesne conveyances from one Ramon
Romero and others, to whom the land had been granted on
May 15, 1825, by the State of the West in the Republic of M[exico.
While the original documents constituting the grant were
averred to be in the official custody of the surveyor general of
the United States for the Territory of Arizona, it was alleged
that the claim had not theretofore been considered or acted upon
by Congress, or any other authority of the United States. A
map was annexed to the petition, which it was asserted showed
the boundaries of the land, and established that the quantity
thereof was sixteen square leagues. Not only the United States,
but also Colin Cameron, and others whom it was averred claimed
some interest in the land, were made parties defendant to the
cause.
The United States filed a general denial. Thereafter, on
March 20, 1895, upon the application of the United States, Harvey L. Christie was made a party defendant, on the ground that
he asserted title to the land under the grant -to Romero.
On March 25, 1895, Colin Cameron filed an answer, in which
he denied that petitioner had any interest in whole or in part
THESE

VOL.

aLXXXV-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

in the land, and it was also averred that he (Cameron) was the
owner in fee simple, and that he was in possession of the tract,
under the grant of May 15, 1825, referred to in the petition.
The land claimed by Cameron was delineated on a map annexed
to the answer, and the land was averred to be embraced within
the original survey of the grant. The proceedings which it
was claimed culminated in the grant were detailed at length.
It was also alleged that as the result of proceedings instituted
on February 28, 1880, by the successors in interest to the original grantees the surveyor general of the United States for the
Territory of Arizona, on April 28, 1880, recommended the confirmation by Congress of said grant to the legal representatives
of the original grantees to the extent of four square leagues, but
that no action had been taken thereon by Congress.
Defendant also pleaded that on September 6, 1886, the United States, under the act of Congress approved February 25,
1885, entitled "An act to prevent unlawful occupancy of the
public lands," brought suit against him for an alleged unlawful
enclosure of public lands, a part of the tract in question, and
that the trial court had adjudicated that the map attached to
Cameron's answer in this case correctly represented the land included within the boundaries described in the original title papers of said grant; and that such map correctly represented the
location of each monument called for and described in said title
papers. Such findings of fact as to the monuments and location of the said grant were thereupon averred to be res adjudieata herein. The answer concluded as follows:
. "Defendant further avers, in order to save every right belonging to him, that he in nowise invokes the jurisdiction of
this court or submits himself to it voluntarily, and that he answers herein only because he has been made a party defendant.
Defendant avers that he claims the lands of the said San Rafael de la Zanja grant under a title derived from the Mexican
government that was complete and perfect when the United
States acquired sovereignty over such lands; that all the steps
and proceedings in the matter of the petition, survey, appraisement offers, auctions and sale of said grant and payment therefor were regular, complete and lawful, and vested a perfect and

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Statement of the Case.

valid title in fee thereto in the said grantees of said grant, and
that said grantees at the time went into the actual possession,
use and occupation of said grant and erected the proper monuments, and that said grantees and their descendants and legal
representatives have continued ever since and until the present
time in the actual possession, use and occupation of the same,
and are now seized and possessed in fee thereof; that said
grant document is a complete, definite grant in fee by way
of sale, coupled with the condition subsequent not to abandon
the same for a longer period than three years, without good
reason, which abandonment would subject the tract to adjudication to third parties who might apply for or denounce the
same; but that no forfeiture of said grant was ever claimed.
"Defendant avers that by reason of the premises he is in nowise bound by the act of Congress, establishing this court to
apply to this court for a confirmation of said title, and that he
is unwilling to submit himself to the conditions, or any of
them, imposed by the act establishing this court, upon petitioners applying to said court for confirmation of their title,
and that he does not by this answer, or in any other way, so
apply."
On February 4, 1899, Cameron filed what was termed a
"separate answer," in which were repeated the averments in
the prior answer as to the petitioner not possessing any interest in the tract, the ownership thereof in the defendant, the
proceedings which culminated in the grant to Romero, and the
proceedings had before- the surveyor general of Arizona. Al
averment was made that the map filed with the answer, as a
part thereof, was a correct map of the grant in question, and
showed the area of the grant to be 15S,889.62 acres. Itwas
next alleged that the grant to Romero was not a grant by
quantity, but was a sale by metes and bounds and natural landmarks established by the Spanish survey, and that the grant
vested in the grantees a true and valid title in fee to the whole
of the surveyed land; and it was further alleged that each and
every person in the occupancy of any portion of the.tract was
unlawfully occupying and that any patents issued by the TUni-

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

ted States for land within the grant were null and void. The
answer next contained the following averments:
"Defendant further avers that prior to said treaty, known as
the Gadsden treaty, no resurvey of said grant had ever been
applied for or ordered by any one, and that none of the grantees or their successors in interest had prior to said treaty any
knowledge or notice that within the said monuments there was
any excess of land over the area stated in said title papers, and
defendant avers that the grantees under said grant were, under
the laws of Mexico and the State of Sonora existing at the date
of said treaty, and for a long time prior thereto had been, holders in good faith of any such excess or surplus, if any such there
is, and entitled to occupy and retain the same as owners even
after such overplus is shown, without other obligations than to
pay for the excess according to the quality of the land and the
price that governed when it was surveyed and appraised; and
defendant further avers that if this honorable court should decide that said sale as recited in said title papers did not, as defendant avers it did, convey to the grantees therein all of the said
tract of land to the monuments described in said title papers
without further payment therefor, he is ready and willing and
now offers to pay to the United States of America any amount
that may be found to be due from him for such overplus, and
also the costs for ascertaining the same, as soon as the amount
of the same and the sum due therefor is ascertained."
The answer concluded with a tender of $1359 as payment for
any overplus, and the further sum of ;200 for the costs of ascertaining and determining the existence or non-existence of
such overplus, and concluded with the prayer "that upon said
payment this honorable court decree that defendant is entitled
to and is the owner of all of said tract of land as originally
surveyed, including said overplus or surplus, and that by said
decree he be secured in the ownership and possession of the
whole of said tract, and defendant, answering herein by reason
of the fact that he has been made a party defendant, prays that
the validity of his said title may be inquired into and decided, and
that his title to all of said lands be declared valid, and that the
said grant be adjudged to be and always to have been a comn-

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Statement of the Case.

plete and perfect and unconditional title in fee, and the defendant be adjudged to be the owner in fee thereof, and for such
other and further relief as to the court may seem meet and
proper in the premises."
On February 4, 1899, an answer of defendant Christie was
filed, in which it was averred that Christie was the owner of
the land granted to Romero. In other respects the answer reiterated the allegations contained in the separate answer of Cameron just stated.
In a supplemental answer filed by leave on May 19, 1899,
Cameron reiterated the plea of res adjudicata contained in his
original answer.
From time to time various other defendants filed answers,
setting up title by adverse possession, and otherwise to sundry
portions of the land in controversy. The cause was heard on
the theory that the pleadings of Cameron and Christie just referred to were cross complaints, demanding affirmative relief
against the United States. On behalf of the two defendants
named, there was introduced in evidence a certified copy of the
expediente of the grant, as also the original titulo. This titulo
shows the following as the original proceedings upon which the
title was based:
On July 19, 1821, Don Manuel Bustillo, a resident of the
presidio of Santa Cruz, applied to the intendant of the province
of Sonora and Sinaloa, Antonio Codero, at Arispe, for four sitios
of land at a place to which was afterwards given the name of
San Rafael de la Zanja. Three of these sitios were to be north
of and adjoining the lands of said presidio, and the other at the
place called Cajoncito to the east. The application was granted
on the same day without prejudice to third parties, and the commandant of Santa Cruz was ordered to make the survey, appraisement and publication of the land for thirty consecutive
days in solicitation of bidders. Gonzales, the commandant of
Santa Cruz, accepted the commission October 4, 1821, and ordered the survey to be commenced on the next day, after summoning the party in interest and the owners of coterminous
lands. An assistant was appointed, and the survey made on
October 5 and 6, 1821. After a waxed and twisted hempen

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

cord of fifty varas had been measured, the applicant (Bustillo)
requested that, inasmuch as the place called Cajoncito was inside of the presidio lands, the one sitio he had asked for there be
given to him in one tract with the other three, which request
was granted. In substance it appeared that the survey was
made by running or estimating the lines from the central point
two hundred cords east, west, north and south, the ends of the
lines being extended to form a square. The recitals of the survey concluded as follows:
"With which measurements was formed the square of the
four sitios registered by Don Manuel Bustillo for raising cattle,
and as such he accepted them; being informed that in due time
he was to establish his boundaries with monuments of lime and
rough stone as required by- law."
Appraisers were appointed, and four sitios were appraised as
follows: Three sitios at $60 each, because they had permanent
water, and one sitio at $30, because it was dry. Publication
was then made for thirty consecutive days, soliciting bidders.
None appeared. Affidavits were taken to show that Bustillo
was able to stock four sitios. The expediente was then forwarded to the intendant, who, in December, 1821, referred it
to the attorney general for his opinion. The latter official submitted a written opinion December 20, 1821, approving the proceedings, and recommending that the three usual public offers
be made and the land sold to the highest bidder upon payment
of the price and the usual fees. The intendant approved the
recommendation, and ordered the three public offers made.
The first offer was made January, 1822. The proclamation
made by the crier, as recited in the account of the proceedings
of the first auction, was as follows:
"There are going to be sold for this commission of auctions
four sitios of public lands for cattle raising, comprised in the
place named San Rafael de la Zanja, situated within the jurisdiction of the presidio of San Cruz, surveyed in favor of the one
who denounced them, Don Manuel Bustillo, and appraised in
the sum of two hundred and ten dollars, being at the rate of
sixty dollars each for three of said sitios, and the remaining
one at thirty dollars."

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Statement of the Case.

The bidders at the sale were Bustillo and one Romero. The
latter, on behalf of himself and the residents of the presidio of
Santa Cruz, became the purchasers for the sum of $1200. Romero was notified of the result, with which he expressed satisfaction, and asked the grant to be made. On January 11, 1822,
the intendant ad interim, Ignacio de Bustamente, approved all
the proceedings, and ordered IRomero to be notified and to pay
into the treasury the price of the land and the usual fees, and,
as soon as that was done and a voucher for the payment was
attached to the expediente, it be sent to the superior board of
the treasury in Mexico for such action as it might see fit to take.
Romero made the payment, and a certificate was given him
for the amount thereof. At this point the proceedings were
suspended, and so remained until May 15, 1825, when the recently created commissary general of the State of Sonora, Juan
Miguel Riesgo, issued a title to "Don Ramon Romero and the
other residents in interest," for "the four sitios of land for
breeding cattle, comprising the place called San Rafael de la
Zanja," under article 81, ordinance of intendants, and the royal
instructions of October 15, 1754, at Fuerte, the then capital of
the United States of Sonora and Sinaloa.
The following appears at the end of the titulo, viz: "Entry
of this title is made at folio 3 of book No. 2 that exists in this
commissariat general."
The expediente, which was on file in the archives of the
State of Sonora, Mexico, at the city of Hermosillo, the capital,
contained, following the certificate of the payments made by
IRomero, the following recital:
"The title on this expediente was issued on May 15, 1825,
in favor of the interested parties, Don Ramon Romero and
other residents of Santa Cruz. Rubricas E. R. Pa. 7 a. Notification. Vale."
The court found (two members dissenting) that a valid grant
had been made, that the evidence established the central point
of the original survey, and confirmation was made and decreed
"of the said title of the said Ramon Romero, and of his coowners and of their heirs, successors in interest, and assigns-"
to four sitios of the tract, measured in a square from the center

OCTOBER TERMTT, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

established by the M[exican surveyor, as shown on the map of
a certain survey made in 1895, and in evidence in the cause.
The claim of plaintiff and of defendants Cameron and Christie
to all other land not so confirmed was rejected.
Appeals were prosecuted by the United States and by Cameron and Christie.
-Mr'. foAn IF. Griggs and .r. Francis J Henry for appellants in No. 129, and appellees in No. 109.
Mr. Willian H. Pope and Xr'. Xfatthew G. Reynolds for the
United States. AX&. Solicitor General was on their brief.
iIL[r. Rochester Ford filed a brief for the United States and
for Christie.
MR. JUSTICE WniTF, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

We will first dispose of the questions presented by the appeal of the United States. In substance, it is asserted that the
grant should have been rejected in toto, instead of being confirmed to the extent of four sitios, upon the following grounds:
1. That the claim was barred by section 12 of the act establishing the Court of Private Land Claims, because not asserted until after the expiration of two years from. the passage of the
act. True, it is said, the claim of Green was presented in time,
but as he was not represented at the trial and Cameron and
Christie were treated as the sole claimants and they had not by
their cross complaints asked for affirmative relief within the
statutory limitation, the bar of the statute was operative as to
them. 2. The intendant ad interim Bustamente, through whom
the sale to Romero and others purported to have been effected,
and the commissary general of Sonora who ultimately extended
the title, did not possess the power in the premises which they
assumed to exercise; 3. The grant in question was not duly
located prior to September 25, 1853, as required by article VI
of the Gadsden treaty; 4. The grant was not duly recorded in
the archives of Mexico prior to September 25, 1853, which was

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

made a condition precedent to the recognition of an alleged
grant, by the article of the treaty just referred to.
As respects the bar of the statute, we think the contention
is clearly without merit, even upon the hypothesis that the grant
to Romero constituted, at the date of the treaty, but an imperfect title to the extent to which the court below confirmed the
same. The provision of the act establishing the Court of Private Land Claims, relied upon, is as follows:
"SEc. 12. That all claims mentioned in section six of this act
which are by the provisions of this act authorized to be prosecuted shall, at the end of two years from the taking effect of
this act, if no petition in respect to the same shall have then
been filed as hereinbefore provided, be deemed and taken, in
all courts and elsewhere, to be abandoned, and shall be forever
barred."
By the filing of the petition on behalf of Green the court below was vested with jurisdiction to determine the validity of
the grant upon which the proceeding was based and to pass
upon the question as to whether or not the lands embraced
therein were at the date of the treaty public land of the United
States. The terms of the act establishing the Court of Private
Land Claims, with reference to a proceeding thus instituted, in
our opinion leave no room for doubt that it was the intention
of Congress to require that before a decision by the court in the
premises, all those asserting claims in the land adverse to the
United States, under the grant relied upon, should be made
parties and be heard in support of its validity. The provisions
of section six of the act, which relate to claims for confirmation
of imperfect and incomplete titles, manifestly import that every
adverse possessor or claimant should be made a party defendant, and the section prohibits the entry of a decree "otherwise
than upon full legal proof and hearing." By section seven,
"all proceedings subsequent to the filing of the petition "1are
required to "be conducted as near as may be according to the
practice of the courts of equity of the United States;" and, in
addition, it is provided as follows:
"The said court shall have full power and authority to hear
and determine all questions arising in cases before it relative to

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the title to the land the subject of such case, the extent, location and boundaries thereof, and other matters connected therewith fit and proper to be heard and determined, and by a final
decree to settle and determine the question of the validity of
the title, and the boundaries of the grant or claim presented for
adjudication, according to the law of nations, the stipulations
of the treaty concluded between the United States and the IRepublic of Mexico, at the city of Guadalupe Hidalgo, on the second day of February, in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred
and forty-eight, or the treaty concluded between the same
powers at the city of Mexico on the thirtieth day of December,
in the year of our Lord eighteen hundred and fifty-three, and
the laws and ordinances of the government from which it is alleged to have been derived, and all other questions properly
arising between the claimants or other parties in the case and
the United States, which decree shall in all cases refer to the
treaty, law or ordinance under which such claim is confirmed
or rejected."
The fact also that, by section 8, the United States may, without limitation as to time, voluntarily institute a proceeding for
the determination of the validity or invalidity of any claim or
title deemed by it "open to question," affords further support
for the construction that Congress intended that in a proceeding brought in due time to settle the validity of an alleged Spanish or Mexican grant, the United States might, at any stage of
such pending litigation, apply to the Court of Private Land
Claims-as was done by the United States with respect to the
defendant Christie-to have brought into the case adverse
claimants who had not been made parties defendant by the petitioner, in order that such parties might be afforded an opportunity to be heard, and the Court of Private Land Claims be
aided in reaching a just decision. As further establishing the
fact that it was not the purpose of Congress to deprive the
Court of Private Land Claims of power to adjudicate upon
claims asserted by defendants during the pendency of a lawful
proceeding to obtain an adjudication respecting the validity of
an alleged Mlexican grant, even though such defendants were
made parties or filed claims for affirmative relief after the pe-

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

riod limited for the institution of an original proceeding to obtain confirmation of a claim of title, we excerpt the following
proviso to the portion of section 12 heretofore quoted:
"Provided, That in any case where it shall come to the
knowledge of the court that minors, married women or persons
non compos mentis are interested in any land claim or matter
brought before the court, it shall be its duty to appoint a guardian
ad litem for such persons under disability, and require a petition to be filed in their behalf, as in other cases, and if necessary to appoint counsel for the protection of their rights."
The second and third grounds relied upon by the Government, as above stated, to defeat the claim in its entirety do not
require extended consideration, as they are foreclosed by recent
decisions of this court. By the law in force at the time of the
sale under consideration a grant initiated in the manner in
which the one in question is claimed to have been, could not
exceed, in the aggregate, four sitios. The evidence clearly
showed that the quantity of land denounced, appraised, paid
for and purported to have been granted was only four sitios.
Under these circumstances, the court below properly sustained
the grant to the extent of four sitios only. As said by the
Court of Private Land Claims: "The cause is founded on a
proceeding initiated in 1821 and concluded in 1825. In its essential features it is like Ely's Administrator v. United States,
171 U. S. 220. The proceedings under which the grant was
made are precisely like those upon which the grant in that
case was made, and were had under the same laws, and the two
grants were made by the same officer." The case in the particular stated is, therefore, ruled by Ey v. United States, supra;
United States v. )Maish, 171 U. S. 27; Perrin v. United
States, 171 U. S. 292; and United States v. Camou, and Reloj
Cattle Company v. United States, 184 U. S. 624.
As from the evidence the Court of Private Land Claims was
able to determine the true boundaries of the tract as limited,
the cases just cited are also authority for deciding that the
grant was duly located to that extent, and hence that the court
rightfully confirmed the grant for the lawful extent thereof.
The remaining ground upon which the United States con-

OCTOBER TERI,

1901.

Opinion of the Court.

tends that the claim should have been rejected, is that it was
not established that a record of the grant was made. As respects the evidence of a due recording of the grant, the case at
bar is similar to the Ely case, supra, where, however, no question was raised by the Government as to the want of a proper
record. In the Sonoita grant, passed on in the Ely case, the
final title was issued on the same day on which the final title in
the case at bar purports to have been issued, and contained a
like notation that "note of this title is taken on page 3 of book
No. 2 in this general commissariat." A memorandum of this
character appears to have been customarily endorsed on the
titulo.
The evidence in the case at bar showed that there are only
two books of Toma de Razon in the records at the capital of
the State of Sonora, Mexico. One book has the figure I written on the first page of the first leaf, and contains entries of
grants up to and including May 13, 1825. The first entry on
the other book bears date of 1831. In the case at bar the final
title or titulo, of date prior to the regulations of 1828, was admitted in evidence without objection or question as to its genuineness, nor was any objection interposed by the Government
to the introduction in evidence of a letter, dated some time in
1831, written by the provincial secretary of Sonora, on behalf
of the commissariat general of that State, alluding to the existence of the title to this San Rafael grant. The expediente is
also on file in the Mexican archives, and contains thereon a
memorandum of the issue of a grant. In view of all these circumstances it may properly be presumed that the ministerial
duty which it is claimed was imposed on the Mexican officials
of registering the fact of the making of a grant of public lands
was duly performed, and that such record was in fact made.
Whether, as held by the court below, the mere retention in the
Mexican archives of the expediente constituted the record of
the grant, within the meaning of the treaty of 1853, need not
be determined.
We come then to consider the contentions relied upon by the
claimants to sustain their appeals. Those contentions are in
substance that the grant to Romero and his associates consti-

UNITED STATES v. GREEN.
Opinion of the Court.

tuted a complete and perfect title to the full quantity of land
embraced within the original survey, which it was asserted by
witnesses for the claimants aggregated not merely four sitios,
but nearly one hundred and sixty thousand acres of land. It is
manifest however, from the authorities which we have previously
cited, that as the grant was lawful to the extent of only four
sitios, the claimants cannot be heard successfully to assert that
it embraced and could be confirmed for the larger quantity.
The previous decisions of this court also preclude the claim
for a confirmation of the grant as to the overplus upon payment
of the asserted value of such excess. In Ainsa v. United States,
184 U. S. 639, decided at this term, discussing the contention of
the claimant that he was entitled to an award of the demasias
or overplus beyond the cabida legal or real quantity granted,
upon payments of such amount as might be found due, the
court concluded as follows:
"It is obvious that this contention cannot be sustained for
the reasons indicated, and we repeat what we said in Ely's case,
171 U. S. 239: 'This government promised to inviolably respect the property of Mexicans. That means the property as
it then was, and does not imply any addition to it. The cession did not increase rights. That which was beyond challenge
before remained so after. That which was subject to challenge
before did not become a vested right after. No duty rests on
this government to recognize the validity of a grant to any
area of greater extent than was recognized by the government
of Mexico. If that government had a right, as we have seen
in Ainsa v. United States it had, to compel payment for an
overplus or resell such overplus to a third party, then this government is under no moral or legal obligations to consider
such overplus as granted, but may justly and equitably treat
the grant as limited to the area purchased and paid for.'
Counsel for claimants in their brief call 'attention to the plea
of res ajudicata interposed by the claimant Cameron, though
they do not discuss the same. The action in which the judgment thus pleaded was rendered related to land within the asserted exterior bounds of the grant, near the alleged north and
northeast monuments, as said boundaries were recited and

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

measured in the expediente. The courts of the Territory had
held that the lands enclosed were public lands of the United
States, that Cameron had unlawfully enclosed the same, and
the removal of the fence enclosing the land was ordered. On
appeal, however, this court, while expressly disclaiming any intention to pass upon the validity of the asserted title of Cameron, held that there was color of title sufficient to take the
case outside of the operation of the statute, reversed the judgment against Cameron, and remanded the case with directions
to dismiss the petition. 148 U. S. 301. It is clear that, irrespective of the question of parties, the matter passed upon in
the fence case was not the same as that which is present in the
case at bar. The fence case did not involve, as does the case
at bar, the question whether or not the claimant had a valid
title to land within the boundaries of the alleged grant, and
hence nothing decided in that case was conclusive in this.
Decree qfirmed.

COYINGTON v. COVINGTON FIRST NATIONAL
BANK.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 604. Argued and submitted March 24, 1902.-Decided April 28, 1902.
Matters within the pleadings in this case having been left undetermined
by the court below, and the cause having been detained for the purpose
of thereafter passing upon them, and for the entry of a further decree,
the decree entered below was not final, and this court is without juris-

diction to pass upon it.

Ox July 23, 1900, the appellee herein filed a bill seeking to
enjoin the threatened assessment and collection by the defendants below (appellants here) of municipal taxes under the assumed authority of an act of the general assembly of the State
of Kentucky approved larch 21, 1900, a copy of which is excerpted in the margin.'
1 "Whereas the Supreme Court of the United States has lately decided

