CASES ADJUDGED
rN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHIEPARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 508. Submitted January 13, 1902.*-Decided rarch 24 1902.
The Tulare irrigation district, in California, issued and sold its bonds for
the purpose of constructing its irrigation works. The proceeds were
used for that purpose by the corporation, and the works were by means
thereof constructed. The corporation then refused to pay the bonds,
and denied its liability on them upon the ground that it was never legally
organized as a corporation, and hence had no legal right to issue any
bonds. Held, on the authority of Douglas County Commissioners v.
Bolles, 94 U. S. 104, that common honesty demanded that a debt thus incurred should be paid; and that there was nothing in the facts in this
case to set aside the application of that principle; that if anything could
constitute a defacto corporation the defendant is one and that, being thus
a defacto corporation, none but the State can question its existence.
Under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court, the landowner
is estopped from setting up the defence of the want of notice, as against
the plaintiff in this case.

THIS was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United

States for the Southern District of California, sued out for the
purpose of reviewing a judgment of that court in favor of the
defendant in error in an action brought by him against the irrigation district only, to recover interest due on certain coupons
'

VOL. CLXXXV-1

(1)

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

attached to bonds issued by the district for the purpose of raising money to build its irrigation works. It appeared from the
complaint that the plaintiff was a resident of Michigan, and
that the Tulare irrigation district had at all times since September 2, 1889, been a corporation duly incorporated under the
laws of the State of California, and since that time had been
acting as such corporation; that under the laws of such State
the irrigation district duly issued its bonds for the amount of
$500,000 with coupons attached; that the plaintiff was a bona
fide purchaser and holder of certain of those coupons, and that
he had paid full value for the same, in the usual course of business and before any of them were due or dishonored, and in
good faith and without any notice of any defect or invalidity
of the same or any of them. Judgment for $13,185 and interest was demanded. The defendant demurred to the complaint,
the demurrer was overruled, 94 Fed. Rep. 1, and the defendant
then answered.
The answer, among other things, set up various alleged irregularities and omissions which occurred in the attempted formation of the irrigation district, on account of which, as contended,
the corporation never was legally formed and never had power
to issue bonds, and whatever bonds may have been issued were
for those reasons void. The individual defendants at this stage
applied to the court for an order permitting them to intervene
in the action as parties therein, and to unite with the defendant corporation in resisting the claims of the plaintiff in this
action. The court thereupon ordered that the petitioners' complaint in intervention should be filed without prejudice to the
plaintiff's motion to strike out the same. They then filed what
they termed their complaint in intervention in this action, (which
is nothing more than an answer to the complaint,) in which
they set up that the defendant Kelly was a citizen of the United
States and a resident of the State of Massachusetts, and that
ever since January 1, 1889, he had been and was at the time of
the commencement of the suit the owner of the land which he
described, and which was situate within the boundaries of the
county of Tulare, California, and within the boundaries of the
alleged Tulare irrigation district; that Jauchius, the other de-

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.
Statement of the Case.

fendant, was a citizen of the United States and a resident of
the State of California, and that he, ever since January 1,1889,
had been the owner of certain other described real property
also situate in the district, and they alleged that they were
interested in the subject-matter of the action and in the success
of the defendant; that if the bonds and coupons mentioned in
the plaintiff's complaint were adjudged valid claims against the
district, then the property of intervenors in the district would
be assessed and taxes levied thereon to pay the claim of the
plaintiff. They then set up substantially the same defences that
were pleaded by the irrigation district in its answer. Also that
to permit the collection of the bonds would take defendants'
property without due process of law and in violation of the
Federal Constitution.
The chief defect as set up in both pleadings and specially
argued here was in regard to the organization of the district,
the defect being an alleged insufficiency of the notice of the intended presentation of the petition to the board of supervisors,
by reason of which, as averred, no legal notice was given, and,
therefore, all subsequent proceedings were void and of no effect.
Subsequently to the service of the answer Jauchius died, and
his executor was made a party in his place.
The case came to trial upon a stipulation to waive a jury, was
submitted upon an agreed statement of facts, and thereafter
the court made its general findings in favor of the plaintiff,
assessed his damages at the sum of $13,185, and ordered judgment against the irrigation district for that sum.
It was stipulated that any of the facts contained in the statement might be offered in evidence by any party to the action,
and when so offered the party not offering the same might object
to such facts or any of them upon legal grounds which might
exist against their admissibility. The statement of facts contained twenty-one paragraphs. The first twelve were offered
in evidence on the part of the plaintiff and received by the court
under the defendant's objection and exception. The facts thus
admitted showed that under the provisions of the irrigation act
of the State of California, approved March 7, 1887, an effort
was made in the county of Tulare to form an irrigation district

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

to be known as "Tulare irrigation district," and such proceedings were had in that behalf that what purported to be a certified copy of an order of the board of supervisors of that county
was duly filed with the county recorder on September 14, 1889 ;
that order recited that the board of supervisors of Tulare County,
State of California, met as a board of canvassers on Monday,
September 2, 1889, for the purpose of determining the result of
the special election held in Tulare County on August 24, 1889,
to vote upon the subject of the organization of the Tulare irrigation district and officers therefor, by which it appeared that
there were 484 votes cast in favor of forming the district and
7 against it. The order then continued as follows: "And we
further declare the territory embraced in the following described
limits, to wit: (describing territory) an irrigation district duly
organized under the name and style of ' Tulare irrigation district,' being situate in the county of Tulare, State of California."
This declaration was made in accordance with section 3 of the
act to form irrigation districts. The order further declared the
election of the directors in the various divisions of the district.
The material sections of the act under which the attempt to
form the district was made are to be found set forth in the case
of Fallbroo IirrigationDistrict v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 116.
The persons declared by the order of the board of supervisors
thereto have been elected as officers of the district immediately
entered
thereupon
and
officers,
such
as
after assumed to organize
upon their duties the same as though said district had been
legally organized and as though they had been legally elected
ever
as such officers, and they and their successors in office have
name
the
maintain
to
and
since continued to act as such officers
of "Tulare irrigation district," and in its name have caused the
defendant to act as though it was in every respect legally organized as an irrigation district under the act of the legislature,
and in that behalf it has at all such times had the name "Tulare
irrigation district" printed upon a sign above a door in front
of an office in which the archives and papers of said defendant
are kept; and its board of directors have met from time to time
in such room from the time of such purported organization
thereof until the present, weekly and sometimes oftener, averag-

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

5

Statement of the Case.

In June, 1890, pursuant to the provisions
of the statute, an election was held within the district to determine whether its bonds should be issued, resulting in favor of
issuing the same, and in the years 1891, 1892, 1893 its board of
directors purported to issue bonds of such Tulare irrigation district in the sum of $500,000, being 1000 bonds of the face value
of $500 each, and levied assessments on the property embraced
in said district, purporting to act in so doing under the act of
the legislature, and previous to July 1, 1896, it assessed, levied
and collected taxes upon the lands in such district of over
$100,000, and paid the same out through its treasurer as interest
upon such bonds; the proceeds arising from the sale of the
bonds have been used by the district in constructing a system of
canals, ditches and laterals through the lands of the district, by
means of which such lands have been irrigated.; it has engaged
in litigation as plaintiff in suits before the issuing of such bonds,
and therein alleged that it was a corporation under the provisions of the act of the legislature, and from the time of its
purported organization until the present time, whatever it has
done and performed, it has done and performed in the same
manner as if it had been legally organized as such district, in
full compliance with the law, and so continues to act and hold
itself out as a corporation organized under that law. No one
ever brought suit or took any action to prevent the issuing of
any of the bonds, nor was any suit or action ever brought to
annul or cancel or have declared void any of the bonds until
after the year 1896. No action in the nature of a quo warranto
was ever commenced, nor any other proceeding, to test the
validity of the organization of the district.
The plaintiff at the commencement of the* action was the
holder and owner of the coupons upon which action was brought,
and became the holder of the coupons on which he brought his
action under the circumstances detailed in the agreed statement
of facts, showing that he was a bonafide holder for value without notice.
The plaintiff also offered, and the same was received in evidence, the judgment roll In the matter of Tulare ITrrigation
Disotrit,in the Superior Court of Tulare County, which was a

ing twice a month.

OCTOBER TERMI,

1901.

Statement of the Case.

proceeding under what is called the California confirmation act
in regard to irrigation districts, and which is mentioned in Tregea v. A'odesto Irrigation -District,164 U. S. 179, 181. The
proceedings under this confirmation act showed a judgment of
the court confirming the validity of the organization of the district. This was duly objected to, and received under the exception of the defendants. After some oral evidence had been
given in regard to the execution of the bonds by the officers of
the district, the plaintiff rested.
The defendants then offered separately each of the remaining paragraphs from 13 to 21, both inclusive, in the agreed
statement of facts, and each under the objection of the plaintiff
and exception of the defendants was excluded. From the facts
thus offered it appears that a petition addressed to the board of
supervisors of Tulare County was on July 1, 1889, filed with the
board at a regular meeting; that this petition was printed and
published prior thereto for two weeks during the month of June,
18S9, and in a newspaper printed and published in Tulare County.
The petition contained a statement that the petitioners were freeholders owning land within the district which was described in
the petition, and that it was all situated within Tulare County,
and that the petitioners desired to provide for the irrigation of
the same; that the proposed district as described was susceptible of one mode of irrigation from a common source and bythe same system of works, by conveying the waters of Kaweah
River by means of dams thereon and by main and distributing
canals therefrom. The petitioners prayed that the district described in the petition be organized into an irrigation district
under the act of the legislature of California approved March 7,
1887. The petition then gave the boundaries of the proposed
district, and asked that it be designated as the Tulare irrigation
district. This petition was signed at the end thereof, each petitioner stating the number of acres owned by him. Following
these signatures was a paper like this:
"NOTIcE.

"Pursuant to the statutes in such cases made and provided,
notice is hereby given that the above and foregoing petition

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.
Counsel for Parties.

will be presented to the board of supervisors in and for the
county of Tulare, at their first regular meeting in the month
of July, 1889, to wit, on Monday the first day of July, 1889, at
which time any person or persons desiring so to do may present
their objections, if any they have, why said petition should not
be granted."
The signatures to the petition were not repeated at the end
of the notice. This notice was in the same type as the petition,
and in the newspaper it was enclosed with the petition between
two black lines across the column, the first at the head of the
petition and the last at the end of the notice.
The alleged defect in this publication consists in the fact that
although the petition was printed in full and the names of the
signers with the number of acres owned by them follow the
petition, yet as the notice of the presentation of the petition
follows the signatures to such petition, and the notice is not
signed by the petitioners, it lacks those essential signatures, and
for that reason is not a valid notice, and becomes in law no notice whatever.
The defendants also offered in evidence a second judgment
in the matter of the Tulare irrigation district setting aside the
former judgment of confirmation and refusing to confirm the
validity of the organization of the district. The judgment was
excluded upon the objection of the plaintiff. All these offered
facts having been excluded, the court .made a general finding
in favor of the plaintiff. The individual defendants now contend that the court, in granting judgment for the plaintiff, did
in effect permit the taking of their property without due process of law, in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
..George H. Xaxwell and JIIr. 7ohn Garber for plaintiff
in error. AXr. Calvin L. Russell, Atr. G. I. Zartman and
-Mr. 1R. ZA.F. Soto were on their brief.
Xrr. S. F. Leib for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PECHAAE, after making the foregoing statement
of facts,' delivered the opinion of the court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

It is agreed in the statement of facts in this case that the
moneys received from the sale of the bonds in suit were applied
to building and constructing the irrigation works now in use
by the defendant corporation. It has, therefore, received the
full consideration for which the bonds were issued, has built its
works with the proceeds, and uses such works for the purposes
intended. Notwithstanding these facts, it now refuses to pay
the bonds or the interest thereon, and, while acting as a corporation, at all times, still sets up that it was never legally organized, and hence had no legal right to issue any bonds.
In the case of Douglas Gounty Commissioners v. BoZles, 94
U. S. 104, 110, a case involving facts somewhat similar, this
court said: "Common honesty demands that a debt thus incurred should be paid." That sentiment has lost no force by
the lapse of time, and we think it applies in its full strength to
this case. Unless there be some settled rule of law which prevents a recovery in this action, the judgment under review
should be affirmed.
The sole ground of defence which has been urged at the bar
has been an alleged defect in the notice of the intended presentation of the petition to form the district, to the board of supervisors, the defect consisting in the omission to add at the end
of the notice the names of the signers to the petition which
immediately precedes it.
Section two of the act approved March 7, 1887, commonly
called the "Wright Act" of the California legislature, provides
that the petition for the organization of an irrigation district
shall be presented to the board of supervisors of the county in
which the lands are situated, signed by the required number
of freeholders mentioned in the first section, which petition
must describe the proposed boundaries of the district, and pray
that the same may be organized under the provisions of the
act. The petition must be presented at a regular meeting of
the board of supervisors and be published for at least two
weeks before the time at which the same is to be presented, in
some newspaper printed and published in the county where
the petition is to be presented, "together with a notice stating
the time of the meeting at which the same will be presented."

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

9

Opinion of the Court.

In this case a proper petition complying with the provisions of
the act was made and signed by the requisite number of freeholders.. The petition, with the signatures of such freeholders
appended, was published in the proper newspaper, together
with a notice as provided for in the act, but the signatures of
the freeholders which were appended to the petition were not
reproduced at the end of the notice. The petition, signatures
and notice were published in the same column and as one entire
proceeding, separated from the rest of the contents of the newspaper by a black line across the column immediately preceding
the petition and another black line across the column at the end
of the notice. In this way it was separated from all other matter in the paper. It is now urged that this failure to reprint the
signatures to the petition at the end of the notice rendered it
of no effect in law, and that the result was the same as if no
notice at all had been published. It is, therefore, argued that
the action of the board of supervisors, when the petition was
in fact presented and proof taken in regard to the facts stated
therein, in accordance with the published notice, was without
legal effect, and the determination of the board of supervisors,
after a hearing before it, that some of the lands described in
the petition would be benefited by irrigation, including those
of the individual plaintiffs in error was wholly without validity,
because the board acquired no jurisdiction over the subject on
account of the absence of notice; the board, having no jurisdiction, could make no valid determination as to the organization of the district; the district could issue no valid bonds;
and the fact of the absence of notice could be shown as a defence to bonds that were issued, no matter under what circumstances the defence should arise. It was then contended that
to permit a recovery would result in the taking of the property
of the individual defendants, by means of an assessment and
without due process of law.
It is not urged here that the plaintiff below was not a bona
fide purchaser for full value without notice of any defective
organization or want of power in the corporation to issue the
bonds. Upon the stipulation of facts no such defence could
prevail. The whole force of the defence rests, therefore, upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

this alleged defective notice because of the failure to reprint
the names of the signers to the petition at the end of such notice. Is this such a defect as to practically amount to an absence of notice so that the board of supervisors could acquire
no jurisdiction upon presentation of the petition? Certainly
the notice could mislead no one. It gave full and detailed information in regard to the time and place at which the petition
would be presented to the board of supervisors. It cannot be
claimed that the notice itself did not give all the information
provided for by the statute, and it warned all persons who
might desire so to do to present their objections at the time
and place named why the petition should not be granted. Any
one on reading the notice obtained thereby all necessary knowledge to enable him to attend at the time and place mentioned
and present any objection that he might have against the granting of the petition. The petition which preceded the notice
was signed by a sufficient number of landowners, and the notice which followed the signatures to the petition evidently
formed part of the proceeding inaugurated by the signers to
the petition to take the necessary steps to organize an irrigation
district. The whole thing, petition, names of signers thereto,
and notice, was published the statutory time and also posted as
required. As published, it evidently formed but one proceeding, and the notice was part thereof. Could any one fairly
misunderstand the fact that the notice was part of the action
of the signers to the petition, and, when precisely in accordance
with the terms stated in the notice, the petition was publicly
presented to the board of supervisors, was not the statute sufficiently complied with to give jurisdiction to that body to proceed to determine the facts in accordance with the provisions
of the statute? Was not the notice fairly and substantially authenticated as a notice given by the signers to the petition?
In the case of In re Central Irrigation District, 117 California, 382, the Supreme Court of that State has held that the
publication of a notice similar to this, unsigned and unauthenticated, was invalid, and the defect could not be cured by proof
of actual notice or knowledge on the part of those to be affected
thereby. It is urged that this decision of the Supreme Court

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

11

Opinion of the Court.

of the State should be followed by us, because it is in effect
the construction given by the state court to a statute of the
State. We are not entirely persuaded that this claim is well
founded. It night, on the contrary, be urged with much force
that the decision was based upon principles of general law as
to whether a notice presupposes by its very terms, and makes
absolutely necessary in all cases, a signature at the end thereof,
and it might be claimed that the case came within the principle decided in 7Fenice v. .urdock, 92 U. S. 494, where this
court refused to follow the prior decisions of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York made in cases arising upon a
New York statute and under a similar state of facts, on the
ground that those decisions did not present a case of statutory
construction. See also Th'ompson v. Perrine, 103 U. S. 806.
And again, the bonds in question here were issued not later
than 1893, while the decision of the California state court was
not made until June, 1897, and there being no other decision
of the state court upon the particular point it might be reasonably maintained that the matter should be regarded as open to
be decided in accordance with our own views of the subject.
We do not deem it necessary to decide the question here,
because there are other facts upon which we can base our
judgment without impugning the decision of the state court.
Assuming, therefore, for the purpose of this case, though not
deciding, that the notice was insufficient, and did not fully
comply with the statute, it will be seen that the case above
referred to does not decide that the question of the defective
organization could be raised as against bona fide holders of
bonds issued by the district. The action in that case was commenced under a California statute providing for the taking of
proceedings to confirm the validity of the organization of an
irrigation district, and although the statute under which an irrigation district is to be formed provides for a determination
of the fact of due organization by the board of supervisors, yet
the proceedings under the confirmation act are expressly directed to be had to review the determination of that board, so
that there is express statutory authority to go behind that determination in that proceeding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

But assuming that the failure to sign the notice resulted in a
failure to organize a de jure irrigation district, and that in a
direct proceeding, such as is provided for by the confirmation
act, or in a quo warranto action, the determination of the
board of supervisors could be reviewed, it does not follow that
such determination could be reviewed in a collateral action on
the part of a bonafide holder of bonds to recover the principal
or interest thereon. In the case spoken of the Supreme Court
of California, while deciding upon the invalidity of the organization, refused to pass upon the question whether the bonds of
the district were void for the reason that proper notice was
not given, and the court in refusing to decide the question remarks that, "It is not proper because some of the bonds (it is
insisted) had been sold and had passed into the hands of bona
fide purchasers before the institution of this proceeding.
After the issue, and before the sale, of any of the bonds it may
well be of advantage to the district and to intending purchasers
that the judgment of a court should be invoked to pass upon
the regularity of the action of the district officers, but after
sale different questions present themselves. The bonds are
negotiable; public corporations are estopped from setting up
many defences of irregularity against the innocent holders of
such negotiable securities. Whether or not the holder be an
innocent purchaser and a purchaser without notice, is itself a
question which cannot be determined in this proceeding. From
all these considerations, and others which will readily suggest
themselves, it is proper, in cases where bonds of a district have
been actually sold before institution of confirmation proceedings, to refuse consideration to questions of the regularity of
such sales, leaving their determination to that forum before
which appropriate action may be brought to test the questions,
for it is only in such an action before such a court that there
will be found full and unquestioned jurisdiction of the subject
matter, and of all the necessary parties, as well as power to determine all objections and defences." We may therefore proceed to the inquiry as to the liability of the corporation to a
boncftde holder of its bonds, without further reference to the
above case.

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

13

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court of the State has held that irrigation districts were public municipal corporations, Central Irrigation
District v. Do Lappe, 79 California, 351; In 'e .MaderaIrrigation. District, 92 California, 296; Quint v. Hoflfman, 103
California, 506, and the statute providing for their creation has
been held to be one that should be liberally construed. 79
California, supra. The Supreme Court of California and this
court have also decided that the irrigation act is a valid statute, and that it violates neither the state nor the Federal Constitution. Fatlbrook case, 164 U. S.112-159, and cases cited.
Even though the irrigation district failed to become organized as a do jure corporation, it may still have been acting as
a corporation de facto. That there may be such a corporation
cannot be doubted. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad Company
v. Fifth Baptist C]iurch, 137 U. S.568, 571; Shaleigh v. San
Angelo, 167 U. S.646, 655; see also cases decided by the Federal courts in California, Mfiller v. Perris IrrigationDistrict,
85 Fed. Rep. 693, again reported in 99 Fed. IRep. 143; Herring
v. . odesto .rrigationDistrict,95 Fed. Rep. 705 ; also Lamming
v. Galusha, 81 Hun, 247, affirmed by the Court of Appeals on
the opinion of the court below in 151 N. Y. 648; Stout v. Zulick, 48 N. J. Law, 599; Snider's Son's Co. v. Troy, 91 Alabama, 224; American Salt Co. v. feidenheimer, 80 Texas, 344;
Taylor on Corporations, 4th ed. see. 146.
From the authorities, some of which are above cited, it appears that the requisites to constitute a corporation de facto
are three: (1) a charter or general law under which such a
corporation as it purports to be might lawfully be organized;
(2) an attempt to organize thereunder; and (3) actual user of
the corporate franchise. The case at bar contains these requisites. There was a general valid law under which a corporation, such as the defendant is claimed to be, could be formed;
there was undoubtedly a bona fde attempt to organize thereunder, and there has been actual userof the corporate franchise.
In the progress of the attempt to organize the district the determination of the board of supervisors was made under the
provisions of the statute, declaring the body to be a duly organized irrigation district. Subsequently officers were elected

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

and took office and have ever since discharged the duties thereof
under the statute, and a special election was held to determine
the question of issuing bonds, and the bonds were issued pursuant to the result of such election, and suits have been commenced in the name of the corporation. In brief, if anything
can constitute a de facto corporation, the defendant herein
constitutes one.
The case of 2ToYton v. Shelby County, 118 U. S. 425, contains
no doctrine in opposition. In that case the state court of Tennessee had held that the so-called board of commissioners of
Shelby County, organized under the act of March 9, 1867, had
no lawful existence; that it was an unauthorized and illegal
body, and its members were usurpers of the functions and
powers of the justices of the peace of the county; that their
action in holding a county court was void, and that their acts
in subscribing to the stock of the Mississippi Railroad Company and issuing bonds in payment therefor were void. Those
acts the bondholders had endeavored to sustain by claiming
that they were the acts of de facto officers, and that under
such circumstances it was not material whether the board of
commissioners had a lawful existence or not. This court held
there could be no d6 facto officer where the office itself had no
legal existence. If there be no office to fill, there can be no
officer either de jure or de facto, and as the act attempting to
create the office never became a law, the office itself never came
into existence; it was a misapplication of terms to call one an
officer who holds no office, and a public office could exist only
by force of law.
In the case now before us there was a valid law providing
for the creation of just such a corporation as the defendant
claimed to be. There was a bona fide attempt to organize under it and there had been a user of the franchise, and within
the authorities already cited a corporation de facto was thereby
constituted.
Being a defacto corporation, the general rule is that none
but the State can call its existence in question. The courts of
California agree that such is the rule. People v. ontecito irrigation Company, 97 California, 276; Quint v. Roffman, 103

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

15

Opinion of the Court.

California, supra; see also, Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, page 312, 4th ed.; Swartwout v. .fichigan Air Line
Railroad Co., 24 Michigan, 389, 393. The rule as stated by
Cooley in Constitutional Limitations, 6th edition, 309, is as follows:
"In proceedings where the question whether a corporation
exists or not arises collaterally, the courts will not permit its
corporate character to be questioned, if it appear to be acting
under color of law, and recognized by the State as such.
And the rule, we apprehend, would be no different, if the constitution itself prescribed the manner of incorporation. Even
in such a case, proof that the corporation was acting as such,
under legislative action, would be sufficient evidence of right,
except as against the State, and private parties could not enter
upon any question of regularity. And the State itself may
justly be precluded, on principles of estoppel, from raising any
such objection, where there has been long acquiescence and
recognition."
It was held in S/ayleigh v. San Angelo, 167 U. S. supra, that
none but the State could impeach the validity of the creation
of a municipal organization, and that if it acquiesced therein
the corporate existence could not be collaterally attacked. The
court, through Mr. Justice Shiras, said:
"The doctrine successfully invoked in the court below by
the defendant, that where a municipal incorporation is wholly
void ab initio, as being created without warrant of law, it
could create no debts and could incur no liabilities, does not,
in our opinion, apply to the case of an irregularly organized
corporation, which had obtained, by compliance with a general
law authorizing the formation of municipal corporations, an
organization valid as against everybody, except the State acting by direct proceedings. Such an organization is merely voidable, and if the State refrains from acting until after debts are
created, the obligations are not destroyed by a dissolution of
the corporation, but it will be presumed that the State intended
that they should be devolved upon the new corporation which
succeeded, by operation of law, to the property and improvements of its predecessor."

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

It cannot be said that this corporation was created without
warrant of law. There was a valid law and there was a bona
fide attempt to organize under it, and the most that can be said
is that there was a failure to comply with all the directions of
the statute by which a corporation dejure might be organized.
It is contended, however, that there is an exception to the
general rule in such a case as this, because the proceedings of
the corporation may result in the levy of an assessment upon
lands of private owners within the district, and such owners
are therefore permitted to raise at any time the question of the
illegality by reason of the want of notice of the organization
of the corporation. The case in 117 California, suzpra, also
the cases of Reclamation District v. Burger, 122 California,
442, and Fallbrook IrrigationOonpany v. Bradley, 164 U. S.
112, 170, are cited to show the illegality of an organiiation
without notice. On the other hand, Reclamation District v.
GCray, 95 California, 601, holds that the landowner could not
collaterally attack the validity of the organization of the district. It is-true there was a validating statute passed in that
case and the assessment was made after the date of the passage
of such act, but the act assumed to cure the irregularities of an
organization prior thereto. In Swamp Land Districtv. Silver,
98 California, 51, it was again held that no attack upon the
organization could collaterally be made, even in an action to
recover an assessment. But whatever may be the decisions in
California, the plaintiffs in error claim that this court in Fllbrook b'rigation Comrpany v. Bradley, 161 U. S. supra, has
held that there must be notice to the landowner and an opportunity to contest the question of alleged benefits to his property by the organization of the irrigation district, or else the
organization is invalid and the landowner can show it in a
collateral action and at any time the question may arise. It is
not denied that the statute provides for a notice and an opportunity to be heard, but the allegation simply is that there was
not any notice in fact.
The Fallbrookcase held that the statute did provide for notice
and opportunity to show that the land would not be benefited
by being included in the district. It did not hold that under

TULARE IRRIGA!TION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

17

Opinion of the Court.

all circumstances the landowner could, at any time, show the
absence of notice even against a bona fRde purchaser of bonds
subsequently issued, and we think that the landowner may be
prevented from showing want of notice in such a case as the
one presented herein-a bonafide holder of bonds for full value
without notice, and a landowner sleeping upon his rights.
The case of _Yew York Cable Company v. .Mayor, &c., 104
N. Y. 1, 43, is cited to the point that where it is sought to take
the property of an individual under powers granted by the State
to a corporation to be formed in a particular manner therein
directed, the constitutional protection of the rights of private
property requires that the powers granted be strictly pursued
and all the prescribed conditions performed, and that hence, if
the corporation be simply a de facto and not a de jure corporation; it cannot take private property in invitum. The case
simply asserts the principle that the right of eminent domain cannot be exercised by a corporation defacto, and that the question
of valid organization could be raised when such a corporation
sought to condemn lands. That is one of the exceptions to the
general rule in regard to a corporation de facto. When a corporation seeks to divest title to private property and to take it
for the purposes of its incorporation, it must then show that it
is a corporation dejure,for the law has only given the right to
take private property to that kind of a corporatioi. But even
in such case it may happen that a party would be precluded
from setting up the defence by matters in pais amounting to
an estoppel or an admission.
It is enough to say here, however, that this action by an individual plaintiff against a corporation de facto, to recover a
money judgment for a debt due the plaintiff, bears no similarity
to a proceeding by a corporation to condemn land for its own
use, in which case it must be a corporation deJure.
In this case we have the fact that the plaintiff is a lona)fide
purchaser of the coupons, for value and without notice of any
defect in their validity, and an examination of the statute shows
provision for the determination by the board of supervisors of
the fact that the district has been duly organized. The record
shows the entry of an order by the board of supervisors, by
VOL. CLXXXV-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

which that board declared the territory embraced in the limits
therein described to be an irrigation district, duly organized under the name and style of the Tulare irrigation district, situated
in the county of Tulare and State of California. A copy of this
order was filed in the office of the county recorder, and after
the date of such filing the statute declares the organization shall
be complete. Section 15 of the statute provides that when the
bonds shall be issued "said bonds shall express on their face
that they were issued by authority of this act, stating its title
and date of approval."
It thus appears that the statute confided to and imposed upon
the board of supervisors the duty of inquiry by proof as to compliance with the statute and required a decision by it in regard
thereto, and when the provisions of the statute had been complied with and the corporation organized the duty was imposed
upon the board (section 3) to "declare such territory duly organized as an irrigation district under the name and style theretofore designated." All this was done. The board of supervisors made its determination; it was the body provided for and
appointed by the statute to make it, and it was to be made by
an order duly entered and a copy of it filed with the county recorder, thus making a full and complete record of the fact of
the determination by the board of the question of organization
confided to the board for decision by the statute itself. The
proof shows that officers were duly elected, entered upon the
duties of their various offices, and that an election was held and
the district determined to issue bonds. The landowners acquiesced in the action of the board of supervisors from the time of
the presentation of the petition to that body, so far that none
questioned the validity of the organization by quo warracnto or
otherwise, and no suit of any kind was instituted to prevent the
issue of the bonds. Not only were no steps taken to prevent
their issue or test the right of the district to issue them, but
their sale was made after a public election, and the proceeds
arising therefrom were used to create and build the irrigation
system, which is still in active operation and now in the possession of the company. Interest has been paid on the bonds thus
issued (which issue was not later than 1893) up to 1896. Assess-

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

19

Opinion of the Court.

ments to pay the interest arising during that time have been
levied and collected from the owners of lands in the district.
Under these circumstances and by reason of the statute and the
recitals in the bonds we think the landowner is estopped from
setting up the defence of the want of notice, as against the
plaintiff in this case, because he is a bona fide holder for full
value without notice, and because the landowners acquiesced in
the issue of the bonds and have received the full benefit of their
proceeds.
The bonds in this case contained a recital in accordance with
the provisions of the statute, as follows : "This bond is one of
a series of bonds amounting in the aggregate to $500,000,
caused to be issued by the board of directors of said Tulare irrigation district, by authority and pursuant to.the provisions of
an act of the legislature of the State of Oalifornia entitled ' An
act to provide for the organization and government of irrigation districts and to provide for the acquisition of water and
other property, and for the distribution of water thereby for
irrigation purposes, approved Mfarch 7, 1887,' and also by
authority of and in accordance with the vote of the qualified
electors of said irrigation district at a special election held on
the 7th day of June, 1890." The provision in the statute, that
the bonds should express on their face that they were issued by
authority of the act, stating its title and date of approval, was
evidently for the purpose of giving them greater negotiability.
A recital as directed by the statute, that the bond was issued
by the authority of the statute, and also pursuant to the provisions thereof, and in accordance with the vote of the qualified electors, was a statement upon which a purchaser would
have the right to rely, and to assume therefrom that all prior
acts necessary to be done to give the bond validity had been
done, because otherwise the bond would not be issued under the
authority and pursuant to the provisions of an act which provided for certain things to be done when they were not done
in the particular case in hand.
But even if the recital were not broad enough to conclude the
party who issued the bonds, which we do not at all admit, yet
as the statute invested the board of supervisors with power to

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

decide whether the district had been duly organized, the exercise of that power by the board and its determination that the
district had been legally and duly organized, (such determination being evidenced by the order duly recorded as provided
for in the statute,) was a finding of fact upon which the purchaser had a right to rely, as it was the record provided by
the statute, made by a body directed by it to determine the very
fact in question, and in such cases the finding is conclusive in
favor of a bonafide holder of bonds. Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
484; -Venice v. .Xurdock, 92 U. S. 494.
In Bissell v. Jeffersonville, 24 How. 287, the common council
of the city had authority to subscribe for stock in a railway
company and to issue bonds for such subscription upon the petition of three fourths of the legal voters of the city. The common council made a determination that the petition presented
contained three fourths of such legal voters, and the bonds were
thereupon issued. The bonds having been issued, the city defaulted in the payment of the interest, and an action was
brought to recover such installments in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Indiana. After the plaintiff
had given evidence from the records of the common council
that it had determined that three fourths of the legal voters of
the city had petitioned for the issuiug of such bonds, the defendant offered parol testimony to show that three fourths of the
legal voters of the city did not so petition. The evidence was
admitted under objection, and under the rulings the jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendants, and the case was
brought here for review. This court, upon that question,
through Air. Justice Clifford, said (page 296):
"Unless three fourths of the legal voters had petitioned, it is
clear that the bonds were -issued without authority, as by the
terms of the explanatory act it could only apply to a case where
the common council of a city had contracted the obligation or
liabilities therein specified upon the petition of three fourths of
the legal voters of such city; and if no such petition had been
presented, or if it was not signed by the requisite number of
the legal voters, the law did not authorize the common council
to ratify and affirm the subscription. That fact, however, had

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICT v. SHEPARD.

21

Opinion of the Court.

been previously ascertained and determined by the board to
which the petition was originally addressed."
The court then considered the effect of the determination by
the common council as between the defendant and the holders
for value of the bonds without notice of the supposed defects in
the proceedings under which they were issued and put upon
the market, and stated as follows (p. 299):
"Jurisdiction of the subject-matter on the part of the common
council was made to depend upon the petition, as described in
the explanatory act, and of necessity there must be some tribunal to determine whether the petitioners, whose names were appended, constituted three fourths of the legal voters of the city,
else the board could not act at all. None other than the common
council, to whom the petition was required to be addressed, is
suggested, either in the charter or the explanatory act, and it
would be difficult to point out any other sustaining a similar
relation to the city so fit to be charged with the inquiry, or one
so fully possessed of the necessary means of information to discharge the duty. Adopting the language of this court in the
case of the Knox County Commissioners v. A,!pinwall et al., 21
How. 544, we are of the opinion that ' this board was one, from
its organization and general duties, fit and competent to be the
depositary of the trust confided to it.' Perfect acquiescence
in the decision and action of the board seems to have been
manifested by the defendants until the demand was made for
the payment of interest on the loan. So far as appears, they
never attempted to enjoin the proceedings but suffered the
authority to be executed, the bonds to be issued, and to be delivered to the railroad company, without interference or complaint. When the contract bad been ratified and affirmed, and
the bonds issued and delivered to the railroad company in exchange for the stock, it was then too late to call in question the
fact determined by the common council, and afortioriit is too
late to raise that question in a case like the present, where it is
shown that the plaintiffs are innocent holders for value."
The statute in the present case distinctly provides for the
determination of the question of fact by the board of supervisors and for the embodying of such determination in an or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

der, to be entered and a certified copy to be filed with the
county recorder. It is not left to inference as to which is the
body to make the determination.
In Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S. 227,

the question arose as to whether there had been the requisite
length of notice of the election to determine the question
whether or not the bonds should be issued. The statute required that at least thirty days' notice of the election should
be given, and it was thereby made the duty of the board of
county commissioners to subscribe for the stock and issue the
bonds after such assent of the majority of the voters had been
given. Subsequently in a suit against the board of county
commissioners on coupons due on the bonds that had been issued and which had been bought by a bonafide purchaser, the
record showed an order for the election made thirty-three
days before it was to be held, and that subsequently to the
election the board canvassed the returns and certified that
there was a majority of the voters in favor of the proposition,
and that the board had made such vote the basis of their action in subscribing to the stock and issuing the bonds to the
company. The bonds recited on their face that they were issued "in pursuance to the vote of the electors of Anderson
County, of September 13, 1869." It was held that the statement in the bonds as to the vote was equivalent to a statement
that the vote was one lawful and regular in form, such as the
law then in force required as to prior notice, and that as respected the plaintiff, evidence by the defendant to show less
than thirty days' notice of the election could not avail. At
page 238 the court said:
"The bond recites the wrong act, but if that part of the recital be rejected, there remains the statement that the bond ' is
executed and issued' ' in pursuance to the vote of the electors
of Anderson County, of September 13, 1869. The act of 1869
provides that when the assent of a majority of those voting
at the election is given to the subscription to the stock, the
county commissioners shall make the subscription, and shall
pay for it, and for the stock thereby agreed to be taken,
by issuing to the company the bonds of the county. The

TULARE iRRiGATION DISTRTCP z SHhPARD.

2

Opinion of the Court.

provision of section 51 is 'that when such assent shall have
been given,' it shall be the duty of the county commissioners to make the subscription. What is the meaning of
the words 'such assent .' They mean the assent of the prescribed majority, as the result of an election held in pursuance
of such notice as the act prescribes. The county commissioners were the persons authorized by the act to ascertain and determine whether 'such assent' had been given; and necessarily
so, because, on the ascertainment by them of the fact of ' such
assent,' they were charged with 'the duty'-that is the language-of making the subscription, and the duty of issuing
the bonds. They were equally charged with the duty of ascertaining the fact of the assent. The record evidence of their
proceedings shows that their order for the election was made
thirty-three days before the election was to be held; that they
met ' pursuant to law for the purpose of canvassing returns of
the election;' that they discharged that duty and certified that
there was a majority of votes in favor of the proposition; that,
in November, 1869, they resolved that, 'in accordance with
the vote, heretofore had and taken, of the electors of said
county to that effect,' they subscribed for the stock; and that,
in July, 1870, in their order authorizing the bonds to be delivered by Joy to the company, they recited that the bonds were
issued 'according to the provisions of the vote of the electors
of said county.' In view of all this, the statement by the
commissioners, in the bond, that it is issued ' in pursuance to
the vote of the electors of Anderson County, of September 13,
1869,' is equivalent to a statement that ' the vote' was a vote
lawful and regular in form, and such as the law then in force
required, in respect to prior notice. The case is, therefore,
brought within the cases, of which there is a long line in this
court, illustrated by Town of Coloma v. Eaves, 92 U. S. 484,
491, and which hold, in the language of that case, that 'where
legislative authority has been given to a municipality or to its
officers to subscribe for the stock of a railroad company, and to
issue municipal bonds in payment, but only on some precedent
condition, such as a popular vote favoring the subscription, and
where it may be gathered from the legislative enactment that

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the officers of the municipality were invested with the power
to decide whether the condition precedent has been complied
with, their recital that it has been, made inthe bonds issued by
them and held by a bona fide purchaser, is conclusive of the
fact, and binding upon the municipality; for the recital is itself a decision of the fact by the appointed tribunal.' This
doctrine is adhered to by this court. Dieon County v. Field,
111 U. S. 83, 93, 94."
In Andes v. Ely, 158 U. S. 312, the doctrine was affirmed
that where an officer is charged by law with the duty to decide
certain facts, his decision thereon is conclusive and takes the
form of a judgment, only to be reviewed by a higher court. At
page 324 the court said: "Whether the various steps were taken
which in this particular case justified the issue of the bonds,
was a question of fact; and when the bonds on their face recite
that those steps have been taken it is the settled rule of this
court that in an action brought by a bonafide holder the municipality is estopped from showing the contrary."
In P'ovident Life & Trust Company v. ifiereer County, 170

U. S. 593, where the fact whether a condition precedent had
been performed before the issuing of the bonds was confided
for decision to a trustee, it was held that his decision that the
condition precedent had been complied with was conclusive in
favor of a bona fide bolder, even though the condition had in
fact not been performed.
And in the case of 'Waite v. Santa Criuz City, 184 U. S. 302,
decided at this term, many authorities upon this question are
cited in the opinion by Mr. T'ustice Hlarlan. Those authorities
need not be repeated here, a reference to them as contained in
that opinion being all that is necessary.
The case of Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168 U. S. 224, bad
nothing to do with the principles governing the law relating to
bonafide owners of municipal bonds, or with the effect of recitals
contained in such bonds. It was a case of an alleged invalid
assessment levied to collect the cost of paving one of the'public
streets in the city. There was a direct attack made upon the
validity of the assessment, founded upon an alleged lack of jurisdiction on the part of the common council. The action was

TULARE IRRIGATION DISTRICt v. SHEPARD.

25

Opinion of the Court.

maintained under a well recognized head of equity jurisdiction,
on the ground that the assessment, valid on its face, constituted
a cloud upon the plaintiff's title, which required evidence aliunde
to remove.
In addition to the strength of the position of the plaintiff in
the action as a bonafide purchaser and holder of the bonds, the
position of the defendants merits due consideration. Regarding the individual defendants, it is scarcely possible to believe
that they were not aware of the proceedings above recited, taken
to organize the corporation, and thereafter to issue its bonds,
even though it should be admitted that the published notice was
not legally sufficient to comply with the statute. They we:e
the owners of land within the proposed district. The proceedings were all of a public nature, and two public elections were
held within the district before the bonds were issued. Of these
facts, already detailed, we say it is impossible to believe that the
individual defendants did not have knowledge at the time of
their occurrence, and yet they took no action to prevent the issuing of the bonds or to call in question by the slightest hint
the validity of the organization of the district as a corporation.
On the contrary, they entirely acquiesced in all the proceedings
leading up to their issue, in obtaining the moneys therefrom, in
the expenditure thereof for the purpose for which the bonds
were issued, and in paying during several years the assessments
made upon the lands within the district for the purpose of paying the interest on the bonds which had been issued. After all
this had been done, we can properly use the language found in
the opinion in Bissell v. City of effesonville, 24 How. supra,
at page 299 "It was then too late to call in question the fact
determined by the common council, and afortioriit is too late
to raise that question in a case like the present, where it is shown
that the plaintiffs are innocent holders for value."
Assuming the insufficiency of the notice of the intended presentation of the petition to the board of supervisors, the defendant landowners could have applied to the attorney general for
the commencement of an action in the nature of a quo warranto,
to raise and decide the questions, after the board had decided
the organization was duly formed. Or they could have them-

O0TOBErI TERMK, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

selves commenced an action to restrain the proposed issue of
bonds on the ground there was no valid corporation, and therefore no valid body to issue them. Their interest as landowners
in the district would be sufficient to permit them to maintain
such action. On the contrary, they did nothing, and in view
of all the facts above detailed, and giving due effect to the provisions of the statute referred to and the determination of the
supervisors, together with the recitals in the bonds, it is clear
to us that they waived their right to thereafter object on the
ground stated, as against a bona fide holder of the bonds for
value. As to the defendant corporation, it seems so clear that
it cannot be heard to set up the invalidity of the bonds on the
ground that it was not legally incorporated, that we do not think
it necessary to further discuss the question. Taylor on Corporations, 4th ed. sec. 146, and cases cited in note.
We have given no weight to the two judgments taken under
the confirmation act of the California legislature, the first of
which was entered before the bonds were issued, and confirmed
the validity of the organization while the second was entered
years after the bonds were issued, and refused to confirm the
organization. In the view we take of this case it is unnecessary, and it is therefore needless for us to here discuss or determine the question of the effect which ought to be given them
under other circumstances. The plaintiff below occupies an unassailable position upon the facts of the case as a boncafde purchaser, without reference to either judgment.
We are of opinion there is no error in the record, and the
judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

