NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Statement of the Case.

salaries that which they contend was intended by the act of
March 3, 1899. It is not a case in which the judicial decision
must necessarily be a finality, but one in which there is full
power on the part of Congress to correct any mistake which
may have been made.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is
Afflmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY

took no part in the decision of this case.

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 491. Argued February 25, 26, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.
The time at which a party appeals to a court of equity for relief affects
largely the character of the relief which will be granted.
A failure to pursue statutory remedies is not always fatal to the rights of
a party in possession, and if full and adequate compensation is made
to the plaintiff, sometimes the possession of the defendant will not be
disturbed.
A court of equity may take possession and finally end a controversy like
the present by securing the payment of adequate compensation in lieu of
a cessation of the trespass.

THIS was a suit commenced in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York by the appellees,
as plaintiffs, for an injunction, restraining the city of New York
from maintaining a dam on the West Branch of Byram River
and diverting the waters thereof from their natural flow through
the farms of plaintiffs.
The facts are these: Byram River is a non-navigable stream
of fresh water flowing into Long Island Sound. Tracing its
source up stream from the Sound, for a short distance it forms
the boundary between New York and Connecticut, then deflects to the east, and for some five or six miles is within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

State of Connecticut. It there divides into two branches, the
east branch being entirely within the limits of that State. The
west branch, which is the longer of the two, extends into the
State of New York. A few hundred feet from the state line
the city of New York, under legislative sanction, commenced
the construction of a dam, with a view of appropriating part
or all of the waters of this west branch and using the same for
the supply of the city. The watershed of this west branch
above the dam, the territory from which the water sought to
be appropriated is all drawn, is wholly within the limits of the
State of New York. The plaintiffs own farms situated on
Byram River in Connecticut, below the junction of the two
branches. In their bill they alleged, among other things:
"Fourth. Your orators further aver that the defendant began about two years ago the building of a dam across the said
West Branch of said Byram River, about five hundred feet
north of the Connecticut line, and is now building said dam
and it is now near completion, and your orators are informed
and believe that the said defendant intends to divert or cause
to be diverted the water of said West Branch or some of it
from the natural channel thereof, and intends to divert or cause
the same to be diverted from flowing through its natural channel into and through the State of Connecticut, and by, through
and over land owned by your orators.
"Fifth. Your orators further aver that they as riparian
owners of land in the State of Connecticut, on said Byram
River or on the West Branch thereof, are each of them accustomed to use the water of said river, . . . and that the flow
of said river would be materially lessened by the diversion of the
water of the said West Branch or any part thereof, and that
they, your orators, and each of them, would be damaged in the
sum of twenty-four hundred dollars ($2400) and more."
The answer of the city admitted the building of the dam, although averring that it was not near completion, and would
not prevent the natural flow of the West Branch for at least a
year; admitted its intention to appropriate some or all of the
water; alleged that such appropriation would cause little or no
injury or damage to the plaintiffs, and denied on information

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Statement of the Case.

and belief that the premises of either would be damaged in the
sum of twenty-four hundred dollars; averred that the building
of the dam was of great and permanent benefit to the citizens
and residents of New York, and that it was and always had
been able and willing to pay any damages that the complainants
might suffer from being deprived of the natural flow of the
water. Testimony was taken and the case submitted to the
court upon pleadings and proofs. That the dam as completed,
and it was completed when the testimony was taken, would
work a diversion of a considerable portion of the water in its
natural flow, and that the property of plaintiffs was damaged
by such diversion, was shown by the testimony and found by
the court, although whether such damage amounted to more
than twenty-four hundred dollars each was perhaps not established by the testimony, and certainly was not found by the
court. The cost of the dam proper was about $15,000, though
the city bad expended for land and damages several hundred
thousand dollars. It also appeared that several thousand people in the city of New York were dependent upon this water
supply. The Circuit Court, after finding the fact of damage,
held that a court of equity had no power to ascertain and order
the payment of damages, but that it might delay the issue of an
injunction so as to give the parties an opportunity to agree in
respect to the amount of compensation, and in an opinion, filed
on June 27, 1900, ruled that a decree would be entered on November 1, 1900, if the parties had not come to an agreement.
Thereafter, no agreement having been made, a decree was entered as follows:
"That the complainants in this suit and each of them are entitled to the injunction order of this court restraining the defendant, its successors and assigns, their and its officers, agents and
employAs, each, all and any of them, from diverting the water or
any part of the water of the West Branch of the Byram River
or any part of the water of the Byram River, or in preventing
in any way said water or any part thereof at any time from
flowing through its natural channel, before, at and below the
junction of the two branches of said river; and
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the defend-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

ant, its successors and assigns, their and its officers, agents and
employ~s, each, any and all of them, be and they and each of
them are hereby perpetually enjoined from diverting the water
or any part of the water of the West Branch of the Byram IRiver,
or any part of the water of the Byram River, or in preventing
in any way said water or any part thereof at any time from flowing through its natural channel, before, at and below the junction
of the two branches of said river."
On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit this decree was, on October 30, 1901, affirmed by a divided court. Thereupon the case was brought here by certiorari. 183 U. S. 700.
_lD. George L. .Rives for New York. Mr. George L. Sterling
was on his brief.
Mr. Charles C. Xars]hall for Pine.
was on his brief.

_i3r. Stehian G. Williams

BREWER, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
M'tR. JUSTIOE

Many interesting questions are involved in this case, but we
think it unnecessary for the present at least to decide more than
one. We assmne, without deciding, that, as found by the Circuit Court, the plaintiffs will suffer substantial damage by the
proposed diversion of the water of the West Branch. Also,
without deciding, we assume that, although the West Branch
above the dam and all the sources of supply of water to that
branch are within the limits of the State of New York, it has
no power to appropriate such water or prevent its natural flow
through its accustomed channel into the State of Connecticut;
that the plaintiffs have a legal right to the natural flow of the
water through their farms in the State of Connecticut and cannot be deprived of that right by and for the benefit of the city
of New York by any legal proceedings either in Connecticut
or New York; and that a court of equity, at the instance of
the plaintiffs, at the inception and before any action had been

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Opinion of the Court.

taken by the city of New York, would have restrained all interference with such natural flow of the water.
Notwithstanding these assumptions we are of opinion that
the decree ought not to stand, and for these reasons: This is
not a case between two individuals in which is involved simply
the pecuniary interests of the respective parties. On the one
side are two individuals claiming that their property rights are.
infringed-rights which can be measured in money, and that
not a large sum; on the other, a municipality undertaking a
large work with a view of supplying many of its citizens with
one of the necessities of life. According to the averments in
the bill the city had been engaged in this work for two years
and had nearly completed the dam. While the near completion is denied in the answer there is no denial of the time during which the city had been engaged in the work, and it stands
as an admitted fact that for two years prior to the commencement of this suit the work had been under way. It is true the
testimony discloses that the plaintiffs and the city had been trying to agree upon the amount of compensation, but that shows
that the plaintiffs were seeking compensation for the injuries
they would sustain, and were not insisting upon their alleged
right to an abandonment of the work. It is one thing to state
a right and proffer a waiver thereof for compensation and an
entirely different thing to state the same right and demand that
it should be respected. In the latter case the defendant acts
at his peril. In the former he may well assume that payment
of a just compensation will be accepted in lieu of the right. In
the latter the plaintiff holds out the single question of the validity and extent of the right; in the former be presents the right
as the foundation of a claim for compensation, and his threat
to enforce the right if compensation is not made is simply a club
to compel payment of the sum be deems the measure of his
damages. Further, the testimony shows that the city was settling with other parties similarly situated, and paying out large
sums of money for the damages such parties would sustain. So,
it is not strange that the city acted on the assumption that the
only matter to be determined was the amouut of the compensation.
VOL. cLXXXV--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of thee Court.

If the plaintiffs had intended to insist upon the strict legal
rights (which for the purposes of this case we assume they possessed), they should have commenced at once, and before the
city had gone to expense, to restrain any work by it. It would
be inequitable to permit them to carry on negotiations with a
view to compensation until the city had gone to such great expense, and then, failing to agree upon the compensation, fall
back upon the alleged absolute right to prevent the work. If
they had intended to rest upon such right and had commenced
proceedings at once, the city might have concluded to abandon
the proposed undertaking and seek its water supplies in some
other direction. If this injunction is permitted to stand the
city must pay whatever the plaintiffs see fit to demand, however extortionate that demand may be, or else abandon the
work and lose the money it has expended. While we do not
mean to intimate that the plaintiffs would make an extortionate demand, we do hold that equity will not place them in a
position where they can enforce one.
The time at which parties invoke the aid of a court of equity
is often a significant factor in determining the extent of their
-igilantibus non dormientibus cequilas subvenit is a
rights.
maxim of equity. As said by Pomeroy, in his work on Equity
Jurisprudence, vol. 1, sec. 418, the principle embodied in this
maxim "operates throughout the entire remedial portion of
equity jurisprudence, but rather as furnishing a most important
rule controlling and restraining the courts in the administration of all kinds of relief, than as being the source of any particular and distinctive doctrines of the jurisprudence.
The principle thus used as a practical rule controlling and restricting the award of reliefs is designed to promote diligence
on the part of suitors."
In Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown Ch. 639, note, Lord Camden
said: "A court of equity, which is never active in relief against
conscience or public convenience, has always refused its aid
to stale demands, where the party has slept upon his rights,
and acquiesced for a great length of time. Nothing can call
forth this court into activity but conscience, good faith and
?,easonable diligence."

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Opinion of the Court.

It was said by Circuit Judge Shipman, in deciding this case:
"If a court of equity has power in any case by decree to
ascertain and order the payment of damages by decree of injunction in the alternative, a court of equity will not exercise
such power where the defendant has committed a permanent
injury without authority of law and without pretense of right
to take and retain the property."
However true that proposition may be generally when invoked at the inception and before any work has been done, we
think it not applicable when the plaintiffs have waited until the
work has been progressing for two years and the defendant has
expended a large sum of money thereon. As declared by Lord
Camden, in the quotation just made, a court of equity is never
active in relief against public convenience.
It may be not amiss to notice some of the cases in which the
effect of time upon a suit in equity has been the subject of discussion. In Gallihor v. Cadwell, 145 U. S. 368, was considered the general subject of laches. Many authorities were
cited and reviewed, and it was said (p. 373):
"But it is unnecessary to multiply cases. They all proceed
upon the theory that laches is not like limitation, a mere matter of time; but principally a question of the inequity of permitting the claim to be enforced-an inequity founded upon
some change in the condition or relations of the property or
the parties."
In Roberts v. NYorthern Pacifc Railroad,158 U. S. 1, it appeared that Douglas County, Wisconsin, had agreed with the
Northern Pacific Railroad Company to deed to it certain lands,
held by the county under tax titles, in consideration of the construction by the company of its railroad through the county.
The company constructed the road and the county made the
deed. Thereafter the validity of such deed was questioned,
and the county made a conveyance of the lands to Roberts et
al., whereupon the railroad company brought suit against them
to quiet its title. The line of the road was constructed through
some of these lands, and Mr. Justice Shiras, speaking for the
court, observed (pp. 9, 10, 11):
"So far as those portions of the lands, described in the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of complaint, consist of parcels held and used by the railway
company for the necessary and useful purposes of their road
as a public highway, it is obvious that~the title and possession
thereof cannot be successfully assailed by the appellants. The
latter became purchasers long after the railroad company had
entered into visible and notorious possession of these portions
of the lands and had constructed the roads, wharves and other
improvements called for by their contract with the county.
" It is well settled that where a railroad company, having
the power of eminent domain, has entered into actual possession of land necessary for its corporate purposes, whether with
or without the consent of the owner of such lands, a subsequent
vendee of the latter takes the land subject to the burthen of the
railroad, and the right to payment from the railroad company,
if it entered by virtue of an agreement to pay, or to damages,
if the entry was unauthorized, belongs to the owner at the time
the railroad company took possession. . . . So, too, it has
been frequently held that if a landowner, knowing that a railroad company has entered upon his land, and is engaged in constructing its road without having complied with the statute
requiring either payment by agreement or proceedings to condemn, remains inactive and permits them to go on and expend
large sums in the work, he will be estopped from maintaining
either trespass or ejectment for the entry, and will beregarded
as having acquiesced therein, and be restricted to a suit for
damages. Lexington & Ohio Railroad v. Ormhby, 7 Dana,
276 ; Harlow v. .Marquette&c. Railroad, 11 Mich. 336; Cairo
& Fulton Railroadv. Turner, 31 Ark. 494; Pettibone v. La
Crosse & Ifilwaukcee Railroad, 14 Wis. 443 ; Chicago d Alton.
Railroad v. Goodwin, 111 Il.273."
Again, Penn Mutual Life Insuraiwe Co. v. Austin, 168 U. S.
685, was a suit to perpetually restrain the city of Austin from
completing a system of waterworks, and from levying on the
property of the Austin Water, Light and Power Company any
taxes to pay therefor, and it was held that by reason of the
delay in pressing their claim, the plaintiffs were not entitled to
the relief, and many authorities were cited in the opinion in
support thereof.

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Opinion of the Court.

In AYorthern Paiflc Railroad Co. v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260,
was presented a question similar to that in Roberts v. Northern
Pacific Railroad, supra,and the same conclusion was reached.
In the course of the opinion, Provolt v. Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Railroad,57 Missouri, 256, 264, was cited. That was
a case in which the conduct of a landowner in standing by while
a railroad company constructed its road precluded him from
recovering physical possession of the land covered thereby, and
this quotation was made from the opinion of that court:
"If, from negotiation in regard to the price of the land, or
for any other reason, there is just ground of inference that the
works have been constructed with the express or implied assent
of the landowner, it would seem wholly at variance with the
expectations of the parties and the reason of the case, that the
landowner should retain the right to enter upon the land, or
to maintain ejectment. There are other effective and sufficient
remedies. A court of equity would unquestionably interfere,
if necessary, and place the road in the hands of a receiver until
the damages were paid from the earnings. 2 Redf. Am.
iRailw. Cas. 2d ed. 353. But the only question we are called
upon to decide is whether under all the facts and circumstances of this case ejectment will lie, and we think it will
not."
This question was also considered in Charleston Railway Co.
v. Hughes, 105 Georgia, 1, and in the course of the opinion on
page 15 are these pertinent observations by Mr. Justice Cobb:
"When a railroad company, without warrant or authority,
enters upon the land of another, it is as a general rule no less a
trespasser than any other person who is guilty of an act of a
similar nature. If, however, a railroad company enters upon
the land with the consent of the owner, or under license from
him, and the property thus taken possession of becomes such a
necessary component part of its railroad that to surrender its
possession would interfere seriously with the interests of the
company, the landowner, although entitled to compensation
for his property, might by his conduct in allowing the entry
upon his land and permitting the company to so use it as that
it could not be abandoned without great prejudice to its rights,

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

estop himself from asserting against the company the legal
title to the property by an action of ejectment. The propositions above stated are simply the application of familiar principles of law which govern in all transactions of the character
above referred to, whether the controversy be between natural
persons alone, or between such persons and corporations, and
whether the corporation be public or private. A railroad corporation, being one charged by the law with the performance
of certain duties to the public, is allowed, under some circumstances, to set up rights connected with the land over which it
operates its line or railway, of which an individual or an ordinary private corporation would not generally be allowed to
avail itself. Controversies in reference to possession of land,
where the rights of individuals only are involved, are purely
matters of private concern. Controversies in which a corporation charged with the duties incumbent upon carriers of passengers, freight and mails, in which an effort is made by private individuals or others to take away from such corporation
a part of the property in its possession, which is absolutely essential to its complete performance of the public duties required of it, become matters of more than private concern, and
in which the public is deeply and seriously interested. For
this reason it has become settled law that the harsh remedies
which would be allowed to one individual against another in
reference to the possession of land will not be allowed to one
who is seeking to recover such property from a railroad company, when exact justice can be done to such owner by giving
him remedies which are less severe in their nature, and by
which he would secure substantially the same rights, thereby
saving to the public the right to require a performance of the
public duties incumbent upon the corporation whose property
is the subject matter of the controversy. That a railroad corporation has a right to deprive a person of his property for its
uses by doing acts which in an individual would be dealt with
as a trespass is not contended for; but when a railroad company enters upon land and constructs its road without lawful
authority, and the landowner acquiesces in the wrongful act
and the consequent appropriation of the property to a great

NEW YORK CiTY v. PiN9.
Opinion of the Court.

public use until the same has become a necessary component
part of the property required by the railroad to perform its
public duties, such landowner will be held to have waived his
right to retake the property, and will be remitted to such other
remedies for the wrong done him as will not interfere with
the rights of the public to have the railroad maintained and operated."
See also Atlanta, Kooxville & Northern Railway Company
v. Barker, 105 Georgia, 534; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
Railroad Company v. Englehart, 57 Neb. 444.
From these authorities it is apparent that the time at which
a party appeals to a court of equity for relief affects largely the
character of the relief which will be granted. If one, aware
of the situation, believes he has certain legal rights, and desires
to insist upon them, he should do so promptly. If by his declarations or conduct he leads the other party to believe that he
does not propose to rest upon such rights but is willing to waive
them for a just compensation, and the other party proceeds to
great expense in the expectation that payment of a fair compensation will be accepted and the right waived-especially if
it is in respect to a matter which will largely affect the public
convenience and welfare-a court of equity may properly refuse
to enforce those rights, and, in the absence of an agreement for
compensation, compel him to submit the determination of the
amount thereof to an impartial tribunal.
These views do not justify the conclusion that a court of
equity assumes a general right to ignore or supersede statutory
provisions for the ascertainment of the amount of compensation
in cases of condemnation. They simply mean that a failure to
pursue statutory remedies is not always fatal to the rights of a
party in possession, and that sometimes if full and adequate
compensation is made to the plaintiff the possession of the defendant will not be disturbed.
It is true the cases cited were mainly those of actual physical
possession by railroad companids of real estate belonging to
other parties, but the same doctrine applies when there is only
an invasion of some easement or other incorporeal right, and its
preservation can alone be secured in a court of equity. The

OCTOBER TERM. 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

action of the court does not depend upon the character of the
property or right involved but upon the conduct of the plaintiff
in respect to his claim. Pappenheim v. 3fetropolitan Elevated
Railway Co., 128 N. Y. 436, was a suit brought by the owner of
premises on Second avenue, in Xew York city, to restrain the
defendants from operating their elevated railway in front of
plaintiff's premises. The trial court found the amount of the
damage to the premises, and provided by its decree that an injunction should not issue in case the defendants paid the amount
of the damage upon the execution by plaintiff of a deed conveying her interest in the easement taken. This decree was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals, and in the opinion by 'Mr.
Justice Peckham, then a member of that court, it was said,
after referring to the rule controlling actions at law:
'"But the owner may resort to equity for the purpose of enjoining the continuance of the trespass, and to thus prevent a
multiplicity of actions at law to recover damages; and in such
an action the court may determine the amount of damage which
the owner would sustain if the trespass were permanently continued, and it may provide that, upon payment of that sun, the
plaintiff shall give a deed or convey the right to the defendant,
and it will refuse an injunction when the defendant is willing
to pay upon the receipt of a conveyance. The court does not
adjudge that the defendant shall pay such sum and that the
plaintiff shall so convey. It provides that, if the conveyance
is made and the money paid, no injunction shall issue. If defendant refuses to pay, the injunction issues." p. 444.
It is true in that. case the plaintiff sought in her petition the
very relief that was granted, and so the case is not authority
on the question of the effect of delay in asserting one's legal
rights, but it is authority for the proposition that a court of
equity may take full possession and finally end the controversy
by securing the payment of adequate compensation in lieu of a
cessation of the trespass. See, also, Jackson v. Stevenson, 156
Mass. 496, 502.
It is, however, urged that in all the cases referred to the one
party could have appropriated the property or right of the other
by condemnation proceedings, and that as he could have done

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Opinion of the Court.

so he should not be disturbed for lack of those proceedings, but
either given time to carry them through, or else in the pending
equitable suit have the compensation or damages estimated and
then, upon payment, be protected in his possession. In other
words, as he could have obtained the rightful possession by legal proceedings and payment, equity will do what the law could
have done, and on payment of the ascertained compensation or
damages affirm the possession. Whatever may be true of those
cases, we start in this with the assumption that there was no
power in the city of New York, by any proceedings in the
States of New York or Connecticut, to acquire the right of appropriating this water and thus depriving the plaintiffs of its
continued flow. It was suggested in the Pappenheim case,
supra, that "in cases where the owner wishes to actually stop
the further trespass, and where the defendant has no legal right
to acquire the property, such condition would not be inserted,
and an injunction would issue upon the right of the owner being
determined. fenderson v. CentralRailroadCo., 78 N. Y. 423."
But the ruling of this court has been to the contrary, at least
in cases where there has been delay on the part of the plaintiff
in commencing suit. In Osborne v. Mtissoutri Pacj&fr Railway
Company, 14'7 U. S. 248, the plaintiff, owning lots on Gratiot
street, in St. Louis, filed a bill in the United States Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, to restrain the defendants from constructing a steam railroad along such street.
The fee of the street was in the public, but it was alleged that
the construction and operation of the railroad would work a
damage to the property of the plaintiff's, and the facts tending
to show such damage were set forth. It appeared that the road
had been constructed before the bill was filed. Section 21 of
article 2 of the Missouri constitution of 1875 reads "that private property shall not be taken, or damaged, for public use
without just compensation." The statutes of Missouri provided
means for condemning a right of way and assessing the value
of property taken, but contained no provision for assessing the
damages to property not taken, so that neither the railroad
company nor the plaintiff could at the time have taken any
legal proceedings for ascertaining the amount of the damage

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

to plaintiff's property by the construction of the railroad. The
Circuit Court, finding that the plaintiff's property was damaged,
and assuming that the damages came within the protecting
clause of the constitution, held that nevertheless the plaintiff
was not entitled to an injunction, saying (35 Fed. Rep. 84, 85):
"The question at issue is whether a complainant, who claims
damages resulting incidentally to his property from the laying
of a railroad track in a public street under a legislative and
municipal license, can wait until the work is done, and then enjoin its operation, although none of his property is actually
taken, or whether he should in such case be left to his remedy
at law for the damage inflicted ? Unless the wrongdoer is insolvent, or unless some other cause exists to render the legal
remedy of no avail, it appears to me that on general principles
he should be left to his legal remedy, and it was so held in the
cases first above cited. The rule does not deprive the complainant of the protection intended to be afforded by the constitution, nor does it work any hardship. It simply requires
the complainant to be diligent in applying for such relief as
equity may afford."
That decision was affirmed by this court, and in the opinion
it was said (p. 259):
"But where there is no direct taking of the estate itself, in
whole or in part, and the injury complained of is the inflicting
of damage in respect to the complete enjoyment thereof, a
court of equity must be satisfied that the threatened damage
is substantial and the remedy at law in fact inadequate before
restraint will be laid upon the progress of a public work."
Reference was made in the opinion to .f2oElroy v. Kansas
City, 21 Fed. Rep. 257, a case in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Missouri, in which
the same constitutional provision was in question, and an application made to restrain the grading of a street in front of
the complainant's lot, and in which, as stated, "it was ruled
that, if the injury which the complainant would sustain from
the act sought to be enjoined could be fully and easily compensated, at law, while, on the other hand, the defendant would
suffer great damage, and especially if the public would suffer

NEW YORK CITY v. PINE.
Opinion of the Court.

large inconvenience if the contemplated act were restrained,
the injunction should be refused, and the complainant be remitted to his action for damages. If the defendant had an
ultimate right to do the act sought to be restrained, but only
upon some condition precedent, and compliance with the condition was within the power of the defendant, the injunction
would almost universally be granted until the condition was
complied with; but if the means of complying with the condition were not at defendant's command, then the court would
adjust its order so as to give complainant the substantial benefit of the condition, while not restraining defendant from the
exercise of its ultimate rights."
These propositions do not, as counsel for appellees suggest,
necessitate some legislation like the act of Parliament known as
Lord Cairn's act, 21 and 22 Victoria, June 28, 1858, chap. 2',
by which it was provided that "in all cases in which the Court
of Chancery has jurisdiction to entertain an application for an
injunction against a breach of any covenant, contract or agreement or against the commission or continuance of any wrongful act or for the specific performance of any covenant, contract
or agreement it shall be lawful for the same court, if it shall
think fit, to award damages to the party injured either in addition to or in substitution for such injunction or specific performance, and such damages may be assessed in such manner
as the court shall direct."
Nor do they justify the conclusion that under their application one man is at liberty to wrong another upon payment of
damages. There is no thought of creating a new rule or of
substituting a judicial opinion for an act of Congress. All that
can be fairly said in reference to them is that they are an application of the ancient maxim that he who seeks equity must
do equity. Limiting them, as we have limited them in the
present case, to conditions which exist after defendant has proceeded in the completion of its proposed work and has expended
a large sum of money therein, they can never be considered as
inviting a party to do a wrong with the expectation of escaping
every penalty save a pecuniary one.
On that ground alone, and without deciding whether plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

tiffs have a legal right to recover damages, the decrees of the
Circuit Court of Appeals and the Circuit Court will be reversed
and the case remanded to the latter court, with instructions to
set aside its decree and to enter one providing for an ascertainment, in the way courts of equity are accustomed to proceed, of
the damages, if any, which the plaintiffs will suffer by the construction of the dam and the appriopriation of the water, and for
which the defendant is legally responsible, a proposition upon
which we express no opinion, and fixing a time within which
the defendant will be required to pay such sum, and that upon
the failure to make such payment an injunction will issue as
prayed for; and, on the other band, that upon payment a decree will be entered in favor of the defendant. If the plaintiffs
shall prefer to have their damages assessed by a jury, leave may
be given to dismiss the bill without prejudice to an action at law.
Reversed.
MR. JusrTio GRAY did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

FILHIOL v. MAURICE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 50. Argued 'March 5, 6, 1902.-Decided April 7, 1902.

In an action of ejectment against private individuals, the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court cannot be maintained on the ground that by averments
that plaintiffs were ousted in violation of the treaty of October 21, 1803,
and of the Fifth Amendment, the provisions of which it was the duty
of the Federal Government to observe, it appeared that the case arose
under the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the United States.

THIS was an action of ejectment brought by Ilippolite Filhiol
and others, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Arkansas, against Charles E. Maurice,
Charles G. Convers and William G. 1Maurice, for the recovery
of a parcel of land in the city of Hot Springs, Garland County,
Arkansas, on the permanent reservation at Hot Springs, de-

