OCTOBER TERAiM, 1901.
Statement of the Case.

TRAVELLERS' INSURANCE COMPANY v. CONNECTICUT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ERRORS OF THE STATE OF CONNECTICUT.
No. 219. Argued April 14, 15, 1902.-Decided MIay 5, 1902.

The legislation of the State of Connecticut, in respect to the taxation of
shares of stock in a local corporation, held by non-residents, which is set
forth in the statement of facts, is not in conflict with paragraph 1 of
section 2 of article IV of the Federal Constitution, or the Fourteenth
Amendment to that Constitution.
SECTION 2 of chap. 153 of the Public Acts of Connecticut,
passed in 189'(, reads as follows:
"The cashier or secretary of each corporation whose stock is
liable to taxation, and not otherwise taxed by the provisions, of
this title, shall, on the first day of October, annually, or within
ten days thereafter, deliver to the comptroller as worn list of
all its stockholders residing without this State on said day, and
the number and market value of the shares of stock therein
then belonging to each; and shall on or before the twentieth
day of October, annually, pay to the State one and one half
per centum of such value; and if any such cashier or secretary
shall neglect to comply with the provisions of this section he
shall forfeit to the State one hundred dollars, in addition to
said one and one half per centum so required to be paid."
This method of assessment and taxation of non-resident stockholders in insurance corporations has been in force in Connecticut since 1866, although at first the rate of tax was only one
per cent. Public Acts, 1866, chap. 29.
By section 1 of chap. 50 of the Public Acts of 1899, it is provided:
"Section 1923 of the General Statutes is hereby amended to
read as follows: When not otherwise provided in its charter,
the stock of every corporation shall be personal property, and
be transferred only on its books, in such form as the directors

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. CONNECTICUT.
Statement of the Case.

shall prescribe; and such corporation shall at all times have a
lien upon all the stock owned by any person therein, for all
debts due to it from him; and any corporation desiring to enforce such lien may give notice to such stockholder, his executor or administrator, and if there be none, his heir-at-law, that
unless he shall pay his indebtedness to said corporation within
three months it will sell said stock; and such corporation may
prescribe by its by-laws the manner of giving notice required
by this section, but the notice of sale shall in no case be given
until the liability has become fixed."
The original section in the General Statutes, enacted in 1888,
is precisely the same as the first half of the amended section,
and secured to the corporation a lien upon the stock for debts
due to it by the stockholder, the amendment consisting in the
addition of the last half, which provides the method of enforc-"
ing such lien.
Section 3836 of the General Statutes, as amended by chap. 63
of the Public Acts of 1889, reads:
"SEc. 3836. Shares of the capital stock of any bank, national
banking association, trust, insurance, turnpike, bridge or plank
road company, owned by any resident of this State, shall be
set in his list at its market value in the town in which he may
reside; but so much of the capital of any such company as may
be invested in real estate, on which it is assessed and pays a
tax, shall be deducted from the market value of its stock, in its
returns to the assessors."
This action was commenced by the State of Connecticut to
recover of the Travellers' Insurance Company, under the first
of the statutes quoted, taxes due for the year 1898, from nonresident stockholders. The defendant answered, alleging that
its capital stock consisted of 10,000 shares, of which 8201 were
owned by residents and 1799 by non-residents of the State;
that is was the owner of a large amount of real estate on which
it had been assessed and had paid a tax, and adding these averments:
"7. The market value of the stock of the defendant company
on the 1st day of October, 1898, was $250 per share.
"8. All of the said resident owners of said stock were as-

OCTOBER TERM£, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

sessed upon the stock owned by them respectively on the first
day of October, 1898, at an assessed valuation equal to the said
market value of said stock less a large deduction therefrom by
reason of the company's said investments in real estate.
"9. The amount per share sought to be collected from the
defendant in this action as a tax upon the stock owned by said
non-resident shareholders is far in excess of the amount per
share paid and required to be paid as a tax by the several resident shareholders aforesaid on the stock owned by them on
the said 1st day of October, 1898."
A demurrer to this answer was sustained and judgment entered for the State, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of the State, '3 Conn. 255, and thereupon the case was brought
here on error.

.r.

William R. -Matson and .'.
plaintiff in error.

Lucius F. Robinson for

.Mr. Cham'les Phe~ps for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question presented for our consideration is whether
this legislation of the State of Connecticut in respect to the
taxation of the shares of stock in a local corporation held by
non-residents is in conflict with paragraph 1 of section 2 of article IV of the Federal Constitution, or the Fourteenth Amendment thereto. It is alleged that there is such discrimination
between resident and non-resident stockholders as works a
denial of the equal protection of the laws, and to the prejudice
of citizens of other States. The stock of the non-resident stockholder is assessed at its market value without any deduction on
account of real estate held by the corporation. The stock of
the resident stockholder is assessed at its market value, less the
proportionate value of all real estate held by the corporation
upon which it has already paid a tax. As thus stated, there
would appear to be a wrongful discrimination, and that the
non-resident stockholder was subjected to a larger burden of

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v.' CONNECTICUT.

Opinion of the Court.
taxation than the resident stockholder, and this not as a result
of the action of any mere ministerial officers in making assessments, but by reason of the direct command of the statute to
include the real estate in the valuation in the one case and to
exclude it in the other.
But this apparent discrimination against the non-resident
disappears when the system of taxation prevailing in Connecticut is considered. By that system the non-resident stockholder
pays no local taxes. He simply pays a state tax, contributes
so much to the general expenses of the State. While, on the
other hand, the resident stockholder pays no tax to the State,
but only to the municipality in which he resides. In other
words, the State imposes no direct taxes for its benefit upon
the property belonging to residents, but collects its entire revenue from corporations, licenses, etc. The rate of state tax
upon the non-resident stockholder is fixed, fifteen mills on a
dollar, applying equally to all, while the rate of local taxation
varies in the several cities and towns according to the judgment
of their local authorities as to the amount necessary to be raised
for carrying on the municipal government. Obviously the varying difference in the rate of the tax upon the resident and
the non-resident stockholders does not invalidate the legislation.
How then can it be that a difference in the basis of assessment
is such an unjust discrimination as necessarily vitiates the tax
upon the non-resident? The resident stockholder does not pay
the fifteen mills to the State which is demanded of the non-resident, and the non-resident stockholder does not pay to any locality the sum, greater or less than fifteen mills, which may be
imposed by the authorities of that locality. In respect to this
the Supreme Court, in its opinion, said (p. 281):
"It is unnecessary to consider whether, or under what circumstances, the limitations imposed by a State in respect to the
mutual relations of members of its corporations in the matter
of taxation may transform legislation for that purpose into a
denial of rights secured to citizens of other States; it is enough
for present purposes that a mere inequality in the stress of taxation cannot produce that effect.
"But the claim that in this case the inequality operates

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

against non-residents or citizens of other States as a class is unfounded. While the admissions of the demurrer assume the
tax in respect to the defendant for this year to bear more heavily on non-residents than on residents, the general effect of the
law is matter of common knowledge. The average rate of taxation for municipal purposes for the 168 towns approximates
fifteen mills, which is the rate for the special tax imposed in
respect to non-resident shares; but the average rate for municipal taxation in the ten larger towns (representing much more
than half the grand list of the State) is about twenty-one mills.
The clear purpose of the legislature in fixing the mode of valuation for the property subject to a single rate for special
taxation and the valuation for the property subject to widely
varying rates for municipal taxation, was to approximate a general equality in the burden that should fall on the two classes
of property; and it well may be that the rule objected to in
respect to the valuation of the interests of resident shareholders
in corporations investing in taxable land still leaves, as a whole,
a lighter burden of contribution resting upon non-resident shareholders."
In other words, the State, dealing with the question of taxation of the shares of stock in a local corporation, found two
classes; one, shares held by residents, and the other, those held
by non-residents. It was believed that a resident in a city or
town, enjoying all the benefits of local government, should be
taxed for the expenses of that government upon all the property he possessed, whether that property consisted in part or in
whole of shares of stock. On the other hand, the non-resident,
enjoying little or none of the benefits of local government, was
exempted from taxation on account of the expenses of such
local government. At the same time it was not right that he
should escape all contribution to the support of the State which
created and protected the corporation and the property of all
its stockholders, and so a tax was cast upon the non-resident
stockholder for the expenses of the State. This, with kindred
taxes, has been found sufficient to pay the running expenses of
the state government. The resident is not called upon to pay
any of the expenses of the State, but only to bear his propor-

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

tional share of those of the municipality. The non-resident is
called upon to pay no share of the expenses of the municipality,
but only to contribute to the support of the State.
The legislature, with these inequalities before it, aimed, as
appears from the opinion of the Supreme Court, to apportion
fairly the burden of taxes between the resident and the nonresident stockholder, and the mere fact that in a given year the
actual workings of the system may result in a larger burden on
the non-resident was properly held not to vitiate the system,
for a different result might obtain in a succeeding year, the results varying with the calls made in the different localities for
local expenses. If it be said that equality would be secured by
imposing upon the resident stockholder a uniform tax for local
purposes of fifteen mills, without any reduction on account of
real estate held by the corporation, a gross inequality might
result in many towns between the resident stockholder and
other taxpayers of that locality, in that they might be called
upon to pay much more than he. On the other hand, if it be
contended that inequality might be avoided by holding the situs
of non-resident stockholders to be that of the city in which the
corporation has its principal office, (in this case IHartford,) then
unjust discrimination between that city and other localities
would follow, in that to the one was given the total benefit of
property which in fact belonged to parties living outside of the
State. So, while there may result from year to year a variance
in the amount of the burden actually cast upon non-residents
as compared with that cast upon residents, yet it is also true
that a like inequality will exist between residents of different
localities in the State by reason of the different rates of taxation
in those localities. You cannot put one resident against one
non-resident stockholder and by a comparison of their different
burdens determine the validity of the legislation any more than
you can place a stockholder resident in one municipality over
against a stockholder resident in another municipality, and by
comparison of their different burdens determine the validity of
the tax law in respect to resident stockholders. It does not
seem possible to adjust, with unerring certainty, all the varying
burdens which grow out of the fact that some of the stock of
VOL. c.xxxv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

the various state corporations is held outside of the State and
some within the State, and the latter in separate municipalities
with different rates of taxation.
It may also be said that apparently equality would be more
certainly secured by making the asssesment in each case upon
the market value of the stock, diminished by the value of the
real estate upon which taxes have been paid. But here again
a difficulty is presented. Many of the taxable corporations
own no real estate, and much of the real estate which belongs to corporations who have investments therein is located
outside of the State. According to the returns made by this
particular corporation, out of a holding in real estate amounting in value to $1,778,662.05, upon which it had paid taxes,
that which was situated in Connecticut was valued at only
$137,965.81. Now, it may be true that as to the real estate
held outside of the State the title and possession of the corporation are protected not by Connecticut but by the State in which
such real estate is found. But can it be said that there was any
unjust discrimination between the different non-resident stockholders in the various corporations, or even between all the
non-resident and resident stockholders, when the State, ignoring this matter of real estate, and considering that the corporation as a state institution was protected in all its corporate rights
by the State, provided that non-resident stockholders should
pay upon the market value of their investments in the property
of that corporation ? In respect to this the Supreme Court of
Connecticut said (p. 280):
"This change as to the valuation of the property and franchise of a corporation owning taxable real estate, for the purposes of municipal taxation, may produce in some instances
more inequality, may be uncalled for or unwise (upon such considerations the action of the legislature is conclusive), but it
certainly does not transmute the legislation in question from
permissible taxation to a denial to citizens of other States of
that common right in the use and enjoyment of property secured to our own citizens. The plan of taxation remains the
same; after the change in valuation as before, it is simply a
mode of securing to towns for purposes of municipal taxation

TRAVELLERS' INS. CO. v. CONNECTICUT.
Opinion of the Court.

the benefit of that part of the corporate property represented
by shares owned by their inhabitants, and subjecting to state
taxation that part represented by shares owned by non-residents, and which cannot be thus subjected to municipal taxation. Here is no hidden purpose to attack the rights of citizens
of other States-no evidence that the underlying intention and
real substance of the legislation is to hinder citizens of other
States in acquiring and holding property. The alleged hindrance is confined to those who buy stock in corporations paying
taxes on real estate. Only a small number of the corporations
within the scope of the act own taxable real estate to any appreciable amount. Can it be said that the law regulating the
taxation of half a dozen different kinds of corporations is really
intended to hinder citizens of other States from owning stock
in the small number of these corporations that may from time
to time invest in taxable real estate; or, that the real substance
of the law changes from legitimate taxation to hostile and forbidden discrimination with each change of its investments by a
corporation ? Clearly the legislature is free from any sinister
motive in this legislation."
But further, the validity of this legislation does not depend
on the question whether the courts may see some other form of
assessment and taxation which apparently would result in greater
equality of burden. The courts are not authorized to substitute
their views for those of the legislature. We can only consider
the legislation that has been had, and determine whether or no
its necessary operation results in an unjust discrimination between the parties charged with its burdens. It is enough that
the State has secured a reasonably fair distribution of burdens,
and that no intentional discrimination has been made against
non-residents.
This court has frequently held that mere inequality in the
results of a state tax law is not sufficient to invalidate it. Thus,
in Tavpan v. .Xerclants'lNational Baank, 19 Wall. 490, 504, it

was said:
"Absolute equality in taxation can never be obtained. That
system is the best which comes the nearest to it. The same
rules cannot be applied to the listing and valuation of all kinds

OCTOBER TERMI, 1901.
Opinion of the Court.

of property. Railroads, banks, partnerships, manufacturing
associations, telegraph companies, and each one of the numerous other agencies of business which the inventions of the age
are constantly bringing into existence, require different machinery for the purposes of their taxation. The object should
be to place the burden so that it will bear as nearly as possible
equally upon all. For this purpose different systems adjusted
with reference to the valuation of different kinds of property
are adopted. The courts permit this."
Again, in State R.ailroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 612:
"Perfect equality and perfect uniformity of taxation as regards individuals or corporations, or the different classes of
property subject to taxation, is a dream unrealized. It may be
admitted that the system which most nearly attains this is the
best. But the most complete system which can be devised must,
when we consider the immense variety of subjects which it
necessarily embraces, be imperfect. And when we come to
its application to the property of all the citizens, and of those
who are not citizens, in all the localities of a large State like
Illinois, the application being made by men whose judgments
and opinions must vary as they are affected by all the circumstances brought to bear upon each individual, the result must
inevitably partake largely of the imperfection of human nature
and of the evidence on which human judgment is founded."
And in _ferclhaitd' Bank v. Pennsylvania, 167 U. S. 461,
464:
" This whole argument of a right under the Federal Constitution to challenge a tax law on the ground of inequality in the
burdens resulting from the operation of the law is put at rest
by the decision in Bell's Gap Railroad v. Pennsylvania, 134
U. S. 232."
For these reasons we are of opinion that the act challenged
cannot be held to conflict with either of the clauses of the Federal Constitution referred to, and the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Connecticut is
Affirmed.

MR. JusTIcE HRLAN did not hear the argument and took no
part in the decision of this case.

