NICHOLS, SHEPARD & 00. v. MARSH.
Syllabus.

January 24, 1889.

Mr.Edgington :

I send petition and agreement written by Dave Poston, who
left last night for New York. Ile will be in Washington in
three days, and said you would sign and I must forward to
him.
Respectfully,
January 24, 1889.

Col. C. WF. .Frazer:

DE _nSiR -On considering of this matter, I don't believe
I could sign this waiver of notice. The matter has now been
delayed so long that we could not get ready to try the case at
this term after printing the record. I would like to accommodate both you and Poston, but I am satisfied that I could not
secure the approval of my clients at this late day in the course
suggested.
Yours truly,

T. B. EDGINGTON .
Mr.A. B. Browne and -Mr. ). H. Poston for the motion.
No one opposing.
PER cuRiAi: On consideration of the motion for leave to
furnish fifteen copies of the record as already printed, and for
a remission of the clerk's fee for supervising the printing, it
is now here ordered by the court that, upon the appellants'
filing fifteen copies of the record as already printed, and
making payment of $100 as for cost of additional printing
required, that the balance of the estimated costs be remitted.

NICHOLS, SHEPARD
ORIGINAL MOTION

AND

COMPANY v. MARSH.

N A CASE" BROUGHT UP BY APPEAL.

No. 95. Submitted March 18, 1889.-

Decided April 1, 1889.

M. filed a bill in equity against S. for the infringement of letters patent. S.
answered and ified a cross-bill. The decree dismissed the original bill
VOL. Cxxxm-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
from which Al. appealed. Thereupon S. took an appeal in the cross suit
from rulings excluding evidence. In this court the clerk required S. to
pay one half the cost of printing the record. This court, after argument, affirmed the decree dismissing the original bill, and dismissed the
cross-appeal. 128 U. S. 605. Held, that S. was entitled to recover of M.
the amount so paid.

AFTER the entry of the decrees in ffarsh v. ficiwis and
Nichols v. irawrs/t, 128 U. S. 605, the following motion was
made, entitled in the two causes.
And now comes the said defendant, Nichols, Shepard & Co.,
by Charles F. Burton, their solicitor, and moves the court now
here, that they, the said Nichols, Shepard & Co., do recover
against the said Elon A. Marsh, Minard Lefever and James
Scott, as costs to be taxed in their favor, one half of the
amount required for printing the record and supervising the
printing of the record in said causes, in addition to the amount,
taxable and to be taxed in their favor, in the first above entitled cause.
This motion is based on the records in said causes and on
the affidavit of Charles F. Burton, hereto attached, and will
be brought on for hearing on M onday, the 25th day of February, at the opening of said court.
To R. A. PARKER, EsQ.,
SoUcitorfor Iarsh Lefeve, and Scott.

CHARLs F. BuRTo-,
Solicitorfor Nichol, Sheplwd & Co.
s
DisTRixr oF MionIG,
ss
County of Wayne,
Charles F. Burton, duly sworn, deposes and says, that he is
the solicitor for Nichols, Shepard & Co., in the above entitled
appeal and cross appeal, and that in response to a request from
the clerk of this court, he sent to said clerk, on the 16th day
of November, 1887, the sum of two hundred and seventy-five
dollars, which the said clerk notified him was the amount of
money required to defray the portion of the expense properly
ST.TE AND

EAsTpR

