VEACH 'v. RICE.
Syllabus.

the notes when due, (if he did not elect to keep the notes,) to
retake the cattle and sell them; but if there was no such
agreement, and if the notes were given and accepted as absolute payment, without any reservation of a lien, that Babb, in
order to enforce payment, would have no right to retake the
cattle from the possession of the plaintiff or of his agent. And
that there might be no confusion in the mind of the jury as to
the right of Babb to resume possession of the cattle, they
were instructed to find for the defendants, if they believed
from the evidence that Carter, in whose possession they were
when retaken, had authority from Crabtree to settle his debts
and to sell and dispose of his cattle, and that he delivered
them, under authority from Crabtree, in payment of the notes.
In all this we do not perceive any error to the prejudice of the
substantial rights of the defendants.
There are no other questions presented that we deem it
necessary to notice, and the judgment must be

Affirrned.

VEACH v. RICE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERNT DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
flo. 208. Argued March 15, 18, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.
The judgments of Courts of Ordinary in Georgia in respect to subject
matter within their jurisdiction are no more open to collateral attack
than those of any other court.
The judgment of the Court of Ordinary allowing the resignation of one of
two administrators upon proceedings had pursuant to statute, and discharging him after he had accounted to his co-administrator, and the
latter had given a new bond, operated to exonerate the sureties upon the
joint bond of both from liability for a devastavit committed after such
order of discharge.
Cross-bills are necessary where certain defendants seek affirmative relief
against their codefendants.
Where the Ordinary takes an administrator's bond in good faith, and it
appears after liability has been incurred, that the names of some of the
supposed sureties were signed thereto without authority, the mere fact
0

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
that the latter cannot be held, will not constitute a defence as to those
who executed the bond without being misled or having relied upon the
others being bound.

TME court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:
James L. Rice and his wife, Ada S. Rice, citizens of the
State of Tennessee, filed their bill of complaint, July 12th,
1881, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Georgia, against Frank P. Gray and his wife,
Cora M., and also against said Gray as administrator of the
estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, and also as guardian of the
said Cora M., Napoleon B. Tumlin, George H. Tumlin, Lula
T. Lyon, John S. Leake, John W. Gray, William T. Wofford,
A. P. Wofford, Edwin M. Price, John G. B. Erwin, Henry C.
Erwin, James M. Veach, Robert L. Rogers, W. I. Benham,
John J. Howard, A. W. Mitchell, Mary L. Spencer, Francis
M. Ford, Noah King, Thomas W. Leake, Henry C. Ramsauer,
administrator, and others, all citizens of the State of Georgia,
alleging that on the 2d day of June, 1875, one Lewis Tumlin,
of the county of Bartow, Georgia, died intestate, leaving as
his heirs-at-law, his wife Mary L. Tumlin, now Mary L. Spencer; his sons, Napoleon B. Tumlin and George H. Tumlin;
his daughters, the'said Ada S. Rice, formerly Ada S. Tumlin,
.Lula T. Lyon, formerly Lula T. Tumlin, Cora M. Gray, formerly Cora M. Tumlin; and one Lewis T. Erwin, the son of a
deceased daughter, who has sold and conveyed his interest in
said estate to John S. Leake, each of whom upon his death
was entitled to one seventh part of his estate, his wife having
elected to take a child's part in lieu of dower; that the estate
was of the aggregate value of about $300,000; that Frank P.
Gray and Napoleon B. Tumlin obtained temporary letters of
administration on said estate on the 11th day of June, 1875,
giving bond in the sum of $200,000, with Abda Johnson, William T. Wofford, John W. Gray, James M. Veach and Edwin
M,. Price as sureties; that on the second day of August, 1875,
said Frank P. Gray and one John A. Erwin obtained permanent letters of administration on said estate and gave bond as
such, in the sum of $600,000 with Abda Johnson, William

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

T. Wofford, John W. Gray, James Af. Veach, Edwin M. Price,
Noah King, A. 0. Trimble, Joel H. Dyer, William W. Rich,
James 0. Wofford, Nelson Gilreath, J. J. Howard, Robert L.
Rogers, William I. Benham, John S. Leake, A. W. Mitchell,
J. G. B. Erwin, Henry 0. Erwin and Lewis R. Ramsauer, intestate of Henry C. Ramsauer, and one Thomas Stakley and
one Thomas Tumlin as sureties; that John A. Erwin had
since that time removed from the State of Georgia to the
State of Tennessee, and the said Thomas Tumlin had removed
to Alabama; that Stakley had died intestate and no letters of
administration had been granted on his estate until within
less than twelve months before the filing of this bill; that
said Abda Johnson died July 10, 1881, and his estate is now
unrepresented, and for these reasons said Erwin, Tumlin, Stakley and Johnson are not made parties; that said Lewis R.
lRamsauer died intestate, and Henry C. Ramsauer has qualified as his administrator, and as such is made a party, and
"that the joint administration of said Frank P. Gray and
John A. Erwin continued from the second day of August,
1875, until the second day of May, 1876, when the said John
A. Erwin resigned, and his resignation was accepted by the
Court of Ordinary of the county of Bartow." Complainants
are informed and believe that Erwin resigned to avoid "the
consequences of said Gray's waste and mismanagement," and
thereupon "said Gray became sole administrator, against the
consent and at the protest of all the heirs except Cora A.
Gray and Mary L. Spencer, and gave bond as sole administrator in the sum of $140,000, with the said Abda Johnson,
William T. Wofford, Edwin -M. Price, Noah King, William W.
Rich, John W. Gray, Nelson Gilreath, James 0. Wofford,
John S. Leake and Thomas W. Leake as sureties;" that on
the 18th day of October, 1877, said William T. Wofford,
James C. Wofford and William W. Rich applied to be
relieved from their suretyship on the bond aforesaid on account of their want of confidence in the said Gray, and were
so relieved, and said Gray gave a new bond as such administrator for the same sum, "with the said Abda Johnson, Nelson Gilreath, Noah King, John S. Leake, Thomas W. Leake,

OCTOBER TERe, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Thomas Tumlin, John W. Gray, Absalom P. Wofford and
Francis M. Ford as sureties ;" "that on the sixth day of May,
1878, said Noah King applied to be relieved on his bond last
aforesaid, and was so relieved, and the said Frank P. Gray
gave another bond as administrator in the sum of $140,000,
with the said Abda Johnson, iNelson Gilreath, John W. Gray,
Absalom P. Wofford, John S. Leake, Thomas W. Leake and
Francis K. Ford as sureties;" and "that since that time said
Gray has continued to act as administrator under the bond
last aforesaid and is still in possession of the effects of said
estate not heretofore disposed of."
Complainants show that Lewis Tumlin had made some advancements to some of his children, and on the second day
of October, 1875, a distribution of property in kind was made,
each of the heirs receiving $211,000, including the advancements;
that since that time there has been no distribution, but some
amounts have been received by some of the heirs; that Tumlin's estate was abundantly solvent and his liabilities should
have been long since discharged and the estate wound up and
the balance distributed, "which said Gray undertook and promised to do by his several bonds aforesaid," but he has not done
it, and has refused to account or to pay over to complainants
their distributive share; that Gray has been guilty of negligence, waste and fraud, which complainants proceed to charge
in detail; and that said Lula T. Lyon heretofore filed her bill
against said Gray as administrator, in the Superior Court of
Bartow County, Georgia, seeking an account of her distributive share in said estate, and praying for an injunction to restrain said Gray from selling the real estate of said Tumlin,
which he was, on or about the first day of January last, seeking to do, which injunction "had been granted by ihe judge of
said court and had duly issued." After charging further acts
'of fraud and waste, the bill proceeds: "Complainants are un:able to state in many instances the date at which the waste of
said estate was committed by said Gray, but they are informed
and believe that most of, it occurred after the resignation of
said Erwin, and after his ipresent bond was given, to wit, the
one bearing date the 6th of May, 1878;" that Gray is insol-

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

vent; that A. P. Wofford, John W. Gray and Nelson Gilreath
are insolvent; that Abda Johnson left considerable property,
but his affairs are embarrassed; that John S. and Thomas W.
Leake and Francis M. Ford are not worth exceeding $20,300;
that large sums are due Tumlin's estate, which also owns several
thousand dollars' worth of real estate; that many suits are
pending in favor of the estate for the recovery of money and
property, and also many suits against the estate, all of which
should have been tried and disposed of long since; that the
estate is solvent and Gray has ample means in his hands to pay
off any recovery against it, but Gray has purposely delayed
bringing the suits to trial in order to postpone the final settle'ment of the estate; that Gray has for several years been absent
from Georgia, much of his time in Mississippi, and has declared
his purpose to remove to that State; that on the 18th day of
June, 1881, he filed in the office of the Ordinary of said county
his resignation as administrator; that the heirs will be forced
to suggest some other person as his successor, and whoever
may be appointed the decision may be appealed from, and
pending that, "a temporary administrator with limited powers
would be the only representative of said estate;" and "that
unless they can have the immediate aid of a court of equity
by such suitable injunction and restraining order, and the early
appointment of a receiver, the interests of said estate will
suffer great and immediate loss, and complainants and the
other heirs-at-law of Lewis Tumlin will be injured beyond
remedy." They pray for answer but not upon oath, and for
an injunction and an account, "and that complainants may
have a decree for their distributive share in said estate against
the said Frank P. Gray and his sureties on his administration
bonds aforesaid, and that the respective liabilities of said several securities may be ascertained and fixed by said decree;"
and for general relief.
Copies of the various bonds were filed as exhibits with the
bill and also a copy of Gray's petition to resign as administrator, with citation to the heirs of Tumlin to ,appear before
the Ordinary on the first Monday in July, 1881, to show cause
why the resignation should not be allowed and James 0. Wof-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

ford appointed administrator in Gray's stead, with return of
service on several of the heirs and on Wofford. *
September 5th, 1881, defendants Napoleon B. Tumlin,
George H. Tumlin, Mary L. Spencer, and Lula T. Lyon filed
their answer, admitting the allegations of complainants' bill,
and saying that they have a common interest with complainants in Tumlin's estate, and join in the charges and allegations
of the bill against their codefendants, and unite in the prayers
in said bill contained, and pray an account and for a decree
against Gray and his securities.
October 3d, 1881, Gray and "his securities" answered, denying waste or maladministration by Gray; and on the same
day, "the securities upon the alleged administration bond of
John A. Erwin and Frank P. Gray" answered, denying any
maladministration by Erwin and Gray, or either of them, during the period of their joint administration, and setting up
Erwin's discharge, the giving of a new bond by Gray, and the
settlement and accounting by Erwin. A demurrer for want
of jurisdiction was also filed, and, having been argued, the
circuit judge delivered an opinion assigning grounds for retaining the cause, the demurrer was overruled, a receiver appointed,
and an injunction issued.
On the 20th of March, 1882, the case was referred to a
special master to report upon the questions of law and fact
raised by, or included in, the pleadings, and to state an account.
May 19th, 1883, complainants filed a petition stating that
when the original bill was filed, they were informed and believed "the following state of facts to exist, to wit: That
John A. Erwin had, in April, 1876, applied to the ordinary of
Bartow County, Georgia, for leave to resign his office as a coadministrator on the estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased; that
orators in connection with N. B. Tumlin, G. H. Tumlin, Mary
L. Spencer, and Lula T. Lyon had objected to said resignation,
and upon the trial of their caveat to said application for leave
to resign the ordinary had allowed said resignation, and all
the other caveators heard had appealed from that decision,
except orators, who gave the matter no further attention, and

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

were informed and believed that said resignation had been
allowed, and they have all the time, until the filing of their
bill, thought and believed that said Erwin had resigned his
trust and his resignation had been allowed and accepted by
the court;" that they believed said resignation could not
release the sureties on the bond of Gray and Erwin, and since
the reference of the case and during the hearing before the
master defendants have put in evidence the record of said
Erwin's resignation and the proceedings on appeal, from which
it appears that Erwin's resignation has never been in fact or
in law allowed; that "not being parties to said appeal, they
had not given any attention to it, and did not know what had
been done in it, except that the jury had found against the
appeal, and they believed that all other legal steps had been
taken to give effect to the verdict," which they now learn was
not the case; and they ask to amend: "By an averment that
Sohn A. Erwin, though not a party to said bill by reason of
the fact that he resided without the jurisdiction of the court,
is not only bound as the security of said Frank P. Gray in
common with all the other sureties of said Gray and Erwin on
the first administration bond, as claimed in the original bill,
and is still in law one of the administrators of said estate, and
has never legally resigned his trust as a co-administrator with
Frank P. Gray on said estate, and that complainants are entitled to relief accordingly against them and all the sureties on
all the administration bonds on said estate, and they pray
relief accordingly." Leave to amend was granted on the
same day, and the bill as amended referred to the special
master.
On the 13th of September, 1883, the joint and several answer of H. 0. Erwin and J. G. B. Erwin, two of the defendants, was filed, by leave of court, averring that they never
had become sureties on the bond of Erwin and Gray, because
they had only authorized their names to be signed to the bond
of Erwin.
On the 4th of October, 1883, Ramsauer, administrator, answered, stating that he is the administrator of L. R. Ramsaner, who signed a power of attorney authorizing respondent

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

to sign his name as one of the sureties to Erwin's bond, and
he was also authorized by H. 0. Erwin and J. G. B. Erwin to
sign such bond for them as attorney .infact, and that the
power of attorney was changed by interlineation so as to
authorize the signing of the bond of Erwin and Gray.
October 9th, 1883, the answer of James M. Veach, Robert
L. Rogers, A. 0. Trimble, W. I. Benham, John J. Howard
and A. W. Mitchell was filed, by leave, stating that they had
signed the bond made jointly by John A. Erwin and F. P.
Gray as the administrators of the estate of Lewis Tumlin;
that John A. Erwin resigned his administratorship in May,
1876, and he, as well as his bondsmen, were discharged "by
order of the Ordinary of Bartow County," and these respondents supposed that was the end of their connection with the
administration of said estate. They insist that John A. Erwin
is a necessary party to this bill as proposed to be amended;
that they are informed that three of their co-sureties, namely,
H. 0. and J. G. B. Erwin and L. R. Ramsauer, are seeking
release on the ground that they only authorized their names
to be signed to the bond of Erwin, and not of Erwin and
Gray, and respondents say "that they were particular to make
inquiry as to whether the Erwins and Ramsauer would go on
said bond, and they agreed to sign said bond only upon condition that the others did." They set up Erwin's resignation
upon notice to the heirs and distributees, and his discharge,
which they insist discharged them from further liability; and
say they know nothing of the alleged maladministration of
Gray.
Replication was filed November 24, 1883.
September 22, 1883, the special master filed his report stating the death of Tumlin, the names of his heirs-at-law, the
election of the widow to take a child's part, the removal of
Erwin to Tennessee, and of Thomas Tumlin to Alabama; the
death of Stakley, of L. R. Ramsaifer, and of Abda Johnson,
the appointment of Gray and Tumlin as temporary administrators and of Gray and Erwin as permanent administrators,
on the second day of August, 1875, and the giving of bond by
them, in the usual form, in the penal sum of $600,000, which

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

"bond was joint and several and payable to the Ordinary of
Bartow County, Georgia, for the time being, and his successors
in office." The report sets forth the return of the inventory,
which alleged that "there were some wild lands and evidences
of debt left out to be appraised as soon as they could be definitely ascertained;" the sale of personal property; the award
of support for widow and minor; the appointment of commissioners to divide land and their return; the application by the
administrators for a commission of 3 per cent on $141,456, as
compensation foi'services in and about the division of the real
estate; the allowance of the 3 per cent; the first annual return of Gray and Erwin and its approval; the application of
Erwin for discharge; the order requiring the distributees to
show cause; the order of discharge; the giving by Gray of a
new bond; the final receipt of Gray~to Erwin and the final
discharge; and the appeal from the decision of the Ordinary
permitting Erwin to resign and Gray to become sole administrator, to the Superior Court of Bartow County, where it was
affirmed by verdict, August 4, 1876. The report says there is
no record evidence that a judgment was entered upon said
verdict. It further states that on Xune 16, 1876, Gray gave
bond to Erwin reciting that :Erwin transfers to Gray all commission and compensation which might be allowed Erwin for
his services as administrator, and in consideration thereof Gray
bound himself to pay any judgment against Erwin for any
waste or loss occasioned by any act or failure of duty in any
way by Erwin as administrator; sundry sales by Gray returned
to the Ordinary; the discharge of W. T. Wofford, Rich, and
James C. Wofford, sureties on Gray's administration bond;
the new bond given by Gray, October 13, 1877; the new bond
given by Gray, May 6, 1878 ; the second return by Gray, administrator, August 6, 1877, further time having been granted
to him to make it; the return of 1878, in accordance with time
given to make it; the return for 1879, 1880, and 1881; and
the appointment of the receiver in this case, November 14,
1881. Various charges for commissions on interest are considered, and the subject of the inventory of wild lands, the
failure to make and perfect return thereof being held to be

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

excusable and not to have damaged the estate. The master
holds there was a valid resignation and discharge of Erwin
from the office of administrator, dating from June 12, 1876,
but that the sureties on the bond of Gray and Erwin were not
discharged. He disallows the 3 per cent commissions on
division of land, amounting to $3433.68, as excessive, and reduces it to five hundred dollars, which was subsequently disallowed by the court. He considers the state of the accounts
elaborately, and holds the sureties on Gray and Erwin's bond
liable '" for the waste or default of the joint dministration of
Gray and Erwin, and since of the sole administration of
Gray;" and he refers to the claim, September 20, 1883, of two
of the sureties on the bond of Gray and Erwin, to wit, Henry
0. and J. G. B. Erwin, that they never signed nor authorized
any one to sign their names to a joint bond of Gray and
Erwin, but he refused to hear evidence because the issue was
not involved in the pleadings as they then stood. To this re-.
port defendants V¥ach, :Rogers, Trimble, Benham, Howard,
Mitchell, H. 0., and J. G. B. Erwin, and iRamsauer filed their
exceptions, and they subsequently petitioned the court to be
allowed to file amended answers, which was allowed, and
which amendments have heretofore been given.
November 26, 1883, the report was recommitted with directions, and sundry other reports made, and among them one,
October 4, 1884, that H. C. Erwin, J. G. B. Erwin, and H. 0.
Ramsauer were not bound as sureties on the Gray and Erwin
bond because they had not authorized their names to be
signed to it, and holding that Benham, Rogers, Trimble,
Mitchell, Veach and Howard were not thereby discharged.
The master also reported that a judgment in the Bartow Superior Court had been entered February 16, 1884, nunc ro tunc,
as of the July term, 1876, upon the verdict upon appeal from
the discharge of Erwin by the Ordinary, but that his opinion
remained unchanged that the release or discharge of Erwin as
co-administrator with Gray did -not discharge the sureties on
said joint bond. The complainants excepted to the report of
the master in favor of H, C. and J. G. B. Erwin, and Ramsaner. Defendants Veacli, Howard, Trimble, Rogers, Benham

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

and Mitchell excepted to the master's report in discharging
the two Erwins and Ramsauer and not discharging them, as
well as to the forfeiture of certain commissions reported by
him.
December 13, 1884, the defendant Cora Al. Gray filed a
supplemental answer, praying for a decree as a distributee, as
did defendant John S. Leake, January 21, 1885.
Among the proofs in the case accompanying the master's
reports were the petition of John A. Erwin for permission to
resign his office of administrator, and the proceedings thereon.
This petition was dated April 11, 1876, and set forth the issuing of letters of administration to Gray and Erwin; that
Tumlin left as his heirs-at-law and distributees of his estate his
widow, Mrs. Mary L. Tumlin, Napoleon Tumlin, Mrs. Lula T.
Lyon, Mrs. Cora Gray, George Henry Tumlin, a minor, and
Lewis T. Erwin; that Mrs. Gray is a minor, and Frank P.
Gray her guardian; that Erwin is guardian of George Henry
Tumlin and Lewis T. Erwin; that Mrs. Ada S. Rice, of Tennessee, is also one of the heirs-at-law of said Lewis Tumlin,
and a distributee of his estate; that "your petitioner is in bad
health, and from his physical infirmity is unable to give that
attention to the management of said estate that he otherwise
would, and that he ought to give as administrator; that most
of the real estate belonging to said estate and a gTeat portion
of the personalty has been divided and delivered to the distributees of said estate; that Frank P. Gray, the co-administrator of your petitioner, is willing to give new bond and carry
on said administration of said estate alone. Your petitioner,
therefore, prays that he be permitted to resign his office as
administrator on the estate of said Lewis Tumlin, upon a full
and complete compliance with the law in such case made and
provided, and your petitioner prays that each of said heirs-atlaw of -said Lewis Tumlin hereinbefore named may be cited
by your honor to be and appear before your honor on the first
Monday in May next, then and there to show cause, if any
they have, why your petitioner should not resign his office of
administrator as aforesaid, on his complying with the law in
such case made and provided."

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

On the 12th of April, 1876, citation in due form was issued
upon said petition by the Ordinary to the heirs-at-law and distributees of the estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, and to the

guardians of the minor heirs named in said petition, and it
was "further ordered that each of said heirs-at-law who are of
full age, and the guardians of the minor heirs, be served with
a copy of the foregoing petition and this citation (unless they
should acknowledge service) ten days before the time appointed
for hearing said petition and passing on same." Service was
acknowledged of the petition and citation and further service
waived, April 13, 1876, by John A. Erwin as guardian for G.
H. Tumlin and as guardian for L. T. Erwin, and by Frank P.
Gray as administrator and as guardian for Cora Gray; service
of petition and citation was also acknowledged by Mary L.
Tumlin and N. Tumlin, April 17, 1876, and the petition and
citation was served on Mrs. Lula T. Lyon, April 20, 1876;
affidavit was also made that on the 7th [17th] day of April,
1876, a copy of the petition of Erwin and a copy of the citation signed by the Ordinary were handed to Mrs. Ada S. Rice
in person, and that at the same time Mrs. Ada S. Rice wrote
the following on the original, to wit: "I acknowledge service
of the within petition this April 17, 1876."
On the 1st of May, 1876, Gray filed before the Ordinary a
written expression of his willingness for Erwin to resign, Gray
retaining the sole administration in his own name, and proposing to file "such bond in furtherance of the same as the Ordinary may deem proper in the premises."
May 1, 1876, the Ordinary entered the following order in
open court:
Court of Ordinary, Bartow County. Regular Term, May 1,1876.
John A. Erwin, one of the adm'rs of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, 1
Frank P. Gray, adm'r; Frank P. Gray, guardian; lary L.
Tumlin, Napoleon Tumlin, et al., heirs-at-law, etc.

Upon considering the above and foregoing application of
John A. Erwin, one of the administrators on the estate of

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

Lewis Tumlin, late of Bartow County, deceased, for leave to
resign his said office of administrator, and all the heirs-at-law
of Lewis Tumlin having been duly served with citation to
show cause why John A. Erwin should not be allowed to resign the office of administrator on the estate of Lewis Tumlin,
deceased, and all of said heirs being represented now before
the court, and no sufficient cause being shown why said Erwin
should not be allowed to resign his trust, as administrator as
aforesaid, and it appearing to the court that the bodily health,
physical infirmities, and the health of his wife are such that
he is unable to give his attention to the management of the
business of said estate, and Frank P. Gray being cited to appear before the court, and having been served with said citation, and now coming before the court and expressing a willingness to accept the office of administrator of the estate of
Lewis Tumlin, deceased, and it appearing to the court that the
allowing of said Erwin to resign his office of administrator
will not injure the interest of said estate in any way: Therefore, ordered and adjudged by the court, that the resignation
of the said John A. Erwin of the office of administrator on
the estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, be, and the. same is
hereby, allowed, and it is hereby further ordered and adjudged
by the court that Frank P. Gray, the co-administrator of the
said John A. Erwin upon the estate of the said Lewis Tumlin,
deceased, be, and he is hereby, declared and appointed the sole
administrator of the estate of the said Lewis Tumlin, deceased,
and the said Frank P. Gray is hereby required to give a new
bond and security, for the faithful administration of said estate, in the sum of one hundred and forty thousand dollars,
and upon said bond and security being given, and the said
John A. Erwin, upon his settling and accounting with said
Frank P. Gray, the sole and remaining administrator of the
estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, his successor, of his accounts
as administrator, and the filing of the receipt of his successor
in the Ordinary's office, as provided bylaw, and upon so doing
that the said John A. Erwin, as administrator and his securities, be, an& they are hereby, discharged from any afid all
liability for any mismanagement of said estate in the future,
VOL. Cxxx1-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

but not from any past liability of the said John A. Erwin, as
administrator as aforesaid.
Granted in open court, May term, 1876.
J. A. HowAR, Ordinary.
On the same day the petition of Gray and Erwin was filed,
showing that they had distributed in kind real estate among
the heirs-at-law of the deceased amounting to $114,456, specifying the parcels and amounts, and setting up that "the responsibility and the trouble in effecting the transfer has been
considerable. Your petitioners allege that they have received
no compensation at all for this service thus rendered said estate,
and pray your honor to pass an order allowing them 3 per
cent on said sum of $114,456 as commission on the same;"
whereupon the court entered an order allowing the administrators ."for extra compensation for delivering and dividing to
the heirs-at-law the real estate in kind belonging to said deceased," 3 per cent on the above sum.
On the 6th of May a list and schedule of all the property
which had come to the possession of Gray and Erwin as administrators, and which remained unadministered and in their
possession May 6, 1876, not embracing the wild lands, which
"have not yet been fully located," was filed, and a receipt
from Gray to Erwin for all of said property, which was acknowledged before the Ordinary and filed in his office M ay 22,
1876. On the 2d of May, Gray g-a.ve a new bond, as required
by the order of May 1, reciting the resignation of Erwin and
its allowance, and the order for the new bond, the condition
being: "Now, if the above bound Frank P. Gray shall well
and truly administer the goods and chattels, rights and credits,
lands and. tenements of the said Lewis Tumlin, deceased, which
.remain to be administered, and which have come to the hands,
possession or knowledge of the said Frank P. Gray, or in the
hands or possession of any other person or persons for him,"
etc., etc., in the usual form; which bond was duly attested and
approved by the Ordinary, and "filed in office May 2d, 1876."
Oif the 12th of June, 1876, the following order was entered
in open court by the Ordinary:

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

Court of Ordinary, Bartow County. Adjourned Term.
June 12, 1876.
John A. Erwin, Adm'r est. Lewis Tumlin, dec'd.

Upon considering the above application of John A. Erwin,
one of the joint administrators of the estate of Lewis Tumlin,
late of Bartow County, deceased, for a discharge, and the said
John A. Erwin, as administrator, having by order of this court
been permitted to resign said trust, and which resignation has
been accepted by the court, and Frank P. Gray, his co-administrator, having consented to accept the entire administration
of said estate, and having given new bond and security, as
ordered by the court, and the said John A. Erwin having filed
a return showing the property that has been administered belonging to said estate, and having filed the said Frank P.
Gray's receipt for all the unadministered property belonging
to said estate, and being satisfied that said return and receipt
contain all the property administered and not administered
belonging to said estate which has come into the hands of
John A. Erwin, as administrator, it is therefore ordered that
said John A. Erwin be, and he is hereby, fully discharged from
the office of administrator on the estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, and that letters of dismission do issue to him.
Granted in open court June adj'd term, 1876.

J. A. HowARD, Ordinanj.
From this order mrs. Mary L. Tumlin, Mrs. Lula T. Lyon
and Napoleon Tumlin appealed to the Superior Court of Bartow County, where the appeal was dismissed as to Mrs. Mary
L. Tumlin at her request, and upon trial the jury returned the
following verdict, August 4, 1876: "That the jury find in favor
of John A. Erwin, and that his resignation be allowed."
An order appears of record in the Superior Court, headed as
follows:
"Appeal to the Superior Court of Bartow Co., Ga., from
the order in the Ordinary's court of said county permitting
John A. Erwin to resign and F. P. Gray to become sole adm'r
of said estate, and required to give new bond, and Gray to become sole adm'r of said estate, and refusing to allow Theodore

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Smith to be co-adm'r of said estate. Appeal from the above
decision of the Ordinary made May 1st, 1876, and carried to
the Superior Court of said Co., by whom the decision of said
Ordinary was affirmed at the July term, 1876."
This order granted thirty days to the appellants to perfect
their motion for a new trial and agree upofh the evidence, the
motion to be heard in vacation, so that if the motion for a new
trial be refused the appellants can take the case to the Supreme
Court of Georgia at the next January term. Nothing further
appears to have been done in the premises, but at the January
term, 1884, of the Bartow Superior Court, due notice having
been given to the heirs and distributees and to the receiver in
this case, the Superior Court entered judgment nuncpro tuen
upon the verdict rendered in 1876, affirming the allowance of
Erwin's resignation.
On the 22d day 9f January, 1885, a final decree was rendered, by which, after overruling the various exceptions to the
reports of the special master, it was among other things adjudged and decreed that Gray was liable on his several administration bonds for the sum of 8-7,122.44, the sureties on the
bond of Erwin and Gray being held liable for the whole
amount, and the sureties on the other bonds for different parts
of said gross sum, and from that decree appeal was prosecuted
to this court by James 11. Veach, J. J. Howard, W. I. Benham, R. L. Rogers, A. C. Trimble and A. W. Mitchell, a
special order being entered allowing the appeal to the above
named, as being those only of the sureties on the joisit bond
of Gray and Erwin, who excepted to the reports of the special
master upon the grounds taken by them, and they alone of
the defendants being interested in the questions made by their
exceptions, and it being made to appear to the court that they
had notified all the other defendants of their purpose to appeal.
The following sections from the Code of Georgia, third
edition, 1882, were in force at the time of the transactions in
question:
§ 331. Courts of Ordinary have authority to exercise original, exclusive and general jurisdiction of the following subjects
matter:

VEACH v. RICE.
Statement of the Case.

1. Probate of wills. 2. The granting of letters testamentary, of administration, and the repeal or revocation of the
same. 3. Of all controversies in relation to the right of executorship or administration. 4. The sale and disposition of
the real property belonging to, and the distribution of, deceased
persons' estates. 5. The appointment and removal of guardians and imainors and persons of unsound mind. 6. All controversies as to the right of guardianship. 7.The auditing and
passing returns of all executors, administrators and guardians.
8. The discharge of former, and the requiring of new surety
from administrators and-guardians. 9. The issuing commissions of lunacy in conformity to law. 10. Of all such other
matters and things as appertain or relate to estates of deceased
-persons, and to idiots, lunatics and insane persons. 11. Of all
such matters as may be conferred on them by the constitution
and laws.- 12. [And concurrent jurisdiction with the county
judge in the binding out of orphans and apprentices, and all
controversies between master and apprentice.]
§ 2150. The contract of suretyship is one of strict law, and
his liability will not be extended by implication or interpretation.
§ 2490. Administration de bonis non is granted upon an
estate already partially administered, and from any cause
unrepresented.
§ 2499. If administration has been granted to more than
one, upon the death of either the right of administration survives to the other.
§ 2500. Administration may be granted to other persons
than him in whose name the citation issues, and without a
new citation being published.
§ 2505. Every administrator, upon his qualification, shall
give bond, with good and sufficient security, to be judged of
by the Ordinary, in a sum equal to double the amount of the
estate to be administered; such bond shall be payable to the
Ordinary for the benefit of all concerned, and shall be attested
by him or his deputy, and shall be conditioned for the faithful
discharge of his duty as such administrator, as required by law.
A substantial compliance with these requisitions for the bond

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellees.

shall be deemed sufficient, and no administrator's bond shall
be declared invalid by reason of any variation therefrom, as to
payee, amount, or condition, where the manifest intention was.
to give bond as administrator, and a breach of his duty as
such has been proved.
§ 2510. If two or more administrators unite in a common
bond, all the sureties are bound for the acts of each administrator, and the administrators themselves are mutual sureties
for each other's conduct.
§ 2512. In all cases of removal of an administrator for any
cause, the sureties on his bond are liable for his acts in connection with his trust, up to the time of his settlement with
an administrator de bonis non, or the distributees of the estate.
§ 2514. If .there are more administrators than one, and
complaint is made against one only, and his letters are revoked, the entire trust remains in the hands of the other; and
with him as to an administrator do bonis non the removed coadministrator must account.
§ 2610. Any administrator who, from age or infirmity, removal from the county, or for any other cause, desires to
resign his trust, may petition the Ordinary, stating the reasons,
and the name of a suitable person qualified and entitled to
and willing to accept the trust; whereupon the Ordinary shall
cite such person, and the next of kin of the intestate, to appear
and show cause why the order should not be granted. If no
good cause be shown, and the Ordinary is satisfied that the
interest of the estate will not suffer, the resignation shall be,
allowed, and the administrator shall be discharged from his
trust whenever he has fairly settled his accounts with his successor and filed with the Ordinary the receipt in full of such
successor. I'Jinors in interest shall be allowed five years from
the time of their arrival at majority to examine into and open
such settlement.
..

'. L.

ynatt and

.Mf._.

Hammond for appellants.

Mr. TV. K I6ore, for appellees, contended as follows as to
the points passed upon by the court in its opinion:

VEACH v. RICE.
Argument for Appellees.

I. The minors were not parties to the proceedings upon
Erwin's resignation, and not being parties, it was not effectual
as against them. John A. Erwin, in seeking to resign his
trust, and F. P. Gray, who wanted the sole administration,
both had interest adverse to the three minor heirs. In such
case the acknowledgment of service of John A. Erwin, as
guardian for the minors, G. H. Tumlin and L. T. Erwin, was
insufficient and ineffectual, as well as the acknowledgment
of F. P. Gray, as guardian of Cora Gray, minor. This is
the only service shown in the record and is the only service
directed to be made in the citation itself. Code of Georgia,
§ 1821; Act of February 25, 1876, Session Acts of Georgia
of 1876, 103.
IL Erwin's resignation, if valid, did not -accomplish his
release as security, nor the release of the appellants who were
sureties on the joint and several bond of Frank P. Gray
and John A. Erwin. Sdction 2510 of the Code of Georgia,
which was the law at that time, provides that if two or more
administrators unite in a common bond, all the sureties are
bound for the acts of each administrator, and the administrators themselves are mutual sureties for each other's conduct.
This provision of law is part of the bond, and should be read
as if inserted in it. lFon Ilofman v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535,
550.
The act of February 10, 1854, incorporated into the Code of
Georgia as § 2610, first made provision for the resignation of
an executor. It seems to contemplate the resignation of a
sole administrator, but is doubtless broad enough, under §
4 of the Code, paragraph 4, to include one of two or more
joint administrators. That paragraph reads: "The singular
or plural number shall each include the other, unless expressly
excluded." Nevertheless it has no application to that case,
because the whole trust remained in the survivor by operation
of law. The common law is in force in Georgia, (Cobb's
Digest, 721,) and by it the power of an executor survives on the
death of his co-executor. And so, if administration is granted
to two, and one dies, the other becomes sole administrator,
and all the power of the office survives to him. 2 Williams on

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellees.

Executors, citing Jocorab v. Riarwood, 2 Yes. Sen. 267, 268;
Flanders v. Clark, 1 Yes. Sen.; see also, Hudson v. Hudson,
1 Atk. 460, S. C., cas. temp. Talb. 127; 2d Com. Dig. B. 7;
Bac. Abr. 56, tit. Executors (G.). In case of death the entire
interest vests in the survivor.
The Ordinary could not make a new appointment to the
office of administrator while it was not vacant. Griffith v.
Frazier,8 Cranch, 9; Kane v. Paul,14 Pet. 33; Braxton v.
State, 25 Indiana, 82; Pritchardv. State, 34 Indiana, 137;
Brandt on Suretyship and Guarantee, § 498, and cases cited;
Clarke v. State, 6 G. & J. 288; S. C. 26 Am. Dec. 576; .irby
v. Turner, Hopk. Ch. 309; Green v. Hanerry, 2 Brock. 403.
And in fact he did not attempt to exercise such a power.
The order granted at May term declares that the resignation
of Erwin be allowed, and that Frank ?. Gray, the co-administrator of said John A. Erwin, be, and he is hereby, declared
and appointed the sole administratdr of the estate, and required to give new bond, etc. The Ordinary by this order
declared just what the law declared in such cases. If he had
regarded the office vacant and the appointment a new one
it would have been his duty to administer to him the oath provided for every administrator in § 2504 of the Code, and it
would also have been his duty to appoint and grant to him letters of administration de bonis non under § 2490 of Code. "Administration de bonis non is granted upon an estate already
partially administered and from any cause unrepresented."
As to the discharge of the sureties, we admit that, as there
was a law in force in Georgia at the date thereof authorizing
the discharge of sureties, these sureties could have been discharged in the manner pointed out by that law without impairing the obligation of this contract, and that is so because such
law then existing became part of the contract, as hereinbefore
contended. We maintain, however, that the terms and"conditions of that law must be strictly complied with; it is not only
law but also contract.
Section 2509, Code of Georgia, makes the provisions of the
code in reference to relief of sureties on guardians' bonds applicable to sureties on administrators' bonds, and said provis-

VEACH +v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

ions are found in the Code, § 181'(. This section of the
Code has been so fully construed and passed upon by the
Supreme Court of Georgia that I refer to their decision to
show that there was not and could not be any valid discharge of the sureties in this case. See Dupont v. .Mayo,
56 Georgia, 304.
III. The second report of the special master was in error in
holding that the discharge of J. G. B. Erwin, H. C. Erwin and
L. S. Ramsadfer because their names had been improperly signed
to the joint bond of Gray and Erwin, administrators, by their
attorney-in-fact, did not discharge all the sureties. Lewis v.
Gordon County, 70 Georgia, 486; .fathis v. Morgan, 72
Georgia, 517; Dair v. United States, 16 Wall. 1; State v.
Lewis, 73 North Carolina, 138; Cutler v. Roberts, 7 Nebraska, 4; Yash v. Tugate, 32 Grattan, 595; Trustees of
Schools v. Sheik, 119 Illinois, 579; Carroll County v. Ruggles,
69 Iowa, 269.
M.

CHIEF

JusTicn FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
By the order of the Ordinary of May 1, 1876, the resignation
of John A. Erwin as administrator of the estate of Lewis Tumlin, deceased, was allowed, and Frank P. Gray was appointed
sole administrator and required to give a new bond and security,
which being given, and Erwin having settled and accounted
with Gray, his successor in administration, and filed his receipt
as provided by law, it was ordered that John A. Erwin as administrator and his securities be discharged from "any and all
liability for any mismanagement of said estate in the future,
but not from any past liability;" and this sdttlement having
been made and receipt filed and new bond given by Gray, and
these successive acts approved, by order of June 12, 1876, the
discharge of Erwin as administrator was made absolute.
From the judgment of the Ordinary an appeal was prosecuted to the Superior Court of Bartow County by three of
the heirs, one of whom dismissed her appeal, and, upon trial
had, the decision of the Court of Ordinary was affirmed by

OCTOBER TERMN,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the verdict of a jury, and time taken to perfect a bill of exceptions with the view of carrying the case to the Supreme Court,
which was not done. Judgment appears not to have been
entered upon the verdict until pending this cause, when it was
so entered nuncyro'tunc as of July term, 1876. The Superior
Court thus deterinined the order of the Ordinary to have been
a proper one, and passed upon the question of jurisdiction.
Mrs. Ada S. Rice was duly served with Erwin's petition to
be discharged, and citation to appear, but acquiesced in said
orders, and did not participate in the appeal therefrom, and
paid no further attention thereto, as she says in her petition
to amend of May 19, 1883. Something over five years afterwards she filed the bill in this case, and by amendment, some
two years after that, sought to hold the sureties on the bond
of Erwin and Gray for alleged maladministration of the latter
after the discharge of the former.
The Courts of Ordinary in Georgia are courts of original,
exclusive and general jurisdiction over decedents' estates and
the subject matter of these orders, and its judgments are no
more open to collateral attack than the judgments, decrees or
orders of any other court. .Davie v. McDaniel, 47 Georgia,
195; Barnes v., Underwood, 5-1 Georgia, 87; Patterson v.
Lemon,50 Georgia, 231, 236; Caujollev. .Ferrig,13 Wall. 465.
In Jacobs v. .Pou,18 Georgia, 346, it was held that "the
judgment of dismissal, by the Court of Ordinary, in such cases,
must operate as a discharge from all liability on the part of
the administrator, unless the same be impeached in that court,
for irregularity, or in the Superior Court, for fraud;" and in
Bryan v. 11altor, 14 Georgia, 185, that the order appointing
an administrator, and in Davie v. McDaniel, 47 Georgia, 195,
and .AecDade v. Burch, 7 Georgia, 559, that an order for sale
of lands, could not be collaterally attacked.
It is argued, however, that upon Erwin s resignation the
whole trust remained in Gray as survivor, and that the Ordinary could not make a new appointment while the office was
not vacant, and § 2514 of the code is referred to, providing
that, upon the revocation of the letters of one administrator,
the trust remains in the hands of the other. The well-known

VEACH v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

case of Gifth v. Frazier, 8 Cranch, 9, isalso cited as in point,
where letters of administration were held invalid, there being
a qualified executor capable of exercising the authority with
which he had been invested by the testator. But we think
the position taken is untenable. Under the code, upon the
death of an administrator, where there are more than one, the
right of administration survives, (§ 2499,) but the Ordinary may
apparently grant letters to others, (§ 2500 ;) and upon the revocation of the letters of one administrator, where there are more
than one, the trust remains in the hands of the other, "and
with him, as to an administrator de bonis non, the removed
administrator must account," (§ 2514,) and his sureties are
"liable for his acts in connection with his trust up to the time
of his settlement with an administrator de onis non or the
distributees of the estate" (§ 2512). When an administrator
resigns, and the resignation is allowed, he "shall be discharged
from his trust whenever he has fairly settled his accounts with
his successor and filed with the Ordinary the receipt in full of
such successor" (§ 2610). This section uses the singular number, but undoubtedly covers the case of more than one administrator. Paragraph 4 of § 4 of the code reads: "The singular or plural number shall each include the other, unless
expressly excluded." Code, 1882, p. 3.
Every administrator after the first is an administrator de
bonis non,in fact, and it is not important it should so appear
of record. Steen v. Bennett, 24 Vermont, 303; Grande v.
Herrerra,15 Texas, 533 ; -Moseley's Administrators v. Miiartin,
37 Alabama, 219; Ex parte -Maxwell, 37 Alabama, 362.
The Ordinary in accepting the resignation of Erwin treated
the case as he would have done if Erwin's letters had been
revoked by removal, and entered the orders in respect to Gray,
as successor of Erwin and Gray, and so administrator de bonis
non, and the new bond was accordingly conditioned to secure
the administration of the property which remained to be administered. It is said by counsel that prior to 1854 there was
no provision in the laws of Georgia for the resignation of an
administrator, but it would seem that if an administrator had
resigned, and his resignation had been accepted, such action

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

on the part of the Ordinary would have been held equivalent
to a revocation of his letters in the exercise of the power of
removal. lfarsh v. The People, 15 Illinois, 284.
As already stated, under the provisions of the Georgia code,
where there are more than one administrator, and the letters
of one are revoked, he must account to his co-administrator "as
to an administratorde honis non," and as, in the instance of the
resignation of a sole administrator he must account to his suc-"
cessor, so where there are more than one, he who resigns inust
account to his co-administrator, as such successor, who would
in effect in such case be an administrator de bonis non.
Irrespectively of statutory regulation, an administrator de
bonis non could only administer upon the assets remaining
unadministered, in specie; but under these provisions the
retiring administrator must account to his successor, and such
accounting is required before discharge.
It is urged that, as Erwin applied only for his own discharge
as administrator and not as surety for Gray, and as the sureties
made no application in their own behalf, the effect of Erwin's
discharge was not to release the sureties. By § 2509 of the
code, the provisions where a surety on a guardian's bonds desires to be relieved as surety are made applicable to sureties
on administrators' bonds; and by § 1817 a mode is provided
for obtaining such relief on complaint made by the surety to
the Ordinary, citation to the guardian, hearing, and order of
discharge. And in Dupont v. .Mayo, 56 Georgia, 304, 306, it
was held that where there was no petition, citation, or hearing,
an order accepting a new bond already executed by the guardian and declaring a former surety discharged, could not be sustained. But those sections apply to a different state of case,
namely, where the sureties are asking to be relieved from
liability, and not where the administrator himself is requesting
leave to retire.
Erwin proceeded in conformity with the, statute in such case
made and provided, and, under the orders of May 1 and June
12, 1876, ceased to be administrator, and was discharged from
further liability as such, as were the sureties who had signed
the bond of Erwin and Gray.

VEACH v. RICE.
Opinion of the Court.

In Justices, etc. v. Selman, 6 Georgia, 432, the second section
of an act of 1S12 came under consideration, which read as follows: "Any executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix,
or guardian, whose residence may be changed from one county
to another, either by the creation of a new county, removal ov
otherwise, shall have the privilege of making the annual returns required of them by this act, to the Court of Ordinary of
the county in which they reside, by having previously obtained
a copy of all the records concerning the estates for which they
are bound as executors, executrix, administrators, administratrix, or guardian, and having had the same recorded in the
proper office in the county in which they then reside, and
having given new bond and security, as the law directs, for the
performance of their duty."
The court held, Lumpkin, J. delivering the opinion, "that
the mere taking of a new bond does not, necessarily, release
the old sureties, and especially when the new bond is taken
by authority of law, for the purpose of strengthening the
existing security," but that when the second or subsequent
bond is given for a new and different undertaking, it operates,
ipsofacto, as a discharge of the prior parties and hence that
when the provisions of the act are fully complied with the
sureties on the first bond are discharged from all further liabilitv on account of their principal.
We are of opinion that the court erred in rendering a decree against the sureties on the joint bond of Erwin and
Gray fori a devastavit committed after June 12, 1876.
Counsel for appellees contend that the sureties on this bond
were not discharged because the service of the petition aild
citation on the three minor heirs, on Erwin's petition to resign,
was insufficient, and guardians ad literm should have been appointed; that the resignation, was not effectual as to them,
and therefore not as to any of the others. This point was not
passed upon by the special master or the Circuit Court, nor
was a cross-bill filed on behalf of either of these defendants.
They asked no relief as against complainants but affirmative
relief against their co-defendants, these sureties, and under
such circumstances cross-bills are necessary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

If, however, cross-bills were filed, as all the defendants are
citizens of Georgia, and the complainants are citizens of Tennessee it is questionable whether the relief which the complainants could not obtain on their own case could be properly
awarded by the Circuit Court, even though it could be successfully contended that these particular defendants were entitled
to relief upon the ground suggested, and that their co-distributees could avail themselves of. such conclusion, in respect to
which we express no opinion, as these questions are not before
us for decision in the present condition of the record.
It is assigned as error that the court decreed in accordance
with the special master's report that the discharge of T. G. B.
Erwin, H. 0. Erwin and L R. Ramsauer, because their names
had been improperly signed to the joint bond of Erwin and
Gray, did not discharige their co-sureties; but this was not
urged on the argument. The master proceeded upon the
ground that it was appellants' duty to see for themselves that
the signatures of their co-sureties were binding upon them, if
they intended to rely upon their being bound; and that it
was the Ordinary's duty to see that valid signatures were
made to the bond, but not to protect any one as surety, and
that no fraud, concealment, or want of good faith could be
charged on the Ordinary.
We do not regard the overruling of the exception, based as
it is on the assumption of knowledge on the part of the
Ordinary, and concealment misleading the other sureties, as
erroneous. Dair v. United States, 16 Wall. 1 ; Lewis v. Board
of Commissioners, 70 Georgia, 486; iifatthis v. .9lorgan, '72
Georgia, 517; Trustees v. Sheik, 119 Illinois, 579.
It is further objected by appellants that the court erred
in disallowing any commissions to Erwin and Gray, and particularly, the commissions of $3433.68 for distribution in kind.
Upon a careful consideration of the proofs in the printed
record and the various reports of the special master bearing
upon this subject, we do not find such evidence of mismanagenient on the part of Erwin and Gray as requires the forfeiture
of all commissions, and, without entering upon any discussion
of the details, we approve of the conclusions reached by the

