N-EW ORLEA.NS

. GAINES.

Statement of the Case.

and set aside the same when the petitioner applied for a habeas
co~pus; and that the writ should have been granted and the
petitioner discharged.
The jud4ment of the District Court is 'reversed,andthe cause
remanded,with directionsto issue a habeas corpus aspayed
for by theyetitioner,andproceed thereon accordingto law.

IEW ORLEANS v. GAINES'S ADMINISTRATOR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No.4. Argued October 13, 14, 1887. -Decided

May 13, 1889.

By the French jurisprudence prevailing in Louisiana, a creditor may exercise the rights of action of his debtor, a right analogous to the garnishee or trustee process in some States.
This right cannot be enforced in the Federal courts by an action at law, but
by a suit in equity, on the principle of subrogation.
The true owner of lands in Louisiana, having recovered the lands, and obtained judgment for the fruits and revenues against the possessor, may
file a bill in equity against the possessor's grantor, who guaranteed the
title, to recover the amount thus recovered-the warrantor of title in
Louisiana being liable to the grantee for the fruits and revenues, for
which the latter has to account t9 the true owner.
There are degrees of bad faith in the case of unlawful possessors. A
merely technical possessor in bad faith, who supposed his title was a
good one, and resisted the claims of the true owner in moral good faith,
will not be compelled to answer for fruits and revenues which he has
not received.
A fictitious charge against such a possessor (by way of fruits and revenues)
of a certain per cent per annum on an inflated valuation of the property,
exhibited in sales at auction in a time of wild speculation, will be set
aside as speculative and unjust.

THIS was a bill filed by Myra Clark Gaines against the city
of New Orleans to recover the amount, with interest, of the
fruits, revenues and value for use, of certain lands in the city
of New Orleans, containing about 135 arpents, which the complainant had recovered from various persons claiming title

OCTOBER TERITI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

under the city. The charge was, that the city was liable as
grantor of the land, as well as guarantor of the title, and
ought to respond for all the rents and revenues of the property
actually received by itself or its grantees, or which might have
been received by a judicious and provident use of the property.
The bill was filed August 7,1879, and on the 5th of May,
1883, a decree was rendered in favor of the complainant for
the sum of $1,925,667.83, with interest on $950,110 from January 10th, 1881. From that decree the present appeal was
taken.
A brief outline of the history of this litigation will conduce
to a better understanding of the case. Daniel Clark, a prominent citizen of New Orleans, of large wealth and possessions,
died there on the 16th of August, 1813, without leaving any
known heirs-at-law nearer than his mother, who was residing
at Germantown, near Philadelphia. A will was found amongst
his papers, sealed up in a package bearing the following inscription in his own hand: "This is my olographic will. New Orleans, 20th May, 1811." (Signed) "Daniel Clark." The will
was short, containing only the following words, to wit: "In
the name of God, I, Daniel Clark, of New Orleans, do make
this my last will and testament: Iprpimis. I order that all
my just debts be paid. Second. I leave and bequeath unto my
mother, Mary Clark, now of Qermantown, in the State of
Pennsylvania, all the estate, whether real or personal, which I
may die possessed of. Third. I hereby nominate my friends,
Richard Relf and Beverly Chew, my executors, with power to
settle everything relating to my estate." (Signed) "Daniel
Clark." This will was duly admitted to probate, and letters
testamentary were granted to the executors named therein.
The executors proceeded to take possession of the estate,
and disposed of a large part of it. There were some outlying
lands, in the suburbs of the city, bordering on St. John's
Bayou, that were not disposed of until 1821, amongst others the
lands now in controversy. Relf and Chew, besides being executors of Clark's will, held a power of attorney from Mary
Clark, his mother, dated October 1, 1813, by which, styling

NEW

ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

herself to be heir, devisee and legatee of Daniel Clark, she
appointed them, (Relf and Chew,) naming them as merchants
of New Orleans and executors of the will of Daniel Clark,
jointly and severally, as her lawful attorneys, for her and in
her behalf, to take possession of the real and personal estate
of Clark; to manage, sell, let, occupy and sue for the same, or,
any part thereof ; to collect moneys, debts and effects belonging to her as sole legatee, d1evisee, or heir-at-law of said Clark;
to make all necessary and proper acts and deeds for conveying
any of the property, and generally to do everything that she
could do in the premises. This power was deposited of record
with John Lynd, a notary public of New Orleans, on the 22d
of April, 1811. By an act of sale, dated 30th of October,
1821, Relf and Chew, in the name of Mary Clark, and by
virtue of said power of attorney, after having put up the prop•erty at auction, sold and conveyed to one Evariste Blanc, the
highest bidder, for the sum of $4760, a piece of land described
as situated on the Bayou St. John, containing about 135 superficial arpents, [equal to 114 acres,] adjoining the road of the
Navigation, or Carondelet, Canal, the lands of E. Cauchoit, the
Broad Street and Bellechasse Street, etc., in conformity with
a plan drawn by Joseph Pili6, city surveyor, on the 20th of
August, 1821; and they subrogated the purchaser to all the
rights of property that Mary Clark had in the land, with right
of seizing the same.
On the 26th day of September, 1834, Evariste Blanc sold
and conveyed the same and other adjoining lands, amounting
in all to 240 arpents, [equal to nearly 203 acres,] to the city of
New Orleans for the sum of $45,000, making the cost of the
property in question about $25,000. This purchase was made
by the city for the purpose of controlling the laying out of
the streets and other public improvements, in that district, in
conformity with the general plan of the city, and more for the
public advantage. No one at that time had any serious question about the validity of the title. Mrs. Gaines, then Mrs.
Whitney, it is true, had, with her husband, in June preceding
filed a petition in the Probate Court in a pending proceeding
on the part of a creditor of Daniel Clark, claiming to be his
VOL.

xMxx--13

OCTOBER TERMI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

daughter and heir, and Relf had been cited to answer it; but
it was regarded as a visionary claim, and made no public
impression.
The city reserved four or five blocks of this purchase for
public purposes, (the erection of drainage works, etc.,) and in
March, 1831, sold off most of the balance 'in building lots.
This happened at a time when real estate in New Orleans
had suddenly risen to the most inflated and fictitious prices.
The real estate crhze, indeed, had infected large portions of
the country. These sales were afterwards mostly anulled for
defects of title, or never carried out, and it would probably
have been impossible for the purchasers to have responded for
the extravagant prices agreed to be paid. In some cases they
were six or seven times the normal value of the property.
According to the proc s-verbal of the auctioneers, the adjudications amounted to the enormous sum of over $600,000, and'
the sales of the lots and squares involved in the present case
amounted to $553,460; but, as before remarked, the whole
transaction, except with regard to a few parcels, fell through,
and theproperty came back into the city's hands. Yet the
amount of these sales forms the basis of the exceedingly large
decree in this case. The same property,' afterwards, about
1848, was again put up at auction, and the property now in
question brought only about $100,000 including some of the
original sales not annulled; - being less than one fifth of the
nominal amounts bid at the first sale. This property, afterwards, by a long process of litigation, was recovered by Mrs.
Gaines as the heir and devisee of Daniel Clark under a late
discovered will, and the tenants were ousted, and this suit was
brought, as before stated, to recover from the city the entire
rents and revenues of the property from the time of its pur-.
chase from Evariste Blanc. The decree in the case, where
there was no proof of actual rents and revenues received by
the city or its grantees, (as was the case wherever, and as long
as, the particular property was unimproved,) charges the city
five per cent per annum on the amount of the sales of 183T,
from that time to the date of the decree (46 years), and interest on that yearly five per cent from the time it accrued,

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

making the amount of revenues, in many cases, more than
400 per cent of the said sales. In this way the amount of
rents and revenues on unimproved property, with the interest
thereon to the 10th of January, 1881, is figured up at $1,348,959.91; in addition to which the decree awards the complainant
the sum of $576,707.92 for the revenues of the improved property whilst in the hands of grantees of the city; making a
total decree of $1,925,667.83, with interest to accrue from January 10, 1881, on the sum of $950,110 (the assumed principal)
until paid. The master had allowed but 70 per cent of the
amount of the sales of 1837 as the basis of calculation, but the
court in its final decree deemed it proper to add on the other
30 per cent.
The connection of Mrs. Gaines with this property arose as
follows: In the early part of the present century one Samuel
B. Davis, generally known as Colonel Davis, resided in New
Orleans, and in 1812 removed to Philadelphia, and afterwards
to Wilmington, in the State of Delaware. In the war of
1812 he had some command in the defence of the Delaware
coast. One of the members of his family was a young girl,
named Myra, who passed as his daughter; but some of Daniel
Clark's intimate friends, including Colonel Davis, were aware
that the girl was acknowledged by Clark to be his daughter,
natural daughter, as generally supposed. She had been born
in New Orleans in 1805 or 1806, and placed in Davis's family,
who was an intimate friend of Clark. Her mother was n6e
Zulime Carri~re, but at the time of the child's birth was called
Madame Des Grange, having been married to a man of that
name. In 1802 she had had a previous child by Clark, named
Caroline, who was born in Philadelphia, and educated there
and in Trenton, at Clark's expense, his partner and agent in
Philadelphia, Mr. Daniel W. Coxe, having charge of her.
This daughter afterwards married a man by the name of
Barnes. After the birth of her -first daughter, Zulime or
Madame Des Grange returnee to New Oileans, and Myra
was born there. This child was taken into the family of Colonel Davis, as before stated, and passed as his daughter. On
the 13th of September, 1832, she was married to Mr. William

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Wallace Whitney at Delamore Place, State of Delaware (Colonel Davis's residence), as the daughter of Colonel Davis.' Mr.
Whitney having died in 1837, she afterwards, in 1839, married
General Edmund P. Gaines. She always asserted that, up to
the time of her marriage to Whitney, she was wholly ignorant
of her true paternity.
Her claim to be entitled to the property of Daniel Clark
rests on two grounds: first, that she was his legitimate daughter; second, that he made a will shortly before his death in
1813 (which, however, was lost or destroyed), in which he
declared her to be his legitimate daughter, and bequeathed to
her all his estate subject to the payment of certain legacies.
The first claim, that she was the legitimate daughter of
Daniel Clark, was based on the allegation that he was married
to her mother, Zulime Carrikre, or Madame Des Grange, at
Philadelphia in 1802 or 1803. This supposedmarriage is testified to by Zulime's sister, Madame Despau, who says that Mr.
Clark desired it to be kept secret, because Zulime's husband,
Des Grange, was still living. This was true; but against that
it is alleged that he (Des Grange) had another wife living when
he married Zulime, so that his marriage with her was void.
Proceedings were undertaken in the ecclesiastical court, at
New Orleans, in September, 1802, to convict Des Grange of
bigamy, but they failed, and he was discharged. The validity
of Zulime's marriage to Clark, therefore, in the last of 1802,
or beginning of 18Q3, (if they were married,) depended on the
fact of Des Grange being a married man when he married
Zulime, which was in 1794. On this point considerable evidence of a conflicting. character was taken.
Meantime Daniel Clark, in 1806 or 1807, paid his addresses
to a Miss Caton, of Baltimore, and in August, 1808, Zulime
married a Dr. Gardette, of Philadelphia -proceedings, both,
which seemed to many persons inconsistent with the marriage
of Clark and Zulime in 1803. Her sister's explanation, howIMarriagenotice in the PhiladelphiaGazette of September 17, 1832: "1Married.-On Thursday evening, the 13th inst., at Delamore Place, Del., by the
Rev. ir. Pardee, William Wallace Whitney, Esq., of New York, to Mliss
Myra E., daughter of Colonel Samuel B. Davis."

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

ever, was that Zulime was indignant that Clark delayed to
acknowledge her and that he paid his addresses to another
lady.
This is the general result of the allegation of Zulime's marriage with Daniel Clark. It is clear from the evidence of some
of his confidential business friends that they gave it no credence. But a majority of this court, in Gaines v. Hennen,
24 How., and Gaines v. N ew Orleans, 6 Wall., were satisfied
from the evidence that they were married in 1802 or 1803,
and that Zulime was free to marry at the time. Of course we
are bound by that decision in this case, as the city of Bew
Orleans was a party or privy in those cases.
The other ground on which Mrs. Gaines's claim rests, is the
supposed will which Daniel Clark made shortly before his
death, in 1813. No copy of such will was ever found; but the
testimony of certain persons intimate with Clark was adduced,
to the effect that they saw such a will in his hands, and knew
it to be in his handwriting, and either read it or heard him
state the contents of it; and heard him declare that he intended it to be his last will; and from this testimony the will
on which the whole claim of Mrs. Gaines really turns was
reduced to writing and admitted to probate in the state courts
of Louisiana, and the courts of the United States considered
themselves bound by that decision. It is true that the ]Louisiana courts have since decided against the will, and revoked
the probate; but their decision has been set aside by this court
because Mrs. Gaines had applied to have the cause removed
to the United States Circuit Court, and the court of the State
had refused to allow such removal. The case was afterwards
tried by the Circuit Court of the United States, and that court
made a decree confirming the probate of the will. This decree
was made on the 30th of April, 1877, at the same time with
decrees in two other cases against various possessors of the
property in question, which will be noted hereafter.
All this was the outcome of a long series of litigation on the
subject of Mrs. Gaines's claim. Her first appearance in the
courts, and the first notice that any one had of her claim, was
her filing a petition with her husband, W. W. Whitney, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

before stated, on the 18th of June, 1834, (21 years after Clark's
death,) in the Probate Court of iNew Orleans, in a certain proceeding instituted by one Sbaumburg, a creditor of Clark,
against his executors for not executing the will and settling
up the estate. In this petition she claimed to be the child and
only heir of Daniel Clark, and prayed that the will of 1811
might be annulled and set aside, and that she might be
declared the heir of Clark, and that the executors of the will
of 1811 might be decreed to deliver up to her the possession of
all the property belonging to the estate. She alleged that
Clark had made another will making her his sole heir; but
made no application concerning it. After some litigation the
plaintiff, Shaumburg, was non-suited in June, 1836, and that
proceeding was ended.
In July of the same year (1836) Myra and her husband,
Whitney, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the United States
for Louisiana against Relf and Chew, the executors of the will
of 1811, and against the heirs of Mary Clark (Daniel's mother
who had died in 1823) and against the occupants of the
various tracts of land of which Clark died seized, amongst
others, against the city of New Orleans as occupant of the
Blanc tract of 135 arpents; and praying for the establishn~ent
of the will of 1813, which she alleged had been made and left
by Mr. Clark and had been destroyed; and that it might be
decreed that the will of 1811 was revoked by the will of 1813
and was void; and that it might be further decreed that she,
Myra, was the legitimate child of said Clark, and that he,
Clark, was the lawful husband of her mother, Zulime Carribre; and that all the sales of real and personal property and
slaves of said Clark made by iRelf and Chew were null and
void; and that the occupants and possessors of the real estate
and slaves should deliver up the same to the complainant with
all the rents, profits and issues thereof, and for an accounting,
etc. This suit was pending in the Circuit Court and in this
court until 1852. Different phases of it will be found reported
in 13 Pet. 401; 15 Pet. 9; 2 How. 619; 6 How. 550.
The Circuit Court in the case of Gaines v. Chew, 2 How.
619, was divided in opinion on three points : (1) whether the

NEW ORLEANS v. GAN-ES.
Statement of the Case.

bill was multifarious or not; (2) whether the court had jurisdiction of the case without probate of the will of 1813; (3)
whether the case was one of equity or law. This court held,
(1) that the bill was not multifarious, being against the executors Relf and Chew, and those who claimed under them; (2)
that no claim could be based on the will of 1813 until it was
admitted to probate, and the probate of the first will was
revoked, and that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction for this
purpose; (3) that the discovery sought by the bill was sufficient
to give the court of chancery jurisdiction. This decision was
rendered in 1844. Meantime Mr. Whitney had died in 1837,
and Myra was married to General Edmund P. Gaines in 1839,
who died in June, 1849; the suit being revived as occasion
required.
Proceedings were carried on separately against one of the
defendants, named Patterson, in the Circuit Court, and a decree
was* obtained there in 1840 in favor of the coniplainants,
requiring Patterson to surrender the property claimed by him.
On appeal to this court the decree was reversed, and a decree
was made establishing, as against Patterson, the validity of
Clark's marriage with Zulime Carriere, the legitimacy and
heirship of Myra, and her title as forced heir to four fifths of the
property held by Patterson, notwithstanding the will of 1811.
The other defendants have always insisted that this case was
a collusive one. The decree of this court was rendered early
in 1852, and the case is reported as -Pattersonv. Gaines, 6
How. 550.
Thus far, 39 years after Clark's death, only one piece of
property had been recovered ; but declarations of the majority
of this court were made that gave the complainants great
encouragement to continue the litigation.
As none of the parties, except Patterson, were bound by
the decision against him on the legitimacy question, and as it
was a question attended with some difficulties, it was deemed
important by Mrs. Gaines, and her counsel, if possible, to have
the will of 1813 established by probate proceedings in Louisiana. The next move was in that direction. In January,
1855, a petition for that purpose was filed by her in the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

proper Probate Court in New Orleans.

In March following

judgment was rendered against the will, and denying probate. But in December, 1855, a decision was rendered by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana, on appeal, establishing the will
in the form contended for by Mrs. Gaines, and a decree was
entered to that effect on the 25th of February, 1856. This
was more than 42 years after the death of Mr. Clark.
The decree of probate thus obtained was of limited effect.
It bound none but those who were parties to the proceeding.
The city of New Orleans and Relf, surviving executor of the
will of 1811, applied for leave to intervene in the case; but
leave was refused. An attorney was appointed to represent
the absent relatives. But the probate of the will enabled Mrs.
Gaines to take her stand upon it in the courts of the United
States, and to avail herself, until it was successfully assailed,
of the status which it gave her, by express declaration, as the
legitimate child and sole heir and legatee of Daniel Clark.
Immediately after probate of the will was thus obtained,
new litigation was started against the parties in possession of
the property of Daniel Clark, all the suits being bills in equity.
First, a bill was filed by Mrs. Gaines against Frangois Dusnan
de la Croix to recover the slaves left by Clark, which were
purchased by de la Croix from the executors. Next, a bill
was filed December 22, 1856, by Mrs. Gaines against the city
of New Orleans and four other persons, charging the city as
possessed of the whole 240 arpents before mentioned, being'
the entire tract sold to the city by Evariste Blanc, including
the 135 arpents now in question. Lastly, a bill was fied
March 27th, 1857, against Lizardi, Egafia, Slidell, Hennen and
14 others, as possessors respectively of the several lots, contained in a square between Poydras and Perdido streets in
New Orleans, but not embracing any of the Blanc tract.
The bills in these three cases were dismissed by the Circuit
Court by simultaneous decrees rendered by Judge McCaleb,
on the 17th of April, 1858. These decrees were appealed to
this court, and were severally reversed, and the claim of Airs.
Gaines was sustained by a majority of the court.
In the last case, that of Gaines v. Lizards and others, de-

NTEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Statement of the Case.

cided in January, 1861, and reported in 24 How. 553, under the
name of Gainesv. Hennen, Chief Justice Taney and Justices
Catron and Grier dissented. In the other two cases, Gaines
v. _New Orleans and Gaines v. De la Croix, decided in January, 1868, and reported in 6 Wall. 642, 719, Justices Grier,
Swayne and Miller dissented. In consequence of the absence
of a justice of the Supreme Court at the Circuit Court holden
at New Orleans, and the district judge being interested, the
judgments Were not entered there on the mandates until May,
1871.
The lands recovered were generally surrendered, and where
no settlements were made references were ordered to ascertain
and take account of the rents and revenues -but only five
squares of the Blanc tract were recovered, being all that remained in the possession of the city. 'The Circuit Court, following the declarations of the Supreme Court, held that the
defendants were possessors in bad faith-that is, that they
were chargeable with notice of Relf and Chew's want of
authority to sell the lands in question, and that this deprived
them, under the law of Louisiana, of the benefit of prescription, and made them accountable for all the rents and revenues from the time their respective possessions commenced.
This operated as a' great hardship; for, although technically
possessors in bad faith, the defendants really and in truth supposed their titles to be valid. The Circuit Court also decided,
in the case against the city, that the latter was not responsible
'for rents and revenues except whilst in actual possession of
the property; and as the city had sold off the greatest portion
of the Blanc tract, and had only retained possession of the
square on which the drainage machine was located and four
other vacant squares, a reference was ordered to ascertain the
amount of rents and revenues derived from those portions and
from the residue of the whole tract whilst it remained in the
city's hands. The master estimated the rents and revenues
derived from the drainage machine in several different ways,
resulting in different amounts, the lowest being $2400 a year
for the preceding 35 years, which, with interest and after deducting expense of repairs, amounted to $125,266.79. He

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

further reported that no rents or revenues were derived from
the four vacant squares or from the residue of the property
whilst in the city's possession. A decree was rendered for the
amount reported, and was afterwards affirmed by this court
in the case of New Orleans v. Gaines, 15 Wall. 624. The
principle established in that case, that the city was not responsible for rents and revenues except during the time of its
actual possession, will have a bearing on one of the branches
of the present case hereafter considered.
After the settlement of Mrs. Gaines's general claim in her
favor in the cases of Gainesv. Hennen, Gainesv. Iew Or'leans,
and Gaines v. De la Croix, she commenced other suits against
the actual possessors of the property of Daniel Clark. On the
22d of INovember, 1865, she filed a bill against P. H[. lonsseaux and over 190 other persons alleged to be in possession of
various lots that belonged to said Clark, including portions of
the Blanc tract sold to the city as aforesaid. On the 12th of
February, 1870, she filed another bill against P. F. Agnelly
and over 300 other persons alleged to be in possession of other
lots belonging to said Clark, including other portions of the
Blanc tract. On the 30th of April, 1877, decrees were entered
in these suits in accordance with the previous decisions, and
references were made to a master to ascertain the amount of
rents and revenues due from the various parties. In the former case rents and revenues were reported to be due from 103
different parties occupying lots on the Daniel Clark portion of
the Blanc tract, amounting in the aggregate to $471,836.54; il"
the latter case rents and revenues were reported due from 38
different parties occupying lots on said tract, amounting in the
aggregate to $45,212.80. The total of both was $517,049.31.
These sums included interest to the time of the accounting in
each case, at different dates in the years 1877, 1878 and 1879.
The property was generally improved property, and the parties were charged for the time they occupied it the full amount
of rents and revenues received or that might have been received. These amounts with interest, continued to January
10, 1881, were included, without alteration, in the decree in
the present case. They were regarded as in the nature of res
judicata.

N EW ORLEAINS v. GADITES.
Argmnent for Appellant.

There was another suit determined by the Circuit Court at
the same time with those just referred to. This was the case
of Xoseph Fuentes and 74 other persons, including the City of
.rew Orleans v. .'s. Gaines, instituted May 27, 1869, in the
Probate Court of New Orleans, to revoke the will of 1813,
and to recall the probate thereof. Mrs. Gaines applied to remove the case to the Circuit Court of the United States, but
the state court, as before stated, refused to relinquish jurisdiction, and on the 4th of December, 1871, rendered a decree revoking the probate of that will. This decree was affirmed in
February, 1873, in a very elaborate opinion by the Supreme
Court of Louisiana; but the decree of that court was reyersed
by this court in March, 1876, on the ground that the case
should have been removed. Gaines v. .Fuentes, 92 U. S. 10.
The Circuit Court afterwards, on the 30th of April, 1877, rendered a decree to the effect that the will was duly probated by
the Louisiana court, in 1855, and upon sufficient legal and
truthful testimony.
Finally, the present suit was commenced by a bill ified August 7th, 1879, as before stated, for the purpose of compelling
the city of New Orleans to respond for all the rents, fruits, revenues and profits of the whole 135 arpents of Clark's land purchased of Evariste Blanc in 1834, from the time of such purchase
until the time of bringing the suit, except those which had
been accounted for in the suit of Gaines v. City of .New Orleans, before referred to.
.Mr. Heny 0. 3filler and Ar. £ R. BeckwitA for appellant.
L There is no equity jurisdiction to compel a unilateral account when there are no offsets or items to be charged, discharged or surcharged, nor to compute .damages for alleged
torts. Hipp v. Babin, 19 How. 271; Root v. Railway Co.,
105 U. S. 189 ; Ellis v. Davis, 109 U. S. 485; Gaines v. Xiller, 111 U. S. 395; *an TFeel v. lFooston, 115 U. S. 228;
Buzard v. Houston, 119 U. S. 347; Parkersburg v. Brown,
106 U. S. 487 ; Ambler v. L-oteau, 107 U. S. 586 ; L-itchfeld v.
Ballau, 114 U. S. 190. In such case the defendant has a con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appelant.

stitutional right to a trial by jury. Insurance Co. v. Bailey,
13 Wall. 616; Grand Chute v. Vinegar, 15 Wall. 355; Lewis
v. Cocks, 23 Wall. 466; Killian v. Ebbinghaus, 110 U. S. 568;
New York Guarantee Co. v. .Memphis Water Co., 107 U. S. 205;
Francis v. fl-inn, 118 U. S. 385; United States v. Wilson, 118
7U. S. 86 ; -Fussellv. -Gregg, 113 U. S. 550.
II. Equity will not deal with an account simply because it
is complicated; to sustain a bill for an account there must be
mutual demands: not a single matter involved, but a series
of transactions on the one side, and payments on the other.
Porter v. Spencer, 2 Johns. Oh. 179; Badger v. .McIvamara,
123 Mass. 117; Walker v. Brooks, 125 Mass. 24,1; Ball v.
Carew, 13 Pick. 28; Dinwiddie v. Bailey, 6 Yes. 136; Bailey
v. Taylor, 1 Russ. & My] n. 73 ; Ambrose v. Dunmow, 9 Beavan,
508; Padwick v. Stanley, 9 Hare, 627; H~emings v. Pugh, 4
Giff. 456. A bill will not lie for a mere money demand, which
can be perfectly well ascertained at law. H~olmes v. Eastern
CountiesRailway, 3 Kay & Johns. 675; Dartez v. Clemens, 6
,Beavan, 165; O'.Mahony v. Dickson, 2 Sch. & Lef. 400. Complication of accounts, where the receipts or items are all on
one side, if ever sufficient ground for intervention of equity,
must show a very strong case of entanglement. Foley v. Hill,
1 Phillips Ch. 399.
III. Where there is an effort to give equity jurisdiction by
a general charge that accounts were intricate, and cannot be
taken without the aid of equity, the bill must disclose circumstances and facts showing the intricacy of the account, or the
bill will be dismissed. Bowles v. Orr, 1. Younge & Coll. 464;
Paduick v. Hurst,418 Beavan, 575; _Yorris v. Day, 4 Younge
& Coll. Ex. Eq. 475; Jones v. .anud, 3 Younge & Coll.
Ex. Eq. 347; Phillips v. Phillips, 9 Hare, 471; Glenie v.
Irri, 3 Younge & Coll. Ex. Eq. 432; Fluker v. Taylor, 3
Drewry, 183; Ranger v. G Ieat Western Railway Co., 5 H. L.
Cas. 72.
IV. A bill in equity cannot be maintained for discovery if
it cannot be maintained for relief, unless the bill shows the
discovery to be in aid of a suit at law or the defence of a suit
at law, actually pending or about to be brought and the action

NEW ORLEANS v. GAIhES.
Argument for Appellant.

or defence not frivolous. Brown v. Swan, 10 Pet. 497; (in
this case the doctrine is elaborately considered;) -Mitchellv.
Green, 10 Met. 101; Pool v. Lloyd, 5 Met. 525; Ahrend v.
Odiorne, 118 Mass. 261; Walker v. Brooks, 125 Mass. 241;
Haskins v. Burr, 106 Mass. 48; Dun v. Coates, 1 Atk. 287;
Anon. 2 Yes. Sen. 451; Gelston, v. Hoyt, 1 Johns. Oh. 547,
548. It is doubtful if a bill of discovery can be maintained
.since parties can be examined as witnesses. Heath v. Ei-ie
Railway Co., 9 Blatchford, 316.
V. A bill against a corporation as sole defendant, or a bill
that. waives answer under oath, is not a bill for discovery.
Huntington v. Saunders, 120 U. S. 78 ; United States v. Wagner, L. R. 2 Ch. 582; Republic of Liberiav. Roye, 1 App. Cas.
139; Republic of Costa Rica v. Erlinger, L. R. 19 Ex. 33;
Republic of Peru v. Wegeins, L. R. 20 Eq. 140.
VI. R s Judicata bears upon parties and all those in privity, and is not only conclusive as to all matters that have
been drawn into the controversy between them in a former
judicial controversy, but also conclusive as to all matters that
might have been litigated in the prior litigation. Packet Co.
v. Sickles, 6 Wall. 592; -Hopkinsv. Zee, 6 Wheat. 109; United
States Bank v. Beverly, 1 How. 134; Chapman v. Smith, 16
How. 114; Thompson v. Roberts, 24 How. 233; Campbell v.
Rankin, 99 U. S. 261; Baird v. United States, 96 U. S. 430;
Aurora v. West, 7 Wall. 82; The Appollon, 9 Wheat. 362;
Durant v. Essex Co., 7 Wall. 107; Tashville &c. Railway v.
United States, 113 U. S. 261; Ilebburn v. Dunlop, 1 Wheat.
179; Ballance v. Forsyth, 24 How. 183; Beloit v. Morgan, 7
Wall. 619; Gould v. Evansville dc. Railroad Co., 91 U. S. 526;
Whiteside v. Haselton, 110 U. S. 296; Corcoran v. Ches. &
Ohio Canal Co., 94 U. S. 741; Bryan v. -Kennett,113 U. S. 179;
United States v. Parker,120 U. S. 89; Cofey v. United States,
116 U. S. 436. This'is also the established jurisprudence in all
of the States.
V I. Under the statute law of Louisiana, a plaintiff cannot
split up a cause of action and sue in detail or detachments.
Articles 91 and.156 of the Louisiana Code of Practice have
been in continuous force since 1825, long before Mrs. Gaines

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Argument for Appellant.

commenced any litigation as heir of Clark. Article 91 relates
to the jurisdiction of the court as to amount, and ends in its
last paragraph: "But if one in order to give jurisdiction to
a judge, demand a sum below that which is really due him,
he shall be presumed to have remitted the overplus, and
after having obtained judgment for the sum he had claimed,
he shall lose all right of action for that overplus." It may
be claimed that this article is special and applies only to
cases where the plaintiff has abated his demand in order to
give jurisdiction to a particular court. If this is true, still
Article 156 is conclusive. That article is as follows: "If
one demand less than is due him, and do not amend his
petition in order to augment his demand, he shall lose the
overplus." Both of these articles have received judicial construction by the Supreme Court of the State. Mie Caleb v.
Estate of Fluker, 14 La. Ann. 316; Brandagee v. Chamberlain, 2 Rob. La. 207; Vascocu's Widow v. Pavie,14 La. 135.
It will not be disputed that this is a firmly established part of
the law of remedy in Louisiana, and has been in full force and
operation since 1825.
The rule as stated in Article 156 is exactly the rule that
has always prevailed both in equity and common law courts.
Rockwell v. Langley, 19 Penn. St. 502; Smith v. Weeks, 26
Barb. 463; Fulton v. 21atthews, 15 Johns. 432; S. C. 8 Am.
Dec. 261; Weckersham v. Whedon, 33 Missouri, 561; Stein v.
Steamboat, 17 Ohio St. 4,71; S. C. 93 Am. Dec. 631; Barksdale v: Greene, 29 Georgia, 418; Rogers v. Higgins, 57 Illinois,
244.
-VIII. "The sale of a thing belonging to another person is
null. It may give rise to an action for damages in case of
eviction when the buyer knew not that the thing belonged to
another person." This rule, as construed in Louisiana, refuses
damages in case of eviction where the buyer knew the thing
did not belong to the vendor: Jeannin v. 3lilluadon, 5 Rob.
La. 76; Hall v. 2'evill, 3 La. Ann. 326; Scott v. Featherston,
5 La. Ann. 306; _Sash v. Johnston, 9 Rob. La. 8.
IX. Daniel Clark's will of 1811, after its- probate, was a
muniment of title warranting possession by the occupants of
the Blanc tract until it was set aside by the probate of the

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged will of 1813. -Davis v. Gaines, 104 U. S. 386; Allen
v. .D ndas, 3 T. R. 125; Rex v. Vincent, 1 Strange, 481; Woolley v. Clark, 5 B. & Ald. '744; Packman's Case, 6 Rep. 19;
Simene v. Simene, 1 Lev. 3d. ed. 90; Thomson v. Harding, 2
El. & B. 630; Parkerv. -ett, 1 Ld. Raym. 658; Waters v.
Stickney, 12 Allen, 1; S. C. 90 Am. Dec. 122; Zittridge v.
Folsom, 8 N. H. 98; Stone v. Peasley's Estate, 28 Vermont,
716; Steele v. Renn, 50 Texas, 467.
X. A warrantor, who is not in possession, in the event of
recovery on the covenant of warranty, only owes interest from
judicial demand if the amount is liquidated, or from judgment if the amount is unliquidated. 7kfelaneon's Heirs v.
Robichaud's Heirs, 19 La. 357; Daquin v. Coiron, 3 La. 387;
Connolly v. Bertrand, 12 La. 313; Herman v. Sprigg, 3 Martin

(N. S.) 19o.
XI. The warrantee has no right of action against the warrantor until the warrantee ii actually out of possession. The
return of a writ of possession to which the warrantor is not
a party is not adequate proof of actual eviction in a suit on
the covenant of warranty. Hralev. NTew Orleans,13 La. Ann.
499 ; .felangon's Heirs v. Duhamel, 7 La. 286 ; Fletcher's Heirs
v. Carglier,10 La. 120; -Labordev. -few Orleans, 13 La. Ann.
326.
XII. The owner of realty, after eviction of adverse holder,
has no action against the vendor of the evicted for rents and
profits. Gillaspie v. Citizen's Bank, 35 La. Ann. 779.
MAr. John A. Campbell, .2r. Thomas
Af'red Goldthwaite for appellees.

. Semmes and .Mr.

AIR. JJSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant's claim in this suit is that the city of New
Orleans, as unlawful possessor and vendor of the property, is
primarily responsible in the same manner and to the same extent as it would have been if it had never sold any part of it,
but had remained in possession-of the whole from the time of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

its purchase to the present time. The argument is, that the
city, as vendor, put its grantees into possession, and thus enabled them to keep the complainant out of possession, and
is, therefore, responsible as principal, and not merely as surety
or guarantor of its grantees ; - although the latter position is
also assumed. Its liability as principal is asserted as a fundamental proposition on which the case may be safely rested.
Another principle invoked and applied is, that, inasmuch as
the city of New Orleans claimed the property under the sale
of Relf and Chew, although claiming it through the medium
of Evariste Blanc, it was a possessor in bad faith, and, as
such, accountable, not only for the rents and revenues actually
received, but for all that might have been received by. the
most provident management of the property.
The manner in which these assumed principles of law have
been applied by the court below in the disposition of the case
will be considered hereafter.
As already stated, the amount of the decree pronounced
against the city was $1,925,661.83, of which $1,348,959.91 were
for rents and revenues of unimproved property. The remainder, $576,707.92, was for rents and revenues of improved and
unimproved property found due from the defendants in the
suits of Gaines v. -Honsseaux et al. and Gaines v. Agnelly et
al., before referred to; the amount being somewhat increased
by additional interest. The parties in those cases relied on
the city to protect them, and appear to have let things take
pretty much their own course.
As the complainant was allowed, in her first suit against
the city of New Orleans, before referred to, to recover all
rents and revenues received by the city from each portion of
the Blanc tract, derived from Clark's estate whilst it was in
possession thereof, the complainant, in her claim before the
master in the present case, waived all rents and revenues arising from the tract prior to 'March 10, 1837, the time when the
auction sale was made as before mentioned; but claimed that
there had been no adjudication or recovery against the city
for any such rents and revenues after that date, except for the
five squares referred to in that former suit; and hence she

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

claimed an account for all rents and revenues accruing after
the 10th of :Nfarch, 1837, except with regard to the said five

squares, and some few other lots specially designated, which
do not require attention here.
The master, therefore, in taking his account, assumed that
no account of rents and revenues had ever been rendered by
the city after the said 10th day of March, 1837, except as
aforesaid, and proceeded to charge it with the entire rents and
revenues of all the land in the whole tract, (except as aforesaid,) from the said date to the time of making the report,
without regard to the question whether the city or its grantees
were in actual possession or not.. The rents and revenues thus
charged against the city for unimproved land were not rents
and revenues actually received, but fictitious rents and revenues, assessed at the rate of five per cent per annum on 70 per
cent of the amount of the inflated sales of 1837, with interest
thereon to the time of making the report, that being what the
master deemed a fair equivalent of what the property ought
to have produced. We shall see hereafter that the court
added to this estimate interest on the other 30 per cent of the
amount of said sales.
From the reports of the master we are led to understand
that the amounts found due from the defendants in the other
suits, aggregating, with interest, $576,707.92, as above stated,
were estimated and made up on the same principles which
were followed with regard to the unimproved property; not
by taking merely the actual rents and revenues received, but
adding thereto fictitious amounts which it was supposed might
have been received by provident management, and by interest
on hypothetical values in the absence of other evidence of
income.
Now, in relation to the principles before- referred to, on
which the complainant contends that her case may be rested,
and which the court seems to have adopted, we have the following observations to make. The first proposition is that the
city of New Orleans is primarily liable for all the rents and
revenues of the entire tract derived from the Clark estate and
purchased from Evariste Blanc, for the entire period since
VOL. C.12=-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

1837, down to the time of the depree. Leaving out of view,
for the present, the secondary liability to which the city may
be equitably" bound to respond on its warranty of title to its
grantees, is it true, in point of law, that the city is primarily
liable in the manner above stated, with regard both to the
time when it had possession itself, and also to the time when
its grantees had the possession? The contrary of this proposition was distinctly decided by the Circuit Court in the case
of Gaines v. J~ew Orleans, and its decision was affirmed by
this court in -New Orleans v. Gaines,15 Wall. 624. It is true
that the complainant acquiesced in the decision of the Circuit
Court in that case, and did not appeal; but that only left the
decision standing as a precedent against her, all the more
effective for such acquiescence.
The common law, certainly, does not recognize any such rule
as that contended for. The person who receives the rents and
profits is the only person who is to respond for them. It was
,even made a question in Doe v. Harlow, 12 Ad. & El. 40, and
in Doe v. Challis, 17 Q. B. 166, whether the landlord of a
tenant in possession was liable for mesne profits. After argument it was decided that he was. But the reason of this is
obvious: the tenant's possession is the possession of his landlord. It is true that, by the ancient law, where there was an
entire disseisin, the estate was deemed out of the disseisee for
the time being, and no intrusion upon the land was a trespass
against him; and, therefore, a grantee of the disseisor, or a
second disseisor, was not responsible to the true owner at all,
who had to look to his immediate disseisor for damages in an
assize. Hobart, 98. But the modern action for mesne profits
only lies against the tenant in possession who is cast in an action of ejectment; and where no ejectment has been brought,
the actual -trespasser on the land is the person amenable to an
action of -trespass quare clausun fregit, or assumpsit for use
and occupation, where the trespass is waived.
The present case, however, is not to be. decided by the rules
of the common law. The counsel for the complainant relies
on the French or civil law to sustain his position. But no
case ig cited to show.that the rule contended for has ever been

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

adopted in Louisiana. On the contrary, there is a very recent
case which decides the contrary. We refer to Gilla&pie v.
Citizen's .Bank,35 La. Ann. '779. In that case the bank had
foreclosed a mortgage and bought in the property, and after
three or four years' possession sold it to a third person. Afore
than a year after this sale, a suit was brought by a guardian
of minor children interested in the land, for a nullity of the
sale on foreclosure, and judgment of nullity was rendered and
the sale was set aside, on the ground that in the executory
process of the bank two of the joint owners of the property
had not been made parties. A suit was then brought against
the bank to recover the minors' share of the fruits and rents
from the time of the sale under the foreclosure, including the
time that the grantee, or vendee, of the bank had possession,
as well as that in which the bank itself had possession. The
Supreme Court of Louisiana held that this could not be done;
that it *as a familiar rule of their jurisprudence, that "the
possessor alone can be held liable to account for rents and revenues"; and, therefore, that the right of the plaintiff to
demand rents and revenues against the bank must be restricted
to the time it was in possession. This case is conclusive against
the complainants' contention as to the primary liability of the
city, except for the actual time when the city was in possession.
The only plausible ground on which the city can be made
responsible for rents and revenues received by its grantees is
that of subrogation, by which the real owner whose title has
been judicially established, after pursuing the grantee in ppssession, and reducing his or her demand against such possessor
into judgment, may take the place of such grantee and possessor in suing the grantor, who is under obligation to protect
and indemnify such grantee. Can this be done in the present
case? The grantees have been sued; judgment has been obtained against them; the city was sufficiently notified of the
prosecution to be bound by the result as guarantor; indeed,
the city practically conducted the defences. The complainant
in her bill alleges, and it is proved, that the defendants in those
suits have demanded of the city that it pay or settle the said

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

judgments and protect them therefrom. The complainant also
alleges in her bill that the said defendants are unable to pay
the said judgments, except through the aid of the city.
Under these circumstances, the grantees who have lost their
property, and who have thus been made liable in judgments
for the rents and revenues, might themselves, before satisfying
such judgments, have maintained a suit in equity against their
guarantor, the city of New Orleans, to protect them from the
adjudged liability to pay. An action at law would not lie
until actual payment; but equity would regard it the duty of
the guarantor to protect the grantee from the extreme hardship
of having to pay that which the guarantor himself ought to
pay, it being the law of Louisiana that a person evicted from
property conveyed to him with warranty may recover from
his warrantor not only the price, but the amount of rents and
revenues, which he is bound to respond for to the true owner.
As between the city and its grantee, the former, By reason
of its guaranty of title, is reilly the principal debtor, and
bound to protect the grantee as a principal is bound to protect
his surety. Therefore the grantee is entitled to such remedies
as a surety hath; and when fixed by judgment, if not before,
may file a bill against his guarantor to protect him. Lord
Redesdale says: ' A court of equity will also prevent injury
in some cases by interposing before any actual injury has been
suffered, by a bill which has been sometimes called a bill guia
timet, in analogy to proceedings at the common law, where in
some cases a writ may be maintained before any molestation,
distress, or impleading. Thus a surety may file a bill to compel the debtor on a bond in which he has joined to pay the
debt when due, whether the surety has been actually sued for
it or not; and upon a covenant to save harmless, a bill may be
filed to relieve the covenantee under similar circumstances."
lRedesdale's Treatise, 148, 4th ed.; and see Ranelaugh v.
.Hayes, 1 Vernon, 189, 190; Lee v. Book, M,osely, 318; TFooldridge v. NYorris, L. R. 6 Eq. 410; .Marsh v. Pike, 10 Paige, 595,
597; Taylor v. fferiot, 4 Desaussure, 227; Fell on Guaranties,
2417; De Colyar on Guaranties, 308, c. 5, Amer. ed. In Lee v.
Book, the Master of the Rolls said: "If I borrow money on a

NEW ORLEANS v. GAINES.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgage of my estate for another, I may come into equity
(as every surety may against his principal) to have my estate
disencumbered by him."
Then, if the grantees, who have been ousted, and who are
condemned in judgment to pay to TMfrs. Gaines the rents and
revenues due to her, might have maintained a suit in equity
against the city to compel it to indemnify them, why may not
Mrs. Gaines be subrogated to the grantees' right and equally
maintain a suit against the city ? The claim is an equitable
one. It is in proof that all the acts of sale of the city contained
express agreements of guaranty, with right of subrogation;
and an act of sale in Louisiana imports a guaranty whether it
is expressed or not.
But if the suit could not be maintained on purely equitable
grounds alone, there is a principle of the civil law obtaining
in Louisiana, by the aid of which there can be no doubt of its
being maintainable. The Code Napol6on had an article (Art.
1166) expressly declaring that creditors may exercise all the
rights and actions of their debtDr, with the exception of those
that are exclusively attached to the person. It is true that the
Louisiana Code has no such article; but it is laid down by
writers of authority that this principle prevails in French
jurisprudence without the aid of any positive law. 43 Dalloz,
239, etc.; title Vente, Arts. 932-935. The decisions to the
contrary seem to be greatly outweighed by other decisions and
by sound doctrine. The right thus claimed for the creditor
(the word creditor being used in its large sense, as in the civil
law) may very properly be pursued in a suit in equity, since
it could not be pursued in an action at law in the courts of the
United States; and all existing rights in any State of the
Union ought to be suable in some form in those courts.
We think, therefore, that this part of the decree, amounting
to the sum of 8576,707.92, with accruing interest, being for
the amount of the judgments obtained in the other suits, ought
to be allowed, unless subject to reduction for the cause hereafter referred to.
As to the remainder of the decree, amounting to $1,348,959.91, being for rents and revenues and "value for use,"

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

as the master calls it, of the unimproved land, we cannot concur in the decision of the Circuit Court. We think that that
sum is made up and arrived at by a method entirely too
unsafe and unreliable. It being conceded that the city or its
grantees actually derived no rents or revenues at all from
the property, the former is charged, instead, with interest, in
many cases, for more than forty years, on a false and inflated
valuation, based on the sales of 1837 which were never carried
out, and never could be, and, in addition, with interest upon
that interest. It seems to us an enormous charge. It cannot
be reasonable or sound. The land was a waste, a wilderness,
and much of it a swamp. It probably never would have had
any material value but for the draining operations instituted
and carried on by the city on a portion of it. The sales in
1837 were made at a time of public frenzy. One of the witnesses, who had been a deputy sheriff, being asked if he knew
at what price real estate sold in 1837, said: "I was at the time
in a notary's office with my uncle; and I remember it was a
kind of frenzy. You could hardly buy a lot without being
offered triple the price for it. Lawyers made fortunes by it,
like Mr. Pepin. Property behind the paper mill was sold, and
when people went there to look at [iti there was three or four
feet of water, and they paid a big price for it." Dr. Labatut
being asked in reference to the Blanc tract, testified as follows: "I know that Mr. Blanc bought it. I don't know when
it was." Being asked if he could give a description of what
'condition that property was in in 1837, he said: "It was simply a forest, had trees on it, and it was not cultivated." The
master jn his report gives the following abstract, from his
point of view, of this class of testimony. He says: "The
evidence on behalf of defendant has been chiefly directed to
the establishing of the alleged facts-that the soil so left
vacant and unimproved was not fit for use; that it would
have been money thrown away, a waste of energy and substance, even to have endeavored to do anything with it; that
for years, the end of which has hot come, it had been and was
destined to remain barren and untouched by the hands of
man; and that, therefore, complainant could take nothing on

NEW OILEANTS v. GAMES.
Opinion of the Court.

account of her 'dispossession, even though it had lasted for a
period of some forty-five years. To substantiate this view of
the case, sixteen witnesses were examined before the master,
several of whom being amongst the oldest citizens in this city.
Few of those oldest witnesses have any distinct remembrance
or knowledge of the exact locality in contest, the 'Blanc tract,'
but all remember the city when it was nothing but a marsh,
first, from Rampart back to Olaiborne Street, a distance of
six squares back from the old square or body of the city (carr6
de la vile), and then from Olaiborne back to Broad Street,
ten squares from Claiborne, Dorgenois Street, one square
from Broad towards Claiborne, being the limit of said tract
on the river side. And a few also remember that in 1837 all
of this 'Blanc tract' was swampy, frequently a huntingground for three of them, often inundated in heavy rains,
and two of them say the land was partly high and partly
low. But they all say the city has progressed since then; it
is solidly built all along the front of the tract from IRampart
to Broad, and that part of the city is well settled. Some of
the witnesses had been and are yet the owners of large tracts
or parcels of land in and around the city, and had not been
able to make anything out of them. Some had tried and had
failed to obtain revenues from a few of their squares; others
had not tried at all, deeming it beforehand a hopeless task.
One of the oldest had purchased a piece of vacant land matiy
years ago, and did not keep it long vacant, over five or six
months and built on it as soon as he could, so as to derive revenue from it. Witness did not think it produced a revenue
whilst vacant, not well remembering, but *inferring this from
the fact of his building, for, says he, when vacant property
produces a revenue you don't build on it to make it produce a
revenue. Another witness says that in the aggregate property has produced no revenue whatever since 1868, taking as
data for his opinion the decreased assessed value of property.
Another witness testified that in his opinion 2 per cent or 3
per cent is all that improved real estate could produce here;
that this was also the opinion he had heard expressed years
ago by agents of extensive land property; that so it was in

:

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

his case when abroad some thirty-five years a'go, his property
being attended to by an agent, but that when he returned home
and mafiaged for himself he did a little better. Another witness was agent for several years of a large estate, and is so
yet, there being in that estate a piece of ground on the outskirts of the city covering over five hundred acres, with good
outbuildings and dwelling-house, which did not bring over
$600 per year, though it brought at one time, after the war,
S2400 per annum; but when asked if it had ever been used or
attempted to be used as city property, answers in the negative. His principal had owned a piece of land in this ' Blanc
tract,' but had never attempted to make it produce a revenue
on account of the pending suit in eviction, and he adds that
even without the suit in eviction nothing could have been
made out of it, because vacant property is not wanted by anybody. Another says that the squares of this tract, from Broad
along Canal Carondelet are worth nothing at all; but that all
of this land, even along the Canal Carondelet, was salable
from 1860 to 1810, provided there was nothing of Gaines's
claim on them; and that, for seven or eight years, no vacant
ground, high or low, can, in witness' opinion, be rented in this
city. Another says there was no diligence by which the owner
of vacant property in the Gaines claim could have made it produce a revenue without improving it. Two of the witnesses
dtate that this property, as all low lands in this city, needed
ditching as well as artificial drainage in order that it might be
built upon; and one of them, that this tract began to be
drained artificially by machinery about the time of its .purchase by the city. And the preceding witness, who states that
the vacant property in the Gaines claim could not yield a revenue without improvements - would be too expensive, and
that he would not make them on any one square for its ownership. The great inflation of the price of real estate in this
city in 1837 was also testified to by several of the witnesses,
together with the disastrous effect of the panic of that year in
depreciating the value of property."
Notwithstanding this evidence, and a great deal more to
thQ same purport, the master reasoned that, because somge

NEW ORLEANS v. GAII\TES.
Opinion of the Court.

people improved their land and obtained good revenues from
it, the city, or its grantees, might have done the same; and
that a possessor in bad faith is chargeable with all that can be
made out of the property. We think that there are two
errors in this reasoning. First, it does not follow that because
small parcels of land in the suburbs of the city may be made
profitable by cultivation and improvement, therefore the whole
suburbs can be turned to account in the same way. There are
hundreds of acres in the vicinity of Washington, for example,
lying open and in common. A German gardener may purchase
a small lot, and by his industry make it produce a large revenue; and another might erect a saloon and get a reasonable
custom. But it would be impossible to convert the entire
suburbs, consisting, perhaps, of more than a thousand acres,
into market gardens and beer saloons, or to build cottages or
rows of houses on them to any advantage. The small examples are exceptions. Large outlying tracts have to abide the
natural growth and spread of the city. They may lie unproductive in the hands of the most provident men for years.
Another error made by the master, and by the court, is, as
to the extent to which the rule is to be carried, that a possessor in bad faith is bound to respond for all that the property
possessed can be made to produce. We do not understand
that this rule requires a possessor to change the state of the
property. Suppose, for example, a large tract of land is wild,
mostly forest, and might be made to produce immense yields
of grain and produce if it were cleared of timber and broken
up and cultivated. Is the possessor in bad faith - only technically such perhaps -bound to respond to the true owner,
on recovery, for the thousands of bushels of wheat and corn
and other produce that might have been raised on the land?
Is it the duty of a possessor, even a possessor in bad faith, to
change the state of the- land from wild land to cultivated,
farming land, for example, or to open and work mines of iron
or copper or gold, so as to make as much out of the land as
can be made out of it, and hand it over to the true owner?
Does any such principle as this prevail in the law? We think
not. The estimation of such undeveloped revenues is alto-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

gether too speculative a matter. It is true, the master does
not enter into an account of what might have been, but, under
the idea that a great deal might have been made out of the
land, assumes the arbitrary basis of the crazy prices of 1837,
and charges the city with the interest on them, and interest
on that interest; and no wonder that the decree is swelled up
to nearly two millions of dollars.
The truth is, that there are degrees of bad faith. There
are some possessors who, without any title at all, pertinaciously keep the true and known owner out of possession.
They may be properly called knavish possessors. There are
others who take a conveyance and go into possession in entire
ignorance of any defect in their title, though they are technically possessors in bad faith, because by proper inquiry they
might have discovered the defect. Such possessors, certainly,
cannot be placed on the same level with the knavish and
fraudulent possessors of whom we have just spoken. In the
case of Donaldson et al. v. .ull, 7 Martin (N. S.) 112, 113,
Judge Martin, delivering the opinion of the court in a case of
mere technical possession in bad faith, said: "The case appears peculiarly a hard one, as the defendant bought in moral
good faith, with the knowledge of the only one of the plaintiffs who was of age, and from the aunts of all of them, who
had been selected by their mother to protect their interests
after her death, and as the plaintiff who was of age received
from him her part of the price. It is to be lamented that the
law imposes on courts of justice the obligation of decreeing
the restoration of the value of the services of slaves against a
possessor who has fairly paid a full price for them, while it
authorizes them to do no more in the case of a dishonest
holder, who has taken them in possession without paying anything for them. But on assessing the value of the services
which a defendant is to be decreed to restore, we think the
same rule ought not to prevail. In assessing damages for
their detention, the good faith or dishonest conduct of a defendant should influence us; and if justice demands vindictive
damages in the latter case, it prescribes a just moderation in
the former. The plaintiff must not receive more than he
would if he had been in possession."

NEW ORLEA.S ,v. GAINES.
,Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, notwithstanding the strong language
which has been applied to the city of New Orleans in resisting so perseveringly the claims of Mr. Gaines, we cannot but
express our conviction that those claims have been opposed in
entire good faith. When the city purchased the land, no one
dreamed of any defect in the title. Only one will was known,
and by that will Mary Clark, the mother of the testator, was
made universal heir and legatee. She had accepted the heirship; her giving a power of attorney to sell the lands of the
estate indicated that; and her subsequent conduct all went to
the same point. Mrs. Gaines, in her first bill, alleged that
Mfary Clark had accepted the inheritance and taken possession. Why should any one have doubted of the title? Nevertheless, a majority of this court has held that the vice in the
title ought to have been known to the purchaser. We abide
by that decision, but we cannot shut our eyes to the fact that
it was not a moral but a mere technical failure of duty on
the part of the purchaser not to have discovered a defect in
the title.
Then the evidence to sustain the claims of Mrs. Gaines
was so full of obscurities and improbabilities that a possessor
of land purchased from the representatives of Daniel Clark
could not be blamed for not giving it credence, and for resisting her suits to the utmost. We have given an outline of the
history of her litigation for the purpose of showing how great
reason the parties attacked in their possessions had to defend
themselves with vigor. A full report of the evidence would
have shown it still more strongly. We cannot blame them
for making resistance. Although bound by the decisions that
have been made by this court in the matter, we cannot say,
and no one can say, that there was not much evidence of a
very strong character in favor of a contrary conclusion.
In our judgment, there was no sufficient evidence that any
rents or revenues were derived from the unimproved lands,
either by the city of New Orleans, or by its grantees; and
that part of the decree which is based on such supposed rents
and revenues, amounting to $1,348,959.91, must be disallowed,
and the bill must be dismissed with regard thereto.

