MARSHALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

21r. Eugene Williams for both petitions.
MmR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Leave to file a motion for rehearing in this case is asked for
on the ground of clerical error in the opinion. A motion for
rehearing was made at the last term upon precisely the same
brief now sought to be filed, and notwithstanding the alleged
misconception in the opinion of the point made by the plaintiff in error, the court was satisfied with the conclusion it had
reached, and that no modification of the judgment was required, and no rehearing was necessary or called for. The
motion was therefore denied. The persistent renewal of the
application at this time, after the close of the term at which
judgment was rendered, and especially upon the same reasons
once overruled, is not in order, and does not recommend itself
to the favorable consideration of the court.

MARSHALL

. UNITED STATES.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF OLAMS.
No. 57. Argued November 1,1888. -Decided

November 19, 1888.

Marshall v. United States, 124 U. S. 391, is affirmed on rehearing.

Tis case was heard at October Term 1887, and the judgment below was affirmed. 124: U. S. 391. A petition for
rehearing was granted April 30, 1888, 127 U. S. 786, and the
cause was reargued at this term.
.Mr. V. 1). .Davidgefor appellants.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Howard for appellees.
MIR. CHIEF JusTicE FULLER, on the 19th of November, 1888,
announced that a majority of the court adhered to the views
expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan in the opinion of the court
in this case delivered at the last term, affirming the judgment
of the Court of Claims.

Afflrmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for the Motion.

:MR. JUSTICE HARLAN stated that he now believed that that
opinion was wrong and that he dissented from the judgment
of the court.

RADFORD v. FOLSOM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 1014. Submitted November 5, 1888.-Decided November 26, 1888.

The final decree in a suit in equity, entered October 10, 1885, adjudged and
decreed that there was due to the administratrix of J. F. a sum named in
the decree, and that if, within ninety days from that date the court should
be satisfied that a certain other sum named as paid for the purchase of
notes, etc., had inured to the benefit of J. F. or his estate, that sum
should be credited on the amount so decreed to be paid; Held, that for
the purpose of an appeal the date of the decree was October 10, 1885.

Tins was a motion made by the administratrix of Jeremiah
Folsom, deceased, to dismiss an appeal. The reasons for the
dismissal, given in the motion were:
"That the decree appealed from was made and entered of
record in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa, Western Division, on the 10th day of October, 1885;
"That the appeal in the above entitled cause was not taken
until the 30th day of December, 1887, more than two years
after the entry of the decree, as aforesaid."
.Ar.
H. ,Tpi'nble
and -Yr. Joseph G. Anderson for the
motion, submitted on their brief.
This motion is based on ยง 1008 of the Revised Statutes, providing that no decree of a Circuit Court, in equity, shall be
reviewed in the Supreme Court on appeal unless the appeal is
taken within two years after the entry of such decree. That
the appeal in this case was taken more than two years after
the entry of the decree is plain. The decree was entered

