SPALDING v.

AKAISSE.

Opinion of the Court.

by the subsequent pleadings, were cured by the verdict, which
must be assumed to have proceeded upon proof of facts which
justified it; and, as it is apparent that the writ of error could
only have been sued out for purposes of delay, the judgment is
Ajfrmefd with M,2er cent damage, interest and costs.

SPALDING v. MANASSE.

SAME v. SAME.
SAME v. VANACKER.
SAME v. SAME.
SAAE v. YANADA.
SAME v. FARWELL.
SAME v. COHN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

N ORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 278, 279, 280, 281, 2S2, 284, 285. Argued April 25, 18S9.-Decided May 13,1889.

No error can be examined in the rulings of the court at the trial of a cause
by the court without a jury by agreement of parties, if there is no allegation in the record that the stipulation was in writing, as required by
the statute. Bond v. Dustin, 112 U. S. 604, and Dundee Mortgage Co. v.
Hughes, 124 U. S. 157, followed.

THESE were suits against a collector of customs to recover
back duties paid under protest. Judgment in each case for
plaintiff, to which defendant sued out a writ of error. The
case is stated in the opinion.
.M'.
Assistant Attorney General Mlawuy for plaintiff in error
in each case.
.Xr. Percy L. B1uman for defendants in error.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

court.
VOL. CXXXI-5

FULLER delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Counsel fdr Parties.

All of these cases were tried by the court without a jury,
by agreement of the parties, as alleged in the record; but
there is no allegation that the stipulation was in writing, as
required by the statute; and, under the ruling in Bond v.
Dustin, 112 U. S. 60-, and .Dundee .Mortgage Com,patny v.
Hghes, 124-U. S. 157, no error can be examined in the rulings
of the court at the trial. We can only inquire whether the
declarations were respectively sufficient to sustain the judgments. As there appears to be no error in this regard, the
judgments are severally

.4jirmed.

ABENDROTH v. VAN DOLSEN.
ERROR TO THE CITY COURT OF NEW YORK.
No. 229. Argued April 12,13, 1889. - Decided May 13, 1889.

The connection of the plaintiff in error with the partnership of Griffith &
Wundram was not a matter in issue in the proceedings in bankruptcy
against that firm.
An adjudication of the bankruptcy of a firm, and of the members in whose
name the firm was doing business, in a bankrupt proceeding affecting
them alone, to which a special partner was not a party, does not estop a
copartnership creditor from setting up the liability of such special partner, imposed upon him by the statute, for non-compliance with its provisions.
A special partner in a partnership, who is not a party to proceedings in
bankruptcy against the partnership and the general members of it, is not
entitled to the stay of proceedings provided for in Rev. Stat. ยง 5118, until
the question of the debtor's discharge shall have been determined.
A discharge of two generhl partners in bankruptcy cannot be set up in
favor of a special partner in an action against the tbree as general partners on the ground that the special partner has. made himself liable as
a general partner.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M'. William H Arnoux for plaintiff in error.

2r. Carlisle -Norwood,Jr., for defendants in error.

