STICKITEY v. STICKINEY.
Statement of the Case.

to act. Thompson v. United States, 103 U. S. 480, 483 ; People
v. Collins, 19 Wend. 56; State v. TFarner, 55 Wisconsin, 571.
_t follows that the writ of mandamus must issue asprayed,
directing the Supreme Court of the Territory to reinstate
the appeal ta7en to it in the case mentioned, and to proceed to the hearing thereof in the u.ual course of its

business.

STICKNEY v. STICKN-EY.
"PPEAL FROMI THE SUPREME COHT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUM IA.
No. 243. Argued April 9, 10, 189.- Decided May 13, 1889.
In a suit in equity in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia it is
competent, under the acts of Congress, for a married woman, who is a
party thereto, to disclose, as a witness, directions given by her to her
husband respecting the investment of her separate property, though she
could not be compelled to make such disclosure against her wishes.
Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. §§ 876, 877.
There is no higher presumption that a married woman in the District of
Columbia intends, by placing her separate money in the hands of her
husband, thereby to make a gift of it to him, than there is that a third
person has such intent when he in like manner deposits money with him.
16 Stat. 45, c. 23.
In the District of Columbia, whenever a husband acquires possession of the
separate property of his wife, whether with or without her consent, he
must be deemed to hold it in trust for her benefit, in the absence of any
direct evidence that she intended to make a gift of it to him.

THE court, in its opinion, stated the case as follows:
This suit was brought by the complainant below, appellee
here, Jeannie K. Stickney, widow of William Stickney, who
died in October, 1881, against certain of his heirs, to establish
,her claim as creditor for the sum of about seventy-nine thousand dollars against the estate, real and personal, held in the
name of her husband at the time of his death, and to obtain a
decree that said estate be applied to its payment, except so far
as may be necessary to discharge his just debts. Her conten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

tion is, that all that estate was acquired by her husband with
her moneys received by her as legatee under the will of her
deceased father, Amos Kendall, and which were delivered to
him to invest for her benefit and in her name, but which without her knowledge, and contrary to her directions, he used and
invested in his own name.
Complainant intermarried with William Stickney in January, 1852, and continued his wife until his death in October,
1881. They resided in the District of Columbia, and their
married life was one of mutual confidence and affection, nothing ever occurring to mar its happiness. From his marriage
to 1857 he was, the greater part of the time, a clerk in the
government service. In that year he became secretary of Mr.
Kendall, and continuet so until the latter's death in November,
1869, receiving a monthly salary of $100, or, as supposed by
one of his brothers, a yearly salary of $1500, himself and
wife living with and receiving their board from M r. Kendall.
Whilst secretary of M r. Kendall he received no salary from
any other source. He had, however, accumulated a small
amount of property, chiefly in lands, but it appears to have
been acquired from moneys or proceeds of property given to
his wife by her father, or from moneys furnished by him. It
is not, however, important for the disposition of the present
case to determine whether he had, previous to the death of Mr.
Kendall, property in his own right, and if so, the extent of it.
The question is, did he receive moneys of his wife to invest for
her benefit, which he used and invested in his own name, and,
if so, whether the estate which he left standing in his name
can be subjected to the payment of the amount thus received.
Mr. Kendall left at his death an estate worth nearly half a
million of dollars. By his will he made his four daughters
residuary legatees, and provided that payment of any debts
which might be due to him from any of theni should not be
required in money, but should be adjusted in the distribution
to them of certain specified bonds. He appointed as executors
'Mr. Stickney and Mr. Robert C. Fox, his sons-in-law. His
will was admitted to probate, and letters testamentary were
issued to them. The distributive share which came to Mrs.

STICKNEY v. STICKNEY.
Statement of the Case.

Stickney from her father's estate amounted to nearly eighty
thousand dollars in money or its equivalent. Mr. and Mrs.
Stickney had one son and to him Mrs. Stickney desired in 1879
to make a Christmas present of $1000. At her request Mr.
Stickney sent her the money for that purpose. It appears also
that Mrs. Stickney received from him at different times checks
amounting to $600. No other sum except these is shown to
have been paid by him to her of the means she received from
her father. The whole went into his hands under directions,
and with the understanding, as she asserts, that it was to be
invested by him for her benefit and in her name. When she
wanted the $1000 mentioned, she wrote to him the following
letter : -

"December 23, 1879.
"DPAn WILL: I wish ' Will' to have $1000 of the Chicago
payment for his Christmas gift. Please bring check for the
amount, and the balance invest in my name, as I have asked
you to do with all other moneys accruing from my inheritance.
"JEANIE."

The evidence that Mrs. Stickney expected that her husband
would invest her money for her benefit in her name, and that
he understood that to make such investment was his duty,
consists not merely in her declarations, but in the statements
of Stickney himself, made at different times to parties with
whom he was dealing. The instances of this kind are numerous, and in their combined force, considered with the presumption attendant on the receipt of money where there is no
relation of debtor and creditor between the parties, that the
receiver is to hold it subject to the other's order or to invest it
for his use, remove all reasonable doubt on the subject. How
far the presumptions thus raised are to be deemed rebutted by
the fact that there is no proof of any express promise on Stickney's part to comply with her request, and by her failure to
call for any account from him or statement as to the investments made, will be hereafter considered. It would seem that
the confidence in her husband prevented any suspicion that

OCTOBER TERAI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

her wishes as to the investment of her moneys had not been
respected.
The illness of which Mr. Stickney died created no apprehension 'until within a few hours before his death. He then
handed to his wife the keys to his box in the Safe Deposit
Company, with instructions to retain them and examine his
papers. . Upon their examination after his funeral, none were
found showing any property in her name; all the property
which he held stood in his own name. He died intestate,
leaving as his sole heirs and next of kin three brothers and
four children of a deceased brother, two of whom were minors.
She was appointed administratrix of his estate. The three
brothers, upon being acquainted with the situation of affairs,
and the fact that the moneys received by her from her father
had been used and invested by the deceased in his own name,
immediately relinquished to her all their claims to his estate,
by a conveyance reciting that he had left in his individual
name real and personal property acquired from the proceeds
of her sole and separate estate, and formally recognizing her
beneficial interest therein. By this conveyance Mrs. Stickney
became the owner in her own right of three-fourths of her
husband's estate absolutely, with a right of dower in the
remaining fourth of the real estate, and her distributive share
in the personalty. She thereupon, to avoid any litigation over
the property with the relatives of her husband, offered to recognize the claims of the infant children of the deceased brother,
and to make reasonable compensation to the adult children,
provided they would execute a release to her of their claims.
The adults declined to execute such a release upon those terms,
and the infants were incompetent to do so. Mrs. Stickney
accordingly filed the present bill against the four children to
determine the controversy, and the justice of her claim to be
paid out of the estate of her husband as its creditor, the
amount received by him from her separate property, after
deducting the $1600 mentioned, which she had received" from
him.
The adult children answered the bill denying the equities
claimed, and pleading the statute of limitations against their

STICKNEY v. STICKN EY.
Statement of the Case.

assertion. The minor children, by their guardians ad litem,
also answered the bill, claiming such interest in the premises
as they might be entitled to, and submitting themselves to
the protection of the court.
In October, 1882, on motion of the complainant and with the
consent of the solitors of the adult defendants and of the
guardians ad litegn of the infant defendants, the case was
referred to the auditor of the court to ascertain and report,
upon the evidence to be produced before him, among other
things, whether the complainant was a creditor of, or entitled
to repayment out of, the estate of her deceased husband, and
if so, to what amount, liberty being given to state any special
circumstances.
Much testimony was taken by the auditor, and the books
of account of the executors of the estate of Amos Kendall and
also of William Stickney were produced before him. He
reported that the proceeds of the estate of Amos Kendall
which came into the hands of his executors were from time
to time divided among the legatees, and upon the receipts of
the complainant to the executors her share was delivered to
her husband, who used and invested the same in his own name
without the knowledge of the complainant and in contravention of her express directions; that the books of William Stickney, deceased, showed in most instances the specific use made
by him of the moneys which were the share of the complainant, derived from her father's estate; that the complainant
never assented to or acquiesced in the use or investment of the
property by her husband in his own name; that she intended
to retain the apparent as well as the real ownership, the nominal as well as the equitable right; and that he considered
himself as her trustee and proclaimed himself as such. The
auditor, in applying the act of Congress passed on the 10th of
April, 1869, commonly known as the Married Woman's Act,
to the facts of the case, held that Mr. Stickney received the
moneys as her agent and trustee, and was liable to account to
her as such. and that no appropriation or investment by him
without authority from her relieved him from such accountability. He reported also that the amount which Mr. Stickney

2 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

had received of the moneys belonging to her from her father's
estate was $79,971.13, from which he deducted the $1600 mentioned, and found a balance due to her of $78,371.13.
To the plea of the statute of limitations, which was urged
by the defendants in bar of the complainant's claim, the auditor replied that there were several answers: first, the complainant's disability by reason of her coverture; second, the
character of the indebtedness, which had its origin in a relation of trust; and, third, that not until the death of her husband did she discover that her property was not invested or
held in her own name. He, therefore, reported that the complainant was a creditor, and entitled to repayment, out of the
estate of her deceased husband, of the amount found to be due
to her for moneys received by him which came to her from
the estate of her father.
Exceptions were taken to this report, which were heard at a
special term of the court, and overruled, and a decree was entcred thereon for the complainant, that William Stickney, her
husband, was justly indebted to her at the time of his death
in the sum of $78,371.13 ; that no portion of it had been paid
or satisfied; that, as administratrix of the personal estate of
her deceased husband, she was entitled, in the regular course
of her administration, to devote to the reduction of the said
indebtedness, as against the defendants, and each of them, the
undistributed balance of the personal estate in her hands, ascertained by the report of the auditor to be $32,202.08 ; that
she be permitted to withdraw from the register of the court
$2650.26, previously paid into it by her, after deducting the
clerk's fees; and that the real estate of the said William
Stickney at the time of his death, or so much thereof as might
be necessary, be sold for the payment of the commutation of
her dower therein, and the balance of said indebtedness. On
appeal to the court in general term this decree was affirmed.
To review that decree the case is brought by appeal here.
.bs. S. ..Henklefor appellants.
I. Mrs. Stickney's testhnony concerning her conversations

b incompetent.
i I
with her husband is

Such conversations are ex-

STICKINEY v. STICKN-EY.
Argument for Appellants.

cluded on the ground of public policy, 1 Greenl. Ev. 254, 334,
343; and that disability is not removed by

§§ 876 and 877 of

the Revised Statutes of the District of Columbia.

Eoltzrn

v. Wagner, 5 Mackey, 15; Lucas v. Brooks, 18 Wall. 436, 452.
In Jacobs v. Hesler, 113 Mass. 157, a wife testified before
the auditor that she gave money of her separate estate to her
husband, to invest for her in United States bonds, which he
promised to do, but did not do, but used the money in his business. The auditor reported the facts as above, if her testimony as to conversations between her husband and herself
was competent; if not, then he found the fact to be that she
placed the money in her husband's hands without any agreement, and that he used it in his business. The Supreme Court
of Massachusetts held the conversations incompetent. Mr.
Justice Gray said: "It must be deemed incompetent evidence
as a conversation between husband and wife."
II. The essential facts establishedby the evidence do not
make Mrs. Stickney a creditor of her husband's estate.
At common law all the personal property and money of
the wife which was reduced to possession by the husband became bsolutely his. Tower v. lfagner, 3 Whart. 48; .eser
v. Trigg, 98 U. S. 50. In equity, however, the wife might
have a separateestate which was not subject to the control of
the husband and of which she had the absolutejus disponendi
as if she were feme sole. Caton v. 1ideout, 1 McN. and G.
599. This separate estate was usually settled upon trustees for
her use, but might be vested in herself without the intervention of trustees. Hardy v. Fan Harlinge4,7 Ohio St. 208;
Jones v. Clttan, 101 U. S. 225. As to the control and dis"posal of the income of her separate estate she was as independent of the control of her husband as though she were feme
sole. .Muller v. Bayley, 21 Gratt. 521; Hardy et al. v. Van
Harlingen,uli supra. She might loan the income of her separate estate to her husband and take his note or bond for it,
or she might give it to him. She might be a creditor of her
husband, as to this, and enforce the obligation.
The Married Woman's Act of the District of Columbia is
contained in §§ 727 to 730 inclusive, Rev. Stat. Dist. Col.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Appellants.

By this act the wife becomes the absolute owner of all her
property, real and personal by operation of law, and her separate estate is no longer confined to the estate which was settled to her use by deed or devise, and she now has the jus
disponendi of the principal as well as the income. She may
deal as to her separate property with all the world, including
her husband, she may loan it, or give to her husband or anybody else without limit or restraint. So far the construction
of these modern enabling acts is uniform.
As to what acts or facts will be construed into a gift or loan
from the wife to the husband, there is some diversity in the
decisions of the courts in the different States where these acts
have been adopted. The only cases cited by the auditor to
sustain his conclusion that the use by the husband of his wife's
money by her consent, without more, made him her trustee
for the money, and made him or his estate liable to her as a
debtor, are J-ohnston v. Joknston, 31 Penn. St. 450; Go cenauer's Estate, 23 Penn. St. 460; Grabillv. .Moyer, 45 Penn. St.

530.
It will not be controverted but that the weight of authority
in Pennsylvania sustains the auditor; but there are even there
cases which do not. See .[Vagle v. Ingersoll, 7 Penn. St. 204.
This Pennsylvania doctrine is opposed to the line of decisions in Maryland, from which the District of Columbia derives
its jurisprudence. Grover & Baker Sewing 1fachine Co. v.
Padelif,63 Maryland, 496; Farmers' and .Merochints' -Bank
v. Jenkins, 65 Maryland, 245.
In Jenkins v. -Middleton, 68 Maryland, 540, decided in 1888,
the Court of Appeals said: "It is settled upon the soundest
reasons, that if a man uses the money of his wife with her*
acquiescence, she does not acquire a claim against him or his
estate, unless at the time of the receiving or using of the
money he made her an express promise to repay it." "It is
useless to agitate the question because it is the settled law of
the court. Not to speak of former decisions, it has recently
been declared in Grover & Baker Sewing .Machine Co. v.
Radcli , 63 Maryland, 496; Farmers' and Jtechanics' Bank
v. Jenkins, 65 Maryland, 24:5. It is vain to argue that M1id-

STICKNEY v. STICKNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

dleton loaned the money to himself and his partner jointly.
He could not become a sole debtor or a joint debtor to his wife
without an eapresspomise.'
This doctrine prevails in the other States and in England.
.onroe v. May, 9 Kansas, 466; Logan v. Hill, 19 Iowa, 491;
,acobs v. Hesler, 113 Mass. 157; Caton v. Rideout, 1 McN. &
G. 597; fAfuller v. Bayley, 21 Grattan, 529; Hardy v. 'Fan
Hfarlingen, 7 Ohio St. 209.
The circumstances of this case show that Mr. Stickney used
the money of his wife as husband, and not as trustee. Consequently he, in his lifetime, was not responsible to her for it,
nor is his estate since his decease.
III. Since the enabling statutes, the wife is sui juris as to
her separate property, and may sue in her own name any one
who interferes with it, even her husband. She may loan her
separate money to her husband and enforce payment as
against a stranger. Emerson v. Clayton, 32 Illinois, 493;
.Monroe v. 3fay, ubi supra; -Druryv. Briscoe, 42 Maryland,
151.
IV. The disability of a married woman being removed, the
statute of limitations so far as her separate property is concerned, applies to her as well as to any other person. Castner
v. Walrod, 83 Illinois, 171; Wilson v. Wilson, 36 California,
450; S. C. 95 Am. Dec. 194.
-M'.John Selden for appellee.

M. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The exceptions to the auditor's report, calling for consideration, are founded upon two grounds: one, the supposed incompetency of the complainant to testify as to directions given to
her husband to invest moneys of her separate estate for her
benefit and in her name; and the other, the supposed conclusiveness of the presumption that moneys belonging to the separate estate of the wife, when she allows her husband to use
them, become gifts to him.

OCTOBER TERiM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The general rule of the common law is, that neither husband nor wife is admissible as a witness for or against each
other in any case, civil or criminal. This exclusion, as Greenleaf says, is founded partly upon the identity of their legal
rights and interests, and partly on principles of public policy,
that the confidence existing between them shall be sacredly
protected and cherished to the utmost extent, as being essential to the happiness of social life. But this doctrine has been
modified in several States, in many particulars, by direct legislation upon the subject, such as that neither husband nor wife
shall be compellable to disclose any communication made to
him or her during the marriage, as in New York. A voluntary"
statement is receivable under such a statute. Southwick v.
Southwick, 2 Sweeny (N. Y.) 231. In some States the6statutes include only private conversations in the privilege, but
not such as take place in the presence of others. Fay v. Guynon, 131 Mass. 31. The Revised Statutes of the United States
relating to the District of Columbia, on the subject of witnesses, provide as follows:
"SEC. 876. On the trial of any issue joined, or of any matter or question, or on any inquiry arising in any suit, action or
other proceeding in any court of justice in the District, or
before any person having by law or by consent of parties, authority to hear, receive and examine evidence within the District, the parties thereto, and the.persons in whose behalf any
such action or proceeding may be brought or defended, and all
persons interested in the same, shall, except as provided in the
following section, be competent and compellable to give evidence, either viva voce or by deposition, according to the practice of the court, on behalf of any of the parties to the action
or other proceeding.
"SEc. 877. Nothing in the preceding section shall render
any person who is charged with an offence in any criminal
proceeding competent or compellable to give evidence for or
gainst himself; Or render any person compellable to answer
any question tending to criminate himself; Or render a husband competent or compellable to give evidence for or against
his wife, or a wife competent or compellable to give evidence

STICKNEY v. STICKNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

for or against her husband, in any criminal proceeding or in
any proceeding instituted in consequence of adultery; Nor
shall a husband be compellable to disclose any communication
made to him by his wife during the marriage, nor shall a wife
be compellable to disclose any communication made to her by
her husband during the marriage."
These provisions dispose of the objection of counsel. Mrs.
Stickney was at liberty, though not compellable, to state the
directions given by her to her husband respecting the investment of her money. And without this qualification of the
rule of the common law we are inclined to think that the
changed law respecting her separate property, created by
the Married Woman's Act of April 10, 1869, c. 23, 16 Stat. 45,
would require for its successful enforcement some modification
of the common law rule as to a husband or wife being -a witness where a controversy arises between them relating to the
disposition of her separate personal property. That property
no longer, as at common law, vests in her husband by the
marriage. That act provides as follows:
"SEc. 1. That, in the District of Columbia, the right of any
married woman to any property, personal or real, belonging
to her at the time of marriage, or acquired during marriage
in any other way than by gift or conveyance from her husband, shall be as absolute as if she were fene sole, and shall
not be subject to the disposal of her husband, nor be liable for
his debts; but such married woman may convey, devise and
bequeath the same, or any interest therein, in the same manner
and with like effect as if she were unmarried.
"SEc. 2. That any married woman may contract, and sue

and be sued, in her own name, in all matters having relation
to her sole and separate property in the same manner as if
she were unmarried; but neither her husband nor his property
shall be bound by any such contract nor liable for any recovery against her in any such suit, but judgment may be
enforced by execution against her sole and separate estate in
the same manner as if she were sole."
So far as her separate property is concerned, a married
woman thus becomes as absolute owner as though she were

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

unmarried, and it would seem should also have the same protection, through her own evidence, as a feme sole. We do
not think, therefore, that the exception of the defendants is
well taken. With the testimony of Mrs. Stickney, "corroborated as it is in many particulars by statements of others and
by the books of her husband and those of the executors of the
estate of Amos Kendall, there can be no serious contention as
to the correctness of the conclusions reached by the auditor as
to matters of fact involved, upon the evidence presented to
him.
This view of the admissibility of Mrs. Stickney's testimony
disposes also of the supposed presumption, arising from her
allowing her husband to use the moneys of her separate estate, that she intended them as a gift to him. Any presumption of that kind, if it would otherwise arise in the case, was
entirely rebutted by her repeated and express directions to
invest the moneys for her benefit in her own name. But we
are of opinion that, in the absence of her testimony, there
would be no presumption, since the passage of the farried
Woman's Act, that she intended to give to her husband the
moneys she placed in his hands, any more than a gift 'would
be inferred from a third person who in like manner deposited
money with him. If there be no proof of indebtedness to the
party receiving the moneys, the. presumption would naturally
be that they were placed with him to be held subject to the
order of the other party, or to be invested for the latter's benefit. We think that whenever a husband acquires possession of
the separate property of his wife, whether with or without her
consent, he must be deemed to hold it in trust for her benefit,
in the absence of any 'direct evidence that she intended to
make a gift of it to him. In Grabill v. Moyer, 45 Penn.
St. 530, 533, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in speaking
of the effect of an act of that State, passed on the 11th
of April, 1848, confaining provisions similar to the Married
Woman's Act of the District of Columbia, said: "When the
act of assembly declares, as it does, that all property, real, personal and mixed, which shall accrue to any married woman
during coverture, by will, descent, deed of conveyance, or

STICKNEY v. STICK IEY.
Opinion of the Court.

otherwise, shall be owned, used, and enjoyed by such married
woman, as her own separate property; when the leading purpose of the act is to protect the wife's estate by excluding the
husband, it is impossible for us to declare that the mere possession of it by the husband is proof that the title has passed
from the wife to him. After it has been shown, as it was in
this case, that the property accrued to the wife by descent
from her father's and brother's estates, the presumption necessarily is that it continued hers. In such a case it lies upon
one who asserts it to be the property of the husband to prove
a transmission of the title, either by gift or contract for value,
for the law does not transmit it without the act of the parties.
If mere possession were sufficient evidence of a gift, the act
of 1848 would be useless to the wife. Nothing is more easy
than for the husband to obtain possession, even against the
consent of the wife. And where he obtains it with her consent, it can be at most but slight evidence of a gift."
The case of Bergey's Ap2)eal, 60 Penn. St. 408, cited by
the auditor in his report, is in point here. Bergey received
money belonging to his wife, being her patrimonial portion,
in her presence, and both united in a receipt for it. Not a
word was spoken by the wife when her husband took up the
money to count it, and put it in his pocket; nor was a word
ever heard afterwards to the effect that the wife had made
a gift of it. The husband appropriated it to the purchase of a
farm, and the Supreme Court of the State held that no inference could arise of a gift from the transaction as detailed,
observing that "she was not bound to attempt a rescue of it
from him, or proclaim that it was not a gift. She might rest
on the idea that his receipt, in her presence, was with the intent to take care of it for her. In Johnston,v. Johnston's A(rninistrator,31 Penn. St. 450, this court said, in a case of the
nature of this, 'as the law made it (the money) hers, it presumes it to have been received for her by her husband.'
That case contrasts the presumptions arising from the receipt
of money by husbands, prior and subsequent to the act of
11th of April, 1848. In the first period, the presumption is
that he has received it under and' by virtue of his marital

