HOLLON PARKER, Petitioner.
Counsel for Parties.

it is reversed accordingly, and the cause remanded with instructions to dismiss the petition.
Reversed.
Mr. Hfenry . MIiller and Mr. J" . Beckwitl for appellant. Mr5.
John. A. Camp)bell, Mr. Thomas J. Semmes and Mr. Afred Goldthwaite for appellees.

HOLLOK. PARKER, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 5. Original.

Submitted'April 26, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

An appeal taken from the judgment of a District Court in Washington
Territory to the Supreme Court, under the territorial act of N6vember
23, 1883, in relation to the removal of causes to the Supreme Court, is a
matter of right, if taken within the prescribed time, and no notice of
intention to take it need be given.
Rights, under our system of law and procedure, do not rest in the discretionary authority of any officer, judicial or otherwise.
The chambers of a district judge of Washington Territory, who is also a
judge of the Supreme Court of the Territory, may be held whilst he is
in attendance upon the Supreme Court at the place where such court is
sitting, although it be without the territorial limits of his district, and
at such chambers he may receive notice of an appeal from a judgment
rendered by him within his district.
Mandamus lies where an inferior court refuses to take jurisdiction, when by
law it ought to do so, or when, having obtained jurisdiction, it refuses to
proceed in its exercise. Exparte Brown, 116 U. S. 401, distinguished.
A writ of mandamus to correct a mistake of an inferior court as to its jurisdiction may issue to the court and to its judges, although the court is
composed of different members from those by whom the error complained
of was commiited.

PEiTIoN for a writ of mandamus.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
r'. John -H. Mitchell for the petitioner.
.A.. If. If. U~ton, .&. C. B. ~Upton, .M. John B. Allen,
Mr. B. L. Sharpstein' and .r. TJ L. Sharsteirnopposing.

OCTOBER TER-M, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application for a writ of mandamus to the Supreme Court of Washington Territory to reinstate an appeal
to that court from a judgment of the District Court of the
First Judicial District of the Territory, dismissed for alleged
irregularity in taking it. The case is before us on a return of
the Supreme Court to our rule.. The material facts upon which
the application is made, condensed from the statement contained in the record and briefs of counsel, are as follows:
In May, 1884, the petitioner, Hollon Parker, commenced an
action in the District Court of the First Judicial District of
Washington Territory against George Dacres, to recover possession of certain real property 'situated in the county of
Walla Walla, in the Territory, and demanding also in his
complaint $22,500 as the value of the rents and profits of the
property whilst unlawfully detained from him. The defendant
appeared and answered the complaint, denying generally its
allegations, and setting up that he had purchased the premises
at a judicial sale had on a judgment rendered in an action between other parties in that court, and had made permanent
improvements thereon to the value of $6000. The plaintiff
replied to the answer, denying its allegations. On the .trial
which followed, the defendant, under the instructions of the
court, obtained a verdict of the jury, upon which judgment
was entered in his favor on the 14th of February, 1885. Soon
afterwards, and during the same month, an appeal from the
judgment was taken by the plaintiff to the Supreme Court of
the Territory, which, on the 14th of July following was dismissed, because no assignment of errors had been filed with
the clerk of the District Court and served on the adverse party
or*his attorney, within twenty days after entry of notice of
appeal in the journal of the District Court, as required by its
rules.
By the law of the Territory a party against whom a judgment is rendered is allowed six months to appeal from it. In
this case the time to appeal extended to August 14, 1885. Accordingly, on the 27th of July, 1885, the plaintiff gave another

HOLLON PARKER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

notice of appeal, by writ of error, to the Supreme Court of the
Territory, from the judgment, at the chambers of the judge
of the District Court, and requested that the notice be .entered
upon the journal of the court, and it was thereupon ordered
that the notice of appeal be thus entered, and that the appeal
be allowed. This proceeding was had at the chambers of the
district judge whilst he was at Olympia, attending the Supreme
Court of the Territory, he being one of its members. Olympia is without the territorial limits of the district of which he
was judge.
The important sections of the act of the Territory of November 23, 1883, under which the appeal was taken, are as
follows:
"An act in relation to the removal of causes to the Supreme
Court.
"See. 1. Be it enacted by tke Legislative Assemly of Washington, Territory,That any person desiring to remove a cause
from any District Court of Washington Territory may do so,
either in person or by his attorney of record, and in the following manner: Such person or attorney may give notice in open
court, or at chambers, that he appeals such cause to the Supreme Court of the Territory; such notice shall, by order of
the court, or judge having jurisdiction of the cause, be entered
in the journal of such court, and no other service or notice
shall be required; and thereupon the clerk of such court shall
make and certify a full and complete transcript of said cause,
including the journal entries thereunto appertaining, and cause
such transcript to be filed with the clerk of the Supreme
Court within the time allowed by law; and thereupon the Supreme Court shall have complete and perfect jurisdiction of
such cause.
"See. 2. That the Supreme Court shall hear and determine
all causes removed thereto, in the manner hereinbefore provided, upon the merits thereof, disregarding all technicalities."
"Sec. 5. The notice of appeal hereinbefore provided for
may be given at any time within six months after the rendi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the judgment, order, or decision intended to be removed to the Supreme Court.
"Sec. 6. All acts and parts of acts, so far as they conflict
herewith, are hereby repealed.
"Approved November 23, 1883."
Subsequently the defendant moved to dismiss this second
appeal, and at the January Term of the Supreme Court of
1887, it was dismissed, on the ground that the notice of appeal
not being given in open court, and being in its nature an application for an order allowing the appeal, was entertained by
the judge without, the preliminary notice to the adverse party
prescribed by ยง 2140 of the code. 3- Washington Ter. 12.
That section, so far as it relates to this matter, is as follows:
"Sec. 2140. When a party to an action has appeared in the
same he shall be entitled to at least three days' notice of any
trial, hearing, motion, or application to be had or made therein, before any judge at chambers; which motion shall be in
writing, setting forth the nature of the motion or application
and the grounds thereof, and specifying the time and place
where the same will be made, and which may be served o.
the adverse party or his attorney."
It would appear, from the statements of counsel, that on
the argument of the motion to dismiss the appeal it was also
contended that the district judge of the First Judicial District
had no jurisdiction to hear the application for an appeal at
chambers without the territorial limits of his district; and
that position is also taken here.
We are of opinion that neither the objection that no notice
of application for the appeal was given, nor that the judge, in
acting without the territorial limits of his district, was without
jurisdiction in the matter, is tenable.
1. The act of the Territory of November 23, 1883, in providing for a new mode, different from what previously existed,
by which cases can be removed from the District Court to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, declares that notice of appeal
may be given in open court or at chambers; that such notice
shall, by order of the court or judge having jurisdiction, be

HOLLON PARKER, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

entered on the journal of the court; and that no other service
or notice shall be required. This language is inconsistent with
any requirement that notice to the opposite party shall be
given that the party desirous of appealing intends to give
notice of an appeal. The nature of the proceeding is such
that no notice of it is required before application is made to
the judge. When an appeal is taken notice of the fact is
usually given to the opposite party, or a citation is served on
him. The act of the Territory, however, renders the entry
upon the journal sufficient notice to all parties. Section 2140
of the code can have no proper application to orders which
are granted of course, as being matters of right, but only to
those matters which may be contested and refused. An appeal from a District Court to the Supreme Court of the Territory within the six months allowed by law was not a matter
which could be refused at the discretion of the district judge
or court. Rights under our system of law and procedure do
not rest in the discretionary authority of any officer, judicial
or otherwise. There was, therefore, no occasion to give notice
of the intention of the party to take the proceeding.
The second objection is equally untenable. When the law
allowed the proceeding to be taken at the chambers of the
judge of the court, it meant at the chambers where he can
conveniently attend to business relating to cases in his district,
not that they must necessarily be within the territorial limits of
his district. As one of the judges of the Territory, it is a
part of his duty to sit in the Supreme Court. He is one of
its members, and his chambers, whilst the Supreme Court is
in session, and he is in attendance upon it, may be at the
place where that court is sitting. Otherwise, the right of appeal within the six months allowed by law would be abridged
for the period for which notice is to be given.
It is also objected that mandamus is not the proper remedy
for the petitioner, under the decision in Expa'te Brown, 116
U. S. 401. There the Supreme Court of the Territory entertained jurisdiction of the cause which was brought before iti
by appeal, but dismissed it for want of due prosecution ; that
is to say, because errors had not been assigned in accordance
VOL. CXXXI-15

OTO]DER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

with rules of practice applicable to the form of the action;
and we held that the judgment could only be reviewed here on
writ of error or appeal, as the case might be. In the case
before us, the Supreme Court of the Territory dismissed the
appeal because not properly taken; that is, because the cause
had not been brought before it from the lower court. The
distinction in the two cases is obvious: in the one, the court
below had taken jurisdiction and acted; but in the present
case it refused to take jurisdiction. The right of mandamus
lies, as held in E parte
p
Parker, 120 U. S. 737, where an
inferior court refuses to take jurisdiction when by law it ought
to do so, or where, having obtained jurisdiction, it refuses to
proceed in its exercise. It does not lie to correct alleged
errors in the exercise of its judicial discretion. Ex 2arte
.Mlorgan, 114 U. S. 174; Chateaugay Ore and Iron Co., Ptitioner, 128 U. S. 544, 557.
It is also objected that when the order dismissing the appeal was made the Supreme Court of the Territory consisted
of other judges, than its present members. The then Chief
Justice has died and a new Chief Justice occupies his place.
The only Associate Justice then in office who now remains
on the bench, Mr. Justice Langford, took no part in the decision. The question, therefore, is raised whether under such
circumstances the mandamus can issue to the court, constituted
as it now is, to reinstate a case dismissed by their predecessors.

We do not think the objection is tenable. The mandamus is to
correct a mistake as to its jurisdiction, committed by the court,
and although it is the custom in such cases to direct the writ
not merely to the court but to its judges by name, yet including their names within the writ, except in special cases where
disobedience may be apprehended, is at the present day little
more than a mere matter of form. Disobedience to the writ
would be as unusual on the part of the court to which it is
directed as would be a refusal to carry into effect the reversal
of its judgment in an ordinary action. The object of the
writ in the present case is to require the court to proceed in
a matter properly cognizable by it, but upon which, from a
mistaken view of the law as to its jurisdiction, it has refused

