STEWART v. MASTERS01.
Syllabus.

It is not enough that Thompson, while he owned the copyright, gave the required notice in the copies of every edition

he published, while it was his copyright. The inhibition of
the statute extended to and operated upon Hubbard while he
owned the copyright, in respect to the copies of every edition which he published, and for his failure he is debarred
from maintaining his action.
The view is urged, that the only object of the notice required by the statute is to give notice of the copyright to the
public; and that, as Thompson himself took the copyright, and
had vested the title to it in Hubbard, he has no right to infringe the copyright, although it may be invalid as to the
rest of the world. But we are of opinion that the failure
of Hubbard to comply with the statute operated to prevent
his right of action against Thompson from coming into existence. This right of action, as well as the copyright itself,
is wholly statutory, and the means of securing any right of
action in Hubbard are only those prescribed by Congress.
Theaton v. Peters,8 Pet. 591, 662, 663 ; Banks v. .anchester,
128 U. S. 244, 252.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court with directions to dismiss the
original bill and the cross-bill, with costs in the Cireuit
Court to neither party. Each _party is topay one half of
all the costs in this court.

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 287.

Argued April 25,1859.-Decided May 13, 1889.

A demurrer to a bill in equity cannot introduce as its support new facts
which do not appear on the face of the bill, and which must be setup by
plea or answer.
Where there is matter in the bill which is properly pleaded, and is properly

OCTOBER TER,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.
ground for equitable relief, and requires an answer or a plea, a demurrer
to the whole bill will be overruled.
Where a bill is taken as confessed by one of two defendants before d decree
is made dismissing the bill, on demurrer, as to the other defendant, the
latter can appeal from the decree, although it does not dispose of the
.case as to his codefendant.

Ix urry. Decree dismissing the bill. The case is stated
in the opinion of the court.
-Y'. C acrles C. 1ancasterfor appellant.

.Afr. S. S. Henkie for appellee.
MR. JusICcE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Western District of Texas by James
Reid Stewart. The original bill was filed against James L.
Tait and his wife, and Branch T. Masterson. Tait and wife
demurred to the bill, among other things, for multifariousness,
as did also Masterson. On a hearing, the demurrers were sustained, with leave to amend the bill. The plaintiff then filed
an amended bill against Masterson and Tait. It was taken as
confessed as to Tait, and an order made that the cause be proceeded in ex parte as to him. Mkasterson demurred to the
amended bill, and the demurrer was sustained and the bill
as against him was dismissed. The plaintiff has appealed to
this court.
The allegations of the amended bill are substantially as
follows: On the 10th of May, 1878, at Glasgow, Scotland,
Stewart and Tait entered into a written agreement. By that
agreement, Stewart's son and Tait were to proceed together to
Texas, and Tait was to purchase 2560 acres of land, in such
place as might seem to him most advantageous, at a price not
to exceed 12 shillings per acre, title deeds to be made out and
recorded in the name of Stewart, and he to authorize payment
of the purchase money on delivery of the title deeds to the
order of such party as might be named therein, money for
improvements to be furnished by Stewart as required by Tait,

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

he to give receipts as acting for Stewart, and the farm to be
worked on equal shares, and profits to be equally divided
between Stewart's son and Tait, the agreement to remain in
force for five years from the date of purchase of the land; a
further tract of 2560 acres to be purchased in the names of
Tait and Stewart's son, on a credit of four years, payment to
be made out of realized profits; and until such additional land
should be paid for, but not exceeding five years, Stewart
should not require the repayment of moneys advanced; interest to be paid for such moneys at the rate of 6 per cent per
annum; Tait to do his best as to supervision and guidance of
Stewart's son, and to have the management and be responsible
to Stewart; the amount to be advanced by Stewart not to
exceed in all £3250 sterling.
The amended bill then makes the following allegations: In
pursuance of such agreement, Tait, in June, 1878, purchased
for Stewart and in his name, and went into the occupancy of,
and held for him as his agent, for five years, 4605 acres of
land in Bexar County, Texas', known as the Gasper Flores
survey No. 13, and situated within the territory of the MN[cMullen grant, thereinafter described and bounded as set forth;
Stewart paid for the land $9000, and expended in improvements, as owner, $6147.51, and thereby increased the value of
the land at least $3 per acre, making the whole value of the
improvements, as made by him, $19,962.51. He paid about
$1000 taxes on the land. The title was from the government
of Spain, which conveyed in fee to the Indians of San Jos&
Mission, land known as the McMullen grant, in 'the counties
of Medina and Bexar. It was conveyed by the Indians to one
Garza, and by him and the Indians to one John McMullen, in
fee. While McMullen owned and occupied it, and in February, 1840, one Maverick, being the owner of Texas land certificate No. 276, as the assignee of Gasper Flores, the grantee
of the State of Texas, located such certificate on a portion of
the land within the IcMullen grant, known as the Gasper
Flores survey No. 13, being the identical land owned by Stewart and thereinbefore described, and afterwards procured a
patent for the land and became vested with all the title of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Republic or State of Texas thereto, and claimed survey No. 13,
adversely to the title and possession of McMullen. Afterwards, McMullen conveyed the McMullen grant to one Howard, and he, in February, 1851, commenced a suit in equity,
styled chancery suit No. 10, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas, to remove the cloud
upon his title. Maverick was made a party to that suit and
appeared, and on the final hearing it was decreed that the
heirs of Howard, (he having died and they having been substituted as plaintiffs,) should recover the McMullen grant from
Maverick and the other defendants, and that the title of said
heirs-was free from all clouds, and that all patents, locations,
and surveys, owned by the defendants in the suit, were void,
and they were ordered to cancel the same, and the title of
said heirs to the McMullen grant was adjudged to be a good
title. On a reference made by said decree, a master reported
that M averick appeared to have claimed to be the owner of
the Gasper Flores survey No. 13, being the land of Stewart,
and that the same was situated within the limits of the ArcMullen grant. The master made a deed in triplicate, conveying all the interest of the heirs of McMullen to the McMullen
grant, and the heirs of Howard acquired legal title to and possession of that grant, and one Castro purchased from the heirs
of Howard and became the owner of said survey iIo. 13, and
went into possession thereof, and afterwards sold the same in
fee to Stewart, for $9000, and delivered possession thereof to
him, in Tune, 1878, the deed expressing the consideration of
810,500, and being duly recorded in Bexar County, as was
also the said deed to Castro. Thus, Stewart's land became
and was land titled from the State, evidence of the appropriation of which was on the county records of the county of
Bexar, and in the general land office of the State, according
to the provisions of section 2 of article 14: of the constitution
of the State. The heirs of Howard were, by virtue of said
decree, put in possession of all the land in the McM ullen grant
claimed by the defendants in suit No. 10, and the State of
Texas acquiesced in the decree, and caused the McMullen
grant to be marked on the maps of the general land office

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

by its boundaries within the counties of Bexar and Medina,
and the grant was marked on the county maps of each of
those counties, by authority of the State, and the heirs of
Howard and those holding under them have been required to
pay state and county taxes on the land, and the State and
the county of Bexar have levied taxes on Stewart's land and
collected the same from him as owner thereof, ever since he
purchased it, and he has ever since been in the actual possession and occupancy of the same and the improvements thereon,
and thus his appropriation of the land was evidenced by the
occupation of *the owner or some person holding for him,
under the provisions of section 2 of article 14 of the state
constitution. -Masterson became and was a party defendant
to said suit No. 10, before the final determination of the same,
as the assignee in bankruptcy of one Herndon, a defendant
therein, (who had located a certificate on and taken out a
patent to lands within the :McMullen grant, and whose claim
was a cloud on the McMullen title,) and had full knowledge
of the decree and of the proceedings in suit No. 10, before and
after the decree, and knowledge of the possession and title of
the heirs of Howard and of Castro, and of Stewart's title, possession, and improvements, and that Tait was, during five years
from June 22, 1878, holding Stewart's land and the improvements thereon as the agent of Stewart. The foregoing decree
and conveyances vested in Stewart the absolute property in
said 4605 acres of land, but Masterson and Tait fraudulently
colluded with each other that Tait should abandon Stewart's
land and all the improvements thereon and deliver the same
over to Masterson for the consideration of $750, to be paid by
him to Tait,4with intent to cheat Stewart out of the value of
said improvements and deprive him of his title to the land.
Masterson, with such intent, and in contempt of said decree,
and in violation of said provision of the constitution of Texas,
fraudulently located and caused to be surveyed the whole of
Stewart's land, as vacant and unappropriated domain of the
State of Texas, by virtue of several land certificates issued by.
the State and owned by Masterson, and caused the surveys
thereof and the field-notes of the surveys to be recorded in the

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

office of the county surveyor of Bexar County, with particulars
set forth in the amended bill, and procured patents to issue to
himself thereon to the lands described in such surveys and
field-notes, covering Stewart's said land. In August, 1882,
Masterson commenced an action of ejectment or trespass to
try title, in the District Court of Bexar County, against Tait,
to acquire possession of Stewart's said land. The suit was
brought for the purpose, among other things, of furnishing a
pretext for Tait to abandon Stewart's property, and, having
served its purpose, it was dismissed by Masterson, who paid
all the costs thereof; and Tait, in pursuance of such collusive
agreement and the payment to him of $750 by Masterson,
surrendered, and Mvfasterson received occupancy of, 1280 acres
of the land and a dwelling-house and improvements thereon,
and pretends to hold the same as owner, and also to claim title
and the right of possession to the remainder of Stewart's land,
unoccupied by him, under and by virtue of lasterson's said
locations and patents thereon. The amended bill tenders to
Masterson the amount of the actual expenses incurred by him
in paying for the certificates, surveys and patents. Tait is
insolvent, and if, upon a final hearing, the title of Masterson
should be decreed to be paramount to that of Stewart, the
value of Stewart's improvements on the land, namely,
$19,962.51, would be lost to him, unless adjudged to him
against Masterson by a decree, and made a lien upon the
land.
The amended bill waives an answer on oath as to all matters except those specified in six interrogatories, as to which
an answer on oath is required. It prays for an accounting by
Masterson as to the cost incurred by him in the purchase of
his certificates, the location and running of the surveys, and
the procurement of patents on the 4605 acres of land; that
the title acquired by him, if any, be by a decree vested in
Stewart on the payment of the amounts so expended by Masterson; that the cloud upon Stewart's title be removed, and
MlIasterson forever barred of all interest in the land; and that
Stewart be quieted in his title and possession, and be decreed
to be the owner. There is an alternative prayer that, in case

STEWART v. MASTERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the title to the 4605 acres be found to be in Masterson, then
the amount of the value of the improvements made on the
land be adjudged to Stewart against Masterson, and made a
lien on the land; that the land be sold to satisfy the lien; and
that Masterson be foreclosed and barred of all interest in the
land, except the equity of redemption before sale by the payment of the amount of the lien; and for general relief.
The demurrer of Masterson purports to be a demurrer to
the amended bill, and to the original bill as amended by
the amended bill. It demurs thereto and to the jurisdiction
of the court sitting in equity, and assigns several grounds of
demurrer: (1) That the amended bill sets up substantially
matters against which the court sustained the demurrer to the
original bill, in that it appeared by the original bill, and cause
No. 10 in equity therein referred to and stated as a part of
Stewart's title and the exhibits, order and decree in cause No.
10, that Stewart's pretended title to the lands sued for is based
on the so-called McMullen grant which the Supreme Court of
Texas, in the case of .- Ylkfullen v. Hodge, 5 Texas, and in .Howard v. .fcEenzie, 54 Texas, declared to be vacant public domain; and the decision in .fc.Mullen v. Hodge was rendered
long before Stewart purchased, and McMullen, against whom
it was rendered, is a remote vendor of Stewart, and Stewart's
claim is under him; and Stewart has not, by the amended
bill, set up any other claim than the void one defectively set
up in the original bill; and the amended bill does not contain
proper allegations to entitle him to assert a claim for the value
of improvements; (2) that there is a want of equity in the
bills; (3) that Tait has no interest in the matters concerning
which the decree is sought against Masterson, and no relief is
asked against Tait, and no facts are alleged which would entitle
Stewart to maintain this suit against Masterson and Tait, and
there is a misjoinder of parties defendant; (4) that Stewart
has a full, complete and adequate remedy at law.
We think the demurrer to the amended bill ought to have
been overruled, and Masterson put to his answer thereto. It
appears by the opinion of the court below, filed in deciding
on the demurrer to the original bill, that the case made by

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

that bill against MXasterson and Tait was substantially the
same as the case made against them by the amended bill, and
that the demurrer to the original bill was sustained on the
ground of multifariousness, because, in addition, it sought an
account from Tait personally, as agent or trustee of Stewart,
in respect to funds entrusted by Stewart to Tait, and also
prayed to have established a lien in respect thereto, in favor
of Stewart, upon a homestead which it was alleged Tait had
purchased for himself and his wife with such funds. The court
was of opinion that Tait was a proper party to the bill with
1i~asterson, in respect to the matters other than the accounting by Tait and that Stewart might reform his original bill
and so frame it as to embrace solely the matters against
Masterson and Tait relating to Stewart's title to the land in
question, and the alternative claim to a right to be paid for
the value of permanent improvements made upon the land,
as against Masterson.
It is assigned as error by Stewart that nowhere in the
original bill or in the amended bill is it admitted that the
McMullen title, which Stewart is litigating in this case, is the
identical McMullen title which has been at various times litigated in the courts of Texas; that the court below had no
authority to take judicial notice of the identity of the grant
in litigation with another grant referred to in the state reports, when this identity was not admitted in the bill demurred
to; and that that court could derive knowledge of such identity only from evidence properly offered and admitted, after
due allegations in a plea or answer.
It is very clear that the present demurrer introduces as its
support new facts which do not appear on the face of the bill,
and which must be set up by plea or answer. Story Eq. Pl.
9th ed. §§ 447, 448, 503, 647.
In addition to this, as there is matter properly pleaded in the
amended bill, and properly ground for equitable relief, which
requires an answer or a plea, and as the demurrer is to the
whole bill, it ought to have been overruled. The case, as
stated, shows there is no plain, adequate, and complete remedy
at law.

