OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION
v. BARRY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

No. 240. Argued April 9, 1889.-Decided May 13, 18S9.
A certificate or policy issued by a Mutual Accident Association stated that it
accepted B. as a member in division AA of the association; "the principal sum represented by the payment of two dollars by each member in*
division AA," not exceeding $5000, to be paid to the wife of B. in 60 days
after proof of his death, from sustaining "bodily injuries effected through
external, violentand accidentalmeans." B. and two other persons jumped
from a platform four or five feet high, to the ground, "they jumping
safely and he jumping last. He soon appeared ill, and vomited, and
could retain nothing on his stomach, and passed nothing but decomposed
blood and mucus and died nine days afterwards. In a suit by the widow
to recover the $5000, the complaint averred that the jar from the jump
produced a stricture of the duodenum, from the effects of which death
ensued. At the time of the death the association could have levied a
two dollar assessment on 4803 members in division AA; Held,
(1) It was not error in the court to refuse to direct the jury to find a
special verdict, as provided by the statute of the State;
(2) The issue raised by the complaint as to the particular cause of death
was fairly presented to the jury.
(3) The jury were at liberty to find that the injury resulted from an
accident;
(4) The policy did not contract to make an assessment, nor make the
payment of any sum contingent on an assessment or on its collection; and the association took the risk of those who should
not pay.

THIS was an action at law brought in the County Court of
Milwaukee County, in the State of Wisconsin, by Theresa A.
Barry, a citizen Qf Wisconsin, against the United States Mutual
Accident Association, a New York corporation, to recover
$5000, with interest thereon at seven per cent per annum,
from July 15th, 1883, on a policy of insurance issued by thedefendant on June 23d,1882. The case, after answer, was
removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court of the United

AUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

101

Statement of the Case.

States for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. The material
parts of the policy are set forth in the margin.'
The complaint, after setting forth the terms of the policy
and averring that it was delivered by the defendant to John
S. Barry, alleged, "that, on or about the 20th day of June,
1883, and while said policy was in full force and effect, at the

town or village of Iron Mountain, in the State of Michigan,
and while the. said John S. Barry was attending to the duties
of his profession, to wit, that of a physician, and wholly without his fault, it became necessary for him to step or jump from
I'No. 794.

Division AA.

0000.

The United States Mutual Accident Association of the City of New York.
This certificate witnesseth, That The United States Mutual Accident
Association, in consideration of the warranties and agreements made to them
in the application for membership and of the sum of four dollars, do hereby
accept John S. Barry, by occupation, profession, or employment a physician
residing in Vulcan, State of Michigan, as a member in division AA of said
association, subject to all the requirements and entitled, to all the benefits
thereof. The principal sum represented by the payment of two dollars by
each mrember in division AA of the association, as provided in the by-laws
(which sum, however is not to exceed five thousand dollars), to be paid to
'Theresa A. Barry (his wife), if surviving (in the event of the prior death
of said beneficiaries, or any of them, said sum shall be paid as provided in
the by-laws), within sixty days after sufficient proof that said member, at
any time within the continuance of membership, shall have sustained bodily
injuries effected through external, violent and accidental means, within the
intenr and meaning of the by-laws of said association and the conditions
hereunto annexed, and such injuries alone shall have occasioned death within
ninety days from the happening thereof.
. . Provided always, That
this certificate is issued and accepted subject to all the provisions, conditions, limitations, and exceptions herein contained or referred to.
Provided always, That benefits under this certificate shall not extend to hernia,
nor to any bodily injury of which there shall be no external and visible sign,
nor to any bodily injury happening directly or indirectly in consequence of
disease, nor to any death or disability which may have been caused wholly
or in part by bodily infirmities or disease existing prior or subsequent to
the date of the certificate, . . - nor to any case except where the injury
is the proximate or sole cause of the disability or death. . . . And these
benefits shall not be held to extend . . . to any case of death . . .
-

unless the claimant under this certificate shall establish by direct and positive proof that the said death or personal injury was caused by external violence and accidental means, and was not the result of design either on the
part of the member or of any other person.

102,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

a platform or walk to the ground beneath, about. four feet
downwards, and, in doing so, and in alighting upon said
ground, he unexpectedly received an accidental jar and sudden
wrenching of his bocly, caused by said jump or step downward
and by coming in contact with the said ground beneath, as
aforesaid, all of which was unexpected on his part and wholly
without his fault or negligence; that the said jarring of his
person and wrenching of his body, caused as aforesaid, was
the immediate cause of, and directly produced, a stricture of
the duodenum, from the effects of which the said John S. Barry
continued to grow worse until, on the 29th day of June, 1883,
he, on account of the same, died."
Issue was joined, and the case was tried by a jury, whose
verdict was, that they found the issue in favor of the plaintiff,
and assessed the damages to her at the sum of $5779.70; and
a judgment was entered for her for that amount, and $189.35
costs, being a total of $5969.05. To review this judgment
the defendant has brought a writ of error.
At the trial the plaintiff offered in evidence the policy or
certificate, to which offer the defendant objected, for the reason that the complaint did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. The objection was overruled and the
defendant excepted. The defendant objected also that the
complaint alleged no assessment, and the court received the
evidence subject to the objection. The plaintiff then proved,
without objection, by the secretary of the defendant, that on
the 23d of June, 1882, there were 804 members in division AA
in the association, and on the same day in 1883, 4803 members, and on the same day in 1884, 5626 members; that, during June and July, 1883, the defendant, in case of a death in
division AA, could have levied a two-dollar assessment on at
least 4803 members, that number being then insured in that
division; that the only members who were exempt from the
two-dollar death assessment were those who became members
subsequent to the death for which the assessment was made;
that, if the defendant had desired to pay the loss occasioned
by the death of Barry the amount to be paid would have been
$5000; that the assessment levied next prior to June 29th,

IIUTUAL ACOIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

103

Statement of the Case.

1883, was levied June 1st, 1883; that if, at the time a death
was reported, and a claim was proved, there were sufficient
funds to the credit of division AA, the loss was paid from
those funds, without making a specific assessment; that, if
there were not sufficient funds at that time, an assessment was
made; and that, on June 29th, 1883, the defendant had on
hand, belonging to class AA, $2060.15. The witness then
produced the by-laws of the defendant for 1882-1883, the material parts of which are set forth in the margin.'
In the proofs of death furnished to the defendant was the
following, in the evidence of the attending physician: "12th.
What was the precise nature of the injury and its extent?
Inflammation of the duodenum, from jarring (jump)."
The plaintiff's husband was a physician 30 years of age at
the time of his death. He was, at the time of the injury,
strong and robust, weighing from 160 'to 175 pounds, about six
feet high, and in good health. With two other physicians,
Dr. Crowell and Dr. Hirschmann, he visited a patient, on June
20th, 1883, who lived in a house behind a drug store. On
coming out of the house they were on a platform which was
between four and five feet from the ground, and if they got off
from the platform it was but a short distance to the back part
of the drug store, where they desired to go. The other two
1 Art. 1, sec. 3. The object of this association is to collect and accumulate a fund to be held and used for the mutual benefit and protection of its
members, (or their beneficiaries,) who shall have sustained while members
of the association bodily injuries, whether fatal or disabling, effected
through external, violent and accidental means.
Art. 7, sec. 1. Upon sufficient proof that a member of one of the divisions of this association shall have sustained bodily injuries effected through
external, violent and accidental means within the intent and meaning of
these by-laws and the conditions named in the certificate of membership,
-and such injuries alone shall have occasioned death within ninety days from
the happening thereof, the board of directors shall immediately order an
assessment of two dollars upon each pers6n who was a member of the
division to which deceased belonged at the time of such death, and shall
pay the amount so collected, according to the following schedule of classification

. . .

to the person or persons whose name shall, at the time

of the death of such member, be found recorded as his last designated
beneficiaries, if surviving. To members of division AA not exceeding
85000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

jumped from the platform first, and alighted all right. Dr.
Hirschmann testifies: "Just after we had jumped Dr. Barry
jumped, and he came down so heavy that it attracted our
attention, and we both turned around, and we both remarked
that it was a heavy jump, and I asked him, ' Doctor, ae you
hurt?' and he said, 'No; not much.' I have an indistinct
recollection of his leaning against the platform when he
jumped, but not sufficiently to state positively. If I were to
jump I would jump and strike on my toes, and if I had any
distance to jump would allow my knees to give. The way Dr.
Barry came down it sounded to us as if he came down solid
on his heels, so much so that we both turned around and
remarked, 'Doctor, you came down heavily.' And I asked
him, ' Are you hurt? ' and he said, ' No; not much.' I heard
the noise. It was a singular jump and sounded like an inert
body. We then went Wvith him to the drug store." Hirschmann drove home with him. He appeared ill on the way, and
when he arrived home was distressed in his stomach, and
vomited, and from that time on retained nothing on his stomach, and passed nothing but decomposed blood and mucus,
and died nine days afterwards. There. was much conflicting
testimony as to the cause of death, and as to whether it
resulted from duodenitis or a stricture of the duodenum, as
alleged in the complaint, and from an injury caused by the
jump. The issues presented to the jury sufficiently appear
from the charge of the court.
. At the close of the evidence on both sides, all of which is
set forth in the bill of exceptions, the defendant moved the
court to direct a verdict for it, on the ground that there was
no' evidence to sustain a cause of action. The motion was
denied and the defendant excepted.
The plaintiff then, by leave of the court, amended her complaint by alleging that, at the time of Dr: Barry's death, and
from that time, and for the balance of the year 1883, and
including the time, as provided for in the policy, in which the
said insurance was to be paid to the plaintiff herein, there
were insured by it in class AA, the same class in which said
Doctor Barry was at the time insured, 4803 members or per-

IUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

105

Statement of the Case.

sons upon whom the defendant could have levied an assessment, under its by-laws and rules, of the two dollars per head,
making an amount exceeding the plaintiff's claim of $5000.
This amendment was objected to, but the defendant took no
exception.
The defendant then demanded that the court submit a
special verdict in the case, as provided by the rules of practice
in the State of Wisconsin, and, as a question upon such special
verdict, requested the court to submit the following question:
"Whether the death of Dr. Barry was caused by duodenitis ?" The demand was refused and the defendant excepted.
The defendant then asked the court to submit, in connection
with the general verdict, the special question as to whether
the assured died of duodenitis. The request was refused and
the defendant excepted.
The defendant then requested the court to charge the jury
as follows: "It appears from the evidence in this case that by
the policy in suit the defendant company accepted John S.
Barry as a member of class AA, and in effect agreed to levy
an ssessment of two dollars upon each member of said class
and to pay the same to the plaintiff if said John S. Barry
should die of bodily injuries, effected through external, violent
and accidental means, but in no event to pay more than $5000.
Before the plaintiff can recover in this case she must show
that the defendant, when it received the proof of death on or
about July 15th, 1883, either had cash on hand belonging to
class $LA, or levied an assessment upon the members, and by
that means the defendant received money which belonged to
class AA. By the evidence in suit it appears that there were
over 4000 members belonging to class AA during the months
of June and July, 1883, who were subject to assessment of
two dollars per man, and that, on June 1st, 1883, an assessment was made upon members belonging to class AA, and
that on June 29th, 1883, the defendant had on hand $2060.15
belonging to class AA, and that an assessment was then pending and in process of collection. This evidence does not show
any cash on hand belonging to class AA on July 15th or at
any later date, nor is there any other evidence in the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

which would show that fact or that any assessment was levied.
Therefore the plaintiff cannot recover in this action, and you
are instructed to return a verdict for the defendant." The court
refused to give this instruction 'and, the defendant excepted.
The defendant then separately requested the court to charge
the jury to find for the defendant because no accident within
the true intent and meaning of the policy occurred to Dr.
Barry; and that he did not die from duodenitis; and that they
must find for the defendant if he, in jumping, alighted squarely
on his feet, or if they found that the jump did not result in
thi obstruction or occlusion of the duodenum; and that there
was no evidence of any wrenching, twisting, or straining of
the body in the jumping; and that, considering the character
of the injury alleged in the case and the difficulty attending
its proper investigation, great weight should be given by the
jury to the opinion of scientific witnesses accustomed to investigate the causes and effects of injury to the alimentary canal,
and a distinction should be made in favor of the opinion of
those accustomed to use the most perfect instruments and processes, and who are acquainted with the most recent discoveries in science and the most perfect methods of treatment and
investigation.
The court refused to give these instructions severally, and
the defendant excepted to each refusal.
The defendant also separately requested the court to charge
the jury that their verdict must be for the defendant if they.
found that the alleged injury was not sustained by Dr. Barry,
or that the injury was not effected through violent means, or
through accidental means, or through external means, or
that death occurred directly or indirectly in consequence of
disease or bodily infirmity, or partly or wholly from disease,
or not from duodenitis; and that they were not at liberty to
speculate as to what, occurred in the jump, but must be governed by the evidence of witnesses on the trial.
The court refused to give these instructions severally, except
as contained in its general charge, and the defendant excepted
to each refusal. This makes it necessary to set forth the parts
of the charge to the jury which are involved in the several

M1UTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATI0'

v. BAlRY.

107

Statement of the Case.

requests. They are as follows, and the defendant excepted
at the time separately to each part which is contained in
brackets:
, "By the terms of tlle certificate it was provided that, to
entitle the beneficiary to the sum of five thousand dollars, the
death should be occasioned by bodily injuries alone, effected
through external, violent and accidental means; also, that the
benefits of the insurance should not extend to any injury of
which there was no external and visible sign, nor to any injury
happening, directly or indirectly, in consequence of disease, nor
to any death or disability caused wholly or in part by bodily
infirmities or disease existing prior or subsequent to the date
of the certificate, nor to any case except where the injury was
the proximate or sole cause of the disability or death.
"The issue between the parties may be briefly stated: It is
claimed by the plaintiff that on the occasion mentioned by
Dr. Hirschmann, when the deceased was at Iron Mountain, he
sustained an injury by jumping from a platform to the ground;
that this injury was effected by such means as are mentioned in
the certificate; that the deceased, at the time of the alleged
accident, was in sound physical condition and in robust health;
and that the alleged injury was the proximate and sole cause
of death.
"The defendant, on the other hand, denies that the deceased sustained any injury that was effected through accidental means, and also contends, that, if any injury was sustained,
it was one of which there was no external or visible sign, within
the meaning of the policy, and that the supposed injury was
not the cause of the death of the deceased, but that he died
from natural causes. The case, therefore, resolves itself into
three points of inquiry:
"First. Did Dr. Barry sustain internal injury by his jump
from the platform on the occasion testified to by Dr. Hirschmann.
"Second. If he did sustain injury as alleged, was it effected
through external, violent and accidental means, within the
sense and meaning of this certificate, and was it an injury of
-whichthere was an external and visible sign?

OCTOBER TERIM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

"Third. If he was injured as claimed, was that injury the
proximate cause of his death?
"To entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, each and all of these
questions must be answered by you is the affirmative, and if,
under the testimony, either one of them must be negatively
answered, then your verdict must be for the defendant.
[" The first question (viz., Was the deceased, Dr. Barry, injured by jumping from the platform?) is so entirely a question
of fact, to be determined upon the testimony, that the court
must submit it without discussion to your determination. In
passing upon the question, you will consider all the circumstances of the occurrence as laid before you in the testimony;
the apparent previous physical condition of Dr. Barry; the
subsequent occurrences and circumstances tending to show the
change in his condition; the relation in time which the first
developments of any trouble bore to the time when he jumped
from the platform; the nature of his last sickness; and the
symptoms disclosed in its progress and termination.]
"Further, you will inquire what evidence, if any, did the
post-mortem examination and any and all subsequent examinations of the parts alleged to have been the seat of the supposed injury furnish of an actual physical injury; [what connection, if any, does there or does there not appear to be
between the act of jumping from the platform and the subsequent events and circumstances which culminated in death,
including the result, as yo-u shall find it .to be, of the post-morten investigations. The question is before you in the light of
all proven facts, for determination. The court cannot indicate any opinion upon it, without invading your exclusive
province; and by your ascertainment of the fact the parties
must be bound.]
["There is presented in the case a train of circumstances.
Do they or not, so to speak, form a chain connecting the ultimate result with such a previous cause as is alleged? Was
the act of jumping from the platform *adequate or inadequate
to produce an internal injury? Thus you may properly pursue the inquiry, guided by and keeping within the limits of
the testimony.]

MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

109

Statement of the Case.

"If you find that injury was sustained, then the next question is, Was it effected through external, violent and accidental means? This is a pivotal point in the case, and therefore
vitally important. The means must have been external, violent and accidental. Did an accident occur in the means
through which the alleged bodily injury was effected?
[" The jumping off the platform was the means by which
the injury, if any was sustained, was caused.]
[" Now, was there anything accidental, unforeseen, involuntary, unexpected, in the act of jumping, from the time the
deceased left the platform until he alighted on the ground?]
, [" The term ' accidental' is here used in its ordinary, popular
sense, and in that sense it means 'happening by chance; unexpectedly taking place; not according to the usual course of
things;' or not as expected.]
[" In other words, if a result is such as follows from ordinary means voluntarily employed in a not unusual or unexpected way, then, I suppose, it cannot be called a result effected
by accidental means.]
["But if in the act which precedes the injury something
unforeseen, unexpected, unusual, occurs, which produces the
injury, then the injury has resulted from the accident or
through accidental means.]
[" We understand, from the testimony, without question,
that the deceased jumped from the platform with his eyes
open, for his own convenience, in the free exercise of his
choice, and not from any perilous necessity. He encountered
no obstacle in jumping, and he alighted on the ground in an
erect posture. So far we proceed without difficulty; but you
must go further and itquire, aud here is the precise point on
which the question turns: Was there or not any unexpected or
unforeseen or involuntary movement of the body, from the
time Dr. Barry left the platform until he reached the ground,
or in the act of alighting? Did he or not alight on the gTound
just as he intefided to do? Did he accomplish just what he
intended to, in the way he intended to? Did he or not unexpectedly lose or relax his self-control, in his downward movement? Did his feet strike the ground as he intended or

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

expected, or did they not? Did he or not miscalculate the
distance, and was there or not any involuntary turning of the
body, in the downward movement, or in the act of alighting
on the ground? These aie points directly pertinent to the
question in hand.]
"And I instruct you that if Dr. Barry jumped from the
platform and alighted on the ground in the way he intended
to do, and nothing unforeseen, unexpected or involuntary occurred, changing or affecting the downward movement of his
body as he expected or would naturally expect such a movement to be made, or causing him to strike the ground in any
different way or position from that which he anticipated orwould naturally anticipate, then any resulting injury was not
effected through any accidental means. [But if, in jumping
or alighting on the ground, there odcurred, from any cause,
any unforeseen or involuntary movement, turn, or strain of
the body, which brought about the alleged injury, or if there
occurred any unforeseen circumstance which interfered with
or changed such a downward movement as he expected to
make, or as it would be natural to expect under such circumstances, and as caused him to alight on the ground in a different position or way from that which he intended or expected,
and injury thereby resulted, then the injury would be attributable to accidental means.]
"Of course it is to be presumed that he expected to reach
the ground safely and without injury. jiTow, to simplify the
question and apply to its consideration a common-sense rule,
did anything, by chance or not as expected, happen, in the
act of jumping or striking the ground, which caused an accident? This, I think, is the test by which you should be governed, in determining whether the alleged injury, if any was
sustained, was or was not effected through accidental means.]
-".You have the testimony in relation to the occurrence
which it is claimed by the plaintiff produced in Dr. Barry a
mortal injury. Taking it all into consideratioll and applying
to the facts the instruction of the court, you will determine
whether, if any injury was sustained, it was effected through
external, violent, and accidental means. The defendant claims

MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

III

Statement of the Case.

that, if Dr. Barry did sustain injury, it was one of which
there was no external and visible sign, within the meaning of
the certificate of insurance, and therefore, that the plaintiff is
not entitled to recover. [Counsel are understood to contend
that no recovery could be had under a certificate of insurance
in the form and terms of this one, if the injury was wholly internal. In that view the court cannot concur. It is true
there must be an external and visible sign of the injury, but it
does not necessarily follow from that that the injury must be
external. That is not the meaning or construction of the certificate. Such an interpretation of the contract would, in the
opinion of the court, sacrifice substance to shadow and convert the contract itself into a snare, an instrument for the
isible signs of injury, within
destruction of valuable rights.
the meaning of this certificate, are not to be confined to
broken limbs or bruises on the surface of the body. There
may be other external indications or evidence which are visible signs of internal injury. Complaint of pain is not a visible sign, because pain you cannot see. Complaint of internal
soreness is not such a sign, for that you cannot see, but if the
internal injury produces, for example, a pale and sickly look
in the face, if it causes vomiting or retching, or bloody or unnatural discharges from the bowels, if, in short, it sends forth
to the observation of the eye, in the struggle of nature, any
signs of the injury, then those are external and visible signs,
provided they are the direct results of the injury; and, with
this understanding of the meaning of the certificate of insurance, and upon the evidence, you will say whether, if Dr.
Barry was injured as claimed, there were or were not external
and visible signs of the injury; and the determination of this
point will involve the consideration of the question whether
what are claimed here to have been external and visible signs
were, in fact, produced by -were the result of - the injury,
if any was sustained.]
"The next question is, if Dr. Barry was injured as claimed,
was the injury the sole or proximate cause of his death? Interpreting and enforcing the certificate of insurance according
to its letter and spirit, it must be held that, if any other cause

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

than the alleged injury produced death, there can be no recovery, so that, to entitle the plaintiff to recover, you must be

satisfied that the alleged injury was the proximate cause of
death. Whether a cause is proximate or remote does not depend alone upon the closeness in the order of time in which
certain things occur. An efficient, adequate cause being
found, it must be deemed the true cause, unless some other
cause not incidental to it, but independent of it, is shown to
have intervened between it and the result. If, for example,
the deceased sustained injury to an internal organ, and that
necessarily produced inflammation, and that produced a disordered condition of the injured part, whereby other, organs
of the body could not perform their natural and usual functions, and in consequence the injured person died, the death
could be properly attributed to the original injury. In other
words, if these results followed the injury as its necessary
consequence, and would not have taken place had it not been
for the injury, then I think the injury could be said to be the
proximate or sole cause of death; but if an independent disease or disorder supervened upon the injury, if there was an
injury - I mean a disease or derangement of the parts not necessarily produced by the injury - or if the alleged injury merely
brought into activity a then existing, but dormant, disorder
or disease, and the death of the deceased resulted wholly or
in part from such disease, then it could not be said that the
injury was the sole or proximate cause of death.
"It is claimed by the plaintiff that the supposed jar or
shock said to have been produced by jumping from the platform caused some displacement in the duodenum; that it
became occluded, to use the expression that has been used by
witnesses; that there was constriction and occlusion of that
intestine, which was accompanied with consequent inflammation- in short, that the deceased had duodenitis, as the direct
result of the alleged original injury, and in consequence died.
This contention is urged upon all the circumstances of the case,
and upon the testimony offered by the plaintiff tending to
show the symptoms which accompanied the last sickness, the
diagnosis of the case made by attending physicians, and the

AIUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

113

Statement of the Case.

alleged developments of the autopsy. It is contended in
behalf of the defendant, that there was no constriction, occlusion, or inflammation of thie duodenum; that the deceased did
not have duodenitis; and that no physical iqjury is shown to
have resulted from jumping from the platform. This claim is
based upon the contention that the various symptoms manifested in the last sickness of the deceased were consistent with
natural causes, with some undiscovered organic trouble not
occasioned by violence or sudden injury; that the conclusions
of the physicians who made the post-mortem examination were
erroneous; and that the microscopic examination of the parts
in New York demonstrated such alleged error. Concerning
the microscopic test made in New York by Dr. Carpenter, the
plaintiff contends that it is not reliable and should not be accepted, for reasons urged in argument and which I need not
repeat.
"Now, between these conflicting claims weighing and
giving due consideration to all the testimony, you must judge.
If the deceased died of some disease or disorder not necessarily
resulting from the original injury, if there was an injury, then
the defendant is not liable under this certificate of insurance;
but if the deceased received an internal injury which in direct
course produced duodenitis, and thereby caused his death, then
the injury was the proximate cause of death.
"In considering this case you ought not to adopt theories
without proof, nor to substitute bare possibility for positive
evidence of facts testified to by credible witnesses. Mere
possibilities, conjectures, or theories should not be allowed to
take the place of evidence; where the weight of credible testimony proves the existence of a fact, it should be accepted as
a fact in the case. Where, if at all, proof is wanting and the
deficiency remains throughout the case, the allegation of fact
should be deemed not established.
"There has been considerable testimony given by physicians,
what we call expert testimony, and in the consideratioi of
that testimony it is your province to determine which of these
medical witnesses is right in his statement, opinion, or judgment. It is purely a question of fact for you, which of these
VOL. 0xX-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

physicians was most competent to form a judgment as to the
cause of Dr. Barry's death. Who has had the best opportimities for forming a judgment as to the cause of death?
"All this is to be taken into consideration by you in weighing and deliberating upon this evidence.
"I am asked to instruct you that, before the plaintiff can
recover, she must show that when the defendant received the
proofs of death, on or about July 15, 1883, it either had cash
on hand belonging to class AA, or that it levied an assessment
upon the members, and by that means received money which
belonged to class AA. This construction of the certificate is
upon the theory that, to entitle the plaintiff to recover, it is
essential to show either that it had money on hand with which
to meet this loss, or that it has made an assessment from which
the loss can be paid.
"This instruction I must decline to give you, for the reason
that it appears from the evidence that there were more than a
sufficient number of members in class AA to pay the five
thousand dollars on this certificate, if an assessment were to
be made; and I regard it the duty of the association to make
the assessment when the death loss is proved, and where the
case is one upon which the association is liable to pay the loss.
"Now, to sum up the case, if you find from the evidence
that the deceased, on the 20thY day of June, 1883, sustained a
bodily injury, and that such injury was effected through external, violent and accidental means, and was one of which
there was an external and visible sign, and that the injury was
the proximate or sole cause of death, then the plaintiff should
have a verdict in her favor.
"If, on the contrary, you fincd either that the injury was
not sustained, or that, if it was sustained, it was not effected
through external, violent and accidental means, or was an injury of which there was no external and visible sign, or that
it was not the proximate or sole cause of death, then your
verdict should be for the defendant.
"If you find the plaintiff entitled to recover you will render a verdict in her favor for the sum of five thousand dollars,
with interest at 7 per cent, computed from the 15th of Sep

MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

115

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tember, 1883, to the present time, adding the interest to the
principal, so that your verdict will show the gross sum."
After the charge had been given, a juryman inquired: "1Is
there any evidence showing that the association did make an
assessment after receiving proof of Dr. Barry's death 1" The
court replied: ["There is some proof on that subject. You
need not take that into consideration at all, for I have instructed you that if you should find the facts as I have stated
them to you the plaintiff is entitled to recover. You need not
take into consideration the matter of assessment."] The defendant excepted to the part in brackets.
. 1r. B. E. Miller, Jr., for plaintiff in error.
I. The court erred in not directing a special verdict.
The Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, 1887, § 2858, provides:
"The court in its discretion may, and when either party at or
before the close of the testimony and before any argument to
the jury is made or waived shall so request, the court shall
direct the jury to find a special verdict. Such verdict shall
be prepared by the court in the form of questions in writing,
relating to only material issues of fact and admitting a direct
answer, to which the jury shall make answer in writing. The
court may also direct the jury, if they render a general verdict, to find in writing upon any particular question of fact,
to be stated as aforesaid. In every action for the recovery of
money only or specific real property, the jury may in their
discretion when not otherwise directed by the court render a
general or a special verdict."
If requested in proper time it is obligatory upon the judge
to submit a special verdict; "the court shall direct the jury to
find a special verdict." Schatz v. Pfeil, 56 Wisconsin, 429;
Fenelon v. Butts, 53 Wisconsin, 344. This is the general rule
in States where a similar rule is in force. This statute is binding on the Federal Courts. Rev. Stat. § 914; Indianapolis,
&c. Railroadv. Horst, 93 U. S. 29i, 301.
There are two forms of procedure in Wisconsin: one by an
ordinary special verdict, in which the jury decides all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

facts, and upon which a judgment is rendered as in Easton v.
Eodgeg, 106 U. S. 408; the second method is by submitting a
general verdict and adding certain special questions.
In the case at bar a special verdict was demanded, and
when that was refused a special finding was requested.
The error assigned refers only to the refusal of the court to
submit a special verdict. The refusal to submit a special finding in addition to the general verdict was clearly not error in
view of the decision in IndianapolisRailroad Co. v. Horst, 93
U. S. 299. It would seem, that a particular form of rendering a verdict was certainly a "form or mode of proceeding"
within the true intent and meaning of the statute. Chateaugay Ore & Iron Co., Petitioner, 128 U. S. 544.
II. The trial court erred in not restricting the case to the
issues made up by the pleadings.
The issue by the pleadings was "accidental death from
duodenitis." The issue submitted by the court was accidental
death from anything.
The complaint alleges that deceased jumped off a low platform and "unexpectedly received an accidental jar and sudden
wrenching of his body caused by said jump." "That the said
jarring of his person and wrenching of his body caused as
aforesaid was the immediate cause of and directly produced a
stricture of the duodenum from the effects of which
[he] died." The answer denies this. So the issue certainly
was whether the insured died of duodenitis caused by an
accident.
It is a general rule that the allegata and probata must agree.
If a party plead with too great particularity he must make his
proof accordingly.
The plaintiff alleged an accidental injury to duodenum.
The defendant denied such an accident. The proof was
directed almost entirely to this question. The court left it
generally to the jury to say whether there was any accidental
injury of any kind; thus submitting to the jury questions not
raised by the pleadings or covered by the evidence.
III. There was no evidence to support the verdict because
no accident was shown.

IUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATIOIN v. BARRY.

117

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The policy was to insure Dr. Barry against death by accident, provided he "shall have sustained bodily injuries effected
through external, violent and accidental means . . . and
such injuries alone shall have occasioned death." ":Provided,
always, that benefits under this certificate shall not extend to
hernia nor to any bodily injury of which there shall be no
visible sign nor to any bodily injury happening directly or indirectly in consequence of disease nor to any death or disability
which may have been caused wholly or in part by bodily infirmities or disease . . . nor to any case except where the
injury is the proximate or sole cause of the disability or death
nor to any case of death or personal injury unless
the claimant, under this certificate, shall establish by direct
and positive proof that the said death or personal injury was
caused by external, violent and accidental means."
The court instructed the jury as follows: " N ow, was there
anything accidental, unforeseen, involuntary, unexpected in
the act of jumping, from the time the deceased left the platform until he alighted on the ground? v
Again, " Was there or not any unexpected or unforeseen or
involuntary movement of the body from the time Dr. Barry
left the platform until he reached the ground or in the act of
alighting? Did he or not alight on the ground just as he intended to? Did he accomplish just what he intended to, in
the way he intended to? Did he or not unexpectedly lose or
relax his self-control in his downward movement? Did his
feet strike the ground as he intended or expected, or did they
not? Did he not miscalculate the distance, and was there or
not any involuntary turning of the body in the downward
movement or in the act of alighting on the ground? These
are points directly pertinent to the question in hand."
Again. "But if, in jumping or alighting on the ground,
there occurred from any cause, any unforeseen or involuntary
movement, turn or strain of the body which brought about
the alleged injury, or if there occurred any unforeseen circumstances which interfered with or changed such a downward
movement as he expcted to make or as it would be natural to
expect under such circumstances, and as caused him to alight

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

on the ground in a different position or way from that which
he intended or expected, and injury thereby resulted, then the

injury would be attributable to accidental means."
There is no evidence that any one of these things happened.
So far as the evidence goes, Dr. Barry voluntarily jumped off
the platform, alighted squarely on his feet without falling, in
fact did exactly what he intended to do and in the way intended.
An "accident" is defined to be "an event from an unknown
cause," or "an unusual and unexpected event from a known
cause." The death in this case was not caused by such an
accident. Southard v. Railway &c. Assurance Co., 34: Connecticut, 574; .MCarthy v. Travellers' Insurance Co., 8 Bissell,
362.
If there was an accident it does not follow from the evidence that he died therefrom.
After the jump they all went to a'drug-store and met some
gentlemen there. The deceased drove all the way home.
He was ill that night and, continued ill till the date of
his death, and although he may have died of an obstruction
of the bowels or even from duodenitis, there is absolutely no
evidence that his death was caused by the jump. It is a clear
case of post hooproter hoc.
IV. No recovery at law was recoverable in this action, certainly not for more than nominal damages.
The policy of insurance provided that "the principal sum
represented by the payment of $2 by each member in division
AA . . . as provided in the by-laws," should be paid to
Mgrs. Barry.
The by-laws provide that "the board of directors shall
.
. order an assessment of $2 upon each person
and pay the amount so collected." No evidence of an assessment was offered or given.
The contract between the parties is not that the defendant
will absolutely pay $5000 or any other sum, but that it will
levy an assessment and pay over the proceeds thereof. Plaintiff's remedy was clearly in equity for a specific performance
and even if an action at law will lie it would be for breach of

MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v. BARRY.

119

Opinion of the Court.

covenant; the damages would be merely nominal. Curtis v.
Mutual Bene.Rt -LifeIns. Co., 48 Connecticut, 98; Eggleston v.
Centennial iMutual Zfe Association, 18 Fed. Rep. 14; Smith
v. Covenant Benefit Association, 24 Fed. Rep. 685; Covenant
Benef§t Association v. Sears, 114 Illinois, 108; In re La Solidwriti -MutualBenefit Association, 68 California, 392; Rainsbarger v. Union MJfutual Aid Association, 72 Iowa, 191; Bailey v. .3futual Benefit Association, 71 Iowa, 689; Nfewman v.
Covenant -MutualBenefit Association, 72 Iowa, 242; Tobin v.
Western .MutualAid Society, 72 Iowa, 261.
3.&. William F. lilas for defendant in error.
MA'. George .Mc Whoeter and -3b'. C. B. Bice filed a brief for
defendant in error.
AIR. JusTioE BLATCiFoRD, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.

(1) When the trial took place, in December, 1885, the following provision of the state statute was in force in Wisconsin,
(Rev. Stat. of Wisconsin, 1878, 760, § 2858, title 25, c. 128:)
"The court, in its discretion, may, and when either party,
at or before the close of* the testimony and before any argument to the jury is made or waived, shall so request, the court
shall direct the jury to find a special verdict. Such verdict
shall be prepared by the court in the form of questions, in
writing, relating only to material issues of fact and admitting
a direct answer, to which the jury shall make answer in writ-*
ing. The court may also direct the jury, if they .render a
general verdict, to find in writing upon any particular questions of fact to be stated as aforesaid. In every action for the
recovery of money only, or 4pecific real property, the jury
may, in their discretion, when not otherwise directed by the
court, render a general or a special verdict."
It is contended, for the defendant, that the court erred in
refusing its demand to submit a special .vordict in the case, as
provided by the rules of practice in the State. It is, however,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

conceded, in the brief of its counsel, that the refusal to submit
a special question in connection with the general verdict, was
not error, in view of the ruling of this court in Indianapolis
Railroad Co. v. Horst, 93 U. S. 291, 299. In that case this
court adhered to its views expressed in 3Tudd v. Burrows, 91
'U.S. 426, 442, that the personal conduct and administration
of the judge in the discharge of his separate functions was
neither practice, pleading, nor a form or mode of proceeding,
within the meaning of § 5 of the act of June 1, 1872, 17 Stat.
197, now § 914 of the Revised Statutes, and further said that
the statute was not intended to fetter the judge in the personal discharge of his accustomed duties, or to trench upon the
common law powers with which in that respect he is clothed.
This principle has been uniformly applied since by this court;
and we are of opinion that it covers the demand made in this
case that the court should submit a special verdict, as provided
by the rules of practice in the State of Wisconsin, and should
submit the particular question mentioned in that connection.
(2) It is also urged as error that the court did not restrict
the case to the issue made by the pleadings; that that issue
was, that the assured died from "a stricture of the duodenum,"
produced by the accident; and that the issue submitted by the
court was accidental death from anything. The court very
properly refused to instruct the jury that the assured did not
die from duodenitis; and its response to the request to instruct
them that if they found he did not die from duodenitis their
verdict must be for the defendant, was, that it refused to give
that instruction "except as contained in the general charge."
It is contended, however, for the defendant, that, in the
general charge, the jury were charged, in effect, that, if the
assured sustained internal injury of any kind by his jump, and
died therefrom, the plaintiff could recover. But we do not so
understand the charge. In a part of it, before set forth, and
not excepted to by the defendant, the court distinctly laid
before the jury the issue as to the constriction or occlusion of
the duodenum, and the contentions of the two parties in regard
thereto, and told the j.ury that they must judge between those
conflicting claims, weighing and giving due consideration to

MUTUAL ACCIDENT ASSOCIATION v.BARRY. 121
Opinion of the Court.

all the testimony, and that if the deceased received an internal
injury which in direct course produced duodenitis, and thereby
caused his death, then the injury was the proximate cause of
death.
(3) It is further urged that there was no evidence to support the verdict bebause no accident was shown. We do not
concur in this view. The two companions of the deceased
jumped from the same platform, at the same time and place,
and alighted safely. It must be presumed not only that the
deceased intended to alight safely, but thought that he would.
The jury were, on all the evidence, at liberty to say that it
was an accident that he did not. The court properly instructed them that the jumping off the platform was the
means by which the injury, if any was sustained, was caused;
that the question was, whether there was anything accidental,
unforeseen, involuntary, unexpected, in the act of jumping,
from the time the deceased left the platform until he alighted
on the ground; that the term "accidental" was used in the
policy in its ordinary, popular sense, as meaning "happenin g
by chance; unexpectedly taking place; not according to the
usual course of things; or not as expected ;" that, if a result
is such as.follows from ordinary means, voluntarily employed,
in a not unusual or unexpected way, it cannot be called a
result effected by accidental means; but that if, in the act
which precedes the injury, something unforeseen, unexpected,
unusual occurs which produces the injury, then the injury has
resulted through accidental means. The jury were further
told, no exception being taken, that, in considering the case,
they ought not to adopt theories without proof, or substitute
bare possibility for positive evidence of facts testified to by
credible witnesses; that where the weight of credible testimony proved the existence of a fact, it should be accepted as
a fact in the case; but that where, if at all, proof was wanting, and the deficiency remained throughout the case, the
allegation of fact should not be deemed established.
In .artia- v. Taveller' Ins. Co., 1 Foster & Fin. 505, the
policy was against any bodily injury resulting from any accident or violence, "provided that the injury should be occa-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

sioned by any external or material cause operating on the
person of the insured." In the course of his business he lifted
a heavy burden and injured his spine. It was objected that
he did not sustain bodily injury by reason of an accident.
Theplaintiff recovered.
In Nortk American Ins. Co. v. Burrougis,69 Penn. St. 43,
the policy was against death "in consequence of accident,"
and was to be operative only in case the death was caused
solely by an "accidental injury." It was held that an accidental strain, resulting in death, was an accidental injury
within the meaning of the policy, and that it included death
from any unexpected event happening by chance, and not
occurring according to the usual course of things.
The case of Southardv. Railway Passengers' Assurance Co.,
34 Connecticut, 574, is relied on by the defendant. That
case, though pending in a state court in Connecticut, was
decided by an arbitrator, who was then the learned district
judge of the United States for the District of Connecticut.
But if there is anything in that decision inconsistent with the
present one, we must dissent from its views.
(4) It is contended that no recovery at law could be had on
this policy, or, at most, only one for nominal damages, on the
ground that the contract of the defendant was not to pay any
sum absolutely, but only to levy an assessment and pay over
the proceeds; and that the remedy of the plaintiff was solely
in equity, for a specific performance of the contract.
The policy says: "The principal sum represented by the
payment of two dollars by each member in division AA of the
association as provided in the' by-laws," not to exceed $5000,
"to be paid" to the wife. Although the by-laws state that
the object of the association "is to collect and accumulate a
fund" for the purpose named, and that, on the requisite proof
of bodily injury to, and the death of, a member of a division,
the board of directors shall immediately order an assessment of
two dollars upon each person who was a member of the division to which the deceased belonged at the time of his death,
and pay the amount so collected, according to the prescribed
schedule of classification, to the proper beneficiary, the policy

