OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

TERRY v. SHARON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1462. Submitted April 8, 1889. -Decided

May 13,1889.

In a bill in equity in a Circuit Court of the United States to revive, in the
name of the executor of the plaintiff, a suit in equity which had gone to
final decree, a decree of revival, entered after due notice to defendants,
and after their appearance and pleading to the bill, is a final decree, from
which an appeal lies to this court.
When a cause in equity in a Circuit Court, from which an appeal would lie
to this court, has gone to final decree, and the executor of the plaintiff
files his bill in that court to revive the suit in his name, and his prayer is
granted, and an appeal is taken from the decree granting it, this court
will not, on the hearing of that appeal, consider the merits of the original
case, nor the jurisdiction of the court below over it if there is sufficient
in the record to give an apparent jurisdiction.

THIS was a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, because the order or decree from which the appeal was taken
was not a final decree.
To this motion was also added, under rule 6, (108 U. S. 575,)
a motion to affirm on the ground that, although the record in
the said cause might show that this court had jurisdiction in
the premises, yet it was manifest that said appeal was taken
for delay only, and that the question on which such jurisdiction depends was so frivolous as.not to need further argument.
The case was stated by the court as follows:
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of California, and is now before us
upon a motion on the part of the appellee to dismiss the appeal
or to affirm the decree below.
The appeal, which was the subject of this dual motion, is
from an order of the Circuit Court, reviving a suit in equity
after a final decree in the case had been made and after the
death of William Sharon, the plaintiff in that suit. Sharon

TERRY v. SHARON.
Statement of the Case.

died after the case had been submitted to the court but before
its decision, and the court, finding in his favor, ordered the
decree to be entered nune pro tune,. as of the date of submission. The object of the original suit was to have a decree,
declaring the nullity and invalidity of a certain instrument in
writing purporting to be a declaration of marriage between
the complainant, William Sharon, and Sarah Althea Hill, the
defendant. The decree which was rendered in that case declared that said instrument was false, fabricated, forged, fraudulent, and utterly null and void, and directed that it be cancelled and set aside. It further decreed, that upon twenty
days' notice of the decree to the respondent, or to her solicitors,
the instrument be delivered by the respondent to and deposited
with the clerk of the court to be indorsed "Cancelled;" and the
defendant was perpetually enjoined from alleging its genuineness or validity, or making any use of the same in evidence or
otherwise to support any right or claim under it. The decree
itself was rendered on November 23, 18S5, and was entered
as of September 29 of that year, the date of submission.
On March 12, 1888, Frederick W. Sharon, as executor of
William Sharon, deceased, filed his bill of revivor in the cause,
setting forth the fact of the death of William Sharon, and
that he left a will, which was duly probated, and on which
letters testamentary had issued to him as executor; that the
so-called declaration of marriage had not been delivered for
cancellation, as ordered by the decree; and that the plaintiff
feared the defendant would claim and seek to enforce property
rights as the wife of William Sharon, by virtue of said written
declaration of marriage. The bill of revivor further stated
that on January 7, 1885, the defendant, Sarah Althea Hill, had
intermarried with David S. Terry, and he was accordingly
made a defendant with her to the bill of revivor. It prayed,
therefore, that the suit might be revived in his name as executor, and that the defendants be required to show cause why
the original suit and proceedings should not stand revived
against them.
To this bill of revivor the defendants interposed a demurrer
which stated, among other things, that the court had no juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against the Motions.

diction of the subject matter of the suit, and no jurisdiction
to grant the relief prayed for in the bill, or any part thereof,
and that the bill did not contain any matter of equity whereon
the court could ground any decree or give to the plaintiff any
relief against the defendants, or either of them.
The Circuit Court entered an order overruling the demurrer,
and reviving the suit in the name of Frederick W. Sharon,
as executor of William Sharon, and against Sarah Althea
Terry and David S. Terry, her husband, and ordering that the
executor have the full benefit, rights and protection of the
decree, and full power to enforce the same against the defendants, and each of them, in all particulars. It is from this order
that the present appeal is taken.
.Mr. .enry -. -Davis and Mr. Samuel .M. Wilson for the
motions.
-Mr. Samuel Shellabarger and Mr. J. ..

Wilson opposing.

I. When a court renders a judgment in a proceeding where
it is absolutely without jurisdiction, the whole proceeding being
fansfld &c. Railway
a nullity, is open to attack collaterally.
v. Swam, 111 U. S. 379; 6n re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 220; E-lliott
v. Piersol, 1 Pet. 328; Iilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498;
flickey v. Stewart, 3 How. '750; Thompson v. Whitman, 18
Wall. 467 ; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241; Griffith v. Trazier,
8 Craunch, 9; Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Pet. 157; lFoorhies v.
Bank of United Statesi 10 Pet. 449; Wilcox v. .XcConnell, 13
Pet. 498; Shrive v. Zynn, 2 How. 43; Williamson v. Berry,
8 How. 495.
II. The relief prayed for in the original bill is that it be
decreed that the defendant "is not and never was the wife of"
the complainant. Conjugal relations, the existence, the continuance or the dissolution of marital relations are not the
subjects of Federal jurisdiction. Suits directed to the determination of the existence or non-existence of these relations are
not "suits of a civil nature" as that term is used in the acts
conferring jurisdiction upon the Circuit Courts of the United

TERRY v. SHARON.
Argument against the Motions.

States. Barber v. Barber, 21 How. 582; Fpasher v. State, 3
Texas App. 263; Ex rel.Hobbs, 1 Woods, 537; Green v. TheState, 58 Alabama, 190; State v. Gibson, 36 Indiana, 389;
lonas v. The State, 3 Heiskell, 287; Johnson v. Johnson, 13
Fed. Rep. 193.
The court will observe that this bill is not directed to the
cancellation of any instrument which conveys or which
directly affects any property rights cognizable either at law or
equity; that it does not seek either directly or otherwise, any
decree for any property, or securing any interest therein or
title thereto, or demanding any right cognizable in any court
of law or equity -unless the right to destroy said instrument
be one within the jurisdiction of United States courts of
equity; that, on the contrary, the real substance and effect of
such pretended equity suit is nothing more than one seeking
to put out of the way, and prohibit from being used in state
courts or otherwise, a mere item of proof, bearing upon the
existeneb of an alleged marriage relation, such proof being
made competent under the laws of California for said purpose;
that said item of proof, to wit, the written marriage contract,
is not one which, in any way, nearly or remotely, affects any
property right of the plaintiff, unless it remotely affects property rights through its tendency to prove complainant's marriage.
These things being carefully observed, and i&eing palpably
undeniable, it results from them: (1) That said written contract of marriage is not such an instrument as*courts of chancery ever have undertaken to cancel; and to so undertake is
no less absurd than for the court to undertake to abolish the
knowledge and recollection of such marriage possessed by living witnesses; and (2) that this being the character of the said
suit in equity, it is clearly not "a suit of a civil nature at law
or in equity" within the sense of these words defining the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court as found in ยง 629 of the
Revised Statutes.
III. Since the courts of the United States have no jurisdiction either over divorce, or over alimony, or over any rights
springing out of the relation of marriage, and since such courts

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against the Mlotions.

cannot intermeddle with this relation or its rights, can the
courts of the United States indirectly decide upon, control, or
abolish the existence, the enjoyment, or the dissolution of such
marriage relation by a judgment which determines that the
relation does not exist, and that the alleged wife shall not be
permitted to use, in any court or anywhere else, the evidence
of the lawfulness of her alleged marriage?
In other words, the law being that the courts of the United
States have no jurisdiction over the marriage relation and
rights, can such courts take jurisdiction of, abolish and cancel
the evidence of marriage which is provided by, and made
legal under, the laws of the States, and do this in such way
and sense as that the decree of the court shall, in legal .effect,
operate as a divorce of the wife, by prohibiting her from using
or asserting in any court, or anywhere, the evidence provided
by such laws for establishing her marriage?
With very great and unfeigned respect for the learning of
the judges who made the decision in question, it seems to us
that the answer to this question plainly must be in the negative.
This attempt to deprive the alleged wife, by decree of a United
States Court, of the evidence of her marriage, and to deprive
her of the right to use such evidence in the state courts which
alone have jurisdiction of the question of marriage or no marriage, divorce 6r no divorce, is in substance, and almost without disguise, an attempt to accomplish in such court the divorce
of the wife, and her deprivation of all rights of alimony, and
other marital rights. It is plainly and palpably an attempt
to accomplish, by indirection, what the court below, by means
of the limitations above named, which it gave to its decree,
6onfessed it had no jurisdiction over, to. wit, prohibiting her
from having, claiming, or asserting that she was a lawful wife.
It is an attempt, by slightly disguised indirection, to accomplish a divorce which the court recognized it had no power to
accomplish directly. If the court had power to cancel this
written evidence of marriage and prohibit its being used anywhere, then so, also, and equally, and for the same reason,
could the court abolish all other evidences of the marriage.

TERRY v. SHARO.
Opinion of the Court.

IV. The decree was final and appealable. The following
changes in the status of the parties took place after the original decree against Mrs. Hill. (1) Sharon died and thereby
devolved on Mrs. Sharon whatever property, if any, came
through his death. (2) The Superior Court rendered the
decree establishing the validity of the marriage and Mrs.
Terry's rights of alimony. (3) The defendant Hill had married Judge Terry, and his rights and interests in his wife's
,estates, whatever they were, attached after the original decree,
and after the death of Sharon. These changes rendered it
indispensably necessary that the bill of revivor, so called, should
be something else, or more than a technical bill of revivor, such
as is resorted to where no change has occurred except an abatement by death. On the contrary, it presents a case where, owing
to the death of Sharon and the marriage of his alleged wife to
Terry, new property rights had attached in favor of a new
and indispensable party to the suit, Judge Terry, whose interest in his wife's estate, as affirmed by the Supreme Court of
California, or otherwise established, could not be cut' off or
affected except by the means of being made party, as was here
done. That a decree such as is prayed for in this bill of revivor, so called, is a decree on an original bill, as distinguished
from a decree under a technical bill of revivor, is confidently
submitted.
MI.

JusTio

MIFLE,

after stating the case as above re-

ported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss the apipeal is based upon the proposition that the order reviving the suit is not such a final order
or decree as can be brought to this court for review. The
principal argument on that subject is, that like the proceedings subsequent to a judgment at law for its enforcement by
execution or otherwise, it is merely ancillary to the original
decree, and a mode of carrying it into effect. But we are not
satisfied that this is a sound argument, and if the case before
us rested alone upon the question of dismissing the appeal, or
overruling the motion to do so, we should feel compelled to
overrule the motion.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

The idea cannot be sustained that when a judgment or
decree is rendered against a defendant, and it remains wholly
unexecuted, anybody, without any right, authority, or interest
in the matter can come in, and, by filing a bill of revivor, or
by making a motion, have himself substituted for the plaintiff
who has deceased, with all the rights which that plaintiff
would have had to enforce the judgment or decree. Two
questions must always present themselves in such a case, or at
least may be presented; the one is, whether the decree is in
condition that any further action can be had, or any right
asserted under it by those who succeed the plaintiff as heirs,
devisees, executors or otherwise; and the other is, whether
the party who thus asserts the right to the benefit of the decree is entitled to such right, and is by law the person who
can claim its enforcement, or should, in ani, action or matter
arising out of the decree, represent the rights of the original
plaintiff. Both of these questions are matters which interest
the defendant in the original decree, and in regard to which
h6 must have a right to a hearing before the Circuit Court;
and the order of the Circuit Court on that subject is so far
final, and may so far affect the rights of the defendant, that
we think he is entitled to an appeal from such an order, if, in
other respects, it is one within the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court. If the defendant had not this right of resistance, he
might be harassed by suits to revive the judgment by any
number of parties claiming in different or opposing rights, and.
he surely must have some power to protect himself from this;
and the order which the court makes in such a case is so essentially decisive and important that we do not doubt that it
is appealable. The motion, therefore, to dismiss the appeal
must be overruled.
Turning to the alternative branch of this motion, which
claims that the order of the court, reviving the suit in the
name of Frederick W. Sharon, executor, should be affirmed,
because the appeal is frivolous and unwarranted by the facts
of the case, we think it should be granted. This order does
no more than place before the court in connection with the
case a person occupying the position of plaintiff in that suit in

TERRY v. SHARON.
Opinion of the Court.

the place of the deceased complainant, with such authority to
avail himself of all the rights determined in favor of Sharon
by the original decree as may be essential to the protection of
the estate of Sharon, or the interests of his heirs or devisees,
as they may be affected by that decree. That some one
should be substituted in the place of Sharon, the complainant
in that suit, who should be able to obtain the fruits of that litigation for the benefit of those who may be entitled to them,
is so much a matter of course that it is difficult to conceive of
a reason why such a substitution, through a bill of revivor,
the usual proceeding in chancery cases, should not be had. If
any objection had been made to the character in which Frederick W. Sharon asked to be made the representative of his
father, to his fitness for the place, or that some one else was
the proper person in whose name the suit should be revived,
there might be some ground for a full hearing on the merits
of the order. But no attempt is made to dispute the will of
William Sharon, the disposition which it makes of his property
or rights, or the validity of the appointment of Frederick W.
Sharon as executor of that will. There is no pretence, and
there was no effort to show in the court below, that if the
suit should be revived at all in the name of any person whatever, Frederick W. Sharon was not that person.
The broad ground taken, the only one worthy of consideration, and the one argued with great earnestness in the brief of
counsel for appellants, is that the court which rendered the
original decree was without jurisdiction; and that on the
motion to revive, that question should be considered, and if
the court was without jurisdiction in the original case, it can
have no jurisdiction to appoint an executor. This matter is
very fully argued in the briefs of counsel, and it is the only
point made in opposition to the motion to affirm the judgment
below. We have given it full consideration, and because it is
the only point, and because it has been fully and ably argued,
we have the less reluctance in passing in this mode upon the
merits of the order reviving the suit. We are satisfied that a
later, and even more full, oral argument would throw no additional light upon the subject we are called upon to consider.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

It would be a very anomalous proceeding for this court
now, on the mere review of the order reviving the suit and
appointing a new party to conduct it on the part of the plaintiff, to go back and decide upon the whole question which was
passed upon by the Circuit Court in the original decree. That
decree was open to appeal when it was rendered. If the defendant, Hill, was dissatisfied with it or believed it was erroneous, or made without jurisdiction, she had the right to
appeal to this court. It was not only open to her, but it was
the proper remedy if she desired to test it further. The order
substituting the executor as plaintiff in that suit grants no
new rights, does not enlarge that decree, and does not change
'its status, its construction or its validity. All the rights which
she would have had against William Sharon, the plaintiff in
that suit, she has against Frederick W. Sharon, who is substituted for him in the case. It would be productive of innumerable evils and delays if, on this proceeding to supply the
defect in the original suit, arising out of the death of the plaintiff, everything that had been done in that suit,. although there
was a final decree in the case, should be reconsidered and become the subject of renewed litigation.
If the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the original suit
were in any respect open to question on this appeal or on this
motion, we think that the record below presents so much of
the elements of jurisdiction as to need no further inquiry in
that direction in this }xroceeding. It appears by the record
that Sharon, the plaintiff in that suit, describes himself as a
citizen of the State of Nevada, and the defendant, Hill, as a
citizen of the State of California. This is sufficient to have
given jurisdiction of the parties, and the object of the suit, the
cancellation of-a forged instrument, is one of the common
heads of equity jurisdiction. A general demurrer was filed to
the bill, which the Circuit Court overruled. The defendant
then pleaded in abatement that she had brought an action
against the plaintiff in the state court of California, which she
alleged involved the same matter as that on which Sharon's
bill against her was founded. She also, as a further proposition in that plea, alleged that Sharon, the plaintiff, was not a

TERRY v. SHARON.
Opinion of the Court.

citizen of the State of Nevada, but was a citizen of the
State of -California. This plea, in both its branches, was
denied by Sharon, and, on a hearing, it was held to be bad
and overruled, as the court said in its decision, because no testimony was taken to support it. Thus it appears that this
matter of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was pleaded
and relied on in that suit, and the court overruled it.
We have not made this reference to the proceedings in the
court below with a view of reconsidering the soundness of
those decisions. It is sufficient to say that, as presented to us,
it is at least aprimnfaciecase of jurisdiction as between the
parties, and that the question of the soundness and correctness
of the decision of that court on the merits cannot be inquired
into in the present proceeding.
Let us suppose for a moment that the Circuit Court was at
liberty to make an order reviving this decree in the name of a
proper person, and it had refused to do so. Whatever injury
had been committed by the Circuit Court against Mr. Sharon
could not, on the theory of the appellants, be reviewed in this
court, because there would be no party to take an appeal, and
even the error of the court, in holding that it had no jurisdiction, could not be reviewed for want of somebody to do so.
Especially would this be so if the doctrine insisted on by the.
appellee be sound, that the order is not an appealable order..
On the other hand, let it be supposed that the defendant.
Hill, in that suit desired to take an appeal, as she had a. right
to do, from the decree against her, she could only take, such
an appeal and prosecute it by reviving the suit against some
party who must represent the Sharon interest.
The objection that the original suit and decree were without
jurisdiction would be as valid against an application by Miss
Hill to have some one substituted as plaintiff, in order that she
might take an appeal, as it can be in the case of the present
application by the plaintiff below. It is, we think, too clear
for any serious argument that the representatives of Sharon
had a right to supply the defect in the suit, created by the
death of the plaintiff, by a bill of revivor substituting a party
in the place of Sharon.
VOL. CxXXI-4

