OCTOBER TERAL,

88

1888.

Statement of the Case.

Lewis and wife had the right to contract that their grantee
should not hold possession of the property and at the same
time compel them to return the purchase money, and in either
aspect there could be no substantial recovery here.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory is
Ajflrmed.

FOWLE v. PARK.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 263. Argued April 17, 189.-

Decided May 13,1889.

A contract relating to a patent medicine which communicates its ingredients in confidence, and provides in substance that the parties shall enjoy
a monopoly of the sale of it, each within a defined region in the United
States, and that it shall not be sold below a certain rate or price, is not
unreasonable or invalid as in restraint of trade.
On the facts stated in the opinion: Held, that the defendants sold the balsam
within the prohibited territory, or to those by whom to their knowledge
it was to be there sold, and that, as the record disclosed violations of the
contracts in these respects, the cause should have gone to a master to

state an account.

THE case was stated by the court as follows:
Seth A. Fowle and Horace S. Fowle, citizens of Massachusetts, filed their bill of complaint against John D. Park, Ambro R. Park and Godfrey F. Park, citizens of Ohio, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District"
of Ohio, on the 28th day of March, A.D. 1884, alleging that
in 1844 one Lewis Williams, of Philadelphia, "prepared,
invented and compounded a certain medicinal preparation of
great and substantial value, for certain complaints and diseases, and assigned and adopted the name therefor of IWistar's
Balsam of Wild Cherry,' he being then the sole proprietor
and alone having knowledge of the nature and ingredients of
said preparation;" that in May, 1844, Willams "sold, assigned
and transferred for valuable consideration to him paid, to one
Isaac Butts of the State of New York, said preparation and a

FOWLE v. PARK.
Statement of the Case.

full and true copy of the receipt for preparing the same, under
the name of IWistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry,' with the sole
and exclusive right to manufacture and sell the said medicine
under said name or otherwise, in certain enumerated States,
counties, etc. ;" that in March, 1845, said Isaac Butts, "for and
in consideration of a large sum of money to him paid by Seth
W. Fowle," sold, conveyed and transferred to Fowle, his heirs,
assigns and personal representatives, "all his right, title and
interest in and to said preparation or medicine, and said
receipt with a true copy thereof, with the sole and exclusive
right to manufacture, sell and cause to be sold the said medicine in the States, provinces and counties above named, as
included in said transfer by Lewis Williams to the said Isaac
Butts;" that at the time of said transfer, and as a condition
thereof and part of the consideration therefor, Fowle agreed
"that neither he nor his personal representatives or assigns
would sell, cause to be sold, nor establish agencies for or be
concerned in the sale of said balsam in any part of the United
States, except those named in said transfer by Lewis Williams,
and that neither he nor they would sell or cause to be sold
said balsam anywhere for a less sum than seven dollars
and

-ff%

of a dollar ($7.20) net for each and every dozen

sold, or cause to be sold, except to agents for a whole State
or Territory, in which case such agent should not sell below said rate;" that all the rights thug acquired by Fowle
passed to the plaintiffs by purchase and inheritance; that
Fowle and plaintiffs as successors "have continued to manufacture from said receipt and sell said balsam under said name
from the year 1845 in large quantities up to the present time
throughout said Territory and not elsewhere, except west of
the ridge of the Rocky Mountains, as hereinafter stated," but
have not sold below the stipulated price, and have expended
great sums in establishing and increasing the business, and
built up a large trade and good will in connection with the
name "Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry," by which name
their manufacture of said medicine has become largely known,
they and the defendants herein being the only manufacturers
thereof on the continent, and being the only parties except

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Lucy A. S. Fowle, widow of said Seth W. Fowle, now having
knowledge of the secret of its preparation; that about 1845
Williams disclosed the secret and mode of this preparation to

Sanford and Park, and transferred to them a similar right to
that given Butts to manufacture and sell said preparation "in
certain parts of the then United States lying west of the territory included as aforesaid in said transfer to Seth W. Fowle,"
they agreeing not to sell on the territory of Butts, and the
right so acquired by Sanford and Park subsequently passed to
the defendant John D. Park, and the other defendants became
interested therein through him; "that between the years 1849
and 1864, the portion of country between the Rocky Mountains and the Pacific having become largely a part of the
United States, the said Seth W , Fowle and the said John D.
Park both sold small quantities of said 'Wistar's Balsam of
Wild Cherry ' for some time in said territory in competition ;"
"that in 1864 said parties entered into a contract whereby it
was agreed that the said Seth W. Fowle should have entire
control of such sales in said territory west of the ridge of the
Rocky Mountains free of all competition on the part of said
John D. Park, the latter being paid a valuable consideration
therefor by the said Fowle; that this arrangement continued
until after the death of the said Fowle in A.D. 1867, and until
on or about 1869, when the same terminated;" that in 1869
John D. Park entered into an agreement with Seth A. Fowle,
one of the complainants, and Lucy A. S. Fowle, whereby, in
consideration of $5000, he sold and transferred to them, their
legal representatives and assigns, all interest in, or right to, the
sale of said medicine west of the Rocky Mountains, and also
all interest in or right to the good will of selling said balsam
in said territory, and in the trade-mark on the labels, bottles,
wrappes and packages containing said medicine, and in
carrying on the business therein, said Park covenanting "for
himself, his assigns and representatives, in said agreement, that
the said Seth A. and Lucy A. S. Fowle and their assigns
should have and enjoy the sole and exclusive right of selling
said medicine within said limits," "free from any competition
or interference by him or any one under him or by his author-

FOWTE v. PARK.
Statement of the Case.

ity, permission, or aid, either directly or indirectly," etc.;
that in 1872, complainants acquired all the rights of Lucy A.
S. Fowle in said contract of 1869 with said John D. Park;
that the copartners of said John D. Park, defendants herein,,
"derived all their interest in, and right to, the manufacture
and sale of said balsam since the execution of said contract
of 1869 from said John D. Park, and with full knowledge and
subject thereto;" that the defendants and each of them have
failed to comply with the contract between Williams and Sanford and Park in that they have for ten years last past sold
and caused to be sold, and sold with knowledge or reason to
know that the same was to be resold, said balsam in the territory comprised in the transfer to Butts, in large quantities in
competition with complainants' trade, and have sold there and
elsewhere at a less price than seven dollars per dozen, and
have sold and caused to be sold said balsam in the territory
described in the contract of 1869 with John D. Park, and at a
lower price than seven dollars; and that complainants had
gone to large expense on the faith of that contract and built
up a large and valuable trade throughout the entire Pacific
coast with which defendants are interfering and injuring and
damaging complainants as well as interfering with their business east of the Allegheny MNountains. The bill, waiving an
oath, prays for answers, an injunction, and an accounting.
The defendants admit in their answer the invention of the
medicinal preparation and its name and the sale by Williams
to Butts and by Butts to Seth A. Fowle, and the sale by
Williams to Sanford and Park, which the defendants say
was made the year before the sale to Fowle; and that John
D. Park purchased the rights of Sanford and Park. They
call for a production of the agreement in 1864: between Seth
W. Fowle and John D. Park; they deny that they have sold
any of the balsam in the territory transferred to Butts;
they deny the sale of any balsam by them within the territory
west of the Rocky Mountains named in the contract with
John ID. Park ; and deny that they ever sold the balsam anywhere at less than seven dollars per dozen. They add to their
answer averments, by way of cross-bill, in which they state

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

their exclusive right to manufacture and sell the balsam in
those parts of the United States lying west of the territory
included in the sale from Williams to Butts, as well as those
States and counties named in the transfer of Williams to Sanford and Park, and assert that the Fowles, by putting up the
medicine in packages containing less than eight liquid ounces,
are selling the same for less than one-half of $7.20, and therefore the medicines of Fowle & Sons are sought for by dealers
selling medicine in defendants' territory, who buy and resell
the same to defendants' injury. They pray for answers, an
oath not being waived, and that complainants may be enjoined
from putting up for sale said medicine in packages of less size
than those in use on the 1st day of March, 1845, the date
of the contract between Butts and Fowle, and from selling
packages of said medicine of whatever quantity at a less price
than $7.20 per dozen, and for damages.
Complainants filed replication to defendants' answer, and
an answer under oath to their cross-bill, denying the assertion
of the defendants that they had the exclusive right to manufacture and sell in all the territory of the United States lying
west of that included in the sale and transfer from Williams to
Butts, and averring that defendants had no right to manufacture or sell in any of the territory. west of the ridge of the
Rocky Mountains. They say that no size of package was
stipulated for in the contract between Fowle and Butts, and
that the object of the stipulation was, that the medicine should
not be sold at a lower proportional rate than $7.20 for ten
ounces, and that they had never sold at any less rate; that
they have used a smaller size of bottle holding only four liquid
ounces, but the lowest net price they ever charged for them
has been at the rate of nine dollars per dozen bottles of ten
ounces; and that no sales thereof have ever been made by
them within the territory embraced in the contract between
Williams and Sandford and Park, and such sales as have been
made were made with full notice to defendants, with description and sample of bottle, and without objection, and they
deny all injury to defendants. To this answer replication was
duly filed.

FOWLE v. PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

The cause having been brought on for hearing, the agreement between Lewis Williams and Benjamin F. Sanford and
John D. Park, dated May 1st, 184; the agreement between
Williams and Butts dated May 20, 1844; the agreement
between Butts and Fowle, dated March 1st, 1845; the agreement between Fowle and Park, dated December 16, 1863 ; the
agreement between John D. Park and Seth A. Fowle and
Lucy Ann S. Fowle, dated November 17, 1869 ; the release of
Lucy Ann S. Fowle to Seth A. Fowle, January 1st, 1873; as
well as various letters of Fowle & Son in 1877 and 1878, to
Park & Sons, and a letter from Park & Sons to Fowle & Son,
in 1877; sundry invoices, bills, etc.; were put in evidence,
together with the testimony of several witnesses bearing upon
the question of sales by or with the knowledge of Park & Sons
in the territory claimed by Fowle & Son.
The court found "that the complainants are not entitled to
the relief prayed in their said bill of complaint," and thereupon dismissed complainants' bill at their costs and the crossbill of respondents at their costs, from which decree complainants prosecuted this appeal.
AfT. lenry A.
wovill for appellants.
.AeGuffey was with him on the brief.

Xfr. Alexander T

No appearance for appellees.
MR, CmHEF JusTicE FuLLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
No question arises in respect to the sale and transfer by
Williams to Butts, and by Butts to Seth W. Fowle, and the
acquisition by complainants of all the right, title and interest
of the latter, nor as to the sale by Williams to Sanford and
Park, and the passage of the title, interest, and rights of Sanford and Park to Park, and through him to his codefendants;
and the agreement between Park and Fowle & Son, as to the
territory west of the Rocky Mountains, is produced, and sustains the averments of the bill in that regard.
By the contract between Williams and Sanford and Park,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Williams, in consid6ration of the pbyment of $2500 by Sanford
and Park, and the covenants entered into on their part, sold
and transferred to Sanford and Park, 'a true copy of the
recipe used in preparing said Balsam of Wild Cherry, together
with the sole right to manufacture and sell said medicine in
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri, Michigan, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, and all the
territory lying west of those States, together with certain
counties in the State of Virginia and certain counties in the
State of Pennsylvania, and Sanford and Park covenanted and
agreed to pay $2500 and $4'764: for medicine consigned to
them for sale, and also "that they will not sell or cause to be
sold, or establish agencies for the sale of said balsam in any
part of the United States except in the States and Territories
herein granted to them, and also that they, the said Sanford
and Park, will not sell, or cause any of said medicine to be
sold, at less price than seven dollars for each and every dozen,
except to such persons as shall become their agents for a whole
State or Territory, and in all cases where such agencies are
granted they also promise and agree to take from such agents
an agreement, with a sufficient guaranty or penalty, that no
sales of said medicine shall be made at a less price than that
above named;" and Williams covenanted and agreed that he
would not "manufacture, sell, or cause to be sold, any of said
medicines within the territory herein granted to the said Sanford and Park, or any medicines under a different name, prepared from the same recipe used in preparing said balsam, or in
any other form purporting to be an improvement on the said
medicine," it being provided "that the said Sanford and Park
shall not make known to any person the ingredients employed
or manner of preparing said medicines." By a similar agreement Williams sold and transferred to Butts the recipe and the
sole right to manufactureand sell said medicine in the six New
England States; also in the States of iNew York, New Jersey,
Delaware, Maryland, North and South Carolina, District of
Columbia, and British America, and certain counties in the
States of Pennsylvania and Virginia, for four thousand
dollars, and eight thousand six hundred and sixty-one dollars

FOWLE v. PARK.
. Opinion of the Court.

for medicine consigned to him, the parties covenanting as in
the agreement with Sanford and Park.
The contract between Butts and Fowle was similar in terms,
the money consideration being twenty-nine thousand five hundred dollars, and some accounts, a stock of drugs, and some
apparatus and stereotype plates being included in the purchase.
By the agreement between John D. Park and Seth A.
Fowle and Lucy Ann S. Fowle, Park, in consideration of
$5000, sold, assigned, transferred and conveyed to said Seth
A. and Lucy Ann S. Fowle all his "right, title, interest and
claim in and to the property or proprietary right or franchise
of the medicine or medicinal preparation called and known as
'Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry,' for and so far as regards
all the territory or part of North America lying westerly of
the ridge of the Rocky Mountains, embracing the whole of
the following States and Territories of the United States, viz.,
the States of California, Oregon and Nevada, and the Territories of Washington, Idaho, Utah, Arizona and Alaska, and so
much and such parts of the Territories of Montana, Wyoming,
Colorado and New Mexico as are westerly of the ridge of said
Rocky Mountains meaning and intending all territory lying
westerly of said Rocky Mountains (including the westerly slope
thereof) and between said mountains and the Pacific Ocean,
and also all my right, claim and interest in and to the good
will of the business of making, putting up and selling said
Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry within said limits, and in and
to the trade-marks, so far as used within said limits, on the
labels, bottles, wrappers, or packages containing said medicine,
or otherwise used in carrying on said business within the limits
oV territory aforesaid;" also in all of British Columbia and
Mexico; "intending hereby to transfer and relinquish to said
Fowles the whole market for the said medicine of all said
territory westerly of the Rocky Mountains, and also, (so
far as I have the power so to do,) of all said British Columbia and Mexico, so that they and their legal representatives and assigns may have and enjoy the sole and exclusive
right of selling said medicines within said limits, so far as I
can assure such right to them, and free from any competition

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or interference by me or any one claiming under me or acting
by or with my authority, permission, or aid, either directly or
indirectly;" and he further covenanted that he "will not, and
my heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns shall not,
either within said territory westerly of the ridge of the Rocky
Mountains, or within said British Columbia or Mexico, hereafter make, put up, sell, or offer or expose for sale, any of said
Wistar's Balsam of Wild Cherry, or any other medicine whatever bearing the name of ' Wild Cherry,' in whole or in part,
nor the said medicine under a different name prepared substantially from the same recipe or formula, or use the same, or
trade-marks, or any of them, or be concerned, directly or indirectly, in the business of selling or in promoting the sale of
said medicine within said limits in competition with said
Fowles, their representatives and assigns, or in any way or by
any means whatsoever do or knowingly aid or abet any other
person to do anything to prejudice or interfere with the business of selling said medicine within the limits aforesaid solely
by said Fowles, their representatives and assigns;" and then
follows a covenant of further assurance.
If the defendants violated the provisions of these contracts
by selling this article within the territory which it was covenanted complainants should occupy exclusively, or by selling to
others for sale there, or by promoting such sales, we are aware
of no reason for the refusal of relief unless it may be, as is
contended, that the contracts were not enforceable on the
ground of public policy.
We have not been favored with any opinion of the learned
judge who decided the case in the Circuit Court, nor with any
brief in appellees' behalf; and while we may naturally assume
that the finding was based upon the supposed want of proof
of violation of the contracts or their supposed invalidity, or
both, we are left to conjecture as to the precise views which
were entertained.
As we remarked in Gibbs v. Consolidated Gas Company,
130 U. S. 396, 409: "The decision in .fitchel v. Reynolds, 1
P. Wins. 181; . C. Smith's Leading Cases, Vol. 1, Pt. II.,
508, is the foundation of the rule in relation to the invalidity

FOWLE v. PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

of contracts in restraint of trade; but as it was made under a
condition of things and a state of society different from those
which now prevail, the rule laid down is not regarded as
inflexible, and has been considerably modified. Public welfare
is first considered, and if it be not involved, and the restraint
upon one party is not greater than protection to the other,
requires, the contract may be sustained. The question is
whether, under the particular circumstances of the case, and
the nature of the particular contract involved in it, the contract is, or is not, unreasonable. Rousillon v. Rousillom, 14
Oh. D. 351; Leather Cloth Co. v. _orsant, L. R. 9 Eq. 345;
Oregon Stean JYhvigatiom Co. v. Winsor, 20 Wall. 64, 68."
Relating as these contracts did to a compound involving a
secret in its preparation; based as they were upon a valuable
consideration, and limited as to the space within which, though
unlimited as to the time for which, the restraint was to operate,
we are unable to perceive how they could be regarded as so unreasonable as to justify the court in declining to enforce them.
The vendors were entitled to sell to the best advantage, and
in so doing to exercise the right to preclude themselves from
entering into competition with those who purchased, and to
prevent competition between purchasers; and the purchasers
were entitled to such protection as was reasonably necessary
for their benefit. Williams had and transferred property in
the secret process of manufacturing the article he had discovered, and he and his grantees could claim relief as against
breaches of trust in respect to it. The policy of the law is to
encourage useful discoveries by securing their fruits to those
who make them. If the public found the balsam efficacious,
they were interested in not being deprived of its use, but by
whom it was sold was unimportant.
The decree below was probably not rendered, and cannot be
sustained, upon the theory that these contracts were in themselves invalid.
It. remains to be considered whether there is evidence tending to show that the defendants sold the balsam within the
prohibited territory, or to those by whom to their knowledge
it was to be there sold, or in any way promoted such sale.
voL. Ox=xxi-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

We are of opinion that the record discloses violations of the
contracts in these particulars, and that the cause should have
gone to a master to state an account. One of the defendants
was called by complainants as a witness, and though apparently an unwilling one, he admits four shipments of balsam to
Atlanta, Ga., in 1879, 1880, 1883 and 1884; a shipment, in 1879,
to New York; a shipment, in April, 1880, to Philadelphia; and
identifies an entry on defendants' sales-book of a shipment to
Coffin, Reddington & Co., San Francisco, Cal., in 1878, charged
to Smith & Co., of Dayton, Ohio; although Georgia, New York,
Philadelphia and California were all within complainants' territory. Evidence was also adduced of shipments by defendants to Henry, Curran & Co. at New York, in 1874, 1875 and
1876, not for sale in defendants' territory, but for the general
purposes of the Eastern trade, and sold within the territory
embraced in the original transfer to Butts, and of sales
directly by Park & Sons to Crittenden and McKesson &
:Robbins, of New York, in 1878, 1880, 1881 and 1882. Coffin,
of Coffin, Reddington & Co. of New York and San Francisco,
testifies that for seven years he had purchased Park's Wistar's
Balsam from S. iN. Smith & Co., Dayton, Ohio, commencing
in 1877, and the last purchase being in 1883, and that purchases were made under orders to ship direct to California,
and that Smith & Co. furnished it for seven dollars a dozen,
less freight. Smith testifies to the shipment of nine gross of
this balsam to California, to the San Francisco branch of Coffin, Reddington & Co., during the years 1879 to 1883, inclusive, and one gross to John lelm & Co., of California; that
he did not usually keep the article in stock, but ordered it
from Park & Sons, and sometimes had the goods shipped
directly by them; that while they rendered bills charging $84:
and $87 per gross in some instances, or seven dollars or more
per dozen, he, in fact, paid them only what he received, seven
dollars per dozen less the freight, which, of course, indicates
that defendants knew where the balsam was going, since they
not only shipped some direct, but were paid by Smith on the
basis of deducting freight equivalent to the charges to California, and, as well put by appellants' counsel, "if the sales

FOWLE v. PARK.
Opinion of the Court.

were to Smith & Co., in fact, then they were for much less
than seven dollars a dozen, and in violation of contract."
Smith also testifies to two instances- one in 1877 and one
in 1878 -of the shipment of ten gross and five gross to Coffin, Reddington & Co., California, for so much less than seven
dollars per dozen as the amount of the freight to California,
which balsam Smith & Co. procured from the defendants, paying them the net sum received. The witness Park did not
deny that balsam had been shipped directly to California,
upon the order of Smith & Co.; he testified that they kept
the balsam in stock at one time with Smith & Co., to be sold
on their account; he would not say that the entries on the
sales-books in the name of Smith & do. necessarily showed to
whom the article was shipped, and said that he did not know
whether, when charged to Smith & Co., the article was shipped
to them or to other parties; he identified the entry of one
shipment to Coffin, Reddington & Co.; he knew the average
amount of freight per gross on balsam shipped to California,
which, deducted from $84, the contract sales price per gross,
left substantially the aihount in all cases received by Smith &
Co. on the California shipments, and by them paid to Park &
Sons; and he admitted several charges on Park & Sons' books
against Smith & Co., for merchandise, corresponding in dates
and amounts with shipments to California. The inference is
a reasonable one, that the defendants knew that the balsam
claimed to have been sold to Smith & Co., and which was
shipped to California, was going there, and in addition they
had been informed, in 1878, by the complainants, of the report
that Wistar's Balsam of defendants' make had made its appearance in the San Francisco market, and complainants had subsequently objected to sales within their territory, to which
defendants paid no attention. We do not think the latter
are in any position to say that they did not know what was
going on. Neither of them was called for the defence nor
any testimony taken on their behalf. We are satisfied com•plainants sufficiently made out their case to justify according
to them the relief prayed.
Te decree is reversed, and the cause remandedfor further
proceedings in conformity with this qinion.

