OCTOBER TERM,. 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

KENNON v. GILMER.
GIL:MER v. KEINON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Nos. 178, 203.

Argued January 30, 31,1889.--Decided May 13, ISS9.

The denial of a change of venue, moved for on the affidavit of the party's
agent to the state of public opinion in the county in which the action is
brought, is not reviewable by this court on error to the Supreme Court
of a Territory, even if a subject of appeal to that court from the trial
court under the territorial statutes.
In an action against the proprietors of a stage coach, for an injury caused
to a passenger by the misbehavior of one of the horses, evidence of subsequent similar misbehavior of the horse is admissible, in connection
with evidence of his misbehavior at and before the time of the accident,
as tending to prove a vicious disposition and fixed habit.
In assessing damages for a personal injury caused by negligence, the jury
may rightly be instructed to take into consideration the plaintiff's bodily
and mental pain and suffering, taken together, and necessarily resulting
from the original injury.
In an action at law for a personal injury, in which damages have been
assessed by a jury at an entire sum, the court is not authorized, upon a
motion for a new trial for excessive damages and for insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict, to enter an absolute judgment, according
to its own estimate of the damages which the plaintiff ought to have recovered, for a less sum than assessed by the jury; and either party is
entitled to a reversal of such a judgment by writ of error.

Tim case is stated in the opinion.
2ft. far nt'F. _ffonis for Kennon.
.Afi. J ifubley Ashton (with whom was Mr. Nathaniel TFilson on the brief) for Gilmer.
MR.

JuST

E

GRAsY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought April 4, 1882, in a district court of
the county of Deer Lodge and Territory of Montana, against
Gilmer and others, common carriers of passengers for hire by
stage coaches between the towns of Deer Lodge and Helena,
I

IKENNON v. GILTNER.
Opinion of the Court.

by Kennon, a passenger in one of those coaches, to recover
damages for personal injuries sustained by him on June 30,
1879.
The complaint alleged that the defendants were guilty of
negligence in failing to provide a safe and competent driver
and safe and well broken horses, by reason of which, and of
the negligence and mismanagement of their servants, the
horses became unmanageable, broke the pole of the coach
and took fright, so that it was apparently unsafe for the plaintiff to remain in the coach, and he jumped to the ground and
in so doing broke his leg, and it became necessary to amputate
it, whereby he sustained damages in the sum of $25,000, and
was obliged to pay $750 for necessary medical and surgical
expenses. The answer denied these allegations.
Before a jury had been called, the defendants moved for a
change of venue, on the ground that an impartial trial could
not. be had in the county of Deer Lodge; and in support of the
motion filed an affidavit of one Riddle, deposing "that he is
agent of defendants in the above entitled cause; that he
resides in the county of Deer Lodge, where said action is.
depending ; that he is acquainted with and knows tlfe general
sentiments and opinions of the public in reference to said
action and the parties thereto, and from his knowledge of such
public opinion has reason to believe and does believe that the
defendants cannot have a fair and impartial trial of said cause
in the county of Deer Lodge; that the general sentiment of
the public in said county is prejudicial to the defendants, as
far as concerns said action; that one trial has already been
had of said cause in this county, in which heavy damages were
awarded to the plaintiff by the jury which tried said cause;
that said verdict and the judgment rendered thereon have
been generally canvassed and commented upon by the public
in a manner favorable to the plaintiff and unfavorable to the
defendants, and thereby has [been] produced a general prejudice
against the defendants which cannot fail to have an influence
on the second trial of said cause."
The court withheld its decision on the motion until a jury
had been called and examined on their voir dire, and then
denied it, and the defendants excepted to the denial.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

At the trial, the defendant took exceptions to evidence
introduced by the plaintiff, and to instructions given to the
jury at his request. The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff, assessing his damages at "the sum of $20,000 for general
damages, and also the sum of $750 for medical expenses and
surgical operations."
The defendants moved for a new trial, for excessive damages appearing to have been given under the influence of
passion or prejudice, for insufficiency of the evidence to justify
the verdict, and for errors of law in the rulings excepted to.
The motion was denied, and judgment entered on the verdict;
and the defendants appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory, which ordered the judgment to be reduced to the sum
of $10,750, and affirmed it for this amount. Its opinion is
reported in 5 Montana, 257.
Writs of error were sued out by both parties, by the defendants on January 1, 1885, and by the plaintiff on May 1, 1885,
both returnable at October term, 1885; and the plaintiff's writ
of error was docketed first in this court.
The questions arising out of the exceptions taken by the
defendants to the rulings of the inferior court present no
difficulty.
By the statutes of the Territory, "the court may, on good
cause shown, change the place of trial, when there is reason to
believe that an impartial trial cannot be had therein;" and
an appeal lies to the Supreme Court of the Territory from an
order granting or refusing a neW trial, or from an order granting or refusing to grant a change of venue. Montana Code
of Civil Procedure of 1879, §§ 62, 408; Act of Amendment
of February 23, 1881, § 7.
But the statutes of the Territory cannot enlarge the appellate
jurisdiction of this court. The granting or denial of a change
of venue, like the granting or refusal of a new trial, is a matter within the discretion of the court, not ordinarily reviewable by this court on writ of error. XicFaul v. Ramsey, 20
How. 523 ; -er v. Olampitt, 95 U. S. 188 ; Railway Co. v.
fleck, 102 U. S.120. And the refusal to grant a change of
venue on the mere affidavit of the defendants' agent to the

KENNON v. GILMER.
Opinion of the Court.

state of public opinion in the county clearly involves matter of
fact and discretion, and is not a ruling upon a mere question
of law.
The only objection to the admission of evidence, relied on
in argument, is that the plaintiff, who introduced evidence
tending to support the allegations of his complaint, as well as
evidence that one of the leading horses in the defendants'
coach had been fractious and vicious on former occasions, was
permitted to introduce evidence that in March, 1881, twenty
months after the accident, this horse, when being driven in a
buggy, kicked and broke the pole and tried to run away.
But evidence of subsequent misbehavior of the horse might
properly be admitted, in connection with evidence of his misbehavior at and before the time of the accident, as tending
to prove a vicious disposition and fixed habit, and to support
the plaintiff's allegation that the horse was not safe and well
broken. The length of time afterwards to which such evidence may extend is largely within the discretion of the judge
presiding at the trial.
As observed by Chief Justice Bigelow, delivering the judgment of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, overruling exceptions to the admission of evidence of the conduct
of a horse as long after the accident as in the case at bar:
"The objection to the evidence relating to the habits of the
horse subsequent to the time of the accident goes to its weight
rather than its competency. The habit of an animal is in its
nature a continuous fact, to be shown by proof of successive acts
of a similar-kind. Evidence having been first offered to show
that the horse had been restive and unmanageable previous
to the occasion in question, testimony that he subsequently
manifested a similar disposition was competent to prove that
his previous conduct was not accidental or unusual, but frequent, and the result of a fixed habit at the time of the accident." Todd v. Rowley, 8 Allen, 51, 58. To the same effect
Fare Afaggi v. Cutts, 123 Mass. 535, and Charnberlainv. Enfled,
43 N. H. 356.
The defendants' exceptions to the instructions on the question of their liability to the plaintiff are based upon some

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

expressions in the fifth and sixth instructions given at the
plaintiff's request, considered separately, and disregarding subsequent and perfectly definite instructions, which put it beyond
doubt that the jury could not have been misled. The qualification supposed to be omitted in the sixth instruction is distinctly stated in the seventh, and the supposed implication in
the fifth instruction is absolutely refuted by the twelfth instruction given at the request of the defendants themselves.
It would therefore be a waste of time and space to state or to
comment upon those instructions at greater length.
The remaining exception taken at the trial is to the instruction on the measure of damages, by which the jury were
directed that they should assess the general damages claimed
"in such sum as will compensate the plaintiff for the injury
received, and in so doing may take into consideration his
bodily and mental pain and suffering, both taken together, but
not his mental pain alone, the inconvenience to him of being
deprived of his leg, and loss of time and inconvenience in
attending to his business generally, from the time of the injury
to the present time, such as the plaintiff may have proved, and
the jury are satisfied, to a reasonable certainty, inevitably and
necessarily resulted from the original injury."
The defendants object to this instruction, that the jury were
permitted to assess damages for mental suffering. But the
instruction given only authorized them, in assessing damages for
the injury caused by the defendants to the plaintiff, to take into
consideration "his bodily and mental pain and suffering, both
taken together," (" but not his mental pain alone,") and such as
"inevitably and necessarily resulted from the original injury."
The action is for an injury to the person of an intelligent
being; and when the injury, whether caused by wilfu:ess or
by negligence, produces mental as well as bodily angujsh and
suffering, independently of any extraneous consideration or'
cause, it is impossible to exclude the mental suffering in estimating the extent of the personal injury for which compensation is to be awarded. The instruction was in accord with the
opinions of this court in similar cases.
In Railroad Co. v. Barron, decided at December term,

KENNON v. GILMER.
Opinion of the Court.

1866, Mr. Justice Nelson, delivering judgment, in giving the
reasons why the damages in an action brought against a railroad corporation by a person injured by its negligence must
depend very much on the good sense and sound judgment of
the jury upon all the facts and circumstances of the particular
case, said: "There can be no fixed measure of compensation
for the pain and anguish of body and mind, nor for the loss of
time and care in business, or the permanent injury to health
and body." 5 Wall. 90, 105.
The case of folntyre v. Giblin, decided at October term,
1879, is directly in point. That was an action to recover damages for the careless and negligent shooting and wounding of
Giblin by McIntyre, and the jury were instructed that in
computing damages they might take into consideration "a fair
compensation for the physical and mental suffering caused
by the injury." It was argued in behalf of McIntyre that the
action being for a negligent injury, and not for a wilful and
malicious one, the instruction was erroneous, because the
words "and mental" were included. But the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Utah held otherwise. 2 Utah, 384. And
this court affirmed its judgment, Chief Justice Waite saying:
"We think, with the court below, that the effect of this instruction was no more than to allow the jury to give compensation for the personal suffering of the plaintiff caused by the
injury, and that in this there was no error." Post, Appendix,
clxiv; IS. C. 25 L. 0. P. Co. ed. 572.
The most serious question arises upon the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Montana, reducing the judgment of the
inferior court from $20,750 to $10,750, and affirming it for this
amount. Both parties contend that this judgment was erroneous and should be reversed, but they are not agreed as to
the result of a reversal. The plaintiff contends that it must
be to affirm the judgment of the inferior court, in accordance
with the verdict, for the larger sum, while the defendants contend that a new trial of the whole case must be ordered.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory, reducing the amount of the verdict and the judgment of the
inferior court thereon, without submitting the case to another

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

jury, or putting the plaintiff to the election of remitting part
of the verdict before rendering judgment for the rest, was
irregular, and, so far as we are informed, unprecedented; and
the grounds assigned for that judgment in the opinion sent
up with the record, as required by the rules of this couPt, are
far from satisfactory.
Those grounds were, in substance, that the court, applying
the rule that the verdict of a jury will not be disturbed if
there is evidence to support it, unless it seems to have been
the result of passion or prejudice, was satisfied that the clear
weight of the testimony strongly favored the defendants' position that there was no negligence on their part and the plaintiff's injury was the result of unavoidable accident, and that
"this large verdict comes from something outside of the testimony;" as well as that "if the case had been between two
strangers unknown to the jury and tried on this evidence, if
there had been a verdict at all for the plaintiff, it would have
been for a very much less sum," and "the evidence does not support this verdict;" -the legitimate inference from all which
would seein to be that the whole verdict was tainted by passion or prejudice -yet the court, because it could not "say
that there is no evidence to support a verdict for such an
amount as the plaintiff ought to recover," forthwith proceeded
to adjudge that the verdict and the judgment thereon be
reduced to what in its opinion was such an amount, without
apparently considering the question of its power to do this.
5 Montana, 273, 274.
The Seventh Article of Amendment of the Constitution declares that, "in suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury
shall be preserved; and no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of the United States than
according to the rules of the common law." This article of
the Constitution is in full force in Montana, as in all other
organized territories of the United States. Act of May 26,
1864, c. 95, § 13, 13 Stat. 91; Rev. Stat. § 1891; Webster v.
Reid, 11 How. 437. In accordance therewith, the Code of
Civil Procedure of Montana provides that "an issue of fact

KE-O'N

v. GILMER.

Opinion of the Court.

must be tried by a jury, unless a jury trial is waived, or a refoerence is ordered by consent of the parties." § 241.
That code authorizes the court in which a trial is had, or
the Supreme Court of the Territory on appeal, to set aside a
verdict and grant a new trial "for excessive damages appearing to have been given under the influence of passion or prejudice," or "for insufficiency of the evidence to justify the ver,dict." §§ 285, 408; Act of Amendment of 1881, § 'T. And by
.428 of that code, "upon an .appeal from a judgment or
order, the appellate court may reverse, affirm or modify the
-judgment or order appealed from, in the respect mentioned in
the notice of appeal, and as to any or all of the parties;"
"and may, if necessary or proper, order a new trial." But
this section does not authorize the appellate court to render a
judgment which the lower court could not have rendered.
Under these statutes, as at common law, the court, upon the
hearing of a motion for a new trial, may, in theexercise of its
judicial discretion, either absolutely deny themotion, or grant
-n-eiitial gneierally, or it may order that a new trial be had
unless the plaintiff elects to remit a certain part of the verdict, and that, if-hedsso remit,_judgment be entered for the
opkins v. O'r, 124 U. S. 510; Arkansas Cattle Co. v.
rest.
La'nn, 130 U. S. 69. And if the pleadings and the verdict,
afforded the means of distinguishing part of the plaintiff's
claim from the rest, this court might affirm the judgment
upon the llaintiff's now remitting that part. Bank of .entucky v. Ashley, 2 Pet. 32.
But this court has no authority to pass upon any question
of fact involved in the consideration of the motion for a new
trial. And, in a case in which damages for a tort have been
asessed by a jury at an entire sum, no court of law, upon a
motion for a new trial for excessive damages and for insufficiency of the -evidence to support the verdict, is authorized,
according to its own estimate of the amount of damages
which the plaintiff ought to h"t*.e recovered, to enter an absolute judgment for any other.pum than that assessed b9ythe
Jury.
By the action of the courti'n entering an absolute judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

for the lesser sum, instead of ordering that a judgment for
that sum should be entered if the plaintiff elected to remit
the rest of the damages, and that if he did not so remit there
should be a new trial of the whole case, each party was
prejudiced ; and either, therefore, is entitled to have the
judgment reversed by writ of error. The plaintiff was prejudiced, because he was deprived of the election to take a
new trial upon the whole case. The defendants were prejudiced, because if the 'judgment for the lesser sum had been
conditional upoir a remittitur by the plaintiff, the defendant ,
if the plaintiff had not remitted, would have had a new trial
generally; and if the plaintiff had filed a remittitur, and
thereby consented to the judgment, he could not have sued
out a writ of error, and the defendants would have been
protected from the possibility of being obliged in any event
to pay the larger sum. Whereas upon the absolute judgment
entered by the court, without any election or consent of the
plaintiff, the plaintiff had the right to sue out a writ of error;
and he availed himself of that right, and docketed his writ of
error in this court before the defendants docketed their writ of
error. The defendants were thus put in the position of being
obliged to contest the plaintiff's writ of error, in order to
defend themselves against being held liable for the larger sum,
as the plaintiff contended that they must be upon this record.
The erroneous judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Territory being reversed, the case will stand as if no such
judgment had been entered; and that court will be at liberty, in disposing of, the motion for a new trial according
to its view of the evidence, either to deny or to grant a
new trial generally, or to order judgment for a less sum than
the amount of the verdict, conditional upon a remittitur by
the plaintiff.
Judgment reversed, and case r'emanded to the Suporeme Court
of fontana for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion; each pvarty to pay one half the expense of
_printing the record and other costs in this court.

