HUNT v. BLACKBURN.
Statement of the Case.

to be borne in the first instance, by said Nichols, Shepard &
Co., as one half the cost of printing the record in said cases.
CHARLES

F.

BURToN.

Subscribed and sworn to before me, this 21st day of January, 1889.
CnA. L S 13T.FIsK,
Nvotary Public.
Wayne County, Michigan.
-r.

M lrkes . Bwrton for the motion.

Xr. R. -A. Parker opposing.
PER cuni&: On consideration of the motion for a retaxation of costs in this cause, and of the argument of counsel
thereupon, had as well in support of as against the same:
It is now here ordered by the court that the amount advanced by the appellants in this cause towards printing the.
record be recoverable by them from the appellees herein.
[This order is entitled only in the cross-suit of _Nichols v.
Marsk.]

HUNT v. BLACKBURN.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE APPEALED FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT
OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 16. Submitted January 22, 1889.- Decided April 8,1889.

The counsel for appellees having undertaken to appear for the heirs and
representatives of the original appellee, deceased, and having filed in the
office of the clerk of this court a waiver of publication, and having
failed to appear, and the cause having been heard and having proceeded
to final hearing, (128 U. S. 464;) Held, that the decree be made absolute
against the heirs and representatives of the deceased appellee.

TiE previous proceedings in this case are reported in 127
U. S. 774; and 128 II. S. 464. On the 22d January, 1889, the
following motion was made in the cause:

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

The appellant, by his counsel, moves the court to enter the
decree in this cause, reversing the decree below; on the ground
that the waiver of publication is equivalent to the publication;
and that the undertaking of counsel to appear, is an appearance, or will justify the clerk in entering the appearance; and
in this case, an order will follow for publication, to show cause
why the appellant should not have the decree certified -or
otherwise why execution should not issue. It is submitted,
however, that if this latter is the proper course, the .ci.fa.
should issue from the court below after remand.
If this be held by the court inadmissible, he then moves in
the alternative, that an order be entered for publication, in
such form as the court may order, and submits the following
for the consideration of the court, as a proper order:
U. S. Supreme Court, Oct. Term, 1888.

1
Hunt
No. 16.
IV.
Blackburn, et al. I
This case having been heard on the undertaking of counsel
for appellees to appear for the heirs and representatives of the
original appellee, and upon a waiver of publication by the said
counsel, filed in this court; and the said counsel having failed
to appear, though requested by appellant's counsel. It is on
motion of appellant's counsel ordered that publication be
made in the Eastern District of Arkansas, weekly, in some
newspaper published in said district, for four successive weeks;
the first publication not to be later than the first day of February next, requiring Belle Buck, as administratrix of S. S.
Buck, appellee, and in her own right, Willie Buck and Eddie
Blackburn, children and heirs at law of Sallie S. Buck, appellee,
and all other heirs or representatives of said Sallie S. Buck,
to appear before this court, on or before the first Monday in
April, 1889, and show cause, if any they have, why a decree
shall not be entered in this cause, reversing the decree in the
court below, and remanding the said cause, with directions to
enter such decree as this court may order.

FREELAN)

v. WILLIAMS.
Syllabus.

Mlr. J. B. Heiskell, for the motion, cited Lorymer v.
Hollister,Strange, 693; 1 Tidd's Practice, 241, 1163; Green v.
Watkins, 6 Wheat. 260; Wicket v. Cremer, 1 Ld. Raym. 439;
State v. rcLean, 8 iHeiskell, 289.
PER oUBiAM: It is ordered that
The decree of this court of Vovember 26,1888, be made absolute against the heirs and representatives of Sallie S.
Blaekburn, deceased.

MENKEN v. ATLANTA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
No. 674. Decided April 18, 1889.

The death of the accused in a criminal case brought here by writ of error
abates the suit.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
[r. Hoke Smith for plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. TV. Packardfor defendant in error.
PER cuRrAm: The death of Fritz Menken, the plaintiff in
error in the cause having been suggested by MA~r. Pope Barrow,
in behalf of -Mr.H1oke Smith of counsel for the said plaintiff
in error, and it appearing to the court that this is a criminal
case, it is considered by the court that this cause has abated.
Therefore, it is ordered and adjudged by the court that the
writ of error in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
Dismissed.
FREELAND v. WILLIAMS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 267. Argued April 17, 18, 1889. -Decided

May 13,1889.

The provision in the constitution of West Virginia of 1872 that the property
of a citizen of the State should not" be seized or sold under final process

