CORNELY v. 21ARCKWALD.
Statement of the Case.

As the order taking the bill as confessed by Tait, and directing that the cause be proceeded in thenceforth ex parte as
to him, was entered before the decree was made sustaining
the demurrer of Mvfasterson and dismissing the bill as against
him, that decree is final as to him, and one from which he
could appeal. There was no decree from which Tait could
appeal, and when the case returns to the Circuit Court a final
disposition of it can be made as against Tait. He was properly made a defendant with iMasterson, although no relief was
prayed against him in respect of the matters in which he is
alleged to have been concerned with Masterson.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is remanded to that court, with a direction to overrule the
second demurrer of .fasterson, and to take suchfurther
proceedings as shall not be inconsistent with this opinion.

CONIELY v. IMARCKWALD.
AIPEAL FRO21

THE CIRCUIT

COUR T OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YOIK.
No. 293. Argued April 26, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.

Tha decision in Rude v. Westcott, 130 U. S. 152, affirmed that the payment
of a sum in settlement of a claim for an alleged infringement of a patent
cannot be taken as a standard to measure the value of the improvements
patented, in determining the damages sustained by the owner of the
patent in other cases of infringement.
Where a plaintiff seeks to recover damages because he has been compelled
to lower his prices to compete with an infringing defendant, he must
show that his reduction in prices was due solely to the acts of the defendant, or to what extent it was due to such acts.
Where he seeks to recover damages for the loss of the sale of infringing
machines which the defendant has sold, he must show what profit he
made on his own machines.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.ThXr. Benjamin F. Zee, for appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

William A. Coursen for appellee.
.M'.
Mr.. JuSTIcE BnAToInoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in equity brought by Emile Cornely against
Freeman D. Tvarckwald, for the alleged infringement of letters patent No. 83,910, granted to Cornely, as assignee of
Antoine Bonnaz, the inventor, for an "improvement in sewing-machine for embroidering." There was an interlocutory
decree for the plaintiff, establishing the validity of the patent
and its infringement, and ordering a reference to a master to
take an account of profits and damages.
The master reported that the defendant had made a profit
of $142.92, by the sale of 26 infringing machines; and that
he was not a wilful and deliberate infringer. As to damages,
he reported that the plaintiff had instituted ten suits against
other infringers on the patent, all of which, with one exception, were settled on the basis of $50 for each infringing machine; that the plaintiff claimed that that afforded a proper
measure of damages, on the basis of an established licenge fee;
that there was a deviation in one instance because, as was
stated by a witness, the case presented "circumstances of exceptional hardship," but what the circumstances were did not
appear; that it did not appear that licenses were issued to
any one other than in the settlement of a suit, or that the
plaintiff had adopted the sum of $50 as a sum on the payment
of which he was prepared to grant a license to any and all
who wished to use the invention; and that the facts did not
warrant the measurement of the damages by a fixed and
established license fee.
The master also reported that the, plaintiff claimed that he
had been forced to lower his prices to compete with the defendant; that the evidence did not show that any reduction in
prices by the plaintiff was solely due to the acts of the defendant, or to what extent it was due to such acts; that as to damage to the plaintiff from the loss of the sale of machines
which the defendant had sold, it did not appear what profits
the plaintiff made on his machines, or what it cost to make

CORNELY v. AIARCKWALD.
Opinion of the Court.

them; and that, therefore, such damage could not be computed
and could not be reported as exceeding the nominal sum of six
cents.
The plaintiff excepted to the report, and, on a hearing, the
court made a decree, (23 Blatchford, 163,) overruling the exceptions, and confirming the report, and awarding to the plaintiff
the $142.92, with interest and costs, except the costs on the accounting subsequent to the master's draft report and the costs
on the exceptions, which two items of costs it awarded to the
defendant. The plaintiff has appealed from so much of the
decree as*awards to him no damages beyond the six cents.
The Circuit Court, in its opinion, held, that evidence of payments made for infringements was incompetent to establish a
,price as for a fixed royalty; that, as to loss by the plaintiff
from the diversion of sales, he had failed to give any evidence
showing the cost of his machines, or what his profits would
have been; that, as there was no basis for a computation of
the loss of profits, the determination of the master was correct; and that his conclusion was proper as to the alleged loss
of the plaintiff by reason of the enforced reduction of his
prices.
We concur in these views. As to the question of an established license fee, the case is governed by the recent decision
of this court in Rude v. TFestcott, 130 U. S. 152, where it was
held that the payment of a sum in settlement of a claim for
an alleged infringement of a patent "cannot be taken as a
standard to measure the value of the improvements patented,
in determining the damages sustained by .the owner of the
patent in other cases of infringement."
.Decree alrmed.
VOL. CXxi-11

