OCTOBER TER-Al, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

BACON v. NOIRTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 173. Argued and submitted January 23, 1889.-Decided May 13, 1889.
If a mortgage of real estate in Michigan containing a power of sale is duly
recorded, as provided by law, it is not necessary that the bond secured
by it and that an agreement referred to in it and adopted and made a
part of it should also be recorded, in order that a foreclosure may be
had by advertisement and sale in the manner provided by the statutes of
the State.
Where a mortgage debt is payable in instalments, a provision in the mortgage that if at the expiration of the time limited for the payment of all
there shall remain due on the mortgage a sum not greater than a sum
named, which is less than the amount of the whole mortgage debt, the
mortgagor may have the privilege of paying the amount due by giving
his note therefor secured by mortgage on other real estate, does not
suspend the power of foreclosure and sale for non-payment of instalments as they become due.
This court concurs with the Supreme Court of the State of 'Michigan in
holding that the misspelling of the name of the mortgagee in an advertisement for the foreclosure of the mortgage by public sale under a
power of sale in the mortgage in the manner required by the statutes
of the State, and other errors in that advertisement which worked no
prejudice to the mortgagor - as a reference in the advertisement to the
record pointed out to all persons interested the means of obtaining true
information and of correcting all mistakes -were not defects sufficient
to defeat a title acquired at that sale.
EJECTMENT. Plea, the general issue. Judgment for the
plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is
stated in the opinion.

_&. Edward Bacon, for plaintiffs in error, submitted on his
brief.
Mr. Jon E. fore for defendant in error.
MR. JjSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

BACON v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

This is a suit in ejectment, brought in the court below by
the defendant in error, a Wisconsin corporation authorized by
the laws of that State to purchase and hold real estate, against
the plaintiffs in error, citizens of Michigan, to recover possession of certain real estate in the city of Niles, in the last
named State, together with damages for its retention.
The defendants pleaded the general issue. The case was
tried by the court without the intervention of the jury, which,
by the written request of counsel for defendants, made a special finding of facts in accordance with §§ 649, 700, of the'
Revised Statutes of the United States, and, upon such findings, rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiff. This writ
of error is brought to review that judgment.
The findings of the court are substantially as follows. At
the commencement of this suit, the premises in controversy
were valued at from $12,000 to $25,000, and were in the
possession of the defendants, Lydia A. Bacon claiming title
in fee-simple, and the other defendants claiming under her
as tenants or otherwise. Solyman Waterman is the common
source of title to both the plaintiff and the defendant, Lydia
A. Bacon. On the 8th of May, 1849, Waterman, then owning the fee to this property and the right of possession, gave a
purchase-money mortgage to one Anna H. Dickson, to secure
the payment of $1400, payable in five equal annual instalments
on the 29th of November, with interest quarterly, each year.
He failed to make the.payments specified, the mortgage was
foreclosed, and, upon such foreclosure, the premises were bid
off by the mortgagee for $684.80. The time for redemption
having expired without any one redeeming, the sheriff of the
county made and executed a deed to her for the property,
which was duly recorded, and she entered into actual possession thereof as such purchaser, claiming title April 1, 1855.
Anna H. Dickson afterwards conveyed the premises to one
Crofoot, and he, on the 20th of September, 1867, conveyed
them to Edgar Reading, who entered and continued in the
actual possession thereof until 1876.
On the 19th of June, 1874, Reading executed a mortgage
of this property to the plaintiff to secure the payment of

OCTOBER TER]I, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

$

, which was afterwards duly' foreclosed for failure to
comply with its terms, and the property was bid in by the
plaintiff. The sale was duly confirmed and the master made
and executed a deed therefor to the plaintiff on the 28th of
October, 1879.
There is no controversy concerning the proceedings in equity
to foreclose the Reading mortgage, nor as to the sale and conveyance of the property under the decree in that case. The
contention relates to the prior foreclosure under the Waterman mortgage.
Waterman's mortgage to Anna H. Dickson, the foreclosure
proceedings as to which are claimed by defendants to have
been illegal and invalid, contained the usual power of sale
upon default of any part of the sum thereby secured to be
paid; and, at the time of the foreclosure thereof, there was
due and unpaid thereon $664.50, and no proceeding at law
had been commenced to recover any part of the debt.
The statutes of Michigan provide that "every mortgage of
real estate containing therein a power of sale, upon default
being made in any condition of such mortgage, may be foreclosed by advertisement in the cases and in the manner hereinafter specified." It then specifies, among other things, that
the mortgage must have been recorded, and that a notice that
the same will be foreclosed by a sale of the mortgaged premises shall be given by publishing it for twelve successive weeks,
at least once in each week, in a newspaper printed in the county
where the premises are situated, which notice shall specify: (1)
The names of the mortgagor and mortgagee; (2) the date of
the mortgage and when recorded; (3) the amount claimed to
be due thereon at the date of the notice; and (4) a description
of the mortgaged premises. 2 Compiled Laws of 1871, § 6912,
6913, 6914 and 6915.
December 18, 1852, Anna Ht. Dickson caused notice that the
mortgage from Solyman Waterman to her would be foreclosed,
by a sale of the mortgaged premises, describing them, to be
published in the 2Tiles Republican, a newspaper published in
the county where the premises are situated. The day of sale
fixed in the notice was March 15, 1853. That notice, as printed,

BACON v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"is
dated "Dec. 28, 1852," ten days subsequent to the date of
the first publication thereof. It describes the mortgage as
having been given "by Solyman Waterman to Anna H. Dixon,
both of the village of Niles, in the State of Michigan," and
"dated the eighth day of May, 1848," whereas the real date
of the mortgage is 1849 and the real name of the mortgagee
is "Dickson." Again, as then published, the notice is signed
"Anna H. Dixon, mortgagee." With such mistakes, it was
published once in each week for three successive weeks; then
"Dixon" was changed to "Dickson" where the name is appended to it. With no other change it was published the
fourth, fifth and sixth weeks. The seventh publication was
made January 29, 1853, when the name appended to it read
"Dickens." It was then published weekly till February 12,
1853, on which day's publication the final letter "e" in the
word "mortgagee," appended to the signature, disappeared.
No other changes occurred. It was then published, for and
including the remainder of the period of twelve successive
weeks, once in each week in said newspaper.
The notice stated correctly the day when, and the book in
which, the mortgage was recorded, and also the sum due
thereon. The sale took place at the time specified in the notice. The mortgage had been duly recorded prior to the commencement of the foreclosure proceedings; but neither an
agreement referred to in the body of the mortgage as having

been made between the parties thereto on-the 29th of November, 1848, adopted and made a part of it, nor the bond mentioned therein had been recorded. * There is a stipulation in the
mortgage giving the mortgagor a right to pay any sum not
exceeding $1000 of the $1400 thereby secured, at any time
before the last instalment should become due, by a bond and
mortgage well securing such sum on other real estate in the
village of Niles.
August 25, 1868, Waterman commenced an ejectment suit
in the Circuit Court of Berrien County, Michigan, against
Reading to recover possession of the premises, to which suit
Reading appeared and pleaded the general issue. That suit
was once tried in 1880, resulting in a judgment in favor of

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

Waterman, but on error the Supreme Court of the State re!
versed that judgment, and remanded the cause for a new trial
(46 Michigan, 107); and the same was pending and undetermined in the Circuit Court of Berrien County at the time
this. suit was commenced. On the 16th of October, 1880,
Waterman, for the consideration of $300, conveyed to the
defendant, Lydia A. Bacon, all his right and title to the premises in dispute. Under that deed she claims title herein.

The assignments of error may all be reduced to one proposition, viz. : The findings of the court upon the facts in the
case do not support the judgment.
To support the judgment it is only necessary that the findings should show possession by the defendants, and title and
right of possession in the plaintiff. There is no question but
that they show that the defendants were in possession of the
premises at the time the suit was commenced. There is no
privity between the parties to the suit, and the only question
for consideration, therefore, relates to the title the plaintiff
has to the property. It is insisted by the plaintiffs in error
that that title is invalid, because the foreclosure proceedings
in the matter of the Waterman mortgage were not in accordance with law, and were fatally defective in at least three
particulars, viz.:
(1) The mortgage was not "duly recorded" so as to warrant
a foreclosure by advertisement under the power of sale, for the
reason that the agreement of November 29, 1848, which is referred to and in all its terms and conditions adopted and made
part of the mortgage, was iot recorded.
(2) The power of sale contained in the inortgage was not
operative between December 1, 1852, and April 1, 1853.
(3) The notice under which the sale was made was irregular,
defective and illegal.
The first of these propositions cannot be sustained. The
registry statutes of Michigan provide that "every conveyance
of real estate within this State hereafter made, which shall
not be recorded as provided in this chapter, shall be void as
against any subsequent purchaser in good faith, and for a valuable consideration, of the same real estate or any portion

BA CON v. NORTHWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

263

Opinion of the Court.

thereof, whose conveyance shall be first duly recorded." Howell's Stat. Mich. § 5683. Sections 5674 to 5677, inclusive, prescribe the manner in which such recording should be done.
The object of recording the mortgage is to give notice to
third persons. The rule is well-nigh universal in the United
States that, as between the parties thereto, the mortgage is
just as effectual for all purposes without recording as it is with
it. Jones on Mortgages, § 467. That is the rule in Michigan.
Sloan v. Holcomb, 29 Michigan, 153.
The condition in the mortgage which, it is claimed, prevented the power of sale from being operative at the time the
sale was made, when read in connection with the rest of the
instrument, means simply this: That if, at the expiration of
the time limited for the payment of the five instalments and
the interest thereon, the mortgagee had not foreclosed for the
accrued instalments, and there should still remain due on the
mortgage a sum not greater than $1000, the mortgagor might
have the privilege of paying the amount due by giving his
note therefor, secured by mortgage on other real estate in the
city of Niles. That privilege, however, did not prevent the
instalments from falling due at the times stipulated, nor prevent a sale of the property, under the other terms of the
mortgage, to satisfy them when they fell due. True, the
mortgagor might have stopped the sale by insisting on the
terms of the stipulation in the mortgage and complying with
the obligations resting on him. It was his privilege to have
done so. But that privilege could have been waived, and the
rights held under that stipulation lost by failure to assert them.
Even granting that the mortgagor had the right of insisting
on the terms of the stipulation at any time before the date
fixed for the fifth instalment to become due, notwithstanding
the sale before that time, it is not apparent how any one but
the purchaser at the sale could be heard to complain, since no
one else could be injured. For, under those circumstances,
the sale which purported to be absolute, with only the right
to redeem within the statutory period attaching thereto, would
have a still further condition limiting it, viz.: Be subject to
annulment and rescission at any time before the expiration of

OCTOBER TERM\i-,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

the period mentioned in the stipulation. But the proposition
which we have assumed does not arise here, for the mortgagor
in this case did nothing. He neither paid nor offered to pay
the instalments as they came due, in cash, nor did he pay or
offer to pay them by giving his note secured by mortgage on*
other real estate in the city of iNiles, at any time before the
sale of the property, or at any time thereafter. But, on the
contrary, he stood by and allowed the property to be sold, saw
the sheriff's deed executed for it, and never attempted to redeem. Afterwards, the purchaser at the sale, who, it happens,
was the original mortgagee, took possession of it. It is not
until 13 years after that event, when the property has increased in value many fold by improvements thereon and the
natural rise in the value of real estate attendant upon the
growth of the city, that he seeks to' regain possession of the
property by bringing a suit in ejectment.
It would be going too far to hold that, after all these ]aches,
he or his assigns can defeat the title acquired at the mortgage
sale and transmitted to the plaintiff, by setting up any supposed irregularity in the foreclosure proceedings. The time
to have asserted any rights that he possessed under and by
virtue of the stipulation incorporated in the mortgage was
limited by the terms of that instrument. And, by failing to
assert them -within that time, allowing the sale to go on, and
that time to elapse, he and his assigns should be estopped from
setting up any claim to the property in question.
With reference to the third reason assigned for the illegality
of the foreclosure proceedings, we do not think much need be
said. The Supreme Court of Michigan in Reading v. Waterman, 46 Michigan, 107, in passing upon this identical question
held,'that, so far as the notice of sale and the sale itself was
concerned, there were no defects sufficient to defeat the title
acquired at that sale. As the question involved the legality
of proceedings provided for by the statutes of the State, and
is thus a question of the construction of a state statute by the
highest court of the State, or, more properly, perhaps, a rule
of property in that State, we would follow the ruling of the
Michigan Supreme Court upon it even though we might have

BACON v. NORTHfWESTERN LIFE INS. CO.

265

Opinion of the Court.

some doubts upon it as an original proposition. Sumner v.
Hieks, 2 Black, 532; South Ottawa v. Perkin , 94 U. S. 260;
Brine.v. Insurance Co., 96 U. S. 627; Connecticut Insurance
Co. v. Cushman, 108 IT. S. 51; Equator Co. v. Hall, 106 U. S.
86. But in our opinion that question was properly decided
by that court.
Say the court in its opinion in the case referred to:
"The error in the indorsement cures itself by reference to the
deed itself, from which the time of redemption could 'be determined at once. Joknstone v. Scott, 11 Michigan, 232. Such
a mistake was there held unimportant. The blunders which
appear to have got into the notice of sale indicate very careless printing, and the changes in the different issues are not
easily explained; but how far they can be allowed to defeat
the sale depends on the effect they were likely to have on
persons interested. Authorities are cited and arguments made
on this matter which relate to proceedings which are had of a
hostile character and ex _pcrte, where it is commonly held that
such action, contrary to the usual course of law and against
persons who have not the common-law benefit of self-protection, should be held invalid unless conforming strictly to
statutory authority. We held in lee v. Clary, 38 Michigan,
223, that statutory foreclosures did not come in all respects
within the same mischief. The statutes regulating them are
made to enlarge, and not to cut down, the rights of mortgagors. Before such statutes were passed, sales made under a
power of sale contained in the mortgage were governed by
the same rules applicable to the sales under any other power,
and courts, in the absence of statutes, have never applied to
such powers any such technical rules as would impair the
security of purchasers. The power is part of the contract, and
should be construed on principles applicable to contracts and
not as a hostile process.
"The statutes were intended to prevent surprise or unfairness, and they should be enforced in everything substantial.
Courts cannot disregard any of their positive provisions. But,
on the other hand, those provisions cannot be enlarged or unreasonably construed, so as to render mortgage sales unsafe,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

or to make bidding hazardous. The law was designed to encourage and not to destroy recourse to these simple and cheap
remedies; and while no substantial right should be disregarded, substantial regularity is all that should be held imperative.
"the only things absolutely required in the notice of sale
are the names of the parties original or by assignment, the
date of the mortgage, and of its record, the amount claimed to
be due, and a description substantially agreeing with that in
the mortgage. In the present case the body of the notice
contained the name of the mortgagor, but the mortgagee was
named therein 'Dixon,' and not 'Dickson.'
These names,
however, are the same iba sound and legally identical unless
shown to refer to two different persons. Here the name of
Mrs. Dixon was referred to as mortgagee, and the mortgage
itself removed any such possibility of error. The name
signed to the notice was shifted by some accident to the types,
but as the notice showed the foreclosure was on behalf of the
original mortgagee, no harm could come from such a manifest
slip, which could mislead no one. The notice was first published December 18th, but was dated December 28th. This
was also of no account, as the error was palpable. The day
of sale was properly given and the publication full. The
notice gave the date of the mortgage once correctly and once
incorrectly. The date and place of record and the volume
and page were also given accurately. It was manifest on the
face of the notice that one of these dates was wrong, and the
means of correction were given by the record. It is indeed
suggested that the date given correctly as 1849 refers to the
bond, and not to the mortgage, which is mentioned as of 1848,
the days of the month corresponding. This does not strike
us forcibly, for it would not be likely that a mortgage given
one year would refer to a bond not made until a year after.
It is not to be supposed that purchasers under foreclosure sales
look at the dates of instruments without consulting the records
to ascertain the state of the title. The information given by
this notice directed every one immediately to the record, and
that necessarily explained the true date of the two dates set

