OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Syllabus.

ten different questions on which they were divided in opinion
on that hearing.
The remarks already made in the previous case, in regard
to splitting up the case into numerous points in order to get
this court to decide the whole matter in dispute in advance,
apply with increased force to this case.
Without further
comment on this, it is sufficient to say that in the present case,
as in that, one of the questions, relating to tht power of the
commissioner to administer the oath in this case, if he had attempted to do it, is we think pertinent and should be answered.
That question, the fifth one of the series certified to us, is as
follows: "Has a commissioner of the -United States Circuit
Court authority to administer oaths and make certificates for
the purposes for which the certificate set out in the indictment is alleged to have been made and used?
Of course, if he had no authority to administer the oath, it
was a wholly useless laper in which he made the certificate
that the oath had been taken, and whether there is any law
punishing him for that offence we are not informed, nor are
we required by any of these certificates of division in opinion
to inquire.
With regard to the question here asked us, it is sufficient to
say that, as in regard to the power of notaries public to
administer oaths, presented by the preceding case referred to,
we have been unable to find any authority for'a Circuit Court
commissioner to take such affidavits or to administer such
oaths.
l'he question is, t]terefore, answered in the negative.

PALAMR v. ARTHUR.
EOR TO TIM cIRcUIT COURT OF THE UMITED STATS FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 302.

Submitted April 26, 1889. -Decided

May 13, 1889.

It appearing that the alleged imperfections in the plaintiff's petition were
either obviated by subsequent pleadings or cured by the verdict, and

PALMER v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.
that this writ of error was sued out for purposes of delay, the court
affirms the judgment below with ten per cent damages, interest and costs.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Ab'. Walter Evans for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Tilliam Lindsay for defendant in error.

MIR.

C=IF

TUsTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action at law to recover upon an alleged breach
of contract to pay for certain staves made or procured to be
made by defendant in error for plaintiff in error, to be culled,
branded and received by the latter on the Cumberland River
and its tributaries, in the counties of Knox and Bell, in the
State of Kentucky.
The action was commenced in the Circuit Court of Whitley
County, and removed into the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kentucky.
The petition of Arthur, the plaintiff below, (omitting the
applicatipn for attachment,) was as follows:
"The plaintiff, E. F. Arthur, states that before the 30th of
May, 1884, he had a contract with the defendant, L. M.
Palmer, to make and have made for defendant an unlimited
number of staves on the Cumberland River and its tributaries, in the counties of Knox and Bell, State of Kentucky, for
-which defendant was to pay plaintiff $14 for each 1000 that
were 44 inches in length on the creeks and $15 per 1000 on
the river, $9 per 1000 for 34-inch staves on the river and $8
per 1000 on the creeks; that on the 30th of Miay, 1884, plaintiff had made under the contract 800,000 staves, at which
time defendant did not wish any more staves made, and plaintiff and defendant igreed that no more were to be made at
the time, and defendant was to pay plaintiff for the staves
made, and paid plaintiff at the time $4017.78 for 286,000 of
the staves, and was to pay plaintiff for the remainder, 514,000
staves, on the 1st of iNfovember, 1884. Plaintiff states that of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

514,000 staves not paid for and that had been made, 489,000
were 4.4-inch staves, for which defendant was to pay $14 per
thousand, and 25,000 3-inch staves, for which defendant was
to pay 88 per thousand; that there was due and owing the
plaintiff by the defendant on the 1st of November, 1884:
For 489,000 at $14 per thousand . .
$6846,
For 25,000 at $8 per thousand . . . .
200,
making due and owing the plaintiff by the defendant for said
staves $7046. Plaintiff states that Williamsburg, Ky., is the
place where defendant carries on the business of manufacturing staves, etc., and where his authorized agents were located;
that at the time the money was due on said staves he called
on the agent at his place of doing business for the money, (the
defendant being a non-resident of and absent from the State
of Kentucky,) and he failed and refused to paythe same or
any part thereof; same still due and owing the plaintiff by
the defendant, with interest from the 1st of November, 1884.
Plaintiff states that all of said staves have been culled and
branded by the defendant except about 50,000, which it was
the duty of the defendant to have culled and branded.
Wherefore plaintiff asks judgment for said sum of seven
thousand and forty-six dollars, his cost, interest, and all proper
relief."
To this petition, Palmer, the defendant below, filed an
answer, which conceded the existence of the contract, but
averred that it was not fully nor accurately set forth by plaintiff, and stated various alleged differences as to the size and
character of the staves, and the price to be paid therefor,
asserting also that "all upon inspection were to come up to
contract requirement," and that "the said contract related to
and embraced only such staves as might be made by the plaintiff himself, or which might be made by others and paid for by
plaintiff." It admitted that over 295,000 staves were received
and paid for, but denied that defendant had agreed to pay for
514,000 other staves, or that he had culled or branded any
other staves than those paid for May 30, 1884, since which
date he had "not accepted nor has he had an opportunity to
accept any more staves from the plaintiff, but he has also

PALMER v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.

accepted and received from persons making and owning the
staves within the territory covered by the agreement with
plaintiff about 13,000 staves, and has, with the plaintiff's consent, paid to the persons so making or owning such staves
(and who were in nowise parties to the contract between
plaintiff and defendant) the full price thereof," giving items
aggregating $153.69.
To this answer plaintiff replied, averring, among other things,
"that prior to the 30th of May, 1884, defendant's agents had
inspected, culled and branded the 800,000 staves mentioned in
the petition, except about 50,000."
The defendant rejoined to the reply, saying, that some time
before May 30, 1884, he informed plaintiff "the contract with
him would then be terminated, but that defendant would at
once proceed tQ take up and inspect and pay for enough of the
staves made to amount to the sum plaintiff then needed, viz.,
about $4000, and the remainder of the staves already made
could be inspected, and, if up to contract, taken later. The
defendant authorized such an arrangement, and it was agreed
upon between and by the parties." But defendant further
averred that plaintiff refused to permit the remaining staves to
be inspected. Whereupon plaintiff surrejoined, denying that
he refused to allow the staves to be inspected, and also that
"there was to be any other or further inspection of the staves
by defendant or his agents after they had been once culled and
branded."
The cause having come on for trial and a jury having been
empanelled to try the issue joined, the defendant, after the
evidence was all in, amended his answer by averring that the
staves in controversy were owned by parties other than plaintiff, which amended answer was "traversed of record by the
plaintiff." The jury found for the plaintiff the sum of $6094
with interest from November 1st, 1884, and judgment was
entered upon said verdict. No motion for a new trial or in
arrest was made, nor was any bill of exceptions taken. From
the judgment the pending writ of error was prosecuted to this
court and errors assigned as follows: That the Circuit Court
erred-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

"1st. In rendering judgment for the plaintiff for any sum
whatever.
"2d. In not rendering judgment on the trial for the said
Lowell M. Palmer instead of for said E. F. Arthur.
"3d. In not adjudging that the plaintiff in error on the
pleadings was entitled to a dismissal of the action and a judgment for his costs."
From the petition it appears that plaintiff sued upon a contract with defendant to make or cause to be made for him
within Knox and Bell counties an unlimited number of staves
of specified dimensions, to be paid for at stipulated prices; that
on the 30th of MNay, 1884, plaintiff had made under the contract
800,000 staves, at which time the parties agreed the manufacture should cease, and defendant paid at once for 286,000 of
the staves, and agreed to pay for the remainder, viz., 514,000,
on the 1st day of the following November, but did not do so,
and plaintiff claimed to recover as of iNovember 1, 1884,
$6846 for 489,000 staves at $14 per thousand, and $200 for
25,000 staves at $8 per thousand, and that of the 514,000 staves
all had been culled and branded by defendant except 50,000.
The defendant disputed the terms of the adjustment of May
30th and various other of the facts alleged by plaintiff, and insisted he was not bound to take any more staves than he had
paid for without an inspection, which he had not been allowed
to make. The verdict of the jury excluded the contract price of
the 50,000 unbranded staves, and the price of the 13,000 staves,
which defendant claimed to have paid others for, with the
consent of plaintiff; disposed of the issue as to ownership;
and necessarily determined the number of staves over and
above what had been paid for May 30, 1884, and the number
which had been culled and branded by the defendant, and
that the agreement between the parties was such that the
culling and branding amounted to an acceptance of the staves
so culled and branded, the delivery and acceptance being complete without any further inspection. The objections to the
petition amount simply to asserting that the ground of action
was imperfectly and inaccurately stated; and whatever defects,
imperfections or omissions there may have been, if not obviated

