OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument for the Motion.

:MR. JUSTICE HARLAN stated that he now believed that that
opinion was wrong and that he dissented from the judgment
of the court.

RADFORD v. FOLSOM.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 1014. Submitted November 5, 1888.-Decided November 26, 1888.

The final decree in a suit in equity, entered October 10, 1885, adjudged and
decreed that there was due to the administratrix of J. F. a sum named in
the decree, and that if, within ninety days from that date the court should
be satisfied that a certain other sum named as paid for the purchase of
notes, etc., had inured to the benefit of J. F. or his estate, that sum
should be credited on the amount so decreed to be paid; Held, that for
the purpose of an appeal the date of the decree was October 10, 1885.

Tins was a motion made by the administratrix of Jeremiah
Folsom, deceased, to dismiss an appeal. The reasons for the
dismissal, given in the motion were:
"That the decree appealed from was made and entered of
record in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa, Western Division, on the 10th day of October, 1885;
"That the appeal in the above entitled cause was not taken
until the 30th day of December, 1887, more than two years
after the entry of the decree, as aforesaid."
.Ar.
H. ,Tpi'nble
and -Yr. Joseph G. Anderson for the
motion, submitted on their brief.
This motion is based on ยง 1008 of the Revised Statutes, providing that no decree of a Circuit Court, in equity, shall be
reviewed in the Supreme Court on appeal unless the appeal is
taken within two years after the entry of such decree. That
the appeal in this case was taken more than two years after
the entry of the decree is plain. The decree was entered

RADFORD v. FOLSOM.
Argument against the Motion.

October 10, 1885. The appeal was not taken until December
30, 1887. This is clearly not within two years.
-Mr. Walter E. Smith (with whom was Mfrf. X. F. Sapf)
opposing.
The essential part of the decree was as follows:
"The court doth further adjudge and decree that there is
due from the plaintiff to the defendant, Agnes Folsom, as
administratrix of the estate and effects of Jeremiah Folsom,
deceased, the sum of fourteen thousand six hundred and fortyfive dollars and thirty-two cents, with interest *thereon from
the twentieth day of Dedember, A.D. 1884, at the rate of six
per cent per annum, being the amount of rents received by
the receiver in the cause in the state court mentioned in the
said report with interest less taxes, and the court doth adjudge and decree that the complainant, George W. IRadford,
as assignee in bankruptcy of the estate and effects of Simeon
Folsom and Frank Folsom, bankrupts, pay to the defendant,
Agnes Folsom, as administratrix of the estate and effects of
Jeremiah Folsom, deceased, the said sum of fourteen thousand six hundred and forty-five dollars and thirty-two cents
($14,645.32) with interest thereon at six per cent per annum,
from the twentieth day of December, A.D. 1884, and that execution- issue therefor."
"And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that if
the complainant shall satisfy the court, 'within ninety days
from this date," (that date being October 10, 1885,) "that the
amounts paid by Simeon Folsom for the purchase of the incumbrances and notes specified in the master's report, and
particularly in Schedules No. 1 and 2 thereto, amounting, in
the aggregate, to fourteen thousand and eighty-four dollars
and seventy-seven cents, ($14,084.7'7,) or any part thereof, have
enured to the benefit of Jeremiah Folsom or his estate, by the
production and cancellation or discharge of said incumbrances
and notes, in such manner as to terminate all liability thereon,
then, and in such case, there shall be credited on the amount

