176

OCTOBER 'TERI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

HANS NIELSEN, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT OF THE TER-

RITORY OF UTAH.
No. 1527. Argued April 18, 22, 1889.-

Decided May 13,18S9.

Where a court is without authority to pass a particular* sentence, such sentence is void, and the defendant imprisoned under it may be discharged
on habeas corpus.
A judgment in a criminal case denying to the prisoner a constitutional
right, or inflicting an unconstitutional penalty, is void, and he may be
discharged on habeas corpus.

THIS was an appeal from a final order of the District Court
for the First Judicial District of the Territory of Utah, refusing to issue a habeas corpus applied for by the petitioner, who
prayed to be discharged from custody and imprisonment on a
judgment rendered by said court on the 12th of March, 1889.
The judgment was that the petitioner, Hans Nielsen, having
been convicted of the crime of adultery, be imprisoned in the
penitentiary of the territory for the term of 125 days. The
appeal to this court is given by § 1909 of the Revised Statutes.
The case arose upon the statutes enacted by Congress for
the suppression of polygamy in Utah. The 3d section of fhe
act, approved March 22, 1882, entitled "An act to amend section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, in reference to bigamy, and for other
puposes," reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. That if any male person, in a territory or other
place over which the United States have exclusive jurisdiction,hereafter cohabits with more than one woman, he shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than three hundred
dollars, or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or
by both said punishments, in the discretion of the court." 22
Stat. 31, e. 47, § 3.
The 3d section of the act of March 3, 1887, entitled "An
act to amend an act entitled an act to amend section fifty-

HANS NIELSEI., Petitioner.

17

Statement of the Case.

three hundred and fifty-two of the Revised Statutes of the
United States, in reference to bigamy and for other purposes,"
reads as follows:
"SEc. 3. That whoever commits adultery shall be punished
by imprisonment in the penitentiary not exceeding three
years; and when the act is committed 'between a married,
woman and a man who is unmarried, both parties to such act
shall be deemed guilty of adultery; and when such act is
committed between a married man and a woman who is unmarried, the man shall be deemed guilty of adultery." 24: Stat.
635, c. 397, § 3.
On the 27th of September, 1888, two indictments were
found against the petitioner, Nielsen, in the District Court,
one under each of these statutes. The first charged that on
the 15th of October, 1885, and continuously from that time
till the 13th of May, 1888, in the district aforesaid, he, the
said Nielsen, did unlawfully claim, live and cohabit with more
than one woman as his wives, to wit, with Anna Lavinia Nielsen and Caroline Nielsen. To this indictment, on being arraigned, Nielsen on the 29th of September, 1888, pleaded
guilty; and on the 19th of November following he was sentenced to be imprisoned in the penitentiary for the term of
three months and to pay a fine of $100 and the costs.
The second indictment charged that said Nielsen, on the
14th of May, 1888, in the same district, did unlawfully and
feloniously commit adultery with one Caroline Nielsen, he
being a married man and having a lawful wife, and not being
married to said Caroline. Being arraigned on this indictment
on the 29th of September, 1888, after having pleaded guilty
to the other, Nielsen pleaded not guilty, and that he had
already been convicted of the offence charged in this indictment by his plea of guilty to the other.
After he had suffered the penalty imposed by the sentence
for unlawful cohabitation, the indictment for adultery came
on for trial, and the petitioner, by leave of the court, entered
orally a more formal plea of former conviction, in which he
set up the said indictment for unlawful cohabitation, his plea
of guilty thereto, and his sentence upon said plea, and claimed
voL. cxi--12

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

that the charge of unlawful cohabitation, though formally
made only for the period from 15th October, 1885, to 13th
May, 1888, yet, in law, covered the entire period from October, 1885, to the time of finding the indictment, September
27th, 1888, and thus embraced the time within which the
crime of adultery was charged to have been committed; and
he averred that the Caroline Nielsen with whom he was
charged to have unlawfully cohabited as a wife, was the
same person with whom he was now charged to have committed adultery; that the unlawful cohabitation charged in
the first indictment continued without intermission to the date
of finding that indictment; and that the offence charged in
both indictments was one and the same offenpce and not divisible, and that he had suffered the fall penalty prescribed
therefor.
To this plea the district attorney demurred, the court sustained the demurrer, and the petitioner, being convicted on
the plea of not guilty, was sentenced to be imprisoned in the
penitentiary for the term of 125 days. The sentence was as
follows, to wit:
"The defendant, with his counsel, came into court. Defendant was then asked if he had any legal cause to show why
judgment should not be pronounced against him, to which he
replied that he had none; and no sufficient cause being shown
or appearing to the court, thereupon the court rendered its
judgment:
"That whereas said defendant, Hans Nielsen, having been
duly convicted in this court of the 9rime of adultery, it is
therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said Hans
Nielsen be imprisoned in the penitentiary of the Territory of
Utah, at the county of Salt Lake, for the term of one hundred
and twenty-five days.
"You, said defendant, Hans Nielsen, are rendered into the
custody of the United States marshal for the Territory of Utah,
to be by him delivered into the custody of the warden or other
proper officer of said penitentiary.
"You, said warden or other proper officer of said penitentiary, are hereby commanded to receive of and from said

HANS NIELSEN, Petitioner.
Argument against Petitioner.

United States marshal him, the said Hans Nielsen, convicted
and sentenced as aforesaid, and him, the said Hans Nielsen, to
safely keep and imprison in said penitentiary for the term as
in this judgment ordered and specified."
Thereupon being delivered into the custody of the marshal,
the defendant below, on the next day, or day following, during
the same term of the court, presented to the court his petition
for a habeas eorpus, setting forth the indictments, proceedings
and judgments in both cases, and his suffering of the sentence
on the first indictment, and claiming that the court had no jurisdiction to pass judgment against him upon more than one
of the indictments, and that he was being punished twice for
one and the same offence. As before stated, the court being
of opinion that if the writ were granted he could not be discharged from custody, refused his application. That order
was appealed from.
MAr. Jeremiah .X.Wilson, and .Mr.Franklin S. -Richards
for the petitioner, appellant.
_Mr. Solicitor General, 6n behalf of the United States, opposing.
I. The record in this case does not show want of jurisdiction in the court below, but only alleged errors of the court in
the exercise of its jurisdiction. If the judgment of the court
in sustaining the demurrer was wrong, it was an error, but the
error was one of judgment. The judgment might be voidable
for error, but was not void for want of power, and, until reversed, was conclfisive. E parte Iatkins, 3 Pet. 191, 202.
The writ of habeas corpus should not be converted into a mere
writ of error. Epxparte Parke, 93 U. S. 18; Exparte Carll,
106 U. S. 521; .Ex parte Bigelow, 113 U. S. 328; Pitner v.
The State, 44 Texas, 578.
II. The defendant was not placed twice in jeopardy for the
same offence.
(1) The offences charged in the first and second indictments
are not the same. The first indictment charges unlawful co-

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Argument against Petitioner.

habitation under the third section of the act of the 22d of
March, 1882, 22 Stat. 31. Its descriptive language is, "hereafter cohabits with more than one woman." The second
charges adultery under the third section of the act of the
19th of February, 1887, 24 Stat. 635. Its descriptive language is, "whoever commits adultery." The definition of
adultery is: The voluntary sexual intercourse of a married
person with a person other than the offender's husband or
wife. 1 Bouvier's Law Dictionary, 126. The essential elements of this crime are that the offender shall be married;
that he or she shall have sexual intercourse with a person
other than his or her husband or wife; that his or her husband
or wife shall be living at the time of the act. No one of these
elements is essential to the offence of "unlawful cohabitation."
The word "cohabit" in the statute means "to be together as
husband and wife." The offence is to live with more than one
woman, holding out to the world by word or deed that such
women are the wives of the offender. Neither actual marriage nor sexual intercourse are essential elements of this
offence. These propositions are all sustained by the opinion
of this court in the case of Cannon v. United States, 116
U. S. 55.
(2) The first indictment is for a continuous offence. The
time laid in it is: "On the 15th day of October, 1885,
and on divers days thereafter, and continuously between the
day last aforesaid and the 13th day of May, 1888." Under
this indictment no evidence could have been received of any
act done on the 14th day of May, 1888, nor on any other day
later than the 13th. Commonwealth v. Robinsono, 126 Mass.
259. The time laid in the second indictment is, "On the 14th
day of May, 1888." There is no period of time that is common in the two indictments. No evidence could have been
given on the first indictment for any offence committed as
charged in the second. The records therefore relied on by the
petitioner do not show that he was placed twice in jeopardy,
but show on the contrary, primfaoie, that he was not. The
burden of proving the identity of the offences is on the defendant. Wharton's Crim. Pl. and 1r. § 483.

HANS NIELSEN, Petitioner.

181

Argument against Petitioner.
(3) But even if the offence of "unlawful cohabitation"
included one element of the crime of adultery, and both had
been laid within the same time, it is not conceded that the
petitioner was thereby placed twice in jeopardy. ifoore v.
People of the State of illinois,14 How. 20.
In the case of -Morey v. Commonwealth, 108 Mass. 433, the
defendant had been indicted at September Term, 1867, for lewd
and lascivious association and cohabitation with Bridget Kennedy. The offence was laid from October 1, 1866, continuously
to August 1, 1867. He was convicted. At the same term he
was convicted for adultery with Bridget Kennedy, in which
the dates were laid January 1, June 1 and August 1, 1867.
The court ruled that he had not been twice convicted of the
same offence. The conclusion is thus stated by Gray, J.,
delivering the opinion: "The indictment for adultery alleged
and required proof that the plaintiff in error was married to
another woman, and would be satisfied by proof of that fact
and of a single act of unlawful intercourse. Proof of unlawful intercourse was indeed necessary to support such indictment. But the plaintiff in error could not have been convicted
upon the first indictment by proof of such intercourse, and of
his marriage, without proof of continuous unlawful cohabitation; nor upon the second indictment by proof of such cohabi"tation, without proof of his marriage. Full proof of the
offence charged in either indictment would not, therefore, of
itself, have warranted any conviction upon the other. The
necessary consequence is, that assuming that proof of the
same act or acts of unlawful intercourse was introduced on the
trial of both indictments, the conviction upon the first indictment was no bar to a conviction and sentence upon the.
second."
The authorities bearing upon the question are fully cited,
compared and discussed in the above case; among others the
case of Commonwealth v. Roby, 12 Pick. 496, in which it was
ruled a conviction for assault with intent to murder did not
bar a conviction for murder committed by the same act.
In the case of State v. RDder, 65 Indiana, 282, it is ruled:
"But when the same facts constitute two or more offences,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

wherein the lesser offence is not necessarily involvdd in the
greater, and when the facts necessary to convict on a second
prosecution would not necessarily have convicted on the first,
then the first prosecution will not be a bar to the second,
although the offences were both committed at the same time
and by the same act." See also Commonwealth v. .AeShane,
110 Mass. 502, and authorities there cited; and Shannon v.
Commonwealth, 14 Penn. St. 226. Where the evidence to
support the second indictment would have been sufficient to
procure a legal conviction upon the first, the plea is generally
good, but not otherwise. 1 Wharton's Crim. Law, Pr., P1.
and Ev. §§ 565 and 565a.
MR. JusTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
The first question to be considered, is, whether, if'the petitioner's position was true, that he had been convicted twice
for the same offence, and that the court erred in its decision,
he could have relief by habeas cor2us ?
The objection to the remedy of habeas corpus, of course,
would be, that there was in force a regular judgment of conviction, which could not be questioned collaterally, as it would
have to be on habeas co'pus. But there are exceptions to this
rule which have more than once been acted upon by this court.
It is firmly established that if the court which renders a judgment has not jurisdiction to render it, either because the
proceedings, or the law under which they are taken, are unconstitutional, or for any other reason, the judgment is void and
may be questioned collaterally, and a defendant who is imprisoned under and by virtue of it may be discharged from custody
on habeas corpus. This was so decided in the cases of E~xparte
Iange, 18 Wall. 163, and Exyarte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, and
in several other cases referred to therein. In the case of In Pe
Snow, 120 U. S. 274, we held that only one indictment and
conviction of the crime of unlawful cohabitation, under the act
of 1882, could be had for the time preceding the finding of the
indictment, because the crime was a continuous one, and was

RANS NIELSEN, Petitionez.
Opinion of the Court.

but a single crime until prosecuted; that a second conviction
and punishment of the same crime, for any part of said period,
was an excess of authority on the part of the District Court of
Utah; and that a habeas corpus would lie for the discharge of
the defendant imprisoned on such conviction. In that case,
the habeas corpus was applied for at a term subsequent to that
at which the judgment was rendered; but we did not regard
this circumstance as sufficient to prevent the prisoner from
having his remedy by that writ.
It is true that, in the case of Snow, we laid emphasis on the
fact that the double conviction for the same offence appeared
on the face of the judgment; but if it appears in the indictment, or anywhere else in the record, (of which the judgment
is only a part,) it is sufficient. In the present case it appeared
on the record in the plea of autre fois convict, which was admitted to be true by the demurrer of the government. We
think that this was sufficient. It was laid down by this court
in In re Coy, 127 U. S. 731, 758, that the power of Congress
to pass a statute under which a prisoner is held in custody
may be inquired into under a writ of habeas corpus as affecting the jurisdiction of the court which ordered his imprisonment; and the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Miller, adds:
"And if their want of power appears on the face of the record
of his condemnation, whether in the indictment or elsewhere,
the court which has authority to issue the writ is bound to
release him:" referring to Eoparte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371.
In the present case, it is true, the ground for the habeas
corpus was, not the invalidity of an act of Congress under
which the defendant was indicted, but a second prosecution
and trial for the same offence, contrary to an express provision
of the Constitution. In other )vords, a constitutional immunity of the defendant was violated by the second trial and
judgment. It is difficult to see why a conviction and punishment under an unconstitutional law is more violative of a person's constitutional rights, than an unconstitutional conviction
and punishment under a valid law. In the first case, it is true,
the court has no authority to take cognizance of the case;
but, in the other, it has no authority to render judgment

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

against the defendant. This was the case in Ex parte Lange,
where the court had authority to hear and determine the case,
but we held that it had no anthority to give the judgment it
did. It was the same in the case of Snow: the court had
authority over the case, but we held that it had no authority
to give judgment against the prisoner. He was protected by
a constitutional provision, securing to him a fundamental
right. It was not a case of mere error in law, but a case of
denying to a person a constitutional right. And where such
a case appears on the record, the.party is entitled to be discharged from imprisonment. The distinction between the
case of a mere error in law, and of one in which the judgment
is void, is pointed out in Ex 2arte Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, 375,
and is illustrated by the case of Ex parte Parks,as compared
with the cases of Lange and Snow. In the case of Parks
there was an alleged misconstruction of a statute. We held
that to be a mere error in law, the court having jurisdiction
of the case. In the cases of Lange and Snow, there was a
denial or invasion of a constitutional right. A party is entitled to a habeas corpus, not merely where the court is without jurisdiction of the cause, but where it has no constitutional
authority or power to condemn the prisoner. As said by
Chief Baron Gilbert, in a passage quoted in .Exparte Parks,
93 U. S.I8, 22, "If the-commitment be against law, as being
made by one who had no jurisdiction of the cause, or for a
matter for which by law no man ought to be punished, the
court are to discharge." This was said in reference to cases
which had gone to conviction and sentence. Lord Hale laid
down the same doctrine in almost the same words. 2 Hale's
Pleas of the Crown, 144. And why should not such a rule
prevail infavorem libertatis? If we have seemed to hold the
contrary in any case, it has been from inadvertence. The law
could hardly be stated with more categorical accuracy than it
is in the opening sentence of _Ex parte Wilson, 114 U. S. 417,
420, where Mr. Justice Gray, speaking for the court, said:
"It is well settled by a series of decisions that this court, having no jurisdiction of criminal cases by writ of error or appeal,
cannot discharge on habeas corpus a person imprisoned under

HANS NIELSEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

the sentence of a Circuit or District Court in a criminal case
unless the sentence exceeds the jurisdiction of that court, or
there is no authority to hold him under the sentence." This
proposition, it is true, relates to the power of this court to discharge on habeas co'us persons sentenced by the Circuit and
District Courts; but, with regard to the power of discharging
on habeas coyus, it is generally true that, after conviction
and sentence, the writ only lies when the sentence exceeds the
jurisdiction of the court, or there is no authority to hold the
defendant under it. In the present case, the sentence given
was beyond the jurisdiction of the court, because it was
against an express provision of the Constitution, which bounds
and limits all jurisdiction.
Being of opinion, therefore, that habeas co7yTus was a proper
remedy for the petitioner, if the crime of adultery with which
he was charged was included in the crime of unlawful cohabitation for which he was convicted and punished, that question
is now to be considered.
We will revert for a moment to the case of In re Snow.
Three crimes of unlawful cohabitation were charged against
Snow, in three indictments, the crimes being laid continuous
with each other, one during the year 1883, one during 1884,
and one during 1885. We held that they constituted but a
single crime. In the present case there were two indictments;
one for unlawful cohabitation with two women down to ]ray
13th, 1888, and the other for adultery with one of the women
the following day, May 14th, 1888. If the unlawful cohabitation continued after the 13th of May, and if the adultery
was only a part of, and incident to it, then an indictment for
the adultery was no more admissible, after conviction of the
unlawful cohabitation, than a second indictment for unlawful
cohabitation would have been; and for the very good reason,
that the first indictment covered all continuous unlawful cohabitation down to the time it was found. The case would
then be exactly the same as that of 164 re Snow. By way of
illustrating the argument we quote from the opinion in that
case. Mr. Justice Blatchford delivering the opinion of the
court, said: "The offence of cohabitation, in the sense of this

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

statute, is committed if there is a living or dwelling together
as husband and wife. It is inherently a continuous offence,
having duration; and not an offence consisting of an isolated
act. Thai it was intended in that sense in these indictments
is shown by the fact that in each the charge laid is that the
defendant did on the day named and 'thereafter and continuously,' for the time specified, ' live and cohabit with more
than one woman, to wit, with' the seven women named, and,
' during all the period aforesaid' 'did unlawfully claim, live
and cohabit with all of said women as his wives.' Thus, in
each indictment, the offence is laid as a continuing one, and a
single one, for all the time covered by the indictment; and,
taking the three indictments together, there is charged a continuing offence for the entire time covered by all three of the
indictments. There was but a single offence committed prior
to the time the indictments were found.

.

.

.

On the

same principle there might have been an indictment covering
each of the thirty-five months, with imprisonment for seventeen years and a half, and fines amounting to $10,500, or even
an indictment covering every week.

.

.

.

It is to prevent

such an application of penal laws, that the rule has obtained
that a continuing offence of the character of the one in this
case can be committed but once, for the purposes of indictment or prosecution, prior to the time the prosecution is instituted." These views were established by an examination of
many authorities.
Now, the petitioner, in his plea, averred in terms that the
unlawful cohabitation, with which he was charged in the first
indictment, continued without intermission up to the time of
finding that indictment, covering the time within which the
adultery was laid in the second indictment. He also averred
that the two indictments were found against him upon the
testimony of the same witnesses, on one oath and one examination as to the alleged offence, covering the entire time specified in both indictments. This plea was demurred to by the
prosecution, and the demurrer was sustained. The averments
of the plea, therefore, must be taken as true. And, assuming
them to be true, can it be doubted that the adultery charged

HANS IKIELSEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

in the second indictment was an incident and part of the unlawful cohabitation? We have no doubt of it. True, in the
case of Snow, we held that it was not necessary to prove
sexual intercourse in order to make out a case of unlawful
cohabitation; that livitig together as man and wife was sufficient; but this was only because proof of sexual intercourse
would have been merely cumulative evidence of the fact.
Living together as man and wife is what we decided was
meantby unlawful cohabitation under the statute. Of course,
that includes sexual intercourse. And this was the integral
part of the adultery charged in the second indictment; and
was covered by and included in the first indictment and conviction. The case was the same as if the first indictment had
in terms laid the unlawful cohabitation for the whole period
preceding the finding of the indictment. The conviction on
that indictment was in law a conviction of a crime which was
continuous, extending over the whole period, including the
time when the adultery was alleged to have been committed.
The petitioner's sentence, and the punishment he underwent
on the first indictment, was for that entire, continuous crime.
It included the adultery charged. To convict and punish him
for that also was a second conviction and punishment for the
same offence. Whether an acquittal would have had the same
effect to bar the second indictment is a different question, on
which we express no opinion. We are satisfied that a conviction was a good bar, and that the court was wrong in overruling it. We think so because the material part of the
adultery charged was comprised within the unlawful cohabitation of which the petitioner was already convicted and for
which he had suffered punishment.
The conclusion we have reached is in accord with a proposition laid down by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts
in the case of .3orey v. Commonwealth, 108 Mass. 433, 435.
The court there says, by Mr. Justice Gray: "A conviction of
being a common seller of intoxicating liquors has been held to
bar a prosecution for a single sale of such liquors within the
same time, upon the ground that the lesser offence, which is
fully -proved by evidence of the mere fact of unlawfully mak-

OCTOBER TERI,

1888.

Opinion of the Court.

ing a sale, is merged in the greater offence; but an acquittal
of the offence of being a common seller does not have the like
effect. Commonwealth v. Jenks, 1 Gray, 490, 492; Commonwealth v. Hudson, 14 Gray, 11; Commonwealth v.*.Mead, 10
Allen, 396." Whilst this proposition paccords so nearly with
our own views, it is but fair to say that the decision in .Aforey
v. CommonwealtAh is the principal one relied on by the government to sustain the action of the District Court of Utah in this
case.. Morey was charged under a statute in one indictment
with lewdly and lasciviously associating and cohabiting with
a certain female to whom he was not married; and in another
indictment he was charged with committing adultery with the
same person on certain days within the period of the alleged
cohabitation. The court held that a conviction on the first
indictment was no bar to the second, although proof of the
same acts of unlawful intercourse was introduced on both
trials. The ground of the decision was, that the evidence
required to support the two indictments was not the same.
The court said: "A conviction or acquittal upon one indictment is no bar to a subsequent conviction and sentence upon
another, unless the evidence required to support a conviction
upon one of them would have been sufficient to warrant a
conviction upon the other. The test is not, whether the defendant has already been tried for the same act, but whether
he has been put in jeopardy for the same offence. A single
act may be an offence against two statutes; and if each statute requires proof of an additional fact which the other does
not, an acquittal or conviction under either statute does not
exempt the defendant from prosecution and punishment under
the other." p. 434. We think, however, that that case is
distinguishable from the present. The crime of loose and
lascivious association and cohabitation did not necessarily imply sexual intercourse, like that of living together as man and
wife, though strongly presumptive of it. But be that as it
may, it seems to us very clear that where, as in this case, a
person has been tried and convicted for a crime which has
various incidents included in it, he cannot be a second tim6'
tried for one of those incidents without being twice put in
jeopardy for the same offence.

HANS NIELSEN, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

It may be contended that adultery is not an incident of unlawful cohabitation, because marriage of one of the parties
must be strictly proved. To this it may be answered, that
whilst this is true, the other ingredient (which is an incident
of unlawful cohabitation) is an essential and principal ingredient of adultery; and, though marriage need not be strictly
proved on a charge of unlawful cohabitation, yet it is well
known that the statute of 1882 was aimed against polygamy,
or the having of two or more wives; and it is construed by
this court as requiring, in order to obtain a conviction under
it, that the parties should live together as husband and wives.
It is familiar learning that there are many cases in which a
conviction or an acquittal of a greater crime is a bar to a subsequent prosecution for a lesser one. In Air. Wharton's Treatise on Criminal Law, vol. 1, § 560, the rule is stated as follows,
to wit: "An acquittal or conviction for a greater offence is a
bar to a subsequent indictment for a minor offence included
in the former, wherever, under the indictment for the greater
offence, the defendant could have been convicted of the less;"
and he instances several cases in which the rule applies ;. for
example, "An acquittal on an indictment for robbery, burglary,
and larceny, may be pleaded to an indictment for larceny of
the same goods, because upon the former indictment the defendant might have been convicted of larceny." "If one be
indicted for murder, and acquitted, he cannot be again indicted
for manslaughter." "If a party charged with the crime of
murder, committed in the perpetration of a burglary, be generally acquitted on that indictment, be cannot afterwards be
convicted of a burglary with violence, under 7 Win. IV and 1
Vic. c. 86, 2, as the general acquittal on the charge of murder
would be an answer to that part of the indictment containing
the allegation of violence." "An acquittal for seduction is a
bar to an indictment for fornication with the sam6 prosecutrix."
"On the same principle, in those States where, on an indictment for adultery, there could be a conviction for fornication,
an acquittal of adultery is a bar to a prosecution for fornication." It will be observed that all these instances are supposed
cases of acquittal; and in order that an acquittal may be a bar

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

to a subsequent indictment for the lesser crime, it would seem
to be essential that a conviction of such crime might have been
had under the indictment for the greater. If a conviction might
have been had, and was not, there was an implied acquittal.
But where a conviction for a less crime cannot be had under
an indictment for a greater which includes it, there it is plain
that while an acquittal would not or might not be a bar, a
conviction of the greater crime would involve the lesser also,
and would be a bar; and then the proposition first above
quoted from the opinion in Mforey v. Commonweatlth would
apply. Thus, in the case of The State v. Cooper, 1 Green,
N. J. Law, 361, where the defendant was first indicted and
convicted of arson, and was afterwards indicted for the murder
of a man burnt and killed in' the fire produced by the arson,
the Supreme Court of New Jersey held that the conviction of
the arson was a bar to the indictment for murder, which was
the result of the arson. So, in State v. Nutt, 28 Vermont, 598,
where a person was convicted of being a common seller of
liquor, it was held that he could not afterwards be prosecuted
for a single act of selling within the same period. "If," said
the court, "the government see fit to go for the offence of
being a 'common seller,' and the respondent is adjudged
guilty, it must, in a certain sense, be considered as a merger
of all the distinct acts of sale up to the filing of the complaint,
and the respondent cannot be punished but for one offence."
Whereas, in CommonweaZth v. H.udson, 14 Gray, 11, after an
acquittal as a common seller, it was held that the defendant
might be indicted for a single act of selling during the same
period. See 1 Bishop's Crim. Law, 5th ed. § 1054, etc.
The books are full of cases that bear more or less upon the
subject we are discussing. As our object is simply to decide
the case before us, and not to write a general treatise, we con'tent ourselves, in addition to what has already been said, with
simply announcing our conclusion, which is, that the conviction of the petitioner of the crime of unlawful cohabitation
was a bar to his subsequent prosecution for the crime of
adultery; that the court was without authority to give judgment and sentence in the latter case, and should have vacated

