UNITED STATES v. PERRIN.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. PERRIiN.
CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION IN OPINION FROI THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORIfA.
No. 1035.

Submitted April 9, 1889. -Decided

May 13,1889.

There is no general right of appeal to this court in criminal cases.
United States v. 'Hall, ante, 50, affirmed and applied to the certificates of
division in opinion in this case.

TiE case is stated in the opinion. This cause coming on to
be heard next after United States v. Hfall, ante, 50, the court
declined to hear argument upon it.
.Mr.Attorney General and MAr: JoAn T. Carey for plaintiff
in error.
.&. Walter IT Smith, Mr'. Frank H Hfurd and _Atr. Tiliamrn XE. Stewart for defendant in error.
MR.

JUsTIF

MLLR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case also comes before us by virtue of a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges holding the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of California, upon
an indictment against George H. Perrin, John McNee and John
H. Benson for conspiracy. The indictment consists of three
counts. They set out, so far as we can gather from the confused statement, that the three defendants entered into a conspiracy with some one else, to the jurors unknown, to defraud
the United States of a large sum of money, to wit, $492; that
in pursuance of said conspiracy they procured a contract to be
made between George H. Perrin, then a deputy United States
surveyor, and William H. Brown, surveyor general for the
State of California, for the survey of certain township lines;
that said Perrin produced a fraudulent, fictitious and pretended
survey of the lands described in that contract, and caused fictitious and fraudulent field-notes of said pretended survey to

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

be made and returned to the United States surveyor general;
whereas, in point of fact, no such surveys had been made,
and said field-notes were utterly false and fictitious. Wherefore it is alleged that in this manner the said Perrin, MlcNee
and Benson fraudulently and corruptly conspired and agreed
together to defraud the United States of the sum-of money
aforesaid.
The second count attempts to recite the same contract and
the same pretended survey and field-notes, and that by these
false documents and pretences William.H. Brown, the United
States surveyor general, was deceived and induced to certify
the sum accrued to and earned by said Perrin.
The third count, in addition to these charges, adds that the
false and corrupt field-notes were accompanied by a wilful
and corrupt oath and affidavit that they were all true, and
that Perrin had marked said corners and established said lines
in the specific manner described in said field-notes, when in
truth and in fact he had not in his own proper person made
any actual survey of these lines at all.
To each of these counts there was filed a demurrer setting up
thirty grounds for its support. Upon the argument of this
demurrer the judges certified seven questions as regards each
of these counts, upon which they differed in opinion. As these
are the same in regard to each count, those relating to the first
count will be stated, .as follows:
"1. Do the facts stated in the first count of the indictment
constitute an offence under section 5440 df the Revised Statutes as amended in 1879, 1 Supl. Rev. Stat. 484, and section
5438 of the Revised Statutes?
"2. Are sufficient facts stated in the first count of the indictmeit to make a good count under sections 5-40 a nd 5438
Revised Statutes; or'under section 5440 alone; or.under section 5440 in connection with any other provision of- the
statutes?
"3. Does the first count of the indictment sufficiently describe an offence under sections 5440 and 5438, or any other
provision of the Revised Statutes, or under section 5440 alone?
"4. Are the means by which the parties conspired and

UNITED STATES v. PERRIN-.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed to defraud the United States set forth with sufficient
fulness and particularity in the first count of the indictment
to constitute a good count in that particular?
"5. Is any overt act performed by any one of the alleged
conspirators to effect the object of the conspiracy sufficiently
stated in the first count of the indictment to constitute a good
count in that particular?
"6. If there is any defect or imperfection in the first count
of the indictment, is it in the matter of form only, not tending
to the prejudice of the-defendant, within the meaning of section 1025, Revised Statutes?
7. Does the surveying contract set out in the first count
'"
of the indictment appear, upon all the allegations of the count,
to be the individual private contract of W. H. Brown, or a
contract made in his official character as surveyor-general, on
behalf of and binding upon the United States?"
We are not able to discover in any one of these points that
clear and distinct presentation of a question of law which we
have so repeatedly held to be necessary to invoke the action of
this court. Indeed, they are but a repetition in various forms
of the question whether the indictment presents facts sufficient
to constitute an offence under the statute against conspiracy.
The indictment is so diffuse and obscure, presenting in no
point a distinct issue of law on which the guilt of the defendants must rest, that it is impossible to decide any of the points
without the most laborious wandering through the whole of
the three counts of the indictment, and passing upon the whole
question whether, under all the circumstances set out, the parties are liable to the indictment.
The authorities on that subject have been reviewed so often
and we have so recently considered the question, that it is a
waste of time to consider it further. It is sufficient to say
that the system of criminal law of the United States does not
contemplate a general right of appeal from the courts trying
criminals to this court; it does not intend that in all cases
before the trial is had the instructions of this court, concerning matters which may come in issue, shall be delivered as a
guide to the court that is to try the cause. The purpose of

