OCTOBER TERi,

1888.

Statement of the Case.

power as his own; in the second, the presumption is the opposite, that he received it for his wife, the act of assembly having declared it hers, and for her 'sole and separate use.'
And again: "If it was not a gift, the husband was a trustee
for his wife, and whether he kept the money in his pocket or
put it into real estate which he had purchased, honesty required that he should acco*unt to her for it. He could be
compelled to do so in equity."
There are decisions of courts of some of the other States,
holding that a presumption arises of a gift from the wife to
the husband of moneys placed by her in his hands, unless an
express promise is made by him at the time that he will account to her for them or invest them for her benefit. But
the decisions we have cited are more in accordance, we think,
with the spirit and purpose of the Married Woman's Act, and
only by conformity with them can it be fully carried out.
Here there are no creditors alleging that they gave credit to
the deceased upon his supposed ownership of the property
standing in his name, or any other circumstance calling for
any qualification of the widow's right to claim an application
of that property to the payment of the moneys by which it
was acquired, received from her to be invested for her benefit,
and in her name.
Decree afined.
CREHORE v. OHIO AND MISSISSIPPI RAILWAY

COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COITRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 272. Decided May 13, 1889.
A fatal defect in the allegation of diverse citizenship in a petition for the
removal of a cause from a state court for that reason, cannot be corrected in the Circuit Court of the United States.

Tmis was a case commenced in a state court and removed
thence on the ground of diverse citizenship of the parties.

CREHORE v. OHIO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Argument for the Motion.

The case was reached on the calendar on the 24th April, 1889.
After argument was commenced, the court, for reasons which
are stated in the opinion below, did not desire to hear further
argument and ordered it remanded to the Circuit Court, with
directions to remand it to the state court. In the interim
between the close of hearing arguments on the 26th April,
and the close of the term on the 13th May, a petition on
behalf of the defendant in error was filed praying that the
mandate might be modified by omitting the direction to remand the cause to the state court, in .order that the defect
might be corrected in the Circuit Court.
3r. Lawrence ffaxwell, Tr., for the motion.

I concede that the judgment should be reversed. But the
further question is whether, if this court were simply to reverse the judgment and remand the case to the Circuit Court,
it would be competent for the defendant to take steps there,
or in the state court, to correct and amend its former defective
proceedings for removal, so as to make the record conform to
the fact, and to secure the removal of which it was really entitled. I submit that the answer to this question is clear upon
principle, and furthermore that the question is determined in
our favor by repeated decisions of this court. Parker v. Overman, 18 How. 137; Grace v. American Central Ins. Co., 109
U. S. 278; Thayer v. Life Association, 112 U. S. 717.
In view of these decisions, the statement attributed to Mr.
Justice Miller, in the report of Cameron v. Hodges, 127 U. S.
322, that no precedent was known which would authorize an
amendment to be made in the Circuit Court, by which grounds
of jurisdiction might be made to appear, which were not presented to the state court on the motion for removal, would
seem to be inadvertent. The point really decided in Cameron
v. -odges is however not open to dispute, for it is clear that
the record in the Circuit Court cannot be cured, as was there
attempted, by affidavits filed in this court.
It is not just that the defendant should lose the benefit of
a jurisdiction to which it was entitled under the law, because
VOL. Cxxxi--:16

OCTOBE R TERAI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

of the mere inadvertent omission of its counsel, to which attention was never directed, and which was overlooked, not
only by all of the parties and counsel, but by the court itself,
and discovered by no one until long after the cause had come
into this court.
In Stevens v. -Ticko Zs, 130 U. S. 230, there was no application in this court to have the cause remanded for further proceedings in the Circuit Court, nor any showing that the citizenship of the parties was in fact such at the commencement
of the action, as to have warranted the removal. The point
now raised in this case was therefore not presented or passed
upon, and the circumstance that the judgment of reversal directed that the case should be remanded to the state court, cannot be regarded as an adjudication of the point presented now,
much less as an overruling of the long line of decisions in this
court, to which I have called attention.
.Xr.John 3aso

Brown opposing.

MR. JusToE L&. .nx. delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was brought by the plaintiff in error, who was
the plaintiff below, in the Louisville (Kentucky) Law and
Equity Court, against the Ohio and Mississippi Railway Company, to recover damages for personal injuries alleged to have
been sustained by him, while a passenger upon the road of
that company, by reason of the wilful neglect of those by
whom it was operated. The company, on the 24th of November, 1884, filed its petition, accompanied by bond in proper
form, for the removal of the case, upon the ground of the
diverse citizenship of the parties, into the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kentucky. Thereupon an
order was made by the state court that it would proceed no
further. The case was docketed and tried in the Circuit Court
of the United States, and resulted in a verdict for the defendant, followed by a judgment dismissing the plaintiff's petition.
From that judgnent the plaintiff prosecuted a writ of error.
At the argument in this court at the present term, attention

CREHORE v. OHIO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

was called to the fact that the record did not sufficiently show
the citizenship of the parties at the commencement of the
action, as well as at the time of the application for removal.
Stevens v. .Nichols, 130 U. S. 230. Upon this ground an order
was entered reversing the judgment of the Circuit Court,
and remanding the cause, with directions that it be sent back
to the state court. The case is again before us upon a motion
in behalf of the railway company, that the judgment of reversal be so framed as to omit therefrom an absolute direction to
the Circuit Court to remand the cause to the state court, to
the end that the defendant may take steps for the correction
and amendment of the petition for removal, and of the record
and proceedings in that behalf.
It is conceded that the record does not show affirmatively
the citizenship of the parties at the commencement of the
action in the state court, and that the judgment, for that reason, must be reversed.
Upon the filing by either party, or by any one or more of
the plaintiffs or defendants, "entitled to remove any suit,"
mentioned in the first or second sections of the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, of the petition and bond required by its
third section, "it shall then be the duty of the state court to
accept said petition and bond, and proceed no further in such
suit." The effect of filing the required petition and bond in a
removable case is, as said in Railroad Co. v. 3lississippi, 102
U. S. 135, 141, that the state court is thereafter "without
jurisdiction" to proceed further in the suit; or in Railroad
Co. v. Eoontz, 104 U. S. 5, 14, its rightful jurisdiction comes
to "an end;" or, in Steamship Co. v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118,
122, "upon the filing, therefore, of the petition and the bond
-the
suit being removable under the statute -the jurisdiction of the state court absolutely ceased, and that of the Circuit Court of the United States immediately attached." It
has, also, been repeatedly held, particularly in Stone v. South
Carolina,117 U. S. 430, 432, following substantially Railroad
Co. v. Koontz, that, "a state court is not bound to surrender
its jurisdiction of the suit on a petition for removal until a case
has been made which on its face shows that the petitioner has

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

a right to the transfer ;" and that, "the mere filing of a petition for the removal of a suit, which is not removable, does

not work a transfer. To accomplish this the suit must be one
that may be removed, and the petition must show a right in
the petitioner to demand the removal. This being made to
appear on the record, and the necessary security having been
given, the power of the state court in the case ends, and that
of the Circuit Court begins." These decisions were in line
with Insurance Co. v. Pechner 95 U. S. 183, 185, arising under
the judiciary act of 1789, in which it was held that a "petition
for removal when filed becomes a part of the record in the
cause;" that the party seeking the removal should state
"facts which, taken in connection with such as already appear,
entitle him to transfer;" and that, "if he fails in this, he has
not, in law, shown to the court that it cannot 'proceed further
with the cause."'
It thus appears that a case is not, in law, removed from the
state court, upon the ground that it involves a controversy
between citizens of different States, unless, at the time the application for removal is made, the record, upon its face, shows
it to be one that is removable. We say, upon its face, because
"the state court is only at liberty to inquire whether, on the
face-of the record, a case has been made which requires it to
proceed no further;" and "al issues of fact made upon the
petition for removal must be tried in the Circuit Court." Stone
v. South Carolina,117 U. S. 430, 432; Carson v. Hyatt, 118
U. S. 279, 287. If the case be not removed, the jurisdiction of
the state court remains unaffected, and, under the act of Congress, the jurisdiction of the Federal court could not attachuntil it becomes the duty of the state court to proceed no further. Ko such duty arises unless a case is made by the record
that entitles the party to a removal.
All this is made entirely clear by the express requirement of
the act of 1875, that the Circuit Court shall remand "to the
court from which it was removed" any cause brought from that
court, whenever it appears that it is not one of which the Federal court can properly take cognizance. Cameron v. Bodges,
127 U. S. 322, 326. If,a suit entered upon the docket of a

CREHORE v. OHIO &c. RAILWAY CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court as removed upon the ground of the diverse citizenship of the parties, was never, in law, removed from the
state court, no amendment of the record made in the former

could affect the jurisdiction of the latter or put the case rightfully on the docket of the Circuit Court as of the date when
it was there docketed; for the only mode provided in the act
of Congress by which the jurisdiction of the state court of a
controversy between citizens of different States can be divested
is by presenting a petition and bond in that court showing, in
connection with the record, a case that is removable. The present motion, in effect, is that such amendment of the record may
be made in the Circuit Court, as will show that this case mighthave been removed from the state court, not that, in law, it has
ever been so removed.
This question was before us at the present term in Stevens v.
.MAiclols, above cited, which was brought in a state court, and
tried in a Circuit Court of the 'United States as one involving
a controversy between citizens of different States, and, therefore, removable from the state court. But as the record did
not show that it was a removable case, the judgment was reversed, with directions to send the case back to the state court.
It is proper to say that the question was there fully considered,
although it was not deemed necessary to state the reasons for
the conclusion then reached. The present motion, bringing that
question distinctly before us, seemed to require that the reasons
for our conclusion be stated with fulness, especially b&cause
inadvertent language in some previous cases is interpreted as
announcing different views from those now expressed.
.The motion to modify the order of r'eversal heretofore made
is denied.

