THOM TSON v. HUBBARD.
Syllabus.

does not contract to make an assessment, nor does it make
the payment of any sum contingent on an assessment, or on
the collection of an assessment. It agrees to pay a principal sum represented by the payment of two dollars for
each member in division AA, within sixty days after proof
of death. The association always knows the number of members which is to be multiplied by two. It has sixty days
in which to make the assessment and collect what it can,
before making any payment, but it takes the risk as to
those who do not pay in time or at all. The liability to
assessment is all that concerns the beneficiary, not the making
or collection of an assessment; and the liability to assessment
only measures the amount to be paid under the policy.
In view of the amendment made to the complaint at the
trial which was not excepted to, and of the testimony of the
secretary of the defendant, the charge of the court on the subject of an assessment was proper, and so was the verdict.
In the cases cited by the defendant either the policy was
different from the present one, in providing only for levying
an assessment and paying the amount collected, or there was
no proof of the assessable number of members.
We see no error in anything excepted to by the defendant,
Affirmed.
and the judgment is

THOMPSON v. HUBBARD.

HUBBARD v. THOMPSON.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MSSOURL

Nos. 265, 271. Submitted April 17,1889. - Decided May 13,1889.
In this case, it was held, on the facts, that the title to a copyright in a book
had passed from the person who secured it to another person, as the result of a completed transaction between them, independently of all agreements in regard to other matters, the consideration for the sale having
been paid, and the contract having never been rescinded.
The grantee, having sued the grantor for infringing the copyright, it ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.
peared that although the copyright had been properly secured by the
grantor, the grantee, in publishing editions of the book, had, in some of
the copies, not printed, in the notice of copyright, either the year or the
name, and in others, had omitted the name; Held, that he had forfeited
the right to sue the grantor for infringement.
The requirement of the statute in regard to printing the prescribed notice
of copyright in the book, is one of the conditions precedent to the
perfection of the copyright, the other two being the deposit, before
publication, of the printed copy of the title, and the depositing in the
public office, within the prescribed time after publication, of copies of
the book.
Such requirement in regard to printing the notice extends to editions published by the grantee of a copyright, during his ownership thereof.
The failure of the grantee to print the notice prevents his right of action,
even as against his grantor, who originally secured the copyright, from
coming into existence.

THsEm were cross-appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri. On
the 28th of November, 1882, Alfred H. Hubbard, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, carrying on business at Philadelphia under the
name of Hubbard Bros., filed his bill of complaint in that
court against NIathan D. Thompson, a citizen of Missouri,
carrying on business at St. Louis under the name of N. D.
Thompson & Co. This bill alleged that in 1880 Thompson
was the proprietor of a certain book entitled "Illustrated
Stock Doctor and Live Stock Encyclopedia, including Horses,
Cattle, Swine and Poultry, with all the facts concerning the
various breeds and their characteristics, Breaking, Training,
Sheltering, Buying, Selling, profitable use and general'care;
embracing all the diseases to which they are subject-the
causes, how to know and what to do; given in plain, simple
language, free from technicalities, but scientifically correct,
and with directions that are easily understood, easily applied,
and remedies that are within the reach of the people; giving
the most recent, approved and humane methods for the preservation and care of stock, the prevention of disease and
restoration of health. Designed for the farmer and stockowner, by J. Russell M anning, M. D., V. S., with 400 illustrations. Saint Louis, ]Mo., N. D. Thompson & Co., Publishers,
520, 522, and 524 Pine Street, 1880;" that the book was a

THO2I SON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

compilation, the manuscript of which was owned by. Thompson; that Thompson entered it for copyright, in accordance
with the provisions of the statute; that he deposited a titlepage of it in the office of the librarian of Congress, on the
27th of March, 1880, and before its publication; that thereafter, having published the book, he, on the Tth of June, 1880,
deposited two copies of it in the office of the librarian of
CongTess, and printed in every copy of it, on the page next
after the title-page, a notice of copyright, as prescribed by
statute, and thereby became the owner of the copyright;
that, on the 30th of March, 1880, Thompson entered into an
agreement in writing with Hubbard Bros., a firm composed
of Hubbard and one Ayer, carrying on business in Philadelphia, a copy of which instrument, marked Exhibit A was
annexed to the bill and is set forth in the margin,' and which
I MEM.roRA.Du.M

or AGREMENT.

N. D. Thompson agrees to sell, and does hereby sell, to H. Bros. the entire plates (not less than one thousand pages) of a new book entitled Manning's Illustrated Stock Doctor and Live Stock Encyclopedia, for the sum
of $4000, including copyright, the originals of the illustrations, all the
stamps for binding the book, and circular plates, and deliver same as soon
as first edition now printing is off press, shipping same to Philadelphia, and
delivering same well boxed to the depot in St. Louis, free of charge for
boxing or drayage. He agrees further to pay for all books manufactured
from said plates, upon his order, with his exclusive imprint and copyright,
cash within sixty days, and to order hot less than five hundred at a time,
and to order in time to admit of their being bound after receipt by Hubbard Bros. of the order.
He agrees to pay for all books he orders made from said plates, a net
price which shall be ten per cent in advance of cost to H. Bros., of their
manufacture, and also the further cost of boxing and drayage.
He further agrees to confine his sales to the following territory: the
States of Mo., Ark., Indian Territory, La., Texas, Miss., So. Ill., Kentucky
and Tenn., west of Tenn. River.
He further agrees, for the period of two years, to publish no books
except those he now has in course of publication, viz.: Texas History,
Almanac and the Tice Almanac, and to devote his energies largely for the
above period to the vigorous prosecution of the sale of the publications
(Books and Bibles) of Hubbard Bros., and theirs exclusively, including
bibles, aside from his own as named, paying for the same within sixty days
of date of bills at the rate of 65 per cent off from retail prices, and for all
cirs. pros. books, posters, &c., at cost.

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

was duly recorded in the office of the librarian of Congress;
that thereafter, and on -May 28, 1880, Thompson rendered to
Hubbard Bros. a further instrument in writing, in the form
of a bill of sale for the book, a copy of which was annexed to
the bill and marked B, and was duly recorded in the office of
the librarian of Congress, and was as follows:
"ST. Louis, 2fay 3d, 1880.
"Messrs. Hubbard Bros., Philadelphia, Pa., bought of
N. D. Thompson & Co.
"To complete set electrot. plates, stock book, copyright, originals of illustrations, and stamps for
binding same.....
.............
.. 4000 00
"Credit by amount deducted from bills in April.
500 00
"$3500 00;"
In consideration of the fulfilment [of the] foregoing covenants and
agreements, Hubbard Bros. agree to purchase and do hereby purchase the
plates of Manning's Stock Doctor, &c., as before described, paying for
same $500 offset present ac.; $1000 by note at 8 mos. ;" $1000 note at 12
mos. ; $1000 by note at 18 mos.; $500 by note at 24 mos. Notes bearing
interest at 6 per cent per annum. They further agree to supply N. D.
Thompson all he may order of books from said plates in 500 lots, with his
exclusive imprint and copyright mark, at ten per cent advance on actual
cost of manufacture, also cost of boxing and drayage, on 60 days by N. D.
Thompson.
They further agree to supply N. D. Thompson their other books and
bibles made for sale through and supplied to their branches, at a discount
of 65 per cent from the retail prices of the same, granting him the exclusive right of sale of close books in Mo., (excepting six counties adjacent to
Kansas City,) Ark., Texas, La., that part of Ky. and Tenn. lying west of
the Tennessee River and So. Ill.
It is mutually agreed that each party to this contract shall be responsible to the other in the amt. of 51.00 per copy for each copy of exclusive or
close books sold in the other's territory by the general agents or canvassing
agents of the opposite party, and further, that all applications for agency
of close or exclusive books outside the field of either shall be referred to
the party having exclusive right of sale, and a charge of 60c. made for each
application so referred. It is further agreed that, should N. D. Thompson
go out of business, or for any reason cease to prosecute the sale of Manning's Stock Doctor, &c., then the right of sale in his exclusive field shall
revert to Hubbard Bros. unless his successor shall prosecute the sale in like

THOMPSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

that Hubbard Bros. paid Thompson in full for said book,
p]ates, copyright, illustrations, and stamps, the consideration
mentioned in said bill of sale, and thereby became the sole
owners of said book and of the copyright therein, and thereupon employed many persons in the United States and Canada
to sell the book by subscription, giving to them the exclusive
right to sell the book within the geographical limits assigned
to them respectively, and employed Thompson, among others,
as one of their agents to sell the book in a large and valuable
territory, within which he had the exclusive privilege of selling
the book by subscription, and for that purpose of employing
others to assist him; that Hubbard Bros. added to the book,
and enlarged and improved it, and caused to be printed and
bound a large number of copies, each copy having printed
therein a notice of copyright, and expended large sums of
money in doing so and in advertising the book in newspapers
and by means of circulars and prospectuses; that, in June,
1881, Hubbard became, by purchase from Ayer, the sole proprietor of the book and the copyright of it; that Thompson
in 1881 and 1882, with full knowledge of the premises, compiled, printed, published and sold, and was continuing to sell
and offer for sale, a book entitled "The American Farmers'
Pictorial Cyclopedia of Live Stock, embracing Horses, Cattle,
Swine, Sheep and Poultry, including departments on Dogs and
Bees; being also a complete Stock Doctor; combining the
effective method of object-teaching with written instruction.
Giving all the facts concerning the various breeds; characteristics and excellences of each; best methods of breeding, training, sheltering, stable management and general care; with
specific directions how to buy and how to sell, including careful and illustrated analysis of the points of domestic animals,
manner as he would have done; the field on stock book to be the same as
on H. Bros.' books, except the six counties in Missouri adjacent to Kansas

City.
HUBBARD BROS.
N. D. THO:%iPSOx.
Plates to be made collateral security for payment of notes.
H. BROS.

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

with all the diseases to which they are subject, how to know
them, the causes, prevention, and cure, given in plain, simple
language, free from technicalities, but scientifically correct,
and prescribing remedies readily obtained and easily applied.
Designed for the successful and profitable use of the American
Farmer and Stock Owner. By Hon. Jonathan Periam, editor
'American Encyclopedia of Agriculture;' editor 'Prairie
Farmer;' former editor 'Western Rural;' Member Illinois
Department of Agriculture; first Superintendent of Agricultural Illinois Industrial University; Life Member American
Pomological Society; author ' History Farmers' Movement;'
'Lessons for Life,' etc. etc.; and A. H. Baker, V. S. Veterinary Editor 'American Field;' Veterinary Surgeon Illinois
Humane Society; Medalist of the Montreal Veterinary College; XMember of the M ontreal Veterinary Medical Association, etc. etc. With over 700 appropriate engravings. Saint
Louis, Mo.: N. D. Thompson & Co. Publishers, 520, 522, and
52-4 Pine Street. 1882;" and that such book was an infringement on the Manning book, its materials being copied in great
part therefrom, the combination and arrangement of them in
the two books being similar in all material respects.
The bill prayed for an injunction, both preliminary and perpetual, to restrain Thompson from printing, publishing and
selling, or offering for sale, any copies of the Periam and
Baker book, and for an account of those published and sold,
and for the payment of the damages suffered by Hubbard, and
for general relief.
An application for a preliminary injunction was denied by
the court, but it required Thompson to give a bond*in 85000,
to answer any damages that might be adjudged against him,
and to keep an account of the books in question which he had
sold or should sell.
On the 5th of February, 1883, Thompson filed an answer to
the bill, in which he admitted that he was the owner of the
manuscript of the Manning book, and obtained the copyright
therefor. It alleged that said Exhibit A was not recorded in
the office of the librarian of Congress until August 23, 1882;
that, before March 30, 1880, Hubbard Bros., composed of

THOMPSONT v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

Hubbard and Ayer, entered into negotiations with Thompson
to purchase from him the Manning book, including the copyright thereof, which was thereafter to be obtained, the originals of cuts, stamps for binding and plates for circulars; that,
on the 30th of March, 1880, Thompson met Hubbard at the
Union Depot in St. Louis, and there, and on the railroad train
while passing, on that day, from St. Louis to East St. Louis,
Thompson verbally agreed with Hubbard, for Hubbard Bros.,
on the basis for the future sale of said book, copyright, originals of cuts, plates and stamps; that such agreement for the
sale, thereafter to be made, was on the terms that Thompson
would sell to Hubbard Bros. the plates necessary for printing
the books, including the copyright, originals of cuts, and
stamps for binding, Thompson to have the right first to publish an edition of 2000 copies of the book, and then to deliver
the plates, cuts and stamps, properly packed for shipping, at
the Union Depot in St. Louis, and, in consideration thereof,
Hubbard Bros. were to pay to Thompson $4000, and also to
manufacture said book for him and deliver the same to him in
St. Louis, at a less cost than that for which he was then manufacturing the book, agreeing to manufacture and deliver it to
him in St. Louis for a less price than $1.10 per copy, and that
the book so to be manufactured for and delivered to Thompson should in each copy contain the name of "N. D. Thompson & Co., publishers, St. Louis, Missouri," exclusive of the
name of any other publisher, and should contain, on the proper
page, the exclusive copyright notice of N. D. Thompson &
Co., in accordance with the act of Congress; that Thompson
would order delivery of the books in lots of 500 copies, Hubbard Bros. to have a reasonable time after the receipt of the
order in which to have the books bound; that the books should
be furnished to Thompson at a net price of 10 per cent in
advance of the actual cost of'manufacture, including boxing
and drayage, and that Thompson should have the exclusive
right to sell the book within the bounds of the following territory, namely, the States of Missouri, Arkansas, Indian Territory, Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, and that portion of Iowa
bounded on the north by the third tier of counties from the
vOL. cxxx-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Missouri line, and that part of Illinois, not including, but south
of Rock Island and Will counties, constituting about three
fqurths of the State of Illinois, and also in that portion of
Kentucky and Tennessee bounded on the east by the Louisville
and :Nashville and the Nashville and Chattanooga railroads,
and also a portion of the State of Indiana; that Thompson,
having agents and canvassers engaged in selling the book on
subscription for future delivery, in Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan,
Illinois and Ohio, at places and covering territory not included
in that before mentioned, should continue to sell the book by
such agents and canvassers then in his employ, in such territory then occupied by them; that Hubbard Bros. also agreed
with Thompson that they would sell and furnish to him all
other books and publications manufactured or issued for sale
by them, through their house or branch offices, at a discount
of 65 per cent off from the retail price of the same, and that
he should have the exclusive right to sell said books and publications of Hubbard Bros. in Missouri, (excepting the six counties adjacent to Kansas City,) and also in Arkansas, Texas,
Louisiana, that part of Kentucky and Tennessee lying west of
the Tennessee River, and the southern half of Illinois; that
Hubbard Bros. would supply to him all cir~ulars, prospectus
books, and posters necessary and usual in prosecuting the sale
of said books, at the cost price thereof, payment to be made
for the same, and for said publications of Hubbard Bros., by
Thompson, within sixty days from the date of sale; that a
contract and agreement should be written in proper form, and
executed by Thompson and Hubbard Bros., in accordance with
and on the considerations aforesaid, and that in such contract
Thompson would agree, for two years from its execution, to
publish no books other than such as he then had in course of
1piblication, and devote his attention largely to the sale of such
publications of Hubbard Bros., to be so purchased from them,
and to push the sale thereof exclusively, except as to publications of Thompson; that each party to the contract so to be
entered into would pay to the other $1 per copy for each
copy of the Manning book sold by either in any of the territory to be .so reserved and exclusively set apart for the other;

THOILPSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

that all applications for agencies for the sale of any of the
said books, coming to one of the parties from territory reserved
exclusively for the other, should be by such party referred to
the other; that the party to whom such application should
be referred would pay to the other 50 cents for every such
application; that, if Thompson should go out of business or
cease to prosecute the sale of the Manning book, then, unless
the successor of Thompson would continue the same, Hubbard
Bros. should have the exclusive right to sell said book; and
that, on the execution of such contract, Thompson would
assign the copyright to Hubbard Bros., and they would execute
a m6rtgage to him on such plates, cuts and stamps, to secure
to him the performance of the contract.
The answer further alleged that the $4000 so to be paid by
Hubbard constituted only a small portion of the consideration
of the contract to be made; that the plates, cuts and stamps
were of greater value than $10,000 ; that Hubbard, falsely
pretending to have made a memorandum in writing, with pencil, on paper, containing an outline of the terms and considerations of the contract thereafter to be entered into, a copy of
which memorandum written by Hubbard is Exhibit A to the
bill, represented to Thompson that such memorandum was
incomplete, but contained the outlines of the contract thereafter to be made in accordance with such full understanding
of the parties, and promised that he would prepare a contract
in proper form, in writing, and elaborate the same in accordance with such considerations, and that Hubbard Bros. would
execute it; that thus, by fraud and deceit, Hubbard persuaded
Thompson to sign, with a pencil, such memorandum, Thompson at the time believing and relying on such false promises
and representations of Hubbard; and that such memorandum
was not agreed upon as, or understood or intended to be, the
contract to be entered into by Thompson and Hubbard Bros.,
nor was it understood as, or intended to be, an assignment of
the copyright of the book.
The answer further averred that Thompson, believing that
Hubbard Bros. would in good faith execute the contract as
agreed to be made and carry out the same in accordance with

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

the terms so agreed upon, shipped and delivered to Hubbard
Bros. the plates, cuts and stamps necessary for the manufacture of the book, and, at the request of Hubbard or of Hubbard Bros., forwarded to them the paper marked Exhibit B
to the bill, which was intended to be only a statement of the
acgount of a part of the consideration to be rendered by Hubbard Bros., namely, $4000 which was to be paid in money;
that Hubbard Bros. thereafter refused to carry out any part
of the contract as agreed upon, and had refused to furnish
Thompson with copies of the Manning book at the price
agreed upon, or at any price less than the usual and regular
wholesale price thereof, and had refused to manufacture for,
or deliver to, Thompson any copy of said .book, containing
the copyright notice of him or of N. D. Thompson & Co., in
accordance with the statute, and, having published editions of
the book, had sold it in the territory exclusively to be reserved
and set apart to Thompson; that Hubbard thereupon declared
that there was no agreement or contract in existence between
Hubbard Bros. and Thompson, and Thompson assented thereto; that thereby said agreement for said contract, and the
terms of said contract, were by mutual consent rescinded; and
that Hubbard Bros. did not, in each or any copy of the book,
have printed any legal notice of copyright. The answer denied
that the defendant, by publishing and selling the Periam and
Baker'book, has infringed any copyright belonging to Hubbard
in the M anning book.
A replication was filed to this answer, on the 23d of February, 1883.
On the 10th of May, 1883, Thompson filed in the same court
his cross-bill against Hubbard, setting forth that, having procured to be compiled the Manning book, and being its owner,
he, on th6 27th of March, 1880, before the manuscript of it
was completed, and before the book was published, deposited
in the mail, addressed to the 'librarian of Congress, at Washington, a printed copy of the title of the book, which was
received by such librarian; and that, having thereafter published the book, he did, within ten days from its publication,
deposit in the mail, addressed to such librarian, at Washington,

THOMTPSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

two complete printed copies thereof, of the best edition issued,
and did print in each copy of said book published by him, on
the page next after the title-page, a notice of copyright, in
accordance with the statute, and so became the owner of the
copyright of the book, and received from said librarian a certificate of the copyright thereof.
The cross-bill contained in substance the same allegations
as are found in Thompson's answer to the original bill, in
regard to the negotiations between the parties and the terms
of the verbal agreement alleged by Thompson to have been
made between them. It alleged that during the conversation
at St. Louis, and while crossing to East St. Louis, each of
the parties had in his hands a written paper, both of which
were produced by Hubbard at the time; that, during the consideration of such writings, Hubbard made or pretended to
make some alterations in the one held by him, which instrument and alterations Thompson did not at the time examine
or read; that neither of the writings was at the time altered
to correspond with the verbal agreement, and the two writings
were not at the time compared, and the alterations so made in
the one held by Hubbard were not made in the one held by
Thompson; that afterwards Hubbard proposed to insert, and
did insert, in said writings the clause, "Plates to be made collateral security for payment of notes;;" that that clause was
not in accordance with the agreement then and there made,
it having been agreed that the plates should be collateral security for the performance of the verbal agreement; that afterwards, and when the train was about to leave East St. Louis,
where Thompson was to leave it and return to St. Louis, Hubbard, representing to Thompson that the writings were incomplete, but that they contained the outlines of the contract
thereafter to be made, and promising that he would prepare
in'proper form, in writing, a contract, and elaborate it in
accordance with the verbal agreement and the considerations
before set forth, and that Hubbard Bros. would execute it,
and representing and promising that the said writings would
be used only as a guide and outline, from which the real agreement would be drawn and framed in accordance with the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

understanding of the parties as so set forth, persuaded Thompson to sign, with a pencil, the writing attached to the original
bill as Exhibit A; that, immediately on the return of Hubbard to Philadelphia, Hubbard Bros. caused their agents to
be instructed to observe the boundary lines of the territory
reserved to Thompson in said verbal agreement, as territory
which had been reserved exclusively to Thompson thereby;
that Thompson did not at the time see or know that the following clause in the writings was contained therein, namely, "The
field on stock book to be the same as on H. Bros.' books except
the six Co.'s, in No. adjacent to Kansas City," and did not
discover the same until a day or two after he had signed the
memorandum; that that clause was inserted by Hubbard without the knowledge and consent of Thompson, and Thompson
never agreed or intended to agree to the same; that immediately after he discovered that clause in the writing retained
by him, a copy of which writing is contained in the margin,'
'MEMORA0IUDU3I

OF AGitnr~xT~.

N. D. T. agrees to sell H. Bros. the plates (1000 p.) of Manning's Stock
Dr., etc., including copyright, the originals of cuts, stamps for binding and
circular plates, for $4000, and deliver same soon as first edition now printing is off press, well boxed, at depot in St. Louis, free of charge for boxing and drayage.
He agrees further to pay for all books manufactured from said plates
upon his order (with his exclusive imprint and copyright mark); to order
not less than 500 at a time, and sixty days, and in time to admit of their
being bound, after receipt by Hubbard Bros. of his order. He agrees to
pay for all books he orders made from said plates, a net price of ten per
cent in advance of cost of manufacture, including boxing and drayagea
He further agrees to confine his sales to the following territory, viz: the
States of Missouri, Arkansas, Indian Territory, Louisiana, Texas, Mississippi, Southern Illinois, one third of each Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee.
He further agrees, for the period of two years, to publish no books,
except those he now has in course of publication, viz.: Texas History,
Almanac, and the Tice Almanac, and to devote his energies largely for the
above period to the vigorous prosecution of the sale of the publications
(books and bibles) of Hubbard Bros., and to theirs exclusively (including
bibles), (aside from his own, as named), paying for the same within sixty
days of date of bills, at the rate of sixty-five per cent off from the retail
prices, and for all circulars, prospectus books, posters, etc., at cost.
In consideration of the fulfilment of the foregoing covenants and agree-

THOiPSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

he and Hubbard Bros. had a correspondence in relation to the
territory to be reserved to him, in which he insisted upon the
territory described in such verbal agreement, as that agreed
upon between Hubbard Bros. and himself to be reserved to
him, except as afterwards mentioned in the cross-bill; that, on
the 13th of April, 1880, he proposed, by way of concession to
Hubbard Bros., that instead of the territory agreed to be
reserved by the verbal agreement, the territory to be reserved
by the contract to be made should be as follows: The two
southern tiers of counties in Iowa, instead of three, as in said
verbal agreement provided as aforesaid; Illinois, south of and
including the counties of Henry, Bureau, LaSalle, Grundy and
Kankakee; none in Indiana, instead of a third of it; the
boundary line in Kentucky to be the Louisville and lNashville
ments, H. Bros. agree to purchase and do hereby purchase the plates of
Mf'g. Stock Dr., etc., as before described, paying for the same as follows,
viz.: $500 in present stock accounts unsettled, and $500 24 months; $1000
by note at 8 months; $1000 by note at 12 months; $1000 by note at 18
months, notes bearing interest at 6 per cent per annum.
They further agree to supply N. D. T. all he may order of books from
said plates in 500 lots, with his exclusive imprint and copyright mark, at 10
per cent advance on actual cost of manufacture, (said cost to include boxing and drayage,) and for cash on receipt of goods by N. D. T.
They further agree to supply N. D. T. such of their other publications,
(books and bibles, as are issued for sale through their home and branch
offices,) at a discount of 65 per cent off the retail price of the same, granting him the exclusive right of sale of close books in Mo., (excepting six
counties adjacent to Kansas City,) Ark., Texas, La., that part of Ky. and
Tenn. lying west of the Tenn. River, and So. Ill.
It is mutually agreed, that each party to this contract shall be responsible to the other in the amount of $1 per copy for any close or exclusive
books sold upon the territory of the other, and that all applications for
agency coming from without the field of either shall be referred to the
party having right of sale, and a charge of 50 cents made for each application so referred.
It is further agreed, that should N. D. T. go out of business, or for any
reason cease to prosecute the sale of Manning's Stock Dr., then the right of
sale in his exclusive field shall belong to H. Bros., unless his successor shall
prosecute the sale in like manner.
The field on Stock Book to be same as on H. Bros.' book, except as to six
Co.'s adjacent to Kansas City. Plates to be made collateral security for
payment of notes.
HlvAu
Bnos,

OCTOBER. TERM, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

Railroad, and, in Tennessee, the Nashville and Montgomery
Railroad; none of Alabama., instead of half of it, as in said
verbal agreement provided; and the whole of Missouri, Arkansas, Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi, and of the Indian Territory; and that Thompson should have the right to work out
agencies made outside the field thus reserved prior to the acceptance by Hubbard Bros. of the proposal last aforesaid; that
Hubbard Bros. on the 16th of April, 1880, declined such proposition, and made a counter proposition to Thompson which
he, on the 20th of April, 1880, declined to accept; that
Thompson then proposed that if the Iowa and Illinois territory, which he reserved in such proposition, should be conceded to him, he would agree to the proposition of Hubbard
Bros. to make the territory to be reserved to him in Kentucky
and Tennessee all that lying west of the Tennessee River, the
other territory to be the same as in his said proposition; that
Hubbard Bros. on the 20th of April, 1880, proposed to accept
the proposition last aforesaid of Thompson if Thompson would
relinquish the outside agencies, meaning those agencies not
within the territory reserved and to be reserved to Thompson
under his two propositions last aforesaid; that Thompson
refused to relinquish said outside agencies at once, but, on the
20th of April, 1880, proposed so to do by the 15th of July
following, provided Hubbard Bros. would accept his proposition of the 13th of April, 1880, as modified by his subsequent
propositions aforesaid; that afterwards, and on the 2.0th of
April, 1880, and on the 24th of April, 1880, Hubbard Bros.
accepted the last aforesaid proposition of Thompson, and any
agreement then existing between Hubbard Bros. and Thompson, if not originally such as Thompson had averred, was
modified in accordance with said propositions and the acceptance thereof; that, between the 4th and 28th of May, 1880,
Thompson shipped and caused to be delivered to Hubbard
Bros. the plates, cuts, and stamps, necessary for the manufacture of the ]lanning book; that on the 26th of May, 1880,
Hubbard Bros. requested Thompson to send them a bill specifying the electrotype plates, copyright, original wood engraving, electrotypes of illustrations, and stamps for binding; that,

THO2NSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

on the 28th of -May, 1'880, he forwarded to them the written
paper marked Exhibit B to the original bill; that, on June 1,
1880, Hubbard Bros. sent to him notes for the $3500 of the
money part of the consideration, having theretofore allowed
him $500 on current account; that, on the 22d of July, 1880,
Hubbard Bros. sent to him a draft in writing of a contract prepared in more regular form, a copy of which was annexed to
the cross-bill, and which, it is alleged, was materially different
from either of the said purported memoranda of agreement,
and from the said verbal agreement; that Thompson did not
execute that draft; that, on the 2d of August, 1880, he prepared a draft of a contract, the provisions of which were substantially the same as those of the verbal agreement as so
modified, except that he made in it certain alterations, by way
of concessions in favor of Hubbard Bros.; that he sent it to
Hubbard Bros., but they refused to execute it; and that afterwards there was further dispute over the territory to be reserved, and on other points.&The cross-bill further alleged the bringing and pendency of
the original bill, and stated its contents and the proceedings
which had taken place in the court in the original suit, and alleged that Thompson was still the owner of the Manning book
and the copyright thereof; and that Hubbard, ever since he
obtained possession of said property, had been and then was
publishing and selling the book without any legal copyright
notice therein, in the field which was to have been reserved
exclusively to Thompson, and thus had been and was then
infringing the copyright of Thompson in the Manning book,
and threatened to continue to do so.
The cross-bill tendered to Hubbard the sum of $4000 so paid
by Hubbard Bros. to Thompson, with interest at the rate of
6 per cent per annum from the time it was paid, upon the
condition that Hubbard Bros. should surrender to Thompson
the plates, cuts and stamps for the Manning book, and such
other and further or different conditions as the court might
order, and prayed for a perpetual injunction to restrain Hubbard from publishing, selling, or offering for sale, any copies
of the Manning book, and for an account of all copies of it

138

'

OCTOBER TERMI, 1888.
Statement of the Case.

published or sold, or to be published or sold by Hubbard, and
for the payment to Thompson by Hubbard of all damage for
an unlawful publication by Hubbard of the Manning book,
and for a decree that Hubbard deliver back the plates, cuts
and stamps, on such conditions as the court might order.
On the 19th of October, 1883, Hubbard filed an 'answer to
the cross-bill, reaffirming the matter set forth in his original
bill, and averring that all communications in reference to the
delivery of things purchased and payment therefor, between
Thompson and Hubbard, were in writing; that the efforts
made between the parties to agree upon a more perfect draft
of the agreement of March 30, 1880, failed, and therefore both
parties to it fell back upon its provisions; that the covenants
of that agreement, in reference to the sale of the Manning
book and its purchase by Hubbard, were fully complied with,
and the terms and conditions of the sale were never called in
question or made matter of dispute, until after Thompson had
completed and published his infringing book; that the covenants in that agreement with reference to the mode of doing
business between Hubbard and Thompson were subsequently
modified by correspondence, so that Thompson was enabled
to'order books in less quantities than 500 copies at a time, and
on shorter notice than had been provided in the agreement
of March 30, 1880; that, in consideration of such variance,
Thompson agreed that the books furnished to him in smaller
quantities and on shorter notice should be charged at the rate
of 65 per cent off the retail price; that there was some correspondence on the question of territory, and also in reference to
the covenants in the agreement of March 30, 1880, by which
Thompson agreed, for the period of two years from that date,
to publish no other book or books than those mentioned in the
agreement, and to devote his energies largely, for the period
of two years, to the vigorous prosecution of the sale of Hubbard Bros.' publications, and to them exclusively; that, it was
agreed by both parties, in that correspondence, that the adjustment of such matters in dispute should be made the subject
of a personal conference between the parties, at the time of a
proposed visit of Thompson to Philadelphia, and it was also

THOM[PSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

agreed that at such conference the matter of the price at
which Hubbard would agree to furnish the Manning books
to Thompson in smaller quantities and at shorter notice than
was provided in the agreement, should be settled finally; that
it was agreed between Thompson and Hubbard that the contract between them was that the price to be paid by Hubbard
for "complete electrotype plates, Stock Book, copyright, originals of illustrations, and stamps for binding" was $4000 ; that
the considerations for the covenant on the part of Thompson,
that he would for two years publish no books except "Texas
History, Almanac, and the Tice Almanac," and would devote
his energies largely for two years to the vigorous prosecution
of the sale of Hubbard's books exclusively, paying for the
same within sixty days from date, all bills at the rate of 65
per cent off from retail prices, and for all circulars, prospectuses, posters, etc., at cost, were the granting of the exclusive
right of sale of Hubbard's "close" books within the territory
mentioned, and the agreement to furnish the Manning books
in lots of 500 at an advance of 10 per cent on actual cost of
manufacture, upon the further terms and conditions contained
in the agreement of March 30, 1880; that, after Thompson
had completed the delivery of the electrotype plates, illustrations, stamps, etc., and Hubbard had given to Thompson his
promissory notes, the sale of the Manning book to Hubbard
was complete, and the agreement providing for the sale and
mode of payment was of no further legal effect than as an
instrument in writing conveying the copyright, and the covenants providing for the regulation of the business of the publication and sale of books between the parties, which were
executory and were to continue for the period of two years,
remained in force, subject to modifications from time to time
made and agreed to by the parties; that, notwithstanding the
failure of Thompson to order books in accordance with the
terms of the contract, Hubbard filled all orders for books
made on him by Thompson, imposing the condition, nevertheless, that, until Thompson would bring himself under the
terms of the contract of March 30, 1880, Hubbard would
charge the Manning books to Thompson at 65 per cent off

OCTOBER TER ,I 1888.
Statement of the Case.

from the retail price, upon condition, however, that if Thompson would subsequently, upon his promised visit to Philadelphia, put himself upon the covenants of said contract, and
show a willingness to perform them, Hubbard would abate
the price at which the books were charged; that Thompson
assented to such a course of dealing; that it was not true that
the correspondence between the parties had reference to the
contract of sale of the Manning books, plates, cuts, stamps,
and copyright; that such contract of sale was not at any time
spoken of as annulled, withdrawn, or rescinded, and no words
were used in reference thereto which could be considered by
Thompson to be a rescission, or an implied rescission, or an
intended rescission of the contract; that Thompson and Hubbard at all times considered the sale of the Manning book,
including plates, cuts, copyright, etc., and the payment therefor, as complete, when the promissory notes were forwarded
to Thompson by Hubbard; and that such sale was treated as
conclusive, complete, and absolute, by Thompson and Hubbard, until after Thompson had published the Periam and
Baker book, and it .was only then that Thompson began to
dispute the title of Hubbard in the Manning book and the
copyright thereof.
A replication was filed to the answer to the cross-bill, proofs
were taken on both sides, and it was stipulated between the
parties that all proof taken in either suit might be used in
both.
The case was brought to a hearing before Judge Treat, the
district judge, and on the 8th of July, 1885, he made a decision, holding, that if the copyright of the Manning. book had
been transferred to Hubbafd, the Periam and Baker book was
an infringement of it, but ordering a re-argument before the
circuit judge (Judge Brewer) and himself, on three questions:
(1) Whether Thompson assigned the copyright of the Manning
book to Hubbard, so that Hubbard could pursue him for an
infringement; (2) whether, if such assignment was made, it
was rescinded; (3) whether, inasmuch as the imprint of Hubbard's publication did not conform to the terms of the statute,
he could maintain an action against Thompson for an infringe-

THOMrPSON v. HUBBARD.
Statement of the Case.

ment, although Thompson knew that the copyright had been
granted.
The case was heard before the two judges, and was decided
in an opinion given by Judge Brewer, and reported in 25 Fed.
IRep. 188. The view of the court was, that the testimony left
the matter much in doubt, whether the paper signed on March
30, 1880, was understood by the parties to be a definite and
closed contract, "or a mere preliminary statement- a memorandum of matters upon which they had agreed, and which,
with all unsettled details, were thereafter to be put into the
form of a complete contract in writing and then signed and
executed." The conclusion of both judges was stated to be,
that there was not in the testimony that which enabled the
court to say that the parties, in respect to all the items of the
proposed agreement between them, ever came to a definite
understanding; that there were still some matters unsettled
and undetermined, so that a contract, as it was a single contract and understood to be a single contract, could not be said
to have been finally and definitely consummated; that the
cross-bill ought to be sustained so far as concerned the tender
- that is, the plates ought to be returned to Thompson upon
the payment by him to Hubbard of the $4000 and interest,
but that, so far as any claim by Thompson for an accounting
and damages was concerned, the course of dealing between the
parties had been such that equitably Thompson was not entitled to any such accounting.
On the 27th of October, 1885, a decree was made, entitled
in both suits, adjudging that no assignment or sale of the
copyright of the Manning book, or of the electrotype plates,
originals of illustrations, and stamps for binding, was ever
made by Thompson to Hubbard, by virtue of the instruments
of writing and acts mentioned and described in the original
bill, and that Hubbard neither acquired nor had any title to
or ownership in the copyright of said book under sald instruments and acts, or any of them, and dismissing the original
bill; and it was decreed under the cross-bill, that Thompson
was and always had been the owner of the copyright, electrotype plates, originals of illustrations, and tamps for binding,

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Citations for Appellee.

of the Manning book, and that Hubbard, on the tender to
him of 84000 with interest from May 15, 1880, to the date of
the tender, should, on demand, surrender and deliver back to
Thompson the electrotype plates, originals of illustrations, and
stamps for binding, pertaining to said book and received by
him from Thompson; that, if such tender should not be
accepted, then said sum and interest should be paid into the
registry of the court, to abide its further order; that Thompson was not equitably entitled to an accounting and damages;
and that each party should pay his own costs. From this
decree each party appealed to this court.
2Mr. J. B. Henderson, for Thompson, cited: (1) As to the
character and rescission of the contract: Bruce v. Pearson,3
Johns. 534; Innis v. Roane, 4 Call, (7a.) 379; Hazard v.
-New England Ins. Co., 1 Sumner, 218; Dodge v. Hopkins,
14 Wisconsin, 630; Green v. lFells, 2 California, 584; Bacoce
v. Huntington, 9 Alabama, 869; Jennings v. Gage, 13 Illinois,
610; S. C. 56 Am. Dec. 476; Tisdale v. Buckmore, 33 Maine,
461; Cooke v. Bucks, 34 Mississippi, 105; Evans v. Gale, 17
N. H. 573; S. C. 43 Am. Dec. 614; Harrisv. Bradley, 9 Indiana, 166; Smethurst v. Woolston, 5 W. & S. 106; Lucy v.
Bundy, 9 N. H. 298; Allen v. Ifebb, 24 N. H. 278; Preble v.
Bottom, 27 Vermont, 249; Tfrright v. Haskell, 45 Maine, 489;
Young v. Wakefield, 121 Mass. 91; Steam Packet Co. v.
Sickles, 10 How. 419; Bank of Columbia . Hagner, 1 Pet.
455. (2) As to the notice of the copyright by Thompson:
Burrow-Giles Lithographio Company. v. Sarony, 111 U. S.
53; Jollie v. Jaques, 1 Blatchford, 618; Baker v. Taylor, 2
Blatchford, 82; Parkinson v. Laselle, 3 Sawyer, 330; Bouoicault v. ilart,13 Blatchford, 47; Ewer v. Coxe, 4 Wash. 0. 0.
487; Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788; TFheaton v.
Peters, 8 Pet: 59; Callaghan v. Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 652;
Mlerrell v Tice, 104 U. S. 557; Struve v. Sehwedler, 4 Blatchford, 23 ; Banks v. -Manchester,128 U. S. 244.
M1r. J. P. Sypher, -M,. S. X. Breckinridge and Mrh. John
G. Johnson,for Hubbard, cited. (1) As to the contract: Laer

THOMPSON v. HUIBBAlRD.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Dennett, 109 U. S. 90; Hartshorn v. Day, 19 How. 211;
.Nash v. Towne, 5 Wall. 689; Slater v. Emerson, 19 How. 224;
Brawley v. United States, 96 U. S. 168; Chicago v. Sheldon,
9 Wall. 50; Farmers'Bank v. Groves, 12 How. 5; Warren v.
Leland, 2 Barb. 613; .Malloryv. Mackaye, 12 Fed. Rep. 328;
Pulte v. Derby, 5 McLean, 328; Smoot's Case, 15 Wall: 36;
Preston v. Luck, 27 Oh. D. 497; .Kennedy v. Lee, 3 Meriv.
440; Darlington Iron Co. v. Foote, 16 Fed. Rep. 646; Bean
v. Clark, 30 Fed. Rep. 225; Theeler v. -Yew Brunswick Bailroad Co., 115 U. S. 29. (2) As to the copyright: Wheaton v.
Peters, 8 Pet. 591; Parkinson v. Laselle, 3 Sawyer, 330;
Baker v. Taylor, 2 Blatchford, 82; .3[yers v. Callaghan, 5
Fed. Rep. 726; Story's Executors v. -Holcombe, 4 McLean,
306; Chappelle v. Davidson, 2 Kay & Johns. 123; Bogue v.
Houlston, 5 DeG. &. S. 267; Alexander v. 3fc-enzie, 9
Scotch Sess. Cas. 2d Series, 758; Ernerson v. Davies, 3 Story,
768.
]m. JusTIcE BLATocnolw, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
We are unable to concur in the conclusiQn of the Circuit
Court on the question of the sale by Thompson to Hubbard
of the copyright of the Manning book.
The price of the book and its copyright, including originals
of cuts, circulars, plates and book stamps, having been fixed
by agreement at $4000, the disputed point in the negotiations
of March 30, 1880, was as to the extent of territory to be allowed to Thompson for the sale of the Manning book, he
insisting upon being allowed more territory than was specified
in the draft agreements produced by Hubbard. The two
drafts, one of which was retained by each party, differ practically only as to the amount of territory in which Thompson
was to be allowed to sell the Manning book. The two instruments agree as to the territory in which Thompson was to
have an exclusive right to sell the other publications of
Hubbard.
The two parties differ in their testimony as to what was

OCTOBER TERI\, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

agreed upon in regard to the clause which is substantially the
same in both of the instruments, namely: "The

field on

stock book to be the same as on H. Bros.' books except the six
counties in Missouri adjacent to Kansas City," Hubbard testifying that his copy represented exactly what had been settled
upon, and that the concluding paragraph was added to make
everything certain, "while Thompson testifies that he supposed
the concluding sentence was added to express the understanding about the plates being collateral security for the notes
which were to be given, although the special provision about
the collateral security was inserted in the paper retained by
him, as well .as in that which he signed.
The two papers agree in providing for the sale to Hubbard
of the plates of the Manning book, including copyright,, the
originals of cuts, the stamps for binding, and the plates for
circulars, for $4000, the same to be delivered, well boxed, at
the depot in St. Louis, free of charge for boxing or drayage,
as soon as the first edition, then printing, should be off the
press. They also agree in stating that Thompson should
pay for all books which should be manufactured from the
plates upon his order, with his exclusive imprint and copyright mark, if ordered in lots of not less than 500 at a time,
payable in cash in 60 days, the price to be 10 per cent in advance of the .cost to Hubbard Bros. of their manufacture, and
also the further cost of boxing and drayage.
The two papers also agree in providing that, for the period
of two years, Thompson would publish no books except those
he then had in course of publication, namely, Texas History,
Almanac and the Tice Almanac, and would devote his energies largely for that period to the vigorous prosecution of the
sale of the publications (books and bibles) of Hubbard Bros.,
and theirs exclusively, (including bibles,) aside from his own,
as named, paying for the same within sixty days of date of
bills, at the rate of 65 per cent off from the retail prices, and
for all circulars, prospectus books, posters, etc., at cost.
The two papers also agTee in the time and manner of payment, in cash and in notes, for the plates and copyright.
The two papers also agree in providing that Hubbard Bros.

THOMPSOIN v. HUBBARD.
Opinion of the Court.

should supply Thompson with all books he might order from
such plates in 500 lots, with his exclusive imprint and copyright mark, at 10 per cent advance on the actual cost of
manufacture, also the cost of boxing and drayage, to be paid
in cash on the receipt of the goods by Thompson; and in the
statement that Hubbard Bros. would supply Thompson 'with
their other books and bibles at a discount of 65 per cent from
the retail prices of the same, and that they granted him the
exclusive right of the sale of their "close" books in certain
specified territory; and in stating that each party should be
responsible to the other in the amount of $1 per copy for any
"close" or exclusive books sold in the territory of the other,
and that all applications for agency coming from without the
field of either should be referred to the party having the
exclusive right of sale, and a charge of 50 cents be made for
each application so referred, and that, if Thompson should go
out of business, or for any reason cease to prosecute the sale
of the Manning book, the right of sale in his exclusive field
should revert to Hubbard Bros., unless his successor should
prosecute the sale in like manner as he would have done.
Afterwards, in correspondence with Hubbard, Thompson
insisted upon being allowed a larger territory for, the sale
of the Manning book than that specified in the paper he had
signed. Hubbard insisted that the provision which appears
in both of the papers, "The field on stock book to be the
same as on H. Bros.' books except the six counties in Missouri
adjacent to Kansas City," specified the territory which had
been settled upon. Thompson also, in a letter to Hubbard,
desired a date to be fixed for the notes and for the commencement of the two years of his exclusive right in the Hubbard
books. As to those matters, Hubbard replied that the date
of the notes and the commencement of the two years would
properly be fixed as of the date of the delivery of the plates.
The dispute about the territory to-be allowed to Thompson in
respect to the Manning book continued, but was finally settled
in a correspondence which occurred in April, 1880, and such
settlement resulted in the shipment of the plates by Thompson
to Hubbard, and in the payment of the consideration therefor,
VOL. CxxxI-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

by $500 of cash and $3500 in notes, the longest of which ran
for two years from the 15th of May, 1880, and all of which
were duly paid.
Thompson testifies that he shipped the plates because he
and Hubbard had come to an agreement as to territory; and
he also sent to iHubbard the bill of sale before set forth as a
part of the original bill.
In enclosing to Thompson, on the 1st of June, 1880, the
notes amounting to $3500, Hubbard wrote to him as follows:
"We enclose herewith notes to the amount of $3500, which,
with $500 allowed you on book account, is in full settlement
of your bill of May 3d for plates, copyright, original cuts and
stamps for binding, of Manning's Illustrated Stock Doctor and
Live Stock Encyclopedia. The first lot of plates did not reach
us till about the 12th, second lot about the 18th, and third lot
is not in yet, so we date notes the 15th, which is sooner than
is really due you. Please acknowledge receipt in full and
oblige." The notes were all of them dated May 15, 1880, and
each of them bore interest at 6 per cent per annum, the three
$1000 notes being payable respectively at 8, 12 and 18 months
after date, and the $500 note at two years after date. Thompson, in a letter to Hubbard Bros., dated June 4, 1880, acknowledged the receipt of the four notes, and said: "With $500
previously allowed, they are payment in full of plates, engravings, copyright and all the material that enter into the manufacture of the Stock Book. The reservation being that we
control certain field, and are to get books at a certain rate
above actual cost of manufacture."
The draft of an agreement which Hubbard sent to Thompson in July, 1880, related only to future deliveries of the Manning book, to the territory in which it was to be sold by
Thompson, and to the exclusive agency by Thompson for the
publications of Hubbard. It did not mention the sale of the
plates or the copyright, or the consideration therefor, because
that had been settled by the bill of sale and the delivery of
the notes; and it fixed the territory in which the Manning
book was to be sold by Thompson, according to the limits
-which had been settled upon -by the compromise of April,

THO2NPSON v. HUBBARD..
Opinion of the Court.

1880. Up to July, 1880, after the compromise of April, 1880,
no controversy had arisen in regard to any copies of the Manning book ordered by Thompson, because he had ordered none,
having on hand the edition which he had printed before he
deliveiled the plates to Hubbard. The draft agreement prepared by Thompson and sent by him to Hubbard in August,
1880, differed in matters which Hubbard considered material,
from the draft agreement sent by Hubbard to Thompson in
July, 1880.
We are of opinion that the transaction between the parties
in regard to the sale of the copyright of the Manning book
and the plates therefor, was a completed transaction, independently of all contracts or agreements in regard to other matters, that the consideration therefor was paid, and that that
contract was never rescinded.
The remark made by Hubbard, in his letter to Thompson
of August 12, 1880, "I am quite agreeable to your view that
there is virtually no agreement between us," had reference to
matters other than the sale of the copyright and the plates,
which had passed to Hubbard, and which he had in his possession, and for which he had paid partly in cash and partly in
the negotiable promissory notes of Hubbard Bros. There was
no idea on the part of either party that the copyright and the
plates were to be reconveyed to Thompson, or that he was to
repay the consideration to Hubbard. Neither party suggested
anything of the kind. Hubbard was publishing the book and
pushing its sale, and Thompson, in and after the fall of 1880,
was buying from Hubbard and paying for such copies of the
Manning book as he desired to sell. The real dispute between
the parties was as to the extent to which Thompson should be
bound to exert himself in selling Hubbard's other publications,
and should be restricted in selling any other publications than
the three specified in the paper of March 30, 1880, and the
point which concerned the matter of the sale of Hubbard's
publications for two years had become unimportant when the
original bill was filed, because that time had then expired.
The preparing and publishing by Thompson of the Periam
and Baker book was entirely inconsistent with the idea that

OCTOBER TERi21, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

he still owned the copyright of the Manning book. At the
time the original bill was filed, Hubbard had fully performed
his agreement to furnish the Manning book to Thompson as
Thompson ordered it, had respected the territory allotted to
Thompson, and had shipped his other publications to Thompson as demanded. On these facts, there could be no revesting
in Thompson of the title to the copyright and the plates, and
all that he could ever have a right to, growing out of the failure
by Hubbard to perform any agreements which he had entered
into, was a remedy by damages in an action at common law,
or a remedy by a bill in equity for specific performance, on
the basis of the existence of the actual agreement made.
The remaining question is as to whether Hubbard, as the
owner of the copyright of the Manning book, can maintain
his suit against Thompson for its infringement.
The following statement, is made in the brief by Hubbard:
"It is conceded that plaintiff's book was duly entered for
copyright; that before publication a printed copy of the title of
the book was delivered at the office of the librarian of Congress
at Washington; that, within ten days after publication, two
complete copies of the best edition of the book were delivered
at the office of the librarian of Congress at Washington; and
that on the page next after the title-page there was printed,
in every copy of the first edition of the book, notice of copyright in the following words, viz.: 'Entered according to act
of Congress, in the year 1880, by N. D. Thompson & Co., in
the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.' .It is
also conceded that, after Mr. Thompson had delivered the electrotype plates of the book to Hubbard Brothers, they changed
the form of the copyright notice so as to read as follows, viz.:
'Entered according to Act of Congress,' in which form the
notice was printed in the copies of several editions, and that
afterward plaintiff again changed the notice of copyright so
as to read as follows: 'Copyright, 1880,' in which last mentioned form the notice was printed in the copies of several
editions."
One of the forms used by Hubbard did not state either the
year in which the copyright was entered, or by whom it was

THOI1PSON v. HUBBARD.
Opinion of the Court.

entered; while the other form mentioned the year but not
the name.
Section 4962 of the Revised Statutes provides as follows:
"No person shall maintain an action for the infringement of
his copyright unless he shall give notice thereof by inserting
in the several copies of every edition published, on the titlepage or the page immediately following, if it be a book; or if
a map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, engraving, photograph, painting, drawing, chromo, statue, statuary, or model
or design intended to be perfected and completed as a work of
the fine arts, by inscribing upon some portion of the face or
front thereof, or on the face of the substance on which the
same shall be mounted, the following words: 'Entered according to act of Congress, in the year -,
by A. B., in the
office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington."'
Section 1 of the act of June 18, 1874, c. 301, 18 Stat.
78, which act took effect on and after August 1, 1874, provides as follows: "That no person shall maintain an action
for the infringement of his copyright unless he shall give
notice thereof by inserting in the several copies of every
edition published, on the title-page or the page immediately
following, if it be a book; or if a map, chart, musical composition, print, cut, engraving, photograph, painting, drawing,
chromo, statue, statuary, or model or design intended to be
perfected and completed as a work of the fine arts, by inscribing upon some visible portion thereof or of the substance on
which the same shall be mounted, the following words, viz.
'Entered according to act of Congress, in the year
by A. B., in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at
Washington ;' or, at his option the word ' Copyright,' together
with the year the copyright was entered, and the name of
the party by whom it was taken out; thus- 'Copyright,
18-, by A. B.'" The 4th section of the same act repealed
all laws and parts of laws inconsistent with the provisions
contained in the first three sections of the act.
It is very clear that Hubbard, as the proprietor of the
copyright, was bound to give the statutory notice in the
several copies of every edition published by him, and that

OCTOBER TERI, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

he did not do so. The plain declaration of the statute is, that
no person shall maintain an action for the infringement of his
copyright, unless he shall give notice thereof by inserting the
prescribed words in the several copies of every edition published. That means, every edition which he, as controlling
the publication, publishes. His failure to give such notice debars him from maintaining an action for the infringement of
his copyright. The word "action" means an action either at
law or in equity.
Section 3 of the act of May 31, 1790, c. 15, 1 Stat. 125,
declared that no person should be entitled to the benefit of
that act, unless he should first deposit a printed copy of the
title of a book in the prescribed office; and further provided
that the authoi or proprietor should; within a prescribed time,
cause a copy of the record of the title to be published in one
or more newspapers, as prescribed. '
Section 1 of the act of April 29, 1802, c. 36, 2 Stat. 171,
provided that every person who should seek to obtain a copyright of a book should, in addition to the requisites enjoined
in the act of 1790, give information, by causing the copy of
the record to be inserted at full length in the title-page, or in
the page immediately following the title of the book.
Section 5 of the act of February 3, 1831, c. 16, 4 Stat.
437, declared that no person should be entitled to the benefit
of that act, unless he should insert the prescribed words in the
published copies of the book. In section 97 of the act of July
8, 1870, c. 230, 16 Stat. 214, now section 4962 of the Revised
Statutes, the language of section 5 of the act of 1831 was
changed so as to declare that no person should maintain an
action for the infringement of his copyright, unless he should
insert in the several published copies the notice prescribed.
This requirement of giving the prescribed notice has always
been held, under all of the statutes, to be one of the conditions
precedent to the perfection of the copyright, the other two
being the deposit, before publication, of the printed copy of
the title, and the depositing in the public office, within the
prescribed time after publication, of a copy or copies of the
book. Wheaton. v..Peters, 8 Pet. 591; .Merrell v. Tice, 101
U. S.557; Callaghan v. -Myers, 128 U. S.617, 652.

