OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

LUCAS ET AL. v. TOWNSEND ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-898.

Decided May 30, 1988

An application to enjoin a school bond referendum election scheduled for
May 31, 1988, is granted, pending the timely docketing of an appeal.
The Bibb County, Georgia, Board of Education (Board), which had originally voted to place the referendum on the March 1988 primary election
ballot, postponed the referendum until May when it would be voted on
with a second bond issue. Applicants asked the Board to rescind its
decision, arguing that changing the date from a primary day would adversely affect voter turnout, that the bond issues had been combined in
an effort to manipulate the minority vote, and that the May referendum
had not been submitted for preclearance as required by § 5 of the Voting
Rights Act, which provides that certain jurisdictions may not implement
any election practices different from those in force on November 1, 1964,
without first obtaining approval from, inter alia, the Attorney General.
Subsequently, the Board applied for preclearance-a procedure not yet
completed-and applicants sought an injunction in the District Court to
prohibit the Board from holding the election on the ground that it had
not been precleared. A three-judge court denied the request, concluding, among other things, that the referendum was not a "change" covered by § 5, a conclusion that is problematic under this Court's precedents. See, e. g., NAACP v. Hampton County Election Comm'n, 470
U. S. 166. It is likely that four Members of the Court would vote to
note probable jurisdiction, and there is a fair prospect that the Court
would vote to reverse the judgment below. Moreover, irreparable
harm would likely flow from a denial of injunctive relief because letting
the election go forward would place the burdens of inertia and litigation
delay on those whom the statute was intended to protect, despite their
diligence in seeking to adjudicate their rights before the election; and
because the effect of even a subsequently invalidated election is likely to
be most disruptive. Also, the burden an injunction places on defendants
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Opinion in Chambers

486 U. S.

can be ascribed to their own failure to seek preclearance sufficiently in
advance of the election. On balance, the equities favor applicants.
JUSTICE KENNEDY,

Circuit Justice.

This is an application to enjoin a bond referendum election
scheduled for May 31, 1988, in Bibb County, Georgia. The
applicants are five black citizens registered to vote in Bibb
County. On May 27, 1988, a three-judge District Court for
the Middle District of Georgia declined to issue an injunction,
concluding that the applicants had failed to establish that
holding the election now contemplated would violate § 5 of
the Voting Rights Act, 79 Stat. 439, as amended, 42 U. S. C.
§ 1973c. The United States has submitted, and I have reviewed, a memorandum advising me that it supports the applicants' request for immediate injunctive relief. I have also
reviewed and considered a submission by the respondents in
opposition.
I
On December 17, 1987, the Bibb County Board of Education resolved to place a bond referendum on the March 8,
1988, ballot, a primary election date popularly known as
"Super Tuesday." The bond issue was intended to help defray the cost of air conditioning certain local schools. The
Board subsequently voted, on January 4, 1988, to rescind its
prior resolution. It resolved to postpone the referendum
until May 31, 1988, when it would be voted on with a second
bond issue for the building of a new high school.
On March 7, 1988, counsel for the applicants requested the
Board to rescind its vote calling for the May 31 referendum.
In his letter to the Board, counsel argued that changing the
date of the election from a primary day would adversely affect minority voter turnout. The letter also argued that the
two bond issues had been combined in an effort to manipulate
the minority vote, and noted that the call for the May 31 referendum had not yet been submitted for preclearance to the
Voting Section of the Civil Rights Division of the United
States Department of Justice.

LUCAS v. TOWNSEND
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

On March 30, 1988, the state authorities applied to the Voting Section of the Civil Rights Division for preclearance. On
May 25, 1988, the Civil Rights Division responded that "the
information sent is insufficient to enable us to determine that
the proposed change does not have the purpose and will not
have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on
account of race or color," and asked for additional information, including a "detailed explanation of the reason for choosing May 31, 1988, as the bond election date."
The Civil Rights Division also requested that state authorities respond to allegations (i) that the Super Tuesday date
had been abandoned because the turnout of black voters was
expected to be high on that date, and (ii) that the two bond
issues were consolidated to prevent black voters from voting
separately on each of the proposed projects. Finally, the Division noted that the Attorney General has 60 days to consider a completed submission, and that the period would
begin to run upon receipt by the Division of all necessary
information.
The applicants sought an injunction prohibiting the Board
from holding the election on the ground that the election had
not been precleared by the Attorney General in accordance
with § 5. On May 27, 1988, the three-judge court denied
the request for an injunction. The court stated that it was
required to determine whether the actions proposed "'have
the potential for diluting the value of the Negro vote and
are within the definitional terms of § 5."' Civ. Action No.
88-166-1 (MD Ga., May 27, 1988) (slip op., at 3), quoting
Georgia v. United States, 411 U. S. 526, 534 (1973). It also
adverted to the Attorney General's regulation providing that
any discretionary setting of the date for a special election,
which is defined to include a referendum, is subject to the
preclearance requirement, 28 CFR § 51.17 (1987), and acknowledged that the Attorney General had not precleared
the referendum.

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Opinion in Chambers

486 U. S.

The court concluded that the applicants had failed to present evidence that the procedures to be utilized in the upcoming election differ from those in use at the time the Act
became law. Accordingly, it concluded that the referendum
was not a "change" covered by §5. While the court noted
that the Attorney General's regulation provides otherwise, it
held that the regulation is not supported by the language of
§ 5. Alternatively, the court concluded that the applicants
had failed to show that holding the referendum on May 31,
1988, "has even the potential for diluting the minority vote."
Civ. Action No. 88-166-1, supra, slip op., at 4-5. Accordingly, the court declined to issue the injunction prayed for by
the applicants. This application followed.
II
The principles that control a Circuit Justice's consideration
of in-chambers applications for equitable relief are well settled. As a threshold consideration, it must be established
that four Members of the Court will consider the issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari or to note probable
jurisdiction. See White v. Florida, 458 U. S. 1301, 1302
(1982) (Powell, J., in chambers); Rostker v. Goldberg, 448
U. S. 1306, 1308 (1980) (BRENNAN, J., in chambers). I must
also be persuaded that there is a fair prospect that five Justices will conclude that the case was erroneously decided
below. See, e. g., Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201, 1203
(1972) (Powell, J., in chambers). Finally, an applicant must
demonstrate that irreparable harm will likely result from the
denial of equitable relief. In appropriate cases, a Circuit
Justice will balance the equities to determine whether the injury asserted by the applicant outweighs the harm to other
parties or to the public. See Rostker v. Goldberg, supra, at
1308; Times-Picayune Publishing Corp. v. Schulingkamp,
419 U. S. 1301, 1304 (1974) (Powell. J., in chambers).
The substantiality of the federal questions presented by
the case cannot be doubted. Section 5 provides that certain

LUCAS v. TOWNSEND
1301

Opinion in Chambers

jurisdictions, including the one in which this case arose, may
not implement any election practices different from those in
force on November 1, 1964, without first obtaining approval
from the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia or, alternatively, from the Attorney General.
Neither statutory requirement has been met in this case.
The three-judge court concluded, however, that the discretionary setting of the date of a special election is not a
"change" covered by the statute, notwithstanding the provision in 28 CFR § 51.17 (1987) to the contrary. The conclusion is most problematic under our precedents, see, e. g.,
NAACP v. Hampton County Election Comm'n, 470 U. S.
166, 178 (1985) (noting that it could not seriously be disputed
that "a change in the date of an election, if effected by statute, requires approval by the Attorney General under § 5"),
and I have concluded that four Members of the Court would
likely vote to note probable jurisdiction and that there is a
fair prospect that the Court would vote to reverse the judgment below.
I am further persuaded that irreparable harm likely would
flow from a denial of injunctive relief. Permitting the election to go forward would place the burdens of inertia and
litigation delay on those whom the statute was intended to
protect, despite their obvious diligence in seeking an adjudication of their rights prior to the election. Even if the election is subsequently invalidated, the effect on both the applicants and respondents likely would be most disruptive.
Further, although an injunction would doubtless place certain burdens on the respondents, such burdens can fairly be
ascribed to the respondents' own failure to seek preclearance
sufficiently in advance of the date chosen for the election.
On balance, I conclude that the equities favor the applicants.
Today I have entered an order enjoining the election, pending the timely docketing of an appeal.

