1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Opinion in Chambers

486 U. S.

DOE v. SMITH
ON APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF INJUNCTION
No. A-954.

Decided June 15, 1988

Applicant's application for an order enjoining Jane Smith from obtaining an
abortion of their unborn child is denied. There is serious doubt whether
there is a federal remedy for this claim since Smith's decision to obtain
an abortion can be carried out without any state action. Applicant's
claim-that the respective interests of the parties should be balanced by a
neutral tribunal before Smith's decision is implemented-provides a particularly weak basis for invoking the extraordinary judicial relief sought.
Such balancing has already been done by an Indiana trial court, which
found that applicant's interests did not outweigh Smith's constitutionally
protected right to abort the fetus. In addition, the State Supreme Court
has indicated that there is a presumption of correctness to the trial court's
decision in such matters. Moreover, there is some danger that a delay in
implementing Smith's decision may increase her risk of harm. There is
also substantial doubt whether the State Supreme Court has issued a final
decision providing a basis for this Court's appellate jurisdiction.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant has filed an application with me as Circuit Justice to enter an order enjoining Jane Smith from obtaining an
abortion of their unborn child. For the reasons hereinafter
stated, the application is denied.

Applicant initiated proceedings seeking this relief from the
Elkhart, Indiana, Superior Court on May 31, 1988. After
granting a temporary restraining order without notice, the
Superior Court held an evidentiary hearing, made detailed
findings of fact, conclusions of law, and filed a written opinion. The findings recite, in part:
"5) That the unrebutted testimony from both the parties is that the Plaintiff is the natural father of the
unborn child of the mother.
"6) That the Plaintiff and the Defendant have never
been married and do not contemplate marriage.

DOE v. SMITH
1308

Opinion in Chambers

"7) That the child was conceived in April of 1988
during a liaison between the mother and the father,
which commenced in February or March and terminated
shortly after conception.
"8) That at the time conception occurred, the father
was separated from his wife of six months, and upon
leaving the Defendant he became reunited with his first
wife.
"9) That the father has two children, one his biological
issue, with his first wife.
"12) That the father has been sporadically employed
at low-paying jobs for the last eighteen months.
"13) That the mother has testified she is physically,
emotionally and economically unwilling to bear the child.
"14) That the parties mutually agree that there is no
foreseeable possibility of their reuniting in any way."
In his opinion, the trial judge stated, in part:
"While the Court has carefully weighed the testimony, it
is apparent that although the Plaintiff has expressed a
legitimate and apparently sincere interest in the unborn
fetus, his interest would not be sufficient to outweigh the
Constitutionally protected right of the Defendant to abort
her child. It would appear from the Danforth decision
that in order to require the mother to carry a child to
term against her wishes, the father must demonstrate
clear and compelling reasons justifying such actions. In
this case, the father has failed to do so. Reviewing the
undisputed facts presented in this Cause, the Court is
unable to find that the interests of the Plaintiff outweigh
the interest of the Defendant. It is significant that,
among other facts, the evidence discloses the parties are
not married, that there is no suggestion they will ever
reunite, that the Plaintiff is able to father other children
and, in fact, has other children, and that the Plaintiff has
showed substantial instability in his marital and roman-

OCTOBER TERM, 1987
Opinion in Chambers

486 U. S.

tic life. Based upon the Plaintiff's romantic patterns
over the last eight months, it would be impossible for the
Court to predict the stability of his family unit at the
time of birth.
"In summary, even if the Danforth decision permits
the Court to balance the interest of the father of the unborn child against those of the mother, in this particular
case the balancing would be in the mother's favor."
On June 14, 1988, the Indiana Supreme Court accepted
transfer of the case, based on its emergency nature, but denied a petition for a stay. In doing so it relied on "the presumption of the validity accorded all trial court judgments,"
this Court's decision in Planned Parenthood of Central Missouri v. Danforth, 428 U. S. 52, 67-72 (1976), and its conclusion that there was not a sufficient likelihood that John Doe
would prevail on the merits of his appeal to justify a stay.
In addition to the reasons set forth by the trial court and
the Indiana Supreme Court, I would add that I have serious
doubts concerning the availability of a federal remedy for this
claim in view of the fact that Jane Smith's decision to obtain
an abortion can be carried out without any action on the part
of the State of Indiana or any other state governmental subdivision. Applicant does not argue that he has an absolute
right to veto Jane Smith's decision, but rather contends that
the respective interests of the parties should be balanced by a
neutral tribunal before her decision is implemented. Since
such balancing has already been done by the trial court, since
the Indiana Supreme Court has indicated that there is a presumption of correctness to the decision of the trial court in a
matter of this kind, and since there is some danger that a
delay in implementing Jane Smith's decision may increase the
risk of physical or emotional harm to Smith, applicant's claim
provides a particularly weak basis for invoking the extraordinary judicial relief that is sought. Indeed, I have substantial

DOE v. SMITH
1308

1311

Opinion in Chambers

doubt whether there has yet been a final decision by the highest court of the State of Indiana that would provide a basis
for appellate jurisdiction in this Court.

