GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
142

165

Syllabus.

The public interest in such state control in the arid-*
land states is definite and substantial. In Clark v. Nash,
198 U. S. 361, 370, this court accepted that view to the
extent of holding that in the arid-land states the use of
water for irrigation, although by a private individual, is
a public use; and sustained as constitutional a state statute which, for purposes of irrigation, permitted an individual to condemn a right-of-way for enlarging a ditch
across the land of another. Mr. Justice Peckham, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"The rights of a riparian owner in and to the use of
the water flowing by his land are not the same in the arid
and mountainous States of the West that they are in the
States of the East. These rights have been altered by
many of the Western States, by their -constitutions and
laws, because of the totally different circumstances in
which their inhabitants are placed, from those that exist
in the States of the East, and such alterations have been
made for the very purpose of thereby contributing to
the growth and prosperity of those States arising from
mining and the cultivation oT an otherwise valuelesg soil,
by means of irrigation. This court must recognize the
difference of climate and soil, which render necessary these
different laws in the States so situated."
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the decree of the
court below, passing without consideration the second
question discussed by that court and upon which its decision rested, as to which we express no opinion.
Decree affirmed.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & ELECTRIC CO. ET

AL. v.

DECATUR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 570. Argued April 3, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Where by state statute the basis for assessing a street railway
company for the cost of paving a street between and along its

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tracks is benefits resulting to the railway, but benefits are presumed
from the assessment and the company attacking it must prove it
an arbitrary abuse of legislative authority in that no benefit
accrued to the railway, a refusal of a state court to admit in
defense of a suit to collect the tax, any evidence tending to prove
that no benefit resulted, on the ground that such evidence is immaterial, amounts to a denial of a hearing on the issue and violates the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 171.
2. In the present case, this Court-is bound by the construction placed
upon the state statute by the state court; the construction becomes
part of the statute as thopgh expressed there in appropriate words.
P. 170.
3.. Offer of street railway companies to surrender all of their railway properties in a city rather than pay an assessment for paving
within and next to some of its rails, tends'strongly to show that the
assessment exceeded the entire value of the property with which
the improvement was connected. P. 170.
179 Ga. 471; 176 S. E. 494, reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree rendered
against- two street railway and power companies for the
amount of a paving assessment, with interest.

Mr. Walter T. Colquitt for appellants.
Mr. James A. Branch, with whom Messrs. William

Schley Howard and Scott Candler were on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Georgia Railway & Electric Company, which
owned and operated street-car lines in the City of Decatur
and between that city and other points in the state,
leased its property in 1912 to the Georgia Railway &
Power Company for the term of 999 years. By the terms
of the lease, the latter company bound itself to pay all
taxes, rates, charges, licenses, and assessments which

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
165

167

Opinion of the Court.

might be lawfully imposed and assessed against the prop-erty during the continuance of the lease.
By the terms of its charter and a consolidation agreement, the Georgia Power Company in 1927 became possessed of all the rights, franchises, etc., and subject to all
the duties, liabilities, debts and oblig.-tions, of these two
corporations; and thereupon their existence, with certain
exceptions, ceased and became merged in the Georgia
Power Company as a consolidated corporation.
On May 15, 1925, the City of Decat-dr, acting under a
state statute," ordained that a designated street over
which the railway lines extended should be paved as a
necessary improvement for travel and drainage; and that
the cost of such pavement should be assessed in full
against the Railway & Power Companhy for paving between the tracks and for two feet on each side thereof,
the remaining cost to be assessed one-half against the
real estate abutting on one side of the street where paved,
and the other half against the real estate abutting on the
other side. Upon the refusal of .each of the three companies to pay the cost assessed for the track paving, the
city filed a bill in equity against them seeking to recover
the amount of the assessment, alleging the absence of all
legal remedy.
In the trial court a demurrer to the bill was overruled
and a motion to dismiss was denied. The motion to dismiss was based upon the ground, among others, that
neither of the defendart companies had received any
benefit from the paving, and that the assessment and
ordinance were invalid as contravening the due process
and equal protection of law clauses of the Fourteenth
1

Ga. L. 1919,, pp. 934 e& seq.; Ga. L. 1924, pp. 534 et seq., con-

ferring upon the city power to improve its streets and make assessment for the cost of the knpruvements against abutting real estate
and against any street railway or other railroad company having
tracks running aiLng or across sueh streets.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

2b5 U. S.

Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Thereafter, answers were filed, alleging that the assessment vastly exceeded the entire value of the street-railway property and
lines located and operated within the city, and offering to
surrender them to the city, together with the franchise
under which they were constructed and operated, without
the necessity of levy or sale; that the only reason why
such offer was not accepted was because their entire value
was less than the amount of the assessment; that the paving for which th6 assessment was made did not benefit the
lines, property or fianchise, but, on the other hand, was
a detriment.
Appellants called a witness in support of the contention
that their property was not benefited; but upon objection his testimony was excluded. They offered to prove
by him that the pavement in question added nothing in
value to the street-railway property, but on the contrary
was a detriment to its operation; that it made it more
difficult and expensive to maintain the track with the
pavement than without it; that the railway does not use
the pavement in any way; and that it adds nothing in the
way of additional travel upon the street cars. The trial
court sustained an objection to the offer on the ground
"that the question of benefits by virtue of overruling the
demurrer to the petition" became irrelevant and immaterial.
At the conclusion of the trial, a decree was rendered
against the Georgia Railway & Power Company and the
Georgia Power Company for the amount of the paving
assessment, with interest, which was affirmed by the state
supreme court on appeal. 179 Ga. 471; 176 S. E. 494. The
ruling of the trial court excluding the evidence offered
upon the subject of benefits was sustained on the ground
that such evidence was immaterial to the consideration of
the question; and the contention of the railway corporations in respect of the violation of the Federal Constitution was rejected as being without foundation.

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
165

169

--Opinion of the Court.

As we read its decision, the court below held that the
state statute which authorized, and the ordinance which
directed, an assessment for the cost of irmprovements require, as the basis for their operation, the existence of
benefits; and the case was dealt with in that view. The
contention of the appellants, as stated by that court, was
that the street railway received no benefit from the paving
and assessment, and, therefore, there was an arbitrary
abuse of legislative authority. But the court held that
'from the act of the city in adopting the ordinance a presumption arose that the paving was beneficial to the
street railway company and the assessment legal. "The
burden," it said, "of overcoming this presumption that
the action of the city was not an arbitrary abuse of the
legislative authority rests upon the plaintiffs in error."
The fourth headnote, which as we understand is prepared
by the court, reads in part: 2
"When paving is done and assessment therefor regularly made in the manner provided in the city charter, a
presumption arises that the paving and assessment were
legal, and casts the burden of proof on one who attacks
the assessment on the ground that the same was an arbitrary abuse of the legislative authority, because of no
benefit, or that it is confiscatory."
In the body of the opinion, there is an excerpt from an
earlier decision to the effect that the power to determine
benefits to be received by the property of a street-railway
company from local improvements is a legislative one;
that this power was vested in the commissioners of the
city; and that the question of benefits having been determined by the commissioners, could not be inquired into
by the courts unless it is made to appear that there has
been an arbitrary abuse of the power.
In this court, the city insists that, under Georgia law,
"The general rule that assessments against abutting own'The italics are ours.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

era for street improvements are sustainable only to the
extent of special benefits to abutting property is not applicable to railway companies having tracks in the street
improved." And it seeks to sustain the assessment as an
exercise of the police power and the alleged power of the
state to alter or amend corporate charters. If the Georgia
statutes had been thus construed by the state supreme
court, a different question would be presented. The difficulty, however, is that the court, as we have said, - construed the statute as contemplating the existence of benefits to the railway as a basis for the assessment, but required the railway companies to overcome a legislative
presumption that such benefits existed by proof of an arbitrary abuse of the legislative authority "because of no
benefit." By that construction we are bound, and in
accordance with it must consider and determine the case.
The construction becomes part of the statute as much as
though it were found in appropriate words in its text.
Morley v. Lake Shore d- M. S. Ry. Co., 146 U. S. 162, 166;
Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 73;
Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265 U. S. 30, 32, et seq.
Under the statute and ordinance thus construed, if the
burden imposed is without any compensating advantage
(as appellants offered to show), the arbitrary abuse of the
powr exercised is plain, Myles Salt Co. v. Board of
Comm'rs, 239 U. S. 478, 485; the assessment amounts to
confiscation. Bush v. Branson, 248 Fed. 377, 380-381.
And this doctrine has been fully recognized in Georgia.
Savannah v. Knight, 172 Ga. 371, 375; 157 S. E. 309.
Morebver, the offer of appellants to surrender all their
railway property within the city, including the franchise,
strongly tended to show that the assessment exceeded the
entire value of the property with which the improvement
was connected; in which case, as the court below itself
has held, there can be no presumption of benefit. Hoist
v.. LaGrange, 175 Ga. 402, 404; 165 S. E. 217.

GEORGIA RY.& EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
165

171

STONE, J., dissenting.

No question is raised as to the competency of the proof
which was offered, and evidently theie -is none. The ruling was simply that it was immaterial. But. the existence
of benefits resulting from the improvement Was material
;nd was deemed so-else why require it, or why create an
affirmative presumption in respect of it?.. Certainly, competent proof tending to overcome a rebuttable .presumption of material fact cannot be immaterial; and the refusal
of a court to receive or consider any proof whatever on
the subject amounts to a denial of a hearing on that
issue, in contravention of the due process of law clause of
the Constitution. Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317, 319;
BandiniPetroleum Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U. S. 8, 19;
Western & Atlantic R. Co. v. Henderson, 279 U. S. .69,
642; Zeigler v. South d- North Alabama R. Co., 58 Ala.
594, 599. Compare Norwood v. Baker, 172 U. S. 269, 278279; Road District.V- Missouri Pacific R. Co., 274 U. S.
188; Standard Pipe Line 'v. Highway District, 277 U. S.
160.
The decree of the court below must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with the foregoing opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
The question is one of state pow6r. Since the Constitution does not deny to the local authorities power to
require the paving of appellants' right of way, as a police
measure regulating the use of the public streets, see Durham Public Service Co. v. Durham, 261 U. S. 149; Fort
Smith Light Co. v. Paving.District, 274 U. S. 387, it
would seem that the mere fact that the state court justified the exercise of the power on different or even untenable grounds would not present to us any substantial
federal question.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

In any case, the examination of the record makes it.
plain that the question considered in the opinion of this
Court is unsubstantial. Appellant Georgia Power Company, which has taken over the rights and obligations of
the other appellants, has a single franchise to supply electric power and to operate a street car line in Decatur
and elsewhere, and is subject to a contract requiring it
to maintain a five cent fare on its railway. See Georgia
Ry. Co. v. Decatur, 262 U. S. 432; GeorgiaPower Co. v.
Decatur, 281 U. S. 505. In an attempt to establish the
arbitrary character of the assessment, appellant offered to
prove that the railway could not operate its line in Decatur profitably under its contract for a five cent fare,
and that it stood ready to surrender the franchise and discontinue operation. It further offered to show that no
benefits were received by the Power Company or by any
of its property as a result of the improvement. This
general offer was explained and made specific by the proffered testimony of a witness, rejected as immaterial, that
the pavement "added not one cent to the value of the
street railway property at all." "On the contrary," in
his opinion, "it was a detriment to the street railway
operations." Traffic was not increased thereby. Indeed,
the pavement would increase the labor and expense of
keeping the track in good condition. While the five cent
*fare continued, the company would be unable to earn the
cost of operation. Neither on the argument in this court
nor, so far as appears, in any of the courts of Georgia.
did the company suggest that it had additional or more
persuasive evidence to offer.
Our decisions make it abundantly plain that this evidence, if received, could have no tendency to overcome
the presumptive correctness of the legislative finding of
benefit. A property owner does not establish want of
assessable benefits by showing that a, particular public
improvement does not aid or facilitate the particular use

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECAiTUR.
165

173

STONE, J., dissenting.

which he makes of the land, Miller & Lux v. Sacramento
DrainageDistrict, 256 U. S. 129; Houck v. Littld River
Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 264; Valley Farms Co.
v. Westchester County, 261 U. S. 155, or demonstrate
that the assessment is confiscatory by showing that the
use which he makes of the land is unprofitable, Durham
Public Service Co. v. Durham,supra,153-155; Fort Smith
Light Co. v. Paving District, supra, 390." The earning
capacity of the property would seem especially irrelevant
where the profit has been limited by the taxpayer's contract, whether entered into improvidently or to gain some
collateral advantage.
The offer to surrender the unprofitable street railway,
while retaining the profitable electric business, which in
this case the Supreme Court of the State ruled were parts
of an indivisible franchise, was rightly disregarded as
without probative force. The Power Company could not,
without the consent of the city,.sur'render the unprofitable
part of its franchise and retain the profitable part. Broad
River Power Co. v. Sduth Carolina, 281 U. S. 537, 543,
544. The city could not accept the offer without abrogating_ its contract. Neither the offer nor the refusal to
accept it is evidence that the improvement' was not of
public benefit, which inured to the appellant as a property
owner:
The Supreme Court of Georgia did not question the
appellant's right to rebut the presumption of validity by
evidence reasonably- indicative of arbitrary action. On
the contrary, it expressly recognized that right in its opinion in this case, 179 Ga. 471; 176 S. E. 494, as well as
in an earlier opinion from which-it quoted, GeorgiaPower
Co. v. Decatur, 170 Ga. 699; 154 S. E. 268. The Court
did no more than to hold that, treating the proffered testimony as accepted rather than rejected, it was insufficient
to establish any inference of arbitrary oppression. Compare Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182, 190, 191; Mt. St.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

Mary's Cemetery Assn. v. Mullins, 48 U. S. 501; Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240'U. S. 242. For
that reason the testimony was correctly held to be "immaterial," and the error, if any, "harmless."
A street must be properly paved, for the safety and convenience of travelers, as well as for the good of abutting
owners. A resolution of the city authorities that a new
pavement has become necessary, and assessing the cost
according to an estimate of benefits, is not to be undone
because the railway is of the opinion that for the operation of its business the old pavement is good enough.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

and MR. JUSTICE CARDozo join

in this opinion.
UNITED STATES v. ARIZONA.
No. 18, original.

Argued March 4, 1935.--Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Assuming that the stretch of the Colorado River between Arizona

and California involved in this case is navigable, Arizona owns
the part of the bed that is east of the thread of the stream; and
her jurisdiction in respect of the appropriation, use and distribution of an equitable share of the waters flowing therein is unaffected
by the Colorado River Compact or the federal reclamation law. But
the title of the State is held subject to the power granted to Congress by the commerce clause, and under that clause Congress has
power to cause to be built a dam across the river in aid of navigation. P. 183.
2. Section 9 of the Act of March 3, 1899, forbidding the construction
of any dam in any navigable river of the United States until the
consent of Congress shall have been obtained, and until the plans
shall have been submitted to and approved by the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of War, applies not only to acts of private persons but also to the acts of government officers. P. 183.
3. There is no presumption that regulatory and disciplinary statutes
kdo not extend to government officers. P. 184.

