662

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

WEST ET AL. v. CHESAPEAKE & POTOMAC TELEPHONE COMPANY OF BALTIMORE.
-APPEAL FROM -THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.
No'. 648. Argued April 10, 11, 1935.-Decided June 3, 1935.
1. Since by legislation prescribing the rates or charges of a public
utility company the use of its property is taken,, due process requires that the rates prescribed shall be such as to assure just compensation, i. e., a reasonable rate of return upon the then value of
the property. P. 671.
2. Valuation of the property of a public utility for rate-fixing purposes is a matter of sound judgment involving facts. Actual cost,
reproduction cost, and all other evidences of value, including price
trends and levels, are to be given their proper weight in reaching
the conclusion. P. 671.
3. The property of a telephone company,-a great, integrated aggre,gate of many and diverse elements, not primarily intended for sale
in the market but for devotion to the public use now and for the
indefinite future-is not susceptible of being valued like ordinary
market commodities. P. 672.
4. While the owner of such a property must assume, and may not
pass on to the public, the risk involved in any general decline of
values, and may have the advantage also of a general rise in such
values, it would be unfair to both owner and public, and also impracticable, to adjust valuations of the property, and the consequent returns, to sudden fluctuations of the prices of materials and
labor. P. 673.
5. In a suit to enjoin the enforcement of rates alleged to be in violation of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, the
function of the federal court is confined to the question of confiscation; the legislative finding is not to be set aside for mere errors
of procedure. Los Angeles Gas-& Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287. P. 674.
6. Where the entire method used by a state commission in valuing
the property of a public utility for rate purposes was necessarily
erroneous and necessarily involved unjust and inaccurate results,
it is not the function of the federal court, upon a claim of confiscation, to make a new valuation upon some different theory in an
effort to sustain a procedure which was fundamentally faulty; it

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Syllabus.

should enjoin the enforcement of the rates. Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39; Chicago, M. &
So. P. Ry Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344. Pp. 674.
679.
7. A state commission sought to value the physical plant and property of a telephone company, for fixing rates, 'without recourse to
a new appraisal and without giving weight to evidence of reproduction cost and accrued depreciation furnished by the company,
by translating the value in dollars, as it had been established in
1923, and cost of subsequent net additions, into an amount of
equivalent purchasing power as of December 31, 1932, by means
of price indices. To this end, it selected sixteen commodity price
indices, prepared to show price trends,-one of them covering as
many as 784 commodities of different kinds and weighted, the.
others less comprehensive-and applied them to the old plant valuation and the costs of additions and the depreciation reserves. As
the results varied widely, the commission weighted the indices,
upon a principle not disclosed, and derived a "fair value index."
This being similarly applied, yielded a figure which, with an addition for working capital, the commission adopted as its rate base.
In some of the price indices prepared and used by the commission,
price increases during 1930-1932 were disregarded. In the period
covered, the piice trend was ascending from 1923 to 1929. It then
suffered a precipitate decline so that at December, 1932, the date
of the commission's valuation, it was at the nadir. Subsequently
it made a sharp recovery. By November 28, 1933, the date when
the commission made its final report and rate-fixing order, it had
risen (according to the all-commodities index of the United States
Department of Labor) more than 13% over the price level of
December 31, 1932. For this reason, the commission made an
additional allowance of income to the company; but, judged by
the same index, this was absorbed by continued rise of prices in
1934 and 1935. What the commission in effect did was to take the
temporary low price level of December, 1932, and apply it for the
indefinite future in ascertaining the so-called fair value of the
company's plant and property.
Held that the method of valuation was inapt and improper and
that the order fixing rates is repugnant to due process of law.
Pp. 666, 668.
8. In appraising the property of a public utility company, the use of
price indices to obtain the present value of specific property, separating from other sorts each kind of property so treated, .and thus
using the relation of values of specific articles as of two given dates,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

is quite distinct from the application of general commodity indices
to a conglomerate of assets constituting the 4iitire plant. P. 677.
9. Objection by a public utility company to a valuation of its property by the use of commodity price indices, is not met by the fact
that in an earlier suit between the same parties the court used such
an index for that purpose. P. 677.
10. An appraisal by the court of the property of a public utility
company at book cost less depreciation reserve, held in the circumstances of the case, arbitrary and erroneous. P. 678.
11. In a period of low prices, costs incurred when the price level
was much higher are not a safe guide in appraising present value.
P. 678.
7 F. Supp. 214, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, which, at the suit of the Telephone Company, enjoined the members of the Maryland Public Service Commission from enforcing an order purporting to fix the
company's rates.
Messrs. Richard F. Cleveland and John Henry Lewin,
with whom Mr. Herman M. Moser was on the brief, for
appellants.
Mr. Charles McHenry Howard, with whom Messrs.
Raymond S. Williams, R. A. Van Orsdel, T. Baxter Milne,
C. M. Bracelen, and John H. Ray were on the brief, for
appellee.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Randolph Barton, Jr.,
and Forrest Bramble filed a brief on behalf of the Retail
Merchants Association of Baltimore, as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE RoBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Early in 1933 the Public Service Commission of Maryland undertook an investigation of the rates and charges
of the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of
Baltimore, and after extended hearings entered an order

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Opinion of the Court.

November 28, 1933, directing the company to put into
effect January 1, 1934, reductions in its rates, sufficient
to diminish annual net income by $1,000,000. The company filed a bill in the District Court for temporary and
final injunction; the application for interlocutory relief
was heaid by a court of three judges. A stipulation was
made that the cause should be treated as upon final hearing and a decree was entered enjoining enforcement of the
order.1 This.appeal challenges the court's action.
The Commission determined the value of the property
at December 31, 1932, as $32,621,190; estimated the net
revenue for 1934 at $3,353,793; allowed for reasonable return 6% on value,-$i,957,271,-which the estimated revenue would exceed by $1,396,522. In view of the rise of
the general price level during 1933, however, the Commission required a reduction of but $1,000,000. In computing net income the Commission accepted all the
company's figures for current expense, except the annual
allowance for depreciation; the amount claimed on this
head being $2,173,000, and the sum allowed $1,720,724.
The company insisted on a 7/2 per cent. return.
The controversy in the District Court revolved around
three matters-value, annual depreciation expense, and
rate of return. The court found the value of the property to be $39,541,921, the necessary depreciation expense
$2,000,000, the probable net return under the Commission's order $1,742,005, or at the rate of 4 per cent.,
as against 6 per cent., which the court held was the limit
below which the return could not be reduced without
confiscation.2
All of the figures stated embrace both intrastate and
interstate business, but the parties stipulated that in respect of value, expense and income, the former repre'Chesapeake & Potomac Telephoize Co. v. West, 7 F. Supp. 214.
'The Commission also allowed a return of 6 per cent. upon the
value of the property as determined by it.

666

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

sented 85 per cent. and the latter 15 per cent. of the total.
As the Commission dealt with the property as a whole,
the parties, their witnesses and the District Court found
it convenient to do so, having in mind the fact that in the
final result only 85 per cent. of the amounts involved reflected intrastate business and the Commission's order
must be limited accordingly. For similar reasons, and
with a similar reservation, we shall pursue the same
course. For the purposes of this proceeding the Commission's order, therefore, is to be &nsidered as requiring a diminution of income from intrastate operations
by $850,000, rather than $1,000,000.
In 1916 the Commission valued the property and prescribed rates. In 1923 the company applied for an increase; the Commission after a hearing fixed value at approximately book cost, and refused to permit the rates
to be raised. The District Court, pursuant to a bill filed
by the company, found the actual value exceeded book
value by some $6,000,000, and enjoined the Commission
from enforcing the current rates
The Commission
acquiesced in the decision and passed an order adopting
the court's finding of value and establishing new rates.
So matters stood until the initiation of the present
investigation.
The company's books accurately show installations and
retirements of plant and from them historical cost is
ascertained to be $50,025,278 as of December 31, 1933,
wjth a depreciation reserve of $11,483,357. The Commission made no appraisal of the physical plant and property, but attempted to determine present value by translating the dollar value of the plant as it was found by the
District Court in the earlier case at December 31, 1923,
plus net additions in dollar value in each subsequent year,
into an equivalent of dollar value at December 31, 1932.
' Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. v. Whitman, 3 F. (2d) 938,
943, 953.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.6
662

667

Opinion of the Court.

Its theory was this: Value signifies in rate regulation the
investment in dollars on which a utility is entitled to earn.
The dollars when invested were free units of exchange
value having an earning significance then and now only
because they are such units of exchange. When invested
they represented in the plant so many poles, miles of
wires, and other items of equipment; on the other hand
the same dollar units then represented certain uantities
of government bonds, apartment houses, automobiles,
food and services, etc. The dollars invested in the company's plant had no value unless they were exchangeable
for other requirements and desires of the stockholders,
and the corresponding requirements and desires of all
persons who use the dollar as a measure of value. Thus
a regulating body, in finding value, must find a number
of universal units of earning power and purchasing
power; that is, exihangeable dollars invested in place of
present exchangeable dollars. How shall the relation be
ascertained?
The Commission thought it found the answer in com-*
modity indices, prepared to show price trends. It selected sixteen of these, one covering as many as 784 commodities, falling into different classes, and weighted for
averaging; others-much less comprehensive; and its witness calculated by the use of each index the reduction in
value of the company's assets considered as a conglomerate mass of dollar value from 1923, 'or subsequent date
of acquisition, to 1932. As might be expected the results
varied widely. The lowest value found by the use of any
index was $24,983,624; the highest $36,056,408--48 per
cent. higher. The Commission then weighted these sixteen indices upon a principle not disclosed, giving them
weights of from one to four, and thus got a divisor of
thirty-one for the total obtained by adding the weighted
results of all. This gave what the -Commission styled its
"fair value index," which it applied to the 1923 value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the"Court.

295 U. S.

the property then owned and to cost of all net additions
in subsequent years, to obtain value as of 1932. The result, after adding some $660,000 for working capital, was a
rate base of $32,621,190. The company submitted proof
of estimated reproduction cost and accrued depreciation.
The Commission examined and criticized this evidence,
but none was offered in opposition, and the valuation was
based squarely on the figures obtained by the use of its
index.
-In the District Court the company offered evidence of
histoiical cost and estimates of reproduction cost less depreciation; the Commission relied solely upon the figure
resulting from trending the dollar value of plant owned in
1923 and cost of net additions subsequently made. The
court held the indices used inappropriate for determihing
present value and discarded them. It purported to consider both book cost and reproduction cost; but, in fact,
as plainly appears from the opinion,' derived present value
by the use of two figures only,-book cost as at December
31, 1933 ($50,025,278) less the entire depreciation reserve
shown by the books ($11,483,357),-and thus fixed value
at $38,541,921. To this is added $1,000,000, for working
capital (instead of $660,000 allowed by the Commission),
giving a rate base of $39,541,921. Annual depreciation expense was raised from $1,352,284 as determined by the
Commissioxf to $2,000,000. The appellants charge that in
all these respects the court's action was arbitrary and
cannot stand. We are not satisfied with the methods
pursued either by the court or the Commission.
First. The Commission took the value of the physical
plant in 1923 (exclusive of the then depreciation reserve),
$35,147,912, and trended it to $23,689,693 as of 1932. It
took annual net additions to plant (exclusive of depreciation reserves) and similarly trended them. This gave
7 F. Supp. 219, 222, 228.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

plant value exclusive of the plant represented in the depreciation reserve. It took the depreciationreserve as at
1923 (invested in plant) and the yearly net additions to
the reserve and trended each figure to 1932 value. In
this way it reduced the book reserve which, at cost, stood
at $10,405,147, to $7,318,086, and deducted the latter from
total plant value. A table found in the Commission's
report showing the operation in detail is copied in the
margin.'
This method is inappropriate for obtaii.ing the value of
a going telephone plant. An obvious objection is that the
indices which are its basis were not prepared as an aid to
the appraisal of property. They were intended merely to
5

The table is as follows:
ant va,

Dec

_________________________________3_1,_9__2

Value found by Court, as of Dec. 31, 1923 ...............
Lea Working Capital ------------------------------------

$3, 12912
975,000

Amount to be trended from Dec. 31,1923 ..............

$35,147,912
3,199,648
3,493,429
4,098,230
2,837,050
1,854,046
2,205,132
2,733,68
1,459,483
421,708

".7-

AAlf

n.

101A
1O',A

1929

-----------------------------------

1930 ....................................

m .^.
&
-

--

- ------------------------------

-

---

Deprecfczion Remv
Court's Value-Dec. 31,1923 .............................
Net Additlons, 1924 ......................................
I=19 --------------------------------

1-1l----

.

$6,614,963
(3, 556)
20,429
547.335
804,711
658,770
823,816

67.4
66.2
68.4
1908.................................
70.0
72.6
I=-92 ------------------------------192..................................
71.8
1929 -------------------------------------72.7
1930 ----------------------------77.6
229,100
8&.4
1931 .....................................
342,733
100.0
1932 .......................................

AOL=--------------------------------

lqP

(Continued on next pa, e.)

%W, 1W~

$23,68M,693
2,1,M%160
2,389,505
2,S,781
2, 059,6
1,331,206
1, 8o,131
2,121, 559
1,260,993
421,708
$39,928,413

$4,4K8,495
(2,425)
137,093
383,135
5 24,220
47 ,997
5,914
144,9
197,942
342,733
$7,318, 086

670

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
295 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

indicate price trends. Indeed the record shows that one
index used by the Commission and given a weight of 3,that of the Interstate Commerce Commission,--bears a
notation that it should not be used "in the determination
of unit reproduction costs" upon individual properties.
Doubtless the authors of the other indices would have
issued a similar warning, if they had supposed anyone
would attempt such a use.
Again, the wide variation of results of the employment
of different indices, already mentioned, impugns their accuracy as implements of appraisal. Sensible of this discrepancy, the Commission attempted a rule of thumb corrective, by weighting the several indices upon a principle
known only to itself, and thus rendered its process of
valuation even more dubious and obscure. The possible
factors of error are increased by the use of some indices
such as that constructed by the Commission's witness
upon Western Electric prices. The evidence is that these
apply to about 25 per cent. of the company's purchases;
that during the period of rising prices, 1924-1929, they
rose more slowly than prices of other commodities and
manufactured articles; that though in 1930 other prices
fell, Western Electric's were raised an average of 10 per
cent. In constructing an index from these prices, the
Depreciated Value of Property, as of December 31, 1932.....................
Add Working Capital ------------------------------------------------------

$3, 610, 327
737, OD6
33,347,327
137,496

Deduct Pleasant Street Property ...........................................

() Indicates Subtraction.

$33,209,831

Rate Base .................................................................

$33,210,0

610,327
Value of Property-December 31,1932, less Working Capital ----------------- $32,
Deduct average increase in Depreciation Reserve less average increase in Fixed
000
7,--0
Capital ........................... .......................................
$31,960,327
Add Allowance for Working Capital ---------------------

..-------------------

0, 883

...... - ----------$32, 621,190
I
Average value of Rate Base for 1933 ---------------------

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Opinion of the Court.

witness disregarded the increase during the period 19301932. The Commission gave the index a weight of 3 and
applied it to all purchases of the company, although con-

fessedly it was applicable to only one-fourth of them.
The established principle is that as the due process
clauses (Amendments V and XIV) safeguard private
property against a taking for public use without just

compensation, neither Nation nor State may require the
use of privately owned property without just compensation. When the property itself is taken. by the exertion

of the power of eminent domain, just compensation is its
value at the time of the taking. So, where by legislation
prescribing rates or charges the use of the property is

taken, just compensation assured by these constitutional

provisions is a reasonable rate of return upon that value.6
To an extent value must be a matter of sound judgment,

involving fact data. To substitute for such factors as
historical cost and cost of reproduction, a "translator"
'Railroad Commission Cases, 116 U. S. 307, 331; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680, 691; Georgia Railroad & Banking Co. v. Smith,
128 U. S. 174, 179; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134

U. S. 418, 458; Reagan v. Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362,
399; Ames v. Union Pac. Ry. Co., 64 Fed. 165, 176; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S. 466, 526, 541-2, 544, 546; San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
National City, 174 U. S. 739, 757; San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 442; Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin C. & I.
Co., 192 U. S. 201, 215; Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S.
1, 13, 18; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 41; Lincoln
Gas Co. v. Lincoln, 223 U. S. 349, 358; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 434, 454; Denver v. Denver Union Water Co., 246 U. S.
178, 190; Houston v. Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., 259 U. S.
318, 324, 325; Bluefield Waterworks Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
262 U. S. 679, 690; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456, 481; Board of Commissioners v. New York Telephone
Co., 271 U. S. 23, 31; Mcardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S.
400, 408-409; United Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234, 249; Smith v.
Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 282 U. S. 133, 149; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287, 305.

672

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

of dollar value obtained by the use of price trend indices,
serves only to confuse the problem and to increase its difficulty, and may well lead to results anything but accurate
and fair. This is not to suggest that price trends are to
be dirgarded; quite the contrary is true. And evidence
of such trends is to-be considered with all other relevant
factors. St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. United States,
279 U. S. 461, 485; Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 291 U. S. 227, 236.
-A more fundamental defect in the Commission's method
is that the result is affected by sudden shifts in price level.
It is true that any just valuation must take into account
changes in the level of prices.' We have therefore held
that where the present value of property devoted to the
public service is in excess of original cost, the utility company is not limited to a return on cost. Conversely, if
the plant has depreciated in value, the public should not
be bound to allow a return measured by investment. Of
course the amount of that investment is to be considered
along with appraisal of the property as presently e:istinj,
in order to arrive at a fair conclusi n as to present value,
for actual cost, reproduction cost and all other elements
affecting value are to be given their proper weight in the
final conclusion.'
But it is to be remembered that such a property as that
here under consideration is a great integrated aggregate of
many and diverse elements; is not primarily intended for
sale in the market, but for devotion to the public use now
and for the indefinite future; and has, so far as its market
value is concerned, no real resemblance to a bushel of
wheat or a ton of iron. While, therefore, the owner of such
a property must assume and may not pass on to the pubT

Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 454; McCardle v. Indianapolis
Water Co., supra, 410; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission,
eupra, 311.
SLos Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, supra,-306.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

673

Opinion of the Court.

lie the risk involved in a general decline in values, and
may have the advantage also of a general rise in such
values, it would not only be unfair but impracticable to
adjust the value and the consequent rate of return to sudden fluctuations in the price level. For in its essence this
is the sort of aggregate whose value is not fairly or accurately reflected by such abrupt alterations in the market.
A public service corporation ought not, therefore, in a rate
proceeding, to be permitted to claim to the last dollar an
increased value consequent upon a sudden and precipitate
rise in spot prices of material or labor. - No more ought
the value attributable to its property to be depressed by
a similar sudden decline in the price level. The present
case affords an excellent exaniple. As shown by the Commission's exhibits, the price trend was gradually ascending from 1923 to 1929. It then suffered a precipitate decline so that at December, 1932; the date of the Commission's valuation, it was at the nadir. Since then it has
made a sharp recovery. The Commission recognized this.
Its report and order were made November 28, 1933. At
that time the price level, as shown by the all-commodities
index of the United States Department of Labor, had
risen 13.1 per cent. over that of December 31, 1932. For
this reason the Commission, instead of cutting the net income of the company $1,396,000, allowed what has been
called a "spread" or "cushion" of $396,000, by ordering
a reduction of $1,000,000. The price level has since continued to rise. By the application of the same index a
valuation would have been obtained 'at December 31,
1934, of $38,390,922, and at February, 1935 of $39,691,038, or more than $1,000,000 greater than the amount fixed
by the court as of December 31, 1933. It thus appears
that the so-called spread or cushion has already been absorbed if judgment is to be based on rapid rise in spot
commodity prices. What the Conimission in effect did
was to take the temporary low level of December, 1932,

674

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

and apply this low level for the indefinite future in ascertaining the so-called fair value of the company's plant and
property. The experience of the two years which have
elapsed since the Commission's order clearly indicates the
impropriety'of the use of its method in the appraisal of
a property such as that of this company.
We agree, therefore, with the view of the District Court,
that the method was inapt and improper, is not calculated
to obtain a fair or accurate result, and should not be employed in the valuation of utility plants for rate making
purpbses. As that court observed, it is not the function
of a tribunal inquiring into the question of confiscation to
set aside the legislative finding for mere errors of procedure. The duty of a court is merely to ascertain whether
the legislative process has resulted in confiscation. In
Los Angeles Gas & Electric Corp.v. Railroad CommissiorA,
supra, this Court said:
"The legislative discretion implied in the rate making
power necessarily extendsto the entire legislative process,
embracing the method used in reaching the legislative
determination as well as that determination itself. We
are not concerned with either, so long as constitutional
limitations are not transgressed. When the legislative
method is disclosed, it may have a definite bearing upon
the validity of the result reached, but the judicial function does not go beyond the decision of the constitutional
question. That question is whether the rates as fixed are
confiscatory." (p. 304.)
The language was used in respect of the claim that
values of various elements had been ignored by the Commission. It was found, however, that though error might
have been committed in respect of the items specified,
other allowances neutralized the possible error. See, also,
Dayton, P. & L. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Opinion of the Court.

290, 306. Nothing said in either of these cases justifies
the claim that this court has departed from the principles
announced in earlier cases as to the value upon which a
utility is entitled to earn a reasonable return or the character of evidence relevant to that issue. It is apparent
from what has been said that here the entire- method of
the Commission was erroneous and its use necessarily involved unjust and inaccurate results. In-such a case it is
not the function of a court, upon a claim of confiscation,
to make a new valuation upon some different theory in
an effort to sustain a procedure which is fundamentally
faulty.
The principle applicable in circumstances such as this
record discloses was announced in Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Department of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39. There
a state commission set out to"determine rates for intrastate transportation of logs in carloads. The carriers introduced eviderice that existing rates did not yield any
return on the property employed or defray the operating
costs of the traffic and its proportionate taxes. The commission, without introducing evidencQ in contradiction of
the proof submitted by the carriers as to actual operating
costs, entered an order lowering the rates on the basis of
a composite figure obtained largely from data in the reports submitted by the carriers and their exhibits in the
proceeding, representing the weighted average operating
cost per thousand gross-ton-miles of all revenue freight
transported on the carriers' systems, including main line
and branch line freight, interstate and intrastate, carload
and less than carload. The supreme court of the State
sustained the order, and this court reversed, holding that
the error in the method pursued was fundamental and
amounted to a denial of due process. It was said (p. 43):
'(A precise issue was the cost on each railroad of transporting logs in -carload lots in western Washington, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

average haul on each system being not more than 32 miles.
In using the above composite figure in the determination
of this issue the Department necessarily ignored, in the
first place, the differences in the average unit cost on the
several systems; and then the differences on each in the
cost incident to the different classes of traffic and articles
of merchandise, and to the widely varying conditions under
which the transportation is conducted. In this unit cost
figure no account is taken of the differences in unit cost
dependent, among other things, upon differences in the
length of haul; in the character of the commodity; in the
configuration of the country; in the density of the traffic;
in the daily loaded car movement; in the extent of the
empty car movement; in the nature of the equipment
employed; in the extent to which the equipment is used;
in the expenditures required for its maintenance. Main
line and branch line freight, interstate and intrastate,
car load and less than car load, are counted alike. The
Department's error was fundamental in its nature. The
use of this factor in computing the operating costs of the
log traffic vitiated the whole process of reasoning by which
the Department reached its conclusion.
"... But where rates found by a regulatory body to
be compensatory are attacked as being confiscatory, courts
may enquire into the method by which its conclusion was
reached. An order based upon a finding made without
evidence, The Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 263,
or upon a finding made upon evidence which clearly does
not support it, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union
Pacific R. R., 222 U. S. 541, 547, is an arbitrary act against
which courts afford relief. The error under discussion
was of this character. It was a denial of due process."
To the same effect see Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v.
Public Utilities Comm'n, 274 U S. 344, 351.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.

677

Opinion of the Court.

662

There is a suggestion in the report to the effect that
the Commission's method was agreed to by both parties.9
We find, however, in the District Court's opinion, a statement that the use of index figures was the subject of contest. 0 We think the apparent contradiction is explained
by reference to the record, which discloses the company
used price relation to obtain the present value of certain
property, but separated from other sorts each kind of
property so treated. This is comparable to the practice
of the Interstate Commerce Commission in translating
the value of specific railroad property, e. g., steel rails, by
the use of the differential between the per ton price in
1914, the date of original appraisal, and the price prevailing at a later date.P- In this sense the company employed price indices; but it is plain that such a use of
relation of values of specific articles as of two given dates
is quite distinct from the application of general commodity indices to a conglomerate of assets constituting an
utility plant. Much is made of the fact that in the suit
-brought by the company in 1923 the District Court applied a price index to cost, and thus determined the then
value of the property. But this fact cannot justify the
application of the same procedure here, in the face of the
challenge of its propriety. In the present case the company did not put into evidence any such price indices as
*" Both the Company and the Commission realized that to attempt
to find the present day fair vdlue of the Company's property by the
usual method of taking an inventory of all items of property owned
by the Company and pricing out those items at present day prices
would not only take at least two years of constant work but would
cost the Company not less than 800,000 -and cost the State a very
substantial sum. It was agreed that index numbers should be used
in arriving at present day costs."
107 F. Supp. 233.

Compare St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.
461, 486-7,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

were used by the Commission but on the contrary offered
evidence to show that the use of them as a sole criterion
of value would be improper.
Second. As already stated, the District Court condemned the method pursued by the ,Commission, and
adopted one of its own. This consisted in deducting the
company's depreciation reserve from book cost and adding to the difference an allowance for working capital. It
is true that the court discussed the company's evidence
as to cost of reproduction new, less depreciation, but did
so only to indicate its disapproval of certain large amounts
embodied in the total claimed and to reconcile the figures
with its own estimate. A careful reading of the opinion
leaves no doubt that all other measures of value were discarded in favor of cost less depreciation reserve.
It is clear that in a period of low prices costs incurred
when te price level was much higher are not a safe
guide ih appraising present value. The court so conceded. The depreciation reserve was built up on the
straight line theory. 2 The company asserted that the
amount of the reserve did not represent observed and accrued depreciation at the date of valuation, 3 as much of
the total consisted of funds provided in anticipation of
future depreciation and obsolescence. The court agreed
and further found that on account of decreased demand
.for service, with consequent diminishment of obsolescence,
the percentage of reserve had in recent years sharply increased. The question of going value was the subject of
controversy. The court recognized that this element
must be considered, but refused to make any separate
allowance for it.
"See Lindheimer v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 292 U. S. 151,
167-8.
"Compare Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public Service Comm'n,
supra, 239.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Opinion of the Court.

What the court did in fact was this: It found that book
cost less actual accrued depreciation would probably give
too high a figure. It sought to correct the probable error
by deducting from cost the entire depreciation reserve,
though conceding this exceeded actual depreciation. It
felt that this large deduction would also redress any excess of cost over present value; and finally it said the
result of its method would be appropriate to allow for
going value.
Two quotations from the opinion will illustrate the
basis of the court's action.
"We are not unmindful that at the present time the
depreciation reserve is slightly higher than normal and to
the extent that it is, it is unfavorable to the company in
the final result . . . But this disadvantage to the company is, we think, off-set by allowing it the full of its
actual costs despite the generally lower trend of prices. 4
"All relevant facts considered, we are of the opinion
that a fair allowance for going value is made when we
value the telephone property as a whole and as a going
concern at its actual book costs less full depreciation." "
The opinion in essence consists of the conclusion, that,
all the circumstances considered, it will be fair to appraise
the property at cost less depreciation reserve. This rough
and ready approximation of value is as arbitrary as that
of the Commission, for it is unsupported by findings based
upon evidence.
Third. For the reasons stated we cannot sustain the
District Court's valuation. We have shown that the
Commission's order violates the principle of due process,
as the measure of value adopted is inadmissible. It is not
our function, and was not the function of the court below,
to do the work of the Commission by determining a rate
7 F. Supp. 228.
F. Supp. 226.

157

680

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.

SmN-, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

base upon correct principles. The District Court, upon
finding that the Commission reached its conclusions as to
fair value from data which furnished no legal support,
should have enjoined enforcement of the rate order. The
court's action was therefore right, regardless of the method
it pursued in reaching the decision that the order was
confiscatory.
The grounds upon which we decide the case render it
unnecessary for us to consider the appellants' challenge of
rulings of the District Court respecting working capital
and annual depreciation allowance, or to discuss the rate
of return to which the company is entitled in view of the
agreement of the court and the Commission upon this
point.
The decree is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

STONE,

dissenting.

I think the decree should be reversed.
The suit is in equity, brought in a federal district court
to set aside the legislative action of the State in prescribing telephone rates through the agency of its public service commission. The sole issue raised by the pleadings,
and the only one presented to us and to the court below,
is whether there is confiscation of appellee's property
by reduction of its rates. It is not within the province of
the federal courts to prescribe rates or to revise rates fixed
by state authority, unless property is taken without due
process in violation of the Pourteenth Amendment.
Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264, 271, 272. This Court, in setting
aside the order of the Commission and leaving the old
rates in force, does not pass upon that issue. It does not
hold that the rate fixed by the Commission will confiscate appellee's property, nor does it agree with the
determination of the district court below'that it will.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO
662

SToNE, J., dissenting.

For it is declared that the district court has not followed
the rules sanctioned by this Court for determining the
fair value of the property of a public service company and,
in consequence, its conclusion that there has been confiscation must be rejected. But, notwithstanding the
errors of the district court, this Court upholds its decree.
The order of the Commission is thus set aside, upon a
ground not raised upon the record or considered by the
court below. This is done not because the rate is confiscatory, but because the method by which the Commission
arrived at its conclusion, which is now pronounced "inapt" and "erroneous," is declared to be unconstitutional.
The Fourteenth Amendment is thus said to be infringed,
not because the appellee has been deprived of any substantive right, but because the Commission's action is deemed
a denial of due process in the procedural sense. But not
even the procedure is condemned because it lacks those
essential qualities of fairness and justice which are all the
Fourteenth Amendment has hitherto been supposed to
exact of bodies exercising judicial or quasi-judicial functions. The Commission has punctiliously adhered to a
procedure which acts only after notice and hears before
it condemns. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S. 516, 535,
536; Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, 389-391; cf. Chicago,
M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S. 418, 457;
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & Nashville
R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91. *Thesole transgression, for which
its painstaking work is set at naught, is that, in the exercise of the administrative judgment of this body ."informed by experience" and "appointed by law" to deal
with the very problem now presented, see Illinois Central
R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Conm'n, 206 U. S.441,
454, it has relied .upon a study of the historical cost and
ascertained value of appellee's plant in the light of price
indices, showing declines in prices, in arriving at the present fair value of the property, a procedure on which this

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

Court has hitherto set the seal of its approval, Clark's
FerryBridge Co. v. PublicService Comm'n, 291 U. S. 227,
236; see also St. Louis & O'Fallon Ry. Co. v. United
States, 279 U. S. 461.
In this state of the record it is unnecessary to consider
whether the appellee has sustained the burden placed
upon it of establishing confiscation, or to demonstrate, as
I think may be done, that the facts found by the court
below, and on which it acted, fall fAr short of showing that
appellee's property is in any danger of confiscation. It is
enough to point out that this Court has rejected the conclusions of the district court because it used book value
as a measure of present fair value in times of falling
prices, and that even with its findings of fair value, probable earnings and rate of depreciation, the district court
found that the rate of return would be approximately
41/% on the property of one of the most stable of public
utilities. If adjustment be made for a plainly excessive
depreciation allowance, the rate of return on the court's
figures would be raised to 5.10%.' The company supported its claim of confiscation by no evidence of the cur'The depreciation rate of 4% adopted by the Court in the place of,
the 3.45% allowed by the Commission is so plainly erroneous as to
require its relection. The Commission's conclusion was reached upon
the ground that the abrupt cessation of expansion of the telephone
business had greatly reduced the need for retiring property because
inadequate to care for increased business., The district court conceded that the 1933 allowance at the 4.38% charged by the company
was at least $1,250,000 higher thanl was necessary to maintain the
customary 20% depreciation reserve against plant in service. The
court nevertheless rejected the estimate of the Commission on the
ground that "too much reliance must not be placed upon the expe,rience of a single year." It thus concluded that a federal court may
declare a rate order confiscatory because it differs with the Commission's predictions of future trends in the telephone business. It would
seem hardly within the range of judicial omniscience to establish confiscation by overriding the Commission's determination that the telephone business is not likely markedly to expand in the near future.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

683

SToNE, J., dissenting.

rent yields of comparable investments and by no evidence
of the rate of return generally obtaining in the money
market.2 The general conditions of the 1noney market
and the rate of return on invested capital may have"a controlling influence in determining the issue of confiscation.
Bluefield Water Works Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262
U. S. 679, 693; United Railways v. West, 280 U. S. 234,
249. There is at least grave doubt whether a return of
412% is so out of line with the current yield on invested
capital as to be deemed confiscatory. This doubt, if accepted principles be applied, must be resolved against the
company, which has offered no evidence by which the
doubt could be removed. Twenty-five years ago, in times
far more prosperous than these, this Court unanimously
declined to take judicial notice that an estimated net return of 4% would be confiscatory. Knoxville v. Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 17.
In determining whether the procedure of the Commission involves any denial of federal right, open to review
by collateral attack in the federal courts, it is important
to consider a little more closely the nature of its "error."
In 1925 the fair value of .respondent's property as of 1923
was judicially determined by a federal district court of
three judges, in a suit brought to Let aside the Commission's determination. Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Co. v. Whitman, 3 F. (2d) 938. The Commission had
found the fair value of the property to be $24,350,000,
about $1,500,000 more than net historical cost. The court
'The Commission introduced evidence that in 1932, 53.0% of 296
corporations, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and chosen at
random, suffered a net loss, and that 65.9% earned less than 4% on
their invested capital; 22.9% of the railroads listed on the Exchange
suffered a net loss, and 89.6% earned less than 4% on "their invested
capital. Baltimore savings banks paid 3% in 1933; in Decepaber,
1933, prime commercial paper brought 1 %; call loans averaged
0.94%; United States Treasury Notes averaged 0.29% and Treasury
Bonds 3.62%.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
SOF, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

found the fair value to be $29,500,000, an increase of 21%
over the Commission's valuation and of 29% over cost.
The court arrived at the increase by precisely the same
basic method which the Commission employed in the
present case,8 except that the Commission has applied it
here with far greater care and thoroughness.
With -this history before it the Commission, in its report in the present case states:
"Both the Company and the Commission realized that
to attempt to find the present day fair value of the Company's property by the usual method of taking an inventory of all items of property owned by the Company and
pricing out those items at present day prices would not
only take at least two years of constant work but would
cost the Company not less than $300,000 and cost the
State a very substantial sum. It was agreed that index
numbers should be used in arriving at present day costs."
It is of no importance that the "agreement" to which the
Commission refers was not formally spread upon the record, for the record itself shows that no objection was made
to the introduction in evidence of the price indices offered
both by the Commission and by appellee, and that no effort was made by either party to prove the value of appellee's property by engineers' appraisals of the whole
property, or by estimates of present value based on expert
observation or knowledge of the entire property. By common consent the case was tried before the Commission
on the theory that present fair value for rate making purposes, could be arrived at with substantial accuracy by the
application of price indices to the 1923 value as it had been
jud-1cially ascertained, and to the cost of subsequent an' While not undertaling to declare the method universally applicable, it increased historical cost by an amount corresponding to the
changes in the index of wholesale prices prepared by the Bureau of
tabor Statistics.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

685

STmzw J., dissenting.

nual additions to the property after deducting accrued
depreciation.
The Commission did not adopt any single index. It
prepared its own index for translating book value into
present fair value, on the basis of an elaborate study of
price indices of recognized merit.' The result of this
study it adopted and applied as more trustworthy than
the index prepared by appellee, the salient features of
which will presently be considered.
' Sixteen price indices were used by the Commission- Five of them
related to commodity prices, and included the comprehensive and
reliable index of wholesale prices prepared by the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. Five indices of construction costs were included, prepared by trade journals and concerns allied with the construction industry. Two indices of the price of building materials
were used. An index of general consumers' purchasing power, iiued
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, was added. A painstakingly prepared index of Baltimore wages-was included in order to
insure adequate representation of labor costs. To guard against any
peculiarity in the price trends of telephone property, two, specialized
indices were also taken into consideration. One was the Interstate
Commerce Commission index of telephone and telegraph property
owned by railroads. That the Interstate Commerce Commission
stated that "the indices represent territorial index factors and are
not applicable for use in the determination of unit reproduction costs
upon individual roads" does not lessen the value of the index as one
element of the valuation or as a check on the results xeached~by other
indices. Finally, an index based upon Western Electric prices for
telephone equipment and apparatus was used (after elimination of a
price rise in 1930, found by the Commission to be artificial). This
index is incontrovertibly applicable to 25% of the company property.
It is not to be wholly rejected because it is not a perfect and a certain
measure of the whole property.
These results were averaged. Since some of the indices were more
accurate than others, and since some were more directly applicable to
telephone property, they were assigned greater weights. It is clear
that these were the considerations which influenced the Commission's
judgment as to the appropriate weighting. For example, the Bureau
of Labor Statistics wholesale price index received a weight of four;

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STox,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

The Cdmmission did not refuse to receive or to consider
any of the evidence presented. Its decision and order
were based upon an examination, commendable for thoroughness and skill, of all the evidence. Its error, if error
there was, did not consist in receiving and considering the
evidence submitted of indices showing changes in commodity and other prices. It would have been error for
the Commission not to have considered it. In St. Louis
& O'FallonRy. Co. v. United States, supra, this Court set
aside a recapture order of the Interstate Commerce Commission on the, sole ground that the Commission had failed
to consider evidence before it tending to show that the
reproduction cost of the structural property of the railroad
was greater than original cost. The only evidence of this
character disclosed by the record consisted of index figures
showing the comparative price levels of labor and materials for 1914 and each of the subsequent recapture years.'
The valuation of the property by the Commission was set
aside by this Court on the ground that the Commission
the Interstate Commerce Commission index of telephone and telegraph property and the index based on Western Electric prices each
received a weight of three; all the other indices were given a weight
of one to two. The results of the highest and lowest of the indices
differed from the Commission average only by 10.6% and 23A%
respectively. Eleven of the sixteen indices separately considered gave
results ranging between $30,000,000 and $34,600,000. There is plainly
a rather close clustering about the average of $32,610,327 found by
the Commission.
'Of the twenty-four structural property accounts of the O'Fallon
Railroad, seventeen were trended from 1914 prices by the use of the
wholesale price index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, one by the
National Industrial Conference Board's index of average hourly earnings on railways, and four by the use of an index 6f railway equipment prepared by the "President's Conference Committee of Federal
Valuation," and two were continued at cost. None of the accounts
was adjusted to current price levels by direct estimates or by direct
pricing of the equipment, much of which was equipment purchased
second-hand and long in service.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

STONE,

687

J., dissenting.

had failed to consider the evidence of increased value over
cost. In- Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, supra, 236, this Court held that the 'Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, in sustaining the action of a state
commission, rightly rejected engineers' appraisals and
estimates of value, in favor of a lower valuation -by the
Commission based on cost and a'study of charts showing
the price trends of labor and materials from 1924 to 1930
iAclusive. In affirming the judgment of the state court,
this Court expressly approved this method of arriving at
fair value, although it was less meticulously and carefully
applied than by the Commission in this case, and held that
the evidence of cost and of-price trends, of the same char-,
acter as those on which the Commission acted here, .outweighed engineering appraisals of the whole property,
which the appellee here did not choose to offer.
The extent of the Commission's error thus appears to be
that in considering all the evidence before it, in the manner approved by the Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. case, supra,
it thought that the 1923 value of the appellee's plant and
equipment, and actual cost of subsequent additions, reasonably adjusted so as to conform to generally recognized
changes in the prices of labor and materials, as shown
by reliable price indices, would afford a better. guide to
present fair value than the evidence offered by the company. The results thus obtained were checked against
current wage scales in construction industries in Baltimore and vicinity; and against the prices of specific commodities entering into the construction of telephone
equipment. The company's evidence consisted of its
own price, index, derived by appraising samples of its
property, ranging from 1% to 20% of the total property
of each type, and assuming similar appraisals for each intervening year since 1923. Its index was based in substantial part on monopoly prices charged appellee for
equipment purchased from its affiliate, the Western Elec-

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONv,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

trie Company, which is subject to the same corporate con-

trol as appellee, and on its own labor costs for construction work as shown by its books at a time when it was
engaged in no important construction. The Western
Electric Company is shown to have increased its prices of
equipment 10.2% in November, 1930, at the very time
when prices of commodities and similar manufactures
were declining. This increase is reflected in the index
used by the company. Upon all the evidence, the Commission concluded that appellee did not sustain the burden resting on it, see Western DistributingCo. v. Public
Service Comm'n, 285 U. S. 119, 124; Smith v. Illinois Bell
Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133, 153; Dayton Power &
Light Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290, 308,
of showing the reasonableness of the prices paid by it to
its affiliate. The labor costs of the small amount of construction work carried on by the company were shown
to be materially higher than those prevailing in the construction trades in Baltimore and vicinity. In 1930 (the
date chosen by the company) they were about 147% of
their 1923 level, while in Ddcember,, 1932, (the valuation date) Baltimore wages generally were about 87%
of that level.. It is unnecessary to discuss other defects
*of 4ppellee's proof so extreme as to discredit it.6 Its reliance here upon its own proof is at most perfunctory. It
seeks only to sustain the conclusions of the court below,
which this Court rejects.
Public utility commissions, like other quasi-judicial and
judicial bodies, must try cases on the evidence before them.
'In appellee's proof overhead during consurdfion cost was estimated at 19% 'f the "directly distributed cost." Accrued depreciation was based on physical impairment rather than reduction in value
and the element of obsolescence was ignored. "Going value"
amounting to 10.7% of the swollen valuation thus obtained was -added,
with no showing of necessity of any additional or independent allowance for going value.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

Sroft, J., dissenting.

No basis has been suggested for declaring that the work
of the Commission must be rejected because of its reliance upon evidence which it was bound to con'ider, unless we are also prepared to say that its result was wrong.
If we are unable on any ground to find that confiscation
will occur, I cannot say that actual cost or ascertained
value of the structural equipment of the telephone company, trended in accordance with reliable price indices, is
any less trustworthy evidence of present fair value than
the more customary engineers' appraisals and estimates,
which appellee did not think it worth while to offer, or
that, in any case, such a determination infringes any constitutional immunity.
In assuming the task of determining judicially the pres,ent fair replacement value of the vast properties of public
utilities, courts have been projected into the most speculative undertaking imposed upon them in the entire history of English jurisprudence. Precluded from consideration. of the unregulated earning capacity of the utility,
they must find the present theoretical value of a complex
property, built up by gradual accretions through long periods of years. Such a property has no market value, because there is no market in which it is bought and sold.
Market value would not be acceptable, in any event, because it would plainly be determined by estimates of
future regulated earnings. Estimates of its value, including the items of" overheads" and "going concern value,"
cannot be tested by any actual sale or by the actual present cost of constructingand assembling the property under
competitive conditions. Public utility properties are not
thus created full fledged at a single stroke. If it were to
be presently rebuilt in its entirety, in all probability it
would not be constructed in its present form. When we
arrive at a theoretical value based upon such uncertain
and fugitive data we gain at best only an illusory certainty. No court can evolve from its inner consciousness

690

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

the answer to the question whether the illusion of certainty will invariably be better supported by a study of
the actual cost of the property adjusted to price trends,
or by a study of the estimates of engineers based upon data
which never have existed and never will. The value of
such a study is a question of fact in each case, to be ascertained like any other in the light of the record, and with
some regard to the expert knowledge and experience of the
Commission which, in the present case, are obviously
great.
It is said that the price indices "were not prepared as
an aid to the appraisal of property," that " they were.
intended merely to indicate price trends," a suggestion
that seems to assume that known price trends are irrelevant to the determination of the present fair value of property whose co~t is known. It is also said that the "wide
variation of results of the employment of different indices
. . . impugns their accuracy as implements of appraisal."
The use of a single price index to the exclusion of all
others, it is true, might well produce as inaccurate a result
as if a single engineer's estimate were used to the exclusion of all others, and without test of its verity. But the
record affords striking evidence of the accuracy of the composite index translators prepared and used by the Commission, quite apart from the relatively close agreement in
the results obtained by the individual indices. From 1923
until 1930, when the Western Electric Company raised its
prices, the Commission's index translator accurately reflected the changes in price actually paid by appellee for
its purchased equipment, and the Commission and company indices were in close conformity. Eliminating these
price changes and the excessive labor costs appearing in
the company's own index, the resulting present fair value
of appellee's equipment did not differ substantially from
the Commission's valuation of it. So far as the results
of the use of standard price indices'are impugned by their
variation, an examination of the present record will dis-

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
S662

STONE, J., dissenting.

close that the results obtained by the application of price
indices to the historical cost of plant are far less variable
than engineers' valuations and in general are probably
more trustworthy.' To speak of either class of evidence
as so accurate as to require a commission as a matter of
law to accept it, or so inaccurate as to require the rejection
of a valuation based upon it, is to'attribute to the valua'The lowest result obtained by the Commission in the use of the
sixteen classes of price indices was 76.6% of the Commission's valuation. The highest was 110.6%. Against these differences of only
23.4% and 10.6%, the record shows that in rate cases before the
Maryland Public Service Commission, the Company valuations based
on engineering appraisals had exceeded the Commission's similar valuations by amounts ranging from 25.0% to 59.4%. The average was
41.3%. Most of the rate cases reported in the 1931 and 1932 Public
Utility Reports were examined. In the 1931 reports the company
valuations Similarly exceeded commission valuations by amounts
ranging from 2.1% to 71.2%. The average was 28.9%. In the 1932
reports the company valuations exceeded commission valuations by
amounts ranging from 7.7% to 135A%. The average, was 57A%.
An example of the variation in results obtained by4h engineering
appraisal of telephone property is found in the record in New York
Telephone Co. v. Prendergast,36 F. (2d) 54. The minority report of
the Commission on Revision of the New York State Public Service
Commission Law (1930) at page 266, summarizes the different estimates of fair value as of July 1, 1926, as follows:

Valuation

Majority of Commission .................
$366, 915,493
Statutory Court .........................
397,207,925
Minority of Commission .................
405,502,993
Master's report .........................
518, 109,584
Company claim based on Whittemore appraisal ...............................
528,753,738
Company claim based on Stone & Webster
appraisal............................
615,000,000

Increase
over the
Commission
Valuation.

8.2%
10.5%
41.2%
44.1%
67. 1%

The comment of the report, page 265, is that "the variety of conclusions reached in the course of this case is dramatic evidence that
the concept of ' fair value,' as an objective, provable fact is a judicial
myth."

692

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
SToN,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S."

tion process a possibility of accuracy and certainty wholly
fictitious. Present fair value at best is but an estimate.
Historical cost appropriately adjusted by reasonable recognition of price trends appears to be quite as common
sense a method of arrival at a present theoretical value
as any other. For a period of twenty years or more of
rising prices, commissions and courts, including this one,
have regarded price variations as persuasive evidence that
present fair value was more than cost. I see no reason for
concluding that they are of less weight in times of declining prices.
If I am mistaken in this view, it does not follow that
a like error of judgment by a state commission is a violation of the Constitution, and that a federal court can
rightly set aside its order, even though there is no confiscation. It is true that in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Department of Public Works, 268 U. S. 39, this Court,
in holding invalid an order arbitrarily lowering rates
which the only evidence of probative value showed were
already confiscatory, criticized !he method adopted by
the Commission and characterized its action as a denial
of due process. But the Court was careful to point out
(p. 44) that:
"The mere admission by an administrative tribunal
of matter which under the rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings would be deemed incompetent,
United States v. Abilene & Southern Ry., 265 U. S. 274,
288, or mere error in reasoning upon evidence introduced,
does not invalidate an order."
And in Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344, 351, where this Court set aside
the rate fixed by a state commission as confiscatory, the
method of valuation pursued by the commission was
characterized as erroneous an open to review by this
Court, as of course it is when the validity of the result
But in no case hitherto has this
'iRfhe sibiect of inauirv.

WEST v. C. & P. TEL. CO.
662

SoNE, J., dissenting.

Court assumed to set aside a rate fixed by a state commission, not found to be confiscatory, merely for what it
conceived to be an erroneous method of valuation. If
such an error in the deliberations of a state tribunal is
a violation of the Constitution, I khould think that every
error of a state court would present a federal question
reviewable here. It would seem that doubts, if any, as
to the scope of our review of the actioa1 of a state commission in a case like the present, hadcbeen put at rest
by our decision, two terms ago, in Los Angeles Gas. Co. v.
Railroad Commission, 289 U. S. 287. There the Commission made its valuation on the basis of prudent investment, a method repeatedly repudiated by this Court.
It was argued that the erroneous method pursued byr the
Commission vitiated its order, whether confiscatory. or
not. The Court emphatically repudiated that argument,
saying (pp. 304, 305):
"We do not sit as a board of revision, but to enforce
constitutional rights. San Diego Land & Town Co. v.
Jasper,189 U. S. 439, 446. The legislative discretion implied in the rate making power necessarily extends to the
entire legislative process, embracing the method used in
reaching the legislative determination as well as that determination itself. We are not concerned with either, so
long as constitutional limitations are not transgressed.
When the legislative method is disclosed, it may have a
definite bearing upon the validity of the result reached,
but the judicial function does not go beyond the decision
.of the constitutional question. That question -is whether
the rates as fixed are confiscatory. And upon that question the complainant has the burden of proof and the
Court may not interfere with the exercise of the State's
authority unlbss confiscation is clearly established."
Such should be our decision now.
MR. JUSTICE Bwqnms and MR. Jus~ cIE CARwzo join
in this opinion.

