AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXCHANGE BANK.

209

Syllabus.

193

directed to both the stock yards and the carriers, or should
have been directed to the carriers alone.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO jQin

in this opinion.
AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXQHANGE NATIONAL BANK
OF CHICAGO.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT, FIRST DISTRICT, OF
ILLINOISo

No. 661.

Argued April 10, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Rev. Stats., § 5136, as amended, in providing that buying and selling of bonds, notes or debentures, commonly known as investment
securities, by national banks shall be limited to buying and selling
"without recourse," forbids not only the assumption of liability
by technical endorsement of the securities sold but also by any
form of agreement, such as a contract to repurchase them at maturity for the price paid the bank with accrued interest, by which
the bank undertakes to save its purchaser from loss incurred by
reason of his purchase. P. 211.
2. One who buys securities from a national bank accompanied by the
bank's undertaking to repurchase them at maturity for the amount
of the purchase price plus accrued interest, is charged with knowledge of the statutory prohibition against such agreements (R. S.,
§ 5136, as amended) and may neither hold the bank to the forbidden contract by estoppel nor recover the purchase money upon
tender of the securities to the'bank. -P. 213.
3. The opinion of th6 state court whose judgment is brought here for
review does not reveal whether its rejection of the contention that
it is the duty of the bank to make restitution of the purchase price
was rested upon a state ground orits interpretation of R. S., § 5136.
But this Court has jurisdiction to review the determination of the
state court that the bankjs contract to purchase- he securities is
invalid and to determine whether the federal statute precludes
restitution of the purchase money, P. 213.

275 Il. App. 530, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI,

295 U. S.

294 U. S. 703, to review the reversal of a

judgment recovered by the above named petitioner in an
action against a national bank on its agreement to repurchase bonds which it had sold to him, and in general assumpsit for the money paid for them. The Supreme
Court of the State denied leave to appeal.
Mr. Edward C. Higgins, with whom Messrs. Samuel A.
Ettelson and Herbert A. Salzman were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Daniel M. Healy filed a brief on behalf of
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on certiorari to review a determination of the Appellate Court, First District, of the State
of Illinois, that respondent, a .national banking association, has incurred no "liability in consequence of the failure
-to perform its contract with the petitioner, declared by
the court to be invalid because in violation of R. S. § 5136,
as amended February 25, 1927, c. 191, § 2, 44 Stat. 1224,
1226.
On November 1, 1929, petitioner purchased of respondent at par thirty-five $1,000 Mortgage Bonds of- the First
National Company Collateral Trust. Contemporaneously
with the purchase, and as an inducement and part consideration for it, respondent agreed in writing at petitioner's option to repurchase the bonds at maturity, at par
and accrued interest. Petitioner's declaration in several
counts set up, in special assumpsit, respondent's breach of
the express contract to repurchase the bonds, -and, in general assumpsit, the obligation of respondent to return the
sum received for the bonds. Judgment of the trial court
for petitioner on the pleadings, overruling the defense that
the contract was ultra vires and void, was reversed by the
Appellate Court, 275 Ill. App. 530, and the Supreme Court
of the State denied leave to appeal.

AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXCHANGE BANK.
209

211

Opinion of the Court.

Revised Statutes, § 5136, authorizes national banks to
carry on a banking business and defines their powers. By
the amendment of February 25, 1927, a proviso was added
to paragraph (7), reading:
"Provide4d, That the business of buying and selling investment, securities shall hereafter be limited to buying
and selling without recourse *marketable obligations evidencing indebtedness of any person . . . or corporation, in
the form of bonds, notes, and/or debentures, commonly
known as investment securities, . . ." It is the contention of petitioner that respondent's contract to repurchase
the bonds was incidental to its authority to do a banking
business and was not forbidden by the proviso; that inany
case respondent is estopped to set up its invalidity; and
that, even if the contract is held to be invalid, respondent
is bound to make restitution of the purchase price.
1. Petitioner insists that the words of the statute,
"without recourse," must be taken to have only the technical legal significance in which they are used to limit
the liability of an endorser of negotiable paper, as meaning without liability as an endorser or guarantor of the
obligation of a third party, and that respondent did not
assume that form of liability by agreeing to repurchase
the bonds. But when the words are read in their context,
and in the light of the evident purpose of- the proviso, it
is apparent that they were intended to have a broader
meaning and one more consonant with all the different
forms of business to which the proviso'relates.
The evil aimed at is concededly a consequence of either
an endorsement or guaranty by the bank of the paper
which it sells. Both are forms of contingent liability inimical to sound banking and perilous'to the interest of
depositors and the public. But the liability is the same,
in point of substance and of consequences, whether it ensues from technical endorsements of negotiable paper
which the bank has sold, or from any other form of 6on-

.212

OCTOBER TEPM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.'

tract by which the bank assumes the risk of loss which
would otherwise fall on the buyer of securities, or undertakes- to insure to the seller the benefit of an increase in
value of securities which would otherwise accrue to the
bank. See Logan County Ndtional Bank v. Townsend,
39 T.S. 67.
-The proviso was the first express recognition of the authority of national banks to engage in the business of
dealing in securities (see H. R. Report No. 83, p. 3; Sen.
Report No. 473, p. 7, 69th Cong. 1st Sess.), and subjected
the business to the limitation that it must be conducted
without recourse. The limitation is expressly made %pplicable both to buying and selling "marketable obligations evidencing indebtedness in the form of bonds, notes
or debentures." The words, if restricted in their mean.ing to the endorsement or guaranty of negotiable paper,
could have no application to the purchase of such obligations, and normally would have none to the sale of
bonds and debentures, which are usually negotiated without endorsement. A meaning is to be preferred; if reasonably, admissible, which would permit their application,
as the statute prescribes, -to both forms of transactions
and to all the specified classes of securities. Both the
form and pIjrpose of the statute impel the conclusion
that the words were used in a broad and nontechnical
sense, as precluding, at least, any form of arrangement
or agreement in consequence of which the bank is obligated to save the purchaser harinliss from loss incurred
by reason of his purchase. See Knass v. Madison &
Kedzie Bank, 354 Ill. 554; 188 N. E. 836; Hoffman v.
Sears Community Bank, 356 Ill. 598; 191 N. E. 280;
Lyons v. Fitzpatrick,52 La. Annual, 697, 699; 27 So. 110;
Greene v. FirstNational Bank, 172 Minn. 310; 215 N. W.
213.

Responds.ent, by agreeing to repurchase the bonds at the
same price petitioner had paid for them, plus their at.-

AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXCHANGE BANK. 213
209

Opinion of the Court.

crued interest, undertook to save petitioner harmless from
all risk of loss on his purchase, as effectiVely as if it had
endorsed the bonds without restriction or had guaranteed
their payment at maturity. The contract was therefore
one which the statute prohibits and for the breach of
which the law affords no remedy.
2. The petitioner, who was chargeable with-knowledge
of the prohibition of the statute, may not invoke an estoppel to impose a liability which the statute forbids. Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Pottorif,291 U. S. 245, 260; California
Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. 9. 362; Concord First National
Bank v. Hawkins, 174 U. S. 364, 369; First National
Bank v. Converse, 200 U. S. 425, 439, 440; Merchants'
NationalBank v. Wehrmann, 202 U. S. 295, 302.
3. -The state court rejected the contention that it was
the legal duty of respondent to make restitution to petitioner of the purchase price of the bonds which it had
received in consideration of its invalid contract. 'We do
not stop to consider how far the court, as is contended,
based its decision upon procedural. grounds, for it "considered the merits and declared that no right arose upon
an implied assumpsit although respondent had received
the benefit of a contract which was ultra vires and void.
The opinioln does not disclose whether this conclusion
was rested upon the court's interpretation of rules of
state law gove.ning the quasi contractual right to compel
restitution of the purchase price, or upon the court's construction of R. S. § 5136. If our jurisdiction depended
upon its decision of the federal question, the opinion fails
to reveal whether it is the federal or the state question
which was decided, see Lynch v. New York, 293 U. S. 52;
compare Logan County Bank v. Townsend, supra, 72. 73.
But we have jurisdiction of the cause to review the ruling of the state court that the express contract was rendered invalid by the federal statute. While we may not
properly exercise our -jurisdiction to review or set aside'-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934
Opinion of the Court.

-95 U. S.

the state court's application of local law to the quas con-

tractual demand, we may, in the present ambiguous state
of the record, appropriately determine whether the federal
statute precludes recovery of the purchase money. We
think that such is its effect.
The invalidity of the contract was not due to the mere
absence of power in the bank to enter into it, in which
case restitution, not inequitable to the bank or inimical
to the public interest, might be compelled. See Logan
County Bank v. Townsend, supra, 74, 75; Hitchcock v.
Galveston, 96 U. S. 341, 350. The contract is invalid
because it is within the broad sweep of the statute which
by mandatory language sets up definite limits upon the
liability, which may be incurred by a national bank, in
the course of its business of dealing in securities, by confining the business to buying and selling "without recourse." The phrase is brcader than a mere limitation
upon the power to contract, although embracing that limitation. It is a prohibition of liability, whatever its form,
by way of "recourse" growing out of the transaction of
the b'usiness. See Bank of United States v. Owens, 2
Pet.. 527, 537; Brown v. Tarkington, 3 Wall. 377, 381;
Thomas v. Richmond, 12 Wall. 349,356; Continental Wall
Paper Co. v. Voight & Sons Co., 212 U." S. 227, 262.
National banks are public institutions and the purpose
and effect of the statute is to protect their depositors and
stockholders and the public from the hazards of contingent liabilities, attendant upon the assumption by the
bank of the risk of loss by its customers, resulting from
the permitted dealing in securities by the bank. The prohibition would be nullified and the evil sought to be
avoided would persist., if, notwithstanding the illegality
of the contract to repurchase, the buyer, ipon tender of
the bonds, could recover all that he had paid. for them.
Such a construction of the statute is inadmissible.
Affirmed.

