FOX v. GULF REFINING CO.
Per Curiam.
FOX, TAX COMMISSIONER OF WEST VIRGINIA,
v. GULF REFINING CO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA..

No. 70. Argued April 2, 1935.-Decided April 8, 1935.
Where all questions relied on to sustain a judgment appealed from
the District Court were disposed of adversely to appellee while the
appeal was pending by a decision of this Court in another case,
except a question of state law which the District Court had not
decided, the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded to
the District Court for decision of that question.
Reversed.

from a 'decree of the District Court, of three
judges, permanently enjoining enforcement of the West
Virginia Chain Store Taxing Act.
APPEAL

Mr. Homer A. Holt, Attorney General of West Virginia, with whom Messrs. R. Dennis Steed and Wm. Holt
Wooddell, Assistant Attorneys General, were on the brief,
for appellant.
Mr. Arthur Dayton, with whom Mr. Fred 0. Blue was
on the brief, for appellee.
PER CURIAM.

The appellee brought-this suit to restrain the enforcement of the West Virginia Chain Store Act (c.- 36, West
Virginia Acts, 1933), upon the grounds (1) that gasoline
filling stations were not "stores" withi' the"meaning of
the Act; (2) .that, if the Act were interreted to include
such filling stations, it. violated the due process -and equal
protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United State,; and (3) that if the
foregoing questions were resolved against appellee,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

there were certain filling stations, particularly described,
which were not stores "belonging to, operated or controlled" by appellee.
The District Court of three judges (28 U. S. C. 380)
entered a final decree permanently enjoining the enforcement of the Act, and the case comes here on appeal. In
so deciding, the District Court sustained the first of the
above-mentioned contentions of appellee, and also the
second contention with respect to the denial of the equal
protection of the laws, following its decision to the same
effect in Standard Oil Co. v. Fox, 6 F. Supp. 494. That
decision was reversed by this Court. Fox v. Standard
Oil Co., 294 U. S. 8'7. The District Court did not determine the third contention of appellee, as to its relation
to certain gasoline stations, and that is the only question
now sought to be presented to this Court. The judgment
is reversed and the cause is remanded to the District
Court, composed as above stated, -inorder that it may
consider and decide that issue.
Reversed.
STANLEY v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION.
APPEAL'FROM THE SUPREME JUDI.CIAL COURT OF MAINE.
No. 551.

Argued April 3, 1935.-Decided April 15, 1935.

In limiting the use of state highways for intrastate transportation
for hire, the legislature reas6nably may provide that carriers who
have furnished adequate, responsible and continuous service over
a given route from a specified date in the past shall be entitled to
licenses as a matter of right, but that the licensing of those whose
service over the route began later than the date specified shall
depend upon the public convenience and necessity. P. 78.
133 Me.-91; 174 Atl. 93, affirmed.

APEAL from a judgmentoverruling exceptions taken in
the court below for the review of an order of the Public

