AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N.

285

Syllabus.

264

departing from the restraints of the Constitution of the
nation.
With the value of the franchise gone, the public easements in the street, as distinguished from the private ones,

had a worth that was merely nominal, at least for any
showing to the contrary in the pages of this record.

Other objections have been considered without inducing
a conviction that the petitioners have been th6 victims of

any arbitrary rulings.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

The CHiEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
AERO MAYFLOWER

TRANSIT CO. v.

GEORGIA

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 586.

Argued April 4, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A state statute imposing upon private carriers operating motor
vehicles in the business of transporting persons or property for
hire over any public highway in the State an annual license fee
of $25 per vehicle for the maintenance of the highways, held not
unconstitutional in its application to a carrier operating such
vehicles in interstate commerce. P. 289.
2. Imposition of a uniform state license fee of so much for each
vehicle used by private carriers on the state roads does not create
an undue burden upon interstate commerce as applied to an
interstate carrier merely because that carrier has less occasion to
use those roads than local carriers have. One who receives a privilege without limit is not wronged by his own refusal to enjoy it as
freely, as he may. P. 289.
3. A Georgia statute (Ex. Ses., 1931, p. 99) imposing an annual
license tax on private carriers by motor vehicle of $25 per vehicle
using the state highways, the proceeds of which tax are applied
to the upkeep of state highways, does not violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment by exempting:

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

(1) Vehicles engaged in hauling passengers or farm products
between points not having railroad facilities, and not passing
through or beyond municipalities having such facilities, with certain limitations as to the number of the passengers and the quantity of the freight, and
(2) Vehicles engaged exclusively in the transportation of agricultural or dairy products, whether the " vehicle is owned by the
owner or producer of such agricultural or dairy products or not,
so long as the title remains in the producer." P. 290.
Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. 553, distinguished. P. 291.
4. A state legislature has a wide discretion in the classification of
trades and occupations for the purpose of taxation and in the
allowance of exemptions and deductions within reasonable limits.
P. 292.
5. Exemption of private carriers of farm and dairy products from a
tax, though one imposed for highway upkeep, stands on a different
footing from an exemption from a general requirement that private carriers provide bonds to insure the safety of the public on
the highways. P. 293.
6. Upon review of a judgment of a state court sustaining a state
statute against objections based on the Federal Constitution, this
Court will not entertain other objections, not raised in or passed
upon by the state court and which involve doubtful provisions
of the statute which the state court has never considered. P. 294.
179 Ga. 431; 176 S. E. 487, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of the
complaint in a suit to enjoin the Public Service Commissioners, and other officials of-the State of Georgia, from
enforcing an annual tax or fee on motor vehicles.
Messrs. Edgar Watkins, Jr., and Edgar Watkins for

appellant.
Mr. B. D. Murphy, Assistant Attorney General of
Georgia, with whom Mr. M. J. Yeomans, Attorney General, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE CARnozo delivered the opinion of the Court.
The validity of a statute of Georgia under the Commerce Clause (Article I, § 8, clause 3) and the Fourteenth

AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N.
285

287

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment of the Constitution of the United States is
challenged by the appellant, a private carrier for hire ongaged in interstate commerce.
The statute is known as the "Motor-Carrier Act of
1931." Georgia Laws, Ex. Sess. 1931, p. 99. It prescribes
a system of regulation for private carriers for hire. Common carriers are subject to the-provisions of a separate
statute. With exceptions to be stated later, every private
carrier operating. a motor vehicle in the business of transporting persons or property for hire over any public highway in the state must comply with certain conditions.
The carrier must apply for and obtain from the Public
Service Commission a certificate of public convenience and
necessity (§ 4); must give a bond with adequate security
for protection against damage caused by negligence
(§ 7); must pay for the certificate a fee of $35 (§ 17);
and at the same time and annually thereafter must pay a
registration and license fee of $25 (§ 18) for every'vehicle
so operated. The fees when received by the Comptroller
General of the state are to be transmitted to the State
Treasurer who is to keep them-in a separate fund. This
fund is to be subject to the control. of the State Highway
Department and is to be devoted to the maintenance and
repair of the highways of the state.
The exceptions to the foregoing requirements are stated
in § 2. The act does not apply to a business conducted
exclusively within the incorporated limits of any city or
town. Cf. ContinentalBaking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U. S.
352, 366, It does not apply to "cars and trucks hauling
people and farm products exclusively between points not
having railroad facilities, and not passing through or beyond municipalities having railroad facilities, where not
more than seven passengers and/or one and one-half tons
of freight are transported." § 2 (1). It does not apply to
"motor-vehicies engaged exclusively in the transportation
of agricultural and/or dairy products between any of the
following points: farm, market, gin, warehouse, or mill,

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

where the weight of the load does not exceed 10,000
pounds, whether such motor-vehicle is owned by the
owner or producer of such agricultural or dairy products
or not, so long as the title remains in the producer." § 2
(2). Definitions of a "producer" and of "agricultural
products," which are contained in the same subdivision,
are quoted in the margin.* There are other exceptions in
other subdivisions, but they are omitted from this summary, for the attack upon the statute is not aimed at their
provisions.
The appellant, a private carrier for hire, is engaged in
the transportation of household and office furniture between points in Georgia and other states, and is not
within the range of any of the exceptions. It obtained a
certificate of convenience and necessity, and paid the
statutory fee therefor. It gave approved security for the
protection of its customers and the public in the event of
injury through negligence. All this it did before beginning the present suit, and in so doing took out of the ,case
any question as to the validity of the statute in respect
of those conditions. What it is contesting now is the
validity of the requirement that for every motor vehicle
it must pay an annual fee of $25 in order to obtain a
license. Joining as defendants the Georgia Public Service Commission, the members thereof, and the Comptroller General of the state, it brought this suit to restrain
* "... And the word 'producer' shall include a landlord where
the relations of landlord and tenant or landlord and cropper are involved. The phrase 'agricultural products' as used in this Act shall
include fruit, live stock, meats, fertilizer, wood, lumber, cotton, and
naval stores, household goods and supplies transported to farms for
farm purposes, and/or other usual farm and dairy supplies, and including products of grove and/or orchard, and also poultry and eggs,
and also fish and oysters, and all country merchants in rural districts
who handle poultry and farm products in pursuance to their own
business, and not for hire, and timber and/or logs being hauled by
the owner thereof, or his agents and/or employees between forest and
mill or primary place of manufacture."

AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N. 289
285

Opinion of the Court.

interference with its business by the arrest or prosecution
of its drivers or otherwise as a consequence of its refusal
to pay the annual fee. The trial court sustained a demurrer and dismissed the complaint. The Supreme Court of
Georgia affirmed. 179 Ga. 431; 176 S. E. 487. The case
is here upon appeal. Judicial Code § 237; 28 U. S. C.,

§ 344.
First. The statute in imposing an annual license fee for
the maintenance of the highways does not lay an unlawful
burden on interstate commerce.
The fee is moderate in amount; it goes into a fund for
the upkeep of highways which carriers must use in the
doing of their business; it is exacted without hostility to
foreign or interstate transactions, being imposed also upon
domestic vehicles operated in like conditions.
Its validity in this aspect is attested by decisions so
precisely applicable alike in facts and in principle as to
apply a closure to debate. Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554;
Hicklin v. Coney, 290 U. S. 169, 173; Sprout v. S6uth
Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 171; Bradley v. Public Utilities
Comm'n, 289 U. S. 92, 95; Continental Baking Co. v.
Woodring, supra; cf. Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey,
283 U. S. 183.
The appellant urges the objection that its use of roads
in Georgia is less than that by other carriers engaged in
local business, yet they pay the same charge. The fee
is not for the mileage covered by a vehicle. There would
be administrative difficulties in collecting on that basis.
The fee is for the privilege of a use as. extensive as the
carrier wills that it shall be. There is nothing unreasonable or oppressive in a burden so imposed. Cf. Clark v.
Poor, supra; Hicklin v. Coney, supra. One who receives
a privilege without limit is not wronged by his own refusal
to enjoy it as freely as he may.
Second. The exceptions permitted by the statute, in
so far as they are challenged by the appellant, do not
amount to a denial of the equal protection of the laws.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The statute makes an exception, as we have seen, for
the benefit of vehicles engaged in hauling passengers or
farm products between points not having railroad facilities,
and not passing through or beyond municipalities having
such facilities, with certain limitations as to the number of
the passengers and the quantity of the freight. This is
a reasonable exception. Travelers and farmers without
convenient access to a railroad stand in need of other
means of transportation. There might be hardship in adding to their burdens., The wear and tear upon a road is
not likely to be heavy when the haul must begin at a town
without railroad facilities, must end at a like town, and
must not pass through any town which does have them.
Not many carriers for hire will be tempted to do business
in such neighborhoods exclusively. Sproles v. Binford,
286 U. S. 374, 394, supplies an apposite analogy.
Another exception, and one that more than any other
has drawn the appellant's fire, is for the benefit of motor
vehicles engaged exclusively in the transportation of agricultuial or dairy products, whether the " vehicle is owned
by the owner or producer of such agricultural or dairy
products or not, so long as the title remains in the producer." The Supreme Court of Georgia, construing that
provision in this case, has said that the final clause, "so
long as the title remains in the producer," qualifies the
entire exception, as indeed it obviously does. In an earlier
case (Nance v. Harrison,176 Ga. 674; 169 S. E. 22), the
same court, familiar doubtless with local conditions,
pointed out some of the considerations of policy that underlie the statute. The court observed (p. 682) that
"many of the farm products must be brought from remote
sections unaccommodated by the better system of roadsin some cases not even by a public road." This might
make it necessary to offer some inducement to carriers "in
order to insure adequate service in the transportation of
such commodities." The court took notice of a common

AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N.
285

.291

Opinion of the Court.

opinion, "well justified by the facts," that the farm lands
of the state had been "accustomed to bear an undue proportion of the taxes." The effect of the exception would
be to equalize the burden. "Every one knows that as a
general rule a tax of this kind finally reaches the consumer
of the product, or user of the service; and hence an exemption of carriers of such products is to be taken as an exemption of the products themselves, and not of the carrier."
The enumeration of rational bases of distinction was not
put forward as exhaustive. The court expressed the belief
that others could be added.
We think a classification thus designed to ameliorate
the lot of the producers of farm and dairy products is not
an arbitrary preference within the meaning and the condemnation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The plight
of the Georgia farmer has been pictured by the state
court in words already quoted. To free him of fresh
burdens "might seem to a wise statecraft to be a means
whereby to foster agriculture and promote the common
good. The case is very different from Smith v. Cahoon,
283 U. S. 553. There a Florida statute, similar to this
one in many of its provisions, gave relief from its exactions to any transportation company engaged exclusively
in the carriage of agricultural, -horticultural, dairy or
farm products, whether for the producer or .for any one
else. The attack was not directed, as in the case at hand,
to an exemption of a particular. class of carriers upon
rational grounds of policy from the payment of an annual
tax. What was complained of in that case was a release
from the obligation imposed upon carriers in general to
give a bond or insurance policy in promotion of the public
safety. It was with reference to that exemption, not
challenged by the appellant here, that the court condemned the statute. "So far as the statute was designed
to safeguard the public with respect to the use of the
highways, we think that the discrimination it makes be-

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tween private carriers which are relieved of the necessity
of obtaining certificates and giving security, and a carrier such as the appellant, was wholly arbitrary and constituted a violation of the appellant's constitutional
right." 283 U. S. at p. 567; cf. Nance v. Harrison,supra,
at p. 681.
Smith v. Cahoon has been considered in later cases in
this court, and the limits of its holding, clear enough at
the beginning, have been brought -out in sharp relief.
Thus, in Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, supra, at
p. 371, which came here from the State of Kansas, exemption from various forms of regulation, including the payment of a tax, was accorded to "the transportation of
livestock and farm products to market by the owner
thereof or supplies for his own use in his own motor vehicle." The exemption was upheld. Again, in Hicklin
v. Coney, supra, at p. 175, a statute of South Carolina
gave exemption to "farmers or dairymen, hauling dairy
or farm products; or lumber haulers engaged in transporting lumber or logs from the forests to the shipping
points." The exemption was interpreted by the highest
court of the state as limited to cases where the hauling
was irregular or occasional and not as a regular business.
We upheld the statute as thus interpreted though the
effect was to relieve from the filing of a bond.
These cases and others like them (American Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana,.179 U. S. 89) are illustrations of
the familiar doctrine-that a legislature has a wide discretion in the classification of trades and occupations for the
purpose of taxation and in the allowance of exemptions
and deductions within reasonable limits. Bell's Gap R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania,134 U. S. 232; Southwestern Oil Co.v.
Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 125; Brown-FormanCo. v. Kentucky,
217 U. S. 563; 572; Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, 142;
Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146, 159; State Board of

AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N.
285

293

Opinion of the Court.

Tax Comm'rs v. Jackson,'283 U. S. 527. How far it may
relieve a special group of carriers from the filing of a bond
for the safety of the public, may depend on.very different
considerations, as, for instance, the extent or regularity of
the traffic thus excepted. This will vary from state to
state. The excepted carriers in Florida did business, it
seems, "between fixed termini or over a regular route."
Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S. at p. 566. There is nothing in
the present record to advise us as to the extent or regularity
of traffic in farm and dairy products by carriers in Georgia.
Be that as it may, exemption from a tax stands upon a different footing, though the purpose of the tax is the upkeep
of the highway. At such times the legislature may go far
in apportioning and classifying to the end that public
burdens may be distributed in accordance with its own
conception of policy and justice. If its action be not arbitrary, the courts will stand aloof.
We have reserved up to this point the statement of a
final objection to the statute now pressed by the appellant.
The objection is aimed at the definition of agricultural
products, already quoted in this opinion, and especially to
the inclusion of household goods and supplies, and to the
accompanying words of reference to the business of a
country merchant. The clauses in question are awkward
and obscure. Apparently, household goods and supplies
are covered by the exception though ihoving to the farm,
but only then, it seems, iftransported to be used for farm
purposes and in vehicles devoted to farm uses and no
others. Indeed, all the enumerated articles grouped as
agricultural are either products of a farm or incidertal to
its upkeep. Country merchants are exempted when they
"handle pouiltry and farm products in pursuance to their
own business, and not for hire." If the handling here referred to has to do with handling in the course of transportation, the exemption has been stated out of over-abundant

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

caution, for carriage not for hire, whether by country merchants or by others, is without the statute altogether.
We do not attempt to pass upon the meaning of the provisions considered in the foregoing paragraph, or upon
their validity under the Fourteenth Amendment, or upon
the propriety,Aifthey are to any extent invalid, of severing them from other parts of the statute and upholding
what remains. Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286, 290, 291.
Cf. §§ 22 and 29 of the Motor Carrier Act of 1931. No
question as to their me'aning or validity was raised by the
appellant in its petition or complaint. Other clauses of
the statute were quoted and assailed as void. These were
not even mentioned. No question as to the meaning or
validity of these provisions was decided or referred to by
the Supreme Court of Georgia. The opinion of that court
summarizes the allegations of the complaint, and considers
the objections there stated and no others.
This court is a court of review-and limits the exercise
of its jurisdiction in accordance with its function. EdwardHines Trustees v. Martin,268 U. S. 458, 465; Wilson
v. McNamee, 102 U. S. 572; Old JordanMining Co. v. Societg des Mines, 164 U. S. 261, 265; Bass, R. & G., Ltd. v.
State Tax Comm'n, 266 U. S. 271, 284, 285. The need of
forbearance is commanding when thd judgment brought
before us comes from a state court and calls for the construction and application of the provisions of a local statute. In such circumstances we are deprived of an important aid to the wise performance of our duties if we proceed to a decision as to matters undetermined and unheeded in the judgment of the state tribunals. Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 277.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Georgia is accordingly
Affirmed.

