OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

there were certain filling stations, particularly described,
which were not stores "belonging to, operated or controlled" by appellee.
The District Court of three judges (28 U. S. C. 380)
entered a final decree permanently enjoining the enforcement of the Act, and the case comes here on appeal. In
so deciding, the District Court sustained the first of the
above-mentioned contentions of appellee, and also the
second contention with respect to the denial of the equal
protection of the laws, following its decision to the same
effect in Standard Oil Co. v. Fox, 6 F. Supp. 494. That
decision was reversed by this Court. Fox v. Standard
Oil Co., 294 U. S. 8'7. The District Court did not determine the third contention of appellee, as to its relation
to certain gasoline stations, and that is the only question
now sought to be presented to this Court. The judgment
is reversed and the cause is remanded to the District
Court, composed as above stated, -inorder that it may
consider and decide that issue.
Reversed.
STANLEY v. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION.
APPEAL'FROM THE SUPREME JUDI.CIAL COURT OF MAINE.
No. 551.

Argued April 3, 1935.-Decided April 15, 1935.

In limiting the use of state highways for intrastate transportation
for hire, the legislature reas6nably may provide that carriers who
have furnished adequate, responsible and continuous service over
a given route from a specified date in the past shall be entitled to
licenses as a matter of right, but that the licensing of those whose
service over the route began later than the date specified shall
depend upon the public convenience and necessity. P. 78.
133 Me.-91; 174 Atl. 93, affirmed.

APEAL from a judgmentoverruling exceptions taken in
the court below for the review of an order of the Public

STANLEY v. UTILITIES COMM'N.
Per Curiam.

76

Utilities Commission of Maine. The order denied in part
the appellant's application for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing him to operate motor
vehicles as a common carrier, on certain designated high:ways.
Mr. Charles F. King for appellant.
Mr. Clyde R. Chapman for appellee.
Pia CURIAM.

Chapter 259 of the.Public Laws of the State of Maine
of 1933 placed common carriers operating motor vehicles
for the transportation of goods for hire, under the control of the Public Utilities Commission, and required
them to obtain certificates of public convenience and
necessity which, however, were to be granted as a matter
of right in the case of carriers who had provided adequate,
responsible and continuous service since March 1, 1932?
Appellant, John M. Stanley, applied to the Commission for a certificate to enable him to operate as a common
carrier from Portland to Haines Landing in that State.
Upon hearing, the Commission determined that he was
entitled, as a matter of right, to a certificate for operation
between Portland and Lewiston, but not north of the latter point, as it did not appear that he had supplied the
described service north of Lewiston since March 1, 1932.
The Commission found that there were several common
carriers operating over all, or portions, of the route between 'Lewiston and Haines Landing, including those
which were entitled to certificates as a matter, of right, and
denied appellant's application for that part of the route.
Complaining that this determination deprived him of his .
property without due process of law and denied to him
the equal protection of the laws, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, appellant obtained review by the Supreme Court

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
-Syllabus. ,

295 U. S.

of the State, which overruled his exceptions and sustained
the Commission's action. 133 Me. 91; 174 Atl. 93. The
case comes here on appeal.
Appellant's contentions are without merit. No question as to interstate transportation is involved. In safeguarding the use of its highways for intrqstate transportation, carriers for hire may be required to obtain bertificates
of convenience and necessity. Packard v. Banton, 264
U. S. 140, 144; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 264.
In the exercise of this power, the legislature could determine, within reason, as of what period the service of car-"
riers for hire over its highways did not impair their use
or cause congestibn, and require certificates for those
seeking to supply additional transportation for a later
period. The selection of any date would necessarily
establish a distinction between service immediately before
and after; but that, like similar selections of distances,
weights and sizes, would not of itself prove that the choice
was beyond the range of legislative authority. Columbus & Greenville Ry. Co. v. Miller, 283 U. S. 96, 101. 102;
Continental Baking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U. S. 352, 370,
371 1 Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 388, 389. There is
no ground for concluding that the legislature transgressed
the bounds of permissible discretion in this case. The
judgment is
Affirmed.
BERGER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 544.

Argued March 7, 1935.-Decided April 15, 1935.

1. Where an indictment charges a conspiracy -of several persons aid
the conspiracy proved involves only some of them, the variance
is not fatal. P. 81.
2. Where the proof shows two conspiracies, each futing the single
charge in the indictment, and each participated' in by some but

