ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
295

301

Syllabus.

ings under § 74 of the Bankruptcy Act. Section 74 (11
U. S. C. § 202) and the rules applicable thereto have relation to proceedings for the relief of a debtor not a bankrupt who seeks a composition or an extension of his debts.
The present proceeding under § 12 of the act (11 U. S. C.
§ 30) is for a composition by a bankrupt. The general
order was passed in the exercise of the rule-making power,
and was directed to proceedings of a particular class. The
jurisdiction that we now exercise is part of the judicial
function, and is directed to proceedings of a different class.
The one does not control the other. Meek v. Centre
County Banking Co., 268 U. S. 426, 434; West Co. v. Lea,
174)U. S. 590, 599.
We find no merit in the objection that there has been
an omis-ion of parties whose presence is essential to the
exercise of our supervisory jurisdiction.

The decree of the 'Circuit Court of Appeals should be
reversed, and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v. FLOR-

IDI ET A.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT C6 THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 344. Argued January 17, 18, 1935. Reargued March 4, 5,
1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
Higher intrastate rates were substituted for lower intrastate rates
by an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission upon the
ground that the lower ones were so low as to result in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. The order was upheld
* Together with No. 345, Florida et al. v. United States et aL

Appeal from the Distriet-ourt of the United States for the Northern
District of Georgia.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

by a decree of the federal District Court dismissing complaints of
the State and interested shippers, seeking injunctions. This Court
reversed the decree because the order was not supported by proper
findings (282 U. S. 194), whereupon the Commission after reinvestigation made a new order, upon the same ground as before,
which reinstated the higher rates for the future and which, being
supported by adequate findings, was sustained in further litigation (292 U. S. 1). In the interim between the first order and the
decree enjoining its execution the carrier had collected the higher
rates. The State and other plaintiffs in the original suit, applied
to the District Court for a supplementary decree requiring the
carrier to return the excess of such collections over the lower
rates. Held:
1. That the claim of restitution was without equity as to all or
any part of such excess. Pp. 316-317.
2. A cause of action for restitution upon reversal of a judgment
belongs to the class of actions for money bad and received. The
remedy is equitable in origin and function, and the claimant, to
prevail, must show that the money was received in such circumstances that the possessor can not in equity and good conscience
retain it. The question is not whether the law would put the
defendant in possession of the money if the transaction were a new
one, but whether the law will take it out of his possession after
he has been able to collect it. P. 309.
3. Award of restitution after reversal of a judgment is ex gratia,
resting in sound discretion, and will not be ordered where the
justice of the ca-e does not call for it. P. 310.
4. The Interstate Commerce Commission has jurisdiction, exclusive of that of any court, to set aside intrastate rates which discriminate unduly against interstate commerce, but its order is
prospective only and it can not in such case give reparation for
the past. P. 311.
5. The order that first substituted the higher rates in this case
was voidable, not void, and the carrier was not at liberty to disobey it. P. 311.
6. The absence of an equity to restitution in this case is apparent
from the findings of the trial court confirming the reports and findings of the Interstate Commerce Commission whereby it appears
that the lower rates were discriminatory against interstate commerce, and therefore forbidden and declared unlawful under
§ 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act, from the time of

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

303

Statement of the Case.

the Commission's first order, and that the higher rates ordered by
it would have been the only lawful ones through the period in
question, but for a mere slip in procedure. P. 312.
7. The carrier's equity is reinforced by the fact that the lower
rates would be confiscatory, if enforced by the State after suitable
challenge by the carrier. P. 313.
8. Asuming that the carrier's only remedy under the state law
for escaping the lower rates, though they were voluntarily initiated,
was by administrative proceedings, followed, if necessary, by action
in court, it does not follow that their confiscatory character is
not to be considered as bearing on the carrier's equity in this
case. P. 313.
9. In cases of this kind, the tests.of conscience and fair dealing
are the same whether the claim of restitution be based on contract
or on statute. P. 314.
J0. The power of the District Court to compel restitution is ancillary to the power to determine whether the challenged orders of
the Cowmission should be vacated or upheld. P. 314.
11. In the exercise of this ancillary power, the court was not
called upon to lend its aid to a forbidden practice and, in the absence of any equities of the State or the shippers, it should stay
its hand, leaving the parties where it finds them. P. 314.
12. This mere inaction of the, federal court is not an assumption
of the rate-making power nor an encroachment upon the powers of
the State. P. 315.
13. .Restitution in this case is denied in toto, since the determination of the Interstate Commerce Commission, though not res
judicata in respect of past transactions, is entitled to great weight
as evidence of the reasonableness of the rates collected; and the
claimants have failed to prove them unreasonable. P. 317.
Reversed.
*COSS-APPEALS from a decree of the District Court of
three judges requiring the Railroad Company to refund
to shippers (but in part only) moneys collected by it in
excess of the lawful state rates, on intrastate consignments
of lumber. The collections were made under color of an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, sustained
by the District Court, but adjudged -invalid by this Court
on appeal. 282 U. S. 194. See also 292 U. S. 1. After

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

295 U. S.

the case had been argued'at this Term, the Court called
for reargument upon the following questions:
(1) Whether the District Court had jurisdiction to
award restitution or should exercise such jurisdiction in
a case of this character relating to intrastate rates. (2)
If the District Court had such jurisdiction and should.
exercise it in a case of this character relating to the revenue needs of the carrier, what should be the measure of
an award of restitution. And (3) In such an inquiry,
what effect, evidentiary or otherwise, should be attributed
to the proceedings before, and findings of, the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Messrs. Carl H. Davis and Robert C. Alston made the
arguments at both hearings, on behalf of the Atlantic
Coast Line Railroad Company, appellant in No. 344 and
cross-appellee with the United States and the Interstate
Commerce Commission in No. 345. Messrs. W. V. Kay
and Win. Hart Sibley, of counsel for the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad Company, were with them on the briefs.
Mr. Alfred P. Thorn, of counsel for the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad Company, also was on the original brief.
Messrs. C.. G. Ashby and Henry P. Adair argued the
case on the first hearing, for the Brooks-Scanlon Corporation, the Wilson Cypress Company, and the Cummer
Cypress Company, which together with the State of Florida, the Florida Railroad Commission (individually and
for the use and benefit of several shippers), and the Wilson Lumber Company, were appellees in No. 344 and
cross-appellants in No. 345. The rearguinent was made
by Mr. Henry P. Adair and Mr. J. V. Norman, the latter
appearing as counsel for the Wilson Lumber Company.
With Messrs. Ashby, Adair, and Norman on the briefs
were Mr. Cary D. Landis, Attorney General of Florida,
for the State of Florida; Mr. Theodore T. Turnbull, for
the Florida Railroad Commission; and Mr. August 0,

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

305

Opinion of the Court.

Gutheiin, of counsel for the Brooks-Scanlon Corporation,
the Wilson Cypress Company, and the Cummer Cypress
Company.
MR. JUSTICE CARDozo delivered the opinion of theCourt.
Freight charges were collected by a railroad carrier in
accordance with an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission after the refusal of a United States District
Court to declare the order void. Later the decree was reversed by this court without considering the evidence on
the ground that the findings of the Commission were incomplete and inadequate. Florida v. United States, 282
U. S. 194. Still later the Commission upon new evidence
and new findings made the same order it had made before,
this court confirming its action after appropriate proceedings. Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.1. The question
now is whether restitution-is owing from the carrier for
the whole or any part of the rates collected from its customers while the first order was in force. The narrative
must be expanded to bring us to an answer.
For many years, beginning with 1903, the Atlantic Coast
Line Railroad Company or its predecessor maintained a
schedule of charges known as the Ctummer scale for the
transportation of logs in train and carload shipments
within the state of Florida. In its inception this scale was
established by agreement between the railroad company
and one or more companies engaged in the sale of lumber.
Later, in January, 1927, an order was made by the Railroan Commission of Florida whereby voluntary rates then
in force, if not higher than the maximum rates approved
by the Commission, were to be continued in effect as if
officially prescribed. For the purpose of the present controversy we assume that by force of this order, the Cummer scale, even though less thn compensatory, and even

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

though voidable through appropriate action, . ust be
deemed to have been fixed by law for intrastate transactions.
In May, 1926, the Public Service Commission of Georgia filed a complaint against the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Company with the Interstate Commerce Commission, the complaint being directed to the maintenance of
the Cummer scale. In that proceeding the Railroad Commission of Florida intervened, and also important shippers
affected by the challenged schedule. On August 2, 1928,
the Interstate Qommerce Commission made a decision
(146 I. C. C. 717), amended and broadened on February
7, 1929, enjoining the maintenance of the schedule then
in force on the ground (along with others) that the rates
were so low as to result in unjust discrimination against
interstate commerce. To avoid this discrimination a new
schedule was established. Florida and the* intervening
shippers brought suits in a federal district court, made up
of three judges in accordance with the statute (28 U. S. C.
§ 47), to vacate the orders of the Commission and restrain
enforcement. The District Court dismissed the bills. 30
F. (2d) 116; 31 F. (2d) 580. Upon appeal to this court
the decrees were reversed on the ground that the report
of the Commission did not contain the necessary findings.
282 U. S. 194. It was not enough to find that the intrastate rates were unreasonably low. 282 U. S. at p. 214.
It was not enough to state the conclusion that interstate
commerce was unjustly affected. 282 U. S. at p. 213. It
was necessary to find the facts supporting the conclusion,
as, for instance, that the revenues of interstate commerce
would probably be increased if the rates for intrastate
hauls were established at a higher level. "In the absence
of such findings, we are not called upon to examine the
evidence in order to resolve opposing contentions as to
what it shows or to spell out and state such conclusions of
fact as it may permit." 282 U. S. at p. 215. The Coin-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

307

Opinion of the Court.

mission was to be free, however, to consider the facts anew
and file its report in proper form. It " is still at liberty,
acting in accordance with the authority conferred by the
statute, to make such determinations as the situation may
require." The mandate of reversal, giving effect to that
decision, went down from this court on February 19, 1931,
and on March 7, 1931 was filed in the court below.
In the interval between February 8, 1929, the effective
date of the new schedule. and March 7, 1931, the railroad
company had made collections in accordance with the
order of the Commission, discarding the Cummer scale.
Indeed, the Florida Commission, bowing to the authority
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, had made an
order in January, 1929, amended in April of that year,
whereby the Cummer scale was declared to be suspended
so long as the decree of the District Court remained in
effect and unreversed. After the mandate of reversal the
Interstate Commerce Commission listened to new evidence, made a-new set of findings, and prescribed the same
rate that it had put into effect before. 186 I. C. C. 157;
190 I. C. C. 588. The basis of the decision was the unjust
discrimination suffered by interstate commerce through
losses of revenue resulting from the local rates. Once more
the order of the Commission (dated July 5, 1932, but not
effective till February 25, 1933) was assailed by Florida
and by shippers through suits in the District Court. The
bills were dismissed, 4 F. Supp. 477, and this court affirmed. 292 U. S. 1. Both the findings of the Commission
and the evidence back of the findings were now held to be
sufficient.
In the meantime other proceedings had been taken in
the District Court with a view to giving effect more completely to the mandate of reversal. In February and
March, 1931, shippers of lumber, interveners in the earlier suits, petitioned for a decree of restitution to the
extent of the difference between the rates that had been

308

OCTOBER TERM, "1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.'

paid from February 8, 1929, to March 7, 1931, under the
order of the Commission, and the lower rates that would
have been paid if there had been adherence to the Cummer scale. At the same time the State of Florida and its
Railroad Commission petitioned for like relief in behalf of
other shippers and consignees. An answer having been
filed by the railroad company, the District Court appointed
a master to take evidence and report. After intermediate
proceedings which it is unnecessary to summarize, the
master made a final report in March, 1933, recommending a decree of restitution for part but only part
of the overcharges claimed. He found that the Cummer
scale was unjust and noncompensatory, and if enforced
against the will of the carrier would result in confiscation.
*Hefound that for the years in controversy a substituted
rate should be established, and established at such a figure
as would avoid unjust discrimination against interstate
commerce. He found that this end could b1 attained by
the adbption of a schedule higher than the Cummer scale
but lower than the one promulgated by the Commission
as operative thereafter. He advised restitution in the sum
of $99,941.77, which was 34% of the amount ($293,946.38)
demanded by the claimants. The District Court confirmed the report, one judge dissenting. The prevailing
opinion gives expression tq the hesitation of the court in
thus departing from the findings of the federal commission. It observes, however, ihat there would be hardship to shippers and consignees in a sharp and sudden
change of rates directed to a business in which freight
charges are so large a part of the value of the product.
"If the ideal rates be thdse fixed by the Commission, the
ideal might with reason and justice have been approached
less precipitately." The case is here on cross-appeals.
ArkadeIphia Milling Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co., 249 U. S. 134; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United
States, 279 U. S. 781. In No. 344, the appellant is the

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

309

Opinion of the Court.

railroad company, which declares itself aggrieved because
restitution was not denied altogether. In No. 345, the
appellants are the State of Florida and intervening shippers, who declare themselves aggrieved because restitution was not awarded on the basis of the Cummer scale.
Decisions of this court have given recognition to the
rule as one of general application that what has been lost
to a litigant under the compulsion of a judgment shall
be restored thereafter, in the event of a reversal, by the
litigants opposed to him, the beneficiaries of the error.
Arkadelphia Co. v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry., supra;
Northwestern Fuel Co. v. Brock, 139 U. S. 216; Ex parte"
Lincoln Gas & Electric Light Co., 257 U. S. 6; cf. Haebler
v. Myers, 132 N. Y. 363; 30 N. E. 963. Indeed, the concept of compulsion has been extended to cases where the
error of the decree was -one of inaction rather than action,
as where a court has failed to set aside the order of a
commission or other administrative body, the constraint
of the order being imputed in.such circumstances to the
refusal of the court to supply a corrective remedy. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, supra. But the
rule, even though general in its application, is not without
exceptions. A cause of action for restitution is a type
of the broader cause of action for money had and received, a reriedy which is equitable in origin and function. Moses v. Macferlan, 2 Burr. 1005; Bize v. Dickason,
1 Term Rep. 285; Farmer y. Arundel, 2 Wm. Bl. 824;
Kings2 on Bank v. Eltinge, 66 N. Y. 625.* The claimant
to prevail must show that the money was received in
such circumstances that the possessor will give offense to
equity and good conscience if permitted to retain it.
Schank v. Schuchman, 212 N. Y. 352, 358, 359; 106 N. E.
127; Western Assurance Co. v. Towle. 65 Wis. 247; 26
Many cases are assembled in Keener on Quasi-Contracts, pp. 412,
417, and Woodward on Quasi-Contracts, § 2.
*

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

N. W. 104. The question no longer is whether the law
would put him in possession of the money if the transaction were a new one. The question is whether the law
will take it out of his possession after he has been able to
collect'it. Cf. Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution, 18 Wall.
375, 385, 390. The ruling in Western Assurance Co. v.
Towle, supra,gives point to the distinction. The plaintiff
had paid money to the defendant upon a policy of insurance against fire. The payment was procured by false
representations and false swearing as to the extent of the
loss, which, if seasonably discovered, would have worked a
forfeiture of the policy. The court held that in an action
for money had and received, the plaintiff could recover
"so much only as the amount paid exceeded the actual
loss sustained by the insured"; in equity and good conscience the rest might be retained.
Suits for restitution upon the reversal of a judgment
have been subjected to the empire of that principle like
suits for restitution generally. "Restitution is not of mere
right. It is ex gratia, resting in the exercise of a sound
discretion, and the court will not order it where the justice
of the case does not call for it, nor where the process is
set aside for a mere slip." Gould v. McFall, 118 Pa. St.
455, 456; 12 Atl. 336, citing Harger v. Washington
County, 12 Pa. St. 251. There are other decisions to the
same effect. Alden v. Lee, 1 Yeates (Pa.) 207; Green
v. Stone, 1 Har. & J. (Md.) 405; State v. Horton, 70
Neb. 334; 97 N. W. 434; Teasdale v. Stoller, 133 Mo. 645,
652; 34 S. W. 873. "In such cases the simple but comprehensive question is whether the circumstances are such
that equitably the defendant should restore to the plaintiff what he has received." Johnston v. Miller, 31 Gel
& Russ. 83, 87".
We are thus brought to the inquiry whether the rates
under the new schedule were collected in such circumstances as to move a court of equity, finding the proceeds

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

311

Opinion of the Court.

of collection in the possession of the carrier, to help the
shippers and their representatives in getting the money
back.
This court has held that the Interstate Commerce Commission has jurisdiction exclusive of that of any court to
set aside intrastate rates which discriminate unduly
against interstate commerce. Board of Railroad Commissioners v. Great Northern Ry. Co., 281 U. S. 412.
Even so, the substituted schedule is prospective only, and
power has not been granted in such circumstances to give
reparation for the past. 281 U. S. at p. 423; Robinson v.
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 222 U. S. 506, 511. What
was done in this case must be considered in the light of
that established rule. An order declaring the discriinination to be excessive and unjust was made by the Commission before the carrier attempted to collect the higher
charges. Thereafter the order was adjudged void by a
decision of this court (Floridav. United States, 282 U. S.
194; cf. United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 293
U. S. 454, 464; United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P.
R. Co., 294 U. S. 499), but void solely upon the ground that
the facts supporting the conclusion were not embodied in
the findings. Void in such a context is the equivalent of
voidable. Toy Toy v. Hopkins, 212 U. S. 542, 548; Weeks
v. Bridgman,159 U. S. 541,547; Ewell v. Daggs, 108 U. S.
143, 148, 149. The carrier was not at liberty to take the
law into its own hands and refuse submission to the order
without the sanction of a court. It would have exposed
itself to suits and penalties, both criminal and civil, if it
had followed such a path. See, e. g., Interstate Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C., § 16 (8) (9) (10) (11). Obedience
was owing while the order was in force.
By the time that the claim for restitution had been
heard by the master and passed upon by the reviewing
court, the Commission had cured the defects in the form
of its earlier decision. During the years affected by the

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

claim there existed in very truth the unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce that the earlier decision had
attempted to correct. If the processes of the law had been
instantaneous or adequate, the attempt at correction
would not have missed the mark. It was foiled through'
imperfections of form, through slips of procedure (Gould
v. McFall, supra; Alden v. Lee, supra), as the sequel of
events has shown them to be. Unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce, "forbidden" by the statute,
and there "dec l ared to be unlawful," (Interstate Commerce Act) § 13 (4) ; Board of RailroadCommissioners v.
GreatNorthern Ry. Co., supra, at pp. 425, 430; Floridav.
United States, 292 U. S. 1, 5) does not lose its unjust
quality because the evil is without a remedy until the
Commission shall have spoken. The word when it goes
forth invested with the forms of law may fix the consequences to be attributed to the conduct of the carrier in
reliance upon an earlier word, defectively pronounced, but
aimed at the self-same evil, there from the beginning. The
Commission was without power to give reparation for the
injustice of the past, but it was not without power to
inquire whether injustice had been done and to make report accordingly. Indeed, without such an inquiry and
appropriate evidence and findings, its order could not
stand, though directed to the years to come. Obedient to
t
duty, the Commission looked into the past and ascertained the facts. In particular it looked into, the very
years covered by the claims for restitution and found the
inequality and injustice inherent in the Cummer rates
during the years they were in suspense and during those
they were in force. 186 I. C. C. 157, 166, 167, 168, 187.
What it had stated in its first report (146 1. C. C. 717) wasthus supplemepted and confirmed by what it. stated in the
second. The two sets of findings tell us, when read together, that restitution is without support in equity, and

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

313

Opinion of the Court.

conscience, whatever support may come to it from procedural entanglements.
The carrier's position takes on an added equity when
the fact is borne in mind that the charges of the Cumner
schedule are less than compensatory, and would result
in confiscation if enforced by the power of the State after
challenge by the carrier in appropriate proceedings.
What those proceedings are has been a subject of dispute
under the Florida decisions. For many years it was believed that a carrier objecting to a schedule as unreasonably low, might put another into effect without asking
the consent of any one, and justify its conduct later if a
contest should develop. Pensacola& A. R. Co. v. State,
25 Fla. 310; 5 So. 833; Cullen v. Seaboard Air Line R.
Co. 63 Fla. 122; 58 So. 182. The shippers and the state
of Florida contend that by a very recent decision this practice has been ended. Reinschmidt v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 118 Fla. 237; 160 So. 69. The present rule
is said to be that the carrier must resort in the first place
to an administrative remedy before the Railroad Commission of the state, and look to the courts afterwards. If
all this be accepted, the conclusion does not follow that
the confiscatory character of a schedule is not to be considered in determining the equity of the carrier's possession when higher rates have been collected under color
of legal right and consignees or shippers are trying to regain what they have paid. In saying this we do not forget that the Cummer scale of rates was voluntary in origin. Later, by an order of the state commission, it became a scale prescribed by law. Whatever voluntary
quality it then retained must be deemed to have departed
when the carrier made common cause with the critics of
the scale in contesting its validity.
The claim for restitution yields to the impact of these
converging equities with all their cumulative power. It

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

would yield to such an impact though the action to which
it is an incident were triable in a court of law. Moses v.
Macferlan, supra; Schank v. Schuchman, supra. It must
yield more swiftly and surely when the litigants are in a
court of equity. Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution, supra;
Willad.v. Tayloe, 8 Wall. 557; Mississippi & M. R. Co.
v. Cromwell, 9.1 U. S. 643, 645; Deweese v. Reinhard, 165
U. S. 386, 390. The right that equity declines to further
may have its origin in contract. But also, and in typical
instances, it has its origin in statute. Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution,supra. The tests of conscience and-fair
dealing will be the same- in either case. This District
Court whose decree we are reviewing was organized to
pass upon the question whether the challenged order of
the Commission should be vacated or upheld. 28 U. S. C.
§ 47. Whatever power it has to compel restitution by the
carrier of items subsequently collected derives from that
primary jurisdiction and is ancillary thereto. In the exercise of that power it is not required to lend its aid in perpetuating a forbidden practice. Florida has no equity
other than the equities of the consignees and shippers.
The consignees and shippers have no equity that can override a prohibition and a policy declared by act of Congress.
To prevail, the claimants must make out that in the circumstances here developed a fixed and certain duty has
been laid upon a court of equity to make the carrier pay
the -price of the blunders of the commerce board in drawing up its findings. The blunders being now corrected,
the verities of the transaction are revealed as they were
from the beginning. We think the better view is that in
the light of its present knowledge the court will stay its
hand and leave the parties where it finds them.
To this the claimants answer that inaction in such
circumstances is an assumption by the federal court of
legislative powers and an unconstitutional encroachment
upon the powers of a sovereign State. The argument

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

315

Opinion of the Court.

misses the significance of equitable remedies. The federal
court by its inaction does not trench upon any jurisdiction, legislative or judicial, inherent in'
the state of Florida. It does not undertake to say that the rates collected
by the carrier were lawful in the sense that a suit would
lie to recover them if credit had been given to the shipper
and a balance were now unpaid. All that the federal court
does is to announce that it will stand aloof. It inquires
whether anything has happened whereby a court of equity would be moved to impose equitableconditions upon
equitable relief. In the course of that inquiry it perceives that the charges were collected under color of
legal right, in circumstances relieving the carrier of any
stigma of extortion. It discovers through the evidence
submitted to the Commission-and renewed in the present
record that what was charged would have been lawful
as well as fair if there had been no blunders of procedure,
no administrative delays. Learning those things, it s.ys
no more than this, that irrespective of legal rights 'and
remedies it will not intervene affirmatively, in the exercise
of its equitable and discretionary powers, to change the
status quo. This is not usurpation. It is not action
of any kind. It is mere inaction and passivity in line
with the historic attitude of courts of equity for
centuries.
The claimants refer to cases in which this court has
denied the power of the federal judiciary to take upon
itself the functions of a rate-making body, charged with
legislative duties. None of the cases qited controls the
case at hand. A typical illustration is Central Kentucky
Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290 U. S. 264.
Rates prescribed by a state commission for the furnishing
of gas were found by a federal court to be below the line
of compensation. In the face of that finding the decree
refused relief unless th& complainant would consent to
abide by a new schedule established by the court itself.
Upon appeal to this court the condition was annulled.

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

We gave explicit recognition to the power of a court of
equity to subject an equitable remedy to equitable terms.
We held, however, that full protection could be accorded
to seller and consumer if the regulatory Commission were
permitted to discharge its proper function of prescribing
a just schedule after the unlawful one had fallen. "In
the circumstances there was no occasion for the court to
draw upon its extraordinary equity powers to attach any
condition to its decree, and the condition which it did
attach was an unwarranted intrusion upon the powers of
the Commission." 290 U. S. at p. 273.
A very different situation is shown to us here. A complex of colorable right and procedural mistake has brought
about a situation in which the equities of the carrier, if
they are not protected by the court, will be unprotected
altogether. The rates now recognized as just are not a
fabrication of the judges. They have not been fixed by
a court to take effect thereafter. They are the rates prescribed for the future by the appointed administrative
agency, and that on two occasions, after scrutiny and study
of injustice suffered in the past. The court surveys the
years and discerns the same injustice, dominant at the
beginning as well as at the end. Indeed, nowhere in the
record is there a suggestion on the part of any one that
during this long litigation there has been any change of
conditions whereby a discrimination against interstate
commerce illegitimate at one time would be innocent at
another. What was injustice at the date of the second
order of the Commission is shown beyond a doubt to have
been injustice also at the first. A situation so unique is
a summons to a court of equity to mould its plastic remedies in adaptation to the instant need.
The case up to this point has been dealt with on the
assumption that the award upon restitution is to be for
the whole demand or nothing. There is, however, a posas-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

317

Opinion of the Court.

bility between these two extremes, a possibility exemplified in the decree of the court below. The District Court,
following the recommendation of the master, refused a
decree of restitution for the full amount of the difference
between the collections by the carrier and the rates of the
Cummer scale, but did award restitution for 34% of that
difference, or $99,941.77. We think the .claim for restitution should have been rejected altogether. In thus holding we do not suggest that the determination of the Interstate Commerce Commission as to the rates to be operative
thereafter had the force of res judicata in respect of past
transactions. Cf. Arizona Grocery Co. v. Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co., 284 U. S. 370, 389; State CorporationCommission v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S. 561, 569. None the
less, as the court below conceded, it was entitled to great
respect, representing, as it did, the opinion of a body of
experts upon matters within the range of their special
knowledge and experience. Illinois Central R. Co. v. InterstateCommerce Comm'n, 206 U. S. 441, 454; Virginian
Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658, 665. This court
has already held that their findings had support in the
evidence before them. Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.
1, 12.
The present record does not satisfy us that a new scale
should be set up to govern claims for restitution. The
field of inquiry is one in which the search for certainty is
futile. Opinions will differ as to the qualifications of
experts, thi' completeness of their inquiry into operating
costs, the. accuracy of their methods of 'computation, the
soundness of their estimates. There is a zone of reasonableness within Which judgment is at large. Banton v.
Belt Line Ry. Corp., 268 U. S. 413, 422, 423. Only by
accident perhaps would two courts or administrative
bodies draw the line within the zone at precisely the
same points. In a sense, then, it is true that there is

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

support in fairness and reason for each of the two conclusions, the Commission's and the master's. More than
this, however, must be made out to uphold the claims in
suit. The claimants do not sustain the burden that is
theirs by showing that the master set up a reasonable
schedule. They must show that the other schedule, the
one set up by the Commission, is unreasonable. In the
absence of such a showing the carrier does not offend
against equity and conscience in standing on its possession
and keeping what it got.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded with
instructions to dismiss the claims.
Reversed.
MR. JusTICE ROBE-TS, dissenting.
A tariff of rates for intrastate carriage of logs, known
as the "Cummer Scale," was in effect over lines of the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in Florida. The Interstate
Commerce Commission, upon complaint that these rates
unduly discriminated against interstate commerce, held an
investigation which eventuated in an order effective February 8, 1929 increasing the rates for the future to a parity
with interstate rates. A statutory district court in the
Northern District of Georgia dismissed a bill praying that
it enjoin and set aside the order. This court reversed the
decree, holding the order void for want of supporting findings, and the district court then entered an injunction.
As a consequence of the error of the court, the Coast Line
collected the higher rates from February 8, 1929 to March
7, 1931. The State on behalf of shippers and certain shippers in their own right prayed an award of restitution by
the court whose error made possible the collection of the
unauthorized charges. They were awarded sums representing the difference between what they paid and what
the court found would have been a reasonable and nonconfiscatory rate during the period. They were denied
the full difference between the established State rate and

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

ROBERTS, J.,

319

dissenting.

the unlawful rate fixed by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
I concur in the view that the decision below cannot
stand, but think the direction to the District Court should
be to enter judgment in favor of the claimants and against
the railroad for the difference between the rates, exacted
between February 8, 1929 and March 7, 1931, and the lawful Florida rates. To award less will, in my judgment,
sanction unconstitutional encroachment by the Federal
Government upon the sovereign rights .of the State of
Florida.
First. The Cumnier Scale was, prior to the Interstate
Commerce Commission's order, the lawful tariff for intrastate transportation in Florida. It had been in :effect
over portions of the lines of the Atlantic Coast Line in
that State since 1903. It had been in force on all trackage of that railroad in Florida since 1914. Originally
established by contract between the railroad and certain
shippers, it was, in 1914, filed by the carrier as a rate
schedule for trainload lots only. The Florida Railroad
Commission disapproved the tariff as filed, and insisted
that it apply also to carload lots. The Coast Line acquiesced and amended the tariff accordingly. In 1927
that commission, after notice and hearing, the Coast Line
being represented, published a rule making all existing
rates, whether voluntarily established or otherwise, commission rates, and prohibiting alteration or discontinuance of them save upon application to and approval by
the commission. Compare Western & Atlantic Railroad
v. GeorgiaPublicService Comm'n, 267 U. S. 493.
As the statutes of Florida stood prior to 1913, rate
schedules promulgated by the commission were merely
prima facie evidence of reasonableness. If the carrier
exacted more than the scheduled rate and was sued for
overcharge, it might overcome the prima facie case made
by proof of the commission rate, by showing that the

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Rona s, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

amount collected was in fact reasonable.1 By the act of
June 7, 1913,2 the law was amended. The supreme court
of Florida has construed the amendment to make a rate
prescribed after investigation and hearing, the lawful
rate, and the only rate the carrier may charge so long
as the commission's order remains in force. We are
bound by this construction of the local law.
Second. Since the federal courts respect a state law
which requires persons to exhaust administrative remedies
before resorting to the courts, they cannot, any more than
can the state courts, inquire into the reasonableness of a
Florida commission-made rate in a litigation seeking the
recovery of overcharges. This is not to say that after the
1

Pensacola & Atlantic R. Co. v. State, 25 Fla. 310; 5 So. 833;,Cul-

len v. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co., 63 Fla. 122; 58 So. 182; La Floridienne v. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., 63 Fla. 208; 58 So. 185.
'Ch. 6527, Laws of Florida, 1913, p. 403.
'Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Speed-Parker, Inc., 103 Fla. 439, 448,
452; 453; 137 So. 724. Reinschmidt v. Louisville & N. R. Co . 118
Fla. 237; 160 So. 69. In the latter case the court said '[p. 240]:
"Where on the trial of a controversy over freight charges the
nature and character of a particular shipment by rail is established
by the evidence ,r has been admitted, and it appears that the Florida Railroad Commission has, after due notice and lawful hearing,
prescribed and put into force a particular freight tariff and classification governing the freight charges to be imposed by the carrier for
the haulage of a freight shipment of the particular nature and character shown or admitted by the evidence in the case, the Railroad
Commission tariff is, as a matter of law, the only applicable and controlling tariff, and the court is without the right to enter upon any
inquiry whether or not the prescribed Railroad Commission rate is
just or reasonable or is otherwise proper as a proposition of administrative scientific rate making. Under the present law of Florida a
rate cannot be collaterally attacked for unreasonableness after it is
prescribed in due form of procedure by the Railroad Commsion, nor
attacked as a, matter of law on grounds not going to the legality of
the procedure by which the prescribed rate or classification was
arrived at by the Railroad Commission in promulgating it."

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

RoBERTs,

321

J., dissenting.

exhaustion of the administrative remedy one aggrieved
by a rate prescribed by state authority may not sue to set
aside-the rate as confiscatory. This he may do either in
a state or a federal tribunal.4 But such a suit is to set
aside and enjoin the enforcement of the rate, which has
the force of a statute until so overthrown. The carrier
cannot avoid the mandatory quality of the state's regulation by pleading and proving in an action to recover
overcharges that.the rate in force at the time of the transaction was unreasonable, and that the higher charge exacted was in fact reasonable. A federal court is without
power to fix reasonable rates; its jurisdiction ends with
a decision that established rates are confiscatory and an
injunction against their enforcement; it may not imlose a
different rate, since so to do would be to usurp the functions of the rate-making body established by state law."
This the court below essayed by substituting what it
found to be reasonable rates for the established state
rates which it thought unreasonably low, and awarding
the claimants the difference between the rates so fixed
and those collected under color of the void order.
Third. The constitutional power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce, and the incidental power to
prevent unjust, discrimination against that commerce by
intrastate rates, is not self-executing, but must be exercised by appropriate legislation. Until Congress acts the
States are free to regulate intrastate commerce as they
see fit, subject only to the limitations set by the Four"Relief is granted in case of confiscatory rates not under the commerce clause but under the Fourteenth Amendment. See, for example, Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 433ff; Northern.Pacific v.
North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; Brooks-Scanlon Co. v. Railroad Commission, 251 U. S. 396; Chicago, M. & St. P, Ry. Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 274 U. S. 344.
'Central Kentucky Natural Gas Co. v. Railroad Commission, 290
U. S. 264, 271, and cases cited.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
ROBEFrS,

J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

teenth Amendment. By the Interstate Commerce Act
the regulation of interstate rates was vested exclusively
in the Interstate Commerce Commission.6 This court
held the legislation enabled the Commission to remove
injurious discriminations against interstate traffic arising
from the relation of intrastate to interstate rates, and in
so doing the Commission might require interstate carriers
not to charge higher rates for transportation between
specified interstate points than between specified intrastate points.' In further exercise of the power to regulate
interstate commerce, Congress, by § 416 of the Transportation Act of February 28, 1920, which added paragraph (4) to § 13 of the Interstate Commerce Act, has
declared that whenever the Commission finds that any
intrastate rate causes an undue or unreasonable ad4antage, preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the other hand, or any
undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against
interstate or foreign commerce, it shall prescribe the rate
or charge, or the maximum or minimum, or maximum and
minimum, thereafter to be charged, in order to remove the
preference, prejudice or discrimination, and that its orders
in that behalf shall be obeyed by the carriers, the law of
any state, or the order or decision of any state authority,
to the contrary notwithstanding. The section authorizes not only the removal of discrimination as between
persons and places, but also such as imposes an undue
revenue burden upon interstate commerce
Congress has provided for the setting aside of unlawful
orders of the Commission by suits in equity in district
'Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 396, 399, 402-415.
T
Houston, E. & W. Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S. 342.
'Florida v. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211; Florida v. United
States, 292 U. S. 1, 4, 5.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

ROBERTS,

323

J., dissenting.

courts of the United States; ' but it has never conferred
upon any federal court jurisdiction to deal in the first
instance with the matter of discrimination."0 The federal courts lack power even to maintain by injunction a
status or to enjoin a rate pending proceedings before the
Commission looking to the entry of an order affecting
intrastate rates."
Fourth. The order of the Interstate Commerce Commission of August 2, 1928, being null and void, could not
justify the carrier in thereafter collecting the increased
rates therein named. When in May, 1926, the Georgia
Railroad Commission complained to the Commission that
certain of the Coast Line's rates on logs between points in
Florida were unduly low as compared with interstaterates,
the Commission was without power to enter an interlocutory order raising the intrastate rates. It was bound by
the provisions of the Act to institute an inquiry and could
enter an order only upon adequate evidence and findings
which should be prospective in operation. August 2, 1928,
it made such an order, which it declared effective February
8, 1929. The State of Florida, by its Railroad Commission,
recognized that until that order was set aside, it must be
obeyed, and consequently made its own orders No. 979 and
No. 990, suspending the Cummer Scale so long as federal
Commission's order should remain in force. Notwithstanding that order and an amendatory order were unsupported by appropriate findings; the district court which
was asked to enjoin and set them aside held them valid. 2
'Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 219; U. S. C., Tit. 28,
§§ 41 (27) (28), 43-48. Supp. V, Tit. 28, §§ 41 (27), 44, 45, 45a, 4,
47a, 48.
" Minnesota Rate Cases, supra, 419; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
Trammel, 287 Fed. 741, 743.
" Board of Railroad Commissionersv. Great Northern Ry. Co., 281
U. S. 412.
"30 F. (2d) 116; 31 F. (2d) 580.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
RoBsn'rs,

J., dissenting.

295 U.S.

We reversed the decree and condemned the final order as
void." If the district court had acted in accordance with
law it would have set aside the order. Had it done so the
Coast Line, in the absence of any action by the Florida
Commission fixing other rates, would have been bound to
collect only those specified in the Cummer Scale. In reliance upon the erroneous decision of the district court,
however, the railrbad exacted the increased rates approved
by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The state of
Florida and shippers protested that these were not lawful
and pressed with vigor to have them set aside. Our decision reversing the district court's decree was rendered
January 5, 1931. The Coast Line, taking the position that
further action by the Interstate Commerce Commission
might in some way cure the defect in its order, moved us to
stay our mandate of reversal to the district court, or in the
alternative, that we include in the mandate a direction
to that court to maintain the status quo until the Commission should have opportunity to reopen its proceedings
and properly determine the matter. We denied the motion
for the obvious reason that neither we nor the court below
could authorize the railroad to persist in charging rates
which had been fixed by a void order. Upon the going
down of our mandate the district court entered it as its
decree in the cause; and the Coast Line, as it was bound
to do, immediately reduced its rates to the level of the
Cummer Scale. On-April 6, 1931 the Commission reopened the proceedings, -heard much new evidence in respect
of the then existing situation (not that theretofore existing in May, 1926, the date of the original complaint), and
upon adequate evidence and adequate findings ruled that
the rates of the Cummer Scale then were and for the future
would be unjustly discriminatory against interstate corn" 282 U. S. 194.

ATLANTICCOAST LINE v. flORIDA.
301

325

ROBERTS, J., dissenting.

merce. It entered an order July 5, 1932, raising the intrastate rates."' Thereupon the Coast Line put into force
the higher rates' prescribed. A statutory district court
refused to enjoin and set aside the order,"5 and we affirmed
its judgment.U '
Fifth. Upon the entry of the decree in obedience to
our mandate, the statutory district court had jurisdiction
to entertain a prayer for restitution of the excess charges
paid by shippers, parties to or represented in the cause,
If
solely by force of its original erroneous judgment.
the Coast Line, due to that court's error, had collected
more than the legal rate, it owed an obligation to restore the excess to each of the complaining shippers. To
refuse to consider their prayer would be to remit each of
them to his separate action against the carrier for an
overcharge; and to insist upon such a multiplicity of actions in the circumstances would be tantamount to a
denial of justice.18 But the fact that the court had jurisdiction to entertain the omnibus claim for restitution in
no wise alters the legal nature of the claim of each plaintiff or the measure of the respondent's obligation. If
each of the shippers instead of asking restitution of the
district court had instituted his separate action either in
a Florida state court or, because of diversity of citizenship
and the amount in controversy, in a federal district court,
he need only have offered the Cummer Scale and the order
of the Railroad Commission of Florida making it the lawful established tariff. This would have made a prima
facie case for the recovery of all excess charged over the
"186 I. C. C. 157. After a further hearing the order was confirmed
on January 8, 1933; 190 I. C. C. 588.
' 4 F. Supp. 477.
S292 U. S. 1.
1
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. United States, 279 U. S.781.

Ibid., 786.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
ROBEirS, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

rates fixed by that scale. The defendant railroad company
could not have offered the void decree of the Interstate
Commerce Commission as an excuse for the overcharge.
Neither a state court nor a federal court in such an action
could have entertained a plea that some two years after
the entry of the void order, the Interstate Commerce
Commission had made another based on new evidence,
and prospective only in operation. These facts would not
tend to prove that the lawfully established Florida. intrastate rates unduly discriminated against interstate commerce at the time' of the collection of the challenged
charge, or were then confiscatory.
As has been shown the Cummer Scale embodied the
lawful raites for intrastate carriage. Until the federal
Commission had raised those rates for the future by an
order made in accordance with law, the scale remained
in force, and the carrier was bound to observe it. The
order of the Commission effective February 8, 1929 did
not supersede it. The district court has no power to disregard it or to fix rates other than those contained in it.
The rights of intrastate shippers are fixed by that scale,
have never been abrogated, and must be recognized in
every court, state or federal. For the district court or
this court to refuse the complainants the full measure
of, those rights would be to set at naught the laws of
Floridain violation of the Federal Constitution.
Sixth. Moreover this is not a case in which equitable
considerations have any place. It is said that the Coast
Line was compelled to exact the increased rates named in
the Interstate Commerce Commission's order so long as
that order stood unreversed, under pain ofcriminal prosecution, and that it would therefore be inequitable to compel it to restore what it thus unlawfully took. This argument overlooks the countervailing rights of the shippers
and the state of Florida. The shippers, despite their efforts to set the order aside, were bound under similar pains

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

ROBErtS,

327

J., dissenting.

and penalties to pay the increased rates. Had it not been
for the unlawful order they would have continued to pay
rates named in the Cummer Scale until the Florida commission had itself altered them, or a court of competent
jurisdiction, upon a finding that they were confiscatory,
had set them aside. No such procedure was initiated by
the carrier. What of the rights of the state of Florida?
Its duly constituted authorities had prescribed rates which
had the force of a statute until repealed or set aside.
'These rates had been fixed, we must presume, with no
thought of discrimination against interstate commerce.
The federal court for northern Georgia had erroneously
approved the unlawful suspension of the state schedule.
Has the State no equity to insist on behalf of its citizens
that its rates shall be observed until they have been lawfully superseded?
It is urged that it now appears the Interstate Commerce
Commission was right in holding the Florida rates unjustly discriminated against interstate commerce, and the
order consequent upon this right conclusion was v oided
merely because of a procedural error.. The answer is that
the evidence in the two Commission hearings was different, and we may not assume that if the Commission had
observed its duty to make adequate findings, it could have
drawn support for such findings from the record on which
the first order was based; and the second and valid order
made in 1932 cannot apply retroactively to affect lawful
state rates in force prior -to its issuance. Nor is the contention sound that this court has now held the Commission's findings were supported by evidence. This is true
with respect to the second order, but this court has never
so held as to the first. In fact we refused to analyse the
evidence, because that was the duty of the Commission,
not of this court.19 Of course that body properly may rely
on the prior experience of carriers in making its'orders for
" 282 U. S. 215.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Roma-rs, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

their future conduct; but this does not justify a court in
relying on the evidence taken by the Commission in an
independent trial of a wholly different issue.
We are told that restitution is an equitable doctrine
and that as the court, upon cohsideration of all the facts,
should hold there was no inequity in the carier's retaining what it had collected, refusal of a decree is merely to
withhold action, as a court of equity is always free to do
in such circumstances. But the weakness of this argument is, that by refusing relief the court in effect denies
legal rights. It is not suggested that a dismissal of the
motion will not be res judicata in any action hereafter
brought to recover for overcharges; and if so, the decision
in this case is an adjudication by a federal court that the
collection of the increased rate was lawful, the invalidity
of the Commission's order and the law of Florida to the
contrary notwithstanding.
The burden is said to rest upon the claimants of restitution to show that the Interstate Commerce Commission's schedule was unreasonable. This is but to confuse
the two orders. The first order was as matter of law unreasonable because without proper support. The second
order was reasonable because it had such support in the
record and findings. It confuses the issue to relate the
propriety of the second order to the Commission's earlier
void action. The same confusion persists in the carrier's
assertion that § 13 (4) denounces unjust discrimination
and the injustice exists whether the Commission has so
found or not. The answer is that Congress has not
vested courts with jurisdiction to determine whether state
rates discriminate against interstate commerce, and the
statutory district court had no more authority to investigate that question at the behest of any party before it
than would any other state or federal court in an action for
an overcharge. Congress has directed that the fact of

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
301

329

RoBmirs, J., dissenting.

discrimination shall be ascertained solely by the
Commission.
Finally, it is said that the Coast Line's equity is the
greater because the state rates have been found to be
confiscatory. No Florida court has so found. Confiscation was not and could not be the issue before the Interstate Commerce Commission in either the original-or the
reopened proceeding. Two scales of rates, both in themselves within the zone of reasonableness, may upon examination disclose undue discrimination. The confiscatory
character of the intrastate rate may be and often is an
element to be considered upon the issue of discrimination,
but obviously the order of-the Commission could not be
based upon that alone. If the statement means that in
the restitution proceeding the statutory district court
found the state rates were so low as to be confiscatory,
the answer is that in a suit to recover overcharges the
court had no jurisdiction to investigate a claim of confiscation under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The case is not to be decided according to the character
ascribed to the first order of the Commission. Whether
called void or voidable, the order gave the railroad no
right to collect the sums exacted. If, as must be conceded,
the carrier took, under and by force of that order, money
to which it was not in law entitled, the conclusion necessarily follows that it must restore what was so taken.
To hold that the claimants may not have restitution is
to say that invalid, void or voidable orders of the Commission have precisely the same force and effect as orders
lawfully made, if from extrinsic facts and matters not
cognizable by the court the conclusion may be drawn that
the Commission might have made a valid order in the circumstances. So to hold is to recognize in a restitution
proceeding, a jurisdiction which in no other circumstances and in no other case could a federal court exercise;

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

and to permit that court to ignore and nullify action in a
field within the State's sovereign power.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and
JUSTICE STONE, concur in this opinion.

MR.

RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD ET AL. v. ALTON

RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 56G.

Argued March 13, 14, 1935-Decided May 6, 1935.

1. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is subject
to the guaranty of due process in the Fifth Amendment. P. 347.
2. A railroad's assets, though dedicated to public use, remain the
private property of its owners and can not be'taken without just
compensation. P. 357.
3. There is no warrant for taking the property or money of one
interstate carrier and transferring it to another without compensation, whether the object of the transfer be to build up the transferee or to pension its employees. P. 357.
4. A declaration in a statute that invalid provisions shall not operate
to destroy it entirely, creates a presumption of severability, but
can not empower the court to rewrite the statute and give it an
effect altogether different from that sought by the measure viewed
as a whole. P. 361.
5. The Railroad Retirement Act of June 27, 1934, is unconstitutional
because it contains inseverable provisions that violate the due process clause, and because it is not in purpose or effect a regulation
of interstate commerce within the meaning of Art. I, § 8. Pp. 347,
362.
6, This Act purported to establish a compulsory retirement and pension system for all interstate carriers by railroad. A fund, to be
deposited in the national treasury and administered by a. governmental Board, was to be created and kept up by enforced contributions from all the carriers and their employees. The sums
payable by employees were to be percentages of their current
compensation, and the sums payable by each carrier double the
total payable by its employees, The Board was to determine

