330

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

and to permit that court to ignore and nullify action in a
field within the State's sovereign power.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and
JUSTICE STONE, concur in this opinion.

MR.

RAILROAD RETIREMENT BOARD ET AL. v. ALTON

RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 56G.

Argued March 13, 14, 1935-Decided May 6, 1935.

1. The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce is subject
to the guaranty of due process in the Fifth Amendment. P. 347.
2. A railroad's assets, though dedicated to public use, remain the
private property of its owners and can not be'taken without just
compensation. P. 357.
3. There is no warrant for taking the property or money of one
interstate carrier and transferring it to another without compensation, whether the object of the transfer be to build up the transferee or to pension its employees. P. 357.
4. A declaration in a statute that invalid provisions shall not operate
to destroy it entirely, creates a presumption of severability, but
can not empower the court to rewrite the statute and give it an
effect altogether different from that sought by the measure viewed
as a whole. P. 361.
5. The Railroad Retirement Act of June 27, 1934, is unconstitutional
because it contains inseverable provisions that violate the due process clause, and because it is not in purpose or effect a regulation
of interstate commerce within the meaning of Art. I, § 8. Pp. 347,
362.
6, This Act purported to establish a compulsory retirement and pension system for all interstate carriers by railroad. A fund, to be
deposited in the national treasury and administered by a. governmental Board, was to be created and kept up by enforced contributions from all the carriers and their employees. The sums
payable by employees were to be percentages of their current
compensation, and the sums payable by each carrier double the
total payable by its employees, The Board was to determine

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 331"
330

Syllabus.

from time to time the percentage requisite to produce the necessary funds; but pending its action, the Act fixed each employee's
annual contribution at 2% of his compensation. The Act was
sought to be sustained as a measure to promote efficiency, economy
and safety in the operations of interstate railroads.
That the Act violates the due process clause is shown by the
following considerations:
(1) All persons who were in carrier service within one year
prior to the passage of the Act (about 146,000) would be entitled
under it to pensions, whether reimployed or not. Among them
would be those who had been discharged for cause, or had been
retired, or had resigned to take other gainful employment, or
whose positions had been abolished, or whose employment was
temporary. These persons were not in carrier service at the date
of the Act, and it is certain thousands of them never again will be.
To place such a burden upon the carriers is arbitrary in the last
degree; and the claim that such largess would promote efficiency
or safety in the future operation of the railroads is without rational
support. P. 348.
(2) If any one of the million or more living persons who lett the
service more- than a year before the date of the Act were reemployed by any carrier, at any time, for any' period,, and in any
capacity, his prior service would couint, under the Act, in computing the annuity payable upon his attaining 65 years of age. This
provision would- impose vast future burdens never contemplated
by the earlier' cq tracts of employment, and would take, from the
railroads' future earnings to pay for. services already fully compensated; as to some of the railroads it constitutes a naked -appropriation of private property upon the basis of transictions with
which the owners of the property were never connected.- The contention that economy, efficiency or safety of operation would be
thereby increased, is without rational basis. P. 349.
, 3) Upon attaining 65 years of age, any person who had been in
carrier service, however briefly, and even though he had been discharged for peculation or gross negligence, would be entitled to a
pension. In thus substituting legislative largess for private bounty,
the Act, instead of improving the kind of "morale" among the employees which works for efficiency, loyalty and continuity of service,
would surely destroy it. P. 351.
(4) Were the Act upheld, thousands of employees in the service
at its date would at once become entitled to annuities without

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

having contributed to the fund. This enormous exaction is plainly
irrelevant to efficiency and safety of operation. The claim that it
would prevent incompetent men being kept in service is a bare
assumption without evidence to support it. P. 352.
(5) The Act would allow any employee who had served 30
years to retire on pension (reduced 1/15 for each year he lacked of
65), without regard to his competency and wholly at his own
option. This again adds to the carriers' burden without promoting econcmy, efficiency or safety of their operations. P. 352.
(6) The Act would credit those who were in carrier employment
at the date of its passage with their past service without requiring
them to make corresponding contributions. There can be no constitutional justification for thus arbitrarily imposing upon the carriers vast additional liabilities in respect of transactions which were
long ago clozed and fully paid for on a basis of cost to which the
carriers' rates and their fiscal affairs were adjusted. P. 353.
(7) The provision entitling representatives of employee organizations to retire from carrier service and receive pensions, by paying
in future amounts equal to the sum of the contributions of an employee and of an employer, is arbitrary and unreasonable. P. 354.
(8) The scheme of pooling the contributions of all the carriers
and treating all as though there were one employer, operates unconstitutionally (a) by discrimination against carriers having relatively few, if any, superannuated employees (p. 355); (b) by requiring solvent carriers to contribute for employees of the insolvent
(p. 356); (c) by forcing carriers to pay for past service of employees of carriers no longer in existence (p. id.); and (d) by forcing them to insure repayment, to employees or their estates, of the
amounts of the employees' contributions (p. id.).
(9) The provisions of the Act which disregard the private and
separate ownerships of the several carriers, treat all as a single
employer and pool their assets regardless of their individual obligations and of the varying conditions found in their respective
enterprises, can not be reconciled with due process of law. P. 357.
That the Act is not a legitimate exercise of the power to
regulate interstate commerce results from the considerations following:
(10) Its declared purposes to provide "adequately for the satisfactory retirement of aged-employees "; "to make possible greater
employment opportunity and more rapid advancement "; to provide "the greatest practicable amount of relief from 'memploy-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 333
330

Statement of the Case.

ment and the greatest possible use of resources available for said
purpose and for the payment of annuities for the relief of superannuated employees," have obviously no reasonable relation to the
business of interstate transportation. P. 362.
(11) As for the other declared purpose, viz., to promote efficiency
and safety in interstate transportation, it is clear from overwhelming evidence and from the face of the Act that, though the plan
might bring about social benefits to employees, it can have no
relation to the promotion of efficiency, economy or safety by separating the unfit from the industry. P. 363.
(12) The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce at
the expense of the carriers can not be extended to regulations
related merely.to the social welfare of the worker, upon the theory
that by engendering contentment and a sense of personal security
they will induce more efficient service. p. 367.
(13) Safety Appliance Acts, Employers' Liability Acts, and Workmen's Compensation Acts afford no precedent or justification for
the Act here in question, which seeks to attach to the relation of
employer and employee a new incident, without reference to any
existing obligation or legal liability, solely in the interest of the
employee, with no regard to the conduct of the business, or its
safety or efficiency, but purely for social ends. P. 368.
(14) Assuming that a pension system established voluntarily by
a carrier may, by exciting the loyalty of employees, promote efficiency and continuity in service, it is palpable that this attitude
and those effects are destroyed when the pension becomes an imposition planned by Congress and forced upon all employers in
favor of all employees without regaid to how long they have
served, or how long for any one employer. P. 371.
(15) The fact that carriers for their own purposes have adopted
voluntary pension systems can not extend the power to regulate
interstate commerce and thus enable Congress to compel all carriers to accept any-pension system it devises. P. 373.
Affirmed.

CERTIORARI,

293 U. S. 552, to review a decree of the

Supreme Court of the District of Columbia enjoining the
Railroad Retirement Board and its members from enforcing the Railroad Retirement Act. When the writ
issued the case was pending on appeal in the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

295 U. S.

Court of Appeals for the District. The writ was therefore directed to that court.
Assistant Attorney General Stephens and Mr. Harry
Shulman, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs.
Carl McFarland,Hammond E. Chaffetz, and Max Turner
were on the brief, for petitioners.
In the light of the history of retirement and pension
systems, Congress was justified in regarding them as a
means of promoting. efficiency and economy.
The Retirement Act is calculated to overcome the defects of railroad pension plans. The chief defects in the
carrier plans have been found to be: (1) That, due principally to requirements of continuity of service, they have
largely failed to provide employees with old-age security.
Under them, few employees become eligible for pensions.
(2) The amounts of pensions paid have not been adequate. (3) Due to their continuity of service requirements, they discriminate against the lower-paid employees, among whom labor turnover is greatest.
(4) They' confer no enforceable rights. Employees thus
have no assurance that, even if they ultimately satisfy
the eligibility requirements, they will be retired on pension, or that, if retired on pension, their annuities will
not be discontinued or diminished. (5) The carriers have
failed to maintain reserve funds to insure their ability to
pay pension costs; their practice is to charge pension
payments against operating expenses each year as the
payments are made. (6) Among other defects, and of
first importance, the existing carrier plans have failed
to eliminate the great amount of superannuation which
exists in railroad personnel.
By way of contrast with these voluntary systems, the
one established by the Retirement Act provides assurance to the employees of old age security. The elimination of the requirement of continuity of service removes
the chief reason why few pensions may be earned ufnder

RETIREMENT BOARD v.. ALTON R. CO. 335'
330

Argument for Petitioners.

the existing systems. It also removes the discrimination
in favor of. higher-paid classes with respect to the likelihood of obtaining any pension, and the amount of annuity received. Also the amounts of annuities' received
under the Retirement Act are likely: to be greater than
those under the existing pensi6n systems. The fixing of
the normal retirement age under the Act at 65, as compared with 70 under the existing carrier pension systems,
will do much to remove the superannuation now existing
in the industry. On the whole, the Retirement Act embodies 'the principles which are generally regarded as
being essential to a sound retirement and pension plan;
it may be expected to promote economy and improve
employee morale, and promote the efficiency and safety
'of interstate transportation.
If there is a substantial basis for the judgment of Congress with respect to the need for, and the likely effect of,
the Act, its action will not be held to be arbitrary. Radice
v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294-295. That the benefits
which respondents eipected to derive'from their voluntary pension plans (said'to be greater continuity of service and improved employee loyalty) differ from those
emphasized in the Act does not affect the Act's validity,
so long as it is calculated in other ways to promote efficiency and safety. ,The Act is based upon a fundamentally different conception from that which appears to
underlie the carriers' voluntary plans. 'Whereas the carrier, seem to have regarde Lthe pension as a gratuity in
the nature of a reward for long, .unbroken' service, the
Act emphasizes the systematic removal of superannuated
workers and the improvement of employee morale and
efficiency through providing definite assurance of old
age security, and opening of paths to promotion and
advancement.
It is clear from the mere examination of the A ct that
it was not adopted by Congress as a pretext for the ac-

.336

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

295 U. S.

complishment of unauthorized purposes. The Act sets
_up a retirement and pension system which will be sound
and adequate, and which Congress reasonably believed
will lead to increased efficiency and safety in interstate
transportation. The purposes indicated in the Act of
providing for the satisfactory retirement of aged employees and of making possible more rapid advancement
of employees, and the reference in § 2 (a) to the "payment
of annuities for relief of superannuated employees," are
"not ends in and of themselves but means to the legitimate end of" promoting efficiency and safety in interstate transportation. Cf. Stephenson v. Binford, 287
U. S: 251, 272. -The relief of unemployment is not one
of the chief aims of the Act. Cf. Arizona v. California,
283 U. S. 423; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co., 255 U. S.
180. The reference to unemployment relief in § 2 (a)
is but the expression of the hope that through the Act
some such relief may incidentally be provided. Ann
ArbOr R.Co. v. United States, 281 U. S. 658, 668-669.
- Numerous cases decided since the enactment of the
Transportation Act, 1920, disclose that concern for the
preservation, promotion, and protection of the national
transportation system has required the extension of federal " guardianship and control" beyond matters of interstate rates alone, to matters which previously might have
been left unregulated or subject to state regulation. The
broad scope of the authority -of Congress in the field of
labor conditions and relations is evidenced by the numerous enactments of Congress in this field which have met
with the approval of this Court.' Southern Ry. Co. v.
United States, 222 U. S. 20; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33 (Safety Appliance Acts); Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S.
612 (hours of service); Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332
twages during emergency); Texas & New Orleans R. Co.
v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548 (labor relati6ns),

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 337
330

Argument for Petitioners.

Approximately 60 per cent. of all operating expenses
of interstate carriers are expended as direct laboi costs.
The power of Congress is not limited to the improvement of the physical facilities of the carriers, but Congress may deal also with the employees, who compose an
important element of the national transportation. system. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612, 618-619.
The lower court's classification of employees not engaged in interstate commerce or transportation, based
presumably upon decisions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, may be disregarded, since this Court
has said that that Act does not mark the limits of the
power of Congress under the Commerce Clause, Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 477. No showing is made that the employees referred to are not engaged in the transportation business of respondents or
that their efficiency does not affect the efficiency of the
national transportation system.
The Employers' Liability Cases do not hold that Congress lacks power to enact legislation applying to employees not directly engaged in interstate commerce.
This is apparent from the numerous subsequent decisions of this Court sustaining legislation applicable to
employees engaged in intrastate commerce and to employees generally. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States,
222 U. S. 20; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241
U.'. 33; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Com;nerce Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612; Texas & New Orleans R.
Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.
If Congress is authorized to provide for the compulsory
retirement and pensioning of superannuated workers,
clearly the manner in which the amount of annuities
shall be determined rests in its sound discretion. Measurement of annuities according to years of service is eminently fair to the carriers. The fact that the Act draws

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

295 U. S.

upon past facts, i. e., years of service prior to the Act, for
the calculation of annuities does not render the statute
retroactive. Cox v. Hart, 260 U. S. 427, 435; Hawker v.
New York, 170 U. S. 189.
The fact that persons previously in the employ of the
carriers who are re~mployed will receive credit toward
their pensions for services rendered in the past is, in the
light of the pertinent circumstances, not unreasonable.
N6r is it unreasonable to provide for the payment of pensions to persons who are required to retire forthwith, and
who will not contribute any substantial sums toward the
costs of their annuities.
The considerations which led Congress to include persons in the service within a year prior to the Act appear
in the legislative history of the Act.
As for payment of annuities to persons who have left
the service prior to the retirement age, in the absence of
such provision, employees who were laid off or discharged,
even though this occurred on the very eve of retirement,
would lose their pension rights. The purpose of the provision is to provide assurance of old-age security. Such
provision is reasonable, not because of its effect upon employees after they have left the service but because it
improves the morale of employees while they are in the
service.
The justification for the provision entitling an employee to retire after 30 years of service is that employees
who have completed 30 years of service may find it necessary, and it inay be in the interest of the industry; for
them to retire before age 65. The reduced amount of
annuity in the case of retirement before age 65 may be
expected to discourage such retirements unless they are
reasonably necessary.
The inclusion of employee representatives does not
burden the retirement fund. In any case, it is reasonably necessary if the policies of the Railway Labor Act

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 339
330

Argument for Petitioners.

are not to be defeated; railway employees might be
loath to surrender their rights- under the Retirement Act
in order to become employee representatives.
Because the Act provides for the payment of all contributions into a common fund; and because the amounts
of annuities are made to depend on the service periods
of the employees, time spent in the service of -any carrier
being made part of an employee's service period, respondents contend that there is an improper "mingling" and
"pooling" of the "affairs and funds" and the service
periods of their employees. There can be no objection to
the mere establishment of a common fund from which
annuities are to be paid. Respondents' objection is,
rather, that the Act prescribes an improper measure for
determining carrier contributions to the fund.
Since the railroads, as well as the public, have a common interest in the efficient performance of the transportation system as a whole, it can not matter that superannuated employees are unevenly distributed among
them at the present time, or that the age classifications
or average service periods of employees may differ with
different carriers. The fact is, moreover, that there is
strong evidence of the absence of any. substantial differences between the age classifications and average service periods of the employees of the different carriers, so
that in the long run it is not unlikely that costs under
the Retirement Act will be distributed among the carriers very nearly in proportion to the annuities paid to
their respective employees.
The legality of the pooling principle when reasonably
applied is well settled. Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Thornton v. Duffy, 254 U. S. 361; Noble
State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.104; New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co.
v. United States, 263 U. S. 456; Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

295 U. S.

The Retirement Act does not interfere with the right
of the carriers to contract with their employees with
reference to wages.
Messrs. Emmett E. McInnis and Jacob Aronson, with
whom Messrs. Sydney R. Prince,Robert V. Fletcher,Edward S. Jouett, Dennis F. Lyons, and Sidney S. Alderman
were on the brief, for respondents.
I. The Act has no reasonable relation to efficiency or
safety in interstate transportation and hence is beyond
the power of Congress.
'Section 2 (a) shows the emphasis it gives to social
and non-commerce objects, and the mandate of the last
sentence of the section requires administration and construction in accordance with the real intents ajid purposes of the Act, to provide unemployment and old age
relief. It shows the real. intent is to achieve "the
greatest possible use of resources" for those purposes, and
that means "resources" of the railroads. The Government makes no contribution and the employees get theirs
back.
The constitutionality of the Act depends on whether
the means adopted are reasonably related to a legitimate
end within delegated powers. The relation is not sufficient if it be only remote or unsubstantial, and that
is a judicial question.
When the Act is analyzed, the persons to whom it applies and the occasions and conditions upon which it operates show that it is not in reality related to interstate
transportation but only to broader social purposes. In
last analysis only two theories are invoked in support of
the Act in an attempt to relate it to th6 commerce power:
(1) removal of "superannuated" employees; and (2)
creation of employee contentment.
The theory of elimination of superannuation fails because,

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 341
330

Argument for Respondents.

(a) The evidence shows that in fact there is no excess
superannuation among railro4d employees.
(b) Removal of older employees has no reasonable relation to safety in interstate transportation. Older men
cause fewer accidents than younger men.
(c) Removal from service on the arbitrary basis of
mere age or service age, wholly disregarding fitness or
unfitness, as this Act does, has no reasonable relation to
either efficiency or safety.
(d) If removal of older men has any relation to efficiency or safety, that could be achieved by requiring their
retirement. There is no justification for the pension requirement, which is the requirement that takes respondents' property. The "humane" reasons invoked for pensions after retirement are no basis of constitutional powers
to take property of carriers and give it to their employees.
The "contentment theory" is wholly fanciful and
gives the Act no real, reasonable or substantial relation
to either efficiency or safety in interstate transportation.
If that theory were indulged as source of power to take
property, there would be no limit to the extent to which
carrier property could' be taken and given to employees
for their contentment, and constitutional limitations and
guaranties would be wiped out.
The wholly different voluntary pension plans of carriers furnish no support for the Act or for the argument
that the Act has reasonable relation to efficiency or safety
in transportation.
The Act is not in reality a regulation oi commerce, but
is general social legislation not within powers delegated
by the Constitution, and the guise of the commerce power
is a mere pretext.
II. The Act is unconstitutional because it extends its
provisions to all employees of carriers, including those not
engaged in interstate commerce, those engaged exclu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

295 U. S.

•ively in intrastate commerce, and those not engaged in

,nmerce at all. It thus violates the well settled rule
1-the Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463.
. III. The Act is unconstitutional because it grants
pensions for services rendered prior to its enactment. At
the instant of the approval of the Act., all past service
of employees of all carriers for thirty years back was
revitalized and became the basis of enormous bounties.
The annuities for such prior service payable in 1935
alone amount to $68,749,000. They will steadily increase
in succeeding years until 1953, when the portion of the
aggregaU of annuities payable in that year, based solely
on service performed prior to the enactment of the Act,
will amount to $137,435,000. On petitioners' own estimates, annuities to be paid employees for services performed prior to the enactment of the statute will aggregate $4,415,000,000, two-thirds of v4nich is $2,943,000,000,
and the present worth of this amount is $1,720,000,000.
The authorities show-that this retroactive feature of the
Act, imposing such an obligation in respect of serviees
rendered prior to the enactment, violates the Fifth
Amendment.
IV. The Act is unconstitutional in that it unlawfully
undertakes to mingle and pool the resources and obligations of the carriers among themselves and with others.
The Act treats all carriers together as one employer and
all employees of all carriers as the employees of,one employer. It bases the pension upon the cumulative wages
and lengtb of service of each employee with any and all
parriers: It pools the obligations and resources of earch
'carrier witli all others.
Upon fifty-six of the respondents, .who have no employees seventy years of age or over, the Act imposes a
burden of $33,000,000 for pensions to seventy-year old
employee- . f other carriers. The Act imposes the obligations of insolvent carriers upon those who are solvent and

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 343
330

Argument for Respondents.

the obligations of abandoned carriers upon those who remain in existence.
V. The concept of "a national transportation system"
written into the law by the Transportation Act, 1920, and
the decisions by this Court under that Act, are no support for the Retirement Act. None of the provisions of
the Transportation Act undertakes, as does this Act, to
make carriers partners in business or to destroy the separate corporate entity of the carriers or to take the property
of one carrier and give it to another.
VI. The Act violates the Fifth Amendment in requiring payment of pensions even to those who are not in
railroad service at all. Thieir inclusion not only could
have no reasonable relation to efficiency and safety in
interstate tkansportation, but also violates the Fifth
Amendment.
The Act is unreasonable in requiring pensions to be
paid employees who left the service prior to the retirement age; in 'requiring the payment of a pension for 30
years of service regardless of the age of the employee; in
including as the basis of the pension, service rendered
prior to the passage of the Act; in pooling the obligations, funds, and affairs of all carriers; in discriminating
against rail carriers by not including their competitors;
in unlawfully requiring the railroads to insure the employees as to their contributions; and in authorizing
unlimited and uncontrolled expenditures.
The Act is unreasonable and void because of the unconscionable cost imposed by it upon the railroads which
are already in serious financial condition. The cost begins with $60,000,000 a year and increases year by year.
In the tenth year it will aggregate $137,000,00Q. For
prior service alone the cost will aggregate $2,943,966,000.
This gives some- idea of the still vaster sums which will
be imposed on account of future service periods of pres-

344

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion'of the Court.

295 U. S."

ent employees and of future employees. The Act threatens the credit and the continued existence of the railroads.
MR. JUsTIcE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondents, comprising 134 Class I railroads, two
express companies, and the Pullman Company, brought
this suit in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, asserting the unconstitutionality of the Railroad Retirement Act' and praying an injunction against its enforcement. From a decree granting the relief sought an
appeal was perfected to the Court of Appeals. Before
hearing in that tribunal the petitioners applied for a
writ of certiorari, representing that no serious or difficult
questions of fact were involved, and urging the importance of an early and final decision of the controversy.
In the exereise of power conferred by"statute 2 we issued
the writs
The Act establishes a compulsory retirement and pension system for all carriers subject to the Interstate Commerce Act. There is provision for the creation of a fund
to be deposited in the United States treasury (§§ 5, 8)
and administered by a Board denominated an independent agency in the executive branch of the Government
(§ 9). The retirement fund for payment of these pensions and for the expenses of administration of the system
will arise from compulsory contributions from present and
future employees and the carriers..' The sums payable by
the employees are to be percentages of their current compensation, and those by each carrier double the total payable by its employees. The Board is to determine from
"Act of June 27, 1934, c. 868, 48 Stat. 1283.
' U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 347 (a).

'293 U. S. 552.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 345
330

Opinion of the Court.

time to time what percentage is required to provide the
necessary funds, but, until that body otherwise determines,
the employee contribution is to be 2% of compensation
(§ 5). Out of this fund annuities are to be paid to beneficiaries.
The classes of persons eligible for such annuities are
(1) employees of any carrier on the date of passage of the
Act; (2) those who subsequently become employees of
any carrier; (3) those who within one year prior to the
date of enactment were in the service of any carrier
(§lb).
To every person in any of the three categories an annuity becomes payable: (a) when he reaches the age of 65
years, whether then in carrier service or not (§ 3); if still
in such service he and his employer may agree that he shall
remain for successive periods of one year until he attains
70, at which time he must retire (§ 4); (b) at the option
of the employee, at any time between the ages of 51 and
65, if he has served a total of 30 years in the employ of one
or more carriers, whether continuously or not (§§ 3; 1f).
The compulsory retirement provision is not applicable to
those in official positions until five years after the effective
date of the Act (§ 4).
The annuity is payable monthly (§ id). The amount is
ascertained by multiplying the number of years of service,
not exceeding 30, before as well as subsequent to the date
the Act was adopted, whether for a single carrier or a number of carriers, and whether continuous or not, by graduated percentages of the employee's average monthly compensation (excluding all over $300). If one who has completed 30 years of service elects to retire before attaining
the age of 65 years, the annuity is reduced by one-fifteenth
for each year' he lacks of that age, unless the retirement
is due to physical or mental disability (§ 3).
Upon the death of an employee, before or after retirement, his estate is to be repaid all that he has contributed

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

to the fund,,with 3% interest compounded annually, less
any annuity payments received by him (§ 3).
The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia declared the establishment of such a system within the competence of Congress; but thought several inseparable
featukes of the Act transcended the legislative power to
regulate interstate commerce, and required a holding that
the law is unconstitutional in its entirety. Our duty, like
that of. the court below, is fairly to construe the powers of
Congress, and to ascertain whether or not the enactment
falls within them, uninfluenced by predilection for or
against the policy disclosed in the legislation. The fact
that the compulsory scheme is novel is, of course, no evidence of unconstitutionality. Even should we consider the
Act unwise and prejudicial to both public and private interest, if it be fairly within delegated power our obligation
is to sustain it. On the other hand, though we should think
the measure embodies a valuable social plan and be in
entire sympathy with its purpose and intended results, if
the provisions go beyond the boundaries of constitutional
power we must so declare.
The admitted fact that many railroads have voluntarily
adopted pension plans does not aid materially in determining the authority of Congress to compel conformance
,o the one embodied in the Railroad Retirement Act;
ior does the establishment of compulsory retirement
Alans in European countries, to which petitioners refer;
:or, in many of these, railroads are operated under government ownership, and none has a constitutional system
comparable to ours.
The Federal Government is one of enumerated powers;
!those not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States,
are reserved to
the States or to the people. The Constitution is not a
statute, but the supreme law of the land to which all

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 347
330

Opinion of the Court.

statutes must conform, and the powers conferred upon
the Federal Government are to be reasonably and fairly
construed, with a view to effectuating their purposes.
But recognition of this principle can not justify attempted exercise of a power clearly beyond the true purpose of the grant. All agree that the pertinent provision
of the Constitution is Article I, § 8, Clause 3, which confers power on the Congress "To regulate Commerce . . .
among the several States . ."; and that this power
must be exercised in subjection to the guarantee of due
process of law found in the Fifth Amendment.'
The petitioners assert that the questioned Act, fairly
considered, is a proper and necessary regulation of interstate commerce; its various provisions have reasonable
relation to the main and controlling purposes of the
enactment, the promotion of efficiency, economy and
safety; consequently it falls within the power conferred
by the commerce clause and does not offend the principle
of due process. The respondents insist that numerous
features of the Act contravene the due process guaranty
and further that the requirement of pensions for employees of railroads is not a regulation of interstate commerce within the meaning of the Constitution. These
conflicting views bpen two fields of inquiry which to some
extent overlap.' If we assume that under the power to
'See Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196-7; Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 336; Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
321, 362-3; United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co, 282
U. S. 311, 327.
'When the question is whether the Congress has properly exercised
a granted power the inquiry is whether the means adopted bear any
reasonable relation to the ostensible exertion of the power. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U. S. 623, 661; Hammer v. Dagenhart, 247 U. S. 251,
276; Bailey v. Drexel Furniture Co., 259 U. S. 20, 37. When the
question is whether legislative action transcends the limits of due process guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment, decision is guided by the

348

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

regulate commerce between the States Congress may require the carriers to make some provision for retiring

and pensioning their employees, then the contention that
various provisions of the Act are arbitrary .and unreasonable and bear no proper relation to that end must be
considered. If any are found which deprive the railroads of their property without due process, we must
determine whether the remainder may nevertheless stand.
Broadly, the record presents the question whether a
statutory requirement that retired employees shall be
paid "pensions is regulation of commerce between the
States within Article I, § 8.
1. We first consider the provisions affecting former
employees. The Act makes eligible for pensions, all who
were in carrier service within one year prior to its passage,
irrespective of any future reemployment. About 146,000
persons fall within this class, which, as found below,
includes those who have been discharged for cause, who
have been retired, who have resigned to take other
gainful employment, who have been discharged because
their positions were abolished, who were temporarily employed, or who left the service for other reasons. These
persons were not in carrier service at the date of the Act,
and it is certain thousands of them never again will be.
The petitioners say the provision was inserted to assure
those on furlough, or temporarily relieved from duty subject to call, the benefit of past years of service, in the
event of regmployment, and to preVent the carriers from
escaping their just obligations by omitting to recall these
persons to service. And it is said that to attempt nicely
to adjust the provisions of the Act to furloughed men
principle that the law shall not be unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious, and that the means selected shall have a real and substantial
relation to the object sought to be attained.
291 U. S. 502, 525.

Nebbia v. New York,

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 349
330

Opinion of the Court.

would involve difficulties of interpretation and inequalities of operation which the blanket provision avoids. We
cannot accept this view. It is arbitrary in the last degree to place upon the carriers the burden of gratuities
to thousands who have been unfaithful and for that cause
have been separated from the service, or who have elected
to pursue some other calling, or who have retired from the
business, or have been for other reasons lawfully dismissed. And the claim that such largess will promote
efficiency or safety in the future operation of the railroads is without support in reason or common sense.
In addition to the 146,000 who left the service during
the year preceding the passage of the Act, over 1,000,000
persons have been but are not now in the employ of the
carriers. The'statute provides that if any of them is reemployed at any time, for any period, however brief, and
in any capacity, his prior service with any carrier shall be
reckoned in computing the annuity payable upon his attamning 65 years of age. Such- a person may have been out
of railroad work for years; his employment may have been
terminated for cause; he may have elected to enter some
other industry, and may have devoted the best years of
his life to it; yet if, perchance, some carrier in a distant
part of the country should accept him for work of any
description, even temporarily, the-Act throws the burden
of his pension on all the railroads, including, it may be,
the very one which for just cause dismissed him. Plainly
this requirement alters contractual rights; plainly it imposes for the future a burden never contemplated by either
party when the earlier relation existed or when it was
terminated. The statute would take from the railroads'
future earnings amounts to be paid for services fully coNpensated when rendered in accordance with contract, with
no thought on the part of either employer or employee
that further sums must be provided by the carrier. The

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

provision is not only retroactive in that it resurrects for
new burdens transactions long since past and closed; but
as to some of the railroad companies it constitutes a naked
appropriation of private property upon the basis of transactions with'which the owners of the property were never
connected. Thus the Act denies due process of law by taking the property of one and bestowing it upon another.
This onerous financial burden cannot be justified upon the
plea that it is in the interest of economy, or will promote
efficiency or safety. The petitioners say that one who is
takeli back into service will no doubt render more loyal
service, since he will know he is to receive a bonus for
earlier work. But he will not attribute this benefaction to
his employer. The argument comes merely to thecontentment and satisfaction theory discussed elsewhere. -The
petitioners also argue that it the provision in question
threatens an unreasonable burden, the carriers have in
their own control the means*of avoidance, since no carrier
need employ any person who has heretofore been in the
railroad business. The position is untenable for sev-era],
reasons. A carrier may wish to employ one having experience, who has been in another's service. Must it forego
the opportunity because to choose the servant will impose
a financial obligation arising out of an earlier employment
with some other railroad? Would that promote efficiency
and safety? The testimony shows that 22 per cent. of all
railway employees have had prior service on some railroad.
Must a carrier at its peril exercise, through dozens of employment agencies scattered over a vast territory, an unheard of degree of care to exclude all former railroad
workers, at the risk of incurring the penalty of paying a
pension for work long since performed for some other
employer? So to hold would be highly unreasonable and
arbitrary.
2. Several features of the Act, touching those now or
hereafter in railroad employment, are especially challenged by the respondents.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 351
330

Opinion of the Court.

No specified length of service is required for eligibility
to pension, though the amount of the annuity is proportionately reduced if the total tern of employment be less
than 30 years. One may take a position with a carrier
at twenty, remain until he is thirty, resign after gaining
valuable skill and aptitude for his work, enter a more lucrative profession, and, though never thereafter in carrier employ, at 65 receive a pension calculated on his ten
years of service. Or after ten years he may' be discharged for peculation, and still be entitled to the gratuity. Or he may be relieved of duty for gross negligence,
entailing loss of life or property, and yet collect his pension at 65. May these results be fairly denominated the
indicia of reasonable regulation of commerce? May they
be cited in favor of this pension system as an aid to economy, efficiency or safety? We cannot so hold. The petitioners' explanation of this feature of the Act is that
no "real assurance" of "old-age security" is possible "when
persion rights may be lost at any time by loss of employment"; that such a provision is reasonable "because
it improves the morale of the employees while they are
in the service." Assurance of security it truly gives, but,
quite as truly, if "morale" is intended to connote efficiency, loyalty and continuity of service, the surest way
to destroy it in any privately owned business is to substitute legislative largess for private bounty and thus
transfer the drive for pensions to the halls of Congress
and transmute loyalty to employer into gratitude to the
legislature.
The Act assumes that, in fairness, both employer and
employee should contribute in fixed proportions to a liberal pension. But we find that in contradiction of this
recognized principle, thousands of those in the service at
the date of the Act will at once become entitled to annuities, though they will have contributed nothing to the
fund. The burden thus cast on the carriers is found to
be for the first year of administration over $9,000,000,

352

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 V. S.

and until the termination of payments to these annuitants not less than $78,000,000. All that has been said
of the irrelevance of the requirement of payments based
upon services heretofore terminated to any consideration
of efficiency or safety applies here with equal force. The
petitioners say that the retention of these men will be
injurious and costly to the service. This view assumes
they will be retained for years and are incompetent to do
what they are now doing. Evidence is lacking to support
either supposition. Next it is said "that they will receive
from' the fund more than they will have contributed is
not significant for all retired employees receive more than
they contribute." This attempted but futile justification
is significant of the fault in the feature sought to be supported.
One who has served a total of 30 years is entitled to
retire on pension at his election, at whatever his then
-attained age. Thus many who are experienced and reliable may at their own election deprive a carrier of their
services, enter another gainful occupation, cease to contribute to the fund, and go upon the pension roll years
before the fixed retirement age of 65. The finding is that
there are not less than 100,000 in the service of the carriers between 51 and 65 years of age who have had 30
or more years of service. The option is not extended to
them to retire on pension in order to improve transportation, for the choice is the employee's to be exercised solely
on grounds personal to himself; and the provisions cannot
promote economy, for the retiring worker's place will be
filled by another who will receive the same wage. The
court below properly found that "itis to the interest of
the service of plaintiffs and is to the interest of the public
that those of such employees who are competent and
efficient be retained in carrier service for the benefit of
their skill and experience." The petitioners say "clearly
the provision in question is not arbitrary and unreason-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 353
330

Opinion of the Court.

able so as to be unlawful"; but in support of this statement they adduce only the following considerations. As
the pension is reduced 1/15th for each year the annuitant
lacks of 65 at the date of retirement, his separation, it is
said, will impose no greater burden on the fund than if he
had waited until 65; the reduction in the amount payable
will discourage early retirement, and so tend to counteract
the loss of skilled workers; and, finally, "the justification
for this provision is that employees who have completed
thirty years of service may find it necessary, and it 'may
be in the interest of the industry, for them to retire before
age 65." We search in vain for any assertion that the
feature under discussion will promote economy, efficiency
or safety, and the absence of any such claim is not surprising. The best that can be said, it seems, is that the
burden incident to the privilege of early retirement will
not be as heavy as others imposed by the statute.
On June 27, 1934, when the Act was approved, there
were 1,164,707 people in carrier employ. The Act, by
conferring a statutory right to a pension, based in part on
past service, gave the work theretofore performed by these
persons a new quality. Although completed and compensated in full in conformity with the agreement of the parties, that work, done over a period of 30 years past, is to
be the basis for further compulsory payment. While, as
petitioners point out, the bounties are payable only in the
future, any continuance of the relation, however lrief,
subsequent to the passage of the Act, matures a right which
reaches back to the date of original employment. And to
the amount payable in virtue of all these prior years' service, the employees contribute nothing. It is no answer to
say that from the effective date of the law they will have
to contribute from their wages half as much as do their
employers. The future accrues its own annuities. The
finding, accepted by the petitioners as veracious, is that
the annuities payable for service performed prior to June

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

27, 1934, would in the year 1935 amount to $68,749,000
and would increase yearly until 1953, in which year the
portion of the aggregate pension payments attributable to
work antedating the passage of the Act would be $137,435,000. These figures apply only to pensions to those now
employed and exclude payments to those who left the
service during the year prior to the adoption of the Act,
and to those former employees who may hereafter be
re~mployed.
IThis clearly arbitrary imposition of liability to pay again
for services long since rendered and fully compensated is
not permissible legislation. The court below held the provision deprived the railroads of their property without due
process, and we agree with that conclusion. Here again
the petitioners insist that the requirement is appropriate,
because, they say, it does not demand additional pay for
past services, but expenditure "for a present and future
benefit through improvement of the personnel of the
carriers." But the argument ends with mere statement.
Moreover, if it were correct in its assumption, which we
shall presently show it is not, nevertheless there can be no
constitutional justification for arbitrarily imposing millions of dollars of additional liabilities upon the carriers in
respect of transactions long closed on a basis of cost with
reference to which their rates were made and their fiscal
affairs adjusted.
The Act defines as an employee entitled to its benefits
an official or representative of an employee organization
who during or following employment by a carrier acts for
such an organization in behalf of employees. Such an
one may retire and receive a pension provided in future
he pays an amount equal to the sum of the contributions
of an employee and of an employer. The petitioners say
the burden thus imposed is not great; but the provision
exhibits the same arbitrary and unreasonable features

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 355
330

Opinion of the Court.

as those heretofore discussed, and seems irrelevant to any
enhancement of safety or efficiency in transportation.
3. Certain general features of the system violate the
Fifth Amendment. ' Under the statutory plan the draft
upon the pension fund will be at a given rate, while the
contributions of individual carriers to build up the fund
will be at a disparate rate. This results from the underlying theory of the Act, which is that all the railroads
shall be treated as a single employer. The report of the
'Senate subcommittee announced: '
"It is agreed that all railroads which have been subjected to the jurisdiction of Congress are to be treated
together as one employer. All persons in the service of
the railroads are to be regarded as employees of the one
employer. . . . The old age pension or annuity is to be
based upon the wages and the length of service upon all
railroads, with specified maximum limits."
The petitioners themselves showed at the trial that the
probable age of entry into service of typical carriers differs materially; for one it is 2&.4, for another 32.4, for a
third 29.3, and for a fourth 34.2. Naturally the age of a
pensioner at date of employment will affect the resultant
burden upon the contributors to the fund. The statute
requires that all employees of age 70 must *retireimmediately. It is found that 56 of the resjondents have no
employees in that class. Nevertheless they must contribute toward the pensions .of such employees of other respondents nearly $4,000,000 the first year and 'nearly
$33,000,000 in the total. The petitioners admit that these
are the facts, but attempt to avoid their force by the assertion that "the cost differentials which are involved are
negligible as compared with the total cost." This can
only mean that in view of the enormous total cost to all
"Cong. Rec., Vol. 78, p. 5699.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.

the railroads, the group thus discriminated against shoul
not complain of the disregard of their ownership of theh
own assets, because in comparison with gross cost the
additional payments due to the inequality mentioned are
small.
The evidence shows that some respondents are solvent
and others not, a situation which often may recur. The
petitioners concede that the plan is intended to furnish
assurance of payment of pensions to employees of all the
carriers, with the result that solvent railroads must furnish the money necessary to meet the demands of the
system upon insolvent carriers, since the very purpose of
the Act is that the pension fund itself shall be kept solvent and able to answer all the obligations placed upon it.
In recent years many carriers subject to the Interstate
Commerce Act have gone out of existence. The petitioners admit that the employees of these defunct carriers
are treated upon exactly the same basis as the servants
of existing carriers. In other words, past service for a
carrier no longer existing is to be added to any service
hereafter rendered to an operating carrier, in computing
a pension the whole burden of payment of which falls on
those carriers still functioning. And all the future employees of any railroad which discontinues operation must
be paid their pensions by the surviving roads. Again the
answer of the petitioners is that the amount will be neg.
ligible. The fact that millions of dollars are involved in
other features of the Act will not serve to obscure this
violation of due process.
All the carriers must make good the contributions of
all employees, for § 3 directs that upon the death of an
employee the Board shall pay to his estate from the fund
what he has contributed to it with 3 per cent. interest compounded annually, less any payments he has received.
The railroads are not only liable for their own contributions, but are, in a measure, made insurers of those of

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 357
330

Opinion of the Court.

the employees. This appears to be an- unnecessarily
harsh and arbitrary imposition, if the plan is to be what
on its face it imports, a joint adventure with mutuality
of obligation and benefit.
This court has repeatedly had occasion to say that the
railroads, though their property be dedicated to the public use, remain the private property of their owners, and
that their assets may not be taken without just compensation.7 The carriers have not ceased t6 be privately operated and privately owned, however much subject to
regulation in the interest of interstate commerce. There
is no warrant for taking the property or money of one
and transferring it to another without compensation,
whether the object of the transfer be to build up the
equipment of the transferee or to pension its employees.
The petitioners insist that since the adoption of the
Transportation Act, 1920, and as the logical consequence
of decisions of this court, we must recognize that Congress
may deal with railroad transportation as a whole and
regulate the carriers generally and in classes, with an eye
to improvement and development of railway service as a
whole; that the interstate carriers use common facilities,
make through rates, and interact amongst themselves in
various ways, with the result that where any link in the
chain lacks efficiency the system as a whole is affected.
The argument is that since the railroads and the public
have a common interest in the efficient performance of
the whole transportation chain, it is proper and necessary
to require all carriers to contribute to the cost of a plan
designed to serve this end. It is said that the pooling
principle is desirable because there are many small carriers whose employees are too few to justify maintenance
of a separate retirement plan for each. And finally, the
'Interstate Commerce Commission v. Oregon-Washington R. Co.,
288 U. S. 14, 40, and cases cited.

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

claim is that in fixing carrier contributions, any attempt to
give consideration to difference in. age, classification, and
service periods of employees, would involve grave administrative difficulties and unduly increase the cost of administration. With these considerations in view the petitioners urge that our decisions sanction the exercise of
the power involved in the pooling feature of the statute.
They rely upon the New England Diviio'ns Case, 261
U. S. 184. That case, however, dealt purely with rates;
and while the policy of awarding a larger share of the
division of a joint riate to the weaker carrier, in consideration of its need for revenue, was approved, the approval
was definitely conditioned upon the circumstance that the
share or division of the joint rate awarded to the stronger
carrier was not so low as to require it to serve for an
unreasoaable rate. Thus the principle that Congress has
no power to confiscate the property of one carrier for the
benefit of another was fully recognized.
Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S.
456, approved the provision of the Transportation Act,
1920, which required the carriers to contribute "one-half
of their excess earnings" to a revolving fund to be used
by the Interstate Commerce Commission for making loans
to carriers to meet capital expenditures and to refund
maturing obligations, or to purchase equipment and facilities which might be leased to carriers. This case is relied
upon as sustaining the principle underlying the pension
act, but we think improperly. The provision was sustained upon the ground that it must be so administered
as to leave to each carrier a reasonable return upon its
property devoted to transportation, and the holding is
clear that if this principle were not observed in administration, the Act would invade constitutional rights.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219
U. S. 186, which the petitioners cite, is even wider of the
mark. There this court upheld the Carmaick Amendment,

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 359
330

Opinion of the Court.

which made the initial carrier liable to the consignor for
loss of goods contracted to be delivered over connecting
lines. The legislation merely attached certain consequences to a given form of contract. It was recognized
that initial carriers in fact enter irAo contracts for delivery of goods beyond their own lines and make through
or joint rates over independent lines. This being so, it
was held a proper exercise of the'power of regulation to
require one so contracting to be liable in the first instance
to the shipper. So to regulate a recognized form of contract is not offensive to the Fifth Amendment.
It is claimed that several other decisions confirm the
legality of the pooling principle, when reasonably applied. For this position petitioners cite Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219; Noble State Bank
v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, and Thornton v. Duffy, 254
U. S. 361. In the first of these the Washington workmen's compensation Act, which required employers in
extra-hazardous employment to pay into a state fund
certain premiums based upon the percentage of estimated
pay roll of the workmen employed,, was under attack.
For the purpose of payments into the fund, accounts were
to be kept with each industry in accordance with a
statutory classification, and it was definitely providedthat no class should be liable for the delletion of the
accident fund by reason of accidents happening in any
other class. The Act therefore clearly recognized the difference in drain or burden on the fund arising from different industries, and sought to equate the burden in accordance with the risk. The challenge of the employers
was that the statute failed of equitable apportionment as
between the constituted classes. But no proof was furnished to that effect, and this court assumed that the
classification was made in an effort at fairness and equity
as between classes. The Railroad Retirement Act, on
the contrary, makes no classification, but, as above said,

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

treats all the carriers as a single employer, irrespective
of their several conditions.
In the second case this court upheld a statute which
required state banks to contribute a uniform percentage
of their deposits to a state guaranty fund established for
the purpose of making good losses to the depositors of
banks which might become insolvent. The Act was sustained upon the principle that an ulterior public advantage may justify the taking of a comparatively insignificant amount -of private property for what in its immediate purpose is a private use. It was further said that
there may be cases other than those of taxation in
which the share of each party in the benefit of a-scheme
of mutual protection is sufficient compensation for the
correlative burden which it is compelled to assume. These
considerations clearly distinguish that case from the one
now Under discussion.
In the case last cited it was asserted that the workmen's compensation Act of Ohio unfairly discriminated
because it allowed employers in certain cases to pay directly to workmen or their dependents the compensation
provided by law, in lieu of contributing to the state fund
established to secure such payments. This court held
that the classification did not amount to a denial of due
process.
We conclude that the provisions of the Act which disregard the private and separate ownership of the several
respondents, treat them all as a single employer, and pool
all their assets regardless of their individual obligations
and the varying conditions found in their respective enterprises, cannot be justified as consistent with due process.
The Act is said to be unconstitutional because unreasonably and unconscionably burdensome and oppressive
upon the respondents, and we are referred to a finding of
the court below to which petitioners do not assign error.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 361
330

Opinion of the Court.

The facts as found are: based upon present payrolls, the
carriers' contributions for the first year will aggregate not
less than $60,000,000; at the rates fixed in the Act, total
employee and carrier contributions will, on the basis of
present payrolls, be approximately $90,000,000 per year;
unless the amount of the contributions is increased by the
Board, the drain on the fund for payment of pensions will
result in a deficit of over $11,000,000 by the year 1942. To
keep the fund in operation it will be necessary for the
Board to increase the percentages of contributions named
in the Act. The petitioners' actuary testified that in the
tenth year of operation the payments from the fund will
be upwards of $137,000,000. The railroads' total contribution to pensions on account of prior service of employees in service at the date of the Act may amount to
$2,943,966,000. We are not prepared to hold that if the
law were in other respects within-the legislative cofnpetence, the enormous cost involved in its administration
would invalidate it; but the recited facts at least emphasize the burdensome and perhaps destructive effect of the
contraventions of the due process of law clause which we
find exist. Moreover they exhibit the inconsistency of
the petitioners' position that the law is necessary because
in times of depression the voluntary systems of the carriers are threatened by loss of revenue. It is difficult to
perceive how the vast increase in pension expense entailed
by the statute will, wifhout provision of additional revenue, relieve the difficulty experienced by some railroads
in meeting the demands of the plans now in force.
4. What has been said sufficiently indicates our agreement with the holding of the trial court respecting the
disregard of due process exhibited by a number of the
provisions of the Act. We also concur in that court's
views concerning the inseverability of certain of them.
The statute contains a section broadly declaring the intent that invalid provisions shall not operate to destroy

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the law as a whole." Such a declaration provides a rule
which may aid in determining the legislative intent, but
is not an inexorable command. Dorhy v. Kansas, 264
U. S. 286. It has the effect of reversing the presumption
which would otherwise be indulged, of an intent that
unless the act operates as an entirety it shall be wholly
ineffective. Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U. S. 235,
242; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165, 184.
But notwithstanding the presumption in favor of divisibility which arises fr6m the legislative declaration, we
cannot rewrite a statute and give it an effect altogether
different from that sought by the measure viewed as a
whole. Compare Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44, 70. In
this view we are confirmed by the petitioners' argument
that as to some of the features we hold unenforcible, it
is "unthinkable " and "impossible" that the Congress
would have created the compulsory pension system without them. They so affect the dominant aim of the whole
statute as to carry it down with them.
5. It results from what has now been said that the Act
is invalid because several of its inseparable provisions
contravene the due process of law clause of the Fifth
Amendment. We. are of opinion that it is also bad for
another reason which goes to the heart of the law, even
if it could survive the loss of the unconstitutional features
which we have discussed. The Act is not in purpose or
effect a regulation of interstate commerce within the
meaning of the Constitution.
Several purposes are expressed in § 2 (a), amongst
them: to provide "adequately for the satisfactory retirement of aged employees "; "to make possible greater
"Sec.' 14. If any provision of this Act, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the
Act or application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 363
330

Opinion of the Court.

employment opportunity and more rapid advancement;"
to provide by the administration and construction" of the
Act "the greatest practicable amount of relief from unemployment and the greatest possible use of resources
available for said purpose and for the payment of annuities for the relief of superannuated employees." The
respondents assert and the petitioners admit that though
these may in and of themselves be laudable objects, they
have no reasonable relation to the business of interstate
transportation. The clause, however, states a .further
purpose, the promotion of "efficiency and safety in interstate transportation," and the respondents concede that
an Act, the provisions of which show that it actually is
directed to the attainment of such a purpose, falls within
the regulatory power conferred upon the Congress; but
they contend that here the provisions of the statute
emphasize the necessary conclusion that the plan is .cnceived solely for the promotion of the stated purposes
other than efficient and safe operation of the railroads.
The petitioners' view is that this is the true and only
purpose of the enactment, and the other objects stated
are collateral to it and may be disregarded if the law is
found apt for the promotion of this legitimate purpose.
From what has already been said with respeft to sundry
features of the statutory scheme, it must be evident that
petitioners' view is that safety and efficiency are promoted
by two claimed results of the plan: the abolition, of excessive superannuation, and the improvement of morale.
The parties are at odds respecting the existing superannuation of railway employees. Petitioners say it is
much greater than that found in the heavy industries.
Respondents assert it is less, and the court below so
found. The finding is challenged as being contrary to the
evidence. We may, foi present purposes, assume that
"superannuation" as petitioners use the term, i. e., the

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

attainment of 65 years, is as great or greater in the
railroad industry than in comparable employments. It
does not follow, as contended, that the man of that age
is inefficient or incompetent. The facts indicate a contrary conclusion. Petitioners say the seniority rules and
the laying off of younger men first in reducing forces,
necessarily tend to keep an undue proportion of older men
in the service. They say this tendency has long been

marked in the railroad .industry and has been most noticeable in recent years of depression when forces have been
greatly reduced. But what are the uncontradicted facts
as to efficiency and safety of operation? Incontrovertible
statistics obtained from the records of the Interstate Commerce Commission show a steady increase in safety of
operation, during this period of alleged increasing superannuation.'
9Tables Included in the record are as follows:
Year:

195,

1 passenger killed for each 1,376,000 carried.

1910,1
1915, 1

"

1920, 1

"

1925, 1
1930, 1
1932,1

"
"

"

"
"

"

3,00,000
4,954,000
5,673,000
5,237,00

"
"

"

11,9,000

"17,921,000

"

"

"

Decrease In frequency, 77%.
Total Frt.
Psgr.
and
M otor

Year

Feuency

Train

Total Train

Miles
(Thou-

Accidents

Miles

sands)

192- .........--

......

......-------------

1,207,714

1924 -------------------------------------------------1,171,812
1925 -------------------------------------------------1,187,731
1926__;
-------------------------------------------1,211,617
1927 ----------------------------------------------1,184,455
1928 ------...----------------------------------------1,169,442
1929 -------------------------------------------------1,178, 55
1930---------.----------------------------------I08Z 306
I91 .
...-----------------------------------------951,220
1W------------------------------------------813, 0I

Decrese In frequency, W.

llio
Million

27,497

22.77

22, 368
20, 785
21,077
18,976
16,949
17,185
12,313
8,052
6,770

19.09
17. 50
17.39
16. 02
14.49
14.58
1L38
8.45
7.09

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 365
Opinion of the Court.

Indeed, one of the petitioners, and one of their most important witnesses, has written, referring to railroads:
"Experience seems to have proved, moreover, that older
workers cause fewer accidents than do younger; hence
there is little necessity for removing them on that
ground."

20

There is overwhelming evidence in the record to the
same effect. All that petitioners offer on the subject in
their brief is: "in an industry having as many hazardous
Total man- Total ehployees killed and injured
hours worked
by all eTa-

Year

(thousands)

192 ----------------------4,856,964
1924 --------------------4,473,186
1925 ------- I-------------4,448,377
196 .
.---------------------4,557,537
1927----------------------4,406.627
1928 --------------------4,191,065
1929 ..--------------------4.225,292
1930 ----------------------3,641,412
1931 ....------------------2. 930, 657
1932. -------------------2,286W1

Killed

1,866
1,403
1,460
1,528
1,427
1,187
1,302
89
621
532

Injured

148,148
120,912
114,639
107,218
83, 83
66,744
57.16433,184
21,417
16,359

Total

150,012
122,315
118,099
108,746
85,310
67,931
58,468
34,082
22,038
16,891

Total
-1ult
rte Tll
per million
man-hours

30. 89
27.34
28.10
23. 88
19.38
16.21
13.84
9.38
7.52
7.3D

Decrease in frequency, 78%.

Yearrked

Total
Man-hours
Casualty
Total
Number
Number
by
Trainmn
Rate
Par
(Thousands)
Killeden Trainmen
Injured Trainmens's
Casualties Man-hours
Million

123 .......................
1924 ......................
1925 .....................
1928......................
3927 ..............------1928.------------1929 .......- ........--1930----------------..
.
1931.................-...
1932 ......................
Decreas

915,084
829,533
831,682
88.9
812,853
778,184
785, 04
673,208
548,277
431,083

896
628
691
891
39
501
587
423
292
25

3, 342
28,438
28,297
29,864
24,462
21,943

3, 238
29,066
28,989
30,555
25,101
21,444

39.60
35.04
34.8
35.59
30.88
27.63

19,116

19,703

24.96

11,771
8,259
6,318

12,194
8,551
a,58

18.11
1&65
1527

In frequency, 61%.

"Latimer,

Industrial Pension Systems, Vol. II, 724.

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

occupations as the railway industry, improvement in personnel conditions is likely to mean increased safety."
We think it not unfair to say that the claim for promotion
of safety is virtually abandoned.
How stands the case for efficiency? Here again the
record without contradiction demonstrates that in step
with the alleged progressive superannuation on the railroads their operations have increased in efficiency.11 The
trial court found, and its finding is not assigned as error:
"Railroads were, when the Act was enacted, and are now,
operated efficiently and safely and more efficiently and
much more safely than at any time in history."
Lastly the petitioners suggest that diminution of superannuation promotes economy, because younger and lower
paid men will replace the retired older men. But the
argument is based upon inadvertent disregard of the wage
structure of the carriers, especially in the train and engine
service, whereby contract compensation is based not on
age but upon the nature of the duties performed. The
replacement of one by another who is to do the same
work will therefore beget no saving in wages.

When to these considerations is added that, as heretofore said, the Act disregards fitness to work, pensions
the worker who retires at his option before any suggested
superannuation, irrespective of skill or ability, pensions
those who are presently compelled by the law to retire,
irrespective of their fitness to labor, and grants annuities
to those who are discharged for dishonesty or gross care" Thus it appears that the average speed of freight trains between
terminals in 1928 was 10.9 miles per hour, in 1929 was 13.2 miles per
hour, and in 1933 was 15.7 miles per hour. Excluding weight of locomotive and tender each freight train hour in 1923 produced 16,764
gross ton-miles; in 1929 produced 24,539 gross ton-miles; and in 1933
produced 27,343 gross ton-miles; and net ton-miles per freight train
hour increased 41.2 per cent. from 1923 to 1933, and 3.7 per cent.
from 1929 to 1933. Cost of transportation is also shown to have
decreased in the same periods.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 367
330

Opinion of the Court.

lessness, it becomes perfectly clear that, though the plan
may bring about .the social benefits mentioned in "§2a, it
has and can have no relation to the promotion of efficiency, economy or safety by separating the unfit from the
industry. If these ends demand the elimination of aged
employees, their retirement from-the service would suffice
to accomplish the object. For these purposes the prescription of a pension for those dropped from service is
wholly irrelevant. The petitioners, conscious of the truth
of this statement, endeavor to avoid its force .by the
argument that social and humanitarian considerations
demand the support of the retired employee. They assert that it would be unthinkable to retire a man without
pension and add that attempted separation of retirement and pensions is unreal in any practical sense, since
it would be impossible to require- carriers to cast old
workers aside without means ofi support.'.The supposed
impossibility arises from a failure to distinguish constitutional power from social desirability. The relation of
retirement to safety and efficiency, is distinct from the
relation of a pension to the same ends, and the two
relationships are not to be confused.
In final analysis, the petitioners' sole reliance is the
thesis that efficiency depends upon morale, and morale
in turn upon assurance of* security for the worker's old
age. Thus pensions are sought to be related to efficiency
of transportation, and brought within the commerce
power. In supporting the Act the petitioners constantly
recur to such phrases as*"old age security," "assurance
of old age security," "improvement of employee morale
and efficiency through providing definite assurance of old
age security," "assurance of old age support," "mind at
ease," and "fear of old age dependency.' These expressions are frequently cofinected with assertions that the
removal of the fear of old age dependency will tend to
create a better morale throughout the ranks of employees.

368

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

The theory is that one who has an assurance against future
dependency will do his work more cheerfully, and therefore niore efficiently. The question at once presents itself
whether the fostering of a contented mind on the part
of an employee by legislation of this type, is in any just
sense a regulation of interstate transportktion. If that
question be answered in the affirmative, obviously there
is no limit to the field of so-called regulation. The catalogue of means and actions which might be imposed upon
an employer in any business, tending to the satisfaction
and comfort of his employees, seems endless. Provision for free medical attendance and nursing, for clothing,
for food, for housing, for the education of children, and
a hundred other matters, might with equal propriety
be proposed as tending to relieve the employee of mental strain and worry. Can it fairly be said that the power
of Congress to regulate interstate commerce extends to
the prescription of any or all of these things? Is it not
apparent that they are really and essentially related
solely to the social welfare of the worker, and therefore
remote from any regulation of commerce as such? We
think the answer is plain. These matters obviously lie
outside the orbit of Congressional power. The answer
of the petitioners is that not all such means of 'promoting
contentment have such a close relation to interstate commerce as pensions. This is in truth no answer, for 'Te
must deal with the principle involired and not the means
adopted. If contentment of the employee were an object for the attainment of which the regulatory power
could be exerted, the courts could not question the wisdom of methods adopted for its advancement.
No support for a plan which pensions those who have
retired from the service of the railroads can be drawn from
the decisions of this court sustaining measures touching
the relations of employer and employee in the carrier
field in the interest of a more efficient system of transpor-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 369
330

Opinion of the Court..

tation. The Safety Appliance Acts, the Employers' Liability Acts, hours-of-service laws, and others of analogous
charhcter, cited in support of this Act, have a direct and
intimate connection with the actual operation of the railroads. No less inapposite are the statutes which deal with
exchange of facilities, joint facilities, joint rates, etc. For
these have an obvious and direct bearing on the obligations of public service incident to the calling of the railioads. The railway labor act was upheld by this court
upon the express ground that to facilitate the amicable
settlement of disputes which threatened the service of
the necessary agencies of interstate transportation tended
to prevent interruptions of service and was therefore
within the delegated power of regulation. It was pointed
out that the act did not interfere with the normal right of
the carrier to select its employees or discharge them.
Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Railway Clerics, 281 U. S.
548, 570-1. The legislation considered in Wilson v. New,
243 U. S. 332, was drafted to meet a particular texigency
and its validity depended upon circumstances so unusual
that this court's decision respecting it cannot be considered a precedent here.
Stregs is laid upon the supposed analogy between workmen's compensation laws and the challenged statute. It
a compulsory"
is said that while Congress has not adopted
and exclusive system of workmen's compensation applicable to interstate carriers, no one doubts the power so to
do; and the Retirement Act cannot in principle be distinguished. The contention overlooks fundamental differences. Every carrier owes to its employees certain
duties the disregard of which render it liable at common
law in an action sounding in tort. Each state has developed or adopted, as part of its jurisprudence, rules as to
the employer's liability in particular circumstances.
These are not the same in all the states. In the absence
of a rule applicable to all engaged in interstate transpor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tation the right of recovery for injury or death of an
employee may vary depending upon the applicable state
law. That Congress may, under the commerce power,
prescribe an uniform rule of liability and a remedy uniformly available to all those so engaged, is not open to
doubt. The considerations upon which we have sustained
compulsory workmen's compensation laws passed by the
states in the sphere where their jurisdiction is exclusive
apply with equal force in any sphere wherein Congress
has been granted paramount authority. Such authority
it may assert whenever its exercise is appropriate to the
purpose of the grant. A case in point is the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, passed
pursuant to the delegation of admiralty jurisdiction to
the United States. Modern industry, and this is particularly true of railroads, involves instrumentalities, tasks
and dangers unknown when the doctrines of the common
law as to negligence were developing. The resultant injuries to employees, impossible of prevention by the
utmost care, may well demand new and different redress
from that afforded in the past. In dealing with the situation it is permissible to substitute a new remedy for the
common-law right of action; to deprive the employer of
common-law defenses and substitute a fixed and reasonable compensation commuted to the degree of injury; to
replace uncertainty and protracted litigation with certainty and celerity of payment; to eliminate waste; and
to make the rule of compensation uniform throughout the
field of interstate transportation, in contrast with inconsistent local systems. By the very certainty that compensation must be paid for every injury such legislation
promotes and encourages precaution on the part of the
employer against accident and tends to make transportation safer and more efficient. The power to prescribe
an uniform rule for the transportation industry through-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 371
330

Opinion of the Court.

out the country justifies the modification of common law
rules by the Safety Appliance Acts and the Employers'
Liability Acts applicable to interstate carriers, and would
serve to sustain compensation acts of a broader scope,
like those in force in many states. The collateral fact
that such a law may produck, contentment among employees,-an object which as a separate and independent
matter is wholly beyond the power of Congress,-would
not, of course, render the legislation unconstitutional. It.
is beside the point that compensation would have to be
paid despite the fact that the carrier has performed its
contract with its employee and has paid the agreed wages.
Liability in tort is imposed without regard to such considerations; and in view of the risks of modern industry
the substituted liability for compensation likewise disregards them. Workmen's compensation laws deal with
existing rights and liabilities by readjusting old benefits
and burdens incident to the relation of employer and
employee. Before their adoption the employer was bound
to provide a fund to answer the lawful claims of his
employees; the change is merely in the required disbursement of that fund in consequence of the recognition that
the industry should compensate for injuries occurring with
or without fault. The Act with which we are concerned
seeks to attach to the relation of employer and employee
a new incident, without reference to any existing obligation or legal liability, solely in the interest of the employee,
with no regard to the conduct of the business, or its
safety or efficiency, but purely for social ends.
The petitioners, in support of their argument as to
morale, rely upon the voluntary systems adopted in past
years by almost all the carriers, and now in operation.
The argument runs that these voluntary plans were
adopted in the industry for two principal reasons-the
creation of loyalty and the encouragement of continuity

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

in service. The petitioners quote from a statement by the
National Industrial Conference Board the following:
"More specifically, the efficiency of the individual
workers is stimulated by the feeling of security and hopefulness that results when the individual is relieved of the
fear of destitution and dependency in old age and by the
sentiment of loyalty and good will fostered by the pension
plan, which thus operates as a spur to the ambition of the
worker and incites him to more intensive and sustained
effort. Similarly the efficiency of the organization as a
whole is increased by the improvement of industrial relations, the development of a coperative spirit, and the
promotion of constancy and continuity of employment."
They assert that the Railroad Retirement Act, "although it embodies the first compulsory retirement and
pension plan enacted in this country, is but the development of voluntary plans which have been in use in this
country, particularly among the railro.ads, for more than
a third of a century." The argument is self-contradictory.
If, as is conceded, the purpose of the voluntary establishment of pensions is to create loyalty to the employer who
establishes them, and continuity in his service, it seems
axiomatic that the removal of the voluntary character of
the pension and the imposition of it in such form as Congress may determine, upon all employers, and irrespective
of -length of service, or of service for the same employer,
will eliminate all sense of loyalty or gratitude to the employer, and remove every incentive to continuance in the
service of a single carrier. In fact the petitioners so admit,
for they say in their brief:
"That the benefits which respondents expected to derive from their voluntary pension plans (said to be (1)
greater continuity of service and (2) improved employee
loyalty) differ from those emphasized in the Retirement
Act does not affect the Act's validity, so long as it is calculated in other ways to promote efficiency and safety."

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R.. CO. 373
330

Opinion of the Court.

We are left to surmise what these "other ways" may
be unless they are the contentment and assurance of security so much stressed in the argument. The petitioners,
in effect, say: the carriers with certain objects and purposes have adopted voluntary systems; this proves that
pensions are germane to the railroad business; Congress
may legislate on any subject germane to interstate transportation; therefore Congress may for any reason or with
any motive impose any type of pension plan. The contention comes very near to this,-that whatever some carriers choose to do voluntarily in the management of their
business, at once invests Congress with the power to dompel all carriers to do. The fallacy is obvious. The meaning of the commerce and due process clauses of the Constitution is not so easily enlarged by the voluntary acts
of individuals or corporations.
Counsel for the petitioners admit that "it may well be"
voluntary plans are intended to promote efficiency and
safety by "inducing loyalty and continuity," and "it
could also be true that these means were ignored in the
Retirement Act." They add:
"Congress has deliberately chosen the means of providing old age security for all railroad employees, measured by years of service, but not dependent upon continuity of service with any particular carrier, as is required under the existing railway pension systems. If it
were true, as claimed, that the Act will not encourage
continuity of service and will remove the incentives for
employee loyalty to employer, it has other virtues, as
has been indicated; for example, it provides greater assurance to employees of old age security than has been
the case under the carriers' pension plans, and is likely
to be productive of efficiency through improvement of
employee morale."
Certainly the argument is inconsistent with any
thought that a plan imposed by statute, requiring the

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
. HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

payment of a pension, will promote the same loyalty and
continuity of service which were the ends and objects of
the voluntary plans. It is going far to say, as petitioners
do, that Congress chose the more progressive method
"already tried in the laboratory of industrial experience,"
which they claim has been approved and recommended
by those qualified to speak. In. support of the assertion,
however, they cite general works dealing with voluntary
pension plans, and not with any such compulsory system
as that with which we are concerned. We think it cannot be denied, and, indeed, is in effect admitted, that the
sole reliance of the petitioners is upon the theory that
contentment and assurance of security are the major purposes of the Act. We cannot agree that these ends if
dictated by statute, and not voluntarily extended by the
employer, encourage loyalty and continuity of service.
We feel bound to hold that-a pension plan thus imposed
is in no proper sense a regulation of the activity of interstate translortation. It is an attempt for social ends to
impose by sheer fiat non-contractual incidents upon the
relation of employer and employee, not as a rule or
regulation of commerce and transportation between the
States, but as a means of assuring a particular class of
employees against old age dependency. This is neither a
necessary nor an appropriate rule or regulation affecting the due fulfilment of the railroads' duty to serve the
public in interstate transportation.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia is
Affirmed.

The

CHMF JusTIcE,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the decision of this case. The
gravest aspect of the decision is that it does not rest
simply upon a condemnation of particular features of the
Railroad Retirement Act, but denies to Congress the
power to pass any compulsory pension act for railroad

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 375
330

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

employees. If the opinion were limited to the particular
provisions of the Act, which the majority find to be
objectionable and not severable, the Congress would be
free to overcome the objections by a new statute. Classes
of persons held to be improperly brought within the range
of the Act Could be eliminated. Criticisms of the basis of
payments, of the conditions prescribed for the receipt of
benefits, and of the requirements of contributions, could
be met. Even in place of a unitary retirement system
another sort of plan could be worked out. What was
thus found to be inconsistent with the requirements of
due process could be excised and other provisions substituted. But after discussing these matters, the majority
finally raise a barrier against all legislative action of this
nature by declaring that the subject matter itself lies
beyond the reach of the congressional authority to regulate interstate commerce. In that view, no matter how
suitably limited a pension act for railroad employees
might be with respect to the persons to be benefited, or
how appropriate the measure of retirement allowances,
or how sound actuarially the plan, or how well adjusted
the burden, still-under this decision Congress would not be
at liberty to enact such a measure. That is a conclusion
of such serious and far-reaching importance that it overshdows all other questions raised by the Act. Indeed, it
makes their discussion superfluous. The final objection
goes, as the opinion states, "to the heart of the law, even
if it could survive the loss of the unconstitutional features" which the opinion perceives, I think that the
conclusion thus reached is a departure from sound principles and places an unwarranted limitation upon the
commerce clause of the Constitution.
First.In defining the power vested in Congress to regulate interstate commerce, we invariably refer to the classic
statement of Chief Justice Marshall. It is the power "to
prescribe the rule by which commerce is to be governed."

376

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HuGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

295 U.S.

The power "is complete in itself, may be exercised to its
utmost extent, and acknowledges no limitations, other
than are prescribed in the constitution." Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 196. It is a power to enact "all appropriate legislation for the protection and advancement ",of interstate commerce. The DanielBall, 10 Wall.
557, 564. "To regulate," we said in the Second Employers Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 47, "in the sense intended,
is to foster, protect, control and restrain, with appropriate
regard for the welfare of those who are immediately concerned and of the public at large." And the exercise of
the power, thus broadly defined, has had the widest range
in dealing with railroads, which are engaged as common
carriers in interstate transportation. As their service is
vital to the nation, nothing which has a real or substantial
relation to the suitable maintenance of that service, or to
the discharge of the responsibilities which inhere in it, can
be regarded as beyond the power of regulation. The
Shreveport Case, 234 U. S. 342, 351; Dayton-Goose Creek
Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U. S. 456, 478; Colorado v.
United States, 271 U. S. 153, 163, 164; N. Y. Central Securities Corp. v. United States, 287 U. S. 12, 24, 25.
It was inevitable that, with the development of the
transportation ystem of the country, requiring a vast
number of employees, there should have been a growing
appreciation of the importance of conditions of employment. It could not be denied that the sovereign power
to govern interstate carriers extends to the regulation of
their relations with their employees who likewise are engaged in interstate commerce. The scope of this sort of
regulation has been extensive. There has been not only
the paramount consideration of safety, but also the recognition of the fact that fair treatment ihother respects aids
inconserving the peace and good order which are essential
to the maintenance of the service without disastrous interruptions, and in promoting the efficiency which inevi-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 377
330

HuGhEs, C. J., dissenting.

tably suffers from a failure to meet the reasonable demands of justice. An absolute duty to furnish safety
appliances has been imposed, restrictions of hours of continuous service have been prescribed, standards of a day's
work have been established for work and wages, the liability of carriers for injuries to employees has been regulated by the abrogation of the fellow servant rule and the
limitation of defenses as to contributory negligence and
assumption of risk, and provisions have been enacted to
facilitate the amicable settlement of disputes and to protect employees in their freedom to organize for the purpose of safeguarding their interests. St. Louis I. M. & S.
Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281; Baltimore & Ohio R.
Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 221 U. S. 612;
Wilson v. Neu), 243 U. S. 332; Texas & New Orleans R. Co.
v. Railway Clerks, 281 U. S. 548.
The argument that a pension measure, however sound
and reasonable as such, is per se outside the pale of the
regulation of interstate carriers, because such a plan
could not possibly have a reasonable relation to the ends
which Congress is entitled to serve, is largely answered
by the practice of the carriers themselves. Following precedents long established in Europe, certain railroad companies in the United States set up voluntary pension systems many years ago. It appears that the first of these
was established in 1884, another was adpoted in 1900.
By 1910, formal pension plans covered 50 per cent of all
railroad employees, and, by 1927, over 82 per cent. In
establishing these plans the carriers were not contemplating the payment of a largess unrelated to legitimate transportation ends. Their witnesses say the carriers aimed at
'loyalty and continuity of service. However limited their
motives, they acted upon business principles. Pension
plans were not deemed to be essentially foreign to the
proper conduct of their enterprises. But if retirement or
pension plans are not per se unrelated to the government

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

295 U.S.'

of transp'ortation operations, Congress could consider such

,plans, examine their utility, and reach its own conclusions. If the subject matter was open to consideration,
Congress was not limited to the particular motives which
inspired the plans of the carriers.
The Government stresses the importance of facilitating
the retirement of superannuated employees. The argument points to the conclusions of expert students as given
in the testimony below, and to the reports of investigating
committees and boards of leading business organizations.
"Employees' Retirement Annuities," Chamber of Com-

merce of the United States, 1932, pp. 7, 8; "Elements of
Industrial Pension Plan," National Industrial Confer-

ence Board, 1931, pp. 8, 10. Mr. Eastman, the Federal
Co~rdinator of Transportation, in his affidavit on the
there was exthatemployees.
the view
hearing
below, expressedamong
He
railroad
cessive superannuation
says: "This excessive superannuation is detrimental to
railroad service in several ways. Men who have grown
.old in the service decline in efficiency. The carrier pays
in wages an amount out of proportion to the service rendered. These conditions exist upon the railroads at the
presqnt time. There is now a large body of superannuated
employees in railroad service who, for the good of the
service, ought to be retired. Pension systems, of one
sort or another, have been in existence in the railroad
indusfry for as long as 50 years. The need for them was
recognized by the more progressive carriers at an early
,date. In late years particularly, with the voluntary systems in danger, the matter of retirement and pensions has
1.een a crucial issue in railroad employment. Withdrawal
or extensive curtailment of existing pensions in the
railroad industry would impair the morale of railroad
employees and play havoc with railroad labor relations.
It would, in addition, increase the existing excessive
superannuation among railroad employees and block the
employment and promotion of younger men."

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 379
330

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

The carriers deny that there is excessive superannuation. They assert that the removal of older employees
has no reasonable relation to either safety or efficiency.
The opinion of the Court enters this field of controversy,
reviews statistics as to the inctease of safety and efficiency
in operation during the period of the alleged increasing
superannuation, and supports the finding that railroads
are now operated niore efficiently and safely than at any
time in history. . But that gratifying fact does not establish that further improvement is not needed or obtainable,
or that a sound pension plan would not be of considerable
benefit to the carriers' operations. At best, the question
as to the extent of superannuation, and its effect, is a
debatable one, and hence one upon which Congress was
entitled to form a legislative judgment. As we said in
Radice v. New York, 264 U. S. 292, 294: "Where the
constitutional validity of a statute depends upon the existence of facts, courts must be cautious about reaching a
conclusion respecting them contrary to that reached by
the legislature; and if the question of what the facts
establish be a fairly debatable one, it is not permissible
for the judge to set up his opinion in respect of it against
the opinion of the lawmaker." See Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U. S. 251, 272.
Laying that question on one side, I think that it is
clear that the morale of railroad employees has an important bearing upon the efficiency of the transportation
service, and that a reasonable pension plan by its assurance of security is an appropriate means to that end. Nor
should such a plan be removed from the reach of constitutional power by classing it with a variety of conceivable
benefits which have no such close ana substantial relation
to the terms and conditions of employment. The appropriate relation of the exercise of constitutional power to
the legitimate objects of that power is always a subject
of judicial scrutiny. -With approximately 82 per cent of

380

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HUGHES,

-. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

railroad employees, 90 per cent of those employed in
cable, telephone and telegraph companies, and about onehalf of those in the service of electric railways, light, heat
and power companies under formal pension plans,' with
the extensive recognition by national, state and local
governments of the benefit of retirement and pension systems for public employees in the interest of both efficiency
and economy,' it is evident that there is a widespread
conviction that the assurance of security through a pension plan for retired employees is closely and substantially
related to the proper conduct of business enterprises.
But with respect to the carriers' plans, we are told that
as they were framed in the desire to promote loyalty and
continuity of service in the employment of particular carriers, the accruing advantages were due to the fact that
the plans were of a voluntary character. In short, that
the reaction of the employees would be simply one of
gratitude for an act of grace. I find no adequate basis for
a conclusion that the advantages of a pension plan can be
only such as the carriers contemplated or that the benefit
which may accrue to the service from a sense of security
on the part of employees should be disregarded. In that
aspect, it would be the fact that protection was assured,
and not the motive in supplying it, which would produce
the desired result. That benefit would not be lost because
the sense of security was fostered by a pension plan enforced as an act of justice. Indeed, voluntary plans may
have the defect of being voluntary, of being subject to
curtailment or withdrawal at will. And the danger of such
curtailment or abandonment, with the consequent frustration of the hopes of a vast number of railroad workers
and its effect upon labor relations in this enterprise of
Latimer, "Industrial Pension Plans," 1932, Vol. I, p. 55.
"' Public Service Retirement Systems," Bureau of Labor Statistics
(U. S.) Bulletin No. 477, 1929.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 381
330

HUGHES,

C. J., dissedting.

outstanding national importance, might well be considered as an additional reason for the adoption of a compulsory plan. Wilson v. New, supra, pp. 347, 348. There
was also testimony (by Mr. Eastman) that "the experience with the voluntary pension systems has been unsatisfactory," that" the depression brought clearly to light
their many weaknesses and uncertainties."
The argument in relation to voluntary plans discloses
the fundamental contention on the question of constitutional authority. In substance, it is that the relation of
the carriers and their employees is the subject of contract;
that the contract prescribes the work and the compensation; and that a compulsory pension plan is an attempt
for social ends to impose upon the relation non-contractual incidents in order to, insure to employees protection in their old age. And this is said to lie outside
the power of Congress in the government of interstate
commerce. Congress may, indeed, it seems to be assumed;
compel the elimination of aged employees. A retirement
act for that purpose might be passed. But not a pension
act. The government's power is conceived to be limited
to a requirement that the railroads dismiss their'superannuated employees, throwing them out helpless, without
any reasonable provision for their protection.
The argument pays insufficient'attention to the responsibilities which inhefe in the carriers' enterprise. Those
responsibilities, growing out of their relation to their
employees, cannot be regarded as confined to the contractual engagement. The range of existing federal regulation of interstate carriers affords many illustrations of
the imposition upon the employer-employee relation of
noncontractual incidents for social ends. A close analogy
to the provision of a pension plan is suggested by the
familiar examples of compensation acts. The power of
Congress to pass a compensation act to govern interstate carriers and their employees engaged in interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HUGHE,

C. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

commerce does not seem to be questioned. The carriers
might thus be compelled to provide appropriate compensation for injuries or death of employees, although caused'
without fault on the carriers' part. A thorough examination of the question of constitutional authcrity to adopt
such a compulsory measure was made some years ago by
a commission constituted under a Joint Resolution of
Congress, of which Senator Sutherland (now Mr. Justice
Sutherland) was chairman.3 36 Stat. 884. Its elaborate
and unanimous report, transmitted to Congress by President 'Taft with his complete approval, considered the constitutional question in all aspects, upheld the congressional power, and proposed its exercise. Sen. Doc. No.
338, 62d- Cong. 2d sess. Among the principles announced
was that "If the proposed legislation effectuates any constitutional power, it is not rendered unconstitutional because to a greater or less extent it may accomplish or
tend to accomplish some other result which, as a separate
and independent matter, would be'wholly beyond the
power of Congress to deal with." Id., p. 26. The'tegisiation was deemed to be a regulation of interstate commerce because, among other specified things, u ts cfect
on the state of mind of the employee. On tnis point the

commission said: "By .insuring to every- ernrfloyee engaged in interstate commerce definite comp,,aLon in
case of his injury, and-to his widow and children, or other
dependents, in case of his death, irrespective of fault, the
mind of the 'employee will, to a great extent, be relieved
from axiety for the future and he will be able to render
better and more efficient, and consequently safer, service." Id., p. 28. The commission explicitly pointed out
that the legislation which it recommended was not based
' The members of the commission were Senators George Sutherland
and George E. Chamberlain, Representatives William G. Brantley
and Reuben 0. Moon, William C. Brown, president of the New York
Central lines, and D. L. Cease, the editor of The Railroad Trainman.

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 383
330

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

on any wrong or neglect of the carrier, "but upon the fact
of injury resulting from accident in the course of the
employment," that is, that accidents should be regarded
"as risks of the industry." Id., p. 15. The circumstance
that such a compensation measure has not been enacted
by Congress is readily attributable to questions of policy
rather than to any doubt of constitutional power.
The effort to dispose of the analogy serves only to make
it the more impressive. Compensation acts are said to
be a response to the demands which inhere in the development of industrq', requiring new measures for the protection of employees. But pension measures are a similar
response. If Congress may supply a uniform rule in the
one case, why not in the other? If affording certaifity of
protection is deemed to be an aid to efficiency, why should
that consideration be ruled out with respect to retirement
allowances and be admitted to support compensation allowances for accidents which happen in the absence of
fault? Compensation acts do not simply readjust old
burdens and benefits. They add new ones, outside and
beyond former burdens and benefits, and thus in truth
add a new incident to the relation of employer and
employee.
When we go to the heart of the subject, we find that
compensation and pension measures for employees rest
upon similar basic considerations. 'In the case of compensation acts, the carrier has performed its contract with
the employee, has paid the agreed wages, has done its best
to protect the employee from injury, is guilty of no neglect, but yet is made liable for compensation for injury
or for death which ends the possibility of future service,
because in the development of modern enterprises, in
which accidents are inevitable, it has come to be recognized that the industry itself should bear its attendant
risks. New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188;
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219. An

-384

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HUGHES, C. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

attempted distinction as to pension measures for employees retired by reason of age, because old age is not in
itself a consequence of employment, is but superficial.
The common judgment takes note of the fact that the retirement of workers by reason of incapacity due to advancing years is an incident of employment and that a
fair consideration of their plight justifies retirement allowances as a feature of the service to which they have
long been devoted. This is recognized as especially fitting
in the case of large industrial enterprises, and of municipal undertakings such as police and fire protection, where
there are stable conditions of employment in which workers normally continue so long as they are able to give
service and should be retired when efficiency is impaired
by age. What sound distinction, from a constitutional
standpoint, is there .between compelling reasonable compensation for those injured without any fault of the employer, and requiring a fair allowance for those who practically give their lives to the service and are incapacitated
by the wear and tear of time, the attrition of the years?
I perceive no constitutional ground upon which the one
can be upheld and the other condemned.
The fundamental consideration which supports this
type of legislati 6 n is that industry should take care of its
human wastage, whether that is due to accident or age.
That view cannot be dismissed as arbitrary or capricious.
It is a reasoned conviction based upon abundant experience. The expression of that conviction in law is regulation. When expressed in the government of interstate
carriers, with respect to their employees likewise engaged
in in,.erstate commerce, it is a regulation of that commerce. As such, so far as the subject matter is concerned,
the commerce clause should be held applicable.
Second. With this opinion as to the validity of a pension
measure if it is reasonably conceived, we are brought to
the question of due process,-whether the paiicular pro-

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 385
330

HuGHEs, C. J., dissenting.

visions of the retirement act now before us violate the
requirement of due process which, under the Fifth
Amendment, limits the exercise of the commerce power.
The most serious of the objections, sustained by the
Court on this score, relates to the establishment of a
unitary or pooling system for all railroads. It is said
that in this respect the plan disregards the private and
separate ownership of the respective carriers, treating
them as a single. employer, and illustrations are given to
show that unequal burdens are thus imposed.
The objection encounters previous decisions of this
Court. We have sustained a unitary or group system
under state compensation acts against the argument under
the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendmient.
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, supra. The Washington compensation act established a state fund for the
compensation of workmen injured in hazardous employment, and the fund was maintained by compulsory contributions from employers in such industries. While
classes of industries were established, each class was made
liable for the accidents occurring in that class. The
Court described the law as so operating that "the enforced contributions of the employer are to be made
whether injuries have befallen his own employees or not,
so that however prudently one may manage his business,
even to the point of immunity to his employees from
accidental injury or death, he nevertheless is required to
make periodical contributions to a fund for making compensation to the injured employees of his perhaps negligent competitors." Id., pp. 236, 237. The statute was
sustained in the view that its provisions did not rest upon
the wrong or neglect of employers, but upon the responsibility which was deemed to attach to those who conducted such industries. The Court concluded "that the
State acted within its power in declaring that no employer should conduct such an industry without making

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

295

U. S.

stated and fairly apportioned contributions adequate to
maintain a public fund for indemnifying injured employees and the dependents of those killed, irrespective of the
particular plant in which the accident might happen to
occur." Id., p. 244. We followed the reasoning which
had led to the upholding of state laws imposing assessments on state banks generally in order to create a guaranty fund to make good the losses of deposits in insolvent
banks. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 104. See
Abie State Bank v. Bryan, 282 U. S. 765.
But, aside from these analgies, this Court has directly
sustained the grouping of railroads for the purpose of
regulation in enforcing a common policy deemed to be
essential to an adequate national system of transportation, even though it resulted in taking earnings of a strong
road to help a weak one. This was the effect of the recapture clause of Transportation Act, 1920, which required carriers to contribute their earnings in excess of a
certain amount in order to provide a fund to be used by
the Interstate Commerce Commission in making loans to
other carriers. Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United
States, 263 U. S. 456. A distinction is sought to be made
because the carriers, which kere required to contribute,
were permitted to retain a reasonable return upon their
property. But what the strong roads were compelled to
contribute were their own earnings resulting from just
and reasonable rates,--earnings which they were as clearly
entitled to retain for their own benefit as the moneys
which in the present instance are to be devoted to retirement allowances. The fact that the recapture provisions
failed of their purpose and have been abandoned does not
disturb the decision as to constitutional power. The principle that was applied had been made clear in the New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. Transportation
Act, 1920, had introduced into the f~deral legislation a
new railroad policy. To attain its purpose, "new rights

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 387
330

H-UGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

new obligations, new machinery, were created." "To preserve for the nation substantially the whole transportation system was deemed important." "The existence of
the varying needs of the several lines and of their widely
varying earning power was fully realized." To attain the
object "two new devices were adopted: the group system
of rate making and the division of joint rates in the public
interest. Through the former, weak railroads were to be
helped by recapture from prosperous c6mpetitors of surplus revenues. Through the latter, the weak were to be
helped by preventing needed revenue from passing to
prosperous connections. Thus, by marshaling the revenues, partly through capital account, it was planned to
distribute augmented earnings, largely in proportion to
the carriers' needs." Id., pp. 189-191.
This object of adequately maintaining the whole transportation system may be served in more than these two
ways. The underlying principle is that Congress has the
power to treat the transportation system of the country
as a unit for the purpose of regulation in the public
interest, so long as particular railroad properties are not
subjected to confiscation. In the light of that principle,
and of applications which have been held valid, I am unable to see that the establishment of a unitary system of
retirement allowances for employees is beyond constitutional authority. Congress was entitled to weigh the advantagesof such a system, as against inequalities which
it would inevitably produce, and reach a conclusion as to
the policy best suited to the needs of the country. See
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186, 203; Railroad Commission v. Southern Pacific Co.,
264 U. S. 331, 343, 344.
Third. Questions are raised as to the classes of persons
to be benefited. In considering these objections we
should have regard to the explicit provision of the Act as
to severability. It states that if "any provision," "or the

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
HuGHs, C. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

application thereof to any person or circumstances," is
held invalid, "the remainder of the Act or application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not
be affected." This, of course, does not permit us to rewrite the statute but it does allow the excision of invalid
provisions, or inclusions, which can be severed without
destroying its structure.
(1) The court below held the Act to be invalid in the
view that its provisions were extended to persons not
engaged in interstate commerce. In the special findings,
classes of persons were listed, numbering 211,107, which
were thought to fall within that description. It is manifest that the list was prepared under a misapprehension
of the extent of the authority of Congress with respect to
employees of interstate carriers and of the application of
the decision in the first Employers' Liability Cases, 207
U. S. 463. Large numbers of employees were thus deemed
to be improperly included whose work, while not immediately connected with the moverment of traffic, did have
such relation to the activities of the carriers in interstate
commerce as to bring them within the range of congressional power. Thus the list embraced general officers and
their staffs who were not in the operating departments
connected with transportation, employees who dealt with
the receipt and disbursement of moneys, some 86,493
employees in the maintenance-of-equipment departments,
who were engaged in the reconstruction or major repair
of equipment, withdrawn for that purpose from service,
such as locomotives, cars, platform trucks, frogs, switches,
etc., as distinguished from light or running repairs, and
36,996 employees whose duties lay in auditing, accounting,
and bookkeeping. It should be observed that the decisions under the Second Employers' Liability Act of 1908,
with respect to the necessity of the employee being engaged at the time of his injury in interstate transportation or in work so closely related to transportation as to

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 389
330

HUGHES,C.

J., dissenting.

be a part of it, are based upon the limitations of that
statute and do not define the scope of constitutional
authority as to employees of interstate carriers. Illinois
Central R. Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 477; Chicago &
Northwestern Ry. Co. v. Bolle, 284 U. S. 74, 78.
Interstate carriers cannot conduct their interstate operations without general officers and their staffs, without
departments for major repairs and those for administering finances and keeping accounts. General management is as important to the interstate commerce of the
carriers as is the immediate supervision of traffic, and the
proper maintenance of equipment and the handling of
moneys and the keeping of books are as necessary as the
loading and moving of cars. In the administration of the
Act there would be ample opportunity to make all necessary distinctions between employees engaged in intestate commerce and any others who might be found to be
otherwise exclusively employed, so as to exclude the latter from its benefits without impairing the general operation of the Act.
(2) A more serious objection relates to the eligibility
for allowances of all those who were in the service within
one year prior to the enactment, although they may never
be rqmployed. Such persons may have been discharged
for cause; in any event, for one reason or another, they
had left the service and may not return.
I agree with the conclusion that the requirement that
the carriers shall pay retiring allowances to such persons
is arbitrary and beyond the power of Congress. But I
think it clear that the provision for their benefit is within
the clause as to severability. That application of the Act
may be condemned and such persons may be excluded
from benefits without destroying the measure as a whole.
Fourth. Other questions relate to the details of the
pension plan-principally with respect to the basis of
the retirement allowances and the method of their
computation.

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1984.
HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

With the excision of those whose employment was terminated before the Act was passed, the plan would cover
those in carrier service at that time and those subsequently employed. Retirement is compulsory at the age'
of 65, but the service may be exfended by agreement for
successive periods of one year each until the age of 70.
An employee may retire upon completing 30 years of
service, but in such case provision is made for reducing
the annuity by one-fifteenth for each year below the age
of 65. Annuities are calculated by applying graduated
percentages of the employee's average monthly compensation (excluding all over $300) to the number of years
of his service, not exceeding 30. The maximum annuity
thus payable would be $1440, and to receive that amount,
it would be necessary for the employee to have been in
service 30 years and to have attained the age of 65, and
to have been paid an average monthly compensation of
$300. Contributions to the pension fund are to be made
by employees of a certain percentage of their compensation and the contribution of each carrier is to be twice
that of its employees.
An examination of pension plans in operation reveals
a variety of possible methods, and Congress was entitled
to make its choice. As a basis for the allowance, Corigress
could select either age or length of service or both. In
the selection of any age, or any period of service, anomalies would inevitably occur in particular applications.
Extreme illustrations can always be given of the application of regulations which require the drawing of a line
with respect to age, time, distances, weights, sizes, etc.
To deny the right to select such criteria, or to make
scientific precision a criterion of constitutional authority,
would be to roake impossible the practical exercise of
power. Compare Sproles v. Binford, 286 U. S. 374, 388,
389; Stanley v. Public Utilities Commission of Maine,
ante, p. 76. Whatever may be said of the capacity of
many men after they have attained 65 years, the fixing

RETIREMENT BOARD v. ALTON R. CO. 391
330

HUGHES,

C. J., dissenting.

of that age or a period of 30 years' service, or a combination of both, for general application, cannot be regarded
as an arbitrary choice for railroad employees.
The principal criticism is the bringing into the reckoning of past periods of service-antedating the passage of
the Act. The objection is strongly put with respect to
those who were in the employment of the carriers when
the Act was passed, and it is even more earnestly urged
as to those who had left the service and later are regm"ployed. It is said that the reckoning of their prior periods
of employment compels payment for services fully completed and paid for before the enactment. But it seems
to be assumed that Congress could compel the dismissal
of aged employees, and if it has that power and also has
power to establish a pension system, I can find no ground
for erecting a constitutional limitation which would make
it impossible to provide for employees who were thus severed from the service. The question simply is-What is
a fair basis for computing a retirement allowance? Is the
plan adopted by Congress destitute of rational support?
Congress could haveprovided for a retirement allowance in a flat sum, or could have based it upon the amount
of compensation which -the employee was receiving at the
time of retirement, or upon the amount he had received
for the preceding year or his average compensation of a
longer time. Selecting a period not to exceed 30 years,
or 'the period of service prior to age 65, merely gives a
measure for the computation of the retirement allowance.
It is in no proper sense a payment for the prior service,
any more than would be the fixing of the allowance at a
flat figure or on the basis of the last compensation received. The result in dollars and cents might not vary
to any great extent whatever method of calculation was
chosen.
The power committed to Congress to govern interstate
,ommerce does not require that its government should be
wise, much less that it should be perfect.. The power

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

implies a broad discretion and thus permits a wide range
even of mistakes. Expert discussion of pension plans
reveals different views of the manner in which they should
be set up and a close study of advisable methods is in
progress. It is not our province to enter that field, and
I am not persuaded that Congress in entering it for the
purpose of regulating interstate carriers, has transcended
the limits of the authority which the Constitution confers.
I think the decree should be reversed.
I am authorized to state that MR. JusTICE BRANDEmS,
MR. JusTicE STONE, and MR. JusacdCAmozo join in this

opinion.
PETERS PATENT CORP. v. BATES & KLINKE,
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 601. Argued April 12, 1935.-Decided.May 13,i 1935.
1. A sale by a patentee of all his interest in a pending suit to enjoin
infringement and for an accounting, but passing no right in the
patent, gives the purchaser no right to an injunction and hence
no right to intervene. P. 394.

2. It is the right to an injunction which underlies the equitable
jurisdiction in such suits. Id.
3. A plantiff in a suit to enjoin infringement of his patent and for an
accounting, who sells his entire interest in the suit but retains the
patent, can Ao longer maintain the suit. Id.

Certiorari to review 73 F. (2d) 303, dismissed.
CERTIORARI,

294 U. S. 700, to review the reversal of an

interlocutory decree of injunction, 4 F. Supp. 259, in a
patent case.

