ICKES v. DEVELOPMENT CORP.
632

Syllabus.

gives no support to the claim that it disregarded or intended to break its promises. We conclude that, as found
by the lower courts-rightly declining to follow the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit

in Federal Life Ins. Co. v. Rascoe, supra, 696--the company did not repudiate the policies. In view of that fact,
we need not, and therefore do not, decide whether the
doctrine of anticipatory breach is applicable to the class
of cases to which this one belongs. Dingley v. Oler, ubi
supra.
Affirmed.

ICKES, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, v. VIRGINIA-COLORADO DEVELOPMENT CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 23. Argued Otober 16, 1934.-Decided June 3, 1935.
1. Under R. S., § 2324, a default in performance of annual labor on
a mining claim renders it subject to relocation by some other
claimant; but it does not affect the locator's rights as regards the
United States; and he is entitled to preserve his claim by resuming
work after default and before relocation. P. 644.
2. The Secretary of the Interior has authority to determine that a
claim is invalid for lack of discovery, for fraud, or other defect, or
that it is subject to cancellation for abandonment. P. 645.
3. With respect to specified minerals, including oil shale, the Mineral
Leasing Act of 1920 substituted a leasing system for the old system
of acquisition by location. It excepts, however, valid claims
existent at the date of the passage of the Act and thereafter
"maintained" in compliance with the laws under which initiated,
"which claims may be perfected under such laws." Plaintiff had
valid oil shale placer locations, located in 1917 and sustained by
performance of annual labor in the years following, until the year
ending July 1, 1931, when there was a default, but with no intention to abandon the claims. Two months later, while plaintiff was
preparing to resume work, the Land Department began adverse

640

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

295 U. S.

proceedings in which it declared that, because of the default, the
claims were void. Held, that the case was within the exception in
the Mineral Leasing Act, and that the proceedings were without
authority and were properly enjoined in a suit against the Secretary of the Interior. P. 645.
63 App. D. C. 47; 69 F. (2d) 123, affirmed.

292 U. S. 620, to review the affirmance of
a decree requiring the Secretary of the Interior to vacate
adverse proceedings against plaintiff's oil shale locations
and his decision declaring the locations void.
CERTIoRARI,

Assistant Attorney General Blair, with whom Solicitor
General Biggs and Mr. H. Brian Holland were on the
brief, for petitioner.
The question presented is the one which was reserved
in Wilbur v. Krushnic, 280 U. S. 306, 317, 318.
The only requirement for the maintenance of a claim
under the old mining law, once the claim had been perfected, was the requirement in R. S., § 2324 as to annual
assessment work. The frequency with which "main-,
tained," or equivalent expressions, such as "kept up,"
"kept alive," "preserved," are encountered in the opinions of this Court in connection with annual assessment
work (see Gwillim v. Donnellan, 115 U. S. 45, 48; El
Paso Brick Co. v. McKnight, 233 U. S. 250, 256; Union
Oil Co. v. Smith, 249 U. S. 337, 349; Cole v. Ralph, 252
U. S. 286, 295) shows that those words had a well-understood meaning. This Court appears to have attributed
this meaning to the word "maintained," in the Leasing
Act. Krushnic case, supra.
The obligation to perform annual assessment labor was
a condition subsequent to the right of exclusive possession
granted by the United States. Union Oil Co. v. Smith,
supra; Black v. Elkhorn Mining Co., 163 U. S. 445, 450.
Failure to comply with the condition opened the claim
to relocation by another. It did not, however, result in

ICKES v. DEVELOPMENT CORP.
639

Argument for Petitioner.

forfeiture of the claim as against the Government, for the
Government had no direct interest in the matter, being
concerned only with seeing that its mineral-bearing lands
were kept open for private exploitation. Rev. Stats.,
§ 2319; 30 U. S. C. 22; Union Oil Co. v. Smith, supra,
p. 346; Cole v. Ralph, 252 U. S. 286, 294; Chambers v.
Harrington, 111 U. S. 350, 353.
It may be assumed that the Government's interest in
preventing its mineral lands from being monopolized by
those who were unwilling or unable to develop them was
sufficiently protected by exposing lbcators to the risk of
having their claims appropriated by rival claimants. In
any event, it is obvious that no good purpose was to be
served by permitting repossession by the Government
itself, when the Government had no intention of doing
anything but reassign the land to some other private individual for his own use and benefit.
The Leasing Act effected a complete change of policy
in respect of lands containing oil and oil shale. Relocation became impossible, the Government's offer to locators having been withdrawn. Thus the locator who fails
to perform assessment work no longer runs the risk of
having his claim appropriated by a rival claimant, and
if the court below was correct in holding that the Government may not take advantage of the default, the right
which was subject to a condition when initiated is now
unconditional. Such a result would be out of. harmony
with the evident policy of both the old mining law and
the 1920 Act. It would hinder the disposition of lands
under the Act and deprive the Government of royalties,
although the lands were not being diligently exploited by
the claimant.
If the locator fails to perform annual labor, then, by
the terms of the Leasing Act the United States is given
the right to challenge the validity of the claim by reason
of such default. The possibility of relocation is taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

away and the possibility of intervention substituted.
The risk is substantially the same.
Under the decision below, the status of lands containing any of the minerals named in the Leasing Act would
be extremely difficult of ascertainment if the title is
clouded by notices of location made prior to 1920. The
Government would be put to the necessity of establishing by evidence aliunde that the claims had been abandoned, for abandonment depends largely on intention,
and mere absence or failure to work the claim for any
definite time is not sufficient to prove that it has been
abandoned. Black v. Elkhorn Mining Co., supra; Peachy
v. Frisco Gold Mines Co., 204 Fed. 659. See also Lindley,
Mines, 3d ed., §§ 642-644.
The Secretary of: the Interior had implied authority to
institute proceedings to resume possession for the Government. Cameron v. United States, 252 U. S. 450, 459,
460, 461; Federal Shale Oil Co., -53 L. D. 213, 216-217.
Mr. Louis Titus, with whom Mr. Charles L. Fraileywas
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The Virginia-Colorado Development Corporation
brought this suit to obtain a mandatory injunction
against the Secretary of the Interior requiring him to
vacate certain adverse proceedings and his decision declaring certain placer claims of the plaintiff to be void.
Motion to dismiss the bill of complaint was denied and, on
defendant's refusal to plead further, plaintiff obtained a
decree which the Court of Appeals affirmed. 63 App.
D. C. 47; 69 F. (2d) 123. This Court granted. a writ of
certiorari, 292 U. S. 620, in view of the question as to the
construction of the Mineral Leasing Act, February 25,
1920, c. 85, 41 Stat. 437; 30 U. S. C. 181, 193.

ICKES v. DEVELOPMENT CORP.
639

64a

Opinion of the Court.

The bill alleged that in June, 1917, under § 2324 of
the Revised Statutes (30 U.-S. C. 28), plaintiff located
certain oil shale placer claims on mineral lands of the
United States in Colorado- and thereupon became the
owner of the claims and entitled to their exclusive possession; that from that time until, and including, the year
ending July 1, 1930, the annual assessment work required
by the statute was performed on each of the claims; that
during the year ending July 1, 1931, the assessment work
was not performed and had not been resumed before
September 4, 1931, or since, but that plaintiff then intended to resume work, and had made arrangements for
that resumption which would have been had but for the
action of defendant; that plaintiff had not abandoned, or
intended to abandon, any of the claims and that no charge
to that effect had been made; that about September 4,
1931, adverse proceedings were initiated by the Department of the Interior, through the General Land Office,
with the filing of a "challenge" to plaintiff's title and
right of possession and by "posting such challenge on the
said claims "; that the challenge was based on the sole
ground that plaintiff had not performed the annual assessment work and that "the United States resumed possession of said land."
Plaintiff further alleged that there had been -'no relocation of any of the claims by any person since plaintiff's
failure to perform the annual assessment work, and that
there had been no application by anyone to lease any of
the claims from the United States." Plaintiff recited
the answer he had made to the challenge, in substance,
that notwithstanding his failure to perform the. described
work, he had the right to retain possession of the claims
and to resume work thereon " at any time prior to a valid
subsequent location of said claims"; but that the Commissioner of the General Land Office had held that the
claims were null and void, and his ruling had been af-

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

firmed by the Secretary of the Interior whose decision had
been promulgated declaring that the United States had
taken possession for its own purposes, thus in effect decreeing a forfeiture.
Plaintiff then set forth the provisions of the Mineral
Leasing Act of February 25, 1920, which authorized the
Secretary of the Interior to execute leases of mineral
lands, but contained an exception as to valid claims existing on the date of the passage of the Act "and thereafter maintained in compliance with the laws under which
initiated, which claims may be perfected under such
laws, including discovery." 1
.1. The character and extent of the right which plaintf acquired by virtue of its location of the mining claims,
in 1917, are well establighed. Resiating the rule declared
by many decisions, we said in Wilbur v. Krushnic, 280
U. S. 306, 316, that such a location, perfected under the
law, "has the effect of a grant by the United States of
the right of present and exclusive possession. The claim
is property in the fullest sense of that term." It is alien:
able, inheritable, and taxable. See Forbes v. Graicey, 94
U. S. 762, 767; Belk v.-Meagher, 104 U. S. 279, 283;'
Manuel v. Wulif, 152 U. S. 505, 510, 511;,Elderv. Wood,
208 U. S. 226, 232; Bradford v. Morrison, 212 U. S. 389,
1

Section 37 of the Act of February 25, 1920) c. 85, 41 Stat. 437,
451 (30 U. S, C. 193) is as follows:
"Sec. '37. That the deposits of coal, phosphate, sodium, oil, oil
shale, and gas, herein referred to, in lands valuable for such minerals,
including lands and deposits described in the joint resolution entitled
' Joint resolution authorizing the Secretary of the Interior to permit
the continuation of coal mining operations on certain lands in Wyoming,' approved August 1, 1912 (Thirty-seventh Statutes at Large,
p. 1346), shall be subject to disposition only in the form and manner
provided in this Act, except as to valid claims existent at date of the
passage of this Act and thereafter maintained in compliance with the
laws under which initiated, which claims may be perfected under such
laws, including discovery."

ICKES v. DEVELOPMENT CORP.
639

Opinion of the Court.

394. Under § 2324 of the Revised Statutes (30 U. S. C.
28), the owner is required to perform labor of the value
of $100 annually, but a failure to do so does not ipso facto
forfeit his claim, but only renders it subject to loss by
relocation. The law is clear "that no relocation can be
made if work be resumed after default and before such
relocation." Thus, prior to the passage of the Leasing
Act of 1920, the annual performance of labor "was not
necessary to preserve the possessory right, with all the
incidents of ownership above stated, as against the United
States, but only as against subsequent relocators. So
far as the government was concerned, failure to do assessment work for any year was without effect. Whenever
$500 worth of labor in the aggregate had been performed,
other requirements aside, the owner became entitled to a
patent, even though in some years annual assessment
labor had been omitted." Wilbur v. Krushnic, supra.
There was authority in the Secretary of the Interior, by
appropriate proceedings, to determine that a claim *was
invalid for lack of discovery, fraud, or other defect, or that
it was subject to cancellation by reason of abandonment.
Cameron v. United States, 252 U. S. 450, 460; Cole v.
Ralph, 252 U. S. 286, 296; Black v. Elkhorn Mining Co.,
163 U. S. 445, 450; Brown v. Gurney, 201 U. S. 184, 192,
193; Farrellv. Lockhart, 210 U. S. 142, 147.
2. The Leasing Act of 1020 inaugurated a new policy.
Instead of the acquisition of rights by location, the Act
provided for leases. But by express provision, the Act
saved existing valid claims "thereafter maintained in
compliance with the laws under which initiated, which
2
claims may be perfected under such laws." § 37.
What then was the status of plaintiff's claims under this
exception? They were originally valid claims. No question is raised to the contrary. There is no suggestion of
'See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

lack of discovery, fraud or other defect. There is no
ground for a charge of abandonment. The allegations of
the bill, admitted by the motion to dismiss, dispose of
any such contention. Plaintiff had lost no rights by
failure to do the annual assessment work; that failure
gave the government no ground of forfeiture. Wilbur v.
Krushnic, supra.
How could the valid claims of plaintiff be "thereafter
maintained in compliance with the laws under which
initiated "? Manifestly, by a resumption of work. Plaintiff was entitled to resume, and the bill alleged that plaintiff had made arrangements for resumption, and that work
would have been resumed if the Department of the
Interior had not intervened. Plaintiff's rights after resumption would have been as if "no default had
occurred." Belk v. Meagher, supra. Such a resumption
would have been an act "not in derogation but in affirmance of the original location," and thereby the claim
would have been "maintained." As we said in Wilbur v.
Krushnic, supra, p. 318, "Such resumption does not
restore a lost estate . . .; it preserves an existing estate."
In this view, plaintiff came directly within the exception. The Government invokes the new policy of the
Leasing Act abolishing the practice of location. But the
saving provision of § 37 is a part of the policy of the Act.
Its terms explicitly declare the will of Congress as to
valid existing claims, with full understanding of the status
of such claims under -the prior law.
The Government refers to the reservation in the opinion
in Wilbur v. Krushnic, supra, as to the maintenance of
a claim by a resumption of work "unless at least some
form of challenge on behalf of the United States to the
valid existence of the claim has intervened." But that
was a reservation, not a decision, and it does not aid the
Government in its contention here. To be effective, the

MINNIE v. PQRT HURON CO.

647

Opinion of the Court.

639

"challenge" to the "valid existence" of a claim must
have some proper basis. No such basis is shown.
We think that the Department's challenge, its adverse
proceedings, and the decision set forth in the bill went
beyond the authority conferred by law. The decree is
Affirmed.
MINNIE v. PORT HURON TERMINAL CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 678.

Argued April 12, 1935.-Decided June 3, 1935.

A longshoreman, while unloading 'a vessel in navigable water, was
swept from the deck by the ship's hoist and precipitated upon the
wharf, where he was hurt by the fall. Held that the cause of
action was in admiralty. P. 648.
269 Mich. 295; 257 N. W. 831, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 704, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Michigan vacating an award of the
state compensation commission.Mr. Eugene F. Black, with whom Mr. Jesse P. Wolcott
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leo J. Carriganfiled a brief on behalf of respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner, a longshoreman, was injured at Port Huron
while unloading a vessel lying in navigable water. He
was about his work on the deck of the vessel when he
was struck by a swinging hoist, lifting cargo from a hatch,
and was precipitated upon the wharf. He sought compensation under the compensation act of the State of
Michigan. His employer, the Port Huron Terminal Company, contended that the accident occurred upon navi-

