64

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

DOTY ET A.

295 U. S.

v. LOVE, SUPERINTENDENT OF
BANKS.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 585. Argued March 11, 12, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.
1. The constitutional rights of a depositor of an insolvent state bank,
which is in the hands of a liquidating official under direction of
a state court; are held not violated by the adoption, under a later
statute, of a plafi consented to by three-fourths of the depositors
and approved by the liquidating official and the court, whereby,
instead of bringing about liquidation and distribution of the assets
through the officer as provided by the general law, the bank was
reopened in a reorganized form with new shareholders and took
the place of the officer for the purpose of gathering and guarding
the assets and discharging the liabilities. P. 70.
2' The statute is not given an unconstitutional application because,
by the plan approved and decreed under it, some of the assets of
the old bank are risked in the business of the new one, this being
done to impr6ve the chances of collection for the benefit of
existing creditors, and provision being made to insure that the
equivalent of such assets shall be repaid the creditors or be deposited
in a fund held by the new bank for their benefit, before any profits
of its business shall inure to its shareholders. P. 71.
3. To make such a reorganization possible, some of the shareholders
of the old bank contributed capital to the new one in return for
its shares, upon which they became personally liable, and were
released from lersonal liability on their old shares. Held that the
release did not infringe constitutional rights of non-assenting creditors, since it was a necessary incident to the plan for the protection of all and was but an exercise of the power of the liquidating
officer, with approval of the court, to compromise claims of
uncertain collectibility and value upon terms beneficial to his trust.
P. 72.
4. Mere error in judgment in the compromising of claims of an
insolvent bank by state officials in charge of its liquidation, is not
an unconstitutional taking of the property rights or impairment of
the contract rights of non-assenting creditors. P. 73.
5. It is not an unconstitutional discrimination against depositors of
an insolvent bank to pay in full the claims of other banks which

DOTY v. LOVE.
64

Opinion of the Court.

are fully secured by collateral, or to discharge in full other deposit
accounts which are so small that it will be more economical to
pay them than to incur bookkeeping expenses incidental to calculation of dividends. P. 74.
6. One who has appeared generally and been fully heard upon the
merits can not complain of insufficiency of notice to others. P. 74.
172 Miss. 342; 155 So. 331, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree of the Court of
Chancery in Mississippi, which ordered the reopening of
a closed bank under a plan approved and presented to it
by the Superintendent of Banks. The appellants were
two of the depositors who did not assent but whose objections were overruled.
Messrs. Charles S. Mitchell and Elmer C. Sharp for
appellants.
Messrs. Hiram H. Creekmore and C. Richard Bolton,
with whom Mr. Clyde L. Hester was on the brief, for
appellee.
MR. JusTicE CAPDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A statute of Mississippi, adopted in 1932, permits the
reopening of closEd banks upon terms proposed by threefourths of the creditors in number or in value if the plan
is approved by the Superintendent of Banks and confirmed by the Court of Chancery. A ba-ik has been
reopened in accordance with this statute. The question
is whether contractual rights have been impaired or rights
of property annulled in contravention of the provisions
of the Constitution o the United States.
The People's Bank & Trust Company of Tupelo, Mississippi, closed its doors on December 24, 1930. In accordance with the statutes then in force (Code of 1930,
§ 3817), the Superintendent of Banks took charge of the
busihess and proceeded to liquidate it, his action being

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

subject at all times to the supervision of the Court of
Chancery. The bank owed about $200,000 for public
moneys on deposit. These were preferred claims under
the laws of Mississippi, and were paid in full. It owed
for bills'payable and rediscounts $457,500, amply secured
by collateral. These also were paid in full, the security
being unaffected by liquidation or insolvency. Out of
the remaining assets, so far .as they would serve, the
liquidator would have to pay the general deposits (about
$1,450,000) as well as any other debts. There was also
available for the protection of depositors the personal
liability of the shareholders to the extent of the par value
of their shares, a liability which under the statute was to
be " enforced in a suit at law or in equity by any such
bank in process of liquidation, or by the superintendent
of banks, or other officer succeeding to the legal rights of
said bank." Mississippi Code, § 3815. The share capital
of the bank was $200,000, and the personal liability of
the shareholders would have added a like amount to the
assets if all the shareholders had paid in full.
In the fall of 1932, after about two years of liquidation
by the Superintendent of Banks, a movement was started
by a large number of depositors to set the bank upon its
feet. For help in that endeavor, they had recourse to
methods made available by a statute adopted in May,
1932, which is quoted in the margin.* Laws of Missis" Section 1. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Mississippi, That the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Mississippi be authorized to reopen any closed bank, with the approval
of the chancery court of the county in which the bank is situated, or
of the chancellor in vacation, when at least three-fourths of" the general depositors and creditors therein, or any number of the general
depositors and creditors therein provided they own at, least threefourths of the deposits in or claims against such bank, agree to the
reopening thereof and sign what is commonly termed a 'freezing-ofdeposits agreement,' under which they agree to accept repayment of
their deposits and claims over a period of years, for the full amount

DOTY v. LOVE.
64

67

Opinion of the Court.

sippi, 1932, c. 251; supplement to Mississippi Code of
1930, § 3817-1. The substance of the statute is that the
Court of Chancery shall have power to reopen a closed
thereof or in reduced amounts, with or without interest, the period
over which the deposits and claims are to be repaid and the rate of
payment, together with the inferest rate, if any, to be determined
by the ruperintendent of banks, provided the superintendent of banks
is convinced that such bank is in solvent condition and can repay
the depositors the amounts -of their deposits in accordance with-the
terms of the agreement for the repayment of same. But, before any
such bank shall be reopened, the entire plan for the reopening of
same, and all facts in connection therewith, shall be. submitted by
the superintendent of banks to the chancery' court of the county in
which the bank is situated, or to the chancellor in vacation, by proper
petition, duly verified, such petition to contain a -statement of he
assets and liabilities of the bank and such other information as may
be necessary to convey to the court or chancellor the true facts with'
reference to the condition of such bank, and a decre4"of the court
or of the chancellor in vacation obtained approving the plan agreed
upon for the reopening of such bank and authorizing the same to be
reopened.
"Section 2. When any closed bank has been reopened as herein
provided, the general depositors and creditors thereof who have not
expressly agreed to accept the repayment of their deposits and clainis
in accordance with the freezing-of-deposits plan shall be bound.to
accept repayment of their deposits and cla'ims on the same basis and
at the same rate as those general depositors and creditors who have"
signed the freezing-of-deposits agreement, but this shall not apply to
public depositors or to those depositors and cieditors 'holding preferred claims, or secured claims, nor to correspondent banks holding
bills payable of the closed bank.. Proper provision must be made in
the plaif for the reopening of such bank to pay public. depositors,'.
depositors and creditors'holding preferred claims and secured claims,
ana correspondent banks, on terms acceptable to them, but any ax,rangement so made shall not operate prqjudicially to the rights of the
general depositors and creditors of the bank.
"Section 3. That this Act shall not be construed to give the super-'
intendent of banks the right "to diminish the assets of a closed bank
to the prejudice of the depositors and creditois thereof, and any
asset that may be charged out as doubtful or as losses shall be held
by the bank and collected for the" benefit of its depositors and'

OCTOBER TERM, 1934
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

bank in accordance with a plan proposed by at least threefourths of the creditors and recommended by the Superintendent, if the court is satisfied that the plan is feasible
and just. Upon the approval of such a plan, assenting
and non-assenting creditors shall be required to accept
payment in accordance with its terms. The Superintendent shall have no power to diminish to the prejudice
of creditors any assets that otherwise would be available
for payment. Liquidation by the bank itself, though in
a reorganized form, is to be substituted for liquidation at
the hands of a statutory receiver.
Resorting to that statute, about eighty per cent of the
creditors signed a "freezing-of-deposits agreement" prescribing a time and method for the payment of the debts.
The bank, when reorganized, was to have a capital of
$55,000 and a surplus of $45,000, a total capital and surplus of $100,000. Shareholders of the old bank, having
shares of the par value of $110,000, were to contribute the
new capital ($55,000, or 50% of their old holdings) in
cash or its equivalent. In consideration of this payment,
they were to be released from any other liability on the
old shares, though the statutory liability would attach
automatically to the new ones if the reorganized bank
were to go under. Shareholders not contributing to capital (representing $90,000 of the old shares) were to remain personally liable as if no plan had been adopted.
Of the claims against the old bank as distinguished from
those against the shareholders, twenty-five per cent were
to be assumed by the reopened bank; seventy-five per
cent were to be a charge upon certain assets which were
creditors, and all amounts so collected shall be held by the bank to be
paid to them in accordance with the agreement for the repayment of
their deposits and claims.
"Section 4. That this act shall be in force from and after its
passage.
"Approved May 18, 1932."

DOTY v. LOVE.
64

Opinion of the Court.

to be placed in a pool and made to realize what they
could. Assets having ar estimated value in excess of
the liabilities assumed were to be turned over to the reopened bank to enable it to make good its promise: This
was the primary source of payment, though the covenant
of assumption was to be back of it. Out of the assets so
delivered deposits of $5 or less, amounting in all to
$3,649.87, were to be paid in full. All other claims then
outstanding for deposits or other debts were to be ratably
satisfied up to the limit of twenty-five per cent, five per
cent at once, and the remaining twenty per cent in five
per cent instalments as the assets turned over to the
reopened bank were converted into cash, the process of
conversion being subject to the supervision of the court.
-Proceeds of collection in excess of the twenty-five per cent
were not to be retained, but were to be paid into the pool.
Certain other assets having an estimated value of $45,000
were turned over to the reopened bank for surplus or reserve. This amount was to be repaid out of the net
earnings at the rate of $7,500*a year by additions to the
pool. No dividends were to be declared upon the shares
of the reopened bank till all the liabilities assumed by it
had been satisfied completely. The assets d6posited in
the pool were to be administered by the bank as a trust
for the benefif of creditors. Many other details would
have to be stated to exhibit tle plan fully. For an understanding of the objections.the outline given will suffice.
The Superintendent of Banks filed a petition in the
Court of Chancery approving the plan and recommending its adoption. Notice of hearing was served by publication upon the 5,000 creditors affected, as well as personally upon some of them selected by the court as representing the interests of all. Only a few creditors opposed
the granting of the petition. Some of these withdrew
their objections at the close of the hearing with the result
that the number-of opponents was reduced to Fix. After*

"70.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

full consideration, the court on May 15, 1933, entered a
decree overruling the objections and reopening the bank
in accordance with the plan. Two of the objecting creditors appealed to the Supreme Court of the state, invoking
the protection of Article I, § 10, and the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. The decree was
affirmed, one judge dissenting. 155 So. 331. The case is
here upon appeal. Judicial Code, § 237; 28 U. S.' C.

§ 344.
If we look to the surface of the statute and no farther,
there is not even colorable basis for the argument that the
Constitution is infringed. All that the statute does upon
its face is to change the method' of liquidation. The assets
of the business are to be devoted without impairment or
diversion to the payment of the debts. As to this the
statute is explicit. Act of 1932, Chapter 251, § 3. In the
discretion of the Court of Chancery a reopened bank is to
take the place of the state Superintendent for the purpose
of gathering in the assets and discharging liabilities. The
substitution may not be made unless the court is satisfied
that the reopened bank is solvent and able to satisfy th
debts to be assumed. Payment of the creditors is still the
end to be attained, and resumption of business a means
and nothing more. If debts are thereby swollen or assets
made to shrink, the outcome is an unlooked for incident
of a method of administration conceived to be more efficient, than present sale and distribution. The Constitution of the Unite4 States does not confer upon the depositors a vested right to liquidation at the hands 6f a
state official. Gibbes v. Zimmerman, 290 U. S. 326, 332.
The argument will not hold that the necessary operation of the statute is to subject dissenting creditors, who
may be as many as one-fourth, to the will or the whim of,
the assenting three-fourths. The creditors favoring reorganization, though 'they be ninety-nine per cent, have no
power under the statute to impose their will on a minority.

DOTY v. LOVE.
64

Opinion of the Court.

They may advise and recommend, but they are powerless
to coerce. Their recommendation will be ineffective unless
approved by the Superintendent. Even if approved by
him, it will be ineffective unless the court after a hearing
shall find it to be wise and just. Upon such a hearing
every objection to the plan in point of law or policy may
be submitted and considered. The decree when made -by
the Chancellor will represent his own unfettered judgment. The judicial power has not been delegated to nonjudicial agencies or to persons or factions interested in the
event. Like statutes have been upheld by the courts of
other states. Dormanv. Dell, 245 Ky. 34; 52 S. W. (2d)
892; Milner v. Gibson, 249 Ky. 594; 61 S. W. (2d) 273;
Nagel v. Ghingher, 166 Md. 231; 171 Atl. 65; McConville
v. Fort Pierce Bank & Trust Co., 101 Fla. 727; 135 So.
.392; Smith v. Texley, 55 S. D. 190; 225 N. W. 307;
Hoff v. First State Bank of Watson, 174 Minn. 36; 218
N. W. 238; Paul v. Farmers & Merchants State Bank,
187 Minn. 411; 245 N. W. 832.
The Act of 1932 being valid on the surface, the question
remains whether it has been so applied or interpreted
in the adoption of thii plan as to bring out defects that
were lurking underneath. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282, 289; -Merchants' National Bank v.
Richmond, 256"U. S. 635, 637; Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v.
Road Improvement District,No. 6, 256 U. S. 658, 659.
The argument is made that some of the assets of the
old bank are placed at the risk of the business of the new
one. All this was done for the protection of existing
creditors. The finding is that collections are made more
promptly and readily by a going -concern than by one in
liquidation. Cf. Christensen v. Merchants & Marina
Bank of Pascagoula, 168 Miss. 43, 57; 150 So. 375. For
illustration, a live bank i's much more efficient than a
closed one in selling parcels of real estate or in carrying
them while unsold at prQfitable rentals. Adequate pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

cautions are embodied in the plan to assure the enjoyment of these benefits by the creditors and not by others.
It is one of the terms of the decree that none of the profits
of the business may be used for the new shareholders
until every 'dollar's worth of assets turned over by the
Superintendent has been paid to the creditors or delivered
to the pool. The court may intervene upon a showing of
unreasonable delay. There is no need to consider
whether any of these safegarls might have been omitted
without invalidating the plain We take the record as we
find if.The' argument is made that a cause of action upon contricf 'has been destroyed or given away to thep~ejudice
of depositors in that shareholders have bcen releasedifrom
their personal liability in return for a contribution of
capital to the regenerated business. This is said to constitute a denial of due process or an impairment of contract within the doctrine of Ettor v. Tacoma, 228 U. S.
148, and Coombes v. Getz, 285 U. S.434. The answer is
much the same as to the argument last considered. The.
effect of the release has been to make it possible for thq
bank to be reopened with the result to the creditors of
economies and other benefits that would otherwise be lost.
During about two years and a half of liquidation there
had been collected from the whole body of the shareholders, representing 2,000 shares, a small percentage
only of the total liability. The Superintendent expressed
the belief that it might be possible in the course of many
years and with great expense and labor to bring collections
from these sources to a total of $75,000. Through the
method called for by the plan, capital in the sum of
$55,000 became available at once as additional security
for the obligations assumed by the reorganized business.
This capital was supplied by the holders of 1,100 shares,
whose maximum liability was $110,000. The liability of

DOTY v. LOVE.
64

Opinion of the Court.

the other shareholders ($90,000 at the maximum) continued unimpaired for whatever it was worth. The
Chancellor found from the evidence that in all probability
the moneys thus obtaiAed as contributions to capital could
not have been 'collected by judgment and execution, and
that the depositors wo-ld be the gainers by the substituted form of payment. He reached that conclusion after
a trial in the county of the vicinage with his finger on the
*pulse of neighborhood conditions. On appeal to the Supreme Court his findings were confirmed. Cf. Smith v.
Texley, supra, at p. 195.
In such circumstances it is idle to speak of the release
of liability as a gift or a sacrifice of valuable assets. The
release was none of that, but a compromise of a liability
of uncertain value upon terms beneficial to the creditors.
So the trier of the facts has found. The title to the
extinguished cause of action was not in the depositors,
but in-the Superintendent or the bank. If there had been
no plan to reorganize, the Superintendent like a receiver
might have compromised the cause of action and released
it with the approval of the court. His authority was no
less because the release was incidental to a project to
rehabilitate a business for the good of all concerned. The
jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery to give approval
to a settlement"by a receiver or other officer did not have
its genesis in the Act of 1932 or in the procedure there
prescribed. It existed in like measure when the liquidation of this bank was begun in 1930 and for many years
before. Depositors were chargeable with nbtice of -that
power and became subject to its exercise in making their
deposits.
In last analysis, then, the appellants' grievance, if they
have any, is this and nothing more, that there was error
of judgment to their prejudice in the approval of the plan
with the compromise of liability as one of its important

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

features. They refer us to nothing in the record to give
support to that contention. The. testimony as to the
probable results of liquidation without the aid of a reopened bank was not contradicted or discredited. But
the result would not be changed if the record in that
respect were different. Error of judgment in the compromise 'of liabilities is not a taking of property or an
impairment "of contract in derogation of the restraints
of the Constitution of the United States.
The appellants make. the point that by the Act of 1932
a preference was accorded to the claims of correspondent
banks, though such a preference- did not exist under the
statutes, in force when the Superintendent went into
possession.. A sufficient answer is that in this case he
correspondent banks were protedted by collateral security
which apart from the new preference would have required
them to be paid in full.
The appellants also say that their constitutional rights
were infringed by those provisions of the plan whereby a
preference was granted to the holders of small claims.
None of these claims ($3,649.87'in the aggregate) was fo"
more than $5, and many, we were informed -upon the
argument, were for only a few cents. The Chancellor
found by his decree that it would be more economical to
pay these accounts in full than to incur the bookkeeping expenses incidental to a calculation of percentages
whenever dividends were paid to others. Cf. Nagel v.
Ghingher, supra, at' p. 69. The objecting creditors have
not been ddmaged by that feature of the plan.
Finally the appellants say that the proceedings in the
Court of Chancery are void for insufficient notice to the
depositors and others. A sufficient answer is that the
appellants appeared generally and were fully heard'upon
the merits.
The decree should be affirrnd, and it is so ordered.
Affirmed.

