IVANHOE BLDG. ASSN. v. ORR.
237

Syllabus.

but at an angle thereto. "Laterally out of alignment
to the run" is not equivalent to "at an angle to the
plane of the fabric." That the applicant did not intend
it to be so understood is shown by his repeated use of the
word laterally, in the specifications, as the equivalent of
off to one side; and by this sentence: "The clearance
afforded . . . makes it possible to hold the needle down
closer to the fabric. . . ." There is no disclosure of any

up and down punch system, such as the defendants use.
2. Pivoted latch needles are old in the art. Holders
which have an opening to give room for the insertion of
a needle, such as that of an egg-cup, are old for use in,
darning. The method of reforming loops in knitted goods
with pivoted latch needles was known prior to the application for this patent. The combination of the use of
the egg-cup type holder and the pivoted latch needle
did not entitle Stephens to a patent; and the addition of
the element that the needle should be held at an angle
to the plane 'of the fabric, if that is in -fact what the
claim means, is insufficient to raise the method to the
dignity of invention.
Decree modified
and, as modified,
affirmed.
IVANHOE BUILDING & LOAN ASSN. v. ORR,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 611.

Argued April 5, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A creditor of a bankrupt, claiming on a bond secured by a mortgage on real estate not owned by the bankrupt and upon which the
creditor has foreclosed, is not a "secured creditor" of the bankrupt
within the meaning of §§ 1 (23) and 57 (e) of the Bankruptcy

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.'

Act, and is not precluded thereby from proving his claim for the
principal of the bond and interest, though he may not collect aahd
retain dividends which, with the fruits of the foreclosure, will
exceed that amount.' P. 245.
2. The case of a bankrupt indebted to a creditor on a bond secured
by a mortgage on property of a third person which the creditor
has'foreclosed, is not a case of mutual debts between bankrupt
and creditor, within the meaning of § 68 (a) of the Bankruptcy
Act, and that section does not limit the creditor's proof of claim
to the difference between the debt and the avails of the foreclosure.

Pp. 246-247.
73 F. (2d) 609, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 700, to review the affirmance of
a judgment reducing a claim in bankruptcy.

Mr. Abraham Alboum, with whom Mr. Maurice J.
Zucker was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Saul Nemser, with whom Mr. Charles E. Hendrickson was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In this case the question is whether a creditor of a
bankrupt, who has recovered a portion of the debt owed
him by foreclosure of a mortgage on property not owned
by the bankrupt, may prove for the full amount of the
debt, or only for the balance required to make him whole.
The owners of real estate in Newark, New Jersey, executed to the petitioner a bond in the penal sum of $23,000,
conditioned for the payment of $11,500, secured by a
mortgage on the land. The mortgagors subsequently conyeyed the premises to the Eastern Sash and Door Company, which expressly assumed the mortgage debt. That
company afterward conveyed to one Yavne. A default
occurred and the petitioner filed a foreclosure bill against
Yavne. The amount due was found to be $10,220.96.

IVANHOE BLDG. ASSN. v. ORR.
243

Opinion of the Court.

with interest and costs. The property was sold by the
sheriff and bid in by the petitioner for $100. Meanwhile
the Sash and Door Company had been adjudicated a
bankrupt. The petitioner presented a claim against the
estate for $10,739.94, the amount then due on the bond
less the $100 bid at the sale. It was stipulated that the
mortgaged property acquired in foreclosure was worth
$9,000. The referee reduced the claim to the difference,$1,739.94,-and ruled the petitioner was not entitled to
prove for any greater sum. The District Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals have held the referee's ruling
was right:' The result appearing to be contrary to the.
weight of authority 2 we granted certiorari.'
Decision must be governed by relevant provisions of the
Bankruptcy Act. The definition found in § 1 (23)4 is:
"' Secured creditor' shall include a creditor who has security for his debt ipon the property of the bankrupt of
a nature to be assignable under this Act, or who owns such
a debt for which some indorser, surety, or other persons
secondarily liable for the bankrupt has such security upon
the bankrupt's assets."
Section 57 (e)" directs that "claims of secured creditors
.. . shall be allowed for such sums only as to the courts
seem to be owing over and above the value of their securities . . ."

Unless the petitioner was a secured creditor as defined
by § 1 (23) it was not bound to have its security or the
avails thereof valued and to prove only for the difference
between that value and the face amount of the debt.
Petitioner does not come within the definition, for at the
date of bankruptcy it held no security against the bank173

F. (2d) 609.

'Rule 38, § 5 (b).

294 U. S. 700.
4

U. S. C. Tit. 11, § 1 (23).
'U. S. C. Tit. 11, § 93 (e).

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S..

rupt company's property, nor security given by any other
person who in turn was secured by the bankrupt's assets.'
Sections 1 (23) and 57 (e) do not, therefore, forbid the
proof of a claim for the principal of the bond with interest,
though the petitioner may not collect and retain dividends
which with the sum realized from the foreclosure will
more than make up that amount. The court below was
of this opinion, but thought that § 68 (a)" forbade proof
of a claim for more than the balance of the debt after
application of the avails of the foreclosure. That section
directs, "In all cases of mutual debts or mutual credits
between the estate of a bankrupt and a creditor the account shall be stated and one debt shall be set off against
the other, and the balance only shall be allowed or paid."
The theory upon which this section was held to control the
right to prove was thus stated:
"While the obligation of the bankrupt to pay the mortgage still remained, the mortgagee had gotten possession
of the security, and, in enforcing this obligation against
the bankrupt, the appellant-creditor [petitioner] must
reduce its claim by the admitted value of the security less
the $100 paid for it. The bankrupt owed the, appellant
[petitioner] the amount of the mortgage, and the appellant [petitioner]-equitably owed the bankrupt the value
of the security in his possession."
'The point was involved and necessarily decided, though not adverted to, in Hiscock v. Varick Bank, 206 U. S. 28; see the same
case below sub nom. In re Mertens, 144 Fed. 818, 820. See also In re
Headley, 97 Fed. 765; Swarts v. Fourth Nat. Bank, 117 Fed. 1;
In re Noyes Bros., 127 Fed. 286; In re Sweetser, 128 Fed. 165; Gorman v. Wright, 138 Fed. 164; Board of County Commissioners v.
Hurley, 169 Fed. 92; In re Bailey, 176 Fed. 990; In re Keep Shirt
Co., 200 Fed. 80; In re Thompson, 208 Fed. 207; Young v. Gordon,
219 Fed. 168; In re Pan-American Match Co., 242 FVd. 995; In re
Anderson, 11 F. (2d) 380; Hampel v. Minkwitz, 18 F. (2d) 3; Bankers Trust Co. v. Irving Trust Co., 73 F. (2d) 296.
'U. S. C. Tit. 11, § 108 (a).

BULL v. UNITED STATES.
243

Syllabus.

This novel application of § 68 (a) is, we think, inadmissible. A creditor holding security who realizes upon
it, does not "owe" his debtor the amount realized. The
well understood concept of mutual debts does not embrace such a situation as is here disclosed.
Judgment reversed.
BULL, EXECUTOR, v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 649. Argued April 9, 1935.--Decided April 29, 1935.
1. Moneys received by a deceased partner's estate as his share of
profits earned by the firm before he died, are taxable as his income
and also are to be included as part of his estate in computing the
federal estate tax. P. 254.
2. Where the articles of a personal service partnership having no invested capital provide that in the event of a partner's death the
survivors, if his representative does not object, shall be at liberty
to continue th business for a year, the estate in that case to share
the profits or losses as the deceased partner would if living, the
profits coming to the estate from such continuation of the business
are not to be regarded as the fruits of a sale of any interest of the
deceased to the survivors, but are income of the estate, taxable as
such; they, are no part of the corpus of the estate left by the
decedent upon which the federal estate tax ,isto be computed.
P. 255.
3. Retention by the Government of money wrongfully exacted as
taxes, is immoral and amounts in law to a fraud on -the taxpayer's
rights. P. 261.
4. A claim for recovery of money so held may not only be the
subject of a suit in the Coburt of Claims, but may be used by way
of recoupment and credit in an action by the United States arising
out of the same transaction, and this even though an independent
suit against the Government to enforce the claim would be barred
by the statute of limitations. P. 261.
5. Recoupment is in the nature of a defense arising out of some
feature of the transaction upon which the plaintiff's action is
grounded. Such a defense is never barred by the statute of limitations so long as the main action itself is timely. P. 262.

