134

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

of Turner's intention was that, throughout his extensive
trading, 1,200 shares of United States Gas Improvement
Co. stock were to remain in his account. Since this question was not considered in the court below nor argued
here, the case must be remanded to the Court of Appeals
for further consideration.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE thinks that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals should be reversed and the order of the
Board of Tax Appeals affirmed, on the grounds that the
petitioner failed to show that the particular shares sold
were capable of identification with respect to the date
of their purchase, and that they could not be identified
merely by designating them to the broker as the shares
to be sold.
SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE TCIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 663. Argued March 15, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. Shares traded in on margin are capable of identification for the
purposes of the "First-in, first-out" rule of the Treasury (Reg.
No. 74, Art. 58) but the mere intention of the trader to sell
particular shares, without further designation, does not constitute
sufficient identification. Helvering v. Rankin, ante, p. 123. P. 137.
2. A person who devotes no substantial part of his business day to
stock transactions; who is not a trader on the exchange making a
living in buying and selling securities; but who deals merely with
the object of increasing, as far as his margin will permit, his
holdings of a particular stock carried for his account by his brokers,
is not engaged in market operations as a trade or business within
the meaning of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 137.

SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER.
134

Opinion of the Court.

3. Gains realized from sales of property purchased in previous years,
measured, as prescribed by §§ 111-113 of the 1928 Act, by the
excess of proceeds of sale over cost, constitute income taxable in the
year in which the sales are made. P. 140.
4. Assuming that this rule is applicable only to the sale of capital
assets, and not to sales made in the course of a business of trading
on the stock exchange, it applies to a taxpayer who has failed to
establish that the securities sold were held primarily for sale in the
regular course of business. P. 140.
5. The Court rejects the contention in this case that the taxpayer's
income realized during the taxable year from his stock transactions should not be measurcd by the difference between the sale
and cost prices of securities sold, but by the result of all his
market operations, purQhases as well as sales, during the year, i. e.,
by taking the difference between the purchase price and the sales
price of shares bought and sold during the year and deducting
expenses, such ai commissions, taxes and interest. P. 141.
73 F. (2d) 5, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 29 B. T. A. 39,
which sustained an income tax assessment.
Mr. Henry M. Ward for petitioner.

Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. James W. Morris and

J. P. Jackson were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This case presents further questions regarding the application to marginal transactions on the stock exchange
of Article 58 of Regulations No. 74, as well as some of

those already considered in Helvering v. Rankin, decided
this day, ante, p. 123.

Snyder was the salaried secretary of an insurance company. During 1928, as in previous years, he made on his
individual account, at different dates and different prices,

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

many purchases and sales on margin of United Gas Improvement Company stock., In his Federal Income Tax
return for the calendar year 1928 he reported, apparently,
no profits from trading on the stock exchange. The
Commissioner of Internal Revenue concluded that he
had made large gains; determined that his net income
was $197,495.85; and, after making the appropriate deductions, assessed 'adeficiency tax of $38,961.22. The
large income computed by the Commissioner was the
result of applying the sales made in 1928 against purchases in earlier years, in accordance with the "First-in,
fiist-out" regulation and §§ 111-113 of the Act. The
Board of Tax Appeals, 29 B.*T. A. 39, and the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals, 73 F..(2d) 5, affirmed the
Commissioner's determination. The facts found by the
Board of Tax Appeals, upon which the case was submitted, are these:
Snyder traded in United Gas Improvement Company
stock for profii through brokers on margin; and increased
his holdings by the method known as" pyramiding." On
January 1, 1928, there stood to his credit 5,300 shares; and
his debit balances aggregated $501,865.59. He purchased
during the tax year 10,600 shayes and sold 7,900. At the
close of the year, 8,000 shares stood to his credit, and his
debit balances aggregated $932,822.67. Upon rises'in the
market, paper profits had been used to increase his holdings. Upon declines in the market, when his margin fell
below the required percentage, the brokers reduced his
debit balances by sufficient sales to make up the deficiency
in the margin. The purchases and sales were effected by
the brokers transferring so-called "street certificates,"
each for 100 shares, in 1he name of some stock exchange
concern, endorsed by it in blank. At no time was any
stock certificate delivered by the brokers to Snyder, or
by him to them; nor was any certificate earmarked for
him or his account. The certificates were inextricably

SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER.
134

Opinion of the Court.

mingled with other securities pledged with banks. They
were at all times incapable of identification as having been
bought or sold for the account of Snyder. The transactions between him and the brokers- were reflected solely
in entries in Snyder's account on the brokers' books! and
no entry indicated that any particular lot theretofore purchased had been soId or retained. The only attempt at
identification found by the Board, was the uncontradicted
testimony of Snyder to the effect that "i.1 each case where
.a sale was made it was his intention to sell the last acquired stock first and shortly thereafter to buy back an
equivalent amount in order to increase his margin and
acquire additional shares of the stock."
First. Snyder contends, in the alternative, that his intention to sell the last acquired stock first, constituted
sufficient identification to make the "First-in, first-out"
rule inapplicable; orlelsi that the regulation as applied to
marginal transactions on the stock exchange is invalid,
because there is no possible means, other than the trader's
intentions, of identifying the shares sold. What has already been said in Hetvering v. Rankin is enough to dispose of both of these contentions. It is there determined'
that shares traded on margin are capable of identification
for the purposes of the regulation; but that the mere intention of the trader to sell particular shares, without further designation, does not constitute sufficient identification.
Second. Snyder contends that the "First-in, first-out"
regulation may not, consistently with the provisions of the
Revenue Act of 1928, be applied to the facts of this case.
The argument is that his market operations constituted
a trade or business as those terms are used in § 22 (a) of
the Act; that according to that section, and the applicable
decisions of this Court, Burnet v. Sanford & Brooks Co.,
282 U. S.359; Woolford Realty Co. v. Rose, 286 U. S.
319, gross income from such business, as well as net in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295U.S.

come under § 23 of the Act, must be computed entirely
with respect to transactions within the taxable year; and
that §§ 111-113, upon which the Government relies, are
not applicable because they relate only to "sales of property, including securities, held for investment," and have
no application to sales made in the course of a "business
of trading on the stock exchange." On this assumption,
Snyder argues that the income realized during the taxable
year from his stock transactions is not the aggregate of
the gains and losses on each sale of securities, measured
by the difference between the sale and cost prices of the
securities sold, but the profit or loss realized as a result
of all market operations, purchases as well as sales, made
during the taxable year. Such profit or loss, he now suggests, must be computed "by taking the difference between the purchase price and the sales price of shares
bought and sold during the year, deducting expenses, such
as commissions, taxes and interest." Thus computed, he
concludes, his market operations resulted in a gross income of $43,692; and adding his salary, insurance commissions and dividends, and deducting the expenses of
his stock operations (interest paid brokers) his net taxable income was $39,682, and his total tax $1,897.77.
Third. Neither in the findings of the Board of Tax
Appeals, nor in the facts upon which the case was submitted to it, is there -any support for the controverted
allegation in Snyder's petition that his market operations
constituted a "business regularly carried on for profit."
It is true that a taxpayer may be engaged in more than
one trade or business, as those terms are used in various
'The answer of the Commissioner denied that the "brokerage accounts . . .constituted a trade or business within the meaning of any

.provision of the Revenue'Act of 1928." The Board of Tax Appeals
made no specific finding on this issue; but the Court of Appeals assumed that the Board meant to find against the taxpayer, and concluded that the assumed finding was supported by the evidence.

SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER.
134

Opinion of the Court.

provisions of the Revenue Acts; and that, in addition to
other business activities, one may be "regularly engaged
in the business of buying and selling corporate stocks."
Compare Dalton v. Bowers, 287 -U. S. 404; Burnet v.
Clark, 287 U. S. 410. Washburn v. Commissioner, 51 F.
(2d) 949. It is also true that the Department has ruled,
and the Board has held, that a taxpayer who, for the purpose of making a livelihood, devotes the major portion of
his time to speculating on the stock exchange may' treat
losses thus incurred as having been sustained in the course
of a trade or business.2 Snyder, however, did not allege
or attempt to prove that he had devoted the major part.
or any substantial part, of his business day to his stock
transactions. Nor were there any facts adduced to show
that he might properly be characterized as a "tader on
an exchange who makes a living in buying and selling
securities." Bedell v. Commissioner, 30 F. (2d) 622, 624;
compare A/1ente v. Eisner, 266 Fed. 161. Indeed, according to his petition, his intention througholit the year 1928
was, by "taking advantage of the turns of the market,"
not to draw out cash profits from his operations, but "to
increase the holdings of U. G. I. stock carried for his
account by [his] brokers to as great an extent as the
margin of his account permitted." There is no substantial e-idence in the record to sustain a finding by the
Board, had there been one, to the effect that Snyder's
market operations constituted a trade or business within
the meaning of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1928.
Fourth. The attack upqn the Commissioner's m6thod
of computing income falls with ihe unsupported allega'I. T. 1818, 11-2 C. B. 39; Schwinn v. Commissioner, 9 B. T. A.
1304; Elliott v. Commissioner, 15 B. T. A. 494; Hodgson v. Commissioner, 24 B. T. A. 256; Schermerhorn v. Commissioner, 26 B. T. A.
1031. Compare Black v. Bolen, 268 Fed. -427; Rogers v. United
States, 41 F. (2d) 865; Kunau v. Commissioner, 27 B. T. A. 509;

Thiele v. Commissioner, 32 B. T. A. 134

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

'tion that the stock transactions constituted a "business
regularly carried on for profit." In his brief in support
of his petition to this Court for certiorari, Snyder makes
it clear, perhaps for the first time, that he is "insistent
upon the point that the operations constitute a trade or
business or transaction entered into for profit, not in
order to deduct losses, but to emphasize the controlling
rule that the law requires the tax to be computed on the
segregated traxisactions of the year." But it is now too
well settled for argument, that gains realized from sales of
property purchased in previous years, measured, as prescribed by §§ 111-113 of the 1928 Act, by the excess of
-proceeds of sale over cost, constitute income taxable in
the year in which the sales are made. Doyle v. Mitchell
Bros. Co., 247 U. S. 179, 184-5; Hays v. Gauley Mountain
Coal Co., 247 U. S. 189, 192; MacLaughlin v. Alliance
Insurance.Co., 286 U. S. 244, 250. The contention that
the rule isapplicable only to the sale of capital assets,
and not to sales made in the course of a "business of
trading on the stock exchange," need not be disposed of
on its merits, but see Gray v. Darlington,15 Wall. 63, 66;
Merchants' L. & T. Co. v. Smietanka, 255 U. S.509, 520,
since Snyder has failed to establish that the securities
sold were held primarily for sale in the regular course of
business.3 And obviously, whether or not the stock transactions constituted a trade or business, the computation
of gross income therefrom by deducting from sales of the
current year the cost of securities sold, as determined by
the pfrchase prices of previous years, is not comparable to
the unsuccessful attempt in Burnet v. Sanford & Brooks
'Compare Hutton v. Commissioner, 39 F. (2d) 459, where the deduction of brokers' commissions on purchases of securities, as business expenses, was disallowed. The Board found that the taxpayer
was "engaged in the business of buying, holding and selling realty
securities, etc."; but regarded the commissions as "capital expenditures." 12 B. T. A. 265. Compare Vaughan v. Commissioner, 31
B. T.,A. 5,8; Keeney v. Commissioner, 17 B. T. A. 560.

SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER.
134

141

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 282 U. S. 359, to offset gross income of the current
year against losses orexpenses of previous years.4'
Fifth. Moreover, Snyder suggests no other practicable
method of accounting which would reflect income for the
year more fairly than the method adopted by the Commissioner.' He concedes that he is not. a dealer in securities, in the sense of one who buys securities for the
purpose of resale to customers-; and that, consequently,
he is not entitled to compute income on an inventory
basis.6 Compare Lucas v. Kansas City Structural Steel
Co., 281 U. S. 264, 268; U. S., Cartridge Co. v. United
States, 284 U. S. 511, 520. His suggestion that gross
income from trading be computed by deducting purchase
prices from sale prices during the year would offer a feasible substitute only if it could be assumed that the number of purchases and sales would be approximately equal
'Proceeds from sales in the regular course of business constitute
gross income of the business only to the extent that they exceed the
cost of the goods sold. See Spring City Foundry Co. v. Commiss ner, 292 U. S. 182, 185. Compare Washington Land Co. v. Commissioner, 10 B. T. A. 503; Atlantic Coast Realty Co. v. Commissioner, 11 B. T. A. 416; Stern v. Commissioner, 14 B. T. A. 838. See
Art. 55, Regulations 74, Revenue Act of 1928.
'Snyder does not attempt to bring himself within the general rule
of § 41- of the 1928 Act, to the effect that "net inc6me ahall be
computed upon the basis of the taxpayer's annual accounting period
in accordance with the method of accounting regularly employed in
keeping the books of said taxpayer." Neither does he state that the
method he now suggests was followed in his return.
'Article 105 of Regulations 1o. 74, permit dealers in securitie to
make returns on inventory basis. A dealer is defined as a "merchant
of securities, . .,. with an established place of business, regularly en-

gaged in the purchase of securities and their resale to customers."
Compare HarrimanNational Bank v. Commissioner, 43 F. (2d) 950;
Pan-American Bank & Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 5 B. T. A. 839;
Adirondack Securities Corp: v. Commissioner, 23 B. T. A. 61; Northeastern Security Corp. v. Commissioner, 29 B. T. A. 297 Lowell v.
Commissioner, 30 B. T. A. 1297; Fried v. Commissioner, 31 B. T. A.
638; Brendle v. Commissioner, 31 B. T. A. 1188.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

.20.5

U. S.

each year and that any differences would be averaged out
in the course of a number of years. That assumption is
unwarranted, particularly .in view of Snyder's professed
object "to accumulate as many shares of U. G. I. as he
could." ' His alternative suggestion, that, since purchases
in fact exceeded sales during 1928, the "First-in, first-out"
rule, if applied at all, should be confined to purchases
and sales in the course of the year, adds nothing to the
contentions that have already been considered in this
case or in Helvering v. Rankin.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurs in the result, but thinks

that the petitioner failed to show that the particular
shares sold were capable of identification with respect to
the date of their purchase, and that they could not be
identified merely by the taxpayer's designation of them
to the broker as the shares to be sold.
CALIFORNIA OREGON POWER CO. v. BEAVER
PORTLAND CEMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 612.

Argued April 5, 8, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A patent issued under the Homestead law, after the date of thr,
Desert Land Act of 1877, for lands in the State ut Oregon bordering on a non-navigable stream, does -not, of its own force, inveb4
the owner of the land with a common-law right to have the water
flow ,ut solebat, as against an opposite 'riparian owner who seeks,
'In Snyder's computation, although he purports to take " the di ference between the purchase price and sale price of shales bought
and sold during the year," the cost of the last 1,500 sharcs bought in
one of his two brokerage accounts during the year is deducted from
the total cost of -purchases in that account, because purchazrs txceeded sales by 1,500 shaTes.

