193

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY CO.
ET A. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

I

No. 606. Argued March 15, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. By long usage and under § 15 (5) of the Interstate Commerce
Act, the unloading into pens of ordinary live.'stock consigned in
carload lots to the Chicago stockyards, is a transportation service
to be performed by the carrier without extra charge to the shipper
or consignee. P. 198.
2. The boundary between the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture
under the Packers and Stockyards Act, with respect to live stock
consigned to public stockyards, is where the transportation ends.
P; 201.
3. A consignee of live stock, upon receiving cattle unloaded from the
cars into the unloading pens, drove them over the property of the
stockyards company, including a viaduct, directly into the consignee's plant. The Interstate Commerce Commission ruled that a
yardage charge for use of the stockyards facilities was unlawful
and ordered the carriers and the Yards Company to desist from
exacting it, but no definite finding was made as to what constituted
complete deliver or where transportation ended. Held that the
order was invalid for want of basic findings. P. 201.
4. This Court will not search the record to ascertain whether, by use
of what there may be found, general and ambiguous statements in
the report, intended to serve as findings, may by construction be
given a -meaning sufficiently definite and certain to constitute a
valid basis for the order. P. 201.
5. Lack of express finding by an administrative agency may not be
supplied by implication. P. 202.
8 F. Supp. 825, reversed.
Together with No. 607, Union Stock Yard & Transit Co. v. United
States et al. Appeal from the District Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York.
*

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

APPEALs from a decree of the District Court, constituted
of three judges, dismissing a suit to enjoin enforcement
of an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Frank H. To&uaer, with whom Messrs. Silas H.
Strawn, Ralph M. Shaw, E. A. Boyd, P. F. Gault, Walter
McFarland, J. N. Davis, Wallace Hughes, James Stillwell, and L. H. Strasser were on the brief, for appellants
in No. 606.
Mr. CharlesE. Cotterillfor appellant in No. 607.
Mr. J.* Stanley Payne, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Stephens, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins and Daniel W. Knowlton were on the
brief, for the United States and Interstate Comnierce
Commission, appellees.
Mr. Carl M. Owen, with whom Mr. Harold J. Gallagher was on the brief, for Hygrade Food Products Corp.,
appellee.
MR. JUSTicE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
These are separate appeals from a decree of a three
judge court dismissing a suit to enjoin enforcement of an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission. 8 F.
Supp. 825. The suit was brought by 24 railroads, appellants in No. 606, for convenience called "carriers," against
the United States and Interstate Commnerce Commission.
Twenty-one are line carriers; the other three perform only
switching service. The Union Stock Yard & Transit
Company, appellant in No. 607, and the Hygrade Food
Products Corporation, the complainant before the Commission and one of the appellees here, intervened.
By its complaint to the Commission the Hygrade Company attacked as unreasonable in violation of § 1 of the
Interstate Commerce Act (Title 49, U. S. C.) the carriers' tariff charges applicable to switching livestock to

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

195.

Opinion of the Court.

its packing plant. And it assailed as inapplicable the"
yardage charge collected by the Yards Company bn livestock delivered at the stockyards. It claims that the
service covered by the charge is included in transportation,
§§ 1 (3), 15 (5); that, not being specified in carriers'
tariffs, they are unlawful, § 6; and that the practice of
the carriers and Yards Company in making the stockyards their depot for delivery of livestock pursuant to an
arrangement by which the Yards Company imposes a
yardage charge is an unjust and unreasonable practice
in violation of § 1.
Subject to regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture
under the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921, 42 Stat. 159,
7 U. S. C., c. 9, the Yards Company operates public stockyards in Chicago. "The Hygrade Company in 1929 acquired and has since operated a packing plant that many
years ago was established on the Chicago Junction Rail-.
way a short distance from the unloading pens in the
stockyards. Tracks of the Junction Railway extend into,
and are used to haul dead freight to and from, the Hygrade planti The charge for switching livestock into the
plant is $12 per car. -To avoid that burden, the Hygrade
Company elects, as did its predecessors, to have all livestock intended for slaughter at the plant shipped to the
stockyards. These yards are livestock terminals of the
carriers and are served by trains operated by them over
the tracks of the Junction Railway. Each carrier's tariff specifies rates covering transportation of livestock to
Chicago including delivery to consignee on the carrier's
own line. But, as practically all shipments to Chicago are
consigned to the public stockyards, there is little, if any,
need or use of individual carrier unloading facilities.
To cover the movenent over the Junction Railway to
the public stockyards, western carriers add to the Chicago.
rate $2.70 and eastern carriers $1.35 per car. No additional charge is made for unloading. The carriers employ
and pay the Yards Company for unloading the livestock

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the amount-$1 per car-specified in its tariffs filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission. That work is accomplished by means of platforms and chutes down which
the animals are driven from the cars into pens. These
pens are not suitable places in which long to hold livestock. At peak periods of stock train arrivals these facilities are so much in use that the Yards Company is able
to permit the animals to remain in the unloading pens
only a short time-often not more than a few minutes.
And, unless promptly taken away by consignee, the Yards
Company transfers'them to holding pens.
About 85 per cent. of all consignments to the Hygrade
Company are so transferred. The others are by it taken
from the unloading pens and driven through ways or alleys
within the extensive yards properties over scales, where
for the purpose of computing freight charges they are
weighed, to and along an elevated runway over pens in
the yards and the, tracks of the Junction Railway, thence,
to and through a tunnel, under the proposed extension of
Pershing Road (located along what was formerly a part
of the Chicago River) ending at the Hygrade Company's
plant which abuts on that highway. The Yards Company, in accordance with its tariffs filed with the Secretary of Agriculture, makes and collects a specified charge
per head on all livestock received in the yards-being 35,
25, 12 and 8 cents respectively for cattle, calves, hogs and
sheep. These -charge' apply to animals taken by the
consignee immediately from unloading pens to its plant
as well as to those transferred by the Yards Company to
the holding pens, later to be taken by consignee. The
tariffs of the Yards Company also specify charges for
other services.1 As to each carload, it makes a statement
showing separately the carrier's charges and its own. It
'They include: Feed and feeding, bedding, dipping and spraying,
immunizing and incidental care of swine, cattle testing, cleaning and
disinfecting of pens, etc., branding, and other special services.

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

Opinion of the Court.

collects the total, accounts to the carriers for those coy-'
ered by their tariffs filed with. the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and retains the balance.
The report of the Commission (195 I. C. C. 553) states:
The stockyards are livestock terminals of the carriers. Consignees are entitled to delivery at suitable pens without
charge for the mere placement therein of the livestock.
The unloading pens are suitable for the accomplishment
of proper delivery to consignee. The method of handling
'is efficient and satisfactory. The fact that the carriers
have at Chicago destinations other places of delivery
where no charge is made is not a legally sufficient reason
for an extra charge at the stockyards. As to about 15 per
cent. of all shipments consigned to complainant "it has
taken delivery before the animals were placed in holding
pens." There is no occasion for putting them in holding
pens if prompt delivery is desired. The fact that other
freight is subject to storage or demurrage charges only
after the lapse of considerable time is not a sufficient reason why similar rules should apply in respect of yardage
charges on livestock. After unloading, livestock requires
unusual attention and care such as is not required by other
freight.
The Commission concluded: The switching charge -is
not shown to be unreasonable or otherwise unlawful.
Prompt delivery does not require pens to be so equipped
as to provide rest, feed and water for livestock. If placement into pens 'that are so equipped is desired, an extra
charge therefor is not within the inhibition of § 15.
There are no services performed after unloading for
which defendants may assess charges in instances where
delivery is taken at the unloading pens. The livestock in
carloads consigned to complainant at the yards is not subject to yardage charges in instances where delivery is so
taken. Complainant is entitled to reparation.
The Commission ordered that the carriers and Yards
Company cease and desist from practices which subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

complainant to payment of yardage charges on livestock,
in. instances where delivery is taken at the unloading pens,
and that the proceeding may be reopened to ascertain the
amount of reparation.
Appellants contend that transportation ends with unloading of livestock into suitable pens and that, for lack
of essential findings of fact, the order is void.
Transportation of ordinary livestock in carload lots
from and to points other than public stockyards has always been deemed to include furnishing of facilities at the
place of shipment for loading and at destination for unloading and suitable ways for convenient ingress and
egress. Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. Keith, 139 U. S.
128, 134-135. Erie R. Co. v. Shuart,.250 U. S. 465, 468.
2 Hutchinson, Carriers, 3d ed., § 510. CfL Norfolk.& Western Ry. v. PublicService Comm'n, 265 U. S. 70, 74. And,
in the absence of understanding or agreement to the contrary, transportation includes loading and unloading. 4
Elliott, Railroads, 3d ed., § 2346. Indiana Union Traction
Co. v. Benadum, 42 Ind. App. 121, 123; 83 N. E. 261.
Davis v. Simmons (Tex. Civ. App.), 240 S. W. 970, 976.
Massey v. Texas & P. Ry. Co. (Tex. Civ. App.) 200 S. W.
409, 410. Benson v. Gray, 154 Mass. 391, 394; 28 N. E.
275.
But for many years, in virtue of custom and as well by
the terms of shipping contracts in general use, that burden has been laid upon shippers. 2 Hutchinson, Carriers,
3d ed., § 711. "London & L. FireIns. Ca. v. Rome, W. & 0.
R. Co., 144 N. Y. 200, 205; 39 N. E. 79. Indeed, October
21, 1921, the Interstate Commerce Commission, acting under authority of § 15 (1) and following a form of clause
submitted by shippers and carriers, prescribed a unifornr
livestock contract containing § 4 (a): "The shipper a'
his own risk and expense shall load and unload the liv
stock into and out of cars, except in those instances wher
this duty is made obligatory upon the carrier by statute oi

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

199

Opinion of the Court.

is assumed by a lawful tariff provision." 64 I. C. C. 357;
363, App. F. But the practice has long been otherwise at
the Chicago Union Stockyards. For more than 50 years
prior to 1917 the carriers without any additional charge
to shipper or consignee unloaded livestock into pens provided by the Yards Company. Adams v. Mills, 286 U. S.
397, 410. Paragraph (5) of § 15 enacted in 1920 made the
practice general and compulsory in public stockyards
throughout the United States. And the Yards Company
'has always collected a charge on all animals received in its
yards. It may be assumed that shippers; commission men
and packers, including the Hygrade Company, have had
knowledge of this long existing practice.
Paragraph (5) of § 15 was passed February 28, 1920,
during and presumably with knowledge of the controversy
later brought here in Adams v. Mills, supra. While declaring that transportation of livestock to public stockyards shall include unloading without extra charge, it left
undisturbed the Yards Company's practice of making a
charge for livestock received.' The Packers and Stockyards Act, approved August 15, 1921, subjects public stock'Section 15 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act, added by § 418
of the Transportation Act, 1920, 41 Stat. 486, provides:
"Transportation wholly by railroad of ordinary livestock in carload lots destined to or received at public stockyards shall include
all necessary service of unloading and reloading en route, delivery at
public stockyards of inbound shipments into suitable pens, and receipt and loading at such yards of outbound shipments, without extra
charge therefor to the shipper, consignee or owner, except in cases
where the unloading or reloading en route is at the request of the
shipper, consignee or owner, or to try an intermediate market, or to
comply with quarantine regulations. The Commission may prescribe
or approve just and reasonable rules governing each of such excepted
services. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to affect the
duties and liabilities of the carriers ngw existing by virtue of law
respecting the transportation of other than ordinary livestock, or the
duty of performing service as to shipments other than those to or
from public stockyards." 49 U. S. C., § 15 (5).

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

yards to regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture. Section 301 (b) defines stockyards services to include, among
other things, facilities furnished at a stockyard in connec3
tion with the receiving, holding and delivery of livestock.
Section 406 provides that the Act shall not affect the
jurisdiction of the Commission or confer upon the Secretary concurrent jurisdiction over any matter within the
jurisdiction of the Commission.'
There is here involved no question as to the adequacy
of individual carriers' unloading 6-r other facilities for the
delivery of livestock. The Hygrade Company did not
seek and the Commission did not grant relief upon the
ground that the carriers failed to provide egress from the
unloading pens in the public stockyards to the city streets
by means of which consignee's animals might be removed
to its plant. Consignee sought free delivery in cars
switched into its plant, but the Commission found the
switching charge not unreasonable.
Consignee also
sought free use of the Yards Company's properties, including the overhead runway to take its animals from
holding pens as well as from unloading pens to its plant.
The Commission held agaihst it as to the first and in its
favor as to the other of these demands.
Long continued practice and special conditions made
unloading at these yards a transportation service to be
performed by the carrier. Adams v. Mils, supra,410. So
the long established .and uniform practice fb, provide a
"The term 'stockyard services' means services or facilities furnished at a stockyard in connection with the receiving, buying or
selling on a commission basis or otherwise, marketing, feeding, watering, holding, delivery, shipment, weighing, or handling in commerce,
of livestock." 7 U. S. C., § 201 (b).
"' Nothing in this Act shall affect the power or jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, nor confer upon the Secretary
concurrent power or jurisdiction over any matter within the power

or jurisdiction of such Commission."

7 U. S. C., § 226.

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

201

Opinion of the Court.

route viii the overhead runway to the Hygrade plant distinguishes the use of the Yards Company's properties for
this service from mere egress such as is included in transportation of livestock to destinations other than public
yards. Plainly there is an essential difference between the
route from unloading pens to consignee's plant and a mere
way out to the public highways. Transportation does not
include delivery within the Hygrade plant or the furnishing of the properties, overhead runway and all, that -are
used for that purpose. Usage and physical conditions combined definitely to end transportation, at least in respect
of these shipments, with unloading into suitable pens as
is now required by § 15 (5). Like the railroads, public
stockyards are public utilities subject to regulation in respect of services and charges. The statutes cited clearly
disclose intention that jurisdiction of the Secretary shall
not overlap that of the Commission. The boundary is the
place where transportation ends..
The Commission's ruling that the imposition of the
yardage charge on animals taken by consignee from -holding pens does not violate the Act implies that as to those
animals transportation ended at the unloading pens. On
the other hand, its ruling that in the instances where consignee takes delivery at unloading pens the animals are
not subject to the yardage charge suggests that delivery is
not completed by unloading into suitable pens. That necessarily implies something more to be done or furnished by
the carrier. But the Commission, in respect of the shipments covered by its order, made no definite finding as to
what constitutes complete delivery or where transportation ends. Its report does not disclose the basic facts on
which it made the challenged order. This. court will not
search the record to ascertain whether, by use of what
there may be found, general and ambiguous statements in
the report intended to serve as findings may by construction be given a meaning sufficiently definite and certain to

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

constitute a valid basis for the order. In the absence of a
finding of essential basic facts, the order cannot be sustained. Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 215. Recently this court has repelled the suggestion that lack of
express finding by an administrative agency may be supplied by implication. PanamaRefining Co. v. Ryan, 293
U. S. 388,. 433. See Beaumont, S. L. & W. Ry. v. United
States, 282 U. S. 74, 86. Interstate Commerce Comm'n
v. Chicago,B. & Q. R. Co., 186 U. S. .320, 341.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the judgment should be affirmed.
The Interstate Commerce Commission found that the
stockyards are the live stock terminals of the carriers;
that a "yardage charge" per animal is assessed on all shipments of live stock delivered by thQ carriers at the stock
yards; that the charge is imposed whether the live stock
is taken by the consignee directly from the unloading
pens or from the holding pens, to which the animals are
taken if not immediately removed by the consignee upon
arrival; and that appellee removes about 15% of all shipments consigned to it directly from the unloading pens.
Upon the basis of these findings the Commission concluded that the yardage charge upon live stock removed
from the holding pens is proper, but that the charge is
improper and iunlawful when made upon live stock received by the consinee and removed immediately upon
arrival from the unloading pens and the yards.
These findings are thus the complete and obvious equivalent of a finding that a charge in addition to the scheduled tariff rate is imposed on consignees, including appellee, for the bare privilege of access to the unloaded
live stock for the purpose of its immediate removal from
the carriers' terminal. They are ample to raise the questions of law decided below and presented here, whether

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

203

STONE, J., dissenting.

the charge is lawful and whether the Commission has
jurisdiction to forbid it. Th.e precise point in space at
which delivery is complete, or where transportation ends,
is immaterial. For whether it ends.when the cattle are
placed in the unloading pens or only when the consignee
removes the live stock from the terminal, the questions
remain whether a charge levied upon the privilege of
removal from the carriers' terminal is lawful and whether
in any case, the Commission has jurisdiction.
It appears that appellee drives the live stock to its place
of business, in part over a viaduct, belonging to thie- stock
yards, and in part through a tunnel, the ownership of
which does not appear. But'the order of the Cominission does not require the use of either the viaduct or
the .tunnel for that purpose, or forbid a charge for their
use. It only forbids yardage charges "where delivery
was or is taken at the unloading pens." Appellants are
thus left free, after removing the condemned charge, to
provide any reasonable means of free access to the stock
yards terminal for the purpose of proper removal of the
live stock from th6 unloading pens. See Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S.501, 513; Chicago,
I. & L. Ry. Co. v. United States, 27G0 U. S. 287, 292,
293.
In thus declaring that it is a part of the duty of a
common carrier of live stock by rail- to provide costless
facilities for its delivery and immediate removal by the
consignee on arrival at its destination, the Interstate Corn-.
merce Commission did not announce any novel rule of
law. A carrier can no more lawfully add such a charge
to the scheduled rate for the transportation service than
it could demand a toll of a passenger, who had paid his
fare for alighting at or -passing through its railway station
-upon arrival, or for removal of his hand bag delivered to
him from its baggage car. This was specifically stated by
this Court in Covington Stock-Yards Co. v. Keith, f39

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
SToNE, J., dissenting.

295 V. S.

U. S. 128, 135, in declaring unreasonable and unlawful any
charge for delivery and prompt receipt of the live stock,
made by a comparny whose stock yards had been desig-.
hated by the rail carrier as its delivery station.
Section 1 of the A.t to Regulate Commerce, as originally enacted in 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, continued this
duty of common carriers by rail by providing that the
chargds'for the transportation of passengers or property
"or for the receiving, delivering, storage, or handling of
such property, shall be reasonable and just." The Act, as
amended, amplifies this -duty by providing in § 6 (1) of
the Interstate Commerce Act that rate schedules shall
"state separately all terminal charges," and by § 6 (7)
-which prohibits rail carriers from receiving any greater
or different compensation for transportation of6passengers
or property "or for any service in connection tlherewith,
between the points named in such tariffs than the rates"
which are specified. in the filed tariff. Section 1 (3) of
the Act gives to the Commission jurisdiction over "terminal facilities of every kind used or necessary in the
transportation of persons or property . . . including all
freight cepots, yards and grounds, used or necessary in the
transportation or delivery of any such property," and
further provides that the term "transportation" as used
in the Act shall include "all instrumentalities and facilities
of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership or of
any contract, express or implied, for the use thereof, and
all services in connection with the receipt, delivery . . .
and handling of property transported." The Commission
is thus given jurisdiction over the terminal services of each
carrier incidental to the transportation and delivery of
freight which could in any wise affect the charges or rates
for the transportation service which they undertake to
render. Even storage of goods at destination is a part of
the transportation service, in the sense of the federal act,

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

205

SToiNm, J., dissenting.

and subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission. Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632, 637; Cleveland,
C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588.
When Congress enacted the Packers and Stock Yards
Act of 1921, c. 64, 42 Stat. 159, it gave to the Secretary of'
Agriculture regulatory jurisdiction over public stockyards,
including specified stock yard services; but it was provided
by § 406 (a) that "nothing in this Act shall affect the
power or jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, nor confer upon the Secretary concurrent, power
or jurisdiction over any matter within the power or jurisdiction of such Commission."
This duty of the carrier, and the jurisdiction of the
Commission to compel the performance of it, were recently
recognized and reaffirmed by this Court in Adams v. Mis,
286 U. S. 397, 409-415, upholding a reparation award by
the Commission against the carrier and the Chicago Stock
Yards for an unloading charge not 'absorbed by the carrier or included in its *scheduleof tariffs. It was held that
the yards used by the carrier as a place of delivery were
terminals of the railroad company regardless of their
ownership, see Merchahts Warehouse Co. v. United
States, supra, 513, that unloading the live stock was a
transportation service for which no charge could be made
which was not designated in the filed tariffs, and that the
Commission had jurisdiction .to forbid the unlawful prac-'
tice and to order reparatibns for the overcharge. See also
Cleveland, C., C..& St. L. Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, supra;

Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, supra.
To avoid these plain provisions of the statutes of the
United States, and the. unambiguous definition by this
Court of the duty of a rail carrier of live stock, appellants
rely on an ingenious interpretation of § 15 (5) of the Interstate Commerce Act. This section, so far as now material, provides that transportation by railroad of ordinary

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONE, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

live stock in carloads, received at public stockyards, shall
include "all necessary service of unloading and . . .delivery at piblic stock yards of inbound shipments into
suitable pens . . . without extra charge therefor to the
shipper, consignee or owner. . . ." It is said that this
legislation, by requiring the carrier to deliver the live
stock into suitable pens and by prohibiting any extra
charge for all necessary service of unloading the live stock,
has left the carriers and the stock yards company, acting
together or independently, free to charge the consignee
or owner a toll for the privilege of removing his live stock
from the stock yard terminal of the carriers.
In view of the consistent policy of the law, and the
persistent but unsuccessful efforts of carriers and stock
yards to impose forbidden charges for carrier service attending the unloading and delivery of the live stock, it
would seem that the words, 'all necessary service of
unloading and . . .delivery" of live stock at a stock yard
might fairly be taken to include all those incidental services at a terminal which the carrier is bound to render for
its scheduled tariff and that "suitable pens" to which the
carrier must make the delivery must at least be taken to
mean pens to which the consignees may gain unimpeded
access for the purpose of removing their stock. But if
such is not the meaning of its language, and the statute
speaks ohly of delivery of the live stock into the pens
capable of holding them, it is difficult to see upon what
principle of statutory construction it can be said that the
section, by forbidding one unlawful practice, sanctions
another which it does not mention. Its purpose was
remedial, fo remove an old evil, and not to sanction a crop
of new ones by giving stock yards and rail carriers of
live stock carte blanche to impose vexatious charges which
for more than thirty yearg had been condemned by this
Court as unlawful

ATCHISON RY. v. UNITED STATES.
193

207

STo-m, J., dissenting.

The section was added by way of amendment to the
bill which became the Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91,
41 Stat. 456, in consequence of representations made to
the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of
the House in behalf of the American National Live Stock
Association and the National Live Stock Shippers League.
See 59 Cong. Rec. 674. Their representative made bitter
complaint of the practices of carriers and stock yards, in
adding terminal charges to the scheduled carrier rates, so
that shippers could not know in advance the cost of the
complete transportation service involved in taking live
stock from the point of shipment into the hands of the
consignee ready to receive it at point of delivery. The
resolution of the Associations asked the enactment, as a
part of the Interstate Commerce Act, of the rule of the
Covington Stock-Yards case, and specifically "that there
be one through rate on live stock for the whole services
from point of origin to the destination at public stockyards . . . which shall include unloading iiito suitable
pens and delivery therein at such sto9k yards . . .including such facilities as are necessary or in use for making such delivery." See Hearings before the Committee.
on Interstate and Foreign Commerce on H. R. 4378,
House- of Representatives, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 139,
141, 874, 875, 881.
In introducing the amendment in the Senate, Senator
Cummins, Chairman of the Interstate Commerce Com-'
mittee, referred to the request of the Live Stock Associa-tion in emphasizing the purpose of the amendment, which
he stated was to require the series of services rendered in.
connection with the transportation to be performed'for
a single schedule.t rate. 59. Cong. Rec. 674. On the coming in of the conference report on the bill recommending
it in its final form, thA House Managers made a statement
that the purpose of the amendment was to p rovide that

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
STONm, J., dissenting.

295 U. S.

the "through rates on live stock should include unloading
and other incidental charges." 59 Cong. Rec. 3264. The
legislative history from beginning to end indicates unmistakably the single purpose to give the Commission authority to remove the very abuses described and forbidden by
the Court in the Covington Stock-Yards case. It would
be an incongruous result of this legislation if, by forbidding an unlawful charge for putting the'live stock into
the unloading pens, it had made lawful the same charge
for taking it out and had thus condemned the aggrieved
shippers and consignees to the limbo from which they
were earnestly striving to escape. An interpretation of
a statute leading to an absurd result is to be avoided where
reasonably possible, as it plainly is here. See United.
States v. Katz, 271 U. S.354, 357; Hawaii v. Mankichi,
190 U. S. 197, 212.
It is true that yardage charges have been imposed.by
the appellant stock yard for many years. But, as already
indicated, the Commission found that the charge is lawful
when the live stok is removed from the unloading to the
holding pens, as is done with most shipments. It does not
appear how long and how extensively the charge has been
applied to live stock immediately removed from the unloading pens by the consignees. In any case, long continuance of an unlawful practice can neither excuse nor sanction it. See Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States,
supra,511; Louisville d-Nashville R. Co. v. United States,

282 U. S.740, 759; American Express Co. v. United States,
212 U. S. 522; Los Ang les Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294,
312, 313. I think that the Commission was right in forbidding the yardage charge as applied to live stock taken
by the consignee from the unloading pens, and that its
order should be left undisturbed.
In the present state of the ease it is unnecessary to consider whether the reparations part of the order was rightly

AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXCHANGE BANK.

209

Syllabus.

193

directed to both the stock yards and the carriers, or should
have been directed to the carriers alone.
MR. JUSTIcE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO jQin

in this opinion.
AWOTIN v. ATLAS EXQHANGE NATIONAL BANK
OF CHICAGO.
CERTIORARI TO THE APPELLATE COURT, FIRST DISTRICT, OF
ILLINOISo

No. 661.

Argued April 10, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Rev. Stats., § 5136, as amended, in providing that buying and selling of bonds, notes or debentures, commonly known as investment
securities, by national banks shall be limited to buying and selling
"without recourse," forbids not only the assumption of liability
by technical endorsement of the securities sold but also by any
form of agreement, such as a contract to repurchase them at maturity for the price paid the bank with accrued interest, by which
the bank undertakes to save its purchaser from loss incurred by
reason of his purchase. P. 211.
2. One who buys securities from a national bank accompanied by the
bank's undertaking to repurchase them at maturity for the amount
of the purchase price plus accrued interest, is charged with knowledge of the statutory prohibition against such agreements (R. S.,
§ 5136, as amended) and may neither hold the bank to the forbidden contract by estoppel nor recover the purchase money upon
tender of the securities to the'bank. -P. 213.
3. The opinion of th6 state court whose judgment is brought here for
review does not reveal whether its rejection of the contention that
it is the duty of the bank to make restitution of the purchase price
was rested upon a state ground orits interpretation of R. S., § 5136.
But this Court has jurisdiction to review the determination of the
state court that the bankjs contract to purchase- he securities is
invalid and to determine whether the federal statute precludes
restitution of the purchase money, P. 213.

275 Il. App. 530, affirmed.

