MINNIE v. PQRT HURON CO.

647

Opinion of the Court.

639

"challenge" to the "valid existence" of a claim must
have some proper basis. No such basis is shown.
We think that the Department's challenge, its adverse
proceedings, and the decision set forth in the bill went
beyond the authority conferred by law. The decree is
Affirmed.
MINNIE v. PORT HURON TERMINAL CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MICHIGAN.

No. 678.

Argued April 12, 1935.-Decided June 3, 1935.

A longshoreman, while unloading 'a vessel in navigable water, was
swept from the deck by the ship's hoist and precipitated upon the
wharf, where he was hurt by the fall. Held that the cause of
action was in admiralty. P. 648.
269 Mich. 295; 257 N. W. 831, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 704, to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Michigan vacating an award of the
state compensation commission.Mr. Eugene F. Black, with whom Mr. Jesse P. Wolcott
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Leo J. Carriganfiled a brief on behalf of respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUsTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner, a longshoreman, was injured at Port Huron
while unloading a vessel lying in navigable water. He
was about his work on the deck of the vessel when he
was struck by a swinging hoist, lifting cargo from a hatch,
and was precipitated upon the wharf. He sought compensation under the compensation act of the State of
Michigan. His employer, the Port Huron Terminal Company, contended that the accident occurred upon navi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

gable water and that the state law did not apply. The
defense was overruled by the state commission in the view
that the injury must have been occasioned by petitioner's fall upon the wharf and hence that the claim was
within the state statute, although the injury would not
have been received except for the force applied to his
person while on the vessel. The Supreme Court of the
State vacated the commission's award, holding that the
federal law controlled. 269 Mich. 295; 257 N. W. 831.
Because of an asserted conflict with decisions of this
Court, a writ of certiorari was granted.
We have held that the case of an employee injured
upon navigable waters while engaged in a maritime service is governed by the maritime law. Southern Pacific
Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Grant Smith-Porter Ship
Co. v. Rohde, 257 U. S. 469, 477. It is otherwise if the
injury takes place on land. State Industrial Comm'n v.
Nordenholt Corp., 259 U. S. 263, 272, 273; Nogueira v.
N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 281 U. S. 128, 133. In thewhich peti
instant case, the injury was due to the blow
tioner received -from the swinging crane. It was that
blow received on the vessel in navigable water which gave
rise to the cause of action, and the maritime character
of that cause of action is not altered by the fact that the
petitioner was thrown from the vessel to the land.
'We had the converse case before us in Smith & Son v.
Taylor, 276 U. S. 179. There a longshoreman, employed
in the unloading of a-vessel at a dock, was standing upon
a stage that rested solely upon the wharf and projected
a few feet over the water to or near the vessel. He was
struck by a sling loaded with cargo, which was being
lowered over the vessel's side and was knocked into the
water, where sometime later he was found dead. It was
urged that the suit was solely for the death which occurred
in the water and hence that the case was exclusively
within the admiralty jurisdiction. We held 'the argument

THE ADMIRAL PEOPLES.
647

Syllabus.

to be untenable. We said: "The blow by the sling was
what gave rise to the cause of action. It was given and'
took effect while deceased was upon the land. It was the
sole, immediate and proximate cause of his death. The
G. R. Booth, 171 U. S. 450, 460. The substance and consummation of the occurrence which gave rise to the cause
of action took place on land." 1d., p. 182.
If, when the blow from a swinging crane knocks a longshoreman from the dock into the water, the cause of action
arises on the land, it must follow, upon the same reasoning, that when he is struck upon the vessel and the blow
throws him upon the dock the cause of action arises on the
vessel. Compare Vancouver S. S. Co. v. Rice, 288 U. S.
445, 448.
The decision in L'Hote v. Crowell, 286 U. S. %i28; upon
which petitioner relies, is not opposed. In that case,.we
dealt only with the determination of the question of the
dependency of a claimant for compensation, holding that
the finding of fact by the deputy commissioner against
the claimant upon that issue should not have beea disturbed. The writ of certiorari was limited to that question. 54 F. (2d) 212; 285 U. S. 533. The judgment is
Affirmed.
THE ADMIRAL PEOPLES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 696.

Submitted April 12, 1935.-Decided June 3, 1935.

A passenger while disembarking from a ship over its gangplank, which
projected above a dock, fell from the shore end of the gangplank to
the dock and was injured by the fall. Negligence in failing to pro• The docket title of this case is: Kenward v. The Admiral Peoples
et al.

