OCTOBER TERM, 1984.

30

Syllabus.

295 U. S.

GORDON, SECRETARY OF BANKING, ET AL. V.
WASHINGTON ET AL.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 549.

Argued March 7, 1935.--Decided April 1, 1935.

1. Under the'banking laws of Pennsylvania the Secretary of Banking is authorized to take over any banking business which is in an
,unsafe and unsound condition. After filing in his office a certificate
of possession, and in the office of the prothonotary a certified copy
thereof, the Secretary has the status of an equity receiver responsible to the court in which such certificate of possession is filed. In
respect of mortgage'pools operated by banks taken over, provision
is made for their administration by the Secretary until suth time as
a substitute fiduciary is appointed by the court. Pursuant to these
laws, the Secretary came into possession of the property of a state
bank, including mortgage pools. Subsequently, owners of participation certificates in the mortgage pools brought suits in the federal
district court, praying the appointment of a receiver and the usual
injunction. No, other remedy was sought. No charge of misconduct, neglect, or mismanagement was made against the Secretary.
The District Court nevertheless appointed receivers, whereupon
the Secretary petitioned to vacate the orders, alleging that his
management of the pools was in accordance with the laws of the
State and bad been in the interest of the participants. Held:
(1) The suits for the appointment of receivers, the requisite
diversity of citizenship and jurisdictional amount being shown
,and unchallenged, were within the jurisdiction of the District
Court. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176. P. 35.
(2) The appointment of receivers, under the circumstances, was
an abuse of discretion and should have been promptly set aside on
the application of the Secretary. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294
U. S. 176; Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S. 186. P, 36.
(3) A finding of the District Court that nothing had been done
by the Banking Department to provide the means for an active,
* Together with No. 550, Gordon, Secretary of Banking, et. al. v.

O'Brien et al. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit.

GORDON v. WASHINGtON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

intelligent and responsible administration of the mortgage pools,
was without support in the record. P.'39.
2. The phrase "suits in equity" in § 11 of the Judiciary Act of 1789
refers to suits in which relief is sought iccording to the principles
applied by the English court of chancery before 1789, as they have
been developed in the federal courts. P. 36.
3. A federal court of equity should not appoint a receiver where the
appointment is not ancillary to some form of final relief which is
appropriate for equity to give.I P. 37.
4. A federal court, even in the exercise of an equity jurisdiction not
otherwise inappropriate, should not appoint a receiver to displace
the possession of a state officer lawfully administering property
for the benefit of interested parties, except where it appears that
the procedure afforded by state liw is inadequate or that it will
not be diligently and honestly followed.' Pennsylvania v. Williams,
294 U. S. 176; Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S. 186. P. 39.
73 F. (2d) 577, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 293 U. S. 553, to review a decree affirming
a decree of the District Court denying motions of the Secretary of Banking of ,Pennsylvarlia to dismiss bill ' of
complaint and to vacate the appointment of receivers
for property which was in his possession under the banking laws of the State.

Mr. JosephK. Willing, with whom Mr. Charles J. Margiotti, Attorney General of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Ship-*
pen Lewis, Special Deputy Attorney General, were on
the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. David Bortin for respondents.
MA. JUsTICE STON-E delivered the opifiion of the Court.
In these cases certiorari was granted to review
a decree of the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, 73 F. (2d) 577, which affirmed a decree of the
district court overruling motions to dismiss the bills of
complaint and to vacate the appointments of receivers.
The questions involved are of public importance. See

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Pennsylvaniav. Williams, 294 U. S. 176;, Gordon v. Ominsky, 294 U. S. 186; Penn General Casulty Co. v. Pennsylvania,294 U. S. 189.
On February 14, 1933, petitioner, the Secretary of
Banking of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, took
possession of the business and property of the Chester
County Trust Company, a Pennsylvania banking corporation. By § 21 of the Banking Act of 1923, P. L. 809, he
is authorized to take possession of and to liquidate the
business and property of banking corporations of the commonwealth which are in "an unsafe or unsound condition."
Pursuant to § 22, he filed a "certificate of possession" in
his office and on the following day filed a certified copy
of the certificate with the prothonotary of the Court of
Common Pleas of Chester County. When this is done,
he has, by § 29, the status of a receiver appointed by any
court of equity of the commonwealth.
Included in the business and property taken over by the
Secretary were two trust funds, or "mortgage pools," consisting' of mortgages held by the trust company as fiduciary, against which it had issued participation certificates
entit]:ng the holder to an undivided share in-the principal and interest of mortgages aggregating in excess of
$2,900,000 in one pool and of $1,700,000 in the other.
The Department of Banking Code of May 15, 1933, P. L.
565, which became effective July 3, 1933, provides in § 701
that the Secretary, when in possession of the business and
property of a banking corporation, shall have the status
of a general receiver and be responsible to the court in
which his certificate of possession is filed, in this case the
Court of Common Pleas of Chester County, and that he
shall exercise all the rights, powers and duties of the corporation and succeed to its title and right to possession of
all property and securities. Article IX of the Code,
§§ 901-905, provides for the disposition of the trust funds
and mortgage pools of a trust company taken-over by the
Secretary. After he has filed a notice of his intention 'to

GORDON v. WASHINGTON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

proceed with its liquidation, any certificate holder of a
mortgage pool is authorized to apply to the court for the
appointment of a substituted fiduciary of the pool. The
Secretary is required, "as soon as it may be convenient,"
to file in court an account of the securities in any mortgage pool conducted by the trust company, and he is
directed to apply for the appointment of a substituted
fiduciary of the mortgage pool if, within thirty days after
the filing of the account, no certificate holder has made
such an application. The Code thus provides for the
Secretary's possession and administration of the mortgage pools of a closed bank until such time as a substituted
fiduciary is appointed.
The bills of complaint in the present suits, naming the
Secretary as defendant, were respectively filed in the district court on August 25th and August 28th, 1933, approximately a month and three weeks after the mortgage pool
provisions of the Banking Code had become effective.
There is no material difference between the two bills of
complaint. The plaintiff in No. 549, respondent here, a
citizen of Connecticut, is alleged'to be the owner of a
participation certificate in the larger of the two pools,
and the plaintiff in No. 550, respondent here, a citizen of
New Jersey, is alleged to be the owner of a participation
certificate in the smaller. Each bill, after stating the
facts already detailed with respect to the Secretary's possession of the property of the trust company, including
the mortgage pools, alleged that the plaintiff had received
no interest or income on his participation certificate after
the ecretary had taken possession; that the Secretary
had filed no account of the mortgage pools; and avers,
on information and belief, "that interest on many of the
mortgages comprising said pool has not been paid . . .
and that little effort is made to secure the collection of the
interest. .. ." It is also alleged that "there is danger of
sales by the respective authorities by reaon of the nonpayment of taxes on said properties and that little effort

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

is being made to compel the payment of taxes. . . ." The
bills contain no charge of improper conduct, neglect or
mismanagement, or any allegation that the failure of the
mortgagors to pay interest and taxes was due to want of
diligence on the part of the Secretary. "They pray the
appointment of a receiver to take charge of, conserve and
administer all the assets comprising the mortgage pools,
but they do not ask the appointment of a new trustee or
the removal of the Secretary, or pray any directions or
instructions to him, or any other relief except the usual
injunction in aid of the receivership.
On the day the bill of complaint in the second suit was
filed, attorneys for the plaintiffs filed motions for the appointment of receivers. Two days later, on August 30,
1933, upon telephone notice to the petitioners of an hour
and a half, the district judge heard the motions and appointed receivers. The Secretary failed to surrender the
mortgage pools to the receivers and the district court issued, on September 2, 1933, a rule to show cause why the
Secretary should not be adjudged in contempt. On
September 4th, the Court of Common Pleas of Chester
County, upon application by a mortgage pool~certificate
holder, issued an injunction restraining the Secretary
from relinquishing possession of the mortgage pool assets
until further order of the court. On September 5th, the
petitioner filed answers to the petitions to punish for
contempt, and made motions, on affidavits and petitions,
to dismiss the bills and to vacate the appointment of the
receivers. Both motions assailed the bills as not stating
facts to show that damage would be suffered by any party
in interest if receivers were not appointed. The motions
to dismiss also challenged the "authority" of the district
court to appoint receivers. In the petitions to vacate the
orders appointing receivers, it was alleged that since the
closing of the trust company the Secretary had continued
to operate the mortgage pools and was ready to file with
the Court of Common Pleas his account of assets compris-

GORDON v. WASHINGTON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

ing the pools, that his management of them was in accordance with the Pennsylvania statutes, and that he had
conducted the mortgage pools "with the utmost regard
for the interests of the participants." No action appears
to have been taken upon the.motion to adjudge the petitioners in contempt, but in denying, upon the pleadings
and motion papers, the motions to dismiss and to vacate
the orders appointing receivers, the district court ruled
that it had jurisdiction of the cause as a federal court, and
found that nothing had been done by the Banking Department " to provide the means for an active, intelligent,
responsible administration of its pools."
The Court of Appeals ruled that the district court had
jurisdiction, since the Secretary, in taking possession of
the mortgage pools, had acted by authority of the statute
and not under any order or decree of the state court. The
assets, it was said, were not in the actual or constructive
possession of the state court, and consequently there was
no occasion to apply the rule of comity under which a federal court will relinquish its juridiction in favor of a
state court which has first acquired possession of the property which is the subject of .suit. See Penn Casualty Co.
v. Pennsylvania, supra. Upon the basis of the finding of
the district court that the Banking Department had failed
to provide suitable means for the administration of the
pools, it concluded that no abuse of discretion in the
appointment of receivers had been shown.
From what this Court has recently said in Pennsylvania
v. Williams, supra, it is evident that the district court correctly determined that it had jurisdiction of the cause.
The requisite diversity of citizenship and the jurisdictional amount in controversy are shown by the record and
are unchallenged. The relief prayed was that which a
court of equity is competent to give. The bills of complaint were therefore sufficient to invoke the power and
authority conferred on the district court, by the Consti-

36

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tution and statute§ of the United States, to entertain the
suit
and render an appropriate decree.
I Since
the court had power to act, it is necessary to
consider the various objections urged to the decree only insofar as they are addressed to the propriety of its action
as a court of equity. These objections were not foreclosed
by the determination that the court had jurisdiction. By
the Judiciary Act of 1789, c. 20, § 11, 1 Stat. 73, 78;
U. S. C., Tit. 28, § 41 (1), the lower federal courts were
in equity,"
given original jurisdiction "of suits
where the other jurisdictional requisites are satisfied.
From the beginning, the phrase "suits in equity" has
been understood to refer to suits in which relief is sought
according to the principles applied by the English court
of chancery before 1789, as they have been developed in
the federal courts.' Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212,
221-223; United States v. Howland, 4 Wheat. 108, 115;
Waterman v. Canal-Louisiana Bank & Trust Co., 215
U. S.33, 43. When the petitioners challenged the sufficiency of the bills of complaint and the appropriateness
of the appointment of receivers, it was not enough for the
district court to decide that as a federal court it had power
to act. It should also have determined whether, in accordance with the accepted principles of equity, any state
of facts was presented to it which called for the exercise
of its extraordinary powers as a court of equity. See
Pennsylvaniav. Williams, supra.
The sole relief prayed by the bills was the appointment of r6ceivers and the command of the court that
property, shown to be in 'the lawful possession of the pe'The Act of May 8, 1792, c.36, § 2, 1 Stat. 275, 276; U. S. C., Tit.
28, § 723, :uither provided "That ... . the forms and modes of
proceeding in suits . . . shall be ... in those of equity . . .. according to the principles, rules and usages which belong to courts of
equity . . . as contradistinguished from courts of common law.
."
See Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212, 221, 222.

GORDON v. WASHINGTON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

titioner acting as a temporary trustee or fiduciary, be surrendered to -them. A receivership is only a means to
reach some legitimate end sought through the exercise of
the power of a court of equity. It is not an end ifi itself.
Where a final decree involving, the disposition of property
is appropriately asked, the court in its discretion may appoint a receiver to- preserve and protect the property
pending its final disposition. For that purpose, the court
may appoint a receiver of mortgaged property to protect
and conserve it pending foreclosure, Wallace v. Loomis,
97 U. S. 146, 162; Union Trust Co. v. Illinois Midland
Ry. Co., 117 U. S. 434, 455; Hitz v. Jenks, 123 U. S. 297,
306; Freedman's Saving & Trust Co. v. Shepherd, 127
U. S. 494, 500-504; Shepherd v. Pepper, 133 U. S. 626,
652, of trust property pending the appointment of a new
trustee, Underground Electric Rys. Co. v. Owsley, 176
Fed. 26 (C. C. A. 2d); Ball v. Tompkins, 41 Fed. 486,
489 (C.C.); cf. Haines v. Carpenter, 1 Woods 262, aff'd
91 U. S. 254, or of property which a judgment creditor
seeks to have applied to the satisfaction of his judgment,
Covington DrawbridgeCo. v. Shepherd, 21 How. 112,125;
Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance Go., 22 How. 380, 392; Ingle.v.
ones, 9 Wall. 486, 498.
But there is no occasion for a court of equity to appoint
a receiver of- property of which it is asked to make no
further disposition.. The English chancery court from
the beginning declined to exercise its jurisdiction for that
purpose. Anon~ymous, 1 Atkyns 489, 578; Ex parte Whitfield, 2 Atkyns 315; Goodman v. Whitcomb, 1 Jacob &
Walker 589, 592; Robinson v. Hadley, 11 Beavan 614;
Roberts v. Eberhardt, Kay 148, 160, 161.2 It is true that
'The jurisdiction of the English court of chancery to appoint a
receiver for the estates of infants, even though no other relief be
asked, is a statutory development since 1789. 4 and 5 Wm.IV, c.78,
§ 7. The appointment of a receiver for the estate of a lunatic is a
non-judicial duty performed for the Crown pursuant to statute. 17

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the receivership of an insolvent corporation, upon the application of'a simple contract creditor with 'the consent
of the corporation, .has been recognized by the federal
'courts as an appropriate. form of relief when the end
sought is the liquidation of the assets and their equitable
distribution amohg the creditors. Brown v. Lake Superiorjron Co., 134 U. S. 530; Re Metropolitan Railway
Receivership, 208 U. S. 90, 109, 110; Pusey & Jones Co. v.
Hanssen, 261 U. S. 491, 500, 501; United States v.
Butterworth.Judson Corp., 269 U. S. 504, 513, 514; compare Harinv. Brundage, 276 U. S. 36, 52; Michigan v
Michigan Trust Co., 286 U. S. 334, 345; Shapiro v. Wilgus,
287 U. S. 348, 356; National Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289
U. S. 426, 436; FirstNational Bank v. Flershem, 290 U. S.
'504, 525. Whether this exercis6 of jurisdiction, to liquidate or conserve the assets, of a corporation through the
agency of a receivership, is to be- supported as an extension of that xercised over decedents' estates, see Glenn on
Liquidation, §§ 154-161, or of remedies afforded to judgment creditors where legal remodies are inadequate, see
ManhattanRubberMfg. Go. v. Lucey Mfg. Co., 5 F. (2d)
39, 42 (C, C. A. 2nd)-, it has never been extended to other
classes of cases. Whenever the attempt thus to extend it,
by using the receivership aesan end instead of a.means,
has been brought to the attention of this Court, it has
pointed out that a federal court of equity will not appoint
a receiver where the appointment is not ancillary to some
form of final relief which is appropriate for eluity to give.
Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen,supra,497; Booth v. Clark.
Edw.' II, c. 9, 10; see Sheldon v. Fortesque,3 Peere Williams 104, n.
108. 'Further provisions for appointment of receivers by interlocu-

tory decree, v%henever "just or convenient," were included .in the
Judicature Act, 1873, 30 & 37 Victoria, c. 66, § 25 (8).
*See also the authorities collected and discussed in Kroeger, The
Jurisdiction of Courts of Equity to Administer Insolvents' Estates,
9 St. Louis Law Rev., 87, 179.

GORDON v. WASHINGTON.
30

Opinion of the Court.

17 How. 322, 331; see Lion Bonding & Surety Co. v.
Karatz, 262 U. S. 77; Hollins v. Brierfield Coal & Iron Co.,
150 U. S.371.
Respondents' bills of complaint not only failed "t seek
any remedy other than the appointment of receivers, but
they failed to disclose any basis for equitable relief by the
appointment of receiVers or otherwise. Respondents are
not shown to be creditors, much less judgment creditors.
As beneficiaries of the fiduciary relationship of the trust
cor4pany, and later of the Secretary, to the mortgage
pools, they -failed to alJege misconduct or neglect on
which any equitable relief could be predicated. They did
not show that there was any danger to the assets of the
mortgage pools, or to their management, which would be
avoided or removed by the appointment of receivers.
Petitioner did not waive these defects of the bills, or
consent to the appointrhent of receivers.
We have recently had occasion to point out that a federal court, even in the exercise of an equity jurisdiction
-not otherwise ihappropriate, should not appoint a receiver
to displace the possession of a state officer lawfully administering property for the benefit of interested parties, except where it appears that the procedure afforded by.
state law is inadequate or thai it will not be diligently
and honestly fOlowed. Gordon v. Ominsky, supia; Pennsylvania v. Williams, supra. Even when the bill of cornplaint states a cause of action in equity, the summary
remedy by receivership, with the -attendant burdensome
expense, should be resorted to only on a plain showing of
some threatened loss or injury to the property, which the
receivership .would avoid. Here no such showing was-.
made. It is true the district court fund that nothing had
been doiF by the Banking Department to provide the
means for an active, intelligent and responsible administration ol the mortgage pools.' The Court of -Appeals,
on the basis of this finding, thought there had been no

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

abuse of discretion. But that finding is without support
inthe record.
The court below erred in not directing dismissal of the
bills of complaint as failing to state a cause of action in
equity. The appointment of receivers, in the circumstances, was an abuse of discretion which should have
been promptly set aside on the applications of the petitioner. The decrees below will be reversed and the cause
remanded with directions to the district court to dismiss
the bills and discharge the receivers.
Reversed.
NEBRASKA v. WYOMING.
No. 16, original. Motion to dismiss submitted January 21, 1935.Argued March 13, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.
1. Upon motion to dismiss a bill of complaint in an original proceeding brought in this Court by Nebraska against Wyoming for
the equitable apportionment, as between the two States, of the
waters of the North Platte River, and for an injunction, held:
(1) The State of Colorado, against whom the, complainant
. alleges no wrongful act and aski no relief, is not an indispensable
party to the proceeding, even though the river rises and drains a
large area in that State. P. 43.
(2) The.Secretary of the Interior, whose rights as an appropriator in Wyoming; in connection with projects authorized by
the Reclamation Act, are subject to the law of that State, will be
bound by an adjudication of the State's rights, and is not an
indispensable party. P. 43.
(3) The allegations of the bill are not vague and indefinite, but
state a caute of action in equity entitling the complainant to the
relief prayed. P. 44.
2. A contention 'that the complainant is chargeable with such a
failure to do equity as requires a dismissal of the bill, examined
and rejected: P. 44.
Motion denied.

BILL OF COMPLAINT in an original proceeding brought
by Nebraska against Wyoming to have determined the

