REALTY CORP. v. O'CONNOR.
Statement of the Case.

REALTY ASSOCIATES SECURITIES CORP. ET AL.
v. O'CONNOR ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 625. Argued April 8, 9, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. The compensation of referees in bankruptcy for performance of
their public duties, is limited to what is clearly warranted by
law. P. 299.
2. The provision in § 40 (a) of the-Bankruptcy Act i.llowing the
referee one-half of 1% upon the amount to be paid to creditors
upon the confirmation of a composition, must be construed in
harmony with the policy of Congress to prevent extravagance in
bankruptcy administration. P. 299.
3. Bondholders of the bankrupt agreed to a composition providing
for immediate payment of 15% of the par value of their bonds
in cash; postponement of the time for paying the remaining principal; and reeluction of interest rate, the interest to be paid only
out of earnings, but to be cumulative and payable in full upon
maturity of the principal. The composition also provided that
they should be represented on the Board of Directors of the bankrupt company, and there were to be restrictions on the company's
investments and creation of new debts. Held, that "the amount
to be paid "'upon which the referee's compensation should be computed under § 40 (a), supra, was not the full principal amount of
the bonds, but wa.'fno more than the 15% cash plus the market
valae of the bonds as it would be after applying the 15% in
reduction of the principal. P. 300.
4. General Order XLVIII (4), which fixes the commissions of referees in proceedings under § 74 of the Bankruptcy Act, can not
control in the judicial determination of the compensation allowable in proceedings under § 12 of the act. P. 300.
74 F. (2d) 61, reversed; District Court, 6 F. Supp. 549, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 701, to review the reversal of an
order of the Bankruptcy Court, 6 F. Supp. 549, fixing the
compensation of a referee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Mr. Alfred T. Davison for Realty Associates Securities
Corp., petitioner.
Mr. James N. Rosenberg for Realty Associates, Inc.,
petitioner.
Mr. George C. Levin, with whom Messrs. Sydney
Krause and George 1. Hirsch were on the brief, for
O'Connor, respondent.
- Mr. Archibald Palmer for Eliza B. Carmen et al., respondents.
MR. JUsTICE CAMwozo delivered the opinion of the Court.
The controversy is one as to the compensation of a
referee in bankruptcy upon a composition with the
creditors.
RealtyAssociates Securities Corporation was adjudged a
bankrupt, July 10, 1933, upon the filing of a voluntary
petition. At the same time the proceeding was sent to
a referee in bankruptcy. The chief claims ($12,631,949.67) were on bonds, issued under indentures between
the bankrupt and a trust company as trustee. The other
claims were only $208,133.90, of which amount one for
$207,583.95 is contested and undetermined. On February
16, 1934, the bankrupt made an offer to the creditors of
terms of composition pursuant to the statute (Bankruptcy
Act, 30 Stat. 549, c. 541, § 12; '11 U. S. C. § 30), which
offer was accepted by the requisite majority. The District Judge found the composition to be for the best
interests of the creditors (Bankruptcy Act, § 12 (d)) and
confirmed it. By its terms, all creditors were to receive
cash for fifteen per cent of the amount of their claims asfiled and allowed. Holders of bonds (after crediting the
cash) were to extend and otherwise modify the obligation
for the remaining eighty-five per cent. Creditors not
bondholders, an almost negligible number, were to receive

REALTY CORP. v. O'CONNOR.
295

297

Opinion of the Court.

bonds in the treasury of the company reduced and modiLed in the same way. The time for the payment of the
principal was postponed until October 1, 1943; the rate
of interest was lowered from six per cent to five; the
interest accruing semiannually before October, 1943 was
to be payable only out of earnings, but the liability was to
be cumulative, and upon maturity of. the principal was
to be discharged in full; the creditors were to be represented on the Board of Directors; and there were to be
restrictions on investments and on the creation of new
debts. The composition did not call for the cancellation or surrender of bonds then outstanding. There was,
however, to be attached to each of them a rider, described
as a "notation of reduction and modification," which was
to be evidence of the foregoing changes. Cash in the
requisite amount was deposited with the clerk of the
court, and other instruments, so far as necessary, were
signed and filed.
In the meantime a question had arisen as to the compensation payable to the referee. "Referees shall receive
as full compensation for their services . . . one half of
1 per centum upon the amount to be paid to creditors
upon the confirmation of a composition." Bankruptcy
Act, § 40 (a); 11 U. S. C. § 68.* The creditors took the
position that the percentage was to be computed upon
the cash, and nothing else. The cash payments being
"(a) Referees shall receive as full compensation for their services,
payable after they are rendered, a fee of $15 deposited with the clerk
at the time the petition is filed in each case, except when a fee is
not required from a voluntary bankrupt, and 25 cents for every proof
of claim filed 'for allowance, to be paid from the estate, if any, as a
part of the cost of administration, and from estates which have been
administered before them 1 per centum commissions on all moneys
disbursed to creditors by the trustee, or one-half of 1 per c~ntum
on the amount to be paid to creditors upon the confirmation of a
composition."

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the,Court.

295 U. S.

$2,091,129.04, the compensation on that basis would be
$10,455.65. The referee maintained that he was entitled
to a percentage not only on the cash, but also on the face
amount of the principal payable upon the bonds nearly
ten years thereafter. Figuring the total cash and bonds
at $13,008,038.31, he arrived at a fee of $65,040.19. The
District Judge followed an intermediate course. 6 F.
Supp. 549. Testimony was received that the bonds were
then'selling in the market, after public notice of the
composition, at 37% of par, and that their market value
would be 22% when the principal had been reduced by a
credit of 15% in cash. The District Judge estimated the
bonds as equivalent to cash t6 the extent of 22% of the
par value of the principal. The total fees thus figured
were $24,064.87. An order was made accordingly.
The creditors took no appeal, acquiescing in the award,
though some believed it to be too large. The referee,
however, did appeal. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit sustained the position of the referee, one
judge dissenting. 74 F. (2d) 61. The decision was that
in figuring the commissions the bonds were to be reckoned
as a payment of the full amount of the principal payable'
thereunder. On the petition of the bankrupt and a creditor a writ of certiorari issued from this court.
We think it an unreasonable view of the meaning of
the statute (Bankruptcy Act, § 40; 11 U. S. C., § 68)
that would treat the bonds of the bankrupt in the situation here developed as equivalent to cash.
In determining the effect of any particular composition,
a "payment " or an "amount paid" must have a sensibld construction, which may vary in one case and another
according to the facts. Here, at the date. of the bankruptcy, creditors were the owners of the bonds of the
bankrupt, its promises, non-negotiable in form, for the
payment of money, to the extent of nearly '$13,000,000.
At the date of the composition and afterwards, they held
the same bonds, scaled down in amount as to principal

REALTY CORP. v. O'CONNOR.
295

Opinion of the Court.

and interest, and with some of the terms varied, but still
the same bonds with the promises to pay not fulfilled,
nor even accelerated, but on the contrary deferred. Common sense revolts at the suggestion that creditors have
been paid for this purpose or for any other when all that
has happened is that they have been left in possession of
the old promises of the debtor, reduced in, amount and
extended as to time.
Referees in bankruptcy are public officers (11 U. S. C.
§§ 61 64), and officers of a court. Like public.officers
generally, they must show clear warrant of law before
compensation will be owing to them for the performance
of their public duties. United States v. Garlinger, 169
U. S. 316. 321; People ex rel. Rand v. Craig, 231 N. Y.
216, 221. Extravagant costs of administration in the
winding up of estates in. bankruptcy have been denounced
as crying evils; Strengthening Procedure in the Bankruptcy System, Sen. Doc. No. 65, 72d Congress, 1st Sess.,
(1932), p. 53; also H. R. Rep. 65, 55th Congress, 2d Sess.
(1898), p. 44. In rbsponse to those complaints, Congress
has attempted in the enactment of the present statute to
fix a limit for expenses growing out of the services of
referees and receivers. Bankruptcy Act §§ 40, 48 (d)
(e); 11 U. S. C. §§ 68, 76. The pay for referees is no
longer- involved in uncertainty as to the applicable percentage. By mischance there is still uncertainty at times
as to the principal amount to which the rate is to be
applied. In cases of composition the principal is "the
amc nt to be paid to creditors upon the confirmation,"
and before we can compute what is due we must know
what payment is. The ascertainment of that fact, like
the ascertainment of facts generally in the discharge of
the judicial function, is a process that must be flexible
and broad enough to keep all the circumstances in view.
In weighing their significance a court will not forget that
Congress meant to hit the evil of extravagance, and that
the meaning of its words, if doubtful, must be adapted

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

to its aim. If this is kept in mind, certain inferences will
follow. One of them will be that a promise is not payment unless it would naturally be so regarded in the
common speech of men, and that the extent of the payment, whether partial or complete, must be subject to a
kindred test.
Viewing this case from that angle of vision, we hold that
the referee had full compensation in the award of commissions that was made by the District Judge. Whether
he was entitled to as much, we do not now determine, the
creditors and the bankrupt, who were at liberty to oppose,
having preferred to acquiesce. For present purposes it is
enough that he was not entitled to more. The bonds had
a value in the market that would have made it possible for
a creditor to convert them into money at 22% of par. If
present values were to be estimated, this was the present
value of the promise of the debtor as of the date of composition. To find anything in addition would be to capitalize a hope.
The facts of the case before us define the scope of our
decision. We are not required to adjudge the effect to be
given to the acceptance of bonds or notes when made in
different circumstances or with other possibilities of benefit. For like reasons there can be no profit in stating or
analyzing the holdings in other federal courts. In re Batterman, 231 Fed. 699; In re Mills Tea & Butter Co., 235
Fed. 815; American Surety Co. v. Freed, 224 Fed. 333;
In re J. B. White Co., 225 Fed. 796; Kinkead v. J. Bacon
& Sons, 230 Fed. 362; In re Columbia Cotton Oil & Provision Corp., 210 Fed. 824. They grew out of situations
very different from this one, and are not consistent with
one another. No principle of general application can be
extracted from them.
The respondent referee invok.es the analogy of General
Order XLVIII (4), adopted April 24,1933 (288 U. S. 636,
637), which fixes the commissions of referees in proceed-

ATLANTIC COAST LINE v. FLORIDA.
295

301

Syllabus.

ings under § 74 of the Bankruptcy Act. Section 74 (11
U. S. C. § 202) and the rules applicable thereto have relation to proceedings for the relief of a debtor not a bankrupt who seeks a composition or an extension of his debts.
The present proceeding under § 12 of the act (11 U. S. C.
§ 30) is for a composition by a bankrupt. The general
order was passed in the exercise of the rule-making power,
and was directed to proceedings of a particular class. The
jurisdiction that we now exercise is part of the judicial
function, and is directed to proceedings of a different class.
The one does not control the other. Meek v. Centre
County Banking Co., 268 U. S. 426, 434; West Co. v. Lea,
174)U. S. 590, 599.
We find no merit in the objection that there has been
an omis-ion of parties whose presence is essential to the
exercise of our supervisory jurisdiction.

The decree of the 'Circuit Court of Appeals should be
reversed, and that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD CO. v. FLOR-

IDI ET A.*
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT C6 THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.

No. 344. Argued January 17, 18, 1935. Reargued March 4, 5,
1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
Higher intrastate rates were substituted for lower intrastate rates
by an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission upon the
ground that the lower ones were so low as to result in unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. The order was upheld
* Together with No. 345, Florida et al. v. United States et aL

Appeal from the Distriet-ourt of the United States for the Northern
District of Georgia.

