264

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

ROBERTS, RECEIVER, ET AL. v. NEW YORK CITY
ETAI4
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 546. Argued April 2, 3, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. In condemnation proceedings, as in lawsuits generally, the Fourteenth Amendment is not a guaranty that a trial shall be devoid
of error. P. 277.
2. A mere underestimate cf'the compensation to be paid for property
taken in condemnatin will not characterize the proceeding, otherwise fair, as wanting due process; the error must be gross and
obvious. P. 277.
3. The City of New York condemned and removed a spur of an
elevated railway system, which, in operation, was no longer of
value to the business and which had been found by state authority
to be no longer a public convenience and necessity and to have
become an obstruction to the public use of the street in which it
stood. The state courts in determining damages, which were assessed against the owners of the abutting lots, allowed the company
nothing on account of its franchise or its easement to use the
street, and only the scrap value of the demolished structure. For
so-called easements--i. e. the right to obstruct or impair each
abutter's easements of light, air and access-which by the law of
New York the Company had been obliged to acquire by purchase
or condemnation as a condition to lawful erection and operation of
the spur, the award was the amount judicially determined to be
their value when the rights were acquired from the abutters years
before-an amount much less than would be the cost of acquiring
them anew, in 'changed conditions. Held:
(1) Whatever the precise classification of the rights acquired
from abutting owners, they are not separable from the franchise;
and it can not be said that the state courts infringed the constitutional limitation, or even that they erred as a matter of law, in
valuing them at no more than their original cost. P. 281.
(2) It was not arbitrary or unreasonable, upon the evidence, to
value the structure as scrap (since the value of the "easements"
could be realized only by abandoning the spur), and to allow
nothing on account of the railway's corporate franchise or its
public easement in the street. P. 284.

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Argument for Petitioners.

4. Damages in condemnation are measured by the loss to the owner,not by the gain to the taker. P. 282.
265 N. Y. 170; 192 N. E. 188, affirmed.

CEuRnoRAi, 293 U. S. 554, to review a judgment sustaining an assessment of damages for the taking in condemnation by the City of a spur forming part of the
elevated railway system of the Manhattan Railway Company. Reports of the earlier proceedings in the State
Supreme Court at trial term and in the Appellate Division will be found in: 126 Misc. 879; 141 id. 565; 143 id.
129; 229 App. Div. 617; 238 id. 832.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, Jr., with whom Messrs. E.
Myron Bull, Carl M. Owen, .. Osgood Nichols, Harold
C. McCollom, Martin A. Schenck, Charles Franklin,
and George Welwood Murray were on the brief, for
petitioners.
The decree below arbitrarily measured compensation
by the value of the easements at the time of their acquisition by the railroad, rather than as of the time qf the
taking, and ignored the availability of this property for
sale or for uses for other than railroad purposes.
That which the railroad acquired from the abutting
owners was "an interest in real estate," an "easement."
The Federal Constitution requires that in condemnation, compensation must be measured by the value of
the property at the time of the taking, and not by its
cost or its value at the time of the owner's acquisition
thereof. Olson v. United States, 292 U. S. 246.
The value of these private easements has always been
judicially recognized to be the difference between the
value of the abutting property when subject to the railroad's easements and its value when not so subject. Pappenheim v. Metropolitan Elevated Ry. Co., 128 N. Y.
436, 449; .Matter of Brooklyn Union Elevated R. Co., 113
App. Div. 817, aff'd, 188 N. Y. 553; Muhiker v. New

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

295 U. S.

York & Harlem R. Co., 197 U. S. 544, 571. This was the
basis of the opinions of market value given by the undisputed testimony of the railroad's expert at the trial.
Even if the operation of the spur had been unprofitable,
to limit consideration to the railroad's use of the property
and ignore its availability for other uses or for sale, was a
violation of the constitutional guaranty. Olson v. United
States, 292 U. S. 246, 255, 256; Boom Co. v. Patterson,
98 U. S. 403, 408; Goodin v. Cincinnati & Whitewater
Canal Co., 18 Oh. St. 169, 181; City & South London Ry.
Co. and The Recto', [1903] 2 K. B. 728; [1905] 1 A. C.
1; Great Falls Mfg. Co. v. United States, 16 Ct. Cls. 160,
198-199; aff'd, 112 U. S. 645. Distinguishing: Boston
Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195.
What the owner lost was property which has always
been valued in relation to the abutting property. It so
happens that the abutting property gains the equivalent.
But an award measured by the difference between the
value of the abutting property when subject to the railroad's easement and its value when not so subject would
be in no sense measuring the compensation by what the
taker gained rather than by what the owner lost. It
would be the natural method of recognizing availability
to the owner for a valuable use. This was its recognizable fair market value at and prior to the time of condemnation and it was precisely what the railroad would
have had to pay in order to acquire the same property at
the date of condemnation. See In re East Galer Street,
47 Wash. 603.
Of course the railroad could not have released the easements and still have continued to operate. But the railroad could have realized the value of the easements by an
agreement made prior to, and as a condition of, the release.
This conception of the availability of these easements
for sale to the abutting owners was by no means speculative; nor does it infringe the rule that the value to be

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

267

Argument for Petitioners.

ascertained does not include "-any element resulting subsequently to or because of the taking." Olson v. "United
States, 292 U. S. 246, 256. On the contrary, this availability existed prior to the condemnation and was taken
away by the condemnation.
Section 237 of the New York Railroad Law gave to the
railroad the right to abandon any portion 6f its right
subject to the approval of the Public Service Commission.
This obviously made possible a negotiation with the abutting property owners. It would have been entirely coinpetent for the railroad company.to go to the property
owners and offer in effect to sell these private easements
back to them.
The views of the public authorities on the desirability
of restoring the street to unimpeded street uses make it
reasonably certain that. such approval woul1 have been
forthcoming. The .relatively small number of abutting
owners, and their active desire to secure the removal of
the spur, satisfy every requirement of practicability of
such a disposition.
This proceeding in fact was one whereby, at the instance of the abutting property owners, the structure was
removed and the easements were restored to them, a part
of the cost being imposed upon them.
The plan of the statutes and the action taken thereunder were such as to constitute the abutting owners,
or the city as an intermediary, the 'willing purchaser'
assumed in determining fair market vilue. A negotiated
sale was feasible also under the statutes involved.
The statutes effected exactly the result which was
intended, namely, that the properties, including the easements, should be taken, the easements and other benefits
restored to the property owners, the cost imposed. upon
them, and the compensation fixed by the court, if. *.it
could not be arrived at by agreement. This -plan was
such as to provide for compensation based, as in the case

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioners.

295 U. S.

of any other property, on the fair market value between
willing seller and wvilling purchaser at the time of vesting
of title. Apart from our argument that the easements
were prior to the condemnation available for disposition
to the abutting property owners, the condemnation statutes themselves contemplated full compensation regardless of limitations, if any, arising from railroad use.
Matter of Ninth Avenue and Fifteenth Street, 45 N. Y.
729, 732-5; In re The City & South London Ry. Co. and
The Rector, [1903] 2 K. B. 728; [1905] 1 A. C. 1. See
also Brooklyn Park Comm'rs v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y. 234.
Whether it be considered that the City took the easements directly for the purpose of what might be termed a
resale, or whether it be considered that the City took
them inreality as intermediary for the abutting owners, it
is certain that the City took this form of property possessed by the Railway Company, which had a clearly
available use and a clearly and readily ascertainable market value; and that unless the Railway Company shall
be paid for what was thus transferred to the property
owners, the result--contrary to the clear intention of the
Legislature-will be to do what the law has always prohibited; that is, to "take the private property of one
individual, without his consent, and give it to another."
New York & Oswego M. R. R. Co. v. Van Horn, 57 N. Y.
473, 477; see also, Matter of the Mayor of New York, 186
N. Y. 237, 246. Distinguishing: Heard v. Brooklyn, 60
N. Y. 242.
There was no abandonment. The railroad could not
have been compelled to abandon.
The easements were taken in perpetuity by the railroad
and paid for on that basis, and there was no diminution
of such payment by reason of the possibility of a reverter.
Hudson & Manhattan R. Co. v. Wendell, 193 N. Y. 166,
179; Miner v. New York CentraZ & H. R. R. Co., 123

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Argument for- Petitioners.

N. Y. 242; New Mexico v. United States Trust Co., 172
U. S. 171.
Due process of law was denied by the judgment that
only junk value should be paid for the railway structure,
which had been found to be suitable and well adapted to
its purpose, and that no compensation should be made
for the railroad's franchise and rights in the street.
The railroad consistently opposed the removal of the
spur.

The franchise was terminated only by this very- condemnation. It is a strange doctrine that a structure
which at the time of condemnation was properly in the
street will be given only a-nuisance value because by the
consummation of the proceeding its maintenance became
unlawful.
There has in fact never been any finding that the spur
was an unprofitable venture. It produced an operating
loss; but it was a part of a system operated at a profit.
Even considered by itself, the spur was no inconsiderable
property. Its use was increasing and was greater than
in many earlier years.
The protection against confiscation by eminent domain
of the whole category of properties not profitable in and
of themselves, but provided under franchise requirements
by railway and other public service corporations in response to public demand, is involved in the determination
in this case that the structure, franchise and public easements may be taken without substantial compensation.
Where, as in th~e present case, the structure is found to
be suitable and well adapted for its purpose, and used
as part of a plant, so-called structural value, or the cost
of reproduction less depreciation, is an important element which must be taken into consideration in ascertaining its value in condemnation.
The structure when taken was real estate. It was"
error to value it as detached junked personalty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for New York City.

295 U. S.

The acceptance of the franchise and the building of
the structure under its requirement constituted a contract between the State and the railroad which was property protected by the Constitution.
A franchise " can no more be taken without compentangible corporeal property."
.
sation than can .
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S.
312, 329. Compensation may not be measured by regarding only the income produced by the spur considered
by itself. It was an integral part of the profitably operated Third Avenue Line. The railroad under the City's
grant acquired, as against the City, the right to occupy
with its columns, station approaches and so forth, valuable street space.
Whether these public easements were of so distinct a
nature that they should have been separately valued,
or wera, as the lower courts have held, so inseparable
from the franchise that it and they must be considered
as a single entity, they could not, we submit, be taken
wholly without compensation.
Mr. Paxton Blair,with whom Mr. Joseph F. Mulqueen,
Jr., was on the brief, for the City of New York,
respondent.
The failure of the railroad to appeal from the decision
of the Public Service Commission disentitles it to relief in
this Court. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S. 210,
230; Gorham Mfg. Co. v. State Tax Comrn'n, 266 U. S.
265, 269-270.
Under the doctrine of Heard v. Brooklyn, 60 N. Y. 242,
the easements acquired by the railroad reverted auto.matically to the abutting owners when the operation of
the railroad ceased. See also, Drucker v. ManhattanRy.
Co., 213 N. Y. 543.
The theory of unjust enrichment may rt, be invoked
to justify an increase in the awards.

MAP OF

NEW JERSEY- DELAWARE BOUNDARY
-------m

IN

DELAWARE RIVER & DELAWARE BAY
TOACCOt.$ANY

THE DECREE OF THE SUPREME COURTOF THE LRM.TED
STATES
BEING
A COMPOSITE
MAPCOMBINING
ANDREDUCNG
U.SC.&G.S.
CHARTS294. 295 (SEPT1933)AND 1218 (AUG.1932)TOSHOW
BOUNDARY
BETWEENNEW JERSEYANDDELAWARE
SETTLED
BYTHEFINALDECREE
Or THE SUPREMECOURTOF THE
UNITEDSTATES-PURSUANT
TOTHEOPINION
OF THE COURT
REPORTED
IN 29 US, 361

mIt T

NIN*

II
II

NNt~

---.--=_,..=.".";=..=

S

• . .-

A,
...-

-,L" -",

.,

\..-

.

%

. . .-

/

.

.

"

•6

,

-

.

-,.A

tI -ov

4 ,'

.....----.--

-

.

-.

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Argument for Respondents.

In contending that the easements for which the railway
company paid 4aluable consideration in the years 18881904 were taken at the time of the condemnation of the
42nd Street Spur, the petitioners appear to have lost
sight of the distinction between the "taking" of a piece
of property, and the termination of an incorporeal right.
Cf. Omnia Commercial Co. v. United States, 261 U. S.
502, 508. See also, Mullen Benevolent Corp. v. United
States, 290 U. S. 89, 95.
The "most advantageous use" doctrine has no application to an elevated spur which under the law can be
used for but a single purpose. Olson v. United States,
292 U. S. 246, 255; Boom Co. v. Patterson,, 98 U. S. 403.
408; Matter of City of New York (Blackwell's Island
Bridge Case), '198 N. Y. 84, 87.
M1fr. Win. D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. Albert S.
Wright and Ellwood Thibmas were on the brief, for Robert 'Walton Goelet et al., respondents.
In a condemnation case from a state court reaching
this Court on the claim of denial of due process, the function of this Court is not to act as a court of appeal and
error. It will not substitute its judgment for that of
the state courts on disputed questions of fact or debatable questions of law. Notwithstanding the stite courts
may have committed errors of law or fact, or applied
erroneous principles of valuation, if the record, as in this
case, contains all the evidence proffered by the claimant, this Court should not hold that due process has been
denied, unless on the whole record it concludes the award
does not approximate fair compensation computed on correct principles. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 226, 246; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co., 169
U. S. 557, 565; Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524; McGovern v. New York City, 229 U. S. 363, 370; Seattle, R. &
S. Ry. Co. v. Washington ex rel. Linhoif, 231 U. S. 568;

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

295 U. S.

O'Neill v. Learner, 239 U. S. 244, 249; Olson v. United
States, 292 U. S. 246, 259, note 3,; Los Angeles Gas &
Electric Corp. v. Railroad Comm'n, 289 U. S. 287, 304;
West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 294
U. S. 63, 79.
As the spur was found by the state tribunals, on
abundant evidence, to be no longer a public convenience,
and to have permanently ceased to produce enough
revenue for the system of which it was a part to pay
the cost of operation, and had ceased to have any value
for railway purposes, the reproduction cost basis of valuation must be discarded. This leaves two possible theories of value"
One eliminates the so-called nuisance value, or "market value" arising from the possibility of exacting a price
from the owners of abutting property for demolition. On
this basis the value of the spur is limited to the scrap
value of the structure, as the franchise, and so-called easements acquired from the abutting owners, expire with
the abandonment of the spur.
The other theory includes such value as can be ascribed
to the .easements in the hands of the company, through
possibility of sale to the abutting owners. This nuisance
theory has not been sanctioned by any court. In this
case it leads to the conclusion that the spur increased in
value to a fantastic sum by virtue of the fact that its
obsolescence for railway purposes placed the owners in a
position to sell out to the abutting owners.
Assuming that possibility of sale to abutters must be
considered, this record, containing all the proffered evidence on the point, does not warrant a finding that the
true value of the easements exceeded the award.
The facts are such that a possibility of sale to abutting
owners was wholly fanciful. The "market" was limited
to a group whose agreement on price and apportionment
among themselves was required and is shown to have been

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

273

Argument for Respondents.

impracticable. The property owners believed and insisted
that the company was not entitled to be paid for the easements. Forcing unification of the property owners, as
buyers, through the City's power to levy assessments,
may not be considered in ascertaining market value.
In a contest of endurance between the company, losing
money in operation of the spur, and property owners
suffering from it, the latter were in a better strategical
position. At least one may only speculate as to which
would first succumb. Only a speculative basis exists for
a guess as to what, if anything, the property owners
would have paid. On the whole record no one can say
that it would have been more than the award. McGovern v. New York, 229 U. S. 363, 372; New York v. Sdge,
239 U. S. 57; Appleby v. Buffalo, 221 U. S. 524; Olson v.
United States, 292 U. S. 246.
No arbitrary rule was applied to the prejudice of the
company. The Nev York courts did not hold as a matter
of law that adjudicated value of the easements at the
time of acquisition was the sole measure. The Appellate
Division concluded first that this adjudicated value was.
the least which could be accepted. This was to the
advantage of the company. It then examined the whole
record to ascertain if a larger value should be awarded,
and held that only a speculative basis for a larger value
was shown. The Court of Appeals merely' held on the
whole record that the amount awarded was fair. The
New York courts received and considered all evidence
proffered by the petitioners on every theory they saw fit
to urge.
On any theory of valuation open on this record, the
franchise had no value and the structure only a scrap
value. If the nuisance theory of possible sale to abutting owners be accepted, the award of that value presupposes a demolition f the structure. Rejecting the nuisance value, and 6onsidering the spur as valueless for
operation, the result is the same.

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court..

295 U. S.

Mr. Win. H. Page, with whom Mr. Richard M. Page
was on the brief, for Bowman Biltmore Hotels Cor et al.,
respondents.
Petitioners are not entitled to any compensation for
the rights to impair the abutting property owners' easements of light, air and access or for the franchise to construct, maintain and operate the spur because (1) there
was-no "taking" ofsaid rights and franchise in the constitutional sense; (2) said rights and franchise were worthless because the spur' was being operated at a los'; (3) the
award therefor is in contravention of the rule laid down
ii Muhlker v. New York & Harlem R. Co., 197 V. S. 544;
and (4) said rights and franchise were acquired for railway purposes only under the authority of the Rapid Transit Act of 1875 which in effect limited their duration to
such period of time as their exercise might be a matter
of public tonvenience and necessity.
Messrs. Frank C. Laughlin and Spotswood D. Bowers
submitted for Corn Exchange Bank, respondent.
The so-called easements were extinguished upon the
removal of the spur, and any rights the claimants had reverted to the property owners, who then held their easements of light, air and access in their full integrity.
There is no warrant, in fact or law, for any award
whatsoever to the claimants for these so-called easements.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The 42nd Street spur of the elevated railroad system
in the City of New York has been condemned for the
purpose of demolition in proceedings duly instituted by
officials of the city government. The fee owner of the
spur, a receiver, a lessee, and trustees under mortgages
are dissatisfied with the award of damages. The question
is whether property interests have been taken without

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Opinion of the Court.

compensation in violation of the restraints of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The length of the demolished structure was about nine
hundred feet. At the east it was connected with the
elevated station at 42nd Street and Third Avenue. At
the west it had a terminal on Park Avenue opposite the
Grand Central Station. For a number of years traffic
upon the spur had been dwindling, especially so since the
completion of the subways, receipts being less than the
cost of operation. Traffic became so light that the spur
ceased to contribute value to the business of the railroad,
either as an independent unit or as a feeder to the system.
With these developments a movement to take the structure from the highway acquired rapid headway. Travelers
on 42nd Street, afoot or in vehicles, were impatient of
obstructions that had ceased to be useful. Lot owners,
contiguous to the railway and nearby, looked forward with
eagerness to the removal of an unsightly edifice in the expectation of enhancing the value of their lots. The city
too had an interest in the growth of taxable values as
well as in the promotion of the safety of the streets. In
1919, the legislature of New York came to the relief of
city, lot owners and travelers through the adoption of a
statute. By Chapter 611 of the Laws of 1919, the Public
Service Commission was empowered to determine whether
the spur and its appurtenances were "necessary and convenient for the public service, or whether, even if necessary and convenient, such tracks, structure, station and
appurtenances" constituted "an impediment or obstruction to the public street." Upon the certificate of the
Commission as to the existence of either of these conditions, the city might condemn "the rights, easements
and franchises of the. said Manhattan Railway Company" through appropriate proceedings. See also L. 1923,
c. 635.

276

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.".

At the end of a full hearing the Public Service Commission found and certified that the spur was no longer a
public convenience and necessity, and also that it was an
impediment and obstruction to the public use of the
street. No appeal to the courts was taken by the company: Thereupon, the City of New York by its Board
of Estimate and Apportionment. resolved that condemnaThe resolution,
tion proceedings should be begun.
adopted November 23, 1923, called for the condemnation
of the structure of the spur and of all easements and
franchises appurtenant thereto, title to vest in the city on
December 7 of that year. The resolution was followed by
a suit under the applicable statute for the determination
of the damages to be paid to the owners of the property
condemned. The trial court made an award in the sum
of $975,438, with interest, stating, the component items
in an opinion. 126 Misc. (N. Y.) 879; 216 N. Y. S. 2.
Cross-appeals followed to the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court, the city and abutting lot owners insisting
that the award was too high, and the spur owner and its
allies insisting that the damages were too low and that
property had been taken without due process of law.
United States, Constitution, Fourteenth Amendment.
Three items were in controversy: (1) the value of the
franchise; (2) the value of the structure; and (I)- the
value of certain rights or privileges characterized as private easements. As to item (1), the ruling of the Appellate Division was that the franchise was without value,
and had become a source of loss instead of gain; as to
item (2), the ruling was that the structure was without
value beyond whai it would be worth as scrap when taken
down; and as to item (3), the ruling was that the private
easements must be paid for at not less than their value
as judicially determined at the time of their acquisition,
but that the evidence did not justify a finding that their
value was any greater. Matter of City of New York

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Opinion of the Court.

(Maihattan Railway Co.), 229 App. Div. 617; 243
N. Y. S. 665. The cause was remitted to the trial court,
which heard additional evidence and made a new decree.
As a result of that decree the value of the private easements was fixed at $539,117.41; the scrap value of the
structure was fixed at $235; the value of the franchise
nothing. 143 Misc. (N. Y.) 129; 257 N. Y. S. 37. There
wer cross-appeals to the Appellate Division, which affirmed without opinion (238 App. Div. 832; 262 N. Y. S.
973), and then to the Court of Appeals, where there was
an affirmance by a divided court. 265 N. Y. 170; 192
N. E. 188. This court granted a writ of certiorari at the
instance of the Receiver of the railway company and
those allied with him in interest. 293 U. S. 554.
A statute of New York in force at the taking of the
spur directs the court to "ascertain and estimate the compensation which ought justly to be made by the City of
New York to the respective owners of the real property
to be acquifed." Charter of New York City, § 1001; L.
1915, c. 606. Cf. L. 1923, c. 635. Such a system of condemnation is at least fair upon its face. "If there has
been any wrong done it is due not to the statute but to the
courts having made a mistake as to evidence, or at most
as to the measure of damages." McGovem v. New York
City, 229 U. S. 363,370. Not every such mistake amounts
to a denial of constitutional immunities, though the outcome is to give the owner less than he ought to have. In
condemnation proceedings as in lawsuits generally the
Fourteenth" Amendment is not a guaranty that a trial
shall be devoid of error. West Ohio Gas Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n (No. 1), 294 U. S. 63, 70. To bring
about a taking without due process of law by force of such
a judgment, the error must be gross and obvious, coming
close to the boundary of arbitrary action. The test has
been differently phrased by different judges and in different contexts. At times we find the statement that the

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

Constitution is not infringed unless there has been "absolute disregard" of the right of the owner to be paid for
what is taken. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Chicago, 166
U. S. 226, 246; Backus v. Fort Street Union Depot Co.,
169 U. S. 557, 565; Appleby v. Buffdlo, 221 U. S. 524, 532.
At other times we are told that due process is not lacking
unless "plain rights" have been ignored, with a reminder
that much will be overlooked when there is nothing of unfairness or partiality in the course of the proceedings.
McGovern v. New York City, supra, at p. 373. From the
very nature -of the problem these phrases and others like
them are approximate suggestions rather than scientific
definitions. In last resort the line of division is dependent
upon differences of degree too' subtle to be cataloued.
Hudson County, Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
355; Klein v. Board of Superi'isors, 282 U. S. 19, 23. Cf.
Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104. One cannot
hope fo mark its bearings in a sentence or a paragraph.
Enough for present purposes that when the hearing has
been full and candid, there must ordinarily be a showing
Df something more far-reaching than one of dubious mistake in the appraisal of the evidence. Due process is a
growth too sturdy to succumb to the infection of the
least ingredient of error. "It takes more than a possible
misconstruction by a court to make a case under the
Fourteenth Amendment." Seattle, R. & S. Ry. Co. v.
Linhoff, 231 U. S. 568, 570.
In the setting of this background we approach the consideration of the rulings that are here assigned as error.
1. First in importance is the appraisal of the private
easements.
The"franchise to maintain an elevated railway "with
an interest in the street in perpetuity" (People v.
O'Brien, 111 N. Y. 1, 38; 18 N. E. 692) dates from September 7, 1875. After the building of the road controversies developed between the company and abutting

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Opinion of the Court.

owners. Out of them grew what came to be known as
the elevated railroad lawsuits, "one of the most important and interesting chapters in the history of litigation " in New York. Powers v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 120
N. Y. 178, 183; 24 N. E. 295. The foundation stone was
laid by the Court of Appeals in Story v. New York Elevated R. Co., 90 N. Y. 122, decided in 1882. The doctrine
was there announced that appurtenant to lots abutting
on a highway are certain private easements-easements
of light and air and access-which may not be destroyed
or impaired through the construction under legislative
sanction of an elevated railroad without payment to the
lot owners of the damage* to their land and buildings.
Many later cases enforced the same doctrine and indeed
enlarged its scope, applying it to lots where the fee of
the highway was vested in the city. Lahr v. Metropolitan
Elevated Ry. Co., 104 N. Y. 268; 10 N. E. 528; Kane v.
New York Elevated R. Co., 125 N. Y. 164; 26 N. E. 278.
Cf. Muhlker V. N. Y. &cH. R. Co., 197 U. S. 544; Sauer
v. New York City, 206 U. S. 536. In submission to these
holdings the Manhattan Railway Company extinguished
the damage claims of lot owners along many miles of
track. It did this by purchase or condemnation or proceedings equivalent thereto, the amount to be paid being
determined sometimes by a court, sometimes by agreement. Generally the extinguishment took the form of
grants of the easements to the .extent that they were affected by the then existing structure, the abutting owners
being the grantors and the Manhattan the grantee. Irrespective of the form, the substance of the transaction
was that "the railroad merely exhausted the right of the
abutting owners to complain because the railroad -was
in the street and so trespassing on their property.'! Per
Pound, Ch. J., in the present case, 265 N. Y. at p. 180.
What was conveyed was the right to persist in a course
of conduct that otherwise would have been a wrong.

280

2OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S..

Even then the process of condemnation or its equivalent
did not so obliterate the easements as to leave abutters
helpless in the face. of new encroachments. If the user
was substantially aggravated, as, for example, by an
added tier of tracks, there was another right to be extinguished. Knoth v. Manhattan Ry. Co., 187 N. Y.
243; 79 N. E. 1015; American.Bank Note Co. v. New
York Elevated R. Co., 129 N. Y. 252, 266; 29 N. E. 302.
The company was under a continuing duty to rid its
presence in the highway of the character of a trespass
as against the title of abutters.
Whether these rights or interests, though easements
in the ownership of the abutters, retained the same quality
after release or conveyance to the railway, we do not now
determine. They are spoken of in many cases as if theit
quality in the new ownership continued what it was before.
See, e. g., People ex rel. ManhattanBy. Co. v. Barker, 165
N. Y. 305; 59 N. E. 137, 151; People ex-rel. ManhattanRy.
Co. v. Woodbury, 203 N. Y. 231; 96 N. E. 420. This may
have been merely for convenience with the thought that
the description was at least sufficiently accurate to serve
the case at hand. Elsewhere the same interests are
spoken of as "quasi-easements" (American Bank Note
Co. v. New York Elevated R. Co., supra, at p. 272) or by
some other and equivalent term. Matter of City of New
York (ManhattanR. Co.), 126 Misc. 879,901; 216 N. Y. S.
2; 229 App. Div. 617, 625; 243 N. Y. S." 665; Stevens v.
New York Elevated R. Co., 130 N. Y. 95, 101; 28 N. E.
667. After acquisition by the railway, they are not susceptible of separation from the ownership cf the franchise.
Kernochan v. New York Elevated R. Co., 128 N. Y. 559;
29 N, E. 65; Druckerv.ManhattanRy. Co., 213 N. Y. 543;
108 N. E. 74; Heardv. Brooklyn, 60 N. Y. 242.* They
are not easements in gross assignable to strangers gen* Many decisions are collected in 40 Yale L. J. 779, 1074, 1309.

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Opinion of the Court.

erally. 265 N. Y. at p. 181. They may be factors to be
considered in determining the value of the franchise while
the road is in operation, for they 're effective as a release
from liability for past or future damages. This is very
far from saying that they" ontribute elements of value
when operation has been proved to be impossible except at
a continuing loss. Still less does it connote a value equivalent to the estimated present cost of condemning them
anew.
We have said that there will be no attempt in this court
to classify the rights acquired by the company as easements or as something else. For present purposes we ac-.
cept the ruling of the state court that irrespective of their
precise nature they had a value to be paid for upon the
termination of the franchise and the removal of the structure by force of eminent domain. If all this be assumed,
the petitioners fall short by a long interval of making out
a defiance of constitutional restraints. Their argument, it
seems, is this: property that is to be condemned must be
paid for in accordance with the value at the time of the
taking; these easements when acquired about half a century ago had a value then judicially determined of about
half a million dollars; owing to changes in the neighborhood the same easements, if acquired in 1923, would have
cost $3,600,000; an award has been made for the first
amount only; the difference between the first amount and
the second is an increment of value condemned without
requital.
The argument misconceives the action of the courts
below. The courts have not held that an increment of
value in the easements or in anything else may be condemned without requital. What they have held is merely
this, that there is no basis in the evidence for assigning
any determinate value to the ownership of the easements
in excess of the value belonging to them when they were
acquired by the company. Even if there was error here

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

in the interpretation of the record, it was not so gross or
obvious as to justify a holding that the restraints of the
Constitution were forgotten or ignored. But in truth
there was no error, or none to the prejudice of the owners
of the property condemned. Much could be said ii support 6f the position that the value of the so-called easements was nothing more than nominal. If so, the petitioners have been overpaid by more than half a million
dollas. We do 'not go into that question now, for the
city and the abutters are not petitioners in this court, and
must acquiesce in the award as made. Problems open in
the state court and there considered in the opinions (see
especially the dissenting opinion in 265 N. Y. at p. 183)
are beyond our jurisdiction here. Enough for present
purposes that the award is not too low, though perhaps it
is too high. Excess is not an error of which the owner may
complain.
Too low it certainly is not. "The question is what has
the owner lost, not what has the taker gained." Boston
Chamber of Commerce v. Boston, 217 U. S. 189, 195;
United States v. Chandler-DunbarCo., 229 U. S. 53. If
we assume these easements to be property, what.were they
worth to the railway in 1923? The petitioners -do not
urge that it was practicable to find a buyer who would pay
for the easements in connection with the franchise and
with a view to continuing the operation of the road. The
spur had proved to be a failure, a mere impediment to
public travel. Substantial prices are not paid for the
privilege of conducting a business at a loss. The petitioners .do urge, however, that abutters would have been
willing to pay for an abandonment of the road, and that
such abandonment would have been equivalent to the
surrender of the easements or to a deed of reconveyance.
Voluntary abandonment was permissible (New York
Railroad Law, § 237; also L. 1917, c. 788) until the franchise with its appurtenances was taken over by the city.

ROBERTS v. NEW YORK CITY.
264

Opinion of the Court.

From this the conclusion is drawn that the easements are
worth what the abutters would have paid for them.
Implicit in such an argument are assumptions that would
be worthy of scrutiny if the need for scrutiny were here.
The inquiry would then be whether easements or quasieasements inseparable from a franchise must be paid for
as property at the peril of infringing the Fourteenth
Amendment when their value for sale presupposes the
abandonment of.the franchise to which they are appurtenant. To carry the Amendment to that point approaches,
though it may not touch, the acceptance of the nuisance
value which Hough, J., on one occasion excluded from the
reckoning with words of trenchant emphasis. Consolidated Gas Co. v. New York City, 157 Fed. 849, 874. For
the time being and provisionally we put aside these
doubts, resolving in favor of the company whatever problems they suggest Granting that the value of the easements is whatever abutters would have paid for a
surrender of the franchise, how much would this
have been?
A sale to abutters was impracticable unless all or nearly
all united. One owner could gain nothing from a reconveyance of the easements appurtenant to his lot without
a like reconveyance to others along the line of the invading structure. The spur would have to come down altogether or not at all. The notion is almost fantastic that
there would have been union among the owners upon a
price of $3,600,000 or any comparable figure. Even if the
value of their lots were to be enhanced to that extent,
they would be no better off as the outcome of the bargain
than they already were without it, and would be risking
a huge outlay. They would be doing this though they denied that the easements were the kind of property for
which they could be forced to pay a dollar if the case were
brought into a court. In such circumstances union among
the abutters was a shadowy aad distant chance. New

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

York City v. Sage, 239 U. S. 57, 61; Olson v. United States,
292 U. S. 246, 256. "What the owner is entitled to is the
value of the property taken, and that means what it fairly
may be believed that a lfurchaser in fair market conditions
would have given for it in fact-not what a tribunal at a.
later date may think a purchaser would have been wise to
give, nor a proportion of the advance due to its union with
other lots." New York City v. Sage, supra, at p. 61. Discordant voices among the group would surely have been
raised in protest if an attempt had been made by amicable
treaty to get rid of the spur at the value put upon it by
the railway. Perhaps the abutters would have paid something. But how much would it have been? The courts
below have found in the evidence no basis for the belief
that the price would have exceeded the value of the easements as judicially ascertained at the time of acquisition.
229 App. Div. at p. 629; 265 N. Y. at p. 181. We cannot
say that this was error. Still less can we say that some
other and higher figure was established with such persuasive power that the Constitution of the United Stateshas
been flouted in the refusal to accept it.
2. Objections are made by the petitioners to the valuations of the structure, the franchise, and the public easements in the highway.
The structure was appraised as junk, the city having
undertaken to bear the cost of removal. Such an appraisal might be too low were it not for the award for the
private easements. To realize the value of those easements, an abandonment of the spur was necessary. "The
railroads could not release their rights to the abutting
owners and continue to operate their railroads in the
street." 265 N. Y. at p. 181. The structure in the circumstances had no value except as scrap.
The franchise was without value for reasons already
stated, or so the triers of the facts might hold without

AERO TRANSIT CO. v. GEORGIA COMM'N.

285

Syllabus.

264

departing from the restraints of the Constitution of the
nation.
With the value of the franchise gone, the public easements in the street, as distinguished from the private ones,

had a worth that was merely nominal, at least for any
showing to the contrary in the pages of this record.

Other objections have been considered without inducing
a conviction that the petitioners have been th6 victims of

any arbitrary rulings.
The judgment is

Affirmed.

The CHiEF JUSTICE took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
AERO MAYFLOWER

TRANSIT CO. v.

GEORGIA

PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 586.

Argued April 4, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A state statute imposing upon private carriers operating motor
vehicles in the business of transporting persons or property for
hire over any public highway in the State an annual license fee
of $25 per vehicle for the maintenance of the highways, held not
unconstitutional in its application to a carrier operating such
vehicles in interstate commerce. P. 289.
2. Imposition of a uniform state license fee of so much for each
vehicle used by private carriers on the state roads does not create
an undue burden upon interstate commerce as applied to an
interstate carrier merely because that carrier has less occasion to
use those roads than local carriers have. One who receives a privilege without limit is not wronged by his own refusal to enjoy it as
freely, as he may. P. 289.
3. A Georgia statute (Ex. Ses., 1931, p. 99) imposing an annual
license tax on private carriers by motor vehicle of $25 per vehicle
using the state highways, the proceeds of which tax are applied
to the upkeep of state highways, does not violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment by exempting:

