STELOS CO. v. HOSIERY CORP.
229

Syllabus.

and execution. In creating federal land banks as government instrumentalities, but with many of the pilrposes
and activities of private corporations; in exempting them
alone from taxation, and at the same time subjecting
them, like joint stock land banks, to suit "as fully as
natural persons," Congress cannot be thought to have intended that either class of banks should be immune from
attachment, and their judgment creditors relegated to a
receivership, allowed as a matter of grace, as the sole
means of collecting their judgments.
In the present case it does not appear that the attachment would directly ifiterfere with any function performed
by petitioner as a federal instrumentality. We reserve the
question whether a different result would be required if
such an interference were shown.
Affirmed.

STELOS CO., v. HOSIERY MOTOR-MEND

CORP. T

AL.*

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 588. Argued April 4, 5, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. As a ground for sustaining the judgment in his favor, a respondent
in certiorari is entitled to reassert a defense made in; but not

accepted by, the court below, and for this purpose he need not

make a cross-application for the writ. P. 239.
2. Claim 23 of reissue patent No. 16,360, to Stephens, claiming a

method for repairing runs in knitted fabrics, such as stockings, by
stretching the fabric over a "suitable holder" and by use of a
repairing device or needle having a hobk and a pivoted latch, held
"laterally out. of alignment with the run," is invalid for want of
proper disclosure and for lack of invention. Pp. 241, 243.
72 F. (2d) 405, affirmed.
*Together

with No. 653, Hosiery Motor-Mend Corp. et al. v.

Stelos Co., Inc. Certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the

Second Circuit.

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 702, to review the affirmance of a
decree of the District Court, 60 F. (2d) 1009, dismissing
the bill in a suit of the Stelos Company for alleged infringement of its patent. Both sides sought and obtained
the writ.

Messrs. Henry Gilligan and -Vernon E. Hodges, with
whom Mr. J. PrestonSwecker was on the brief, for Stelos
Co., Inc.
Mr. Hugh M. Morris, with whom Messrs. Julian S.
Wooster, Donald Malcolm, and Noah A. Stancliffe were
on the brief, for Hosiery Motor-Mend Corp. et al.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This cause presents issues as. to validity and infringement of claim 23 of the Stephens reissue patent, No.
16,360, for "an improvement in needles and its method
of use." The Stelos Company, owner of 'the patent,
sued Hosiery Motor-Mend Corporation and others for
infringement. The District Court adjudged the claim
invalid by reason of failure to make proper disclosure of
the alleged invention, and anticipation; and also thought
that if the claim were sustained the defendants did not
, infringe, and dismissed the bill.' The Circuit Court of
Appeals held the prior art required so narrow a construction of the claim as to exclude the method charged as an
infringement and affirmed the decree.' We granted certiorari I to resolve a conflict with a decision of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columlkia.' In support of
160 F. (2d) 1009.
'72 F. (2d) 405.
' 294 U. S. 702.

'Finch Corp. v. Stelos Co., 60 App. D. C. 25; 46 F. (2d) 606.

STELOS CO. v. HOSIERY CORP.
237

Opinin of the Court.

the judgment the defendants might have urged the point
as to invalidity, decided against them in the Circuit Court
of Appeals, without applying for a cross-writ of certiorari. 5
Out of excess of caution, however, they prayed for the
writ. Since both writs would run to but one judgment,
and bring up the same record, we granted the prayer in
No. 653.6
To knit is to form a fabric by the interlacing of a single
yarn or thread in a series of connected loops. In knitted
articles, of which a silk stocking is an example, a break in
the thread anywhere in the-fabric will cause a number of
loops to pull out, leaving in their place parallel threads.
The consequent defect is called a ladder or a run. The
only possible method of repair consists in picking up the
thread at the end of the run and reknitting by reforming
the loops throughout the ladder, fastening the thread upon
the completion of the operation. It has long been known
that this could be accomplished by the use of a needle
having a hook at the end resembling an ordinary crochet
needle, but thd task involved difficulties and the result
was often unsatisfactory.
Stephens' patent is for an improved latch needle for
this work, and for a method of executing the repair.
Twenty-two claims for the needle are not in issue. Claim
23, which covers the method, is the basis of the suit.. The
method is stated in the patent to consist:
"in stretching the fabric over a suitable holder,
inserting a repairing device having a hook and pivoted
latA through a loop formed in the run or raveling,
continuing this movement on through the fabric while
holding the device laterally out of alignment with the run
or raveling until the loop has slid back over the end of
the latch and beneath the latter,
'Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531, 535.
0294 U. S. 702.

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

then reversing the movement of the device through
the loop,
catching the next forward thread in the hook while the
loop is being pulled over the latch causing the latch to
close over the thread and the loop to be cast off over
the end of the device, the thread caught in the hook thereupon forming a new loop, taking the place of the firstdescribed loop,
then reinserting the device into the fabric as before, and
repeating the operation until the run or raveling has been
repaired,
and finally fastening the thread."
In the commercial method practiced by the owner of
the patent and its licensees, the fabric is stretched over
the top of a china or porcelain egg-cup held in the left
hand. The degree of stretching can in this way be adjusted for the first step in the process and increased or
relaxed as the work progresses. The needle is held in
the right hand at an angle to the plane of the fabric and
worked back and forth through the material. Whether
the needle is also inclined laterally out of the line of
the run is disputed. The patentee says this is unnecessary and is not in fact practiced. The defendants disagree, and contend that a pivoted latch needle will not
otherwise perform its function. The alleged infringers
employ a metal holder shaped like an egg-cup and a sliding latch needle, which they punch through the material
and draw back at approximately a right angle to the
fabric.
Stephens, while in Mexico in 1921 or 1922, noticed a
Mrs. DeMarr repairing runs by stretching stockings over
her finger and reforming the loops with a latch needle.
On her behalf he forwarded to a patent attorney a description and specification in his own handwriting and an application or patent was filed by Mrs.. DeMarr. A half
interest was assigned to Stephens. Certain prior patents

STELOS CO. v. HOSIERY CORP.
237

Opinion of the Court.

were cited against the claims and the application was
abandoned. Shortly thereafter Stephens filed in his own
name an application for patent of an improved pivoted
latch needle and for an improved method of repairing
runs. The method claim called for the use of a pivoted
latch needle having all the features of that described in
the application, and was accordingly rejected, inter alia
because it was not a method claim since it required
Stephens' specific construction of the needle. The applicant redrafted the claim to call merely for a pivoted latch
needle and added the element that the needle should be
held laterally out of alignment with the run. We think
the method claim is bad -for want of proper disclosure
and as lacking invention.
1. The first step is described as "stretching the fabric
over a suitable holder." It is now said that an egg-cup or
something of like construction is the only suitable holder,
because no other device affords a rest for the operator's
hand and permits continuous stretching in varying degree
during the repair operation. The patent drawings show
no holder of any sort. The specifications merely say:
"In other methods the fabric is stretched over the finger
tip, making it difficult to insert the hook beneath the
thread. This objection is obviated in the present invention by stretching the fabric over a porcelain dish, allowing sufficient depth for the free use of the needle." Obviously the phrase *"aporcelain dish" is not descriptive of
an egg-cup. There is nowhere any reference to the controrof the degree of stretching which is now said to be
essential and to be afforded only 'by such a holder. The
patentee testified on the trial that he tried and discarded
many. types of holder until he hit upon this one. If so,
why did he not describe or claim it? He did so in an
application for patent filed much later. He is upon the
horns of a dilemma; he either discovered this form of
holder and its virtues prior to the application for this

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the'Court.

295 U. S.

patent or he found it later. If the first supposition be
correct his application violated R. S. 4888;" if the second,
his patent does not cover the egg-cup holder.
Nowhere does the claim or the specification disclose the
element that the fabric must not be tautly stretched
over the holder, or that it must be so held that the tension can be varied. It is said.that the use of the present
participle "stretching" rather than the past participle
"stretched" makes the matter clear; but scrutiny of both
claim and specification discloses no teaching as to the
stretching of the fabric, or any regulation of the tension,
or that it may not be tightly stretched over the holder
and secured in that condition prior to commencing the
repair. The specification of a "suitable" holder certainly
covers none of these alleged essentials. These omissions
emphasize the failure to make the fair disclosure demanded by R. S. 4888.
The patentee says that in the old finger method the
needle necessarily was held nearly in the plane of the
fabric, whereas in his method it is approximately at a
right angle thereto, and operated by a punching motion.
The description of the operation in the patent is almost
identical with that of Mrs. DeMarr's abandoned application, drawn in Stephens' own hand, which was for the
finger as contrasted with the punch method; and, so far
as the angle at which the needle is to be held, is very
similar to Pogson's disclosure in 1921, which Stephens
says does not describe the punch method. When we come
to the claim, we find the phrase "while holding the device
laterally out of alignment with the run." This, we are
told, is novel, and means that the needle is not to be
used in or nearly parallel with the plane of the fabric,
"U. S. C. Tit. 35, § 33. Notice that defendants would defend on
this ground was given in accordance with I. S. 4920; U. S. C. Tit. 35,

§ 69.

IVANHOE BLDG. ASSN. v. ORR.
237

Syllabus.

but at an angle thereto. "Laterally out of alignment
to the run" is not equivalent to "at an angle to the
plane of the fabric." That the applicant did not intend
it to be so understood is shown by his repeated use of the
word laterally, in the specifications, as the equivalent of
off to one side; and by this sentence: "The clearance
afforded . . . makes it possible to hold the needle down
closer to the fabric. . . ." There is no disclosure of any

up and down punch system, such as the defendants use.
2. Pivoted latch needles are old in the art. Holders
which have an opening to give room for the insertion of
a needle, such as that of an egg-cup, are old for use in,
darning. The method of reforming loops in knitted goods
with pivoted latch needles was known prior to the application for this patent. The combination of the use of
the egg-cup type holder and the pivoted latch needle
did not entitle Stephens to a patent; and the addition of
the element that the needle should be held at an angle
to the plane 'of the fabric, if that is in -fact what the
claim means, is insufficient to raise the method to the
dignity of invention.
Decree modified
and, as modified,
affirmed.
IVANHOE BUILDING & LOAN ASSN. v. ORR,
TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 611.

Argued April 5, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A creditor of a bankrupt, claiming on a bond secured by a mortgage on real estate not owned by the bankrupt and upon which the
creditor has foreclosed, is not a "secured creditor" of the bankrupt
within the meaning of §§ 1 (23) and 57 (e) of the Bankruptcy

