SPIELMAN MOTOR CO. v. DODGE.
78

89

Syllabus.

the other defendants, we think may properly be characterized as weak--depending, as it did, upon the testimony of Katz, an accomplice with a long criminal record.
In these circumstances prejudice to the cause of the
accused is so highly probable that we are not justified in
assuming its non-existence. If the case.'against Berger
had been strong, or, as some courts have said, the evidence of his guilt "overwhelming," a different conclusion
might be reached. Compare Fitter y. United States, 258
Fed. 567, 573; Johnson. v. United States, 215 Fed. 679i
685; People v. Malkin, 250 N. Y. 185, 201-202; 164 N. E.
900; Iowa v. Roscum, 119 Iowa 330, 333; 93 N. W. 295.
Moreover, we have not here a case where the misconduct
of the prosecuting attorney was slight or confined to a
single instance, but one where such misconduct was pronounced and persistent, with a probable cumulative effect
upon the jury which cannot be disregarded as inconsequential. A new trial must be awarded. Compare
N. Y. Central R. Co. v. Johnson, 279 U. S. 310, 316-318.
The views we have expressed find support in many decisions, among which the following are good examples:
People v. Malkin, supra; People v. Esposito, 224 N. Y.
370, 375-377; 121 N. E. 344; Johnson v. United States,
supra; Cook v. Commonwealth, 86 Ky. 663, 665-667; 7
S. W. 155; Gale v. People, 26 Mich. 157; People v. Wells,
100 Cal. 459; 34 Pac. 1078. The case last cited is
especially apposite.
Judgment reversed.
SPIELMAN MOTOR SALES CO., INC. v. DODGE,
DISTRICT ATTORNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 567. Argued March 11, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. District attorneys in New York, though classed by statute as local
officemrs, are nart of the iudicial system of the State, and, in 2nforc-

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

295 U. S.

ing state laws of general application by criminal prosecution, perform
a state function within their respective counties and are officers
of the State within the meaning of § 266, Jud. Code. P. 92.
2. In the absence of a clear showing of necessity, a federal court of
equity will not restrain the institution of a criminal prosecution in
a state court upon the ground that the statute defining the offense
violates the Federal Constitution, but will leave the party to set up
the federal question in the state court and to his right of review m
this Court. P. 95.
3. Allegations that enforcement of a state regulation of one's business
will cause irreparable damage and deprivation of "rights, liberties,
properties, and immunities" are in themselves conclusions of law,
which will not sustain the jurisdiction of equity to enjoin a criminal
prosecution for violation of the regulatiog. P. 96.
The bill, to restrain prosecution under a state statute making it
a misdemeanor to violate a "Code of Fair Competition in the
Motor Vehicle Retailing Trade," alleged that the plaintiff had a
large business in buying and selling such vehicles, but did not show
that the single prosecution in contemplation would work serious
interference with the business. Held insufficient.
4. Decree dismissing a bill on the merits, affirmed on the ground that
the allegations failed to state a case within the equity jurisdiction
of the District Court. P. 97.
8 F. Supp. 437, affirmed.

APPEAL from. a decree of the District Court of three
judges dismissing the bill in a suit to enjoin a criminal
prosecution under a state law.
Mr. Isadore Paul argued the cause and Mr. S. Frederick

Placer filed a brief for appellant.
Mr. Karl D. Loos, with whom Messrs. David Blitzer,
Harold H. Straus, Stanley Osserman, Eugene Roth, and
Burton A. Zorn were on the brief, for appellee.
Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General of New York,

with whom Mr. John J. Bennett, Jr., Attorney General,
and Messrs. Eugene F. Roth and Burton A. Zorn were on
the brief, for the State of New York.

SPIELMAN MOTOR CO. v. DODGE.
89

91

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Appellanu, a retail dealer in automobiles in the City of
New York, brought this suit to restrain the District
Attorney of New York County from instituting a crir-inal
probecutiuli for alleged violation of the "Code of Fair
Competitio,. for the Motor Vehicle Retailing Trade."
Appellant ailuged that he was threatened with prosecution under Chapter 781 of the Laws of 1933 of the -State
of New York, which made it a misdemeanor to violate
any provision of a code of fair competition as approved
by the President of the United States under Title I of
the National Iidustrial Recovery Act. 48 Stat. 195. It
appears that the charge of violation of the code related to
the provisioiis which limited the amount to be allowed
for an old car "traded in" as part payment for a new car
and required the mnaintenance of factory list prices, plus
certain, charges, with a prohibition against discounts, gratuities, etc. for the purpose of inducing purchases. The
state statute was challenged as repugnant to the Constitution of the State, by reas6n of an improper delegation
of legislative power, and also as effecting 'a deprivation
of liberty and property without due process of law in contravention of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.
Appellant's application for an interlocutory injunction
was heard in the District Court by three judges. Jud.
Codq, § 266, 28 U. S. C. 380. There was also a motion
by the defendant to dismiss the bill of complaint upon
the grounds, among others, that it failed to allege facts
constituting an equitable cause of action, and that the
District Court was without jurisdiction. Pursuant to notice, the Attorney General of the State appeared in support of the state act. Affidavits were submitted on both
sides and, on hearing, the District Court sustained the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

validity of the statute and, on that ground, denied the
motion for injunction and granted the motion to dismiss
the bill. An order to that effect was entered and the case
comes here on appeal.
-Upon the argument at this bar, the questions were
raised (1) whether the District Attorney was an officer
of the State within the meaning of § 266 of the Judicial
Code, and (2). whether the complaint stated a cause of
action within the equitable jurisdiction of the District
Court. The case was continued to permit the parties to
file briefs upon these questions, and the briefs are now in.
First. If the District Attorney of the County of New
York, is to be deemed a local officer, performing a local
function in a matter of interest only to the particular
county, § 266 of the Judicial Code has no application and
we are without jurisdiction of this direct appeal from the
District Court. Ex parte Collins, 277 U. S. 565, 568; Ex
parte Public National Bank, 278 U. S. 101, 104; School
DistrictNo. 7 v. Hunnicut, 283 U. S. 810. See, also, Oklahoma Gas Co. v. Packing Co., 292 U. S. 386, 390.
The office of district attorney in the State of New York
was created in 1801. In each of the districts as then established, which included several counties, he was charged
with duties which previously had devolved upon an assistant attorney general. In 1815 the County of New
York was made a separate district, and in 1818 provision
was made for the appointment of a district attorney in
each county. The power of appointment was vested in
the Governor and the Council of Appointment until the
constitution of 1821, *when that power was given to the
county courts. The constitution of 1846 provided that
district attorneys should be chosen by the electors of the
respective counties.
Despite this provision for local elections, the district
attorney in each county has been regarded as a state officer performing a state function and taking the place, in

SPIELMAN MOTOR CO. v. DODGE.
89

Opinion of the Court.

respect to his duties within the district or county, of the
attorney general, upon whom at the outset these duties
had been laid. Lincoln's Constitutional History of New
York, vol. 2, pp. 529, 530; vol. 4, pp. 722, 723. Under the
state statutes prior to 1892, it appears that district attorneys were classified as judicial officers. N. Y., Rev. Stat.,
Chap. V, Title I. In Fellows v. Mayor (1876), 8 Hun
484, 485, dealing with the status of an assistant district attorney, the court said: "It is conceded that the district
attorney is a state officer. It could not well be questioned." And in People ex rel. Lyon v. Nicoll (1891), 32
N. Y. S. 279, 280, the court referred to the office of the
district attorney as "a state office, classified by the Revised Statutes as a judicial office."
In the Public Officers Law of 1892 (now Chapter 47 of
the Consolidated Laws of New York, Article I, § 2) a different classification was made and public officials were
defined as either ".state officers" or "local officers," the
latter embracing officers chosen "by the electors of a
portion only of the State." District attorneys fall within
this description of local officers. Notwithstanding the
change in classification, they are still to be deemed a part
of the judicial sy§tem of the State, each performing within his county'a distinctively state function. Lincoln's
Constitutional History of New York, loc. cit. See Opinions, Attorney General of New York, 1924, p. 120.
In this view we cannot regard the local description, or
the method of selecting the officer, as decisive with respect
to tie application of § 266 of the Judicial Code. That
section relates to suits in which an interlocutory injunction is sought to restrain, on constitutional grounds, the
enforcement "of any statute of a State by restraining the
action of any officer of such State in the enforcement or
execution of such statute, or in the enforcement or execution of an order made by an administrative board or
commission acting under and pursuant to the statutes

94

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

of such State." To determine the application of this pr!vision, we must have regard both to the nature of the
legislative action which is assailed and to the function ol
the officer who is sought to -be restrained. We have said
that the reference is not to every legislative action, regarclless of its nature and scope, but to a statute "of general
application" or an order of a state board or commission.
Thus, the section does not apply to suits to restrain the
enforcement of municipal ordinances or the orders of a
city board. Ex'parte Collins, supra. And, although the
constitutionality of a statute is challenged, the provision
is inapplicable where the defendants are local officers and
the suit "involves matters of interest only to the particular municipality or district." Id. Accordingly, a suit
against local officials to enjoin the collection of taxes assessed against shares in a national banking association,
in pursuance of a state law but "by, and for the sole use
of, the city," was found not to be within the section. Ex
parte PublicNational Bank, supra. We pointed out that
the suit must not only seek to have a state statute declared unconstitutional, or that in effect, but to restrain
the action "of an officer of the state." But the Court
was careful to reserve the question whether so-called local officers might not in fact'represent the State or exercise "state functions in the matters involved," so as to
bring the suit to restrain their adtion within the provision
for three judges and direct appeal. Id., p. 105.
Where a statute embodies a polidy of statewide concern, an officer, although chosen in a political subdivision
and acting within that limited territory, may be charged
with the duty of enforcing the statute in the interest
of the State and not simply in the interest of the locality
where he serves. This is especially true in the case of a
prosecuting officer who acts for the entire State, as a
part of its machinery of enforcement, in proceedings
against violators of the state statute. The function bf

SPIELMAN MOTOR CO. v. DODGE.
69.

Opinion of the Court.

such an officer, in enforcing a statute of general application, is of controlling importance in giving effect to the
intent of the Congress.
In the instant case it is manifest that the statute under
attack attempted to establish a statewide policy, and not
one merely in the interest of the particular county. The
defendant is charged with the, duty of enforcing the statute by prosecuting those who disobey it, and in performing that duty he acts not merely in the local interest
but in the name of the people of the State in compelling
observance of its laws. In that enforcement, he is acting
in a true sense as an officer of the State. Appellant
sought to restrain his action in that aspect and hence we
think that the case fell within § 266 of the Judicial Code
and was properly heard by three judges.
Second. We pass to the question whether the bill of
complaint stated a cause of action within the equitable
jurisdiction of the District Court.
The general rule is that equity will not interfere to
prevent the enforcement of a criminal statute even though
unconstitutional. Hygrade Provision Co. v. Sherman, 266
U. S. 497, 500. See, also, In re Sawyer, 124 U. S. 200,
209-211; Davis & Farnum Manufacturing Co. v. Los
Angeles, 189 U. S. 207, 217. To justify such interference
there must be exceptional circum-, :nF
e nd a L "r .'howing that an injunction is necessary in urder to afford adequate protection of constitutional rights. See Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214; Packard v. Banton, 264
U. S. 140, 143; Tyson v. Banton, 273"U. S. 418, 428;
Cline v. Frink Dairy Co., 274 U. S. 445, 452; Ex parte
Young, 209 U. S. 123, 161-162. We have said that it
must appear that "the danger of irreparable loss is both
great and immediate"; otherwise, the accused should
first set up his defense in the state court, even though the
validity of a statute is challenged. There is ample oppor-

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

tunity for ultimate review by this Court of federal questions. Fennerv. Boykin, 271 U. S. 240, 243, 244.
Appellant's bill of complaint failed to meet this test.
Appellant alleged that the District Attorney had applied
to a magistrate of the city of New York for the issue of a
summons directing the appearance of the appellant, to the
end that an investigation should be made of a complaint
against him for violation of the provisions of the "Motor
Vehicle Retailing Code" and that an information charging violation should be drawn. He alleged that the District Attorney intended, unless restrained, to institute
criminal proceedings. The state statute made any violation of the provisions of the code a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 for each offense. The
bill contained general allegations of irreparable daniage
and deprivation of "rights, liberties, properties, and immunities" without due process of law, if the statute were
enforced. But the bill failed to state facts sufficient to
warrant such conclusions, which alone were not enough.
The bill alleged that appellant had a large business in
buying and selling motor vehicles, but the statute did not
prohibit the continuance of that business and the bill gave
no facts to show that the particular requirements of the
code, which were in question, would create such a serious
interference as to require equitable relief. Aside from the
statement of general and unsupported conclusions, the
case presented by the bill was the ordinary one of a criminal prosecution which would afford appropriate opportunity for 'the assertion of appellant's rights. So far as
the bill disclosed, nothing more than a single prosecution
was in contemplation, a point which the District Attorney
emphasized by his disclaimer, on the hearing below, of
any intention to institute any further prosecution against
appellant until his rights, constitutional or otherwise, had
been adjudicated in the pending criminal proceeding.

MOTLOW v. STATE EX REL. KOELN.
89

Counsel for Parties.

The bill should have been dismissed upon the ground
that it failed to state a case within the equitable jurisdiction of the District Court. The decree is modified accordingly, and, as modified, the decree is affirmed.
Decree modified, and, as modified, affirmed.

MOTLOW v. STATE

EX REL.

KOELN.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

Nos. 659 and 660.

Argued April 10, 1935.--Decided April 29, 1935.

1. The rule that a forfeiture of real property at the suit of the
United States for an offense against the internal revenue laws
relates back to the date of the offense, applies only where there
is an effective judgment of condemnation. Henderson.'s Distilled
Spirits, 14 Wall. 44; United States v. Stowell, 133 U. S. 1. P. 99.
2. Where the judgment provided forfeiture but contained alternative provisions allowing the landowner to retain the propdrty
" free of all claims" (meaning all claims of the United States)
upon giving an appeal bond in a specified amount, which was in
fact done, title to the property did not become vested in the United
States and the property thereafter remained subject to state taxes
imposed upon it between the date of the offense and the date of
the judgment. P. 99.
3. A state court is not without jurisdiction to enforce the lien of -a
state tax on real property in a suit begun while a proceeding on
the part of the United States to forfeit title to the same property
was pending in a federal court, where no step was taken in the
state court beyond the filing of the petition until the property
had~been released by the federal court. P. 100.
336 Mo. 40, 50; 76 S. W. (2d) 417, 421, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

294 U. S. 703, to review the affirmance of

judgments for taxes on real property recovered on behalf
of the State.
Mr. Clem F. Storckman argued the cause and Mr. Patrick H. Cullen filed a brief for petitioner.

