UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
455

463

Syllabus.

dle of Lake Michigan. The decree will appropriately define the tr'acts called "Grassy Island" and "Sugar
Island" and declare them to belong to Michigan.
The case is referred to the special master, and he is directed to prepare and submit to the court a form of decree which will give effect to this decision. Inasmuch as
the preparation of the decree may involve the ascertainment of physical facts and the formulation of technical
descriptions, the master is authorized-to hear counsel, take
evidence and procure such assistance, if any, as.may be
necessary to enable him conveniently and promptly to
discharge the duties here imposed upon him. He may
call upon counsel to propose forms of decree. He is directed to give them opportunity to submit objections to
the form prepaI'ed by him and to include the objections,
if any, in his report.
It is so ordered.
UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA ET AL.
ON MOTIONS TO DISMISS THE BILL OF COMPLAINT.
No. 17, original. Argued May 2, 1935.-Decided. May 20, 1935.
1. The original jurisdiction of this Court over suii. brought by the
United States against a State is only of -those cases 'which are
within the judicial power of the United States as defined by
Art. III, § 2, of the Constitution. P. 470.
2. The original jurisdiction of this Court doF not include suits by
the United States against persons or corporations alone. Id:
3. To sustain jurisdiction over a suit brought in this Court by the
United States against a-State, the bill must present a "case" or
"controversy "'to which the State is a party ind which is within
the judicial power cf the United States. Id.
4 In a suit by the Urited States against a State and private corporations, to enjoin the construction by the latter nf a dam forming
part of a hydro-electric project, the bill alleged .the stream in
question to be a navigable water of "the United States, and that
the dam would be an unlawful obstruction, since it had not been

464'

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U.S.

authorized under the Act of March 3, 1899, nor had any license
for the project hbuegranted by 'the Federal Pv'er Commission
under the Federal WAter Power Act. As groun for. joining the.
State, it was alleged that the State had licensed the project and,
through its officials, was denying the navigability of the stream and
claiming that the power to permit and control its use for the
projected purposes resided in the State and not in the United
States, and claiming' that in so far as the Federal Water Power
Act purports to confei upon the Federal Power Commission
authority in the premises, the Act is an invasion of the sovereign
rights of the State and a'violation of thb Federal Constitution.
The bill did not assert any title of the United States in the bed of
the stream, which might afford a basis for a.suit-to remove a cloud
on title; nor allege any interference by the State, actual or threatened, with any other property of the United States, or with tht
navigable capacity of the waters in question or with the exercise
of tb*- power claimed by the' United States or in behalf of the
FedJeal Power Commission; nor "any actual or threatened participation by the State in the construction of the dam, other than
the granting.of a permit, nor that i had issued any permit incom"patible with the Federal Water Power Act, or intended to grant
licenses in the future. Held that, against the State, the bill presented no question justiciable by a federal court. United States v.
Utah, 283-U. S.64, distinguished. Pp. 471, 474.
5. It does not appear in this cage that the State has done'more than
issue such a license as the Federal Water Power Act makes prerequisite to a license from the Federal Power Commission. P. 473.
6. The Declaratory Judgment Act of June 14, 1934, e.512, 48 Stat.
955, is applicable only "in cases of actual controversy." It does
not purport to alter the character of the controversies. which are
the subject of the judicial powei under the Constitution. P. 475.
-Bill dismissed.

On motions to dismiss a bill brought in this Court by
the United States against the State of West Virginia and
three private corporations, to enjoin the construction of
a'dam, part of a hydro-electric plant, in a river alleged to
be navigable; -and for a declaration of the rights of the
United'States to control.the use of the stream, etc.

UNITED STATES v. .WEST VIRGINIA.
463

465

Argument for the United States.

Mr. 'Homer A. Holt, Attorney General of West Virginia, for the State of -West Virginia, defendant, 'in sup-.
port of its motion to dismiss.
Messrs. Edward W.. Knight and. Robert S. Spilman,.
with' whom Mr. William L. Lee'was on the brief, for Elec"tro Metallurgical Co.. et al.,. defendants, in ,support of
their motion to dismiss.
Mr. Huston. Thompson, with whom Solicitor General
Reed and Assistant Attrney Gehterpl Blair were on the
lrief, for the United States, in opposition to the motions
to dismiss.
There is a justiciable controversy between plaintiff and
the defendant State of West Virginia, aid between plaintiff and the corporate defendants" The controversy includes the question of whether the New ahd the Kahawha
Rivers are navigable veaters of the United States and
whether the State of West Virginia has the exclusive right
to the control of these rivers for the purpose of producing hydro-electric power therefrom or licensing others to
do so and. excluding the United States from licensing
others to create hydro-electric power oif these streams.
A justiciable controversy between. plaintiff .and the corporate defendants is conceded.
-The State is ai indi.spensable party.. All the rights of
the corporate defendants flow from pernits issued by the
State, The rights of integrated
the State and
corporat6-defendin any way in
are not
but the
"antsdovetail and are
conflict. A dcree supporting the prayer of the.petition
with.respect to the State alone would strike down many.
of the defenses of the corporate defendants but would n6t
compel them or any one of them to take out a license
from the Federal Power Commission without another
court proceeding. They are, therefore, necessary parties,

466

OCTOBER TERM, J 934
,Argument for the United States.

295 U.S.

not in conflict with the State or each other, but adverse
to plaintiff. Thus, there is ho misjoinder of parties.
The origihal jurisdiction of the Supreme Court -does-not
exclude the cofporate defendants under tbe exceptions in,
the Judiciary Act of 1789. No limitation has bpen put
upon the type of parties defendant if the United States
should bring a'suit under the original jurisdiction of this
Court.
This Court has entertained original jurisdiction" in contr6versies between a State and the Federal Government
where private parties were joined., It has taken jurisdiction in controversies between States where the United
States intervened or was made a party and there were
private parties.
In original proceedings brought by a State against a
State in the Supreme Court other defendants havde been
joined. The fact that this Court has assumed original
jurisdiction in some cases between States where the Federal Government has~intervened and the rights of private
interests have been determined, without their being made
parties, does not exclude the corporate defendants in,
this
case.
The Court is hot called upon to render a declaratory
judgment. Plaintiff maintains that there is a justiciable
question presented by the bill, and therefore the question of a declaratory judgment need not be considered.
The language of the bill is broad enough, however, to include a declaratory judgment and, there being a controversy presented, the Court could, if it were necessary.
grant a decree under the Federal Declaratory Judgments
Act (Act of June 14, 1934, c. 512, 48 Stat 955: Jud. Code,
§'274-.
This Act is for the purpose of regulating procedure, and not of limiting the exercise of original
jurisdiction.

UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.., 467
463

Opinion of tjie Court.

Sectiofi 26 of the Federal Water Power Act, gratting
jurisdiction in the District Court in equity tb pass upon
violations of that Act, does not deprive the Su-preme
Court of original jurisdiction in this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an original suit in equity, brought ty the United
States. in which relief by injunction-is sought against the
defendants, the State of West Virginia, Union Carbide
and Carbon Corporation, a New York corporation, and, its
wholly owned subsidiaries, Electro Metallurgical: Company and New-Kanawha Power Company, West Virginia
corporations. The questions now presented are raised by
separate motions, one by the State of West Virginia, the
other by the corporate defendants, to dismiss the bill of
complaint on the grounds that it does not- state any
justiciable controversy between the United States and the
State of West Virginia, and that it appearstpon the face
of thei bill of complaint that this Court has no original
jurisdiction of the suit against the defendants or any -of
them.
The bill of complaint, filed January 14, 1935, containsallegations which, $o far as now relevant, may be detailed
as follows. The New River flows northwesterly. across
the State of West Virginia and near the center of the
State joins the Gauley River to form the Kanawtia River,
which flows thence to the state boundary and into the
Ohio River. The New and Kanawha Rivers are one continuous in erstate stream, which throughout its course
constitutes navigable waters of the United States. There
are many locations for dam sites on the rivers; four dams
have been constructed on the New River at points in
Virginia and West Virginia, and a fifth at Hawks Nest,
West Virginia, upon which the present litigation centers,

'468

OCTOBER TERM, 1934
Opinio. of the Court. -

295 U. S.

is- now approaching- completion. The United States has
constructed ten dams on the Kanawha. River. for the purpose bf improving-navigation and is now engaged in construction work on two additional dams on the Kanawha
River immediately below the Hawks Nest project, and
has iii contemplation the construction of a large reservoir
at Bluestone, West Virginia, on the New River above the
Hawks Nest project, -for purposes of flood. control, production of power and in -aid of navigation. It is alleged
that the New and Kanawha Rivers throughout Wet Virginia constitute a continuous stream which was- in its
natural condition and still is susceptible of navigation,
and is a highway capable of being improved and used for
purposes -of interstate and foreign commerce* that any
obstructions to its navigabiity will be remoVed or overcome by improvements initiated by the United States and
now in operation or in the -course of construction; that
the Hawks Nest project will seriously obstruct navigation in the New and Kanawha Rivers, by producing fluctuations in the flow of New River; and that, upon the
filing by New-Kanawha Power Company of a declaration
of intention t6 construct the dam, pursuant to § 23 of
the Federal Water Power Act, c., 285, 41 Stat. 1063, 1075,
16 U. S. C. 791, 817, the-Federal Power Commission determined that the proposed Hawks Nest dam would affect
the interests of interstate commerce and -that under the
Act the dam' could not lawfully be built without a license
from the Commission.
It is further alleged-that the defendant, New-Kanawha
Power Company, has .obtained from the Public Service
Commission of West Virginia a license'or permit to construct the dam at Hawks Nest for power purposes. This
permi- was later transferred to the defendant, Electro
Metallurgical Company; and the corporate defendants;
acting under the state license, are now engaged in the
construction of the dam. It is alleged that its'construc-

UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
463

469

Opinion of the Court.

tion is in violation of the Act of Congress of March 3, 1899,
c.425, § 9,30 Stat. 1121, 1151; 33 U.S. C. 401, and the
Federal Water Power Act, in that the plab for the*project have not received the consent of.Congress or the approval of the Chief of Engineers of the United.-States
Army ajad the Secretary of War and the defendants hav'
received no license for the project from the Federal Power
Commission.
The allegations .with ,respect to te-Sfate of West Virginia are that the State challenges and denies the claim of
the United States that the New River is a navigable
stream; that the Stateasserts a right superior to that of the
United 8tates to license the use of the New and Kanawha
Rivers for the production and-sale of hydro-electric power,
and denies the right of the Federal Power Commission
to require a license, for the construction and operation of
the Hawks Nest project by the corporate defendants, and
that the State asserts that, insofar as-the Federal Water
Power Act purports. to confer. upon the Federal-Power
Commission authority to license the project or to control
the use of 'the river by the corporate defendants, the Act
is an invasion of the sovereign rights of the State and a
violation of the Constitution of the United States. The
bill further elaborates, *in great detail and particularity,
but does not enlarge, these basic allegations.
I It prays an injunction restraining the corporat& defendants from constructing or operating the Hawks Nest prbject without a license from the Federal Power Commission.
It also asks an adjudication that the New River is navigable waters of the United States and that the. United
States has the -right to construct and operate; and to
license others to construct and operate, dams and connected hydro-electric plants on the New and Kanawha
Rivers. We,aibe asked to declare that any right of the
State of West Virginia to license the- construction and
operation -of dams upon the rivers, or to sell, or to license

-

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

others to sell power generated at such dams, is subject to
the rights of the United States, and to enjoin the State
from asserting any right, title or interest in any dam, or
hydro-electric plant in connection with it, or in the production and sale of hydro-electric power on the New and
Kahawha Rivers, superior or adverse to that of the United
States, and from in any manner disturbing or interfering
with the possession, use and enjoyment of such right by
the United States.
It can no longer be doubted that the original jurisdiction given to this Court by § 2, Art. III of the Constitution, in cases "in which a State shall be a party," includes
cases brought by the United States against a State.
United States v. Texas, 143 U. S. 621; United States v.
Michigan, 190 U. S. 379, 396; Oklahoma v. Texas, 252
U. S. 372; 258 U. S. 5747 581; United States v. Minnesota, 270 U. S. 181, 195; United States y. Utah, 283 U. S.
64; compare Floridav. Georgia,17 How 178, 494; United
States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211. But the original
jurisdiction thus conferred is only of those cases within
the judicial power of the United States which, under the
first clause of § 2, Art. III of the Constitution, extends
"to all cases, in law and equity, arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States, and . . . to controversies to which the United 'States shall be a
party . . ." Massachusett,- v Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,
480-485; see Wisconsinv,. --r an.Insurance Co., 127 U. S.
n does not include suits
265, 289. Our original jur .
of the United States against persons or corporations alone,
see Ex parte Barry, 2 How. 65; Louisiana v. Texas, 176
U. S. 1, 16; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.'v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 215 U. S. 216, 224; Oklahoma v. Texas,
258 U. S. 574, 581, nor is it enough to sustain the jurisdiction in such a case that a State has been made a party
defendant. The bill of complaint must also present a

UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
463

471

Opinion of the Court.

"case 1Aor "controversy" to which the State is a party,
and which is within the judicial power granted by the
Judiciary Article of the Constitution.
Hence we pass directly to the question whether the bill
of complaint presents a case or controversy between .the
United States and the State of West Virginia within the
judicial power. The answer is unaffected by the fact, set
,forth in the bill of complaint, that the State, on its application to intervene in a suit, since discontinued, broughtby the United States in the District Court for West Virginia to restrain the corporate defendants from constructing the dam, asserted its interest as a State in the development of power under state license at the Hawks Nest dam,
particularly in the license fees and taxes to be derived
from the project. The details of the attempted intervention at most serve only to support the allegations of the
bill, that the State has asserted the right, through a license
of the Hawks Nest project, to control the use of the rivers
for power purposes.
At the outset, it should be noted that the bill in the
present suit neither asks the protection nor alleges the invasion of any property right. It asserts no title in the
United States to the bed of the stream, which might afford.
a basis for a suit to remove a cloud on title, as in United
States v. Utah, supra, and United States v. Oregon, ante,
p. 1. It alleges that the United States has -built dams
on the Kanawha River below the Hawks Nest project,
and has acquired lands in pursuance of its plans for flood
control, improvement of navigation, and .the generation
and sale of hydro-electric power on both rivers. But
there is no allegation of any interference by the State,
actual or threatened, with any of the land or property
thus acquired.
The only right or interest asserted in behalf of the
United States is its authority under the Constitution to

4t2

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opiniop of the Court.

295 U.S.

control navigable waters, and particularly the right to.
exercise t.hat authority through the Federal Power Commission. Since that authority is predicated upon the single fact fully alleged in the bill and admitted by the motions to dismiss, that the rivers are navigable waters of
the United States, the power of the United States to control navigation, and to prevent interference with it by the
construction of a dam except in conformity to the statutes
of the United States, must be taken to be conceded. See
New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S.328, 337. But the bill
alleges. no act or threat of interference by the State with
the navigable capacity of the rivers, or with the exercise
of the authority claimed by thp United States or in behalf
of the Federal Power Commission. It alleges only that
the State has assented to the construction of 'the dam by
its formal permit, under which the corporate defendants
are acting. There is no allegation that the State is participating or aiding in any way in the construction of the
dam -or in any interference with navigation; or that it is
exercising any control over the corporate defendants in
the construction of the dam; or that it has directed the
construction of the dam in an unlawful manner, or without a license from the Federal Power Commission; or has
issued any permit which is incompatible with the Federal
Water Power Act; or, indeed, that the State proposes to
grant other licenses, or to take any other action in the
future.
Section 28 of the Water Power Act of West Virginia,
c. 17 of the Acts of 1915, which gives to the state Pub.
lic Service Commission. its authority, provides that
"nothing contained .in this act shall be construed to interfere with the exercise of the jurisdiction by.the government of the United States over naivigable streams." The
bill seeks an injunction, against the corporate defendants,
restraining only the construction of -the dam.without a

UNITED -STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
463

473

Opinion of the Court.

license from the Federal Poier Commission. But § 9 (b)
of the Federal Water Power -Act requires that every applicant for a license shall present "'satisfactory evidence
that the applicant has complied with the requirements of
the laws of the State or States within which the proposed
project is to be located with respect to bed. and banks
and to the appropriation, diversion, and use of water
for power purposes and with respect to the right to
engage in the business of developing, transmitting, and
distributing power. . . ." The mere grant of the state
license, which the Federal "Water Pover Act makes prerequisite to the application for the federal license, cannot
be said to involve any infringement of -the federal
authority. It does not appear that the State has done
more.
We may assume, for present purposes, that the United
States as sovereign has a sufficient interest in thi maiAftenance of its control over navigable waters, and in the
enforcement of the Federal Water Power Act: to enable
it to maintain a suit in equity to restrain threatened unlawful invasions of its authority, see Kansas *'. Colorado,
185 U. S. 125; Georgia-.Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S.
230, 237; Marshall Dental M/anufacturinig Co. v. Iowa,
226 U. S. 460, 462; Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416.
431; see Hudson Waer Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349,
355, and that a cause of action within the jurisdiction of
a federal district court is stated against the corporate defendants who are dleged to be engaged in building an
obstruction in navigable waters of the United States.
But there is presented here, as respects the State. no
case of an actual or threatened interference with the authority of the United States. At most, the bill states a,
difference of opinion between the officials of the two governments, whether the rivers are navigable and. conseqtiently, whether -there is power and authority in the

OCTOBER TERM,. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 Ti. S.

federal government -to control their navigation, and particularly to prevent or control the construction ok the
Hawks Nest dam, and hence whether a license of the Federal Power Commission is prerequisite to its construution.
There is no support for the contention that the judicial
power extends to the adjudication of such differences ot
opinion. Only when they become the ubject of controversy in the constitutional sense are they susceptible of
judicial detern.'nation. See Nashville,-C. & St. L. Ry.
Co. v..Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 259. Until the right asserted is threatened with invasion by acts of the State,
which serve both Lo define the cbntroversy and to establish
its exis:lnce in the judicial sense, there is no question
presented which is justiciable by a federal court. See
Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126, 129, 130; Texas v.
IntestateCommerce Comm'n, 258 U. S. 158, 162; Ma-ssachusetts v. Mellon, supra, 483-485; New Jersey v. Sargent, supra, 339; 340.
General allegations that the State challenges the claim
of the United States that the rivers are navigable, and
asserts a right superior to that of the United States to
license their use for power production, raise an issue too
vague and ilI-defined to ,admit of judicial determination.
They afford no basis for an injunction perpetually restraining the State from asserting any interest superior or adverse to that of the United States in any dam on the
rivers, or in hydro-electric plants in connection with them,
or in the production and sale of hydro-electric power. The
bill -fails to disclose any existing controvei'sy within the
range of judicial power. See New Jersey v. Sargent, supra,
339, 340.
The Government places its chief reliance upon the decision in United States v. Utah, supra, in which this Court
took original jurisdiction of a suit, brought by the United
title to the bed of the
States against the State, to '1',t

UNITED STATES v. WEST VIRGINIA.
463

475

Opinion of the Court.

Colorado River. But the issue presented by adverse
claims of title to identified land is a case or controversy
traditionally within the jurisdiction,of courts of equity.
Such an issue does not want in definition. The public
assertion of the adverse claim by a defendant out of possession is itself an invasion of the property interest
asserted by the plaintiff, against which equity alone can
afford protection. See United States v Oregon, supra.
A -different issue, in point of definition of threatened
injury and imminence of the controversy, is presented by
rival claims of sovereign power made by the national and
a state government. The sovereign rights of the United
States to control navigation are not invaded or even
threatened by mere assertions. It is, in this respect, in
a position different from that of a property owner, whobecause of the adverse claims to ownership can neither
sell his property nor be assured of continued possession.
The control of navigation by the United States may be
threatened by the imminent construction of the dam, but
not by permission to construct it.
No effort is made by the Government to sustain the bill
under the Declaratory Judgment Act of June 14, 1934,
c. 512, 48 Stat. 955. It is enough that that act is applicable only "in cases of actual controversy." It does not
phrport to alter the character qf the controversies which
are the subject of the judicial power under the Constitution. See Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace,
supra.
Since there is no justiciable controversy between the'
United States and the State of West Virginia, the cause
is not within the original jurisdiction of this Court and
Dismissed.
must be
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS is of opinion that the United
States should be granted leave to amend its bill.

