STEWART v. KEYES.
Syllabus.

STEWART v. KEYES ET AL
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 142.

Argued December 6, 1934.-Decided May 20, 1935.

1. Land allotted and patented under § 28 of the Act of March 1,
1901 (Original Creek Agreement) in the right of a full-blood Creek
Indian to his "heirs," without naming them, passes to them as an
inheritance and not as an allotment in their own right. P. 406.
2. The restriction made by § 1 of the Act of May 27, 1908, on alienation of lands allotted to full-blood Indians of the Five Civilized
Tribes, in Oklahoma, relates to land which the allottee took in his
own right and not to land allotted in the right of a deceased ancestor
and which came to him as an heir. P. 411.
S. The purpose of the provision of § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908,
"That the death of any allottee of the Five Civilized Tribes shall
operate to remove all restrictions upon the alienation of said
allottee's land: Provided, That no conveyance of any interest of
any full-blood Indian heir in such land shall be valid unless
approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of
the estate of said deceased allottee," was to prescribe rules
respecting future alienation by heirs-as well where they had become such before the Act as where they might become such
thereafter. P. 412.
4. The proviso above quoted from § 9 of the Act of May 27, 1908,
should be read in connection with the statutes whereby'Congress
authorized and recognized guardianships of estates of full-blood
heirs who were minors or were mentally incompetent; and, so read,
although couched in general terms, it does not require that a
conveyance made by the guardian of a minor or incompetent heir
pursuant to a sale directed and approved by the court having
control of the guardianship shall also be approved by another
court, df the same rank, having jurisdiction over the estate of the
ancestor. Pp. 412, 414.
5. When Congress subjected Indian minors and incompetents of the
Five Tribes and their estates to the guardianship laws of Oklahoma, it did not thereby incorporate those laws into the federal
restrictions; it merely gave its assent to their application to such

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Indians; and the laws remained state laws, as before, and as
such were to be applied to these Indians. Apart from limitations expressly imposed by Congress, the state laws have the same
application to Indian guardianships that they have when the wards
are minors or incompetents of other races. P. 415.
6. Whether the proceedings in such Indian guardianships conform to
the state statutes is a question of state, not federal, law. And, in
the absence of congressional provision to the contrary, the time
and mode of seeking the correction of errors believed to have been
committed by the state courts in such proceedings, as also the
effect of inaction in that regard, are all controlled by the state
laws, as in the instance of other guardianship proceedings. P. 416.
7. As applied to a suit by a full-blood Creek Indian to recover an
inherited allotment which, while he was of age but mentally incompetent,.was sold and coieyed by his guardian with the approval
of the Oklahoma County Court, but whose right of action became
barred by the state statute of limitations, § 2 of the Act of Congress
of April 12, 1926, purporting to lift the bar in such cases for a
period of two years following the approval of that Act, is unconstitutional. P. 416.
8. As respects suits to recover real or personal property where the
right of action has been barred by a'statute of limitations and a
later Act has attempted to repeal or remove the bar after it
became complete, the rule sustained by reason and preponderant
authority is that the removing Act can not be given effect consistently with constitutional provisions forbidding a deprivation of
property without due process of law. P. 417.
167 Okla. 531; 30 P. (2d) 875, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming a judgment for the
defendants in a suit brought by Stewart, a full-blood
Creek Indian, to recover an interest in land.
Mr. William Neff for appellant.

Mr. Richard H. Wills, with whom Messrs. James C.
Denton and A. M. Beets were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was a suit brought in a court of Seminole County,

Oklahoma, by a full-blood Creek Indian to recover an

STEWART v. KEYES.
40a

405

Opinion of the Court.

interest in land inherited from his grandmother, also a
full-blood Creek Indian, and afterward sold by his guardian. The asserted grounds for a recovery were (1) that
the proceedings whereby the plaintiff was adjudged an incompetent and subjected to guardianship on that basis,
and also the proceedings leading to the sale, were invalid,
because in some particulars irregular or not in accord with
the laws of Oklahoma; (2) that the sale was in contravention of'a controlling federal restriction on alienation;
and (3) that an act of Congress of April 12, 1926, c. 115,
§ 2, 44 Stat. 239, permitted the suit to be brought within
two years after the act's approval notwithstanding any
bar which may have arisen under the state statutes of
limitation before such approval.
The defendants answered and a trial was had at which
judgment was given for them on a demurrer to the plaintiff's evidence. The Supreme Court of the State affirmed
the judgment, 167 Okla. 531; 30 P. (2d) 875, and put its
decision on the grounds (a) that the suit was barred by
the state statutes of limitation and (b) that the act of
Congress of April 12, 1926, relied on by the plaintiff as
avoiding such a bar, could not be applied, because, if
applied, it would deprive the defendants, who are holding under the guardian's sale, of vested rights without due
process of law. The court's opinion did not mention the
federal restriction on alienation set up by the plaintiff;
but, of course, the judgment necessarily meant that the
court regarded the asserted restriction as not requiring
a different result.
The plaintiff brings the case here by appeal and com-'
plains that the Supreme Court of the State erred (1) in
app] ving the state statutes of limitation over his objection
that they could not be applied without bringing them into
conflict- with the federal statute restricting alienation, and
(2) in holding the act of Congress of April 12, 1926, invalid as applied to the situation disclosed.

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

The facts in the light of which these complaints are to
be considered are as follows:
The plaintiff and his grandmother were full-blood Indians of the Creek tribe, enrolled as such, and entitled to
share in the allotment of the tribal lands among the members. ' She died before receiving her allotment, and after
her death the land in question, which was part of the
tribal lands, was allotted and patented in her right, the
patent being issued to her "heirs" without naming them.
Under the applicable statute the heirs received the land as
an inheritance from -herand not as an allotment in their
own right.' The plaintiff was one of the heirs. He also
received an allotment in his own right; and thus, like
many others, he had a personal allotment as well as an
interest in inherited land.
Thereafter, in 1907, the county court of Hughes County,
Oklahoma, regularly appointed John A. Jacobs guardian
of the plaintiff's person and estate, he then being a minor
and that being the county of his residence. In 1914 that
court entered an order (1) reciting it was made after a
hearing in the plaintiff's presence and at which he was
examined; (2) finding he was then over the age of 21
years, but was incompetent to manage his own affairs and
still in need of a guardian; (3) also finding Jacobs, the
then guardian, was a proper person to be continued as
such; (4) declining to accept a resignation tendered by
Jacobs; and (5) ordering that -the guardianship be continued and that thereafter Jacobs should act "as guard1The allotment in the right of the grandmother was made under
§ 28 of the act of 1901 which, after providing for the enrollment of

all tribal citizens living on April 1, 1899, declares, "and if any such
-citizen has died since that time, or may hereafter die, before receiving his allotment of lands and distributive share of all the funds of
the tribe, the lands and money to which he would be. entitled, if
living, 6hall descend to his heirs ... and be allotted and distributed
to them accordingly.'

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

Opinion of the Court.

ian for Noah Stewart, incompetent," and should "be
governed by the laws relating thereto." la Jacobs assented; and the subsequent proceedings were all entitled
"In the Matter of the Guardianship of Noah Stewart., an
Incompetent."
In May, 1916, the guardian by a verified petition requested the county court to authorize a sale of the plaintiff's interest in the inherited land for the purpose of
securing money needed for his maintenance and support
and for the improvement of his personal allotment. A
month later the court entered an order reciting a hearit,"
on that petition after lawful notice; finding the proposed
sale was necessary for the purposes named; and directing
the guardian to make the sale. Under that order the
guardian made the sale at public auction to the highest
bidder and reported it to the county court. July 11, 1916,
the court entered an order (1) finding that due notice of
the intended sale was given, that the sale was fairly conducted and legally made, and that the price was not disproportionate to the value of the property; (2) confirming
and approving the sale; and (3)directing the guardian to
execute a deed to the purchaser. The purchase price was
paid to the guardian and he executed and delivered to the
purchaser a deed, which was filed for record in the proper
office July 12, 1916. The purchaser then entered into
possession and he and his grantees remained in possession
continuously thereafter. The defendants are the present
claimants under the guardian's sale.
As part of the plaintiff's evidence it was stipulated that
the Secretary of the Interior had never removed any restrictions on the alienation of the inherited land and that
the same thing was true of the plaintiff's personal allot,aSee Mullen v. Glass, 43 Okla. 549; 143 Pao. 679; Yarhola v.
Strough, 64 Okla. 195; 166 Pac. 729; Lytle v. Fulotka, 106 Okla.
86; 233 Pac. 456; Johnston v. Guy, 165 Okla. 156; 25 P. (2d) 625.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

ment. But the defendants, although joining in the stipulation, objected that the facts stipulated were immaterial.
August 4, 1917, the county court after a hearing entered
an order adjudging that the plaintiff had become competent and discharging the guardian. The present suit
was begun April 11, 1928.
The Supreme Court of the State in applying the state,
statutes of limitation said [p. 532]:
"Under the provisions of Section 1444, 0. S. 1931, no
action for the recovery of any estate, sold bz a guardian,
can be maintained by the ward, unless it is commenced
within three years next after the termination of the
guardianship, or when a legal disability to sue exists by
reason of minority or otherwise, at the time when the
cause of action accrues, within three years next after the
kemoval thereof. The plaintiff could have commenced
his action at any time within three years after August 4,
1917. Under the provisions of Section 100, 0. S. 1931,
any person entitled to bring an action for the recovery of
real property, who may be under any legal disability when
the cause of action accrues, may bring his action within
two years after the disability is removed. Under that
statute the plaintiff could have brought his action within
two years after August 4, 1917. Under the provisions of
the second subdivision of Section 99, 0. S.1931, an action
for the recovery of real property sold by a guardian, upon
an order or judgment of a court directing such sale,
brought by the ward or his guardian, must be brought
within five years after the date of the recording of the
dekd made in pursuance of the sale. Under that statute
the plaintiff could have brought his action within five
years after the 12th day of July, 1916."
Under the state statutes thus described the court held
that the plaintiff's asserted right to call in question the
guardian's sale was barred before the suit was begun and

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

409-

Opinion of the Court.

before the approval of the act of Congress of April 12,
1926.
1. Was the guardian's sale, as directed and approved by
the county court, a forbidden alienation within the meaning of any then existing federal restriction? The plaintiff insists it was and points to the act of May 27, 1908,
c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, as containing the restriction.
As a preliminary to considering that statute it will be
helpful to refer to the conditions and legislation which
preceded its enactment.
The Creek Tribe was one of the Five Civilized Tribes,
each of which owned and occupied a tribal domain in the
Indian Territory. Congress never provided a territorial
government for that Territory, but ultimately did establish local courts therein and invested them with probate,
as well as civil and criminal, jurisdiction. The laws for
the Territory consisted largely of Arkansas statutes put
in force therein by Congress; and these statutes included
chapters providing comprehensively for the administration of estates of decedents, minors and incompetents, and
for the sale of their property. At first the adopted
Arkansas statutes were not intended to be fully applicable
to Indians, but Congress soon made them applicable to
all persons, "irrespective of race," 2 and later on declared
that the courts in the Territory should have "full and
complete jurisdiction" of all "estates of decedents,
guardianships of minors and incompetents, whether Indians, freedmen, or otherwise."3
November 16, 1907, the Territory of Oklahoma and the
Indian Territory were admitted into the Union as the
State of Oklahoma under an enabling act passed by Congress June 16, 1906, c. 3335, 34 Stat. 267, and amended
'Act of June 7, 1897, c. 3, 30 Stat. 62, 83.
"Act of April 28, 1904, c. 1824, § 2,'33 Stat. 573.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

March 4, 1907, c. 2911, 34 Stat. 1286. The enabling act
and the constitution of the new State united in declaring
that, with exceptions not material here, "all laws in force
in the Territory of Oklahoma" at the time of the State's
admission should be "in force throughout the State" and
that the "courts of original jurisdiction of such State"
should be the successors of "all courts of original jurisdiction of said Territories."
The laws of the Territory of Oklahoma which were thus
put in force "throughout" the new State included comprehensive provisions for the administration of estates of
decedents, the appointment of guardians of minors and
incompetents, and the management and sale of their
property. In the Territory of Oklahoma jurisdiction
over these subjects was vested in probate courts and by
the constitution of the new State that jurisdiction was
committed to county courts.
The lands of the Creek Tribe were .allotted among its
enrolled members pursuant to the act of March 1, 1901,
c. 676, 31 Stat. 861, as modified and supplemented by the
acts of June 30, 1902, c. 1323, 32 Stat. 500, and March 3,
1905, c. 1479, 33 Stat. 1071. Under these acts lands allotted to living members in their own right were subjected
to specified restrictions on alienation; but those allotted
in the right of deceased members were left unrestricted.'
The act of April 26, 1906, c. 2876, 34 Stat. 137, substituted a system of revised restrictions made applicable to
all of the Five Civilized Tribes. In § 19 it dealt with
restrictions relating to lands of living allottees, and in
§ 22 with those relating to inherited lands, including, as
this court has held, lands allotted in the right of deceased
members.' Under § 22 the right of full-blood Indian
heirs to alienate the inherited lands was subjected to the
'Skelton v. Dill, 235 U. S. 206; Adkins v. Arnold, 235 U. S. 417,
420; Talley v. Burgess, 246 U. S. 104, 107.
'Talley v. Burgess, supra, 108.

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

Opinion of the Court.

restriction that the conveyance be approved by the Secretary of the Interior.
The act of May 27, 1908, c. 199, 35 Stat. 312, again
revised the restrictions and practically substituted its § 1
for § 19 of the act of 1906, and its § 9 for § 22 of that act.
Thus, like the act of 1906, it dealt with the restrictions
relating to lands of living allottees separately from those
relating to inherited lands.
In § 1 the act of 1908, after declaring that certain lands
of designated classes of allottees "shall be free from all
restrictions," provides"All homesteads of said allottees enrolled as mixedblood Indians having half or more than half Indian blood,
including minors of such degrees of blood, and all allotted
lands of enrolled full-bloods, and enrolled mixed-bloods of
three-quarters or more Indian blood, including minors of
such degrees of blood, shall not be subject to alienation,
contract to sell, power of attorney, or any other incumbrance prior to April twenty-sixth, nineteen hundred and
thirty-one, except that the Secretary of the Interior may
remove such restrictions, wholly or in part, under such
rules and regulations concerning terms of sale and disposal
of the proceeds for the benefit of the respective Indians as
he may prescribe."
Counsel for the plaintiff place some reliance on that
restriction. But there is no basis for doing so. The
plaintiff's relation to the land in question was that .of an
heir, and not that of an allottee' The land was allotted
in the right of his deceased grandmother; so she rather
than he-should be regarded as the allottee.
Section 9 relates to the alienation of inherited lands.
So far as is material here it provides:
"That the death of any allottee of the Five Civilized
Tribes shall operate to remove all restrictions upon the
alienation of said allottee's land: Provided, That no con'Harris v. Bell, 254 U. S. 103, 108.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

veyance of any interest of any full-blood Indian heir in
such land shall be valid unless approved by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the estate of said
deceased allottee."
While this provision, if taken literally, might be regarded as confined to subsequent deaths and resulting
heirships, a reading of the entire act, including its introductory sentence, shows that the purpose was to prescribe
rules respecting future alienation by heirs-as well where
they had become such before the act as where they might
become such thereafter. The provision has been so
applied by this Court."
The first sentence in the quoted part of § 9, where not
restrained by the proviso, undoubtedly frees the inherited
lands from all restrictions on alienation. But as respects
an heir who is a full-blood Indian the proviso obviously
iestrains that sentence and, if taken literally, makes unlawful any conveyance of any interest of such an heir in
the inherited lands unless the conveyance be approved
by the court having jurisdiction of the settlement of the
estate of the deceased allottee. Here the heir was a fullblood Indian. So the question arises, whether the proviso
is intended to include a conveyance made pursuant to a
guardian's sale, such as was directed and approved by the
county court in this instance.
The proviso makes no mention of minors or incompetents under guardianship or of conveyances made by their
guardians under the direction of courts having jurisdiction of their estates. Under other acts of Congress the
persons and estates of Indian minors and incompetents in
the Indian Territory and the State of Oklahoma have long
been subjected to the jurisdiction of local courts; aDd that
jurisdiction is recognized throughout the allotment statutes before described and in § 2 of the act of 1908. True,
'Harris v. Bel, 254 U. S. 103, 108, 114.

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

Opinion of the Couit.

that jurisdiction could not be exercised otherwise than in
keeping with the laws of Congress relating to such Indians
and their lands; but this constitutes no -reason for putting
aside the statutes granting and recognizing the jurisdiction when a related statute is being examined and
construed.
The court which would have jurisdiction of the s'ttlement of the estate of the deceased allottee (plaintiff's
grandmother) is either the same county court that directed and approved the guardian's sale or the county
court in an adjoining county. So, the court named in the
proviso and the one which directed and approved the
guardian's sale were either identical or of the same rank.
A similar question respecting the construction and application of the proviso was considered by this court in
1920. The case involved a sale of inherited land by the
guardian of minor heirs who were full-blood Creek Indians, the guardian having acted under the order of the
court having control of the guadianship; and it was held
that the proviso, rightly construed, did not include such
a sale.
In that case the Court said:8
"If in this instance the same court had had jurisdiction
of the guardianship of the minor heirs and of the settlement of the estate of the deceased allottee, no embarrassment would have ensued; but as that was not the case,
the question arises, whether it was essential that the
guardian's conveyance, directed and approved, as it was,
by the court having control of the guardianship, should
also be approved by the court having jurisdiction of the
settlement of the deceased allottee's estate? The Circuit
Court of Appeals answered in the negative; and, while
the question is not free from difficulty, we think that
solution of it is right.
'Harris v. Bell, 254 U. S. 103, 112-113.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

"Of course, the purpose in requiring any approval is to
safeguard the interests of the full-blood Indian heir.
Where he is a minor he can convey only through a guardian, and no court is in a better situation to appreciate and
safeguard his interests than the one wherein the guardianship is pending. Besides, as a general rule, a guardianship carries with it exclusive power to direct the guardian and to supervise the management and disposal of the
ward's property. It is so in Oklahoma. This rule is so
widely recognized and so well grounded in reason that a
purpose to depart from it ought not to be assumed unless
manifested by some very clear or explicit provision ...
The proviso does not mention minors under guardianship;
and to regard its general words as including them will
either take all supervision of the sale of their interest in
inherited lands from the court in which the guardianship
is pending, or subject that court's action to the approval
of another court of the same rank. In either event conflict and confusion will almost certainly ensue and be
detrimental to the minor heirs. But, if the proviso be
regarded, as well it may, as referring to heirs not under
guardianship . . . all full-blood heirs will receive the
measure of protection intended. We think this is the
true construction."
In principle what was said there is applicable here.
That the Indian heir in that case was a minor and in this
was an incompetent is not material. The important
thing, both there and here, is that the conveyance was
made under the diiection of the court having jurisdiction
of a pending guardianship over the heir's estate. The
guardianships were alike in point of congressional authorization and recognition, had like purposes, and were attended by like measures of control.
Plainly the proviso should be read in connection with
the statutes whereby Congress authorized and recognized
such guardianships and in the light of familiar rules of

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

Opinion of the Court.

construction. Upon such a reading it becomes reasonably
certain that the proviso, although couched in general
terms, is not intended to include a conveyance made by
the guardian of a minor or incompetent heir pursuant to
a sale directed and approved by the court having control
of the guardianship of the. heir's estate.
The review which we have made of the federal restrictions shows that the guardian's sale was not a forbidden
alienation under.any of them.
2. We come then to the contention respecting the application of the state statutes of limitation. It proceeds
on the assumption first, that the guardian's sale was in
direct conflict with the federal restrictions on alienation;
and, secondly, that the proceedings whereby the plaintiff
was brought under guardianship as an incompetent, as
also the later proceedings leading to the sale, were not
in conformity with the state statutes and that these irregularities brought the sale in conflict with the restrictions.
We have already shown that the first assumption is not
tenable. And we are of opinion- the second is illgrounded.
When Congress subjected Indian minors and incompetents and their estates to the laws of the State in respect
of guardianships it did not thereby incorporate those laws
into the federal restrictions. It merely gave its assent to
their application to such Indians. The laws remained
state laws, as before, and as such were to be applied to
these Indians. Congress expressly imtosed a limitation
fixing stated ages of majority for them. This, of course,
put that matter beyond the reach of the state statutes,
and the courts of the State have so ruled. Apart from
this limitation and some others not material here, the
state laws have the same application to Indian guardianships that they have when the wards are minors or incompetents of other races.

'416

-OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Whether the proceedings in such Indian guardianships
conform to the state statutes is a question of state, not
federal, law. And, in the absence of congressional provision to the contrary, the time and mode of seeking the
correction of errors believed to- have been committed by
the state courts in such proceedings, as also the effect of
inaction in that regard, are all controlled by the state laws,
as in the instance of other guardianship proceedings.
It follows from these considerations that, subject to a
matter about to be considered, no federal statute or right
was violated or infringed in applying the state statutes of
limitation to this suit.
3. The remaining question is whether there was error
in the ruling that the act of April 12, 1926, could not be
given effect in this case without depriving the defendants
of property contrary to the due process of law clause of
the Constitution.
The defendants hold the rights transferred by the
guardian's sale and deed. The deed was filed for record
July 12, 1916, and the grantee then went into possession.
The plaintiff had then attained his majority but was under guardianship as an incompetent. That disability and
guardianship terminated August 4, 1917. The guardian's
sale and deed were not challenged until April 11, 1928,
when this suit was begum In the meantime any right the
plaintiff may have had to challenge the sale and deed
had become barred by § 1444 and subdivision 2 of § 100
of the state. statutes of limitation. The bar became effective July 12, 1921, if not August 4, 1920, in that under
the operation of those statutes the guardian's sale and
deed then ripened into an unassailable title.
Section 2 of the act of April 12, 1926, declares that"No cause of action which heretofore shall have accrued
to" any restricted Indian of any of the Five Civilized
Tribes "shall be barred prior to the expiration of a

STEWART v. KEYES.
403

Opinion of the Court.

period of two years from and after the approval of this
Act, even though the full statutory period of limitation
shall already have run or shall expire during said two
years' period, and any such restricted Indian, if competent
to sue, or his guardian, or the United States in his behalf, may sue upon any such cause of action during such
two years' period free from any bar of the statutes of
limitations."
We are of opinion that so much of the section as purports to free from any bar of the statutes of limitation a
cause of action such as is here presented, notwithstanding
the full period of limitation had run prior to the act's
approval, falls nothing short of an attempt arbitrarily to
take property from one having a perfect title and to subject it to an extinguished claim of another.
As respects suits to recover real or personal property
where the right of action has been barred by a statute of
limitations and a later act has attempted -to repeal or remove the bar after it became complete, the rule sustained
by reason and preponderant authority is that the removing act cannot be given effect consistently with constitutional provisions forbidding a deprivation of property
without due process of law.' "The reason is," as this
Court has said, "that, by the law in existence before the
repealing act, the property had become the defendant's.
Both the legal title and the real ownership had become
vested in him, and to give the act the effect of transferring
this title to plaintiff, would be to deprive him of his property without due process of law." 10
The state court so ruled in this suit and we sustain that

ruling.
Judgment affirmed.
*Cooley Const. Lim., 6th ed., p. 448.
Campbell v. Holt, 115 U. S. 620, 623.

