OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

.20.5

U. S.

each year and that any differences would be averaged out
in the course of a number of years. That assumption is
unwarranted, particularly .in view of Snyder's professed
object "to accumulate as many shares of U. G. I. as he
could." ' His alternative suggestion, that, since purchases
in fact exceeded sales during 1928, the "First-in, first-out"
rule, if applied at all, should be confined to purchases
and sales in the course of the year, adds nothing to the
contentions that have already been considered in this
case or in Helvering v. Rankin.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurs in the result, but thinks

that the petitioner failed to show that the particular
shares sold were capable of identification with respect to
the date of their purchase, and that they could not be
identified merely by the taxpayer's designation of them
to the broker as the shares to be sold.
CALIFORNIA OREGON POWER CO. v. BEAVER
PORTLAND CEMENT CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 612.

Argued April 5, 8, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. A patent issued under the Homestead law, after the date of thr,
Desert Land Act of 1877, for lands in the State ut Oregon bordering on a non-navigable stream, does -not, of its own force, inveb4
the owner of the land with a common-law right to have the water
flow ,ut solebat, as against an opposite 'riparian owner who seeks,
'In Snyder's computation, although he purports to take " the di ference between the purchase price and sale price of shales bought
and sold during the year," the cost of the last 1,500 sharcs bought in
one of his two brokerage accounts during the year is deducted from
the total cost of -purchases in that account, because purchazrs txceeded sales by 1,500 shaTes.

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Syllabus

by blasting in the bed of the stream, on his ovn side, to obtain
stone for a dam and to free the channel for the use of adjudicated
water rights and permits to appropriate issued by state authority.
P. 153.
2. Water rights acquired in the so-called arid and semi-arid States
and Territories by the application of the non-navigable waters on
the public domain to beneficial uses in accordance with local rules,
customs, laws and judicial decisions, were recognized and secured
by the Act of July 26, 1866, § 9, the amending Act of July 9, 1870,
§ 17, and the Desert Land Act of 1877. P. 154.
3. The Desert Land Act of.1877, allowed entry and reclamation of
arid lands within the. States of California, Oregon, and- Nevada,
(to which Colorado was later added), and the then Territories of
Washington, Idaho, Montana, Utah, Wyoming, Arizona, New Mexico, and Dakota, which have since become States. It contained a
proviso to the effect that the right to the use of water by the
claimant should depend upon bona fide appropriation, not, to exceed the amount of water actually appropriated and necessarily
used for the purpose of irrigation and reclamation, and declared
that "all surplus water over and above such actual appropriation
and use, together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other
sources of water supply upon the public lands and not navigable,
shall remain and be held free for the appropriation and use of the
public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing purposes subject
to existing rights." Held, that the effect was to sever all waters
upon the public domain, not theretofore appropriated, from the
land itself, and that a patent issued thereafter for lands in a
desert-land State or Territory, under any of the land laws of the
United States, carried with it, of its own force, no conmon-law
right to the water flowing through or bordering upon the lands
conveyed. Pp. 155-158.
4. As owner of the public domain, the United States has power to
dispose of the land'and water together or separately. P. 162.
5. A fair construction of the p rovision of the. Desert Land Act,
supra, is that, for- the future, the land should be patented separately, and that all non-navigable waters thereon should be,
reserved for the use of the public under the laws of the States
and Territories named. P. 162.
6. The terms of the statute, thus construed, must be read into every
patent thereafter issued, with the same force as though expressly
incorporated therein, with the result that the grantee will take
the legal title to the land conveyed, and such title, and only. such
title, to the flowing waters thereon as shall be fixed or acknowledged

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

295 U. S.

by the customs, laws, and judicial decisions of the State of their
location. P. 162.
7. If it be conceded that in the absence of federal legislation the
State would be powerless to affect the riparian rights of the United
States or its grantees, still, the authority of Congress to vest such
power in the State, and that it has done so by its legislation, cannot
be doubted. P. 162.
8. Following the Desert Land Act of 1877, if not before, all nonnavigable waters then a part of the public domain became publici
juris, subject to the plenary control of the designated States,
including those since created out of the territories named, with
,the "right in each to determine for itself to what extent the rule of
appropriation or the common-law rule in respect of riparian rights
should obtain. P. 163.
73 F. (2d) 555, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 294 U. S. 701, to review the affirmance of
a decree denying, for the most part, injunctive relief
sought by the Power Company, against interference with
the normal flow of a stream bordering its land.
Mr. A. E. Reames for petitioner.
The common law was adopted on the admission of
Oregon. Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 52. See also,
U. S. Fidelity & G. Co. v. Bramwell, 108 Ore. 261-289;
Fidelity Co. v. State Bank, 117 Ore. 1, 5.
Oregon cases prior to the issuance of petitioner's patent
decided that the common-law riparian doctrine was appli-cable to the conditions prevailing in Oregon, and applied
the same, thereby supplementing and applying the provisions of the state constitution. Taylor v. Welch, 6 Ore.
199, 200-201; 'Shively v. Hume, 10 Ore. 76; Hayden v.
Long, 8 Ore. 245; Shaw v. Oswego Iron Works, 10 Ore.
375-6; Morgan v. Shaw, 47 Ore. 333; Weiss v. Oregon
Iron & Steel Co., 13 Ore. 496.
In this periodthere was, of course, applied the doctrine
of appropriation, arising out of the Acts'of Congress, and'
the. custons'bf the sdtle l,%,prcially miners. But the
right to appropriate was always herl to be cut off by the

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Argument for Petitioner.

entry of the riparian lands, if they were subsequently patanted to the entryinan. And such rights of appropriation
were only held to be superior to the .riparian rights, of
the riparian owner, when the appropriator had, by adverse
possession for the period of prescription, taken the water
from the riparian owner or entryman. From such adverse
use arose the expression "riparian doctrine, as modified
by the doctrine of prior appropriation." But the Oregon
court had never held 'that an appropriator could enter
upon the lands of the riparian owner to make an. appropriation, or deprive a riparian owner of the flow of the
-water through his lands, except by such adverse use for
the period of prescription. •
The patent relates back to the actual entry of the settler upon the land, and cuts off future appropriations of
water belonging to the lands because of their riparian
character.- Larsen .v. Oregon Ry. & Nay. Co., 19 Ore.
240; Faull v. Cooke, 19 Ore. 455. See also, Sturr v.
Beck, 133 U. S. 541-552; Brown v. Baker, 39 Ore. 66-75;
dissent, Hood River Case, 114 Ore. 214-248; Cole v.
Logan, 24 Ore. 304; United States v. Rio Grande Dam &
IrrigationCo., 174 U. S.690.
In legislative enactments of Oregon the riparian rights,
arising from the location of the lands upon the streams,
were recognized and dealt with.
Riparian rights are vested rights and are not lost Dy
nonuser. "Yates v. Milwaukee, 10 Wall. 497-501; United
States v. Rio Grande Dam & IrrigationCo., 174 U. S.690:
Hanson v. Thornton, 91 Ore. 585; Clark v. Cambridge &
A. I. & I. Co., 45 Neb. 798; Mansfield v. Balliett, 58
L. R. A. 628-637; Martha Lake Water Co. No. 1 v. Nelson, 152 Wash. 53; Lux v. Haggin, 69 Cal. 255; Hindman
v. Rizor, 21 Ore. 112; Fail River Valley Irr. Dist. v. Mt.
Shasta Power Corp., 202 Cal. 56; St. Germain Irrigating.
Co. v. Hawthorn Ditch Co., 32 S.D. 260; Brewer-Elliott
Oil & Gas Co. v. United States, 270 Fed. 100; aft'd, 260

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Petitioner.

295 U. S.

U. S. 77; Hardin v. Jordan, 140 U. S. 371, 384; Thiesen
v. Gulf, F. & A. R. Co., L. R. A. 1918 E, 718.
Legislative Acts impairing vested rights must be construed prospectively.
The Oregon Water Code, as construed in the Hood
River Case, 114 Ore. 112, and in the opinion of the court
below, is violative of the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. It destroys the vested rights
of petitioner, upon the ground that its riparian rights
had not been used at the date of the enactment of the
Code. It permits the riparian proprietor who had so
used his right before the enactment of the Code to retain
the priority of his right to the use of the waters as of the
date when he acquired the riparian right.
The construction put by the state court upon the
Water Code denies to petitioner the right of priority as
of the date of its settlement upon the land, purely upon
the ground that it had not put the water to a beneficial
use before the enactment of the Code. In as much as
there was never any law requiring the riparian proprietor to use the rights at any particular time, nor was any
notice of any kind ever given that such an enactment as
the Water Code, with its emergency clause, would cut
off riparian rights that had not been so put to a beneficial use, petitioner's property is taken without an opportunity to make a use, which, under the Act, would
save it from confiscation.
The Oregon Water Code, as construed in the Hood
River Case, which construction was adopted in the court
below, violates § 4 of Art. XI of the Oregon constitution,
as construed in Logan v. Spaulding Logging Co., 100 Ore.
731, which should have been followed. " °
Petitioner maintains that, properly construed, the Code
has not impaired its rights in the least; but that, as construed in the decree under review, petitioner's vested
rights have been destroyed without due process of law;

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Argument for Petiioner.

that they have been taken without compensation, and delivered to the respondent cement company, which seeks
to use the same for the purposes for which the petitioner
acquired them, namely: The manufacture of electrical
power by the use of the waters of the stream, where it
flows over and along petitioner's lands.
For the various constructions put upon the provisions of
the Water Code. by the Oregon court and by this Court,
see: In re Willow Creek, 74 Ore. 592; Pacific Livestock
Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440; Re Water Rights of Hood
River, 114 Ore. 112; Norwood v. Eastern Oregon Land
Co., 112 Ore. 106; Logan v. Spaulding Logging Co., *100
Ore. 731; Harrisv. Southeast Portland Lumber Co., 123
Ore. 549.
The legislature may declare what the law shall be in the
future. But if it presume to declare the law as of the
date of the enactment, it invades the province of the
judiciary, and its definition of a vested riparian right
should be disregarded by the courts.
The decision in Hough v. Porter,-51 Ore. 318, that lands
patented after the date of the Desert Land Act are without riparian rights, because the Act severed such rights
from the public land, is unsound. Congress did not in
that enactment intend to interfere with the riparian
doctrine as applied in the States. Cf. Scott v. Lattig,
227 U. S. 229; United States v. Rio Grande Dam & Irr.
Co., 174 U. S. 690.
Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541; Faull v. Cooke, 19 Ore.
455; Larsen v. Oregon Ry. & Nay. Co., 19 Ore. 240; and
Brown v. Baker, 39 Ore. 66, are all to the effect that rights
by appropriation are cut off by the entry upon the lands
for settlement followed by compliance with the law and
the issuance of the patent.
It has been the constant policy of the Government of
the United States to allow the citizens of the various
States to work out their own system of law with relation

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Argument for Respondents.

295 U.S.'

to water rights, without intervention or adverse legislation
by the Federal Government. United States v. Central
Stockholders Corp., 52 F. (2d) 322.
In Still v. Palouse Irr.& Power Co., 64 Wash. 606, the
Supreme Court of Washington declined to follow Hough
v. Potter, 51 Ore. 318. See also, San Joaquin & Kings
River Co. v. Worswick, 187 Cal. 674.
The Oregon Water Code is not an exercise of the police
power, and even if it were, vested rights could not be
taken without compensation.
Property devoted to and held for a public use cannot
be taken for another public use inconsistent with the public use to which the property is already devoted.
Mr. W. Lair Thompson for respondents.
A riparian owner may not ignore an adjudication of the
iz lative rights to the use of.the wateis of a-stream under
the Oregon practice and then at a latef date assert a
right antedating the adjudication.
It is not a question of res judicata, but a question of
the method of asserting a water right where the rights to
the use of the waters of a stream have been adjudicated.
The proceeding is in rem, and a, single claimant on a
stream must claim all of his rights either as an appropriator or as a riparian owner. Petitioner's predecessor
claimed and was awarded a right by appropriatioB, and
did not claim and was not in a position to claim a riparian

right.
The common-law doctrine that the owner of riparian
land may insist that the waters of the stream flow by his
land unused by himself and to the exclusion of use by
others, has never been adopted in Oregon. Neither the
legislative nor the judicial history of Oregon will sustain
the contention that the policy of this State has built up
a rule of property sustaining the idle water doctrine.
The common-law doctrine of riparian rights and the
doctrine of non-riparian use are so opposed that the adop-

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Argument for Respondents.

tion of the latter is an immediate departure from the
former. Oregon early adopted laws for the appropriation
of water, and never, prior to patent from the United
States to petitioner's predecessor in interest, did the Supreme Court of Oregon determine that the common law
of riparian rights should be the rule in this State. After
the issuance of patent to petitioner's predecessor, the
water law of Oregon was in a state of flux until the Water
Code of 1909 definitely limited water rights to such as
had been put to a beneficial use prior to its enactment,
or to such as might be thereafter acquired in conformity
with the provisions of the Code. At all times beneficial
use has been the measure of right and never has the court
as a litigated question sustained the doctrine of continuous flow without use. Prior to March 11, 1921, when
petitioner acquired its land, there was neither court decision nor legislation in Oregon to justify the contention
that a rule of. property had been established upon wfiich
petitioner could rely.
The Desert Land Act, passed March 3, 1877, by reserving for appropriation all waters of non-navigable lakes
and streams upon all public lands, put an end to riparian
claims to water flowing through lands patented after the
date of the Act.
Ex parte Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, 192; United States v.
Rio Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 174 U. S. 690, 703,
706; Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land & Irrigation Co.,
188 U. S. 545, 555; Boquillasv. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339, 344;
Hough v. Porter,51 Ore. 318; Wyoming v. Colorado, 259
U. S. 419, 465; Williams v. Altnow, 51 Ore. 275, 296, 298;
Hill v. American Land & Livestock Co., 82 Ore. 202, 207;
Cook v. Evans, 45 S. D. 31; Haaser v. Englebrecht, 45
S. D. 143; San Joaquin,& Kings River Co. v. Worswick,
187 Cal. 674; Still v. PaIouse Irr. & Power Co., 64 Wash.
606; Bernot v. Morrison, 81 Wash. 538, 559.
The lands of petitioner were patented by the United
States April 20, 1885, and at once became subject t6 the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
(ninion of the Court.

295 U. S.

laws of real property of Oregon. In the gradual development of a policy to govern water rights in the State,
the Supreme Court of Oregon reached the conclusion,
and definitely decided, that lands patented to citizens
of Oregon after March 3, 1877, should not have a claim
to wvter as riparian. It was for Oregon to determine
what its water law should be and to what extent, if at
all, it would recognize riparian rights. It concluded
that it would not recognize riparian rights to lands patented after March 3, 1877, and has consistently and repeatedly so ruled. Even though its construction of the
effect of congressional legislation should be erroneous, is
its decision of landed rights or water rights in this State,
as to property that is no longer a part of the public domain, to be overturned because the reason for the decision may have been erroneous? It seems to us there is
involved merely a question. of power, that the Supreme
Court of Oregon had the power to decide, regardless of the
wisdom or correctness of the reason for the decision.
The Oregon Water Code of 1909 did not deny to petitioner-equal protection of the law or take its property
without due process of law.
Without a vested water right, and with no damage to
its side of the stream-by the operations of respondent,
and with a decree requiring respondent always to maintain the water at a level that will supply water on petitioner's side of the stream, petitioner has shown no damage that would justify injunctive relief.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by petitioner in a federal district
court for Oregon against respondents, to enjoin them from
interfering with the waters of Rogue River, in. the State
of Oregon, in any such way as to lessen the volume which
flows over and along petitioner's land, and particularly

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

OpinioA, of the Court.

from carrying on any drilling or blasting operations in the
bed of the stream or removing rocks or other material
therefrom. Following a trial, the district court made
findings of fact and entered a decree denying the relief
prayed for, except that respondents were enjoined from so
carrying into effect their operations as to reduce the level
of Rogue River below a designate'd elevation above sea
level, and in another particular not necessary to be stated.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree, 73 F.
(2d) 555; and we brought the case here on certiorari.
Rogue River is a non-navigable stream, and in its course
flows through and between lands of petitioner on the east
bank of the river and lands of respondent's upon the west
bank, the thread of the stream being the boundary between the two. Petitioner's lands were acquired by a
predecessor in interest in 1885 by patent from the United
States under the Homestead Act of May 20, 1862. The
lands were purchased by petitioner and conveyed to it in
1921. Petitioner is a public-service corporation engaged
in manufacturing and supplying electrical current to its
customers. The City of Gold Hill, a municipal corporation, owns the lands on the west side of the river, and the
Beaver Portland Cement Company is in possession of
them, together with certain adjudicated water rights and
permits issued from the office of the state engineer, under
a contract of sale from the city. The blasting complained
of was all west of the thread of the stream, on respondents' property, and was for the double purpose of freeing
the channel, incident to the use of the water rights adjudicated and permitted, and securing broken stone for a dam
to be used in connection with a power plant which the
cement company was about to build.,
Neither petitioner nor any of its predecessors in interest has ever diverted the waters of the river for beneficial
use on the real property or sought to make an actual appropriation thereof. The sole claim is based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

common-law rights of a riparian proprietor, which petitioner says attached to the lands when the patent was
issued to its first predecessor in title.
Petitioner insists that prior to the adoption of the
Oregon Water Code of 1909, infra, the common-law rule
that the riparian owner was entitled to the natural flow
of the stream across or along the border of his land in
its accustomed channel was recognized and in full force
in the State of Oregon. Respondents contend to the con
trary. Both cite many Oregon decisions and argue the
matter at length. But an examination of the authorities
leaves the question in doubt. In dealing with cases where
the parties making conflicting claims were both riparian
owners, the doctrine of the common law seems to have
been recognized. Other cases appear to accept what is
called a modified form of the common-law rule; and still
other decisions apparently enforce the rule of appropriation. It is suggested by respondent. that, prior to the
adoption of the Water Code in 1909, the policy in respect of water rights was developing and the law on the
subject of riparian rights was in a state of flux. There
appears to be reason in the suggestion. But, in view of
the conclusion to which we have come, it is unnecessary
to pursue the inquiry further.
In 1909, the Water Code was adopted by the state legislature. Ore. Laws, 1909, Chap. 216. The act provides
that all water within the state shall be subject to appropriation for beneficial use; but nothing therein is to be
construed to take away or impair any vested right. In
respect of a riparian proprietor, a vested right is defined
"as an actual application of water to beneficial use prior
to the passage of this act . . . to the extent of the actual
application to beneficial use." The Code provides for
the adjudication of water rights upon a petition to the
state engineer. And any court in which suit is brought
to determine such rights may, in its discretion, transfer

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

153

Opinion of the Court.

the case to the state engineer for determination. But no
decision of the state engineer is to become final until confirmed by the court designated as having jurisdiction
under the act. The procedural provisions of the act have
been sustained as constitutional by this court. Pacific
Live Stock Co. v. Lewis, 241 U. S. 440.
The court below held (1) that the homestead patent of
1885 carried with it the common-law right to have the
stream continue to flow in its accustomed channel, without substantial diminution; but (2) that, while this was
a substantial property right which could not be arbitrarily
destroyed, it nevertheless was subject to the police power
of the state and might be modified by legislation passed
in the interest of the general welfare; and upon the latter
ground the Water Code was upheld and the claims of
respondents sustained.
First, The first question is of especial importance to
the semi-arid states of California, Oregon and Washington.
where climatic conditions in some sections so differ from
those in others that the doctrine of the common law may
be of advantage in one instance, and entirely unsuited to
conditions in another. Probably, it was this diversity of
conditions which gave rise to more or less confusion in
the decisions-not only of Oregon, but of California-in
respect of the subject. We have already spoken of the
former; and one has only to compare the decision of the
Supreme Court of California in Lux v. Haggin, 69 Cal.
255; 4 Pac. 919; 10 Pac. 674, with Modoc L. & L. S. Co. v.
Booth, 102 Cal.. 151; 36 Pac. 431, to realize that the rule
with respect to the extent of the application of the common law of riparian rights is, likewise, far from being
clear in the latter.
The question with which we are here primarily concerned is whether-in the light of pertinent history, of
the conditions which existed in the arid and semi-arid
land states, of the practice and attitude of the federal

154

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

government, and of the congressional legislation prior to
1885-the homestead patent in question carried with it
as part of the granted estate the common-law rights which
attach to riparian proprietorship. If the answer be in the
negative, it will be unnecessary to consider the second
question decided by the court below.
For many years prior to the passage of the Act of July
26, 1866, c. 262, § 9, 14 Stat. 251, 253, the right to the use
of waters for mining and other beneficial purposes in
California and the arid region generally was fixed and
regulated by local rules and customs. The first appropriator of water for a beneficial use was uniformly recognized as having the better right to the extent of his actual
use. The common law with respect to riparian rights
was not considered applicable, or, if so, only to a limited
degree. Water was carried by means of ditches and
flumes great distances for consumption by those engaged
in mining and agriculture. Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S.
453, 457-458. The rule generally recognized throughout
the states and territories of the arid region was that the
acquisition of water by prior appropriation for a beneficial
use was entitled to protection; and the rule applied
whether the water was diverted for manufacturing, irrigation, or mining purposes. The rule was evidenced not
alone by legislation and judicial decision, but by local
and customary law and usage as well. Basey v. Gallagher,
20 Wall. 670, 683-684; Atchison v. Peterson, 20 Wall.
507, 512-513.
This general policy was approved by the silent acquiescence of the federal government, until it received formal
confirmation 'at the hands of Congress by the Act of
1866, supra. Atchison v. Peterson, supra. Section 9 of
that act provides:
"That whenever, by priority of possessidn, rights to the
use of water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing, or
other purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Opinion of the Court.

are recognized and acknowledged by the local customs,
laws, and the decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights shall be maintained and protected in the same; and the right of way for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes aforesaid is
hereby acknowledged and confirmed: . . ."
This provision was "rather a voluntary recognition of a
pre-existing right of possession, constituting a valid claim
to its continued use, than the establishment of a new one."
Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S. 274, 276; United States v.
Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U. S. 690, 704-705. And
in order to make it clear that the grantees of the United
States would take their lands charged with the existing
servitude, the Act of July 9, 1870, c. 235, § 17, 16 Stat.
217, 218, amending the Act of 1866, provided that"... all patents granted, or pre6mption or homesteads
allowed, shall be subject to any vested and accrued water
rights, or rights to ditches and reservoirs used in connection with such water rights, as may have been acquired
under or recognized by the ninth section of the act of
which this act is amendatory."
The effect of these acts is not limited to rights acquired
before 1866. They reach into the future as well, and approve And confirm the policy of appropriation for a beneficial use, as recognized by local rules and customs, and
the legislation and judicial decisions of the arid-land
states, as the test'and measure of private rights in and to
the non-navigable waters on the public domain. Jones
v. Adams, 19 Nev. 78, 86; 6 Pac. 442; Jacob v. Lorenz,
98 Cal. 332, 335-336; 33 Pac. 119.
If the acts of 1866 and 1870 did not constitute an entire
abandonment of the common-law rule of running waters
in so far as the public lands and subsequent grantees
thereof were concerned, they foreshadowed the more
positive declarations of the Desert Land Act of 1877,
which it is contended did bring about that result. That

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

act allows the entry and reclamation of desert lands
within the states of California, Oregon, and Nevada (to
which Colorado was later added), and the then territories
of Washington, Idaho, Montana, Utah, Wyoming, Arizona, New Mexico, and Dakota,, with a proviso to the
effect that the right to the use of waters by the claimnt
shall depend upon bona fide prior appropriation, not to
exceed the amount of waters actually appropriated and
necessarily used for the purpose of irrigation and reclamation. Then follows the clause of -the proviso with
which we are here concerned:
"... all surplus water over and above such' actual
appropriation and-use, together with the water of all
lakes, rivers and other sources of water supply upon the
public lands and not navigable, shall remain and be held
free for the appropriation and use of the public for irrigation, mining and 'manufacturing purposes subject to
existing rights." Ch. 107, 19 Stat. 377.
For the light which it will reflect upon the meaning
and scope of that provision and its bearing upon the
present question, it is well to pause at this point to consider the then-existing situation with respect to land and
water rights in the states and territories named. These
states and territories comprised the western third of the
United States-a vast empire in extent, but still sparsely
settled. From a line east of the Rocky Mountains almost
to the Pacific Ocean, and from the Canadian border to the
boundary of Mexico-an area greater than that of the
original thirteen states-the lands capable of redemption,
in the main, cqnstituted a desert, impossible of agricultural use without artificial irrigation.
In the beginning, the task of reclaiming this area was
left to the unaided efforts of the. people who found their
way by painful effort to its inhospitable solitudes. These
1

Later to become the states of North and South Dakota.

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Opinion of the Court.

western pioneers, emulating the. spirit of so many others
who had gone before them in similar ventures, faced the
difficult problem of wresting a living and creating- homes
from the raw elements about them, and threw down the
gage of battle to the forces of nature. With imperfect
tools, they built dams, excavated canals, constructed
ditches, plowed and cultivated the soil, and transformed
dry and desolate lands into green fields and leafy orchards.
In the success of'that effort, the general government itself
was greatly concerned-not only because, as owner, it
was charged through Congress with the duty of disposing
of the lands, but because the settlement and development
of the country in which the lands lay was highly desirable.
To these ends, prior to the summer of 1877, Congress
had passed the mining laws, the homestead and preemption laws, and finally, the Desert Land Act. It had encouraged and assisted, by making large land grants to
aid the building of the Pacific railroads and in many other
ways, the redemption of this immense landed estate.
That body thoroughly understood that an enforcement
of the common-law rule, by greatly retarding if not forbidding the diversion of waters from their accustomed
channels, would disastrously affect the policy of dividing
the public domain into small holdings and effecting their
distribution among innumerable settlers. In respect of
the area embraced by the desert-land states, with the
exception of a comparatively narrow strip along the Pacific seaboard, it had become evident to Congress, as it
had to the inhabitants, that the future growth and wellbeing of the entire region depended upon a complete
adherence to the rule of appropriation for a beneficial use
as the exclusive criterion of the right to the use of water.
The streams and other sources of supply from which this
water must come were separated from one another by
wide stretches of parched and barren land which'never
could be made to produce agricultural crops except by the

.158

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U.S.

transmission of water for long distances and its entire
consumption in the processes of irrigation. Necessarily,
that involved the complete subordination of the commonlaw doctrine of riparian rights to 'that of appropriation.
And this substitution of 'the rule of appropriation for
that of the common law was to have momentous consequences. It became the determining factor in the long
struggle to expunge from our vocabulary the legend
!'Great American Desert," which was spread in large letters across the face of the-old maps of the far west.
In'the light of the foregoing considerations, the Desert
Land Act was passed, and in their light it must now be
construed. By its terms, not only all surplus water over
and above such as might be appropriated and used by the
desert-land entrymen, but "the water of all lakes, rivers
and other sources of water supply upon the public lands
and not navigable" were to remain "free for the appropriation and use of the public for irrigation, mining and
manufacturing purposes." If this language is to be given
its natural meaning, and we see no reason why it should
not, it effected a severance of all waters upon the public
domain, not theretofore appropriated, from the land itself. From that premise, it follows that a patent issued
thereafter for lands in a desert-land state or territory,
under any of the land laws of the United States, carried
with it, of its own force, no common law right to the
water flowing through or bordering upon the lands conveyed. While this court thus far has not found it necessary to determine that precise question, its words, so
far as they go, tend strongly to support the conclusioix
which we have suggested.
In United States v. Rio GrandeIrrigationCo., 174 U. S.
690, the government sought to enjoin the irrigation company from constructing a dam across the Rio Grande
in the Territory of New Mexico, and from appropriating the waters of that stream. The object of the com-

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Opinion of the Court.

pany was to impound the waters and distribute the same
for a variety of purposes. The company defended on
the ground that the site of the dam was within the arid
region, and that it had f ily complied with the water
laws of the Territory of New Mexico in which the dam
was located and the waters were to be used. The supreme court of the territory affirmed a decree dismissing
the bill. This court reversed and remanded the case, with
'instructions to inquire whether the construction of the
dam and appropriation of water would substantially diminish the navigability of the stream, and, if so, to enter
a decree restraining the acts of the appellees to the extent
of the threatened diminution. The opinion, dealing with
the question of riparian rights, said that it was within the
power of any state to change the common-law rule and
permit the appropriation of the flowing waters for any
purposes it deemed wise. Whether a territory had the
same power the court did not then decide. Two limitations of state power were suggested: first, in the absence
of any specific authority from Congress, that a state could
not by its legislation destroy the -right of the United
States as the owner of lands bordering on a stream to
the continued flow-so far, at least, as might be necessary
for the beneficial use of the government property; and
second, that its power was limited by that bf the general
government to secure the uninterrupted navigability of
all navigable streams within the limits of the United
States. With these exceptions, the court,' however,
thought (p. 706) that by the acts of 1866 and 1877 "Congress reoognized and assented to the appropriation of
water in contravention of the common law rule as to continuous flow," and that "the obvious purpose of Congress was to give its assent, so far as the public lands were
concerned, to any system, although in contravention to,
the common law rule, which permitted the appropriatibn of those waters for legitimate industries." And see

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Bean v. Morris, 221 U. S. 485, 487; Van Dyke v. Midnight Sun Mining & Ditch Co., 177 Fed. 85, 88-91.
In Gutierres v. Albuquerque Land Co., 188 U. S. 545,
it was held that the acts of 1866 and 1877 recognized, in
respect of the public domain, the validity of the local
customs, laws and decisions of the territories as well as
of the states in respect of the appropriation of waters,
and granted the right to appropriate such quantity as
might be necessarily used to irrigate and reclaim desert
land, and the right of the public to use the surplus for
irrigation, mining, and manufacturing purposes subject
to existing rights.
In Boquillas Cattle Co. v. Curtis, 213 U. S. 339, this
court, while finding it unnecessary to decide whether
lands in the arid regions patented after the Desert Land
Act were accepted subject to the rule that priority of
appropriation gives priority of right, said that the decision
of the Supreme Court of Oregon to that effect in Hough
v. Porter,infra, proceeded "on plausible grounds." ,
And in Schodde v. Twin Falls Water Co., 224 U. S. 107,
122, an Idaho case which sharply presented conflicting
claims under the common-law rule and the rule'of appropriation, this court held that such common-law rights as
were incompatible with the rule of prior appropriation
for beneficial use could not coexist with the latter system.
Only four of the desert-land states have spoken upon
the matter, and their decisions are not in harmony. The
Supreme Court of Oregon in Hough v. Porter, 51 Ore.
318; 95 Pac. 732; 98 Pac. 1083; 102 Pac. 728, held that
the legal effect of the language already quoted from the
Desert Land Act was to dedicate to the public all interest,
riparian or otherwise, in the waters of the public domain,
and to abrogate the common-law rule in respect of riparian rights as to all lands settled upon or entered after
March 3, 1877. The supplemental opinion which deals
with the subject beginning at p. 382 is well reasoned, and

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Opinion of the Court,.

we think reaches the right conclusion. Subsequent decisions ir Oregon are to the same effect. Hedges v. Riddle,
63 Ore. 257, 259-260; 127 Pac. 548; Hilt v. American
Land & Livestock Co., 82 Ore. 202, 207; 161 *Pao. 403;
Allen v. Magill, 96 Ore. 610, 618-619; 189 Pac. 986; 190
Pac. 726.
This view was followed by the Supreme Court of South
Dakota in Cook v. Evans, 45 S. D. 31, 38; 185 N. W. 262;
and Haaser v. Englebrecht, 45 S. D. 143, 146; 186 N. W.
572.
The Supreme Court of Washington in Still v. Palouse
Irrigationd- Power Co., 64 Wash. 606, 612; 117 Pac. 466,
gave a,more limited construction to the Desert Land Act,
holding that thereby Congress recognized and assented to
the appropriation of water in contravention to the common-law right of the riparian owner only in respect of
desert lands granted under the act. See, also, Bernot v.
Morrison, 81 Wash.,538, 559-560; 143 Pac. 104.
In San Joaquin & K. R. Canal Co. v. Worswick, 187
Cal. 674, 690; 203 Pac. 999, the Supreme Court of California followed the Washington court in holding that the
language of the Desert Land Act applied only to desertland entries.
,To accept the view of the Washington and California
courts would, in large measure, be to subvert the policy
which Congress had in mind-namely, to further the
disposition dnd settlement of the public domain. It is
safe to say that by far the greater part of the public lands
in the desert-land states and territories susceptible of
reclamation in 1877 was remote from the natural sources
of water supply. But these lands were subject to entry,
not only under the Desert Land Act, but under other acts
as well. Congress must have known that innumerable
instances would arise where lands thereafter patented
under the Desert Land Act and other lands patented
under the pregmption and homestead laws, would be in

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the same locality and would require water from the same
natural sources of supply. In that view, it is inconceivable that Congress intended to abrogate the common-law
right of the riparian patentee for the benefit of the desert
land owner and keep it alive against the homestead or
preemption claimant.
As the owner of the public domain, the government
possessed the power to dispose of land and water thereon
together, or to dispose of them separately. Howell v.
Johnson, 89 Fed. 556, 558. The fair construction of the
provision now under review is that Congress intended to
establish the rule that for the future the land- should be
patented separately; and that all non-navigable waters
thereon should be reserved for the use of the public under
the. laws of the states and territories named. The w6rds
that the water of all sources of water supply upon the
public lands and not navigable "shall remain and be held
free for the appropriation and use of the public" are not
susceptible of any other construction. The only exbeption made is that in favor of existing rights; and the
only rule spoken of is that of appropriation. It is hard
to see how a more definite intention to sever the land and
water could be evinced. The terms of the statute, thus
construed, must be read into every patent thereafter
issued, with the same force as though expressly incorpo:rated therein, with the result that the grantee will take
the legal title to the land conveyed, and such title, and
only such title, to the flowing waters thereon as shall be
fixed or acknowledged by the customs, laws, and judicial
decisions of the state of their location. If it be conceded
that in the absence of federal legislation the state would
be powerless to affect the riparian rights of the United
States or its grantees, still, the authority of Congress to
vest such power in the state, and that it has done so
by the legislation to which we have referred, cannot be
doubted.

POWER CO. v. CEMENT CO.
142

Opinion of the Court.

The proceedings in connection with the adoption of the
Desert Land Act bear out this view. The bill which subsequently became the act was called up for consideration
in the Senate on February 27, 1877. The report of the
committee, among other things, said that the larger portions of the lands bordering on the streams had been appropriated; that the provisions of the bill would enable
settlers by combined efforts to construct more extensive
works and reclaim lands now worthless-; that a system had
'already grown up in the states and territories included
in the bill which recognized priority of appropriation as
the rule governing the right to the use of water, limiting
the amount to that actually used, and thus avoiding waste.
Senator Sargent of California, who was in charge of the
bill, in the course of the debate said that one great difficulty had been that "cattle-men go under a fictitious
compliance with the terms of the pre-emption law and
take their land along the margin of the streams, and then
there is no possibility of getting water to the back country
at all. I want to provide so that persons in the .back
country may go above such a persoxi, for instance, on
Humboldt River, and take the water out and conduct it
on to the back lands." Cong. Record, vol. V, pt. 3, 44th
Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 1965-1966. There is nothing in the
language of the act, or in the circumstances leading up
to or accompanying its adoption, that indicates an intention on the part of Congress to confine the appropriation
of water in contravention of the common-law doctrine to
desert-land entrymen.
Second. Nothing we have said is meant to suggest that
the act, as we construe it, has the effect of curtailing the
power of the states' affected to legislate in respect of
waters and water rights as they deem wise in the public
interest. What we hold is that following the act df 1877,
if not before, all non-navigable waters then a part of the
public domain became publici juris,subject to the plenary

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S

control of the designated states, including those since
created out of the territories named, with the right in
each to determine for itself to what extent the rule of
appropriation or the common-law rule in respect of riparian rights should obtain. For since "Congress cannot
enforce either rule upon any state," Kansas v. Colorado,
206 U. S. 46, 94. the full power of choice must remain
with the state. The Desert Land Act does not bind or
purport to bind the states to any policy. It simply recognizes and gives san6tion, in so far as the United States
and its future grantees are concerned, to the state and
local doctrine of appropriation, and seeks to-remove what,
otherwise might be an impediment to its full and successful operation. See Wyoming v. Colorado, 259 U. S. 419,
465. 2

'In this connection it is not without significance that Congress.
since the passage of the Desert Land Act, has repeatedly recognized
the supremacy of state law in respect of the acquisition of water for
the reclamation of public lands of the United States and lands of ifs
Indian wards. Two examples may be cited:
The Reclamation Act of 1902, c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388, directed the
Secretary of the Interior (§ 8) to proceed in conformity to the state
laws in carrying out the provisions of the act, and provided that
nothing in the act should be construed as affecting or intending to
affect or in any way interfere with the laws of any state or territory
"relating to the control, Appropriation, use, or distribution of water
used in irrigation."
The Act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 375, made an appropriation for constructing irrigation systems to irrigate lands of the
Uncompahgre, Uintah, and White River Utes in Utah, with the proviso that "such irrigation systems shall be constructed and completed
and held and operated, and water therefor appropriated under the
laws of the State of Utah," etc. This, was amended by the Indian
Appropriation Act of March 3, 1909, c. 263, 35 Stat. 781, 812, which
again recognized the supremacy of the laws of Utah in respect of appropriation, and provided that the appropriation should "be used
only in the event of failure to procure from the State of Utah or its
officers an extension of time in which to make final proof for waters
appropriated for the benefit of the Indians."

GEORGIA RY. & EL. CO. v. DECATUR.
142

165

Syllabus.

The public interest in such state control in the arid-*
land states is definite and substantial. In Clark v. Nash,
198 U. S. 361, 370, this court accepted that view to the
extent of holding that in the arid-land states the use of
water for irrigation, although by a private individual, is
a public use; and sustained as constitutional a state statute which, for purposes of irrigation, permitted an individual to condemn a right-of-way for enlarging a ditch
across the land of another. Mr. Justice Peckham, delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"The rights of a riparian owner in and to the use of
the water flowing by his land are not the same in the arid
and mountainous States of the West that they are in the
States of the East. These rights have been altered by
many of the Western States, by their -constitutions and
laws, because of the totally different circumstances in
which their inhabitants are placed, from those that exist
in the States of the East, and such alterations have been
made for the very purpose of thereby contributing to
the growth and prosperity of those States arising from
mining and the cultivation oT an otherwise valuelesg soil,
by means of irrigation. This court must recognize the
difference of climate and soil, which render necessary these
different laws in the States so situated."
For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the decree of the
court below, passing without consideration the second
question discussed by that court and upon which its decision rested, as to which we express no opinion.
Decree affirmed.

GEORGIA RAILWAY & ELECTRIC CO. ET

AL. v.

DECATUR.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA.
No. 570. Argued April 3, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. Where by state statute the basis for assessing a street railway
company for the cost of paving a street between and along its

