HELVERING v. RANKIN.
116

Syllabus.

Since payment was actually made to the collecting
bank, and never repudiated, it seems impossible to conclude that the secondary liability assumed by endorsers
remained in force. As the checks were not dishonored
when presented, the endorser could onlv have been advised that when paid the drawee lacked funds to meet
them.
The Ashland Bank is not seeking to enforce rules of
the Clearing House. It asks that proper effect be given
to actual payment made through compliance with those
rules. The duty of the drawee bank was either to pay or
refuse to pay when the holder presented and demanded
final payment of the checks. It paid them. The tentative payments became final-as much so as if money
had passed. No objection is made to the Clearing House
rules and we find none.
Section 102 of the Negotiable Instruments Law refers
to notice of dishonor, not to the time within which a dishonored check may be returned, nor to advice concerning
an overdraft. It does not relate to tentative payments
and is without application in circumstances like those
here disclosed. At least that seems clear to us and there
is no holding to the contrary by.the courts of Illinois.
The record reveals no attempt to recover because of
fraud, mutual mistake, or other similar circumstance.
The questioned judgment must be reversed. One will
be entered here for the petitioner.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. RANKIN, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

,No. 582.

Argued March 14, 15, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. For the purpose of ascertaining the taxable gain from a sale of
corporate shares made through a broker while he has them in a

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

marginal account with other lots of the same kind bought at
different times and at different prices for the same customer,
identification of the lot sold is not dependent on allocation of
particular stock certificates, which may be impossible, but is satisfled if the customer, through the broker, designated the shares to
be sold as those purchased on a particular date and at a particular
price. P. 128.
2. It is only when such a designation has not been made at the time
of sale, or is not shown, that there is room in such cases for applying the "First-in, first-out" regulation of the Treasury (Reg. No.
74, Art. 58), which provides: "When shares of stock in a corporation are sold from lots purchased at different dates and at different
prices and the identity of the lots can not be determined, the
stock sold shall be charged against the earliest purchases of such
stock." P. 129.
3. So construed, the regulation affects at most the burden of proof,
leaving the trader free to establish the identity of the shares by
any relevant evidence; it does not create a conclusive presumption
arbitrarily depriving him of any of the attributes of ownership,
such as the right to decide which shares he will sell. P. 129.
4. Identification of shares sold with shares purchased, precluding
application of the "First-in, first-out" Tule, is not made out by
proof of a mere intention of the trader not communicated to the
broker. P. 130.
5. The Circuit Court of Appeals is without power,. on review of proceedings of the Board of Tax Appeals, to make ay' findings of
fact; the function of the court is to decide whether the correct
rule of law was applied to the facts found, and whether there was
substantial evidence before the Board to support the findings made.
P. 131.
6. If the Board has failed to make an essential finding and the
record on review is insufficient to provide the basis for a final determination, the proper procedure is to remand the case for further
proceedings before the Board. And the same procedure is appropriate even when the findings omitted by the Board might be
supplied from examination of the record. P. 131.
7. The Circuit Court of Appeals is not justified in reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, though it be based on an
erroneous rule of law, if the findings of fact, governed by the
correct rule of law, are sufficient to sustain the decision and have
substantial support in the evidence. P. 132.

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
123

Opinion of the Court.

8. Cause remanded to the Circuit Court of Appeals for further consideration on the question whether a finding of the Board of Tax
Appeals was without substantial support in the evidence. P. 133.
73 F. (2d) 9, reversed.

CERTIORAm, 294 U. S. 700, to review a judgment reversing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 26 B. T. A.
1204, which upheld a determination of deficiency in
income tax.
Assistant Attorney General Widemqn, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. James W. Morris and
J. P. Jackson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John W. Townsend for respondent.
AIR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Revenue Act of 1928 (c. 852, §§ 22, 111, 112, 113),
provides, as had earlier Revenue Acts, that in computing
income from sales of property purchased after February
28, 1913, any excess of the amount realized over cost shall
be gain and that any excess of the cost over the amount
realized shall be loss. When gain or loss is to be determined on the sale of stock owned outright as an investment, the identification of the shares sold with those
purchased ordinarily presents no difficulty. But when
the taxpayer has engaged in marginal transactions on a
stock exchange, the identification of sales and purchases
is frequently impossible. It was, perhaps, primarily to
deal with such cases that the Treasury adopted, in 1918,'
"Art. 4,
60, Regulations No. 33 (Revised), Revenue Acts of
1916 and 1917; Art. 39, Regulations Nos. 45, 62, 65 and 69, Acts of
1918, 1921, 1924 and 1926, respectively; Art. 58, Regulations Nos.
74.and 77, Acts of 1928 and 1932 respectively; Art. 22 (a)-8, Reguldtions No. 86, Act of 1934.

OCTOBER TERM. 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the so-called "First-in, first-out" rule. That rule appears
in Article 58 of Regulations No. 74, under Revenue Act
of 1928, as follows:
"'When shares of stock in a corporation are sold from
lots purchased at different dates and at dffferent prices
and the identity of the lots can not be determined, the
stock sold shall be charged against the earliest purchases
.of such stock. The excess of the amount realized on the
sale over cost or other basis of the stock will constitute
gain..
Applying this rule, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue assessed against Richard B. Turner for the year 1928,
a deficiency tax of $11,173.05 on account of gains from
his operations on the stock exchange in United Gas Improvement Co. stock. Upon a redetermination by the
Board of Tax Appeals, the Commissioner's action was
sustained. 26 B. T. A. 1204. The Court of Appeals reversed the Board's decision and directed it to enter a
new order in conformity with the court's opinion. 73
F. (2d) 9. Turner having died during the litigation, his
executor, Rankin, was substituted. Writs of certiorari
were granted in this case, and in Snyder v. Corlhmissioner,
decided this day, post, p. 134, in order to determine questions concerning the effect, validity, and applicability of
the regulation. The facts found by the Board were these:
In 1926, Turner received in distribution of his father's
estate $20,000 in bonds. Wishing to change his ;nheritance into stock, he opened a marginal account with a
stock broker; sold the bonds; and, with the proceeds as
margin, purchased, from time to time during that year,
an aggregate of 1,200 shares of United Gas Improvement
Company stock at a cost of $117,202.50. On this stock
the broker received for him, later in 1926, 300 shares as
a dividend. There were no further operations in 1926
or in 1927. His marginal 'account became active in 1928.

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
123

Opinion of the Court.

At the beginning of the year he was long 1,500 shares of
this stock; in May he sold 300 shares for $44,619 net; in
June, he bought 1,000 shares for $143,225; in October he
sold 500 shares for $73,865; and, in November, 500 shares
for $74,115. Thus, at the close of the year, he was long
1,200 shares.
In none of these transactions did the broker deliver to
Turner, or Turner to the broker, any stock certificate.
No specific certificate of stock was ever bought or sold by
the broker for Turner; and none was earmarked or allocated for him in any manner. The purchases and sales
affecting his account were made through the medium of
street certificates handled by the broker; and the transactions were evidenced solely by debits and credits in his
account on the broker's books. Turner first learned these
facts after the deficiency assessment. He had always intended to retain ownership on margin of 1,200 shares of
the stock, since he had faith in the company and desired
to hold them in lieu of the bonds which he had received
from the estate of his father. To his business associates,
who acted for him in giving orders to the broker, he had
made it plain that the 1,200 shares were in the nature of
a permanent commitment on his part. An employee of
the broker understood that the decedent desired to retain
1,200,shares- of the stock to take the place of the bonds
which he had received from his father.
On the above facts the Board concluded, as had the
Commissioner, that it was impossible to determine the
identity of the lots purchased and sold; and that, consequently, the "First-in, first-out" regulation should be applied. In reversing that order the Court of Appeals said:
"We think the petitioner's [Turner's] communication
to his broker of his intention to hold the 1,200 shares first
purchased as an investment was in effect an order to his
broker not to sell those shares, and when, two years later,

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

he ordered the broker to make two sales in lots of 500
shares each, they were, conformably with the original
instructions, the 1,000 shares last purchased. The petitioner's instructions excluding from sale the shares first
purchased were in effect an identification of the shares
later sold as those last purchased.
"While the petitioner, in identifying his shares, might
have been more, specific in his instructions to his broker,
those he gave stand uncontradicted; indeed, they have
not been questined. We think they were enough to take
the case out of the rule and that, in consequence, the deficiency tax in issue is invalid to the extent that it is
based on gains made in sales of U. G. I. shares reckoned
on the purchase price of the original 1,200 shares."
First. The Commissioner contends that Turner's dommunication to his broker of his intention to keep 1,200
shares of United Gas Improvement Co. stock was ineffective to identify the shares to be sold, because, from
the. very nature of these marginal operations, the shaires
were incapable of identification by the broker or anyone.
else. The basis for this contention is the facts that in
such transactions no certificate is issued in the name of
the customer, or earmarked for or otherwise allocated to
him; that all certificates are in the nae of the broker
or street names; and that all certificates for stock of the
same kind are commingled and held by the broker for
the common benefit of all dealing in that particular stock.
The fallacy of this argument lies in the assumption that
shares of stock can be identified only through stock certificates. It is true that certificates provide the ordinary
means of identification. But it is not true that they are
the only possible means. Compare Richardson v. Shaw,
209 U. S. 365; Gorman v. Littlefield, 229 U. S. 19; Duel
v. Hollins, 241 U. S. 523. Particularly is this so when,
as here,- the thing to be established is the allocation of
lots sold to lots purchased at different dates and different

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
123

Opinion of the Court.

prices.2 The required identification is satisfied if the
margin trader has, through his broker, designated the securities to be sold as those purchased on a particular
date and at a particular price. It is only when such a
designation was not made at the time of the sale, or is
not shown, that the "First-in, first-out" rule is to he
applied.3
Second. The validity of the regulation, thus construed,
cannot seriously be questioned. The contention advanced
by the taxpayers, both here and in the companion case of
Snyder v. Helvering, that the regulation, as applied to
marginal transactions, is invalid under the Fifth Amendment, because it creates a conclusive presumption, must
rest wholly on the assumption that the shares traded on
margin are incapable of identification. Since that assumption is erroneous, it is clear that no conclusive presumption is established. It is, at most, the burden of
proof that is affected. For the margin trader, while being
required to establish the identity of the shares "n order
to avoid the "First-in, first-out" rule, is left free to introduce any relevant evidence. Nor is he arbitrarily deprived of any of the important attributes of ownership,
such as the "right to decide which stock he is going to
'The original regulation, Art. 4, 60, Regulation No. 33 (Revised), read, "When stock is sold from lots purchased at different
times and at different prices and the identity of the lots can not be
determined as to the dates of purchase, the stock sold shall be
charged against the earliest purchases of such stock." It has been
suggested that, "Under the language quoted from Regulations 33,
["as to the dates of purchase," omitted in subsequent regulations]
it might be argued that the identification intended could have been
accomplished merely by recording 'the dates of purchase,' rather
than by requiring physical identification of the certificates." Wilkins,
Identity of Marginal Transactions, Int. Rev. News, v. 4, no. 7, p. 5
(1931).
"Compare Howbert v. Penrose, 38 F. (2d) 577; Skinner v. Eaton,
45 F. (2d) 568; Snyder v. Commissioner, 54 F. (2d) 57; Commissioner v. Merchants' & Manufacturers'Ins. Co., 72 F. (2d) 408.

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

sell." Indeed it is conceded, at least by the taxpayer in
this case, that the regulation, as we now interpret it, "provides a useful and reasonable rule for ascertaining what
stock was sold in cases where there is no proof, or lack of
satisfactory proof, of the fact."
Third. If the facts found by the Board of Tax Appeals
had been what the Court of Appeals assumed them to be,
there would have been such an identification of shares
sold with shares purchased as to preclude the Commissioner from applying the "First-in, first-out" rule. The
Court of Appeals assumed that, "What Turner did in this
case, acting and speaking through his attorney, was to
communicate to his broker his intention to hold for investment the shares of U. G. I. he originally purchased."
The facts found by the Board of Tax Appeals do not bear
out this assumption of the court. The Board's findings
were that, "The decedent [Turner] always intended to
retain the ownership on margin of 1,200 shares of the
United Gas Improvement Co. stock "; and that, "An employee of the broker understood . . .that the decedent.
desired to retain 1,200 shares to take the place of the
bonds which he had received from his father." The difference between the Board's findings and the court's statement of the facts is obviously vital. The court held that
Turner's communication of his intention "was in effect
an order to his broker not to sell those shares "; that
"when, two years later, he ordered the broker to make
two sales in lots of 500 shares each, they were, conformably to the original instructions, the 1,000 shares last purchased." But if the employee was told, as the Board
found, merely that Turner "desired to retain 1,200 shares
[of the U. G. I. stock] to take the place of the bonds which
he had received from his father," he would naturally believe that so long as any 1,200 shares of the stock were
retained, it was immaterial to which of the lots the sales
in 1928 were attributed; and hence there was no identi-

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
123

Opinion of the Court.

fication. Thus it was only by departing fro the facts
as found by the Board of Tax Appeals that the court
found justification for reversing the Board's decision.
Fourth. The Court of Appeals is without power, on
review of proceedings of the Board of Tax Appeals, to
make any findings of fact. "The Board of Tax Appeals
is not a court. It is an executive or admiinistrative board,
upon the decision of which the parties are given an opportunity to base a petition for review to the courts after
the administrative inquiry of the Board has been had and
decided." Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279
U. S. 716, 725. The function of the court is to decide
whether the correct rule of law was applied to the facts
found; and whether there was substantial evidence before
the Board to support the findings made. See Phillips v.
Commissioner, 283 U. S. 589, 599, 600; Burnet v. Leininger, 285 U. S. 136, 138; Old Mission.PortlandCement Co.
v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 289, 294.4 Unless the finding of
the Board involves a mixed question of lav and fact, the
court may not properly substitute its own judgment for
that of the Board.' - If the Board has failed to make an
essential finding and the record on reView is insufficient to
provide the basis for a final determination, .the proper
procedure is to remand the case for further proceedings
before the Board. Compare :Felveringv. Taylor, 293 U. S.
507; Murphy Oil Co. v. Burnet, 287 U. S. 299, 308.6 And
'Compare Tracy v. Commissioner, 53 F. (2d) 575, 578-9; Slayt'on
v. Commissioner, 76 F. (2d) 497; Heywood Boot & Shoe Co. v. Commissioner, 76 F. (2d) 586.
' Compara Bishoff v. Commissioner, 27 F. (2d) 91, 92; Washburn v.
Commissioner, 51 F. (2d) 949, 951; Tricoat v. Helvering, 68 F. (2d)
280, 285.
' Compare Royal Packing Co. v. Commissioner, 22 F. (2d) 536,
538; Commissioner v. Langwell Real Estate Corp., 47 F. (2d) 841,
842; Independent I. & C. Storage Co. v. Commissioner, 50 F. (2d)
31, 33; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Commissioner, 52 F. (2d)

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

the same procedure is appropriate even when the findings omitted by the Board might be supplied from examination of the record.7
Fifth. The Court of Appeals did not comment on the
difference between the Board's findings and its own statement of the facts. Apparently it assumed that there was
no difference; and reversed the Board's order, believing
that it rested upon an erroneous ruling. of law. For the
court said that the Board made its determination "on the
theory that the U. G.1J. stock, which from time to, time
he [Turner] purchased on margin and later sold, could
be identified only by certificates; that as no certificates
for shares were ever in his name, the shares sold could not
be identified as shares purchased in any particular lot or
at any particular time or price, and, accordingly, charged
the shares sold against those earliest purchased within the
'First in, first out' rule."
There is nothing in the opinion of the Board to indicate
that its decision was based upon the "theory" stated by
the court. There is nothing in the record to indicate that
any such contention had been made by the Government
before the Board; and Turner's petition for review by the
Court of Appeals did not claim that the Board had acted
upon that "theory."8 But even if the Board's decision
372, 379; Houston v. Commissioner, 53 F. (2d) 445; Underwood v.
Commissioner, 56 F. (2d) 67, 73; Eau Claire Book; & Stationery Co.
v. Commissioner, 65 F. (2d) 125, 126.
Compare Kendrick Coal & Dock Co. v. Commissioner, 29 F. (2d)
559, 564; Francisco Sugar Co. v. Commissioner, 47 F. (2d) 555, 558;
Belridge Oil Co. v. Helvering, 69 F. (2d) 432.
'The Solicitor General stated in his petition to this Court for certiorari, that the question presented was "whether shares of stock
held on margin are capable of identification so that a taxpayer selling part of his holdings may select, as his basis for determining gain
or loss, the cost of any particular lot "; and counsel for the Government 'may have contended in the Court of Appeals, as he did here
tha. such identification is impossible. It is also true that the Boare

HELVERING v. RANKIN.
123

Opinion of the Court.

had been based on an erroneous rule of law, that would
not have justified its reversal, if the findings of fact,
governed by the correct rule of law, were sufficient to
sustain the decision and had substantial support in the
evidence.'
Sixth. The Court of Appeals did not explicitly hold
that the Board's finding as to Turner's communication to
his broker was without substantial support in the evidence. The court, in its opinion, does state that, "The
*evidence shows conclusively that Turner was sentimental
about keeping the original 1,200 shares as an inheritance
from his father; that his 'intention' was to retain as an
investment the shares originally purchased and sell in
speculation the shares more recently acquired." It does
not state that the evidence was equally conclusive as to
the communication to the broker of this exact intention.
There was, it is true, testimony to the effect that "from
the very'beginning West & Company knew Mr. Turner's
intentions and knew he was keeping the first purchase
of 1,200 shares"; and the failure of the Board so to find,
was assigned as error by the taxpayer in his petition for
review. But there was also testimony showing that Turner, during 1928, traded heavily in 20 other issues of
stock. The Court of Appeals did not consider whether,
in view of this and other evidence, the Board might reasonably have concluded that the testimony as to the
broker's knowledge of Turner's intention was not entirely
accurate, aWd that the broker's only clear understanding
of Tax Appeals in other cases has approved the rule for which the
Government is now contending. See Stryker v. Commissioner, 21
B. T. A. 561; Leng v. Commissioner, 22 B. T. A. 149; Seelye v.
Commissioner, 29 B. T. A. 695; compare Kelchner v. Commissioner,
31 B. T. A. 262.
'Compare Lewis-Hall Iron Works v. Blair, 57 App. D. 0. 364; 23
F. (2d) 972, 974-5;Hurwitz v. Commissioner, 45 F. (2d) 780,781;
Dickey v. Burnet, 56 F. (2d) 917, 918.

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

of Turner's intention was that, throughout his extensive
trading, 1,200 shares of United States Gas Improvement
Co. stock were to remain in his account. Since this question was not considered in the court below nor argued
here, the case must be remanded to the Court of Appeals
for further consideration.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE thinks that the judgment of the
Court of Appeals should be reversed and the order of the
Board of Tax Appeals affirmed, on the grounds that the
petitioner failed to show that the particular shares sold
were capable of identification with respect to the date
of their purchase, and that they could not be identified
merely by designating them to the broker as the shares
to be sold.
SNYDER v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE TCIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 663. Argued March 15, 1935.-Decided April 29, 1935.
1. Shares traded in on margin are capable of identification for the
purposes of the "First-in, first-out" rule of the Treasury (Reg.
No. 74, Art. 58) but the mere intention of the trader to sell
particular shares, without further designation, does not constitute
sufficient identification. Helvering v. Rankin, ante, p. 123. P. 137.
2. A person who devotes no substantial part of his business day to
stock transactions; who is not a trader on the exchange making a
living in buying and selling securities; but who deals merely with
the object of increasing, as far as his margin will permit, his
holdings of a particular stock carried for his account by his brokers,
is not engaged in market operations as a trade or business within
the meaning of § 22 of the Revenue Act of 1928. P. 137.

