OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Statement of the Case.

295 U. S.

W. B. WORTHEN CO., TRUSTEE, Er AL. v. KAVANAUGH, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKIANSAS.

No. 556.

Argued March 7, 1935.-Decided April 1, 1935.

Several years after negotiable bonds secured by a mortgage of benefit
assessments had been issued by a municipal improvement district,
statutes were passed which greatly diminished the remedies for
their security provided by law at the time of their issuance, viz:
The time within which an assessment might be foreclosed and the
assessed land sold for default in payment of the assessment was
enlarged from approximately 65 days to at least 2
years, and
it might be much longer; provisions for adding a penalty of 20%,
as well as costs and attorneys' fees, were altered by omitting the
costs and attorneys' fees and reducing the penalty to 3%; a provision allowing the purchaser at foreclosure sale to go into possession upon confirmation of the sale and keep the rents and profits
during the years allowed for redemption was repealed, so that the
possession of the delinquent owner might remain for another four
years unaffected by the sale. The mortgagee was thus left for at
least 6 years without an effective remedy and there would be no
enforcible obligation in the meantime to pay instaIments of principal or even accruing coupons. Held in violation of the contract
clause of the Constitution. Home Bldg. & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell,
290 U. S. 398, distinguished; W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292
U. S. 426, followed. P. 60.
189 Ark. 723; 75 S. W. (2d) 62, reversed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree in a suit to
foreclose benefit assessments on the lots in a public improvement district.. The assessments were mortgaged
as security for negotiable bonds issued by the Improvement District to pay for the improvements; and the suit
was brought by the mortgage trustee and some of the
bondholders. Tle decree appealed from was limited by
recent statutes which were attacked as unconstitutional.

WORTHEN CO. v. KAVANAUGH.
56

57

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. W. Dobyns, with whom Messrs. George B. Rose,
J. F. Loughborough, and A. F. House were on the brief,
for appellants.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JusTIcE CAmaozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Municipal Improvement Districts organized under the
laws of Arkansas are empowered to issue bonds and to
mortgage benefit assessments as security therefor. Street
Improvement District, No. 513, of Little Rock, Arkansas,
acted under the power thus conferred. On July 1, 1930,
it issued bonds; payable to bearer, in the amount of
$31,000, and made a mortgage to a firm of bankers as
trustee for the bondholders. Accompanying the mortgage was a copy of the assessment of benefits stating in
detail the amount of benefits assessed against each piece
of property within the improvement district. Some of
the bonds were in default on January 1, 1934, for nonpayment of principal and interest. This suit was brought
by the trustee and also by representative bondholders io
foreclose the assessments upon the lots of delinquent
owners and for other relief. The right to maintain the
suit is undisputed. The controversy hinges upon the
terms of the decree.
At the execution of the bonds and mortgages the statutes of Arkansas contained provisions well planned to
make these benefit assessments an acceptable security.
Under the statutes then in force, lot owners had thirty
days for payment of assessments, the time to run from
the date of a notice required to be published by the
collector. Crawford & Moses' Digest, § 5671. If payment was not made within that time, the collector, was

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

to add a penalty of twenty per cent, and make immediate
return of delinquents to the Board of Commissioners.
§ 5673. The duty was then imposed upon the Commissioners to bring foreclosure suits at once. § 5674. In case'
-of personal service, the defendant was to be required to
appear and respond within five days after service. § 5678.
The decree when granted was to add to the assessment
the twenty per cent penalty, costs, and attorneys' fees.
§ 5678. In case of constructive service, publication was
to be completed within fifteen days, the cause was to be
made ready for hearing within fifteen days thereafter,
and a decree was to be rendered as in case of actual service. § 5679. If the sum adjudged was not paid within
ten days, the property was to be sold upon twenty days
notice. § 5684. The property owner was given time to
redeem upon payment of the purchase price, with interest
at ten per cent if the land had a rental value, and if it had
none, then with interest at twenty per cent. § 5644.
The time for redemption was either two years or five,
there being uncertainty in that respect as to the meaning
of the statute. In any event, the purchaser was to be let
into possession at once upon- the approval of the sale, and
was not to be accountable for rents upon redemption.
§ 5642. If there was an appeal from the decree, the
Supreme Court was to advance the cause upon its docket,
and give a hearing and decision at as early a date as
practicable. § 5686. The transcript was to be filed in
the office of the clerk within twenty days after the rendering of the decree appealed from (§ 5687), and no
appeal was to be prosecuted if that condition was not
fulfilled. § 5689.
In March, 1933, the legislature of Arkansas passed
three acts (Nos. 278, 252, and 129), which made over the
whole plan to enforce the payment of assessmernts.
Under Act 278, the time for payment after notice was
enlarged from thirty days to ninety; the penalty was

WORTHEN CO. v. KAVANAUGH.
56

59

Opinion of the Court.

reduced from twenty per cent to three per cent; the retuin
of the delinquent list, which till. then had'to be made
forthwith, was to be withheld for another ninety days;
the time to appear and answer after personal service,
which had formerly been five days, was changed to, six
months; if service was constructive, there was to be p'ublication for six months (instead of fifteen days), and another six months was to elapse before the.cause was to be
heard. The decree when rendered was to give still another twelve months for payment (instead of ten days as
theretofore) and an additional six months after the new
default before the property could be sold. There were
to be no costs or attorneys' fees, and only a three 'per cent
penalty. There was also a repeal df the provisions for,
the expediting of appeals. Under Act 252, the time for
redemption was fixed at four years from the sale, and the
rate of interest (formerly 10% or 20%) was reduced to
6%, the statute reciting that, the law previously in force
did not provide an adequate period of redemption from
land sales for delinquent taxes in municipal improvement
districts. Finally, under Act 129, there was a repeal of
§ 5642, under which a purchaser had been. given the right
to go into possession-during the term allowed for redemption and to hold such possession without accountability
for rents. Coupled with the repeal was the declaration of
an emergency, which was stated to endanger the peace,
health and safety of a multitude of citizens.
Upon the hearing of the foreclosure suit the trustee and
the bbndholders contested the validity bf these statutory
changes, and demanded a decree in accordance with the
law theretofore in force. The changes Were attacked as
an unconstitutional impairment of the obligation of contract (United States Constitution, Art. 1, § 10), as well
as upon other grounds. The validity of the new acts was
upheld by the Chancery Court, and thereafter on appeal
by the Supreme Court of the state. 189 Ark. 723; 75

60.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

S. W. (2d) 62. Cf. Sewer Improvement District,No. 1,
v. Delinquent Lands, 188 Ark. 738; 68 S. W. (2d) 80.
Three judges dissented. The case is here upon appeal.
Judicial Code, § 237; 28 U. S. C. § 344.
To know the obligation of a contract we look to the
laws in force at its making. Sturges v. Crowninshield,4
Wheat. 122, 197; Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 429. In the books there is much talk
about distinctions between changes of the substance of
the contract and changes of the remedy. Von Hoffman
v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535; Louisiana v. New Orleans, 102
U. S. 203; Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U. S. 118; cf. Home
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra, at pp. 429, 434,
where the cases are assembled. The dividing line is at
times obscure. There is no need for the purposes of this
case to'plot it on the legal map. Not even changes of the
remedy may be pressed so far as to cut down the security
of a mortgage without moderation or reason or in a spirit
of oppression. Even when the public welfare is invoked
as an excuse, these bounds must be respected. W. B.
Worthen Co. v. Thomas, 292 U. S. 426, 433, distinguishing
Home Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra. We
state the outermost limits only. In stating them we do
not exclude the possibility that the bounds are even narrower. The case does not call for definition more precise. A catalogue of the changes imposed upon this
mortgage must lead to the conviction that the framers of
the amendments have put restraint aside. With studied
indifference to the interests of the mortgagee or to his
appropriate protection they have taken from the mortgage the quality of an acceptable investment for a
rational investor.
Under the statutes in force at the making of the contract, the property owner was spurred by every motive
of self-interest to pay his assessments if he could, and to
pay them without delay. Under the present statutes he

WORTHEN CO. v. KAVANAUGH.
56

Opinion of the Court.

has every incentive to refuse to pay a dollar, either for
interest or for principal. The interval between default
in payment and a sale in the foreclosure suit was approximately sixty-five days under the practice formerly prevailing, unless there was service by publication or unless
a defense was interposed, in which events the time would
be a little longer. The interval between default and sale
under the amendatory acts is at least two and a half
years, and may be a good deal more. The earlier statutes
imposed a penalty of twenty per cent as well as costs
and attorneys' fees. The later ones drop the provision
for costs and attorneys' fees, and reduce the penalty to
three per cent. The changes do not end, however, with
the rendition of the judgment and the sale thereunder.
Under the earlier law the purchaser, who was likely to
be the plaintiff mortgagee, could go into possession upon
the confirmation of the sale, and keep the rents and
profits during the years allowable for redemption. Today
this privilege is withdrawn, and for another four years
the possession of the delinquent owner is unaffected by
the sale. A minimum of six and a half years is thus the
total period during which the holder of the mortgage is
without an effective remedy. There is no enforcible obligation in the interval to pay instalments of the principal
or even the accruing coupons. The case is not one in
which the Chancellor has intervened, either with or without the permission of a statute, to halt the oppressive
enforcement of a mortgage by putting off the day of sale
or erltry for a reasonable time upon compliance by the
debtor with reasonable conditions. Relief is not condition d upon payment of interest and taxes or the rental
value of the premises. The case is one of postponement
for a term of many years with undisturbed possession for
the debtor and without a dollar for the creditor. There
ig not even a requirement that the debtor shall satisfy
the court of his inability to pay.

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Whether one or more of the changes effected by these
statutes would be reasonable and valid if separated from
the others, there is no occasion to consider. A state is
free to regulate the procedure in its courts even with
reference to contracts already made (Bronson v. Kinzie,
1 How. 311), and moderate extensions of the time for
pleading or for trial will ordinarily fall within the power
so reserved. A different situation is presented when extensions are so piled up as to make the remedy a shadow.
Penniman's Cae, 103 U. S. 714, 720; Oshkosh Waterworks -Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S. 437; Henley v. Myers,
215 U. S. 373, 385; National Surety Co. v. Architectural
Decorating Co., 226 U. S. 276. What controls our judgment at such times is the underlying reality rather than
the form or label. The changes of remedy now challenged as invalid are to be viewed in combination, with
the cumulative significance that each imparts to .all. So
viewed they are seen to be an oppressive and unnecessary destruction of nearly all the incidents that give
attractiveness and value to collateral security.
The point is made in the opinion of the court below
that the amendment denying to a purchaser the privilege
of possession during the period for redemption does not
modify the power of the Chancellor to appoint a receiver
of the rents during the pendency of a suit if the value
of the property is so low as to make the security precarious. This is small comfort for an investor who has
put his money into a mortgage in the expectation of
receiving a return on his investment. If the value of the
property is less than the assessment, a receiver will hold
the rents to apply upon the judgment in the event of a
deficiency, and will not presently disburse them except
for necessary expenses. Booth v. Clark, 17 How. 322,
331; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 203, 218; Grant v. Phoenix
Insurance Co., 106 U. S. 429. 431; Freedman's Saving &

WORTHEN CO. v. KAVANAUGH.
56

Opinion of the Court.

Trust Co. v. Shepherd, 127 U. S. 494; Union Bank of
Chicago v. Kansas Citj Bank, 136 U. S. 223, 236; Porter
v. Sabin, 149 U. S. 473, 479. If the value of the property
is greater than the assessment, the delinquent owner will.
keep the rents, for there will then be no receiver; and the
mortgagee must wait until the period for redemption
has expired. Active bidding at the sale is made virtually
impossible. The buyer, almost of necessity, will be the
mortgagee himself, who may offset the price against the
debt. Strangers will not bid when four years must go
by before they can be let into possession and have a
return on what they pay.
Upholders of the challenged acts appeal to the authority of Home Building& Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, supra,the
case of the Minnesota moratorium. There for a maximum term of two years, but in no event beyond the then
existing emergency, a court was empowered, if there was
a proper showing of necessity, to stay the foreclosure of
a mortgage, but only upon prescribed conditions. "The
mortgagor during the extended period is not ousted from
possession but he must pay the rental value of the premises as ascertained in judicial proceedings and this amount
is applied to the carrying of the property and to interest
upon the indebtedness." 290 U. S. at p. 445. None of
these restrictions, nor anything approaching them, is
present in this case. There has been not even an attempt
to assimilate what was done by this decree to the discretionary action of a Chancellor in subjecting an equitable
remedy to an equitable condition. Not Blaisdell's case,
but Worthen's (W. B. Worthen Co. v. Thomas, supra),
supplies the applicable rule.
The decree is reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

Reversed.

