100

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Counsel for Parties.

295 U S.

suit (No. 659) was begun in 1925, it does not appear that
any proceedings beyond the filing of the petition were
taken until 1929. There was no interference with the
custody of the federal court. Heidritterv. Elizabeth OilCloth Co., 112 U. S. 294, 304, 305. Compare Shields v.
Coleman, 157 U. S. 168, 178,179; Zimmerman v. So Relle,
80 Fed. 417, 420; Mathis v. Ligon, 39 F. (2d) 455, 456.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
WILSHIRE OIL CO., INC. ET AL. v. UNITED STATES
ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 858. Briefs filed pursuant to order of April 9, 1935.--Decided

April 29, 1935.
1. Questions certified to this Court should be aptly and definitely
stated. P. 102.
2. Upon an interlocutory appeal presenting the question whether
the District Court abused its discretion in granting an interlocutory
injunction, the Circuit Court of Appeals is not bound to decid'e
important constitutional questions raised by the bill, as to whi-h
it is in doubt, in advance of determination by the District Court
of the facts of the case to which the challenged statute is sought
to be applied. Id.
3. This Court should not undertake to determine the constitutionality
of a federal statute-upon certified questions as presented in this
case; on an interlocutory appeal, which would require ordering up
the entire record and involve unnecessary delay in the final determination of the case. Id.
Certificate dismissed.

On a certification of, questions from the Circuit Court
of. Appeals. For opinion of the District Court granting
an -interloclitory injunction, see 9 F. Supp. 396'
Messrs. Robert B. Murphey and Win. L. Murphey
were on the brief for Wilshire Oil Co. et al.

WILSHIRE OIL CO. v. U. S.
100

Per Curiam.

Solicitor General Reed, Assistant Attorney General
Stephens, and Messrs. Carl McFarland and M. S. Huberman were on the brief for the United States et al.
PER CURIAM.

The Circuit Court of Appeals has certified to this Court
the following questions:
"(1) Are the standards controlling the production of
petroleum in the United States, which production affects
(a) interstate commerce in petroleum, and (b) the national security and defense by prevention of waste of the
natural resources of petroleum essential for the creation
of power in the instruments used in such defense and in
maintaining such security, sufficiently stated in the National Industrial Recovery Act to constitute legislation
as a basis for the administrative regulation of such production?
"(2) Does the attempted creation of a code of fair competition for the petroleum industry under the provisions
of Section 3 of Title I of the Natibnal Industrial Rec6very
Act, which code establishes definite and appropriate
standards for the regulation of production of petroleum
affecting interstate c6mmerce and for preventing its waste
as a natural resource contributing to the national defense
and security, and authorizes administrative orders limiting the production of the individual producers to anamount less than they otherwise would be entitled to
produce. constitute the exercise of a. legislative function
which the Congress cannot delegate?"
The certificate, dated April 5, 1935, states that certain
corporations engaged in the production of petroleum in
California have appealed from an order of the District
Court granting a preliminary injunction restraining them
from producing crude petroleum from their respective
wells in excess of amounts allocated by quotas and operating schedules ordered by the Administrator of the Code

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Per Curiam.

295 U. S.

of Fair Competition for the Petroleum Industry. This
Court, by its order of April 9, 1935, afforded opportunity
to counsel to file briefs upon the question whether the described appeal presents any question other than whether
the District Court committed an abuse of discretion in
granting an interlocutory injunction, referring to Alabama v. United State, 279 U. S. 229, and other decisions
of this court. Counsel for the respective parties have
filed briefs accordingly.
Meanwhile the Circuit Court of Appeals has amended
its certificate so as to state that the appealing defendants
had moved in 'the District Court to dismiss the bill of
complaint upon the ground that it failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and had filed
an answer reserving that question; that the motion to
dismiss was denied and exception reserved at the same
time that the order for injunction was granted; that on
the hearing in the District Court the .question whether
the creation of the Petroleum Code by the Executive constituted an exercise of an unlawful delegation of legislative power had been argued and that the contention of
the appellants had been overruled. In that view the
amended certificate submits that, the certified questions
are addressed to a power of the Court of Appeals on an
appeal from the interlocutory order to decide the question as to the total absence of a cause of action.
This court is of opinion that, apart from the objectionable form of the certified questions, which are hot
aptly or definitely phrased, the question before the Court
of Appeals upon the appeal from the interlocutory order
is whether the District Court abused its discretion in
granting an interlocutory injunction; that the Court of
Appeals is not bound to decide, upon the allegations of
the bill, an important constitutional question, as to which
the Court of Appeals is in doubt, in advance of an appropriate determination by- the, District Court of the facts

UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.

103

Syllabus.

100

of the case to which the challenged statute is sought to
be applied.
Nor should this Court undertake to determine the constitutional validity of the statute upon such quiestions.
as those which have been certified. If this Court were to
deal Nith the case in its present stage it "vould be necessary to order up the entire record, so that the allegations
of the bill, and the case as presented to the District Court,.
could be properly considered. That course would merely
bring before this Court the interlocutory order and would
result in unnecessary delay in the final. determination
of the cause. The certificate is therefore
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES v. CREEK NATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 2.

Argued October 8, 1934.-Decided April 29, 1935.

1. By a treaty of 1833, and patent, the United States conveyed to
the Creek Tribe of Indians in fee simple a large tract of land.
By treaty of. 1866, the Creeks seceded half of the tract, the United
States undertaking to survey the dividing line and guaranteeing
the Creeks quiet possession of the other. part. The survey, made
in 1871, was recognized in an agreement between the Tribe and the
United States, Act of March 1, 1889. By error of the Land
Department, part of the unceded land was included (1872-73) in
the survey of a tract assigned to the Sac and Fox Indians undera treaty of 1867; and later, in carrying out an agreement with
those Indians, embodied in the Act of February 13, 1891, by which
their lands weie receded to the United States, the Creek lands so
surveyed with them were erroneously assumed to be part of the
Sac and Fox recession, and due to such error, were disposed of
under the last 'mentioned agreement, partly by allotments in sev-eralty to the Sacs and Foxes and partly by. sales to settlers; and
such dispusit.ns were effectuated by patents signed by the President. The United States.retained the proceeds of the dispusitions.
Held:

