654

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Syllabus.

295 U. S.

peals in the instant case mistakenly supposed), as our writ
was expressly limited to the question raised by the review of the deputy commissioner's finding as to the dependency of a claimant for compensation under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act. 285
U. S. 533. We decided simply that the finding of the
deputy commissioner, upon evidence, against the dependency of the claimant, was final, and accordingly we
directed the affirmance of his order. 286 U. S. 528. See
Voehl v. Indemnity Insurance Co., 288 U. S. 162, 166.
We think that the libel presented a case within the
jurisdiction of admiralty. The decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for
further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
BALTIMORE & CAROLINA LINE, INC. v. REDMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 178. Argued December 6, 1934.--Decided June 3, 1935.
1. The right to trial by jury preserved by the Seventh Amendment is
the right which existed under the English common law when the
Amendment was adopted. P. 657.
2. The Amendment not only preserves that right but exhibits a
studied purpose to protect it from indirect impairment through
possible enlargements of the power of regxamination existing under
the common law, and to that end declares that "no fact tried by a
jury shall be otherwise regxamined in any court of the United
States than according to the-rules of the common law." P. 657.
3. The aim of the Amendment is to preserve the substance of the
common-law right of trial by jury, as distinguished from mere matters of form or procedure, and particularly to retain the commonlaw distinction between the province of the court and that of the
jury, whereby, in the absence of express or implied consent to the
contrary, issues of law are to be resolved by the court and issues of
fact are to be determined by the jury under appropriate instructions
by the court. P. 657.

BALTIMORE & C. LINE v. REDMAN.
654

655

Counsel for Parties.

4. The practice of reserving questions of law arising in trials by jury
and of taking verdicts subject to the ultimate ruling on the questions reserved,--the reservation carrying with it authority to make
such ultimate disposition of the case as might be made essential by
the ruling under the reservation, such as entering a verdict or judgment for one party where the jury has given a verdict for the
other,--was well established when the Seventh Amendment was
adopted and therefore must be regarded as a part of the commonlaw rules to which resort must be had in testing and measuring the
right of trial by jury preserved and protected by that Amendment.
P. 659.
5. In an action in a federal court in .New Yoric to recover-damages
for personal injuries alleged to have been sustained by the plaintiff
through the defendant's negligence, the defendant, at the close of
the evidence, moved for dismissal of the complaint and also for a
directed verdict in its favor, basing both motions upon the ground
that the evidence was insufficient to support a verdict for plaintiff.
The court, as permitted by a New York statute and the commonlaw practice above mentioned, with the tacit consent of both parties,
reserved the questions of law presented by the motions and submitted the case to the jury subject to the court's opinion upon
them; and, after receiving a verdict for the plaintiff, it held the
evidence sufficient, overruled the motions, and entered judgment on
the verdict. Held that in reversing because as a matter of law the
evidence was insufficient to sustain the -Tekdict, the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals should embody a direction for a judgment of dismissal on the merits, and not for a new trial; and that
such judgment of dismissal would be thp equivalent of a judgment
for the defendant on a verdict directed in its favor. P. 661.
6. Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co., 228 U. S. 364, distinguished, and in part qualified. Pp. 657, 661.
70 F. (2d) 635, modified and affirmed.
CERTIORAWr, 293 U. S. 577, to review the reversal of a

judgment recovered by the plaintiff in an action for personal injuries.
Mr. George Whitefield Betts, Tr., with whom Mr. William R?. Meagher was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Martin A. Schenck, with whom Mr. Frederick R.
Graves was on the brief, for respondent.

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. Jusm~m Vw DuvAmNT

295 U. S

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
This was an action in a federal court in New York to
recover damages for personal injuries allegedly sustained
by the plaintiff through the defendant's negligence. The
issues were tried before. the court and a jury. At the
conclusion of the evidence the defendant moved for a dislnissal of the complaint because the evidence was insufficient to support a verdict for the plair~tiff, and also moved
for a directed verdict in its favor on the same ground.
The court reserved its decision on both motions, submitted
the case to the jury subject to its opinion on the questions reserved, and received from the jury a verdict for
the plaintiff. No objection was made to the reservation
or this mode of proceeding. .Thereafter the court held
the evidence sufficient and the motions ill-grounded, and
accordingly entered a judgment for the plaintiff on the
verdict.
'The defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which held the-evidence insufficient and reversed
the judgment with a direction for a new trial.1 The
defendant urged that the direction be f6r a dismissal of
the complaint. But the court of appeals ruled that under2
our decision in Slocum v. New York Life Insurance Co.

the direction must be for a new trial. We granted a petition by the defendant for certiorari because of the last
ruling and at the same time denied a petition by the
plaintiff challenging the ruling on the insufficiency of the
evidence."
The Seventh Amendment to the Constitution prescribes:
"-In suits at coinmon law, where the value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury
270 F. (2d) 635.

228 IT.S. 364.
293 IT.S. 541, 577.

BALTIMORE & C. LINE v. REDMAN.
654

657

Opinion of the Court.

shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a jury shall be
otherwise regxamined in any court of the United States,
than according to the rules of the common law."
The right of trial by jury thus preserved is the right
which existed under the English common law when the
Amendment was adopted. The Amendment not only
preserves that right but discloses a studied purpose to
protect it from imdirect impairment through possible enlargements of the power of rexamination existing under
the common law, and to that end declares that ".no fact
tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court
of the United States than according to the rules of the
common law."
. The aim of the Amendment, as this Court has held, h
to preserve the substance of -the common-law right of trial
by jury, as distinguished from mere matters of form or
procedure, and particularly to retain the common-law distinction between the province of the court and that of the
jury, whereby, in the absence of express or implied consent to the contrary, issues of law are to be resolved by the
court and issues of fact are to be determined by the jury
under appropriate instructions by the court.'
In Slocum v. New York Life Insurance,Co. a jury trial
in a federal court resulted in a g.aeral verdict for. the
plaintiff over the defendant's request that a verdict for it
be directed. Judgment was entered on the verdict for the
plaintiff and the defendant obtained a review in the court
of appeals. That court examined the evidence, concluded
that it was insufficient to support the verdict, and on that
basis reversed the judgment given to the plaintiff on the
verdict, and directed that judgment be entered for the
defendant. A writ of certiorari then brought the case
here.. The question presented to us was whether, in the
'Walker v. New Mexiro & So. Pac. R. Co., 165 U. S. 593, 596;
Gasoline Products Co. v. Champlin Refining Co., 283 U. S. 494, 497499; Dimiclk v. &hiedt, 293 U. S. 474, 476, 485-486.

658

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

situation disclosed, the direction for a judgment for the
defendant was an infraction of the Seventh Amendment.
We held it was and that the direction should be for a new
trial.
It therefore is important to have in mind the situation
to which our ruling applied. In that case the defendant's
request for a directed verdict was denied without any
reservation of the question of the sufficiency of the evidence or of aiiy other matter; and the verdict for the
plaintiff was taken unconditionally, and not subject to the
court's opinion on the sufficiency of the evidence. A statute of the State wherein the case was tried made provision
for reserving questions of law arising on a request for a
directed verdict, but no reservation was made. The same
statute also provided that where a request for a directed
verdict was denied the party making the request could
have the evidence made part of the record and that, where
this was done, the trial court, as also the appellate court,
should be under a duty "to enter such judgment as shall
be warranted by the evidence." It was in conformity
with this part of the statute that the court of appeals
directed a judgment for the defendant.
We recognized that the state statute was applicable to
trials in the federal courts in so far as its application
would not effect an infraction of the Seventh Amendment,
but held that there had been an infraction in that case in
that under the pertindnt rules of the common law the
court of appeals could set aside the verdict for error of
law, such as the trial court's ruling respecting the sufficiency of the evidence, and direct a new trial, but could
not itself determine the issues of fact and direct a judgment for the defendant, for this would cut off the plaintiff's unwaived right to have the issues of fact determined
by a jury.
A very different situation is disclosed in the present
case. The trial court expressly reserved its ruling on the

BALTIMORE & C. LINE v. REDMAN..
654

659

Opinion of the Court.

defendant's motions to dismiss and for a directed verdict,
both of which were based on the asserted insufficiency of
the evidence to support a- verdict for the plaintiff.
Whether -the evidence was sufficient or otherwise was a
question of law to be resolved by the court. The verdict
for the plaintiff was taken pending t~e court's rulings on
the motions and subject to those rulings. No objection
was made to the reservation or this mode of proceeding,
and they must be regarded as having the tacit consent of
the parties. After the verdict was given the court considered the motions pursuant to the reservation, held the
evidence sufficient, and denied the motions.
The court of appeals held that the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict for the plaintiff; that the defendant's motion- for d-dlrected- verdict was accordingly
well taken; and therefore that the judgment for the plaintiff should be reversed. Thus far we think its decision
was right. The remaining question relates to the direction
which properly should be included in the judgment of
reversal.
At common law there was a well established practice of
reserving questions of law arising during trials by jury
and of taking verdicts subject to the ultimate ruling on
the questions reserved; and under this practice the reservation carried with it authority to make such ultimate
disposition of the case as might be madeessential by the
ruling under the reservation, such as non-suiting the
plaintiff where he had obtained a verdict, entering a ver-.
diet or judgment for one party where the jury had given
a verdict to the other, or making other essential

adjustments.'
' In Carleton v. Grffin, (1758) 1 Burrow's Rep. 549, a verdict for
plaintiff was taken subject to the court's opinion on questions of law,
which later on were ruled in favor of defendant, whereupon a judgment for I'hm was directed. Other early cases similarly recognized
and apphei the practice. Coppendale v. Bridgen, (1759) 2 Burrow's

660

OCTOBER TERM, 1934.
Opinion of the Court.

295 U. S.

Fragmentary references to the origin and basis of the
practice indicate that it came to be supported on the theory
that it gave better opportunity for considered rulings,
made new trials less frequent, and commanded such general approval that parties litigant assented to its application as' a matter of course. But whatever may have been
its origin or theoretical basis, it undoubtedly was well
established when the Seventh Amendment was adopted,
.and therefore must be regarded as a part of the commonlaw rules to which resort must be had in testing and
measuring the right of trial by jury as preserved and protected by that Amendment.
This Court has distinctly recognized that a federal court
may take a verdict subject to the opinion of the court on
a question of law,6 and in one case where a verdict for the
Rep. 814; Bird v. Randall, (1762) 3 Burrow's Rep. 1345; Price v.
Neal, (1762) 3 Burrow's Rep. 1354; Basset v. Thomas, (1763) 3
Burrow's Rep. 1441 , Timmins v. Rowlinson, (1765) 3 Burrow's Rep.
1603.
Law writers also have recognized it. 2 Tidd's Practice, (4th Am.
ed.) 900; Tidd's Practice, (London, 1837 ed.) 538, 539; Starkie on
Evidence, (10th Am. ed.) *809; 1 Archbold's King's Bench Practice,
188, 192; Thayer's Treatise on Evidence, 241.
Later English decisions not only show the practice but also illustrate various applications of it. In Treacher v. Hinton, (1821) 4
Barn. & Ald. 413, plaintiff was non-suited with liberty to move to
enter verdict in his favor, and on his motion such a verdict was
ordered entered as if given by the jury.. In Jewell v. Parr, (1853)
13 C. B. 909, a verdict was directed for defendant with leave to plaintiff to move to enter verdict for him if the court should be of opinion
there was not sufficient evidence to sustain the verdict for defendant; and on such a motion the court held the evidence insufficient and
directed entry of verdict for plaintiff. In Ryder v. Wombwell, (1868)
' L. R. 4 Exch. Cas. 32, a ferdict was taken for plaintiff with leave to
defendant to move to enter non-suit if the court should be of opinion
there was lack of evidence; -and on such a motion the evidence was
held insufficient and non-suit entered.
'Brent v. Chapman, 5 Cranch 358; Chinoweth v. Haskeii's Lessee,
3 Pet. 92, 94, 96, 98; Suydam v. Williamson, 20 How. 427, 434.

BALTIMORE & C. LINE v. REDMAN.
654

661.

Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff was thus taken has reversed the judgment given
on the verdict and directed a judgment for the defendant.'
Some of the States have statutes embodying the chief
features of the common-law practice which we have described. The State of New York, in which the trial was
had, has such a statute; and the trial court, in reserving
its decision on the motions which presented the question
of the sufficiency of the evidence, and in taking the verdict
of the jury subject to its opinion on that. question, conformed to that statute and the practice under it as approved by the Court of Appeals of the State.'
In view of the common-law practice and the related
state statute, we'reach the conclusion that the judgment
of reversal for the error in denying the motions shouldembody a direction for a judgment of dismissal on the
merits, and not for a new trial. Such a judgment of dismissal will be the equivalent of a judgment for the defendant on a verdict directed in its favor.
The court of appeals regarded the decision in Slocum v.
New York Life Insurance Co. as requiring that the direction be for a new trial. We already have pointed out the
differences between that case aid this. But it is true that
some parts of the opinion in that case give color to the
interpretation put on it by the court of appeals. In this
they go beyond the case then under consideration and
are not controlling. Not only ,so, but they must be
regarded as qualified by what is said in this opinion.
It results that the judgment of the court of appeals
should be modified by substituting a direction for a judgment of dismissal on the merits in place of the direction
for a new trial, and, as so niodified, should be affirmed.
Judgment modified and affirmed as modified.
Chinoweth v. Haskell's Lessee, supra.

'New York Civil Practice Act, §§ 459, 461; Bail v. New York, N.
H. & H. R. Co., 201 N. Y. 355; 94 N. E. 863; Dougherty v. Salt, 227
N.Y. 200, 203; 125 N. E. 94.

