OASES ADJUDGED
IN

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1976

NYQUIST, COMMISSIONER OF EDUCATION OF

NEW YORK,

ET AL.

v. MAUCLET

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURTS FOR THE
WESTERN AND EASTERN DISTRICTS OF NEW YORK

No. 76-208i Argued March 22, 1977-Decided June 13, 1977
New York statutory provision that bars certain resident aliens from state
financial assistance for higher education held to violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 7-12.
(a) State classifications based on alienage are "inherently suspect and
subject to close judicial scrutiny." Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S.
365, 372. P. 7.
(b) The statute discriminates against a class and is subject to
strict scrutiny since it is directed at aliens and only aliens are harmed
by it even though its bar against them is not absolute in that those
who have applied for citizenship or those not qualified to apply who
have filed statements of intent may participate in the assistance programs. Graham v. Richardson, supra; cf. Mathews v. Lucas, 427 U. S.
495, 504-505, n. 11. Pp. 7-9.
(c) Any incentive through the statute for an alien to become naturalized is not a proper state concern, since control over immigration and
naturalization is exclusively a federal function. P. 10.
(d) The naturalization incentive (even if that could be accepted,
arguendo, as a justification) or the further justification asserted by appellants, viz., that the financial assistance program is confined to actual
or potential voters, thus enhancing the educational level of the electorate, cannot be deemed adequate to support the statute's ban. If the

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

432 U. S.

encouragement of naturalization through such programs were adequate,
every discrimination against aliens could be similarly justified. And the
claimed interest in educating the electorate would not be frustrated by
including resident aliens in the assistance program. Pp. 10-12.
406 F. Supp. 1233, affirmed.
BLACKMUN,

J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which

BRENNAN,

WHITE, MARSHALL, and STEVENS, JJ., joined. BURGER, C. J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 12. POWELL, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in
which BURGER, C. J., and STEwART, J., joined, post, p. 15. PEHNQUIST,
J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which BURGER, C. J., joined, post, p. 17.

Judith A. Gordon, Assistant Attorney General of New York,
argued the cause for appellants. With her on the briefs were
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General, and Samuel A.
Hirshowitz,.First Assistant Attorney General.
Michael Davidson argued the cause for appellee Mauclet.
With him on the brief was Kevin Kennedy. Gary J.
Greenberg argued the cause and filed a brief 'for appellee
Rabinovitch.
MR. JusTicE BLACKMuN delivered the opinion of the Court.

New York, by statute, bars certain resident aliens from state
financial assistance for higher education. N. Y. Educ. Law
§ 661 (3) (McKinney Supp. 1976). This litigation presents a
constitutional challenge to that statute.

I
New York provides assistance, primarily in three forms,
to students pursuing higher education. The first type is the
Regents college scholarship. These are awarded to high
school graduates on the basis of performance in a competitive
examination. §§ 605 (1) and 670. Currently, in the usual
case, a recipient is entitled to $250 annually for four years of
study without regard to need. §§ 670 (2) and (3) (b).1 The
I There also are other special competitive awards: Regents professional
education in nursing scholarships, N. Y. Educ. Law §§ 605 (2) and 671

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET
1

Opinion of the Court

second and chief form of aid is the tuition assistance award.
These are noncompetitive; they are available to both graduate
and undergraduate students "enrolled in approved programs
and who demonstrate the ability to complete such courses."
§§ 604 (1) and 667 (1). The amount of the award depends
on both tuition and income. The ceiling on assistance was
$600, although it has been increased for undergraduates to
$1,500. §§ 667 (3) and (4). The third form of assistance is
the student loan. §§ 680-684. The loan is guaranteed by the
State; a borrower meeting certain income restrictions is entitled to favorable interest rates and generally to an interestfree grace period of at least nine months after he completes or
terminates his course of study. §§ 680, 682 (2) and (3).'
There are several general restrictions on eligibility for participation in any of these programs. § 661. For example,
there is a modest durational residency requirement. § 661
(5).1 The instant dispute, however, concerns only § 661 (3).
That subsection provides:
"Citizenship. An applicant (a) must be a citizen of
the United States, or (b) must have made application
(MeKinney Supp. 1976); Regents professional education in medicine or
dentistry scholarships, §§ 605 (3) and 672; Regents physician shortage
scholarships, §§ 605 (4) and 673; Regents war veteran scholarships,
§§ 605 (5) and 674; and Regents Cornell University scholarships, § 605 (6).
2 The loan program is largely subsidized by the Federal Government.
See 20 U. S. C. §§ 1071 to 1087-2 (1970 ed. and Supp. V). (In fiscal
1976 the federal expenditure for New York's loan program was
867,208,000 and the state contribution was $9,466,000. Brief for Appellants 8 n. * and 17 n. *.) Although it appears that federal administrators
have not lodged objections to the State's practice of disqualifying certain
resident aliens, see App. 82, the federal standards would make eligible for
assistance an alien student who "is in the United States for other than a
temporary purpose and intends to become a permanent resident thereof."
45 CFR § 1772 (a) (1976).
3This requirement is not the subject of challenge here. See Vlandis v.
Kline, 412 U. S. 441 (1973); Starns v. Malkerson, 401 U. S. 985 (1971),
aff'g 326 F. Supp. 234 (Minn. 1970).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

432 U. S.

to become a citizen, or (c) if not qualified for citizenship,
must submit a statement affirming intent to apply for
United States citizenship as soon as he has the qualifications, and must apply as soon as eligible for citizenship,
or (d) must be an individual of a class of refugees paroled by the attorney general of the United States under
his parole authority pertaining to the admission of aliens
to the United States."
The statute obviously serves to bar from the assistance
programs the participation of all aliens who do not satisfy its
terms. Since many aliens, such as those here on student
visas, may be precluded by federal law from establishing a
permanent residence in this country, see, e. g., 8 U. S. C. § 1101
(a) (15) (F) (i); 22 CFR § 41.45 (1976), the bar of § 661 (3)
is of practical significance only to resident aliens. The Court
has observed of this affected group: "Resident aliens, like
citizens, pay taxes, support the economy, serve in the Armed
Forces, and contribute in myriad other ways to our society."
In re Griffiths, 413 U. S.717, 722 (1973).
II
Appellee Jean-Marie Mauclet is a citizen of France and
has lived in New York since April 1969. He has been a permanent resident of the United States since November of that
year. He is married to a United States citizen and has a child
by that marriage. The child is also a United States citizen.
App. 49. Mauclet by affidavit stated: "Although I am presently qualified to apply for citizenship and intend to reside
4Section 661 (3) replaced former § 602 (2) of the State's Education
Law, in effect at the times appellees' complaints were filed. 1974 N. Y.
Laws, c. 942. Clause (d) was added after the commencement of the suits.
1975 N. Y. Laws, c. 663, § 1. Since clause (d) serves to make a class of
aliens eligible for aid without regard to citizenship or intent to apply for
citizenship, its inclusion serves to undermine the State's arguments as to
the purposes served by the first three clauses. See n. 13, infra.

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET

1

Opinion of the Court

permanently in the United States, I do not wish to relinquish
my French citizenship at this time." I Id., at 50. He applied
for a tuition assistance award to aid in meeting the expenses

of his graduate studies at the State University of New York
at Buffalo. Because of his refusal to apply for United States
citizenship, his application was. not processed. Id., at 49-50.
Appellee Alan Rabinovitch is a citizen of Canada. He was
admitted to this country in 1964 at the age of nine as a permanent resident alien. He is unmarried and, since his admission,
has lived in New York with his parents and a younger sister,
all of whom are Canadian citizens. He registered with Selective Service on his 18th birthday. He graduated in 1973
from the New York public school system. Id., at 68, 71. As
a result of a commendable performance on the competitive
Regents Qualifying Examinations, Rabinovitch was informed
that he was qualified for, and entitled to, a Regents college

scholarship and tuition assistance. He later was advised,
however, that the offer of the scholarship was withdrawn
since he intended to retain his Canadian citizenship. Id., at
69, 25. Rabinovitch entered Brooklyn College without financial aid from the State. He states that he "does not intend
to become a naturalized American, but . . . does intend to
continue to reside in New York." Id., at 65.
Mauclet and Rabinovitch each brought suit in United States
District Court (Mauclet in the Western District of New York
and Rabinovitch in the Eastern District), alleging that the
citizenship bar of § 661 (3) was unconstitutional. The same
three-judge court was convened for each of the cases. Subsequently, it was ordered that the cases be heard together.
App. 45. After cross motions for summary judgment, the
District Court in a unanimous opinion ruled in appellees'
favor. It held that § 661 (3) violated the Equal Protection
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in that the citizenship
5In order to become a United States citizen, Mauclet would be required

to renounce his French citizenship. 8 U.S.C. § 1448 (a).

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

432 U. S.

requirement served to discriminate unconstitutionally against
resident aliens. 406 F. Supp. 1233 (WDNY and EDNY
1976). Its enforcement was enjoined in separate judgments.
App. 103, 106.
Appellants-the various individuals and corporate entities
responsible for administering the State's educational assistance
programs-challenge this determination.' We noted probable
jurisdiction. 429 U. S. 917 (1976).
6 Other

courts also have held that discrimination against resident aliens

in the distribution of educational assistance is impermissible. See, e. g.,
Chapman v. Gerard, 456 F. 2d 577 (CA3 1972); Jagnandan v. Giles, 379
F. Supp. 1178 (ND Miss. 1974), appealed on damages and aff'd, 538 F. 2d
1166 (CA5 1976), cert. pending, No. 76-832.
7 Appellants also argue that ihe District Court should not have reached
the question of the applicability of § 661 (3) to the loan program because
appellee Rabinovitch, who alone challenged this aspect of the assistance
program, had not been denied a loan. Hence, appellants assert, he lacks
standing. Early in the litigation, however, Rabinovitch submitted an
unrebutted affidavit to the effect that he believed that he "may require
student loans to help cover the cost of" his education and that he was
"barred from receiving a student loan simply because of [his] status as an
alien." App. 71. Indeed, appellants conceded in the District Court that
any application from Rabinovitch for a loan would be refused because of
§ 661 (3). 406 F. Supp., at 1235. It is clear, therefore, that Art. III
adverseness existed between the parties and that the dispute is a concrete
one. The only obstacle to standing, under the circumstances, would arise
from prudential considerations. And we see no reason to postpone resolution of the dispute. Rabinovitch has been denied other forms of aid and
little is to be served by requiring him now to go through the formality of
submitting an application for a loan, in light of the certainty of its denial.
See Arlington Heights v. Metropolitan Housing Dev. Corp., 429 U. S. 252,
264 (1977). Until oral argument, appellants suggested no reason why the
loan program should differ from the other forms of assistance. Tr. of
Oral Arg. 7. In the absence of a more timely suggestion supporting
a distinction among the forms of aid, we think that nothing is to be gained
by adjudicating the validity of § 661 (3) with regard to only two of the
three primary assistance programs. After all, the single statutory proscription applies with equal force to all the programs.

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET
Opinion of the Court

III
The Court has ruled that classifications by a State that are
based on alienage are "inherently suspect and subject to close
judicial scrutiny." Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365,
372 (1971). See Examining Board v. Flores de Otero, 426

U. S. 572, 601-602 (1976); In re Griffiths, 413 U. S., at 721;
Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634, 642 (1973). In undertaking this scrutiny, "the governmental interest claimed to
justify the discrimination is to be carefully examined in order
to determine whether that interest is legitimate and sub-

stantial, and inquiry must be made whether the means
adopted to achieve the goal are necessary and precisely

drawn." Examining Board v. Flores de Otero, 426 U. S., at
605. See In re Griffiths, 413 U. S., at 721-722. Alienage
classifications by a State that do not withstand this stringent
examination cannot stand."
Appellants claim that § 661 (3) should not be subjected
to such strict scrutiny because it does not impose a classifica8

In Mathews v. Diaz, 426 U. S. 67 (1976), the Court applied relaxed
scrutiny in upholding the validity of a federal statute that conditioned an
alien's eligibility for participation in a federal medical insurance program
on the satisfaction of a durational residency requirement, but imposed no
similar burden on citizens. The appellants can draw no solace from the
case, however, because the Court was at pains to emphasize that Congress,
as an aspect of its broad power over immigration and naturalization, enjoys
rights to distinguish among aliens that are not shared by the States.
Id., at 84-87. See Hampton v. Mow Sun Wong, 426 U. S. 88, 100-101
(1976); De Canas v. Bica, 424 U. S. 351, 358 n. 6 (1976).
It is perhaps worthy of note that the Medicare program under
consideration in Diaz granted a permanent resident alien eligibility when
he had resided in the United States for five years. Five years' residence
is also the generally required period under federal law before an alien
may seek to be naturalized. 8 U. S. C. § 1427 (a). Yet, ironically, this
is precisely the point at which, in New York, a resident must petition for
naturalization or, irrespective of declared intent, lose his eligibility for
higher education assistance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

432 U. S.

tion based on alienage.9 Aliens who have applied for citizenship, or, if not qualified for it, who have filed a statement of
intent to apply as soon as they are eligible, are allowed to
participate in the assistance programs. Hence, it is said, the
statute distinguishes "only within the 'heterogeneous' class of
aliens" and "does not distinguish between citizens and aliens
vel non." Brief for Appellants 20.1' Only statutory classifications of the latter type, appellants assert, warrant strict
scrutiny.
Graham v. Richardson, supra, undermines appellants' position. In that case, the Court considered an Arizona statute
that imposed a durational residency requirement for welfare
benefits on aliens but not on citizens. Like the New York

statute challenged here, the Arizona statute served to discriminate only within the class of aliens: Aliens who met the
durational residency requirement were entitled to welfare
9 Appellants also seem to assert that strict scrutiny should not be applied because aid to education does not deny an alien "access to the necessities of life." Brief for Appellants 21. They are joined in this view by
TH, CHIEF JUSTICE in dissent. Suffice it to say, the statutory statement of
purpose for the aid programs reflects the State's contrary position:
"In a world of unmatched scientific progress and technological advance,
as well as of unparalleled danger to human freedom, learning has never
been more crucial to man's safety, progress and individual fulfillment.
In the state and nation higher education no longer is a luxury; it is a
necessity for strength, fulfillment and survival." 1961 N. Y. Laws, c. 389,

§ 1(a).
And, in any event, the Court noted in Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S.
365, 376 (1971), that classifications based on alienage "are inherently
suspect and are therefore subject to strict scrutiny whether or not a fundamental right is impaired."
:o The District Court dealt abruptly with appellants' contention:
"This argument defies logic. Those aliens who apply, or agree to apply
when eligible, for citizenship are relinquishing their alien status. Because
some aliens agree under the statute's coercion to change their status does
not alter the fact that the classification is based solely on alienage." 406
F. Supp., at 1235.

NYQUIST v. MAIUCLET
1

Opinion of the Court

benefits. The Court nonetheless subjected the statute to
strict scrutiny and held it unconstitutional. The important
points are that § 661 (3) is directed at aliens and that only
aliens are harmed by it. The fact that the statute is not an
absolute bar does not mean that it does not discriminate
against the class., Cf. Mathews v. Lucas, 427 U. S. 495,
504-505, n. 11 (1976); 12 Weber v. Aetna Casualty & Surety
Co., 406 U. S. 164, 169, 172 (1972).
Appellants also assert that there are adequate justifications
for § 661 (3). First, the section is said to offer an incentive
for aliens to become naturalized. Second, the restriction on
"IOur Brother REHNQUIST argues in dissent that strict scrutiny is
inappropriate because under § 661 (3) a resident alien can voluntarily
withdraw from disfavored status. But this aspect of the statute hardly
distinguishes our past decisions. By the logic of the dissenting opinion,
the suspect class for alienage would be defined to include at most only
those who have resided in this country for less than five years, since after
that time, if not before, resident aliens are generally eligible to become
citizens. 8 U. S. C. § 1427 (a). The Court has never suggested, however, that the suspect class is to be defined so narrowly. In fact, the
element of voluntariness in a resident alien's retention of alien status is a
recognized element in several of the Court's decisions. For example, the
Court acknowledged that In re Griffiths, 413 U. S. 717 (1973), involved an
appellant who was eligible for citizenship, but who had not filed a declaration of intention to become a citizen, and had "no present intention of
doing so." Id., 718 n. 1. And, insofar as the record revealed, nothing
precluded the appellees in Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634 (1973),
from applying for citizenship. Id., at 650 (REHNQUIST, J., dissenting).
MR. JusTicE REHNQUIST argued in dissent there, just as he does here

today, that strict scrutiny was inappropriate in those cases because there
was nothing to indicate that the aliens' status "cannot be changed by their
affirmative acts." Id., at 657. Nonetheless, the Court applied strict
scrutiny in the cases. We see no reason to depart from them now.
12 The footnote reads in part:
"That the statutory classifications challenged here discriminate among
illegitimate children does not mean, of course, that they are not also
properly described as discriminating between legitimate and illegitimate
children."

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
Opinion of the Court

432 U. S.

assistance to only those who are or will become eligible to
vote is tailored to the purpose of the assistance program,
namely, the enhancement of the educational level of the
electorate. Brief for Appellants 22-25. Both justifications
are claimed to be related to New York's interest in the preservation of its "political community." See Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 642-643, 647-649; Dunn v. Blumstein, 405
U. S. 330, 344 (1972).
The first purpose offered by the appellants, directed to what
they describe as some "degree of national affinity," Brief for
Appellants 18, however, is not a permissible one for a State.
Control over immigration and naturalization is entrusted exclusively to the Federal Government, and a State has no
power to interfere. U. S. Const., Art I, § 8, cl. 4. See
Mathews v. Diaz, 426 U. S. 67, 84-85 (1976); Graham v.
Richardson, 403 U. S., at 376-380; Takahashi v. Fish & Game
Comm'n, 334 U. S. 410, 419 (1948). But even if we accept,
arguendo, the validity of the proffered justifications, we find
them inadequate to support the ban."
:3 In support of the justifications offered for § 661 (3), appellants refer
to a statement of purpose in legislation adopted in 1961 that substantially
amended the State's aid programs. 1961 N. Y. Laws, c. 389, § 1. But
the statement speaks only in general terms of encouraging education so
as "to provide the broad range of leadership, inventive genius, and source
of economic and cultural growth for oncoming generations," § 1 (a), and
of developing fully a "reservoir of talent and future leadership," § 1 (c)purposes that would be served by extending aid to resident aliens as well
as to citizens-and hardly supports appellants in clear and unambiguous
terms. Moreover, the statutory discrimination against aliens with regard
to certain Regents scholarships dates from long before. 1920 N. Y.
Laws, c. 502, § 1. And the very 1961 legislation on which appellants rely
abolished the statutory disqualification of aliens in favor of an administrative rule. 1961 N. Y. Laws, c. 391, §§ 2 and 18. See also §§ 7, 14,
and 19. In fact, it appears that the state administrators of the aid
programs did not find the purposes in the 1961 legislation that appellants
urge, since between 1961 and 1969, when the precursor of § 661 (3) was

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET
Opinion of the Court

In Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S., at 642, the Court recognized that the State's interest "in establishing its own
form of government, and in limiting participation in that
government to those who are within 'the basic conception of a
political community'" might justify some consideration of
alienage. But as Sugarman makes quite clear, the Court had
in mind a State's historical and constitutional powers to define
the qualifications of voters, 14 or of "elective or important
nonelective" officials "who participate directly in the formulation, execution, or review of broad public policy." Id., at 647.
See id., at 648. In re Griffiths, decided the same day, reflects
the narrowness of the exception. In that case, despite a
recognition of the vital public and political role of attorneys,
the Court found invalid a state-court rule limiting the practice
of law to citizens. 413 U. S., at 729.
Certainly, the justifications for § 661 (3) offered by appellants sweep far beyond the confines of the exception defined in
Sugarman. If the encouragement of naturalization through
thdse programs were seen as adequate, then every discrimination against aliens could be similarly justified. The exception
would swallow the rule, Sugarman clearly does not tolerate
that result. Nor does the claimed interest in educating the
electorate provide a justification; although such education is
a laudable objective, it hardly would be frustrated by including resident aliens, as well as citizens, in the State's assistance
programs."
adopted, resident aliens were allowed to receive tuition assistance awards.
Brief
for Appellants 15.
14

See also Perkins v. Smith, 370 F. Supp. 134 (Md. 1974), summarily
aff'd, 426 U. S. 913 (1976).
Is Although the record does not reveal the number of aliens who are
disqualified by § 661 (3), there is a suggestion that the number may be
exceedingly small. See Brief for Appellee Mauclet 9 n. 4. Indeed, when
asked about the cost of including aliens, appellants conceded at oral
argument that "we may not be speaking about very much." Tr. of Oral

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER, C.

J., dissenting

432 U. S.

Resident aliens are obligated to pay their full share of the
taxes that support the assistance programs. There thus is no
real unfairness in allowing resident aliens an equal right to
participate in programs to which they contribute on an equal
basis. And although an alien may be barred from full involvement in the political arena, he may play a role-perhaps
even a leadership role-in other areas of import to the community. The State surely is not harmed by providing resident aliens the same educational opportunity it offers to
others.
Since we hold that the challenged statute violates the
Fourteenth Amendment's equal protection guarantee, we
need not reach appellees' claim that it also intrudes upon
Congress' comprehensive authority over immigration and
naturalization. See Graham v. Richardson,403 U. S., at 378;
Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S.33, 42 (1915).
The judgments of the District Court are affirmed.
It is so ordered.
MR.

G IEF JUSTICE BURGER, dissenting.

I join MR.

JUSTICE REHBNQUIST's

and MR. JUSTICE POWELL's

dissenting opinions, but I add this comment to point out yet
other significant differences between this case and our prior
cases involving alienage-based classifications.
With one exception, the prior cases upon which the Court
purports to rely involved statutes which prohibited aliens
from engaging in certain occupations or professions, thereby
impairing their ability to earn a livelihood. See, e. g., Examining Board v. Flores de Otero, 426 U. S.572 (1976) (Puerto
Arg. 6. Thus, it appears that the inclusion of resident aliens in the
assistance programs will have an insubstantial impact on the cost of the
programs. And, in any event, the suggestion that the State can favor
citizens over aliens in the distribution of benefits was largely rejected in
Grahamv. Richardson,supra.

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET
1

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

Rico statute permitted only United States citizens to practice as private civil engineers); In re Griffiths, 413 U. S.
717 (1973) (membership in state bar limited to citizens);
Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634 (1973) (participation
in State's competitive civil service limited to citizens);
Takahashiv. Fish& Game Comm'n, 334 U. S. 410 (1948) (state
statute denied fishing license to persons "ineligible to citizenship"); Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33 (1915) (state constitution
required employers to hire "not less than eighty (80) per cent
qualified electors or native-born citizens of the United
States"); Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356 (1886) (city
ordinance discriminatorily enforced against aliens so as to
prevent Chinese subjects, but not United States citizens, from
operating laundries within the city). The only other case
striking down a classification on the basis of alienage, Graham
v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365 (1971), involved the denial of
welfare benefits essential to sustain life for aliens, while needycitizens were given such benefits. The Court has noted elsewhere the crucial role which such benefits play in providing
the poor with "means to obtain essential food, clothing, housing, and medical care." Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U. S. 254, 264
(1970) (footnote omitted).
In this case the State is not seeking to deprive aliens of the
essential means of economic survival. Rather, pursuant to
its broad power to regulate its education system, the State has
chosen to provide some types of individuals-those it considers most likely to provide a long-range return to the local
and national community-certain added benefits to facilitate
participation in its system of higher education. The State is
certainly not preventing aliens from obtaining an education,
and indeed it is clear that appellees may attend New York
colleges and universities on an equal footing with citizens.
However, beyond that, the State has provided certain economic incentives to its own citizens to induce them to pursue
higher studies, which in the long run will be a benefit to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

432 U. S.

State. The State has not deemed such incentives as necessary or proper as to those aliens who are unwilling to declare
their commitment to the community in which they reside by
declaring their intent to acquire citizenship. Such simple
declaration is all that the statute requires.
In my view, the Constitution of the United States allows
States broad latitude in carrying out such programs. Where
a fundamental personal interest is not at stake-and higher
education is hardly that-the State must be free to
exercise its largesse in any reasonable manner. New York,
like most other States, does not have unlimited funds to
provide its residents with higher education services; it is
equally clear that the State has every interest in assuring that
those to whom it gives special help in obtaining an education
have or declare some attachment indicating their intent to remain within the State to practice their special skills. It has no
interest in providing these benefits to transients from another
country who are not willing to become citizens. The line
drawn by the State is not a perfect one-and few lines can
be-but it does provide a rational means to further the State's
legitimate objectives. Resident individuals who are citizens,
or who declare themselves committed to the idea of becoming
American citizens, are more likely to remain in the State of
New York after their graduation than are aliens whose ties to
their country of origin are so strong that they decline to sever
them in order to secure these valuable benefits.
I therefore conclude that the State of New York has not
acted impermissibly in refusing to dispense its limited tax
revenues to give assistance to aliens who by clear implication
reject the opportunity to become citizens of the United
States. Beyond the specific case, I am concerned that we not
obliterate all the distinctions between citizens and aliens, and
thus depreciate the historic values of citizenship.
If a State desires-and has the means-nothing in the
United States Constitution prevents it from voluntarily giving

NYQUIST v. MATUCLET

I

POWELL, J., dissenting

scholarships to aliens, even to those who reject United States
citizenships. But nothing heretofore found in the Constitution compels a State to apply its finite resources to higher
education of aliens who have demonstrated no permanent
attachment to the United States and who refuse to apply
for citizenship.
MR. JusTIcE PowELL, with whom TBm CHIEF JUSTICE
and MR.

JUSTICE STEWART

join, dissenting.

I am persuaded, for the reasons set forth in MR. JusTicE
RPHNQuJsT's dissent, that New York's scheme of financial
assistance to higher education does not discriminate against
a suspect class. The line New York has drawn in this case
is not between aliens and citizens, but between aliens who
prefer to retain foreign citizenship and all others.
"The system of alleged discrimination and the class it
defines have none of the traditional indicia of suspectness: the class is not saddled with such disabilities, or
subjected to such a history of purposeful unequal treatment, or relegated to such a position of political powerlessness as to command extraordinary protection from
the majoritarian political process." San Antonio School
Dist.v. Rodriguez, 411 U. S. 1, 28 (1973).
Our prior cases dealing with discrimination against all aliens
as a class, In re Griffiths, 413 U. S. 717 (1973); Sugarman v.
Dougall, 413 U. S. 634 (1973), and against subclasses of
aliens without regard to ability or willingness to acquire citizenship, Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365 (1971), do not
justify the application of strict judicial scrutiny to the legislative scheme before us today.*
*The Court's reliance on the personal status of the appellant in In re

Grifiths is misplaced. Our observation that Griffiths herself was eligible
for citizenship but did not intend to apply, 413 U. S., at 718 n. 1, was
hardly more than a factual "aside." The challenge in that case was to

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
PowrL, J., dissenting

432 U. S.

I also agree with MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST that the line
New York has drawn in extending scholarship assistance in
higher education is a rational one. I see no basis for the
Court's statement that offering incentives to resident alien
scholars to become naturalized "is not a permissible [purpose]
for a State." Ante, at 10. In my view, the States have a
substantial interest in encouraging allegiance to the United
States on the part of all persons, including resident aliens,
who have come to live within their borders. As the New
York Legislature declared in enacting a predecessor to the
present financial assistance scheme:
"The future progress of the state and nation and the
general welfare of the people depend upon the individual
development of the maximum number of citizens to provide the broad range of leadership, inventive genius, and
source of economic and cultural growth for oncoming
generations." 1961 N. Y. Laws, c. 389, § 1 (a).
As long as its program neither discriminates "on the basis of
alienage," Graham v. Richardson, supra, at 372, nor conflicts
with federal immigration and naturalization policy, it is my
view that New York legitimately may reserve its scholarship assistance to citizens, and to those resident aliens who
a Connecticut Rule of Court that flatly required an applicant for admission to the bar to be a citizen of the United States. Neither eligibility
for naturalization nor intent to apply was relevant under the Connecticut
scheme. There was no question that Griffiths had standing to challenge a
classification against all aliens, just as Mauclet and Rabinovitch unquestionably have standing to challenge the classification before us today.
Yet because the scheme in In re Griffiths "totally exclud[ed] aliens from
the practice of law," id., at 719, we had no occasion in that case to consider
whether a more narrowly tailored rule would be permissible. Had we
done so, we would have confronted the additional question, not presented
here, whether the exclusion improperly burdened the right to follow a
chosen occupation. Cf. Takahashi v. Fish & Game Comm'n, 334 U. S.
410 (1948); Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33 (1915).

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET

I

REHNQUIST, J., dissenting

declare their intention to become citizens, of both the Nation
and the State.
MR. JUsTIcE REHNQUIST,

with whom THE CHIEF

JUSTICE

joins, dissenting.
I am troubled by the somewhat mechanical application of
the Court's equal protection jurisprudence to this case. I
think one can accept the premise of Graham v. Richardson,
403 U. S. 365 (1971); In re Griffiths, 413 U. S. 717 (1973);
and Sugarman v. Dougall, 413 U. S. 634 (1973), and therefore agree with the Court that classifications based on alienage
are inherently suspect, but nonetheless feel that this case is
wrongly decided. In those cases, the reason postulated for
the elevation of alienage classifications to strict scrutiny was
directly related to the express exclusion of aliens found in the
State's classification. Here, however, we have a significantly
different case. The State's classification trenches not at all
upon the sole reason underlying the strict scrutiny afforded
alienage classifications by this Court.
Graham v. Richardson is, of course, the starting point of
analysis, as it was the first case to explicitly conclude that
alienage classifications, like those based on race or nationality,
would be subject to strict scrutiny when challenged under the
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
Grahamreasoned, 403 U. S., at 372:
"Aliens as a class are a prime example of a 'discrete and
insular' minority (see United States v. Carolene Products
Co., 304 U. S. 144, 152-153, n. 4 (1938)) for whom such
heightened judicial solicitude is appropriate."
It is clear, therefore, that the reason alienage classifications
receive heightened judicial scrutiny is because aliens, qua
aliens, are a "discrete and insular" minority. See also Sugarman v. Dougall, supra, at 642. Presumptively, such a
minority group, like blacks or Orientals, is one identifiable by

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
REHNQuisT,

J., dissenting

432 U. S.

a status over which the members are powerless. Cf. Jimenez
v. Weinberger, 417 U. S. 628, 631 (1974). And it is no
doubt true that all aliens are, at some time, members of a
discrete and insular minority in that they are identified by
a status which they are powerless to change until eligible to
become citizens of this country. Since, as the Court notes,
federal law generally requires five years' residence by aliens
lawfully admitted for permanent residence as a prerequisite
to the seeking of naturalization, 8 U. S. C. § 1427 (a), aliens
residing in this country necessarily are subject to a period
of time during which they must bear this status of an
"alien."'- If a classification, therefore, places aliens in one
category, and citizens in another, then, thereafter, every entering resident alien must pass through a period of time in
this country during which he falls into the one category and
' Title 8 U. S. C. § 1427 (a) allows application for naturalization upon
the following conditions:
"No person, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, shall be
naturalized unless such petitioner, (1) immediately preceding the date of
filing his petition for naturalization has resided continuously, after being
lawfully admitted for permanent residence, within the United States for
at least five years and during the five years immediately preceding the
date of filing his petition has been physically present therein for periods
totaling at least half of that time, and who has resided within the State
in which the petitioner filed the petition for at least six months, (2) has
resided continuously within the United States from the date of the petition up to the time of admission to citizenship, and (3) during all the
period referred to in this subsection has been and still is a person of
good moral character, attached to the principles of the Constitution of
the United States, and well disposed to the good order and happiness of
the United States."
Section 1430 (a) establishes a three-year residency requirement for aliens
whose spouse is a citizen of the United States. See also 8 U. S. 0.
§ 1434. Sections 1430 (b), (c), and (d) establish special categories where
no prior residence in this country is required. They constitute de
minimis exceptions, and may be properly ignored in considering alienage
classifications.

NYQUIST v. MAUCLET
1

RnHxQuisT, J., dissenting

not the other. Nothing except time can remove him from his
identified status as an "alien" and from whatever associated
disabilities the statute might place on one occupying that
status. In this sense, it is possible to view aliens as a discrete
and insular minority, since they are categorized by a factor
beyond their control.
The prior alienage cases from this Court, utilizing strict
scrutiny to strike down state statutes, all dealt with statutes
where the line drawn necessarily suffered that infirmity; in
all of those cases, the line drawn necessarily left incoming
resident aliens afflicted with the disability for some period of
time. Nothing except the passage of time could remove the
alien from the classification and the disability. The statutes,
therefore, involved the precise infirmity which led this Court
to accord aliens "suspect classification" treatment: The line
drawn by the legislature was drawn on the basis of a status,
albeit temporary, that the included members were powerless
to change.2
While the majority seems to view Graham v. Richardson
as somehow different, ante, at 8-9, it is clear that the statute
involved in that case suffered from the same weakness.
By making aliens, but not citizens, await a durational residency requirement, aliens coming into the State were, because
of their status, treated differently from citizens for a period of
time, and during that period of time, the incoming aliens were
2In

In re Griffiths, 413 U. S. 717, 718 n. 1 (1973), the Court noted:

"[The plaintiff] is eligible for naturalization by reason of her marriage to
a citizen of the United States and residence in the United States for more
than three years, 8 U. S. C. § 1430 (a). She has not filed a declaration
of intention to become a citizen of the United States, 8 U. S. C. § 1445 (f),
and has no present intention of doing so."
The eligibility of plaintiff in that case, however, was not built into the
classification scheme. The state-court rule prevented any alien from
becoming an attorney, and of course reached those resident aliens who,
having not satisfied the jurisdictional prerequisites to citizenship, could
not change their disfavored status.

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
RE;HNQUiST,

J., dissenting

432 U. S.

powerless to remove themselves from that disability (unless
they could become citizens). There was nothing else the
alien could do to avoid the period of discriminatory treatment.
In all of these cases, then, the classification made by the
State conformed to the reason underlying the strict scrutiny
this Court applied. But it would seem to follow that if a
state statute classifies in a way which necessarily avoids
the underlying reason for the strict scrutiny, the statute
should be viewed in a different light. This is such a case.
Under this New York statute, a resident alien has, at all times,
the power to remove himself from one classification and to
place himself in the other, for, at all times, he may become
entitled to benefits either by becoming a citizen or by declaring his intention to become a citizen as soon as possible.'
Here, unlike the other cases, the resident alien is not a
member of a discrete and insular minority for purposes of the
classification, even during the period that he must remain an
alien, because he has at all times the means to remove himself immediately from the disfavored classification. There is
no temporal disability since the resident alien may declare an
intent, thereby at once removing himself from the disabled
class, even if the intent cannot come to fruition for some period of time. Unlike the situation in Griffiths, Sugarman, and
Graham, there exists no period of disability, defined by status,
from which the alien cannot escape. The alien is not, there3As the Court notes, the state statutory scheme is challengeable at all
only by resident aliens. Ante, at 4. While other aliens are also disqualified by the state statute in question, they are also decisively disqualified by federal law from establishing a permanent residence in this
country, see 8 U. S. C. § 1101 (a) (15) (F) (i); 22 CFR §41.45 (1976);
cf. 45 CFR § 177.2 (a) (1976). Since there is no question of the plenary
power of the Federal Government in this area, see Mathews v. Diaz, 426
U. S. 67 (1976), the Court is quite properly concerned only with the
category of resident aliens, those "lawfully admitted for permanent residence." 8 U. S. C. § 1101 (a) (20). See generally In re Griffiths, supra,
at 719-722; Graham v. Richardson, 403 U. S. 365, 371 (1971).

NYQTJIST v. MAUCLET
1

REHNQuIsT, J., dissenting

fore, for any period of time, forced into a position as a discrete and insular minority 4
Since the New York statute under challenge in this case
does not create a discrete and insular minority by placing an
inevitable disability based on status, the Court's heightened
judicial scrutiny is unwarranted. The reason for the more
rigorous constitutional test having ceased, the applicability of
the test should likewise cease. Applying the rational-basis
test, it is obvious that the statutory scheme in question should
be sustained. The funds that New York wishes to spend
on its higher education assistance programs are, of course,
limited. New York's choice to distribute these limited funds
to resident citizens and to resident aliens who intend to become
citizens, while denying them to aliens who have no intention
of becoming citizens, is a natural legislative judgment. By
limiting the available pool of recipients to resident citizens
and aliens who will become citizens, New York is able to give
such recipients a larger payment from the same quantum of
funds than would be the case were other aliens recipients as
well. A State is entitled to decide, in distributing benefits,
that resident citizens, whether or not they will remain residents of New York, are more likely to contribute to the
future well-being of the State, either directly (by settling
there) or indirectly (by living in some other State, but maintaining economic or social ties with New York or by improving
the general well-being of the United States) than are aliens
who are unwilling to renounce citizenship in a foreign country,
and who may be thought more likely to return there. New
4 The alien, of course, must "give up" (or announce that he intends to
give up) his foreign citizenship. See 8 U. S. C. § 1448 (a). In this sense,

he must do something that members of the other category need not do in
order to be eligible for the "favored" treatment. But, here, what is given
up is the factor which distinguishes between the categories. I cannot view
this as an impermissible burden which would convert this case into a case
like Griffiths or Sugarman.

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1976
REHNQUIST,

J., dissenting

432 U. S.

York may also decide, in providing student loans pursuant
to N. Y. Educ. Law §§ 680-684 (McKinney Supp. 1976),
that it will be easier to collect repayment sums from citizens
than from aliens, should these loans be defaulted upon. These
are permissible legislative judgments. Cf. McGowan v. Maryland, 366 U. S. 420, 426 (1961); Ohio Bureau of Employment
Services v. Hodory, 431 U. S. 471 (1977). When we deal, as
we do here, with questions of economic legislation, our deference to the actions of a State is extremely great. Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471, 485 (1970). New York's
decision to deny educational monetary benefits to aliens who
do not wish to become citizens of this country, while extending such benefits to citizens and other resident aliens, is
rational, and should be sustained.

