OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Syllabus.

docket, indexihg the same, making cotemporaneous minutes
and entries upon the docket or calendar and such other incidental services as are not covered by other clauses of the statute. Where, however, the entry is not a mere memorandum,
but requires to be made part of a permanent record, it is a,
proper subject for a charge per folio.
The item in this case was properly allowed by the court
below as for "making a record."
The opimon in the above case will be varied to this extent.

In re CLAASEN.
ORIGINAL.
No. 16. Original. Argued April 30, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
Under § 5 of the act of 'March 3, 1891, entitled "An act to establish Circuit
Courts of Appeals, and to define and regulate in certain cases the Jurisdiction of the courts of the United States and for other purposes," a.
writ of error may, even before July 1, 1891, issue from this court to a
Circuit Court, in the case of a conviction of a crime under § 5209 of the
Revised Statutes, where the conviction occurred May 28, 1890, but a
sentence of imprisonment in a penitentiary was imposed March 18, 1891.
A crime is "infamous" under that act, where it is punishable by imprisonment in a state prison or penitentiary, whether the accused is or is not
sentenced or put to hard labor.
Such writ of error is a matter of right, and, under § 999 of the Revised
Statutes, the citation may be signed by a justice of this court, as an
authority for the issuing of the writ under § 100.
At the time of the conviction, no writ of error from this court, in the
case, was provided for by statute, nor was any bill of exceptions, with
a view to a writ of error, provided for by statute or rule; and, therefore, a mandamus will not lie to the judge who presided at the trial, to
compel him to settle a bill of exceptions which was presented to him for
settlement after the sentence; nor can the minutes of the trial, as settled
by the judge by consent, and signed by him, and printed and filed in July
1890, and on which a motion for a new trial was heard in October, 1890,
be treated by this court, on the return to the writ of error, as a bill of
exceptions properly forming part of the record.
A criminal court in the Southern District of New York, sitting as a Circuit

IN RE CLAASEN.
Opinion of the Court.
Court therein, under § 613 of the Revised Statutes, and composed of the
three judges named in that section, to hear a motion for a new trial and
an arrest of judgment, in a criminal case previously tried by a jury
before one of them, is a legally constituted tribunal.
A justice of this court on allowing such writ and signing a citation had
authority also to grant a supersedeas and stay of execution.
MvOTION

for leave to file a petition for a writ of mandamus.

The case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Hector X3. llitchzngs for the petition.
.Mf'r Attorney General and .Ar Edward Afitchell opposing.
_31r George F _Edmwunds as ameus curte.
MR. JUsTIcE BLATOHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

Peter J Claasen, having been indicted under section 5209
of the Revised Statutes, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, was, on the
28th of May, 1890, on a trial before the court, held by Judge
Benedict, District Judge for the Eastern Distiict of New
York, and a jury, found guilty on five of the counts of the
indictment.
The term of that court at which the indictment was tried
was one appointed exclusively for the trial and disposal of
criminal business, and was held by Judge Benedict under the
provision of section 613 of the Revised Statutes-which enacts
that "the terms of the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York, appointed exclusively for the trial and disposal
of criminal business, may be held by the Circuit Judge of the
Second Judicial Court [Circuit] and the District Judges for
the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, or any one
of said three judges." That term adjourned on the day before
the third Wednesday in June, 1890.
On the 24th of October, 1890, the defendant made a motion
for a new trial and in arrest of judgment. At a like term of
said court, held by the Circuit Judge of the Second Judicial Circuit and the District Judges for the Southern and Eastern Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tricts of New York, and which began on the second Wednesday in October, 1890, this motion was heard upon the minutes of the trial, as settled and signed by Judge Benedict and
printed under the provisions of a rule of the court. The motion was denied in December, 1890.
Before the defendant was sentenced under his conviction,
Congress passed the act of March 3, 1891, entitled "An act to
establish Circuit Courts of Appeals, and to define and regulate
in certain cases the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
States and for other purposes." 138 U. S.709; 26 Stat. 826,
c. 517. The 5th section of that act provides that a writ of
error may be taken from an existing Circuit Court direct to
the Supreme Court of the United States in the following
cases, among others, "in cases of conviction of a capital or
otherwise infamous crime." By a joint resolution approved
March 3, 1891, entitled "Joint resolution to provide for the
organization of the Circuit Courts of Appeals," it was provided that nothing in the above-mentioned act of March 3,
1891, should be held or construed in anywise to impair the
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or of any Circuit Court of
the United States "in any case now pending before it, or in
respect of any case wherein the writ of error" should have
been sued out before July 1, 1891.
On the 18th of March, 1891, the defendant was sentenced
by the Circuit Court to be imprisoned for a term of six years
in the Erie County penitentiary On the 21st of March, 1891,
a writ of error to the Circuit Court from this court was
allowed by an Associate Justice of this court, and a citation
signed, returnable here on the second Monday of April, 1891,
with this direction, made by such Associate Justice "This
writ is to operate as a suyersedeas and stay of execution, with
leave to the United States to move the Supreme Court of the
United States, on notice, to vacate the stay, as having been
granted without authority of law'"
On the same 21st of March, 1891, the defendant filed in
the Circuit Court an assignment of errors, and on the 25th of
March, 1891, the attorney of the United States served on the
attorney for the defendant a joinder in error, having previously

IN RE CLAASEN.
Opinion of the Court.

filed the same in the office of the clerk of the court. Thereafter, the counsel for the defendant prepared a bill of exceptions, containing the matters supposed to be necessary to
present for consideration the errors specified in the said assignment of errors, which latter paper contained additional specifications of error to those covered by the minutes of the trial,
as settled by Judge Benedict, upon which the motion for a
new trial and in arrest of judgment was so made. That bill
of exceptions was, on the 18th of April, 1891, presented to
Judge Benedict for settlement, the United States attorney
attending on notice and on service of a copy of the proposed
bill of exceptions.
The time to file and docket the record in this court has been
enlarged so that it has not yet expired, and the term of the
Circuit Court at which the defendant was sentenced has not
yet expired, and will not expire until 'May 12, 1891.
On the presentation of the bill of exceptions to Judge
Benedict, the United States attorney objected to the settlement of any bill of exceptions, for reasons including, among
others, those stated in an opinion given by Judge Benedict on
the 23d of April, 1891, refusing to settle and allow the bill.
The defendant now moves for leave to file a petition for a
writ of mandamus, which sets forth the foregoing facts, and
the motion has been argued on behalf of the petitioner and of
the United States. The petition prays for a writ of mandamus
to Judge Benedict, commanding him to settle and allow the
bill of exceptions according to the truth of the matters which
took place before him on the trial of the indictment, and to
sign it, when settled and allowed, as of the 10th of April, 1891,
the time a copy of it was served upon the United States attorney, with notice of settlement.
It is stated in the opinion of Judge Benedict, that the
minutes of the trial, on which the motion for a new trial and
in arrest of judgment was made, contained some exceptions
that were noted at the trial and omitted others, and were
settled by consent and signed by him. It appears from the
record that this was done on July 9, 1890, and that on the
same day the printed case as settled was filed in the office of

OCTOBER TERM\f, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the clerk of the Circuit Court. The record also shows, that
on the 24th of October, 1890, before the hearing of the motion
for a new trial and in arrest of judgment, a motion was made
on the part of the defendant, before the court held by the
three judges, to insert in the record exceptions which did not
appear in the minutes of the trial as so settled and filed, that
that application was denied, and that the case was then heard.
It appears from the opinion that the ground on which Judge
Benedict refused to settle or sign the bill of exceptions was
that, as the defendant had presented for his signature the
minutes of the trial, and he had signed them, and they had
been incorporated in the record with the consent of the defendant, and the case had been heard and decided by the three
judges upon those minutes, the record was complete, and contained a sufficiently authenticated statement of the only exceptions which were open to review on the writ of error, that
all other exceptions had been waived and abandoned, and
that there was no occasion for any bill of exceptions other
than, or different from, the one already incorporated in the
record. The opinion also says, that the act of March 3, 1891,
giving to this court the right to review the record in this case
upon the writ of error, applies to the record as it stood complete, in the matter of the exceptions taken at the trial, when
the statute was passed, and had no effect to revive exceptions
which had been waived and abandoned, and does not require
or permit a second bill of exceptions to be incorporated into
the record as it stood at the time of the passage of the act.
We are of opinion that the act of March 3, 1891, went into
immediate operation, so as to permit a writ of error to be
allowed in the present case, as the final judgment against the
defendant, by his sentence, was not rendered until March 18,
1891. The case was one of conviction of an "infamous crime,"
within the meaning of the act, as those words have been heretofore interpreted by this court. It was held in Ex _parte
Wilson, 114 U. S. 417, that a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term of years at hard labor is an infamou- crime,
within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. See also .Mackn v United

IN RE CLAASEN.
Opinion of the Court.

States, 117T U S. 348, Parknsn v Unzted States, 121 U. S.
281, Unsted States v e Walt, 128 U. S. 393, M'edley, Petitoner, 134 I. S. 160, 169, and In re Mills, 135 U. S. 263, 267.

The purport of the rulings in those cases is, that a crime which
is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison or penitentiary, as is the crime of which the defendant was convicted,
is an infamous crime, whether the accused is or is not sentenced or put to hard labor, and that, in determining whether
the crime is infamous, the question is, whether it is one for
which the statute authorizes the court to award an infamous
punishment, and not whether the punishment ultimately
awarded is an infamous one. So it is clear that the crime in
the present case is an infamous crime, although it does not
appear that section 5209, or the sentence imposed, expressly
provided for imprisonment at hard labor.
The writ of error was, under the act of March 3, 1891, a
matter of right, and, being a writ to an existing Circuit Court,
the citation could, under § 999 of the Revised Statutes, be
signed by a justice of this court, as an authority for the issuing
of the writ under § 1004.
We are of opinion, however, that although a writ of error
will lie, the petition for the mandamus must be denied. At
the time of the trial, and at the time the verdict of the jury
was rendered, on the 28th of May, 1890, no writ of error from
this court m a case like the present was provided for by
statute. Of course, no bill of exceptions with a view to a writ
of error was provided for, either by statute or rule. The
granting of the writ of error now, because the final judgment
on the conviction was rendered subsequently to March 3, 1891,
cannot create a right to a bill of exceptions which did not
exist at the time of the conviction. To so hold does not
impair the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in the case, within
the meaning of the joint resolution of March 3, 1891, although
the writ of error is taken out prior to July 1, 1891. The
rights of the defendant in respect of a bill of exceptions stand
as they.did at the time he was convicted. Therefore, the bill
of exceptions presented for settlement to Judge Benedict cannot be allowed, nor can the minutes of the trial as settled by

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

him by consent, and signed by him, and printed and filed, be
treated by this court, on the return to the writ of error, as a

bill of exceptions properly forming part of the record, no such
bill of exceptions having been authorized on July 9, 1890.
It was suggested by the counsel for the defendant, that the
Circuit Court held in this case by the three judges, under section 613 of the Revised Statutes, was improperly constituted,
that all proceedings before it were without legal authority,
and that its acts were of no binding force. But we are of
opinion that it was a legally constituted tribunal, that it not
only could have tried the cause in the first instance, but was
authorized to hear and pass upon the- motion for a new trial
and in arrest of judgment. and that the rule made by the
Circuit Court on that subject, which is quoted in the margin,1
was a proper rule. Section 613 of the Revised Statutes has
been above quoted. It isprovided by § 658 that the regular
terms of the Circuit Court in the Southern District of New
York "exclusively for the trial and disposal of criminal cases,
and matters arising and pending in said court," shall be held
at the times therein specified. The provision 6f § 613 is that
the criminal terms may be held by the three judges named
1 CRIMnINAL RULE OF THE CiRcuIr COURT.
"1March 12th, ]879. For the
purpose of securing a right of review to defendants in criminal cases tried
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, hereafter, in all such cases, where the defendant shall, within three
days after conviction, file notice of a motion for a new trial upon exceptions taken at the trial, or a motion in arrest of judgment, sentence will be
deferred until the next criminal term of the court, in order to give opportunity for the hearing of such motion before a court to be composed of the
Circuit Judge and the two District Judges authorized by law to hold the
said terms of said court, under section 613 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States. The court will sit for the purpose of such hearings on
the second day of each of the exclusively criminal terms provided for in
section 658 of said Revised Statutes, at which time either party may move
the hearing, and the same will be had upon the minutes of the trial, as
settled by the judge who tried the case. The minutes so settled shall be
printed by the moving party, and five copies thereof shall be filed before
the first day of the term next subsequent to the term at which the trial was
had, ove of which copies shall be delivered to the district attorney, at his
request. A failure to file such copies will be deemed an abandonment of
any motion of which notice may have been given in pursuance of this rule."

IN RE CLAASEN.
Opinion of the Court.

in that section, or any one of them.

All three may hold
the court for any criminal business which may be brought
before it.
The fact that the district attorney filed a joinder in error
to the specific assignments of error filed by the defendant does

not affect the ground upon which we dispose of the present
application.
At the same time with the foregoing motion for leave to
file a petition for a writ of mandamus, the Attorney General,
on behalf of the United States, moved this court to annul and
set aside the sujpersedeasand stay of proceedings, on the ground
that the making of the order granting the same was unauthorized by law, because there is no express provision in the act of
Mlarch 3, 1891, for a supersedeas and stay of execution. This
motion was made with the view of testing the question, and
has properly been argued by the Attorney General from the
standpoint of having the matter finally determined one way
or the other, rather than in any particular way
Attention is called to the provision of section I of that act,
that "the review, by appeal, by writ of error or otherwise,
from the existing Circuit Courts shall be had only in the
Supreme Court of the United States or in the circuit courts of
appeals hereby established according to the provisions of this
act regulating the same," and also to the provision of section
11 of that act, that "any judge of the circuit courts of appeals,
in respect of cases brought or to be brought to that court,
shall have the same powers and duties as to the allowance of
appeals or writs of error, and the conditions of such allowance,
as now by law belong to the justices or judges in respect of
the existing courts of the United States respectively;" and it
is suggested that neither of those provisions applies to cases
of appeals to, or writs of error from, this court. It is, therefore, contended that there is no direct provision for a supersedeas upon a writ of error from this court, m a criminal
case.
That this court, as a court, has power to issue a writ of
uppersedeasunder section 716 of the Revised Statutes is quite
clear, for that section gives it power to issue all writs not

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

specifically provided for by statute, which may be necessary
for the exercise of its jurisdiction and agreeable to the usages
and principles of law Hardyman v Anderson, 4 How 64:0,
.Fa parte .filwukee Railroad Co., 5 Wall. 188.
We are of opinion, however, that a justice of this court had
authority not only to allow the writ of error, but also to grant
the supersedeas. By section 1000 of the Revised Statutes, it
is provided that every justice or judge signing a citation on
any writ of error shall take security for the prosecution of the
writ, and for costs, where the writ is not to be a suersedeas
and stay of execution, and for damages and costs where it is
to be. In a criminal case, there are no damages, and in such
a case, the United States being a party, it is provided by subdivision 4 of Rule 24 of this court, that in cases where the
United States are a party no costs shall be allowed in this
court for or against the United States.
Section 1007 of the Revised Statutes provides for the manner in which a supersedeas may be obtained on a writ of error.
It is by serving the writ of error, by lodging a copy thereof
for the adverse party in the clerk's office where the record
remains, within sixty days, Sundays exclusive, after the rendering of the judgment complained of, and giving the security
required by law on the issuing of the citation. But, as there
is no security required in a criminal case, the supersedeas may
be obtained by merely serving the writ within the time prescribed, without giving any security, provided the justice who
signs the citation directs that the writ shall operate as a suzversedeas, which he may do when no security is required or
taken.
We hold, therefore, that the allowance of the supersedeas
in the present case was proper, and we deny the motion to set
it aside.
To remove all doubt on the subject, however, in future cases,
we have adopted a general rule, which is promulgated as Rule
36 of this court, (see 139 U S., '[06,) and which embraces, also,
the power to admit the defendant to bail after the citation is
served.
The order made hereon m the present case will allow the

KNEELAND v. LAWRENCE.
Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court, or any justice or judge thereof, in its or his discretion, to admit the defendant to bail, after the service of the
citation, in such amount as may be fixed.
The motion of defendant for leave to file a petition for a
writ of mandamus, and the motion of the United States to set
aside the supersedeas and stay of proceedings, are both of
Densed.
them
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY

did not sit in this case or take any

part in its decision.

KN'TEELAND
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT

v. LAWRENCE.
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 333. Argued April 21, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A bona fide purchaser, before maturity, of coupon bonds of a railroad
company payable to bearer, takes them freed from any equities that
might have been set up against the original holder; and the burden of
proof is on him who assails the bona fides of such purchase.
Tested by this rule appellant's case must fail.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.M' John 21. Butler for appellant.
XA George T Porterfor appellees.
MR. JUSTICE LMAA

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is one of a large number involving litigation
growing out of the foreclosure of a mortgage upon the Toledo,
Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad of Ohio, Indiana and Illinois.
The facts necessary to an understanding of the question at
issue, briefly stated, are as follows The Frankfort and Kokomo
Railroad was a road of about twenty-five miles in length, runVOL. CXL-14

