MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Decree.

them, as could be seized and sold on execution for the debts
of the city
Decree reversed, and case remanded wth direatwns to enter
judgrnentfor the coty of New Orleans.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE

BRowx took no part

in the decision of this case.

THE LATE CORPORATION OF THE CHURCH
OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
v. UNITED STATES.
ROM NEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREIME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTA.
Nos. 695, 715.

Decided May 19, 1890.- Reported 136 U. S. 1.-Decree entered May 25, 1S91.

The court now orders a decree entered in this case, for which purpose it was
reserved at the last term. See Mormon Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1, 66.
DECREE.

THE decree entered in this case on the 19th day of May,
1890, having been set aside by an order of the court made on
the 23d day of May, 1890, it is now upon further consideration
ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the decree of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah be affirmed with the following
modification, that is to say that the seventh clause of said
decree be changed and modified so as to read as follows:
[7th. And the court does further adjudge and decree that
the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints having become by law dissolved as aforesaid, there
did not exist at its dissolution, and do not now exist, any
trusts or purposes within the objects and purposes for which
said personal property was originally acquired, as hereinbefore
set out, whether said acquisition was by purchase or donation,
to or for which said personalty or any part thereof could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Decree.

used, or to which it could be dedicated, that were and are not,
in whole or in part, opposed to public policy, good morals and
contrary to the laws of the United States, and furthermore,
that there do not exist any natural persons or any body, association or corporation who are legally entitled to any portion
of said personalty as successors in interest to said Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and the said personal property has devolved to the United States, and not being lawfully applicable to the purposes for which it was originally
dedicated or acquired, and to which, at the commencement of
this suit, it was being devoted by the said corporation and its
controlling authorities, the same ought to be limited and
appointed to such charitable uses, lawful in their character,
as may most nearly correspond to those to which it was originally destined, to be ascertained and defined (unless in the
meantime Congress should otherwise order) by reference to
a master for due examination, inquiry and report thereon,
subject to the approval of the court, and to be established,
administered and carried out in such manner and according
to such scheme as may be suggested and reported by said
master and approved by the court. It is further ordered and
decreed that until the ascertainment and determination of
such uses and the adoption of such scheme, and until direction
be taken for the ultimate funding or investment of the said
personal property for the purposes aforesaid, the receiver
appointed in this cause do continue in the custody and charge
thereof, with all accumulations, subject to the further order
of the court, and (conjointly with the rents and income of the
real estate) to the payment of the costs and expenses of this
proceeding and of the receivership aforesaid. The reference
herein provided for to be made by a separate order.]
Whereupon it is considered, adjudged and decreed that the
cause be remanded to the Supreme Court of the Territory of
Utah, with directions to modify its decree as herein directed,
and to take such further proceedings as to law and justice
may appertain in conformity with the opinion of this court
delivered on this appeal at the last term of the court.
Per MR. JusTI E BRADLEY.
May 25, 1891.

