CLUETT v. CLAFLIN.
Opinion of the Court.

of stitches shall be used for this purpose, or whether such
stitches shall pass through the binding or inside of it, is
obviously a question of mere convenience, involving nothing
which, under a most liberal construction, could be held to be an
exercise of the inventive faculty If bosoms had always been
worn before as a separate garment, it is possible that cutting
away the front of the shirt and inserting the bosom might
have involved some slight invention, though it is very doubtful if it would sustain a patent, but as bosoms had long been
bound by a folded binding, and, with or without such binding,
had been attached to shirts by stitching, it would seem to
approximate more closely to invention to make such attachment by a row of stitching which did not than by stitches
which did, pass through such binding. In view of the simplicity of this device we find it impossible to escape the conviction
that plaintiffs are laboring under a strong bias of self-interest
in asserting that this improvement was "the result of careful
and prolonged study and experiment." We think this case
must be added to the already long list of those reported in the
,decisions of this court wherein the patentee has sought to
obtain the monopoly of a large manufacture by a trifling deviation from ordinary and accepted methods.
In the view we have taken of this patent we do not find
it necessary to consider or discuss the voluminous testimony
upon the subject of anticipation.
The decree of the court below is
Afflrmned.
M. JUSTICE BLATCH!iORD did not sit in this case, and took no

part in its decision.

CLUETT V. MONEANy. Appeal from the Circuit Court of the
iUnited States for the Southern District of New York, No. 175.
Argued with No. 174. As this -case also turns upon the validity
of the same patent the decree of the court below is

Affirmed.
.1r S. A. Duncan and 11r J. A. Skilton for appellants.

OCTOBER TERMil, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

2r

Davd Tim for appellees.

MR. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD did not sit in tis
part in its decision.

case, and took no

ST. PAUL PLOW WORKS v. STARLING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.
No. 329. Argued April 20, 21, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

By a written agreement signed by both parties, a patentee of a plow granted
to another person the right to make and sell the patented plow under the
patent, in a specified territory, the latter agreeing to make the plows in a.
good and workmanlike manner, and advertise and sell them in the usual
manner, and at a price not to exceed the usual price, and account twice
a year for all plows sold, and pay a specified royalty for each plow sold.
After making and selling some plows, the grantee gave notice to the
patentee, that he renounced the license. But he afterwards made and
sold plows embracing a claim of the patent. The patentee sued him to,
recover the agreed royalty on those plows. He set up in defence want
of novelty and of utility. The case was tried by the court without a jury,
which found for the plaintiff on novelty and utility, and gave judgment
for him for the amount of the license fees; Held,
(1) The license continued for the life of the patent;
(2) The defendant could not renounce the license except by mutual
consent or by the fault of the plaintiff,
(3) The plaintiff had a right to regard the license as still in force and to.
sue for the royalties;
(4) This court could not review the finding that the invention was new.
The ruling out of certain evidence was a matter of discretion, and some
of it was immaterial.
After the defendant put in evidence earlier patents on the issue of want of
novelty, it was proper for the plaintiff to show that, before the date of
any of them, he had reduced his invention to practice in a working
form.

Tis was an action at law, brought in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Minnesota, by William
Starling, a citizen of Nebraska, against the St. Paul Plow
Works, a corporation of Minnesota.

