OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

Chief Supervisor, whose duties are entirely distinct from those
of an ordinary supervisor, should be paid by fees, and- that the
ordinary supervisor should receive as his sole compensation $5
per day while actually on duty, referring, evidently, to their
duty at the registration and polls, and not to any supposed
obligation to attend upon the court. As a commissioner, he
is only entitled to a per diem of $5 when hearing or deciding1
a criminal case, and nothing for attendance upon court.
It results that the action of the Circuit Court must be sustained, except in regard to the two items for docket fees and
instructions to supervisors, and that its judgment should be
reduced by the amount disallowed of those two items.
The case will therefore .be
Remanded to the Circuit Court, with direct-tons to vacate the
judgment heretofore 'rendered,and to enter a new Judgment qn conformity to this optnwon.

UNITED STATES v. POIKIER.
A.PPEAL FROM

THE

DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 1151.

Argued March 12, 13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

There being a dispute between the United States and Poinier respecting his
charges for his services as Chief Supervisor of Elections; Held,
(1) That he was entitled to charge a fee for filing recommendations for
appointments (entitled by him informations), but not for recording and indexing them,
(2) That he was entitled to charge for ndexing appointments, but not
for recording them,
(3) That he was entitled to charge for preparing instructions to supervisors;

(4) That he was entitled to charge a reasonable sum, within the discretion of the court and the treasury accounting officers, for procuring and distributing the same;
(5) That he was not entitled to a per diem charge for attendance upon
the Circuit Court,
(6) That he was entitled to charge for stationery, and for printing forms
and blanks.

UNITED STATES v. POINIER.
Opinion of the Court.

Tuis was an action against the United States, brought under
the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 505, to recover for services
performed as Chief Supervisor of Elections during the months
of October and November, 1888. The petition set forth in
substance that the claimant was a commissioner of the Circuit
Court, and had also been appointed Chief Supervisor of Elections for the several districts of South Carolina, that he resided in Spartanburg, in the western district of South Carolina,
and that his duties required his attendance before the Circuit
Court in the city of Charleston, that between the 5th of October and the 14th of November, 1888, he peformed the services
and incurred the expenses set forth in his petition, and in the
schedule annexed thereto, that his account was duly presented
to the Circuit Court and approved, that such account, amounting to $963.70, was subsequently presented to the Treasury
Department, and allowed at $314.45, leaving a difference of
$649.25, for which the action was brought. Upon trial in the
District Court, judgment was rendered in favor of the petitioner for $641.15, 40 Fed. Rep. 139, from which the United
States appealed to this court.
Mrb' John C. Chaney for appellant. -T Assistant Attorney
General Cotton was with him on the brief.
.31 C. C. Lancaster for appellee.
with him on the brief.
Ym.

JUSTicE

M" John Vingate was

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

No question is made in regard to the actual performance of
the services charged for, but the Attorney General contends
that there is no warrant of law for the allowance of the following items
1. ":Recording and indexing 105 informations, $31.50." It
is not altogether easy to determine what is meant by "informations," as used in this connection. The only authority for
this charge, to which our attention has been directed, is contained in the clause of ยง 2026, which provides that the Chief
Supervisor "shall receive the applications of all parties for apVOL. CXL-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opmion of the Court.

pointment," and shall present such applications to the judge,
.and "furnish information to him in respect to the appointment by the court of such Supervisors of Election." It
would seem from this that the "applications" were presumed to be in writing, and that the only "information"
contemplated was such knowledge of the qualification and
competency of the applicants as the Chief Supervisor might
think fit to furnish orally to the judge. There is no paper or
document contemplated by the statute which can properly be
called an "information." If, as would appear from the opinion of the court below and from the brief of the petitioner,
these informations were the recommendations of the agents or
committees of each political party, there is clearly no necessity for recording them, though a charge for filing them as a
part of the records of the office would seem to be proper under
ยง 2031, which allows "for filing and caring for every return,
report, record, document, or other paper required to be filed
by him under any of the preceding provisions, ten cents." It
does not, however, follow that every paper which the law
authorizes to be filed must therefore be recorded or copied.
To entitle a paper or document to be recorded it should have
some permanent value. Where the original paper is preserved
or filed, such for instance as the pleadings, exhibits, depositions
or other papers in a common suit at law or equity, no necessity
ordinarily exists for its being recorded. As a charge of ten
cents for filing these informations was allowed by the department, the exception to this item for recording and indexing is
therefore sustained.
2. "Recording and indexing appointment of 1008 supervisors," two folios each at 15 cents, $302.40. The only connection of the Chief Supervisor with the appointment of his
subordinates is set forth in ยง 2026, which provides that he shall
receive their applications, and upon the opening of the court
"he shall present such applications to the judge thereof, and
furnish information to him with respect to the appointment
by the court of such supervisors of election." The appointments are made by the judge of-the court, the order for these
appointments is entered by the clerk in his journal, and the

UNLITED STATES v. POIIER.
Opinion of the Court.

commissions are then signed by the judge and delivered to
the supervisors. It is doubtless proper that a list of these
appointments shall be preserved in the office of the Chief
Supervisor, and that the same shall be indexed, but there is no
necessity whatever for the copying or recording such appointments for which the large charge of $302.40 is made. The
charge of 15 cents per folio for indexing such appointments
would seem to be proper, but the charge for recording them is
unnecessary and should be disallowed as a mere effort to multiply fees.
3. For preparing instructions to supervisors, $2.40. This
item is allowed upon the authority of Untted States v fMcDerTnott, ante, 151.
4. The petitioner does not make a per folio charge for copies of such instructions as was done in the case of XcDermott,
ante, 151, but he claims for 1008 of such copies at 10 cents
each. We think he is entitled to the expense of printing and
distributing these instructions, and, as the court below not
only formally approved his account including this charge, but
upon reconsideration formally allowed it as a proper and necessary disbursement, such allowance should not be disturbed.
Where the statute provides generally for the expense of printing blanks, and the court allows the account, or the officers
of the department are of the opinion that the charge is a
reasonable one for the expense and trouble of printing and
distributing copies of such blanks, such allowance would be
regarded as conclusive by this court, under our ruling in the
case of United States v Jones, 134 U S. 483. The trouble of
procuring and distributing copies of these instructions is one of
those services for which no distinct compensation is made by
statute, and the propriety of an allowance for the same is a
matter largely within the discretion of the court and the
accounting officers of the Treasury
The exception to this
item is, therefore, overruled.
5. The exception by the Attorney General to the charge
for per diems and mileage for attendance upon the Circuit
Court at Charleston is sustaned upon the authority of United
Sttes v iX Derrnott. The argument that, while the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

makes no provision for paying the Chief Supervisor for his
.attendance upon court, he is entitled as a commissioner to the
:same fees as a clerk for the performance of like services,
that the clerk is entitled to a per diem, and, therefore, the
.commissioner should be, is somewhat strained, in view of the
lact that he does not attend as commissioner, and that no
allowance is ever made to a commissioner for attendance except when hearing and deciding criminal cases himself. If no
allowance be made by statute to commissioners or to chief
supervisors for attendance or mileage it is difficult to see
upon what theory the petitioner is entitled to it.

6. Certain items for stationery allowed by the court below
are objected to by the Attorney General, but are properly
allowable under that clause of section 2026 which requires the
Chief Supervisor to prepare and furnish all necessary books,
forms, blanks and instructions for the use and direction of
supervisors. What shall be deemed necessary forms and
blanks must be left to a certain extent to the court passing
upon the question, and we should not feel authorized to disturb such allowance unless its discretion were abused. As
the petitioner made no charge for drawing these instructions
to supervisors, to which he would have been entitled under our
ruling in United States v lfcYDermott, he is at least entitled to
the expense of printing them.
The judgment of the court below must be vacated and set
astde, and a new judgment entered -, conformity with this
OT M? on.

UNITED STATES .v. BARBER.
APPEAL FROM THE msTRIC

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOl

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA33AMA.
No. 1164.

Argued and submitted March 12,13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

On the authority of United States v. Ewing, ante, 142, the appellee's fees as
commissioner of the Circuit Court for the MKiddle District of Alabama,
acting in criminal cases, are allowed for " drawing complaints;" in con-

