OCTOBER TERMV,

1890.

Syllabus.

1876, to a director of the company, and in the ensuing resolution of the company and letter of that director.
The compensation to be received by the plaintiff for such
duties was not increased or affected by the fact that by the
rules by which he was governed he was also made general
attorney and counsellor of the company and might, for his
services as such, (in regard to which no question arises in this
case,) be entitled to other compensation, as none had been
specified in the contract between the parties.

Judgment aflrmed.

In Nos. 307 and 308, between the same parties, and argued at
the same time, the facts are similar, and the judgments are likewise
Affirmed.

SCOTT v. iEELY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 314. Argued April 15, 16, 1891.-Decided April 27, 1891.

The Circuit Court of the United States in Mississippi cannot, under the
operation of sections 1843 and 1845 of the Code of Mississippi of 1880,
take jurisdiction of a bill in equity to subject the property of the defendants to the payment of a simple contract debt of one of them, in advance
of any proceedings at law, either to establish the validity and amount of
the debt, or to enforce its collection; in which proceedings the defendant
is entitled, finder the Constitution, to a trial by jury.
The general proposition that new equitable rights created by the States
may be enforced in the Federal courts is correct, but it is subject to the
qualification that such enforcement does not impair any right conferred,
or conflict with any prohibition imposed by the Constitution or laws of
the United States.
Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, distinguished from this case.
Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, explained and shown to contain nothing
sanctioning the enforcement in the Federal courts of any rights created
by state law, which impair the separation established by the Constitution
between actions for legal demands and suits for equitable relief.

SCOTT v. NTEELY.
Statement of the Case.

Tins was a suit in equity to subject to the payment of a
debt alleged to be due and owing to the complainants by the
defendant George Y Scott, certain property owned by him
and other property owned by his wife and codefendant, Lottie M. Scott. The material facts out of which it arose, so far
as is necessary for an intelligent consideration of the questions
discussed, may be briefly stated as follows
In 1873 the defendant George Y Scott was in partnership
with his brother, Charles Scott, in the practice of the law in
Bolivar County, Mississippi. Their practice is represented to
have been large and lucrative. They were also engaged in other
business, in which it is said they were successful, and that their
income from all sources was from twelve to fifteen thousand
dollars a year. In 1876 the brothers were of opinion that lands
in the Mississippi Delta would in the then near future become
valuable, and were therefore desirable as investments. They
accordingly made purchases of different tracts, and took deeds
of the lands to their respective wives. In some cases their
notes were given for part of the purchase money
In January, 1880, the brothers dissolved their law partnership, and a partition of the lands purchased was made between
their wives. Subsequently, during the same year, other lands
were purchased by George Y Scott, and the deeds taken m
the name of his wife. In 1881, he also purchased a large
tract, and took the deed in his own name, paying part of the
purchase money in cash, and giving his promissory notes for
the balance.
The lands thus purchased by him, and those held by his
wife, were greatly improved by him, and put in a high state
of cultivation, and valuable crops were raised on some of them.
In March, 1883, to enable him to carry on the "planting business" on these lands, he arranged what is termed "a line of
credit" with the firm of Brooks, Neely & Company, of Tennessee, the complainants herein, as factors and commission
merchants; they to furnish him supplies and money as needed,
and he to ship to them the cotton raised on the plantations, to
be sold by them, and the proceeds applied to the payment of
their advances. The dealings between Scott and the com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

plainants under this arrangement continued until July 6, 1885,
at which time he owed them a balance of $6264.89, on account,
and a note of $2000.
The present suit was commenced in March, 1886, to subject,
as stated above, the property owned by the defendant George
Y Scott and other property owned by his wife, to the payment of these sums with interest, and in aid thereof to set
aside as fraudulent the conveyances to the wife of the lands
purchased by her husband. Issue being joined on the replications to the answers by the defendants, testimony was taken,
and upon the pleadings and proofs the case was heard by the
District Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Mississippi, exercising the powers of a Circuit Court. It
was adjudged and decreed that certain parcels of the lands,
which were described, were subject to the debt due the complainants, and that they had a lien for the same from the date
of filing their bill, which debt, from the report of the master,
was found to be $8547.89. It was also decreed that the
defendant George Y Scott pay that sum within thirty days,
and in default thereof that a commissioner of the court, appointed for that purpose and "clothed with the title to said
lands," proceed to advertise them, or a sufficiency thereof, and
sell the same to the highest bidder for cash, and report his proceedings to the court. From this decree the defendants appealed to this court.
.M

Edward .Xiayes for appellants.

X2Lr "IV Y Sullivan for appellees. M' F A. 27fontgomery
was with him on the brief.
MR. JusTici

FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to subject the property of the defendants to the payment of a simple contract debt of one of
them, in advance of any proceedings at law, either to establish
the validity and amount of the debt, or to enforce its collection.
It is founded upon sections 1843 and 1845 of the Code of

SCOTT v. NEELY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mississippi of 1880, being parts of the chapter which treats of
the Chancery Courts of the State. They are as follows
"SEC. 1843. The said courts shall have jurisdiction of bills
exhibited by creditors, who have not obtained judgments at
law, or having judgments, have not had executions returned
unsatisfied, to set aside fraudulent conveyances of property, or
other devices resorted to for the purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors, and may subject the property
to the satisfaction of the demands of such creditors, as if
complainant had a judgment and execution thereon returned
'no property found.'
"SEc. 1845. The creditor in such case shall have a lien upon
the property described therein from the filing of his bill,
except as against bona flde purchasers before the service of
process upon the defendant in such bill."
At the outset of the case the question is presented, whether
a suit of this kind, where the complainant is a simple contract
creditor, can be maintained in the courts of the United States.
It is sought to uphold the affirmative of this position on the
ground that the statute of Mississippi creates a new equitable
right in the creditor, which, being capable of assertion by proceedings in conformity with the pleadings and practice in
equity, will be enforced in those courts. The cases of Clarkv. Smith, 13 Pet. 195, Broderwk's TFill, 21 Wall. 503, and
Holland v COallen, 110 U. S. 15, are cited in its support.
The general proposition, as to the enforcement in the Federal courts of new equitable rights created by the States, is
undoubtedly correct, subject, however, to this qualification,
that such enforcement does not impair any right conferred, or
conflict with any inhibition imposed, by the Constitution or
laws of the United States. Neither such right nor such inhibition can be in any way impaired, however fully the new
equitable right may be enjoyed or enforced in the States by
whose legislation it is created. The Constitution, in its Seventh
Amendment, declares that "in suits at common law, where the
value in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars, the right of
trial by jury shall be preserved." In the Federal courts this
right cannot be dispensed with, except by the assent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

parties entitled to it, nor can it be impaired by any blending
with a claim, properly cognizable at law, of a demand for
equitable relief in aid of the legal action or during its pendency
Such aid in the Federal courts must be sought in separate proceedings, to the end that the right to a trial by a jury in the
legal action may be preserved intact.
In the case before us the debt due the complainants was in
no respect different from any other debt upon contract, it was
the subject of a legal action only, in which the defendants were
entitled to a j.ury trial in the Federal courts. Uniting with a,
demand for its payment, under the statute of Mississippi, a,
proceeding to set aside alleged fraudulent conveyances of the
defendants, did not take that right from them, or in any respect impair it.
This conclusion finds support m the prohibition of the law
of Congress respecting suits in equity The 16th section of
the Judiciary act of 1789 enacted that such suits "shall not be
sustained in either of the courts of the United States, in any
case where plain, adequate and complete remedy may be had
at law," and this prohibition is carried into the Revised
Statutes. Sec. 723. It is declaratory of the rule obtaining
and controlling in equity proceedings from the earliest period
in England, and always in this country And so it has been
often adjudged that whenever, respecting any right violated,
a court of law is competent to render a judgment affording a
plain, adequate and complete remedy, the party aggrieved
must seek his remedy in such court, not only because the defendant has a constitutional right to a trial by jury, but because
of the prohibition of the act of Congress to pursue his remedy
in such cases in a court of equity
Mpp v Babrn, 19 How
271, 278, Zew8 v Cocks, 23 Wall. 466, 470,
illian v MEbznghaus, 110 U S. 568, 573, Buzard v HIouston, 119 U S. 347,
351. All actions which seek to recover specific property, real
or personal, with or without damages for its detention, or a
money judgment for breach of a simple contract, or as damages for injury to person or property, are legal actions, and
can be brought in the Federal courts only on their law side.
Demands of this kind do not lose their character as claims

SCOTT v. NEELY.
Opinion of the Court.

cognizable in the courts of the United States only on their law
side, because in some state courts, by virtue of state legislation, equitable relief in aid of the demand at law may be
sought in the same action. Such blending of remedies is not
permissible in the courts of the United States.
In Bennett v Butterworth, 11 How 669, 674, in commenting upon the practice prevailing in the courts of Texas, Mr.
Chief Justice Taney, after observing that although the common law had been adopted in Texas, the forms and rules of
pleading in common law cases had been abolished, and the
parties were at liberty to set out their respective claims and
defences in any form that would bring them before the court,
said "Although the forms of proceedings and practice in the
state courts have been adopted in the District Court, yet the
adoption of the state practice must not be understood as confounding the principles of law and equity, nor as authorizing
legal and equitable claims to be blended together in one suit.
The Constitution of the United States, in creating and defining
the judicial power of the general government, establishes this
distinction between law and equity, and a party who claims a
legal title must proceed at law, and may undoubtedly proceed
according to the forms of practice in such cases in the state
court. But if the claim is an equitable one, he must proceed
according to rules which this court has prescribed, (under the
authority of the act of August 23d, 1842,) regulating proceedings in equity in the courts of the United States."
This decision was followed in Thompson, v R-ailroad Conpanzes, 6 Wall. 134, 137, the court there observing that "the
remedies in the courts of the United States are, at common law
or in equity, not according to the practice of the state courts,
but according to the principles of common law and equity, as
distinguished and defined in that country from which we derive our knowledge of these principles," citing also to that
effect the case of Robinson v Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212. In
Fenn v Holme, 21 How 481, 484, 486, the same doctrine was
affirmed.
The Code of Mississippi gives to a simple contract creditor
a right to seek in eqUity, in advance of any judgment or legal

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

proceedings upon his contract, the removal of obstacles to the
recovery of his claim caused by fraudulent conveyances of
property There the whole suit, involving the determination
of the validity of the contract, and the amount due thereon,
is treated as one in equity, to be heard and disposed of without a trial by jury It is not for us to express any opinion
of the wisdom of this law, or whether or not in its operation
it is more advantageous in the interests of justice than an
entire separation of proceedings at law from those for equitable relief. It is sufficient that under the statute of the United
States such separation is required in the Federal courts, and
by the Constitution, in cases at common law, a right to a
trial by jury is secured to the defendant.
The attempt is made to assimilate the enforcement of the
state law in the Federal courts in the same manner as in the
state courts, to proceedings in suits to enforce mortgages,
and other liens upon property, created by contract as security
for loans and advances. _o jury, it is said, is required in
those suits to ascertain the amount due on the mortgage debt,
and why, it is asked, should there be any jury in the case
under the state statute-that giving a lien for the debt
claimed by the filing of the bill to set aside the fraudulent
conveyances of the debtor. The distinction between the cases
is plain, and will be obvious from a brief statement of their
nature. A mortgage is in form a conveyance vesting in the
mortgagee a conditional estate which becomes absolute on
the non-performance of the condition. Originally, at law, it
carried the rights and incidents of ownership, although at an
early day equity gave to the mortgagor, even after breach
of condition, a right to recover the property from forfeiture,
upon payment of the debt or obligation secured, within a prescribed period. The ancient law as to the character of the
instrument still prevails in some of the States, but in a majority of them this has been changed from a consideration of the
object of the instrument and the intention of the parties, and
it is there regarded as a mere lien upon or pledge of the property for the payment of the debt or the performance of the
obligation stated. Whatever character may be ascribed to it

SCOTT v. NEELY.
Opinion of the Court.

from its form, it has always been treated by courts of equity
.as intended for security, and is enforced by them solely to
give effect to that intention. Hutchuts v King, 1 Wall. 53.
The debt or obligation, to secure which it is given, is stated in
the instrument itself, and the only proceeding with reference
to its amount is one of calculation as to the interest thereon,
or as to what remains due after credit of payments; and it is
only to ascertain this that .a reference is made to an accountant, usually a master in chancery, and not to try the validity
,of the debt or obligation secured. The equitable suit is to
enforce the application of the property to the purposes intended
by the contract of the' parties. In the case at bar, under the
statute of Mississippi, there is no amount stated by the defendant as due, which is secured by any lien on property executed
by him, and that amount is uncertain, not resting in mere
calculation of interest or in the application of credits, but upon
proof of the existence and validity of the alleged contract
between the parties. In all cases where a court of equity
interferes to aid the enforcement of a remedy at law, there
must be an acknowledged debt, or one established by a judgment rendered, accompanied by a right to the appropriation
of the property of the debtor for its payment, or, to speak
with greater accuracy, there must be, in addition to such acknowledged or established debt, an interest in the property or
-a lien thereon created by contract or by some distinct legal
proceeding. Smith v. Railroad Co., 99 U. S. 398, 401, .Angell
v .Draper, 1 Vern. 398, 399, Shirley v Watts, 3 Atk. 200;
IFiggins v Arrmstrong, 2 Johns. Ch. 144, 2fcBlwarn v Willis,
9 Wend. 548, 556, Crmppen v Hudson, 3 Kernan, 161, Jones
v Green, I Wall. 330.
InWiggins v Armstrong, Chancellor Kent held that a creditor
at large, or before judgment, was not entitled to the mnterference of a court of equity by injunction to prevent the debtor
from disposing of his property in fraud of the creditor, citing
some of the above authorities, and stating that the reason of
the rule seemed to be that until the creditor had established
his title he had no right to interfere, and it would lead to
unnecessary and perhaps a fruitless and oppressive mterrupVOL. CXm-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of the debtor's rights,, adding, "unless he has a certain
claim upon the property of the debtor he has no concern with
his frauds."
It is the existence, before the suit in equity is instituted, of
a lien upon or interest in the property, created by contract or
by contribution to its value by labor or material, or by judicial
proceedings had, which distinguishes cases for the enforcement
of such lien or interest from the case at bar.
Upon the contention of the complainants it is not perceived
why all actions at law, even for injuries to persons or property,
may not be withdrawn by the State from a court of law to a
court of equity, by allowing a lien upon the property of the
defendants on the issue of process at the commencement of
the action, and authorizing the court to direct a sale of the
whole or a portion thereof, in its discretion, to pay the damages
recovered, and to set aside any obstacles to their satisfaction
from fraudulent conveyances of the wrong-doer. Whatever
control the State may exercise over proceedings in its own
courts, such a union of legal and equitable relief in the same
action is not allowed in the practice of the Federal courts.
As to the cases to which we are referred, Clark v. Smith,
13 Pet. 195, and Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15, a few words
only need be said.
In the first case the act of Kentucky of '196 had provided
that "any person having both legal title to and possession of
land may institute a suit against any other person setting up
a claim thereto, and if the complainant shall be able to establish his title to such land, the defendant shall be decreed ta
release his claim thereto, and pay the complainant his costs,
unless the defendant shall, by answer, disclaim all title to such
lands, and offer to give such release to the complainant, in
which case the complainant shall pay to the defendant his
costs, except, for special reasons appearing, the court should
otherwise decree."
The validity of this law was sustained, the court observing
that "the state legislatures certainly have no authority to prescribe the forms and modes of proceeding in the courts of the
United States, but, having created a right, and at the same

SCOTT v. NEELY.
Opinion of the Court.

time prescribed the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy prescribed is substantially consistent with the ordinary modes of
proceeding on the chancery side of the Federal courts, no reason exists why it should not be pursued in the same form as it
is in the state courts." To this view there can be no possible
objection, nor can there be to the enforcement in the Federal
courts of the right created. The statute simply enlarged the
cases in which, without it, bills to quiet title could be maintained m the courts of the United States. Previously to its
passage, in order to maintain such suit, it was necessary that
the title of the plaintiff should be established by successive
judgments in his favor. Upon that appearing, he being in
possession of the property, courts of equity would interpose
and grant a perpetual injunction to quiet his possession against
any further litigation. That statute only did away with the
necessity for the previous adjudications at law in favor of his
right, it being delared sufficient to call into exercise the
powers of a court of equity that he was in possession of the
land and of the title, and was disquieted by the assertion of a
claim to the property by the defendant.
In the second.case, .olland v C}Mallen, the suit was broug~ht
to quiet the title of the plaintiff to certain real property in
Nebraska., against the claim of the defendant to an adverse
estate in the premises. It was founded upon a statute of that
State which provided "That an action may be brought and
prosecuted to final decree, judgment or order by any person
or persons, whether in actual possession or not, claiming title
to real estate, against any person or persons who claim an
adverse estate or interest therein, for the purpose of determining such estate or interest and quieting the title of such real
estate."
In that suit neither party was in possession, and the jurisdiction was maintained in equity, as no remedy in such case could
be afforded in an action at law As we there said, speaking
of unoccupied lands "It is a matter of every-day observation
that many lots of land in our cities remain unimproved because
of conflicting claims to them. The rightful owner of a parcel
in this condition hesitates to place valuable improvements

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

upon it, and others are unwilling to purchase it, much less to
erect buildings upon it, with the certainty of litigation and
possible loss of the whole. And what is true of lots in cities,
the ownership of which is in dispute, is equally true of large
tracts of land in the country The property in this case, to
quiet the title to which the present suit is brought, is described
in the bill as unoccupied, wild and uncultivated land. Few
persons would be willing to take possession of such land,
enclose, cultivate and improve it, in the face of a disputed
claim to its ownership. The cost of such improvements would
probably exceed the value of the property
An action for
ejectment for it would not lie, as it has no occupant, and if,
as contended by defendant, no relief can be had in equity
because the party claiming ownership is not in possession, the
land must continue in its unimproved condition. It is mamfestly for the interest of the community that conflicting claims
to property thus situated should be settled, so that it may be
subjected to use and improvement.
To meet cases of this
character, statutes, like the one of :Nebraska, have been passed
by several States, and they accomplish a most useful purpose.
A-nd there is no good reason why the right to relief against an
admitted obstruction to the cultivation, use and improvement
of lands thus situated in. the States should not be enforced by
the Federal courts, when the controversy to which it may give
rise is between citizens of different States."
It was objected in. that case that if the suit was allowed
under the statute in the Federal courts, controversies properly
cognizable in a court of law would be drawn into a court of
equity, but the court said
"There can be no controversy at law respecting the title to
or right of possession of real property when neither of the parties is in possession. An action at law, whether in the ancient
form of ejectment or in the form now commonly used, will lie
only against a party in possession. Should suit be brought in
the Federal court, under the Nebraska statute, against a party
in possession, there would be force in the objection that a legal
controversy was withdrawn from a court of law"
There is nothing in that decision that gives sanction to the

BIRDSEYE v. SO{A EFFER.
Statement of the Case.

enforcement in the Federal courts of any rights created by
state law which impair the separation there required between
actions for legal demands and suits for equitable relief.
In the subsequent case of Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S.
146, Holland v. Challen was referred to and explained, and
it was said that a suit in equity for real property against a
party in possession would not be sustained, because there
would be a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law for the
plaintiff, and that it was only intended to uphold the statute
so far as suits in the Federal courts were concerned, in authorizing such suits against persons not in possession.
It follows from the views expressed that the court below
could not take jurisdiction of this suit, in which a claim properly cognzable only at law is united in the same pleadings
with a claim for equitable relief. Its decree must therefore be
Reversed, and the cause ''emnanded witA directions-to dismiss
the bill, without prejudice to an actzon at law for the
demand clamed, and it ss so ardered.
MR. JUSTICE LA-Aii did not sit in this case nor take any
part m its decision.

BIRDSEYE v. SCHAEFFER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 920. Submitted April 20, 1891. -Decided

April 27, 1891.

It is again decided that an order remanding a cause from a Circuit Court of
the United States to the state court from which it was removed, is not
a final judgment or decree which this court has jurisdiction to review.

THIS cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas prior to the passage
of the act of March 3, 1887, providing that no appeal or writ
of error from the decision of the Circuit Court remanding a
cause to a state court from which it had been removed, should
be allowed. The order remanding the cause to the state court

