OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

nn re DELGADO, Petitioner.
APPEAL

FROM THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.

No. 1648. Argued April 22, 1891.-

Decided May 25,1891.

A statute providing that "for the. purpose of having application for and
issuing writs of mandamus," the court "shall be regarded as open at all
times" authorizes a hearing on the return of the alternative writ, and
the issue of a peremptory writ in vacation.
A statute limiting the fine to'be imposed for violation of a peremptory writ
of mandamus, and providing that, when paid, it shall be a bar to an
action for any penalty incurred by reason of refusal or neglect to perform the duty, does not deprive the court of power to punish for disobedience of the writ, or to compel obedience by imprisonment.
In case of a disputed election to a municipal office, mandamus may issue to
compel the recognition of the de facto officer until the rights of the parties can be determined on quo warranto.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

X1' William . Springer and _Pr Thomas Smith for petitioner. -Mr C. H Gildersleeve was also on the brief.
Mr John H ffnaebal opposing. -r E. L. Bartlett,Solicitor General of New Mexico, was also on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 13th of. January, 1891, Abraham Staab, William H.
Nesbitt and Juan Garcia filed in the District Court of the
First Judicial District of the Territory of New Mexico, and
presented to the judge thereof, their petition, in which they
set forth certain facts, showing, as they claimed, that they had
been elected, at the general election in November preceding,
members of the board of county commissioners of Santa F6
County, in the Territory of New Mexico, and further alleged
that on the 2d day of January, 1891, they had duly qualified
as such commissioners, that at the same election Pedro Del-

IlN RE DELGADO.
Opinion of the Court.

gado had been duly elected probate clerk of said county, and
had qualified as such officer, that by virtue thereof he became
and was the acting clerk of the board of county commissioners, and had possession of the records, books, files and papers
of that office, that after their qualification as such board they
demanded of him to produce the books, and to record their
proceedings as such board, and that he refused so to do or to
in any manner recognize them as the board of county commissioners. They prayed that a writ of mandamus might issue,
commanding him to recognize them as the board of county
commissioners, that he act with them as such board, and that
he enter of record their proceedings as a board. Upon this
petition an alternative writ was issued, and on the 15th day
of January, in obedience to such writ, appellant appeared and
filed his answer, alleging facts, which, as he claimed, showed
that three other persons were at the November election elected
county commissioners, and that the petitioners were not, and
further averring that two of those other persons, on the 1st of
January, 1891, duly qualified as members of the board of
county commissioners, entered into possession and assumed the
duties of such office, met on that day in the court-house of the
county as the board of county commissioners, and proceeded
to transact the business of the county, and that they were
still in possession of their offices of county commissioners. He
admitted that he refused to recognize the petitioners as a board
of county commissioners, and alleged as his reason therefor
that they were not the legally elected commissioners, and had
never been in possession of such offices. On the same day,
January 15, the matter came on to be heard on these pleadings, and a peremptory mandamus was ordered, commanding
the appellant that he record on the records of the county the
proceedings of the petitioners as the board of county commissioners of the county; and that in all things he recognize them
as the only lawful county commissioners of the county Disobeying the peremptory writ, he was brought up on an attachment for contempt, and committed to jail until he should
purge himself thereof by obeying the writ. Instead of taking
steps to review this judgment directly, by proceedings in error

OCTOBER TERM:, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in the Supreme Court of the Territory, appellant, on the 23d
of January, filed in that court a petition for a writ of habeas
cowpus. On January 31 a hearing was had thereon, and it
was denied, from which judgment this appeal has been taken
to this court.
The attack upon the contempt proceedings is in a collateral
way by habeas corpus, and the inquiry is one of jurisdiction.
Exparte Watkins, 3 ret. 193, 203, Exjparte Pars,93 U. S.
18, Ex _parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, Cuddy, Petitioner,
131 U. S. 280, 285, 286, in, re Wilson, ante, 575. In Expartk
Yarbrough one question was as to the conformity of the indictment to the provisions of the statute, and it was held that it
"cannot be looked into on a writ of habeas corpus limited to
an inquiry into the existence of jurisdiction on the part of that
court."
This narrows the range of inquiry It is objected that the
peremptory writ was void, because ordered in vacation by the
judge, and not after trial before a jury, in the court, in term
time. Section 2005, Comp. Laws of the Territory, provides
"For the purpose of hearing application for and issuing writs
of mandamus the District Court shall be regarded as open at
all times wherever the judge of such court may be within the
Territory"
This section gives full authority for these proceedings. The original application was entitled "in the court,"
though addressed to the judge, as was proper. The hearing
and judgment were by the court, and the peremptory mandamus was issued by direction of the court, and the power of
the legislature to provide that the court shall always be open
for certain purposes, cannot be doubted. A somewhat similar
provision has been made for the Circuit Courts of the United
States in respect to the supervision of elections. Rev Stat.
section 2013. While no jury was had, apparently, none was
demanded, and the determination of the facts by a jury in a
mandamus case is not a necessary preliminary to a valid judgment.
Again, it is objected that the punishment is different from
that permissible in cases of mandamus, and section 2002 of the
Compiled Laws is cited. That reads as follows "Whenever

IN RE DELGADO.
Opmion of the Court.

a peremptory mandamus isdirected to a public officer, body
or board, commanding the performance of any public duty
specially enjoined by law, if it appears to the court that such
officer or any member -of such body or board, without just
excuse, refuses or neglects to perform the duty so enjoined, the
court may impose a fine not exceeding $250, upon every such
officer or member of such body or board, such fine, when collected, shall be paid into the Territorial treasury, and the payment of such fine is a bar to an action for any penalty incurred
by such officer, or member of such body or board, by reason of
his refusal or neglect to perform the duty so enjoined." But
that section provides for the wrong done by the party, in failing to discharge the duty imposed, and does not exclude the
power of the court to punish for disobedience of the writ, or
to compel obedience to the writ by imprisonment until compliance. The section quoted was taken from the legislation of
the State of New York, 2 N. Y Rev. Stat. 5811, section 60;
and the scope of that section was considered by the New York
Court of Appeals in People ex rel. v. Railroad Com2pany, '76
N. Y 294. In that case the court thus interpreted the section. "We do not think that this provision was intended to
prescribe the punishment for disobeying the writ, but that its
object was to authorize the court to whom application should
be made for a writ of mandamus against a public officer, body
or board, to compel the performance of a public duty specially
enjoined by law, to impose a fine upon the officer, etc., for
past neglect of the duty, in addition to awarding a peremptory
mandamus compelling its performance, providing no just
excuse is shown for such past neglect. This power of the
court granting the mandamus, to fine for past neglect, was
intended to obviate the necessity of a criminal prosecution
under the statute which constitutes such neglect a misdemeanor, and to enable the court awarding the mandamus to
dispose of the whole matter in one proceeding. The offence
for which the fine is authorized to be imposed, is not disobedience of the writ, but the unexcused neglect of duty of which
the officer was guilty before the writ issued and which rendered the application necessary, and the fine may be imposed

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time of issuing the peremptory writ. This is the clear
import of the language of the section, and in the revisers'
notes it is stated to be a new provision, intended for the purpose above indicated."
This brings us to the principal question in the case, and
that is, that the real import of this proceeding was to try the
title to office, that quo wam-anto is a plain, speedy and adequate, as well as the recognized remedy for trying the title to
office, and that the familiar law in respect to mandamus, reinforced by statutory provisions in New M'.exico, is that mandamus shall not issue in any case where there is a plain, speedy
and adequate remedy at law. On this, the invalidity of the
proceedings is asserted. But the obvious reply is, that this
was not a proceeding to try the title to office. The direct
purpose and object was to compel the defendant to discharge
his duties as clerk, andto forbid him to assume to determine
any contest between rival commissioners. It was enough in
this case for the court to determine, and it must be assumed
that the evidence placed before it was sufficient to authorize
an adjudication, that the petitioners were commissioners de
facto. As such, the clerk was bound to obey their commands
and record their proceedings. It is true, the pleadings disclose the existence of a contest between these petitioners and
other parties, and it is true that the answer would tend to show
that the others were the commissioners defacto, but that was
a question of fact to be determined by the court hearing this
application, and it, as must be assumed from the decision,
found that these petitioners rather than their contestants were
the commissioners defacto. It was proper for it then to issue
a mandamus to compel the defendant to recognize them as the
commissioners of the county, and this, irrespective of the question whether or no the petitioners were also commissioners de
jure. No one would for a moment contend that this adjudication could be pleaded as an estoppel in quo warranto proceedings between the several contestants. If that has not
already been determined in a suit to which all the contestants
are parties, it is still a matter open for judicial inquiry and
determination. Who would doubt, if these petitioners were

IN RE DELGADO.
Opinion of the Court.

the unquestioned commissioners of the county that mandamus
would lie to compel the clerk to recognize them, and record on
the county books their proceedings as such 2 Does the fact
that certain parties are contesting their rights as commissioners
oust the court of jurisdiction, or forbid it to compel other
county officers to recognize them? Must the office of county
commissioners remain practically vacant, and the affairs of the
county unadministered, pending a trial of a right of office
between contestants 2 Surely not, public interests forbid.
They require that the office should be filled, and that when
filled by parties under color of right, all other officers should
recognize them as commissioners until their right to hold the
office has been judicially determined adversely by proper quo
warrantoproceedings. It would be strange indeed if, when
their title and possession of the office were unquestioned, the
court had undoubted jurisdiction by mandamus to compel the
clerk of the board to record their proceedings, and recognize
them as officers, its jurisdiction to act was lost by a mere
pleading on the part of the delinquent clerk asserting that
some other parties were the rightful commissioners. This is
not a suit by one party claiming to be clerk of the board, to
compel by mandamus another party also claiming to be clerk
of the board to transfer to him the records and papers of the
office, nor by certain parties claiming to be commissioners, to
compel other parties also claiming to be commissioners to
surrender the office, and desist from interference with its
duties, but it is a suit by certain parties showing themselves
to be defacto commissioners, to compel the clerk of that board
to respect their possession of the office, discharge his duties as
clerk to the acting board, and not assume to himself judicial
functions, and adjudicate against the validity of their title.
The case of Putnam v Langley, 133 Mass. 204, is in point.
Plaintiff there claimed to have been elected one of the board
of water commissioners of the town of Danvers. One Josiah
Ross also claimed to have been elected, and there was a matter
of disputed title between plaintiff and Ross. Langley and
Richards were the other commissioners, whose title was apparently undisputed. It was held that mandamus was a proper

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

remedy to compel Langley and Richards to recognize, receive
and act with the plaintiff as a member of the board. As sustaiming the views we have expressed, though not exactly in
point, see also R-ex v. -Harms,3 Burrow, 1420, Page v Hardin,
8 B. Mon. 648, State v .fayor, 23 Vroom, (54 N. J Law,)
332, Williams v. Clayton, Supreme Court of Utah, 21 Pac.
Rep. 398.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the District Court had
jurisdiction, and that the merits of the controversy cannot be
inquired into collaterally in this way The judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico is
Afflrmed.
Mn. JUsTIcE BRADLEY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

KNEELAND v. BASS FOUNDRY AND MACHINE

WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 334.

Submitted April 22,1891. - Decided May 25,1891.

Necessary supplies purchased on credit by the receiver of a railroad, appointed in foreclosure proceedings, if not paid out of net earnings before
the sale, are a charge upon the fund realized from the foreclosure sale;
and where the railroad managed by the receiver consists of two or more
divisions, which are sold separately and at different times to different
purchasers, it will be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the court below has correctly distributed such charges among
the different divisions to which they properly belong.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Jl& Jon 21.. B tler for appellant.
.2r Robert C. Bell for appellee.

