GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLASD R'D CO.
Statement of the Case.

out such compliance, and, of course, no suit in equit to restrain any future use of the label. Rev Stat. ยง 4962, Theaton
v Peters, 8 Pet. 591, Callaghanv .Myers, 128 U. S. 617, 652.

Decree affirmed.

GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLAND
COMPANY

RAILROAD

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUBMIA.
No. 287. Argued April 6, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A land slide in a railway cut, caused by an ordinary fall of ram, is not an
"act of God" which will exempt the railway company from liability
to passengers for injuries caused thereby while being carried on the

railway.
It is the duty of a railway company to so construct the banks of its cuts
that they will not slide by reason of the action of ordinary natural
causes, and by inspection and care to see that they are kept in such
condition, and the failure to do so is negligence, which entails liability
for mjuries to passengers caused by their giving way.
An accident to a passenger on a railway caused by the train coming in
contact with a land slide, raises, when shown, a presumption of negligence on the part of the railway company, and throws upon it the burden
of showing that the slide was in fact the result of causes beyond its
control.

Tins is an action for damages brought in the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia. It appears from the bill of exceptions that at the trial the evidence introduced by the plaintiff
tended to show that in January, 1882, he was a railway postal
clerk, in the service of the United States Post Office Department, that on Sunday, the 15th of that month, in the discharge of his official duty, he was making the run from
Washington to Danville, Virginia, in a postal car of the defendant, and over its road, that in the course of such run
the train was in part derailed by a land slide which occurred
in a railway cut, and the postal car in which the plaintiff was
at work was thrown from the track upon the tender, killing
the engineer and seriously injuring the fireman, and that the

.436

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

plaintiff, while thus engaged in performing his duty, was
thrown violently forward by the force of the collision, striking against a stove and a letter-box, three of his ribs being
broken, and his head on the left side contused, which injuries
are claimed to have permanently impaired his physical strength,
weakened his mind and led to his dismissal from his office,
because of his inability to discharge its duties.
Defence was made by the company under these propositions:
that the land slide was caused by a rain which had fallen a
few hours previous, and therefore was the act of God, that
it was a sudden slide, caused by the vibration of the train
itself, and which, therefore, the company was not chargeable
with, since it had, two hours before, ascertained that the track
was clear, and that the injury resulted from the plaintiff's
being thrown against the postal car's letter-box, for which the
company was not responsible, since he took the risk incident
to his employment.
At the close of the testimony, the court having given to
the jury certain instructions in accordance with the requests
of the plaintiff, charged the jury at defendant's request, as
follows
"I. The burden of proof is on the plaintiff to show that
the defendant was negligent, and that its negligence caused
the injury
"II. The jury are instructed that the plaintiff, when he
took the position of a postal clerk on the railroad, assumed
the risk and hazard attached to the position, and if, in the
discharge of his duties as such, he was injured through the
devices in and about the car in which he was riding, properly
constructed for the purpose of transporting the mails, the railroad is not liable for such injury unless the same were caused
by the negligent conduct of the company or its employes.
"III. The court instructs the jury that, whilst a large
degree of caution is exacted generally from railway companies
in order to avert accidents, the caution applies only to those
accidents which could be prevented or averted by human care
and foresight, and not to accidents occurring solely from the
act of God. If they believe that the track and instruments

GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLAND R'D CO.

437

Argument for Defendant in Error.

of the defendant were m good order, its officers sufficient.in
number and competent and that the accident did not result
from any deficiency in any of these requirements, but from a
slide of earth caused by recent rains, and that the agents and
servants of the company had good reason to believe that there
was no such obstruction in its track, and that they could not,
by exercise of great care and diligence, have discovered it in
time to avert the accident, then they should find for the
defendant.
"IV
If the jury believe from the evidence that the defendant's instruments, human and physical, were suitable and
qualified for the business in which it was engaged, that the
accident complained of was caused by the shaking down of
earth which had been loosened by the recent rains, and that
the earth was shaken down by the passing of this train, then
the accident was not such an act of negligence for which the
defendant would be responsible, and the jury should find for
the defendant."
The counsel for the plaintiff objected to the granting of the
first of these prayers, and asked the court to modify it by
adding the words "but -that the injury to the plaintiff upon
the car of the defendant, if the plaintiff was in the exercise
of ordinary care, isprtmafacme evidence of the company's liability" But the court refused to modify the said prayer, and
the plaintiff duly and severally excepted to the granting of
each one of said prayers on behalf of the defendant, and to
the refusal of the court to modify the said first prayer, as requested. The jury, so instructed, found for the defendant and
judgment was rendered accordingly That judgment having
been affirmed by the court m general term, (5 Mackey, 356,)
this writ of error was taken.
.Mr Guson Miller (with whom was -Mr Isaac H. Ford on
the brief) for plaintiff in error.
-Ur Itndn Kent for defendant in error.
There can be no question about the correctness of the law
as laid down by the court m the prayer as given. Does the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Defendant m Error.

modification requested by the counsel for the plaintiff, as a
separate and independent proposition, correctly state the law
applicable to this case 2
We say that it does not and there was no error in refusing it.
In other words, it was contended that notwithstanding the
fact that the proximate cause of the accident was an act of
God, still the burden of proof was upon the defendant to
show that it was not liable for the injury sustained by the
plaintiff.
Itis true that the presumption of negligence, from the sunple happening of the accident in which a passenger is injured,
may arise where the accident results from any defective
arrangement, mismanagement or misconstruction of the thing
over which the defendant has immediate control and for the
management, service and construction of which it is responsible,
or where the accident results from any omission or commission
on the part of the railroad company with respect to those matters entirely under its control. According to the current of authorities the presumption of negligence on the part of the defendant arises in such cases. le Barronv. East Boston Ferry
Co., 11 Allen, 312, 316, S.C. 87 Am. Dec. 717, Western Transportation Co. v Downer, 11 Wall. 129, Clarke v Barnwell, 12
How 272, 2 Redfield on Railways, 256, Shoemaker v Kingsbury, 12 Wall. 369, RailroadCompany v Reeves, 10 Wall. 176.
The injury in this case having resulted from an act of God
established as a fact, the _presumptwn of negligence from the
simple occurrence of the accident cannot arise. Railroad Co.
v Reeves, 10 Wall. 176, Gillespze v. St. Lowts & Kansas City
Railroad, 6 Missouri App. 554.
We submit that the immediate and proximate cause of the
accident having been disclosed as an act of God, it was not
error for the court to refuse to modify the first prayer of the
defendant by adding to it as applicable to this case the words
" But that the snjury to the plaintifupon the car of the defendant, if the plazntiff was in the exercise of ordinary care, is
primaface evdence of the company's liability."
To have given the modification asked in the light of the
plaintiff's testimony would have been practically to have said

GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLAND R'D 00.
Opinion of the Court.

to the jury, "It is true that the plaintiff has shown by his
testimony that the act of God was the proximate cause of the
injury, but I direct you to ignore these circumstances of this
case. It is only sufficient for you to know in this case that
an accident happened and the injury resulted, and that the
defendant is not only negligent but is liable for such injuries,
unless he can and has shown affirmatively that he was not
negligent." In this view the case is distinguished from the
-cases of Stokes v Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181, Railroad Co. v
Pollard,22 Wall. 341.
L
having made the foregoing statement,
MR. JusTIcE,tL,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It will be most convenient in the decision of this case to
consider the third instruction first. The objections made to
it are three
(1.) "It assumes that the accident was caused by an act of
God, in the sense in which that term is technically used." It
appears that the accident was caused by a land slide, which
occurred in a cut some fifteen or twenty feet deep. The
defendant gave evidence tending to prove that rain had fallen
on the afternoon of Friday and on the Saturday morning previous, and the claim is that the slide was produced by the
loosening of the earth by the rain. We do not think such an
ordinary occurrence is embraced by the technical phrase "an
act of God." There was no evidence that the rain was of
extraordinary character, or that any extraordinary results followed it. It was a common, natural event, such as not only
might have been foreseen as probable, but also must have
been foreknown as certain to come. Against such an event
it was the duty of the company to have guarded. Extraordinary floods, storms of unusual violence, sudden tempests,
severe frosts, great droughts, lightnings, earthquakes, sudden
deaths and illnesses, have been held to be "acts of God", but
we know of no instance in which a rain of not unusual violence, and the probable results thereof in softening the superficial earth, have been so considered. In Dorman v Ames,

OCTOBER TERIM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

12 M innesota, 451, it was held that a man is negligent if he
fail to take precautions against such rises of high waters as are
usual and ordinary, and reasonably to be anticipated at certain seasons of the year; and we think the same principle
applies to this case. Ewart v Street, 2 Bailey (S. 0.) 157,
162, .foffat v. Strong, 10 Johns. 11, _/ew Brunsww Steamboat Co. v Tiers, 4 Zabr. (24 N. J Law) 697, Great Wfesterr,
Railway v Brazd, 1 Moore P 0. (N. S.) 101.
(2.) The instruction does not hold the defendant "responsible for the condition of the sides of the cut made by it in
the construction of the road, the giving way of which caused
the accident." We think this objection is also well taken. The
railroad cut is as much a part of the railroad structure as is
the fill. They are both necessary and both are intended for
one result, which is the production of a level track over which
the trains may be propelled. The cut is made by the company no less than the fill, and the banks are not the result of
natural causes, but of the direct intervention of the company's
work. If it be the duty of the company (as it unquestionably
is) in the erection of the fills and the necessary bridges, to so.
construct them that they shall be reasonably safe, and to
maintain them in a reasonably safe condition, no reason can
be assigned why the same duty should not exist in regard to_
the cuts. Just as surely as the laws of gravity will cause a
heavy train to fall through a defective or rotten bridge to the
destruction of life, just so surely will those same laws cause
land slides and consequent dangerous obstructions to the track
itself, from ill-constructed railway cuts. To all intents and
purposes a railroad track which runs through a cut where the
banks are so near and so steep that the usual laws of gravity
will bring upon the track the dibrs created by the common
processes of nature, is overhung by those banks. Ordinary
skill would enable the engineers to foresee the result, and
ordinary prudence should lead the company to guard against
it. To hold any other view would be to overbalance the
priceless lives of the travelling public by a mere item of
increased expense in the construction of railroads, and after
all, an item, in the great number of cases, of no great moment.

GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLAND R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

In a late case in the Queen's Bench Division, Tarry v Ash1on, 1 Q. B. D. 314, two out of three judges declared in substance that a man who, for his own benefit, suspends an object, or permits it to be suspended, over the highway, and puts
the public safety in peril thereby, is under an absolute duty
to keep it in such a state as not to be dangerous. The facts
of the case were these The defendant became the lessee and
occupier of a house, from the front of which a heavy lamp
projected several feet over the public foot pavement. As the
plaintiff was walking along in November, the lamp fell on her
and injured her. It appeared that in the previous August the
defendant employed an experienced gas-fitter to put the lamp
in repair. At the time of the accident a person employed by
defendant was blowing the water out of the gas-pipes of the
lamp, and in doing this a ladder was raised against the lampiron or bracket, from which the lamp hung, and on the man
mounting the ladder, owing to the wind and wet, the ladder

slipped, and he, to save himself, clung to the lamp-iron, and
the shaking caused the lamp to fall. On examination, it was
discovered that the fastening by which the lamp was attached
to the lamp-iron was in a decayed state. The jury found that
there had been negligence on the part of the defendant personally, that the lamp was out of repair through general
decay, but not to the knowledge of the defendant, that the
immediate cause of the fall of the lamp was the slipping of the
ladder, but that if the lamp had been in good repair, the slipping of the ladder would not have caused the fall. Upon this
it was held by Lush and Quain, JJ., that the plaintiff was entitled to a verdict on the ground that if a person maintains a
lamp projecting over the highway for his own purposes, it is
his duty to maintain it so as not to be dangerous to persons
passing by, and if it causes injuries, owing to a want of repair,
it is no answer on his part that he had employed a competent
man to repair it. 1 Thomp. on Negligence, 346-7.
The case of .Kearney v London, &c. Railway, L. R. 6 Q. B.
759, 762, 763, (in the Exchequer Chamber,) cited in the brief
of counsel for plaintiff in error, is directly in point. In that
case the plkamtiff- had been injured while walking along a pub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

lie highway, by a brick which fell from a pier of the defendant's bridge. A train had just passed, and the counsel for the
defendant submitted that there was no evidence of negligence.
The court (Kelly, Chief Baron,) says "There can be no
doubt that it was the duty of the defendants, who had
built this bridge over the highway, to take such care that,
where danger can be reasonably avoided, the safety of the public using the highway should be provided for. The question,
therefore, is, whether there was any evidence of negligence on
the part of the defendants, and by that we all understand
such an amount of evidence as to fairly and reasonably support
the finding of the jury The Lord Chief Justice, in his judgment in the court below, said, res 'psa loquztur, and I cannot
do better than to refer to that judgment. It appears, without contradiction, that a brick fell out of a pier of the bridge
without any assignable cause except the slight vibration caused
by a passing train. This, we think, is not only evidence, but
conclusive evidence, that it was loose, for otherwise so slight
a vibration could not have struck it out of its place.
The bridge had been built two or three years, and it was the
duty of the defendants from time to time to inspect the bridge,
and ascertain that the brickwork was in good order and all the
bricks well secured."
The principle of these decisions seems to us to be applicable
to this case. If such be the law as to persons who, for their
own purposes, cause projections to overhang the highway not
constructed by them, a fortor. must it be the law as to those
who, for their own purposes of profit, undertake to construct
the highway itself, and to keep it serviceable and safe, yet who
allow it to be practically overhung, from considerations of
economy or through negligence.
We think the case of the JFirgintaCentral Railroad Co.v
Sanger, 15 Grattan, 230, 237, to which we are referred by
counsel for plaintiff in error, is strongly illustrative of the
principle in this case, to which it bears a close resemblance.
Some rocks had been piled up alongside of the track for the
purpose of ballast, and some of them got upon the track,
causing the injury In rendering its opinion the court says

GLEESON v. VIRGINIA MIDLAND R'D CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"Combining in themselves the ownership, as well of the road
as of the cars and locomotives, they are bound to the most
exact care and diligence, not only in the management of the
trains and cars, but also in the structure and care of the track,
and all the subsidiary arrangements necessary to the safety of
the passengers. And as accidents as frequently arise from
obstructions on the track, as perhaps from any other cause
whatever, it would seem to follow, obviously, that there is no
one of the duties of a railroad company more clearly embraced
within its warranty to carry their passengers safely, as far as
human care and foresight will go, than the duty of employing
the utmost care and diligence in guarding their road against
such obstructions." See also .JXcElroy v. Nashua & Lowell
Railroad,4 Cush. 400, Hutchinson on Common Carriers, 524,
Bennett v. Railroad Co., 102 U. S. 571.
This view of the obligation of the company of course makes it
immaterial that the slide was suddenly caused by the vibration
of the train itself. It is not a question of negligence in failing
to remove the obstruction, but of negligence in allowing it to
get there.
We are also of the opinion that it was error to refuse to
modify the first instruction for the defendant as requested by
the plaintiff.
Since the decisions m Stokes v Saltonstall, 13 Pet. 181, and
RailroadCompany v Pollard,22 Wall. 341, it has been settled
law in this court that the happening of an injurious accident
is in passenger cases przma fane evidence of negligence on
the part of the carrier, and that, (the passenger being himself
in the exercise of due care,) the burden then rests upon the
carrier to show that its whole duty was performed, and that
the injury was unavoidable by human foresight. The rule
announced in those cases has received general acceptance,
and was followed at the present term in Inland & Seaboard
Coasting Co. v. Tolson, 139 U. S. 551.
The defendant seeks to uphold the action of the court m
refusing the modification prayed for, by distinguishing the
case at bar. It attempts to make two distinctions
1. That the operation of the rule is confined to cases "where

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.

the accident results from any defective arrangement, mismanagement or misconstruction of things over which the
defendant has immediate control, and for the management,
service and construction of which it is responsible, or where
the accident results from any omission or commission on the
part of the railroad company with respect to these matters
entirely under its control."
2. That the injury from an act of God is established as a
fact, wherefore the presumption of negligence from the occurrence of the accident cannot arise.
Neither of these attempted distinctions is sound, since, as
has been shown, the defect was in the construction of that
over which the defendant did have control and for which it
was responsible, and since the slide was not caused by the act
of God, in any admissible sense of that phrase. Moreover, if
these distinctions were sound, still, as a matter of correct
practice, the modification should have been made.
The law is that the plaintiff must show negligence in the
defendant. This is done prmnfate by showing, if the plaintiff be a passenger, that the accident occurred. If that accident was in fact the result of causes beyond the defendant's
responsibility, or of the act of God, it is still none the less true
that the plaintiff has made out his yrtna faeo case. When
he proves the occurrence of the accident, the defendant must
answer that case from all the circumstances of exculpation,
whether disclosed by the one party or the other. They are
its matter of defence. And it is for the jury to say, in the
light of all the testimony, and under the instructions of tho
court, whether the relation of cause and effect did exist, as
claimed by the defence, between the accident and the Llleged,
exonerating circumstances. But when the court refuses to
so frame the instructions as to present the rule in respect to.
the przmc facte case, and so refuses on either of the grounds
by which the refusal is sought to be supported herein, it leaves
the jury without instructions to which they are entitled to aid
them in determining what were the facts and causes of the
accident and how far those facts were or were not within the
control of the defendant. This is error.

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY.
Statement of the Case.

Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with direction to
order a new trial, and to take further _proceedings not
sneonswtent with thms optnton.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissented from the opinion and judgment in this case, on the ground that it is in contravention of
the long established rules as to what may be considered on an
incomplete record.

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. =38.Argued April 23, 189i.-Decided May 11, 1S91.

An application for rehearing, made after the adjournment of the term at
which the final decree was entered, is made too late.
A decree which determines the whole controversy between the parties,
leaving nothing to be done except to carry it into execution, is a final
decree for the purpose of appeal, and none the less so that the court
retains the fund in controversy, for the purpose of distributing it as
decreed.

ON the 11th of October, 1875, Robert J.Glendy executed a
deed of trust to Alexander F Mathews on a tract of land in
Greenbrier County, West Virginia, to secure his two certain
promissory notes for $10,000 and $5000, respectively, held by
the Bank of Lewisburg, and also "any and all other debts
which the said Glendy may at any time hereafter owe to said
bank, either by the renewal of the said negotiable notes or by
original loans made to him by the said Bank of Lewisburg,
with this express provision and stipulation, however, that the
said indebtedness shall not at any one time exceed the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000)."
On the 20th of November, 1876, Glendy executed another
trust deed to Hugh W Sheffey and James Bumgardner, Jr.,
of the county of Augusta, State of Virginia, covering the
same lands, and also several tracts or parcels of land situated

