OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

-would procure and deliver renewal notes as before proposed,
and nothing being then said as to an agreement for an extension of time, or as to the effect of the payment of interest.
No present agreement for an extension of time can be inferred
from the mere payment of interest under such circumstances.
The necessary conclusion from the facts found is, that the
plaintiff never agreed to extend payment of the old notes,
except upon receiving new ones signed by both makers, which
were never given, and that the payment of interest has no
effect upon the case, except, as admitted .m the complaint, by
way of deduction from the amount that the plaintiff is entitled
to recover.
Judgment-reversed, and case remanded with directions to
enter udgment for the palmtif on the second andfourth
counts.

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v.
CLEMENTS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 340. Argued April 23, 24,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
A policy of insurance, executed in New York by a New York corporation
doing business in Missouri, upon an application signed in Missouri by a
resident of Missouri, made part of the contract, and declaring that it
"shall not take effect until the first premium shall have been actually
paid during the life of the person proposed for assurance," and which is
delivered, and the first premium paid, in Missouri, is, in the absence of
evidence of the company's acceptance of the application in New York,
a Missouri contract, and governed by the laws of Missouri.
The Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, §§ 5983-5986, establish a rule of
commutation upon default in payment of premium after two premiums
have been paid on a policy of life insurance, winch cannot be varied or
waived by express provision in the contract, except in the cases specified
in those statutes.

THIs was an action brought by Alice L. Wall, a citizen of
Missouri and widow of Samuel E. Wall, and prosecilted by

EQUITABLE LIFE SOOIETY v. OLEEiENTS.

227

Statement of the Case.

iBenjamin F Pettus, her administrator, against the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United States, a corporation of
:New York and doing business in Missouri, on a policy of insurance executed by the defendant at its office in the city of
New York on December 23, 1880, upon the life of Samuel E.
Wall, by which, in consideration of the payment of $136.25
by him, and of the payment of a like sum on or before December 15 in each year during the continuance of the contract, it
promised to pay to Alice L. Wall, his wife, $5000 at its office
in the city of New York, within sixty days after satisfactory
proofs of his death.
"And further, that if the premiums upon this policy for not
less than three complete years of assurance shall have been
duly received by said society, and this policy should thereafter
become void in consequence of default of payment of a subsequent premium, said society will issue, in lieu of such policy, a
new paid-up policy, without participation in profits, in favor
of said Alice L. Wall, if living," "for the entire amount which
the full reserve on this policy, according to the present legal
standard of the State of New York, will then purchase as a
single premium, calculated by the regular table for singlepremium policies now published and in use by the societyProvided, however, that this policy shall be surrendered, duly
receipted, within six months of the date of default in the payment of premium, as mentioned above.
"This policy is issued and accepted upon the condition that
the provisions and requirements printed or written by the
society upon the back of this policy are accepted by the
assured as part of this contract as fully as if they were recited
at length over the signatures hereto affixed."
Among the provisions and requirements printed on the back
of the policy were the following "4. All premiums are due in the city of New York, at the
date named in the policy, but at the pleasure of the society
suitable persons may be authorized to receive such payments
at other places, but only on the production of the society's
receipt therefor, signed by the president, vice-president, actuary, secretary or assistant secretary, and countersigned by the

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

person to whom the payment is made. No payment made to
any person, except in exchange for such receipt, will be recognized by the society All premiums are considered payable
annually in advance, when the premium is made payable in
semi-annual or quarterly instalments, that part of the year's
premiums, if any, which remains unpaid at the maturity of
this contract, shall be regarded as an indebtedness to the
society on account of this contract, and shall be deducted
from the amount of the claim, and if any premium or instalment of a premium on this policy shall not be-paid when due,
this policy shall be void, nevertheless nothing herein shall be
construed to deprive the holder of this policy of the privilege
to demand and receive paid-up insurance in accordance with
the agreement contained in this policy
"5. The contract between the parties hereto is completely
set forth -in this policy and the application therefor, taken
together, and none of its terms can be modified, nor any forfeiture under it waived, except by an agreement m writing,
signed by the president, vice-president, actuary, secretary or
assistant secretary of the society, whose authority for this purpose will not be delegated.
"6. If any statement made in the application for this policy
be in any respect untrue, this policy shall be void."
The application for the policy was dated at Windsor in
the State of Missouri, December 15, 1880, addressed to the
defendant, and signed by Samuel E. Wall and Alice L.
Wall, and the parts of it relied on by the defendant were
as follows:
"27. Does the person for whose benefit the assurance is
effected, in consideration of the agreements contained in the
policy hereby applied for, (providing for paid-up insurance in
the event of surrender of the policy at certain periods and
under certain conditions specified,) waive and relinquish all
right or claim to any other surrender value than that so provided, whether required by a statute of any State or 'not 2"
"Yes."
"It is hereby declared and agreed that all the statements
and answers written on this application are warranted to be

EQUITABLE LIFE SOCIETY v. CLEMENTS.
Statement of the Case.

true, and are offered to the society as a consideration of the
contract, which shall not take effect until the first premium
shall have been actually paid during the life of the person
herein proposed for assurance."
The petition alleged that, in consideration of the sum of
$136.25 paid to the defendant by Samuel E. Wall, and of the
further agreement on his part to pay to the defendant an
annual premium of $136.25 on or before December 15 in each
year during the continuance of the contract, the defendant
"made, executed and delivered to said Samuel E. Wall, who
was then and all the times hereinafter mentioned a resident
of the State of Missouri, and in which State the said policy
was delivered and the said premiums paid," the policy of insurance, above stated.
The answer admitted that said Wall was a resident of the
State of Missouri, and that the policy of insurance, "after
being applied for to and executed by the defendant, was, at
the request of the said Wall, transmitted to-the State of Missouri and was delivered to said Wall in said State," and "that
the annual premiums due on said policy on December 15, 1881,
and December 15, 1882, were paid, as also the cash premium
due when said policy was issued."
The plaintiff alleged in the petition, and proved at the
trial, that Samuel E. Wall failed to pay the premium due
December 15, 1883, that he died January 21, 1884, that the
defendant, on notice of his death, denied its liability, and
thereby waived further proof thereof; that on December 15,
1883, the policy had acquired a net value of $161.05, as computed upon the American experience table of mortality, with
four and a half per cent annual interest, that neither Wall
nor his wife was then indebted to the defendant, on account
of past premiums on the policy, or otherwise, that his age
at that time was thirty-nine years, and that three-fourths
of such net value, applied and taken as a net single premium
for temporary insurance for the full amount written in the
policy, would continue the policy in force until August 30,
1886.
The plaintiff claimed the full amount of the policy, with

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

interest, by virtue of the provisions of the Revised Statutes of
Missouri of 1879, which are copied in the margin.'
1 SEC. 5983. No policy of insurance on life, hereafter issued by any life
insurance company authorized to do business in this State, on and after
the first day of August, A.D. 1879, shall, after payment upon it of two full
annual premiums, be forfeited or become void, by reason of the nonpayment of premium thereon, but it shall be subject to the following rules
of commutation, to wit: The net value of the policy, when the premium
becomes due and is not paid, shall be computed upon the American experience table of mortality, with four and one-half per cent interest per annum,
and after deducting from three-fourths of such net value any notes or
other indebtedness to the company, given on account of past premium payments on said policy issued to the insured, which indebtedness shall then
be cancelled, the balance shall be taken as a net single premium for temporary insurance for the full amount written in the policy, and the term
for which such temporary insurance shall be in force shall be determined
by the age of the person whose life is insured at the time of the default of
premium and the assumption of mortality and interest aforesaid.
SEC. 5984. At any time after the payment of two or more full annual
premiums, and not later than sixty days from the begming of the extended
insurance provided m the preceding section, the legal holder of the policy
may demand of the company, and the company shall issue, its paid-up
policy which, in case of an ordinary life policy, shall be for such an
amount as the net value of the original policy at the age and date of lapse,
computed according to the American experience table of mortality with
interest at the rate of four and one-half per cent per annum, without deduction of indebtedness on account of said policy, will purchase, applied as a
single premium upon the table rates of the company.
SEC. 5985. If the death of the insured occur within the term of temporary insurance covered by the value of the policy as determined in section
5983, and if no condition of the insurance other than the payment of
premiums shall have been violated by the insured, the company shall be
bound to pay the amount of the policy, the same as if there had been no
default in the payment of premium, anything in the policy to the contrary
notwithstanding Provided, however, that notice of the clann and proof
of the death shall be submitted to the company in the same manner as provided by the terms of the policy within ninety days after the decease of
the insured.
SEC. 5986. The three preceding sections shall not be applicable in the
following cases, to wit: If the policy shall contain a provision for an
unconditional cash surrender value at least equal to the net single premium
for the temporary insurance provided hereinbefore; or for the unconditional commutation of the policy to nonforfeitable paid-up insurance for
which the net value shall be equal to that provided for in section 5984, or
if the legal holder of the policy shall, within sixty days after default of

EQUITABLE LIFE SOCIETY v. CLEMENTS.
Opinion of the Court.

The grounds of defence relied on were 1st. That the
policy was a contract governed by the laws of the State of
New York and not by the laws of the State of Missouri. 2d.
That if it was governed by the laws of Missouri, then the
stipulations in the policy and in the application therefor were
valid and binding on the plaintiff as a waiver of the pro
visions of § 5983 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri.
The court, on motion of the plaintiff, ordered the parts of
the answer which set up these defences to be struck out,
delivering the opinion reported in 32 Fed. Rep. 273, and
afterwards, upon a submission of the case to its decision without a jury, declined to sustain these defences, and rendered
judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of $6125. The defendant duly excepted to these rulings, and sued out this writ of
error.
MAr Henry .Eitc~hoock, for plaintiff in error. XMP G A.
.AXadill and Mr G A. _Finkenbwg were with hun on the
brief.
k .1 C. Ktautkof for defendant in error. _M
A. Fyke was with him on the brief.

.Mttkew

M . JusTIcE G AY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

Upon the question whether the contract sued on was made
in New York or in Missouri, there is nothing in the record,
except the policy and application, the petition and answer, by
which the facts appear to have been as follows The assured
was a resident of Missouri, and the application for the policy
was signed in Missouri. The policy, executed at the defendant's office in New York, provides that "the contract between
the parties hereto is completely set forth in this policy and
premium, surrender the policy and accept from the company another form
of policy; or if the policy shall be surrendered to the company for a consideration adequate in the judgment of the legal holder thereof, then, and
in any of the foregoing cases, this act shall not be applicable.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the application therefor, taken together." The application
declares that the contract "shall not take effect until the first
premium shall have been actually paid during the life of the
person herein proposed for assurance." The petition alleges
that that premium and two annual premiums were paid in
Missouri. The answer expressly admits the payment of the
three premiums, and, by not controverting that they were
paid in Missouri, admits that fact also, if material. Missouri
Rev Stat. 1879, § 3545. The petition further alleges that the
policy was delivered in Missouri, and the answer admits that
the policy was, "at the request of the said Wall, transmitted
to the State of Missouri and was delivered to said Wall in said
State." If this form of admission does not icply that the
policy was at the request of Wall transmitted to another person, perhaps the company's agent, in Missouri, and by him
there delivered to Wall, it is quite consistent with such a state
of facts, and there is no evidence whatever, or even averment,
that the policy was transmitted by mail directly to Wall, or
that the company signified to Wall its acceptance of his application an any other way than by the delivery of the policy to
him in Missouri. Upon this record, the conclusion is inevitable
that the policy never became a completed contract, binding
either party to it, until the delivery of the policy and the payment of the first premium in Missouri, and consequently that
the policy is a Missouri contract and governed by the laws
of Missouri.
By the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, in force when
this policy was made, it was enacted as follows: By § 5983.
"no policy of insurance on life, hereafter issued by any life
insurance company authorized to do business in this State,
shall, after payment upon it of two full annual premiums, be
'forfeited or become void, by reason of the nonpayment of
premium thereon, but it shall be subject to the following
rules of commutation, to wit " The net value -of the policy is
to be computed, and the insurance is to continue in force for
the full amount of the policy for such time as three-fourths of
such net value will be a premium for, according to the rules
of commutation prescribed in that section. By § 5984, the

EQUITABLE LIFE SOCIETY v. CLEMENTS.

233

Opinion of the Court.

holder of the policy, within sLxty days from the beginning of
such temporary insurance, may elect to take a paid-up policy
for such amount as the net value aforesaid would be a premium
for. By § 5985, if the assured dies within the term of temporary insurance, as determined by § 5983, and there has been
no breach of any other condition of the policy, "the company
shall be bound to pay the amount of the policy, the same as
if there had been no default in the payment of premium, anything in the policy to the contrary notwithstanding."
The manifest object of this statute, as of many statutes
regulating the form of policies of insurance on lives or against
fires, is to prevent insurance companies from inserting in their
policies conditions of forfeiture or restriction, except so far as
the statute permits. The statute is not directory only, or
subject to be set aside by the company with the consent of
the assured, but itis mandatory, and controls the nature and
terms of the contract into which the company may induce the
assured to enter. This clearly appears from the unequivocal
words of command and of prohibition above quoted, by which,
in § 5983, "no policy of insurance" issued by any life insurance company authorized to do business in this State "shall,
after the payment of two full annual premiums, be forfeited
or become void, by reason of the nonpayment of premium
thereon, but it shall be subject to the following rules of commutation," and, in § 5985, that if the assured dies within the
term of temporary insurance, as determined in the former
section, "the company shall be bound to pay the amount of
the policy," "anything in the policy to the contrary notwithstanding."
This construction is put beyond doubt by § 5986, which, by
specifying four cases (two of which relate to the form of the
policy) in which the three preceding sections "shall not be
applicable," necessarily implies that those sections shall control all cases not so specified, whatever be the form of the
policy
Of the cases so specified, the only ones in which the terms
of the policy are permitted to differ from the plan of the
statute are the first and second, which allow the policy to

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

stipulate for the holder's receiving the full benefit, either in
cash, or by a new paid-up policy, of the three-fourths of the
net value, as determined by §§ 5983 and 5984. The other two
cases specified do not contemplate or authorize any provision
in the contract itself inconsistent with the statute, but only
permit the holder to surrender the policy, either in lieu of a
new policy, or for a consideration adequate m his judgment.
In defining each of these two cases, the statute, while allowing
the holder to make a new bargain with the company, at the
tune of surrendering the policy, and upon such terms as, on
the facts then appearing, are satisfactory to him, yet significantly, and, it must be presumed, designedly, contains nothing
having the least tendency to show an intention on the part of
the legislature that the company might require the assured to
agree in advance that he would at any future time surrender
the policy or lose the benefit thereof, upon any terms but
those prescribed in the statute.
It follows that the insertion, in the policy, of a provision for
a different rule of commutation from that prescribed by the
statute, in case of default of payment of premium after three
premiums have been paid, as well as the insertion, in the
application, of a clause by which the beneficiary.purports to
"waive and relinquish all right or claim to any other surrender value than that so provided, whether required by a
statute of any State, or not," is an ineffectual attempt to
evade and nullify the clear words of the statute.
Judgment aflrmed.

BLOCK v. DAIRLING.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UIITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KENTUOKY.
flo. 299. Argued April 22, 23, 891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

When in an action for the recovery of a money demand, a counter-claim of
the defendant exceeding $5000 in amount is entirely disallowed, and
judgment rendered for the plaintiff on his claim, this court has juris-

