.OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

to which he refers, (six thousand seven hundred and eighteen
acres of which, according to the testimony, lie within the
Martin grant,) was not completed until April 20, 1796, which
was after the issue of the patent, and, therefore, that tract
could not come within the description therein of excluded
lands. There is nothing to distinguish the case from that of
Bryan v Willard.
Because the views expressed in Bryan v Millard are correct, because it is the decision of the highest court of a State
upon the question of the title to real estate within its boundaries, and because that case is identical with this, the judgment
of the trial court is
Afflrmd.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BRAD IEY took no part
in the consideration and decision of this case.

In re WOOD, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 1581.

Argued Aprii 10, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Mhen the statutes of a State do not exclude persons of African descent
from serving as grand or petit jurors, a person accused in a state court
of crime, who desires to avail himself of the fact that they were so
excluded in the selection of the grand jury which found the indictment
against him, or of the petit jury which tried him, should make the objection in the state court during the trial, and, if overruled, should take the
question for decision to the highest court to which a writ of error could
be sued out from this court; and failing to do so, he cannot have the
adverse decision of the state court reviewed by a Circuit Court of the
United States upon a writ of habeas corpus.
The question raised in this case could have been raised and determined by
the trial court in New York, on a motion to set aside the indictment.
It was not intended by Congress that Circuit Courts of the United States
should, by writs of habeas coiopus, obstruct the ordinary administration
of the criminal laws of the State through its own tribunals.

THE

case, as stated by the court, was as follows

IN RE WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

The appellant, Joseph Wood, being held in custody by
Augustus A. Brush, agent and warden of Sing Sing Prison
in the State of New York, presented to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of that State,
on the 29th day of September, 1890, a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus, setting forth the facts concerning his detention.
His application having been denied, an appeal was taken
under sections 751, 753, 763, 764 and 765 of the Revise.
Statutes and the act of Congress of MNarch 3, 1885, 23 Stat.
437, c. 353, giving an appeal to this court from the final decision of a Circuit Court, upon habeas corj)us, in the case of a
person alleged to be restrained of his liberty in violation of
the Constitution or any law or treaty of the United States.
The petitioner stated that he was a citizen of the United
States, of the African race, that he was convicted in the Court
of General Sessions of the Peace for the city and county of
New York, of the crime of murder in the first degree. and,
being sentenced to death under chapter 489 of the Laws of
1888 of that State, was committed to the custody of the appellee to await the execution of the sentence, which was fixed
to occur in the week beginning December 1, 1890, that the
indictment upon which he was arraigned was found by a
grand jury of that court at its October term 1889, and his conviction by a petit jury was at its March term 1890, "that
from the panels and lists of jurors whence said grand jury
and petit jury were drawn and from said juries all persons
of African race and descent and black m color were excluded,"
because of their race, and in said city, county and State have
always been excluded for a like reason, that upon his arraignment on the 28th day of October, 1889, he was then without
counsel or means of procuring counsel, and was required to
and did plead to the indictment in ignorance of his rights in
the premises, that upon the trial he was ignorant of the above
facts "without his fault, and was, therefore, unable to challenge or otherwise object to the lists, panels and array of
grand and petit jurors for the ground aforesaid," that after
conviction, learning the facts in relation to such exclusion of
persons of his race from the list of grand' and petit jurors,

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

he moved, with due diligence, upon allegation and tender of
proof of the facts aforesaid, for a new trial, that according to
law and the practice of the court his motion should have been
entertained and decided upon its merits, and upon due proof,
should have been granted, but the court refused altogether to
entertain it or to pass upon his said contention upon proofs
tendered, and a time was thereupon fixed for his execution,
that by reason of such facts "he has been deprived of all the
privileges and just rights of citizens of the United States, and
of the equal protection of the laws, and is in like manner
deprived of his liberty, and about to be deprived of his life,
without due process of law," and that his commitment and
detention under said conviction and sentence are void and of
no validity The petitioner prayed also for a writ of certiorarz to the Court of General Sessions of the Peace and its
clerk, commanding it or him to certify to the court below true
copies of the lists of grand jurors for the October term 1889
of that court, of the lists and panels of trial jurors or additional trial jurors for its March term 1890, and of the indictment and other papers in the prosecution under and by virtue
of which he was held in custody
The above motion by the prisoner was in writing, and was
to the effect that the verdict of guilty be vacated and set aside,
the judgment of conviction stayed, and a new trial granted
upon the following grounds "First. That the defendant is
of the African race and black in color, and that all persons
of this race and color were excluded in the drawing of the
panel of the petit jurors, from which the trial jury herein
was selected. Second. That by reason of such exclusion the
defendant was denied the equal protection of the laws and
did not have the full and equal benefit thereof in the proceedings for the security of his life and liberty as is enjoyed by
white persons, and to which he is and was justly entitled.
Titrd. That all persons of the African race and of color were
excluded from the grand jury, by which the indictment against
the defendant was found and upon which he was tried, and
consequently said indictment was illegal and void, and the
defendant ought not to have been put upon trial upon said

IN RE WOOD.
Statement of the Case.

indictment, as said trial court was without jurisdiction. Bourth.
That persons of the African race and color have always been
excluded from the list and drawings of both the grand and
petit jurors in and for the city and county of New York,
though there were and for many years last past have been
many such persons qualified by law in all respects to sit as
grand and petit jurors in this court and residing in the city
and county of New York. -Fifth. That the honorable recorder
who presided at the trial, as a member of the board who
selected the grand jury by which defendant was indicted, had
judicial knowledge and notice of the exclusion of persons of
said African race and color, and should have advised the
defendant of such fact when called upon to plead, as defendant was without counsel and unable to procure the same.
Sixth. That the honorable recorder, sitting as trial judge, had
judicial knowledge and should have taken judicial notice of
the fact of the exclusion in manner aforesaid, of persons of
the African race and color from the panel of petit jurors in
attendance at the term of court and from which the jury
in defendant's case was selected. Seventh. That the entire
proceedings herein were contrary to the just rights and interests of the defendant and not in accordance with the guaranteed rights of the defendant. This motion is based upon the
affidavit of the defendant, herewith filed, all proceedings in
said cause, and the request to subpcena and examine witnesses
concerning the material allegations in the affidavit of said
Wood contained."
There was a further motion at the same time that subpcenas
be issued directed to the commissioners of "jurors of the
city of New York and to all other officers, clerks and persons
who are known to the court to possess personal knowledge of
the facts relating to these matters alleged in the affidavit of
defendant at this time filed, and whose testimony may enable
defendant to establish the facts in said affidavit set forth, and
that said commissioners and others be examined and their
evidence be taken in support of this motion and before the
court passes upon the same."
This motion was supported by the affidavit of Wood, which,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

after reciting his conviction and stating that when arraigned
he had no counsel, and was without means to procure any, and
that the plea of not guilty was entered without an examination
of the indictment by counsel for him, proceeded. "Deponent
further says that he is a citizen of the United States and was
born in the State of Virginia, and that he is of the African
race and descent and black in color. Deponent further says
that there are at least several thousand citizens of the African
race and descent and black in color who are and were for
more than ten years last past residents of the city, county
and State of New York, and who are qualified in all respects
to sit as grand and petit jurors in the court where this deponent was heretofore tried, convicted and sentenced to death,
that the officers authorized by the laws of the State of New
York to select the names of and the persons to serve as grand
jurors and petit jurors to serve for and in the Court of General
Sessions of the Peace of the city and county of New York,
selected no persons of the African race or color to serve as
such jurors, but, on the contrary, excluded all persons of such
race and color from those to serve as and be drawn for jurors,
that said officers in and for said city and county. of New York
drew from the list of those so selected to serve as grand jurors,
the grand jurors by whom the indictment against the defendant was found, and drew from the list of those selected to serve
as petit jurors the petit jurors before whom the defendant was
to be and was tried for his life under said indictment, and that
from both the grand and petit jurors sitting in said court by
whom the deponent was indicted and tried all persons qualified
by law to serve as jurors who were persons of the African race
and color were excluded because of their race and color, and
that no one person of said African race and color was drawn
or summoned, but that said grand and petit jurors were composed exclusively of white persons, and that, in fact, all persons, as deponent is informed and believes, of the African race,
although qualified to serve as jurors, have always'in said city,
county and State been excluded from serving upon juries
because of their race and color, and that by reason of such
exclusion the said juries have been composed wholly of the

IN RE WOOD.
Opmion of the Court.

white race, and the defendant, in the finding of the said indictment and the trial thereupon, was denied the equal protection
of the laws and did not have the full and equal benefit of all
laws and proceedings in the said State of New York for the
security of his person, as is enjoyed by white persons. Deponent asks that said judgment and the verdict herein be set
aside and a further hearing be granted and such proceedings
had as may be consistent with defendant's just rights."
This was the case presented to the court below, and is the
case presented on this appeal from the order refusing to grant
the writ of habeas corpus.
.A& R. J Haire for the petitioner.
Mr Isaac . Maynard opposing.
.Mr Charles _F Tabor, Attorney General of the State of
New York, filed a brief in opposition.
MR. JusTiE. MAnA", after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The ground upon which the appellant based his application
for writs of habeas corpus and certiorari,was that his trial and
conviction were in violation of his rights under the Constitution and laws of the United States, in that the grand jurors
who returned the indictment, and the petit jurors by whom
he was tried, were drawn from lists from which were excluded,
because of their race and color, all citizens of African race and
descent. Certainly, such exclusion was not required by the
laws of New York. By the act of July 1, 1882, known as
the New York Consolidation Act, grand jurors in courts of
Oyer and Terminer and of General Sessions, held in the city
and county of New York, are required to be selected from the
persons whose names are contained in the list of petit jurors
for the time being for that city, and by a Board consisting of
the Mayor, the Presiding Judge of the Supreme Court in the
First Judicial District, the Chief Justice of the Superior Court
of the city, the first Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Recorder, and the City Judge of the city and county It is
the duty of that Board to select from the lists produced by
the Commissioner of Jurors of persons qualified to serve as
jurors in the city, the names of not less than six hundred nor
more than one thousand persons to serve as grand jurors of the
different courts of Oyer and Termner and General Sessions,
and the persons so selected are required to be "intelligent
citizens of good character," and, "so far as the said Board
may be informed, possessed of the qualifications required of
persons to serve as jurors for the trial of issues of fact, and
not exempted from serving as such jurors." Laws of N. Y
1882, §§ 1638, 1641. A person, to be qualified to serve as a
trial juror for a court in the city and county of New York,
must be "1. A male citizen of the United States, and a
resident of that city and county 2. Not less than twenty-one,
nor more than seventy years of age. 3. The owner, in his
own right, of real or personal property, of the value of two
hundred and fifty dollars, or the husband of a woman who is
the owner, in her own right, of real or personal property of
that value. 4. In the possession of his natural faculties, and
not infirm or decrepit. 5. Free from all legal exceptions,
intelligent, of sound mind and good character, and able
to read and write the English language understandingly"
§ 1652, Code of Civil Procedure, § 1079. It is admitted, and,
if it were not admitted, it is too clear to require discussion to
prove, that these statutory regulations do not authorize, indeed, do not permit, the exclusion of any citizen from the lists
of grand and petit jurors, because of his race and color. They
apply equally to citizens of the United States resident in the
city and county of New York, to whatever race they belong.
So far as participation in the administration of justice by
service upon grand and petit juries is concerned, they ignore
all distinctions between citizens of the United States arising
merely from race and color.
But it is contended that the present case is brought within
former decisions of this court by reason of the alleged exclusion, in fact, from the lists of grand and petit jurors, of citizens
of the African race, because of their race and color. The

IN RE WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

decision upon which the appellant particularly relies in support of his application for the writ of habeas corpus is Neal v
Delaware,103 U. S. 370, 394, which, it must be observed, came
here from the highest court of the State upon writ of error.
In that case this court - after remarking that a denial, by
officers of the State charged with the duty of selecting jurors,
of the right of the accused to a selection of grand and petit
jurors without discrimination against his race, because of their
race, would be a violation of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, which the trial court was bound to redressobserved "As said by us in Tirgznma v R ves, 100 U. S.313,
the ' court will correct the wrong, will quash the indictment,
or the panel, or, if not, the error will be corrected in a superior court,' and ultimately in this court upon review We
repeat what was said in that case, that while a colored citizen,
party to a trial involving his life, liberty or property, cannot
claim, as matter of right, that his race shall have a representation on the jury, and while a mixed jury, in a particular
case, is not, within the meaning of the Constitution, always or
absolutely necessary to the equal protection of the laws, it U
a right to which he is entitled, 'that in the selection of jurors
to pass upon his.life, liberty or property, there shall be no
exclusion of his race, and no discrimination against them,
because of their color.'"
We do not perceive that anything said in Neal v Delaware
would have authorized the Circuit Court to discharge the
appellant from custody, even if, upon investigation, it had
found that citizens of the race to which he belongs had been,
in fact and because of their race, excluded from the lists of
grand and petit jurors from which were selected the grand
jurors who indicted and the petit jurors who tried him. That
was a matter arising in the course of the proceedings against
the appellant, and during his trial, and not from the statutes
of New York, and should have been brought at the appropriate time, and in some proper mode, to the attention of the
trial court. Whether the grand jurors who found the indictment, and the petit jurors who tried the appellant, were or
were not selected in conformity with the laws of New York -

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

which laws, we have seen, are not obnoxious to the objection
that they discriminate against citizens of the African race,
because of their race - was a question which the trial court
was entirely competent to decide, and its determination could
not be reviewed by the Circuit Court of the United States,
upon a writ of habeas corpus, without making that writ serve
the purposes of a writ of error. No such authority is given to
the Circuit Courts of the United States by the statutes defining
and regulating their jurisdiction. It often occurs in the progress of a criminal trial in a state court, proceeding under a
statute not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
that questions occur which involve the construction of that
instrument and the determination of rights asserted under it.
But that does not justify an interference with its proceedings
by a Circuit Court of the United States, upon a writ of habeas
co7pus sued out by the accused either during or after the trial
m the state court. For "upon the state courts, equally with
the courts of the Union, rests the obligation to guard, enforce
and protect every right granted or secured by the Constitution of the United States and the laws made in pursuance
thereof, whenever those rights are involved in any suit or
proceeding before them," and "if they fail therein, and
withhold or deny rights, privileges or immunities secured by
the Constitution and laws of the United States, the party
aggrieved may bring the case from the highest court of the
State in which the question could be decided to this court for
final and conclusive determination." Robb v Connolly, 111
U S.624, 637.
Of this right to have the action of the trial court reviewed
in the highest court of the State, the appellant availed himself. His present application, it is true, does not show that
his case was carried to the Court of Appeals of New York,
and that the judgment of conviction was there affirmed, October 7, 1890. But we may, as doubtless the Circuit Court did,
take judicial notice of those facts. That court said "The
record in this case discloses no exception that is not wholly
frivolous. The counsel for the defendant frankly confessed
that he had been unable to find an exception which he thought

IN RE WOOD.

287

Opinion of the Court.

fit for argument, but he submitted the case in the hope that,
in our examination of it, we might find some ground on
which to base a reversal of the judgment. The case has been
carefully examined, because it involved human life, but we
have been unable to find the slightest reason for disagreeing
with the result arrived at in the trial court." .People v Wood,
123 N. Y 632.
The highest court of the State having thus disposed of the
case, and the appellant having failed to obtain from the trial
court an order setting aside the conviction and granting a
new trial, the present effort was made to secure his release by
a writ of habeas corpus issued by the Circuit Court of the
United States. The statute under which the appellant was
prosecuted is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States, and the court that tried him, we repeat, was competent
to guard and enforce every right secured to him by that instrument, and which might be involved in his trial. The petition for the writ sets forth no ground affecting its jurisdiction
either of the offence charged or of the person alleged to have
committed it. If the question of the exclusion of citizens of
the African race from the lists of grand and petit jurors had
been made during the trial in the Court of General Sessions,
and erroneously decided* against the appellant, such error in
decision would not have made the judgment of conviction void,
or his detention under it illegal. Savn, Petzhwner, 131 U. S.
267, 279, Stevens v Fuller, 136 U. S. 468, 478. Nor would
that error, of itself, have authorized the Circuit Court of the
United States, upon writ of habeas corpus, to review the
decision or disturb the custody of the accused by the state
authorities. The remedy, in such case, for the accused, was
to sue out a writ of error from this court to the highest court
of the State having cognizance of the matter, whose judgment,
if adverse to him in respect to any right, privilege or immunity, specially claimed under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, could have been reexamined, and reversed,
affirmed or modified, by this court as the law reqmred. Rev
Stat. § 109.
Anticipating this view, the appellant insists that he was

288

OCTOBER TER I,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

not permitted by the laws of New York regulating the trial
of criminal cases to avail himself of the objection that all persons of his race were excluded in the city and county of New
York, from the lists of grand and petit jurors. Consequently,
he contends, that during the period in which jurors were
drawn from the lists in question the Court of General Sessions
of that city and county "had no jurisdiction to indict and try
a person of the African race." We cannot assent to this prop.osition, or to any interpretation of the Code of Criminal Procedure of New York, that withholds from the trial court
authority to protect a person, upon trial for his life, in a right
secured to him by the Constitution of the 'United States.
While that Code may not permit "a defendant to challenge
the body of the grand jury because irregularly or defectively
constituted," People v Hloogkcerk, 96 N. Y 149, 159, it is not
clear that such challenge, if seasonably made, may not be
allowed when "the defect in the constitution of the tribunal
deprived it of the character of a grand jury in a constitutional sense," or was such as involved the violation of the
constitutional rights of the accused. People v Petrea, 92
N. Y 128, 144, 145. Without expressing any opinion upon
this point, we are satisfied that the question now made as to
the exclusion of citizens of the African race from the lists
of grand and petit jurors, because of their race, could have
been raised and determined by the trial court, upon its merits,
under a motion to set aside the indictment. Section 312 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure provides that "in answer to
the indictment, the defendant may either move the court to
set the same aside, or may demur or plead thereto." The
grounds upon which such a motion may be based are not
enumerated, and a trial court is, therefore, at liberty to entertam it upon any grounds not forbidden by other sections of
the Code, and which may be available under the established
rules of criminal procedure. People v Clements, 5 N. Y
Crim. Rep. 288, 294, People v. Pzee, 6 N. Y Crim. Rep.
141. It is true that section 313 of the Code specifies certain
cases (not embracing cases like the present one) in which an
indictment, on motion of the defendant, "must be set aside."

IiN IRE WOOD.

289.

Opinion of the Court.

But that section does not restrict the power of the court to
set aside indictments, on motion, to those particular cases, nor
include that large class of cases, in which a court, in its discretion, in order to subserve the ends of public justice or to
protect the accused from wrong, may qdash an indictment and
direct a resubmission of his case to another grand jury United
States v Gale, 109 U S. 65.
Whether the appellant might not have availed himself, in
other modes, and during the trial, of the objection now under
consideration, we need not inquire, for, independently of the
view we have expressed, and even if there were some room
for a different construction of the New York Code, the Circuit Court might well have forborne to act until this question
had been definitely determinea either in the highest court of
New York, or in this court upon a writ of error sued out by
the appellant. While the courts of the United States have
power, upon habeas corpus, to inquire into the cause of the
detention of any one claiming to be restrained of his liberty
in violation of the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the
United States, it was not intended by Congress that they
should by writs of habeas corpus obstruct the ordinary administration of the criminal laws of the States, through their own
tribunals. "Where," this court said in E parte .Royall, 117
U. S. 241, 252, 253, "a person is in custody, under process
from a state court of original jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of such State, and it is claimed that he
is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of
the United States, the Circuit Court has a discretion, whether
it will discharge him, upon habeas corpus, in advance of his
trial in the court in which he is indicted, that discretion,
however, to be subordinated to any special circumstances requiring immediate action. When the state court shall have
finally acted upon the case, the Circuit Court has still a discretion whether, under all the circumstances then existing, the
accused, if convicted, shall be put to his writ of error from the
highest court of the State, or whether it will proceed, by writ
of habeas coppus, summarily to determine whether the petitioner is restrained of his liberty in violation of the ConstiVOL. cxL,-19

OCTOBER TERI,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

tution of the United States." And we will add, that after the
final disposition of the case by the highest court of the State,
the Circuit Court, in its discretion, may put the party, who
has been denied a right, privilege or immunity claimed
under the Constitution or laws of the United States, to his
writ of error from this court, rather than interfere by writ
of habeas coepus. These principles have special application
where, as in the present case, there is no pretence that the
statute under which the prosecution of the appellant was
conducted is repugnant to the Constitution or laws of the
United States.
It is scarcely necessary to observe that the question of the
power or duty of the Circuit Court to issue a writ of habeas
corpus is not at all affected byothe fact, alleged in the petition that the appellant was ignorant, until after his conviction,
of the exclusion of citizens of his race, because of their race,
from the lists of grand and petit jurors. That fact, if mate0
rial, was for the consideration of the trial court.
In respect to the general objection that the Court of General Sessions should have considered and sustained the motion
to set aside the verdict, stay the judgment and grant a new
trial, upon the grounds stated in that motion and in the
accompanying affidavit, it need only be further said that the
action of that court in the matter did not affect its jurisdiction, and, therefore, cannot be reviewed or disregarded upon
habeas o:pus.
We are of opinion that the court below did not err in denying the application for writs of habeas corpus and cerorarz'
and the judgment must be
Affirmed.1
MR.JusTIcE GrAY was not present at the argument of this
case, and took no part in its decision.
1 Mn. JUsTicE FmLD filed a concurring opinion of which the Reporter
had no notice. To his great regret it reached him after this and subsequent
pages were set up and cast. It will be found on p. 370,.post.

