OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

sidered as impeachment. The government evidently rested on
the assumption that, because the witnesses were Chinese persons, they were not to be believed. I do not agree with
this.

WAN SHING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1414.

Submitted April 10, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

The result of the legislation respecting the .Chinese would seem to be this,
that no laborers of that race shall hereafter be permitted to enter the
United States, or even to return after having departed from the country,
though they may have previously resided therein and have left with a.
view of returning; and that all other persons of that race, except those
connected with the diplomatic service, must produce a certificate from
the authorities of the Chinese government, or of such other foreign government as they may at 'the time be subjects of, showing that they are
not laborers, and have the permission of that government to enter the
United States, which certificate is to be vs~d by a representative of the
government of the United States.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows.
The petitioner, who is also appellant here, is a subject of
the Emperor of China, and came from that country to the
port of San Francisco, California, in the steamship Arabic,
arriving there August 7, 1889. The officers of the customs
refused to allow him to land in the United States, holding that
he was a Chinese laborer and as such within the provisions of
the exclusion act. The captain of the steamship therefore detained him on board, and he applied through a friend to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California for a writ of habeas corpus to obtain his discharge from such detention, alleging that it was claimed by
the master that he could not land under the provisions of the
act of Congress of May 6, 1882, and the act amendatory
thereof, whereas he was a resident of the United States on

WAN SHING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the 17th of November, 1880, and departed therefrom prior to
the 6th day of June, 1882, and that at all the times mentioned
he was a merchant, doing business on Dupont Street, San
Francisco, having only temporarily left the United States on
April 19, 1882.
Upon the petition the writ was issued, the petitioner
brought before the court and the matter referred to a commissioner to take testimony in the case and find the facts and
his conclusions of law and report a judgment therein. Thereupon the petitioner was sworn before the commissioner, so
also was the partner in business of his father. The commissioner made a report, transmitting to the court the testimony
taken, finding that the petitioner had not established by sufficient evidence his right to reenter and remain in the United
States, and recommending a judgment that he was not illegally restrained of his liberty and should be returned by the
marshal to the custody of the master of the steamship. Subsequently the case was brought to a hearing before the Circuit
Court upon this report and it held that the petitioner was not
at the date of his petition illegally restrained of his liberty,
but was a Chinese person forbidden by law to land within the
United States or to remain therein. It was accordingly ordered
that he be remanded by the marshal to the custody of the master of the steamship. From this judgment an appeal was taken
to this court.
. r J J Scrmvener for appellant.
.M

Asswtant Attorney GeneralParker for appellee.

Mn. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating

the cge, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
The refusal of the officers of the customs at the port of San
Francisco to allow the petitioner to land, and his consequent
detention by the master of the steamship in which he was
brought to this country, were not founded upon the act of
May 6, 1882, and the act amendatory thereof, as erroneously

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged in his petition. They were based upon the provisions
of the act of October 1, 1888, which declared that from and
after its passage it should be unlawful for any Chinese laborer,
who at any time before had been or was then, or might thereafter be, a resident within the United States and who had departed or might depart therefrom, and should not have returned
before its passage, to return to or remain in the United States.
And it further declared that no certificates of identity, under
which by the act of May 6, 1882, Chinese laborers departing
from the country were allowed to return, should thereafter be
issued, and it annulled every certificate of the kind which had
been previously issued, and provided that no Chinese laborer
should be permitted to enter the United States by virtue
thereof.
The petitioner, if a laborer, could not therefore have been
permitted to land except in violation of this statute, without
reference to the question whether or not he was in the country
on November 1T, 1880, and had departed therefrom before
the passage of the act of June 6, 1882.
His right to land, therefore, rested upon his establishing the
fact that he was not a laborer, within the provisions of the
act of October 1, 188$, and that could only have been shown
by a certificate of identity issued under the authority of the
Chinese government. The sixth section of the act of May 6,
1882 , 22 Stat. 58, 60, c. 126, ยง 6, provides that, for the faithful
execution of the treaty of November 17, 1880, every Chinese
person, other than a laborer, who may be entitled by it and
by that act to come within the United States, and who is
about to come, "shall be identified as so entitled by the Chinese
government in each case, such identity to be evidenced by a
certificate issued under the authority of said government,
which certificate shall.be in the English language, or, (if not
m the English language,) accompanied by a translation into
English, stating such right to come, and which certificate shall
state the name, title or official rank, if any, the age, height
and all physical peculiarities, former and present occupation
or profession, and place of residence in China of the person to
whom the certificate is issued, and that such person is entitled

WAN SHING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

conformably to the treaty in this act mentioned to come
within the United States. Such certificate shall be _prma
fame evidence of the fact set forth therein, and shall be produced to the collector of customs, or his deputy, of the port in
the district in the United States at which the person named
therein shall arrive." From this provision diplomatic and
other officers of the Chinese government travelling upon the
business of that government are exempted, their credentials
being taken as equivalent to the certificate.
By the act of July 5, 1884, 23 Stat. 115, c. 220, this section
six of the act of 1882 was amended and enlarged, so as to
provide for the permission to be obtained from the Chinese
government, or such other foreign government of which at
the time the Chinese person shall be a subject, and declaring
that the certificate provided for shall, before he goes on board
any vessel to proceed to the United States, be vised by the
indorsement of the diplomatic or consular representative of
the United States in the foreign country from which such
certificate issues, whose duty it is made to examine into the
truth of the statements therein before indorsing it, and if they
are found to be untrue to refuse such indorsement. The section then declares that "such certificate, vised as aforesaid,
shall be pnima facze evidence of the facts set forth therein,
and shall be produced to the collector of customs of the port
in the district in the United States, at which the person
named therein shall arrive, and afterWard produced to the
proper authorities of the United States whenever lawfully
demanded, and shall be the sole ewdence permissible on the
part of the person so producing the same to establish a r-Ight of
entry znto the United States, but said certificate may be controverted and the facts therein stated disproved by the United
States authorities."
This clause disposes of the case before us. No certificate
was presented by the petitioner under the statute, showing
that he was entitled to enter the United States, nor was any
attempt made to account for its absence. The evidence
offered to show that the petitioner was a merchant was weak
and unsatisfactory, but the statute itself does away with the

OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

necessity for any investigation by the court as to its sufficiency, for it declares that, while the certificate may be controverted by the authorities of the United States, and is to be
taken by them only as przmcface evidence, it shall constitute
the only evidence permissible on the part of the person producing the same to establish his right to enter the United
States.
The result of the legislation respecting the Chinese would
seem to be this, that no laborers of that race shall hereafter
be permitted to enter the United States, or even to return
after having departed from the country, though they may
have previously resided therein and have left with a view of
returning, and that all other persons of that race, except
those connected with the diplomatic service, must produce a
certificate from the authorities of the Chinese government, or
of such other foreign government as they may at the time be
subjects of, showing that they are not laborers, and have the
permission of that government to enter the United States,
which certificate is to be vised by a representative of the government of the United States.
Judgment airmed.

TIGGINS v. KEUFFEL.
"IPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 290. Argued April 7,8,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A label placed upon a bottle to designate its contents is not a subject for
copyright.
In order to maintain an action for an infringement of the ownership of a
label, registered under the provisions of the act of June 18, 1874, 18 Stat.
78, 79, c. 301, it is necessary that public notice of the registration should
be given by affixing the word " copyright" upon every copy of it.

THE complainants were citizens of the United States, and
residents of Brooklyn in the State of New York. They were
engaged in the manufacture of various articles, among others

