LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY.
Statement of the Case.

Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with direction to
order a new trial, and to take further _proceedings not
sneonswtent with thms optnton.

MR. JUSTICE BREWER dissented from the opinion and judgment in this case, on the ground that it is in contravention of
the long established rules as to what may be considered on an
incomplete record.

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. =38.Argued April 23, 189i.-Decided May 11, 1S91.

An application for rehearing, made after the adjournment of the term at
which the final decree was entered, is made too late.
A decree which determines the whole controversy between the parties,
leaving nothing to be done except to carry it into execution, is a final
decree for the purpose of appeal, and none the less so that the court
retains the fund in controversy, for the purpose of distributing it as
decreed.

ON the 11th of October, 1875, Robert J.Glendy executed a
deed of trust to Alexander F Mathews on a tract of land in
Greenbrier County, West Virginia, to secure his two certain
promissory notes for $10,000 and $5000, respectively, held by
the Bank of Lewisburg, and also "any and all other debts
which the said Glendy may at any time hereafter owe to said
bank, either by the renewal of the said negotiable notes or by
original loans made to him by the said Bank of Lewisburg,
with this express provision and stipulation, however, that the
said indebtedness shall not at any one time exceed the sum of
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000)."
On the 20th of November, 1876, Glendy executed another
trust deed to Hugh W Sheffey and James Bumgardner, Jr.,
of the county of Augusta, State of Virginia, covering the
same lands, and also several tracts or parcels of land situated

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

in the counties of Augusta, Bath and Highland, in the State
of Virginia, and certain specified articles of personal property,
in trust and with the hope of paying all of said Glendy's just
debts; and providing for the sale by the trustees of the real
and personal property in the manner and on the terms named,
the care of the proceeds, the keeping of an account of the
collections and disbursements, to be at all times open to the
inspection of any of the creditors; the convening of the creditors by publication before a master commissioner, to state and
determine in each case how much is justly due, the payment
of dividends to the creditors from time to time, and upon the
further trust "that, after discharging the amounts due from
said Robert J. 0lendy on judgments against him and on vendor's and other paramount liens now binding said lands hereby
conveyed, the trust fund shall be distributed ratably among
the creditors of said Robert J Glendy who may come forward
and prove their debts before said master commissioner within
ninety days after publication of notice requiring them so to
do, etc."
This deed was recorded in the clerk's office of the county
Court of Greenbrier County on the 21st of November, 1876,
at twenty minutes before eleven o'clock, A.m. Five hours
later on the same day, the deed to Mathews was filed for
record. Mathews having advertised the real estate for sale on
May 9, 1877, Sheffey and Bumgardner filed their bill of complaint on the 3d of May, in the District Court of the United
States for the District of West Virginia, against Mathews and
the bank, setting up the deed to them, the subsequent record
of the deed to Mathews, of the existence or contents of which
they denied any knowledge prior to its being spread upon the
record, alleging the priority of their lien, that the deed to
Mathews was not properly acknowledged, and that the notice
of sale was invalid, and praying for an injunction and for
general relief.
A preliminary injunction was thereupon granted, as prayed.
The bank demurred on the ground, among others, of want of
parties, and also answered alleging that at the time the deed
to plaintiffs was executed they had actual notice of the exist-

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY.
Statement of the Case.

ence of the conveyance to Mathews, and certainly before their
own deed was recorded, that by the terms of the deed to
plaintiffs the debt due the bank had priority, that the bank's
deed was recorded before the beneficiaries under plaintiffs'
deed had accepted its provisions or had notice of its existence,
that the certificate to plaintiffs' deed was insufficient, and
that the deed was void as to the bank, upon its face, etc.
Evidence was subsequently taken in the case.
On the 10th of November, 1877, by consent of the parties,
it was ordered that the land be sold by the trustees in both
deeds and the proceedings reported to the court, and the cause
was referred to Gallaher, one of the masters of the court, to
ascertain and report the creditors of Glendy secured by the
deed of trust to plaintiffs, the master to take any report made
by any court sitting in Augusta County, Virginia, as to Glendy's creditors, as rtnzafame true.
On the 26th of March, 1878, the bank recovered a judgment
by confession against Glendy for the sum of $15,900.75, with
interest from February 13, 1878, and costs.
On the -th of May, 1878, the cause came on for hearing,
and the bank tendered an amended and supplemental answer
setting forth that Glendy executed the trust deed to the plaintiffs before any of the lands had been conveyed to him, having
only an equitable title, the acquisition of the legal title on the
7th of March, 1878, and the rendition of the judgment of the
26th of March, that the trust deed to Mathews was after
due proof admitted to record in the clerk's office of the county
court of Greenbrier County on the same 27th of March, that
the deed to plaintiffs was a mere assignment of an equity
without any warranty whatever, that plaintiffs took subject
to the prior conveyance, and their deed did not operate as
notice to the prior grantee by being recorded before the deed
to the latter was, and that in law and equity the lien created
by the deed to plaintiffs, if any, must be postponed and held
subject to the liens of the trust deed and the judgment of the
bank, and thereupon the court entered the following decree
"This cause came on again to be heard upoxi the papers
formally read and upon motion of the defendants to file the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

amended and supplemental answer of the Bank of Lewisburg
and the objection of the plaintiffs to the filing of said amended
answer, the plaintiffs waving formal and technical notice of
same, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
the court being of opinion that the facts stated in said
amended and supplemental answer cannot properly be set up
by way of amended answer, and that they are, if properly
pleaded, wholly immaterial to the issues involved in the cause,
and, if true, can have no bearing upon the rights of the parties as asserted in the cause, it is therefore adjudged, ordered
and decreed, that leave to file said supplemental and amended
answer be denied to said defendants, and that said answer be
rejected.
"It is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that the injunction awarded by former order entered in this cause be perpetuated, and that the fund arising from the sale of the M'Clung
farm, situate in the county of Greenbrier, be brought into
this court, to be by it distributed in accordance with the provisions of the deed of Robert J Glendy to Hugh W Sheffey
and Tames Buimgardner, Jr., bearing date on the 20th day of
November, 1876.
"It is further ordered that the commissioners heretofore
appointed by the order of this court proceed to sell said
M'Clung farm, as directed in said decree, and if when said
land is offered for sale no bid is made for same adequate in the
opinion of said commissioners, that said commissioners shall
by private contract or public auction rent said land for the
term of one year or less, upon such terms as said commissioners shall deem expedient."
On the 7th of May the report of the sale was made.
On the 2d of August, 1878, which was after the adjournment
of the May term, the record states that the bank appeared in
court by counsel and tendered its petition for a rehearing "of
the order made in this cause at the last term, except so far as
it directs a sale of the trust property, for errors in law apparent on its face," to the filing of which petition plaintiffs objected, and the court "without passing upon the matters,
ordered the same to be set for hearing at the next term of

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY.
Statement of the Case.

this court, to which time this cause is continued." This petition averred that the court had rested its action upon the
ground that the legal title when subsequently acquired by
Glendy enured to plaintiffs, alleged that that view had not
been asserted or argued, and that it was not well founded,
and prayed "that its motion to file said amended and supplemental answer may be heard, etc." On the 12th of November,
1878, the report of the trustees and commissioners of the 7th
of May, as amended and modified as suggested by them, was
confirmed, and it was further ordered "that the consideration
of the petition of the defendants for a rehearing of the decree
in said cause at the last term of this court be postponed until
the next term of this court." In 1885 further evidence was
taken against the objection of the plaintiffs, and on the 13th
of November, 1885, the following decree was entered
"This cause came on to be further heard at this term and was
argued by counsel, and the court being of opinion that the de-cree rendered May 4th, 1878, having been rendered before the
master commissioner had executed the order of reference made
at the November term, 1877, was premature, it is therefore
adjudged, ordered and decreed that the said decree of the
May term, 1878, be, and it is hereby set aside and -held for
naught, and it is further adjudged, ordered and decreed that
the exceptions taken by the Bank of Lewisburg to the report
of Commissioner Gallaher, dated September 20th, 1883, and
filed October 1st, 1883, because the said commissioner failed
to mention and report in any way the debts asserted and
claimed in this clause by the said bank be sustained, and that
the said report be recommitted to the master without the
court at this time passing further upon said exceptions, with
instructions to inquire into, ascertain and report the following
matters and accounts," etc., etc.
The master made a report November 4, 1886, to which the
bank filed exceptions, because he had not reported the indebtedness due the bank as a preferred debt under the trust deed
to Sheffey and Bumgardner, and had reported that the bank
was only entitled to share parz passu with the other creditors:
and because he had not reported that the bank was entitled to
VOL. cxiL-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

preference by reason of being secured by the deed of trust of
October 11, 1875, and had reported that Sheffey, trustee in the
deed of November 20, 1876, did not have notice, prior to the
execution and record of the latter deed, of the execution by
Glendy of the former deed. On the 30th of November, 1887,
a decree was entered rejecting the petition for rehearing tendered August 2, 1878, and not allowing it to be filed, overruling the exceptions to the report of November 4, 1886, directing
the register of the court to pay over to the plaintiffs for distribution, the money which had been deposited with the bank
to the credit of the suit, with its accrued interest, and ordering the distribution of the fund in such manner as to secure a
.Prorata payment upon the claims proved, including such payments to the bank as would make its dividends equal to those
received by the other creditors. From this decree the bank
prayed an appeal to this court. The opinion of Judge Jackson will be found reported in 33 Fed. Rep. 315. He held that
the decree of May 4, 1878, was final and its subsequent vacation unauthorized, and also that plaintiffs were bona ftde purchasers without notice.
Lf" A. C. 8'nyde for appellant.
.ML" James Bumgardner,Jr., and -Hr A. B. Browne for
appellees. .Ar A. T BrWon. was with them on the brief.
MR. OCmE

JusTicE FuLLFR delivered the opinion of the

court.
Describing the decree of May 4, 1878, as "interlocutory,"
and that of November 30, 1887, as "final," appellant assigns
errors as follows That the decree of May 4 is erroneous, because it in effect overruled the demurrer to the bill, and denied
appellant's motion to file its amended and supplemental
answer, and that the decree of November 30, 1887, is erroneous, because (1) it rejected the petition for a rehearing, (2)
held the deed of November 20, 1876, valid, (3) overruled appellant's exceptions to the master's report, (4) held that the
deed to plaintiffs had priority over that of October 11, 1875,

LEWISBURG BANK v. SHEFFEY.
Opmlon of the Court.

(5) held that the debt of appellant was not entitled to priority
under the provisions of the deed to plaintiffs, and because (6)
it should have held that the appellant was entitled to the fund
m controversy, if for no other reason, upon theground of its
judgment obtained after Glendy had acquired the legal title
to the land. If the decree of May 4, 1878, were final, no
errors can now be assigned to it or considered upon this appeal: And if that decree, being final, covered all the grounds
of error urged to the decree of November 30, 1887, then the
latter decree must necessarily be affirmed. The application
for a rehearing was confessedly made after the adjournment
of the May term, at which the prior decree was entered, and
too late if that decree were final. Equity Rule 88, XclricAken
v Perin, 18 How 507, 511, Roemer v Simon, 91 U. S. 149,
( entral Trust Co. v Grant -Locornotve TMorks, 135 U S. 207,
224.
The controversy raised by the pleadings and to be determined
by the court was whether the property passed under the deed
to plaintiffs, or under that to M athews and whether the bank
was entitled to priority The effect of the sale by consent
was merely to substitute the fund in place of the real estate
and did not change the issues. On behalf of the bank it was
claimed that the trust deed to the plaintiffs was void on its
face, and that by the terms of that deed, if valid, the debt of
the bank was preferred. By the amended and supplemental
answer, which it sought to file, the bank raised the question
that Glendy, not having the legal title when he executed the
deed to the plaintiffs, and having by his prior deed to the bank
divested himself of his equitable title, the plaintiffs did not,
as Glendy's grantees, under a conveyance "without any warranty whatever," occupy the position of bona,#de purchasers,
nor were they protected by the recording statutes of the
State, ana the facts set forth therein involved, moreover, tue
position urged in the petition for rehearing, that the deed to
the plaintiffs being simply a grant without covenants, Glendy's
after-acquired legal title did not enure to them and that the
bank became entitled to the fund by virtue of its judgment,
which was recovered after Glendy acquired the legal title.

OCTOBER TERVI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

So that all these matters were necessarily passed upon by the
court and the decree in terms declared that the facts stated
in the amended and supplemental answer did not change the
rights of the parties in the cause, made the injunction perpetual and directed the fund to be brought into court for distribution "in accordance with the provisions of the deed of
Robert J Glendy to Hugh W Sheffey and James Bumgardner, Jr., bearing date on the 20th day of November, 1876."
This finally determined the entire controversy litigated between the parties and nothing remained but to carry the decree into execution. The bringing of the fund into court was
for the final distribution as decreed, and not to be held pending
the ascertainment of the principles upon which it should be
distributed. Hill v Chliago c Evanston Railroad Co., ante,
52, and cases cited.
The subject was much considered and many cases referred
to and classified and the distinctions indicated, in Keystone
Iron Co. v Martsn, 132 U. S. 01. It is there shown that
where the entire subject matter of a suit is disposed of by a
decree, the mere fact that accounts remain to be adjusted and
the bill is retained for that purpose, does not deprive the adjudication of its character as. a final and appealable decree.
It is true, as pointed out by Mr. Justice Field in Hill v
Chicago & Evanston Railway, supra, that an appeal may be
taken from a decree in an equity cause, notwithstanding it
is merely in execution of a prior decree in the same suit, for
the purpose of correcting errors which may have originated
in the subsequent proceeding. This was so held in Chtcago &
Vincennes Railroadv Fosdick, 106 U. S. 47, 83, and was the
rule sanctioned and adopted in -Forgayv Conrad,6 How 201,
and Blossomn v .21ilwaukee &c. Railroad Co., 1 Wall. 655.
An appeal will lie from such decrees according to the nature
of the subject matter and the rights of the parties affected.
But the errors assigned here relate solely to matters included
within the adjudication of May 4, 1878, except as the refusal
to permit the petition for rehearing to be filed may be otherwise regarded, though that petition was itself predicated upon
one of the aspects of the controversy And as to that allega-

IN RE ROSS.

453

Syllabus.

tion of error, we have already seen that the objection is not
well taken, even if open to consideration at all. .Brockett v

Brockett, 2"How 238.
Decree aifrmed.
In re ROSS, Petitioner.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF YEW YORK.
No. 1683. Argued April 30, May 1, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.
By the Constitution of the United States a government is ordained and
established "for the United States of America," and not for countries
outside of their limits; and that Constitution can have no operation in
another country.
The laws passed by Congress to carry into effect the provisions of the
treaties granting exterritorial rights in Japan, China, etc. (Rev. Stat.
§§ 4083-4096), do no violation to the provisions of the Constitution of
the United States, although they do not require an indictment by a grand
jury to be found before the accused can be called upon to answer for the
crime of murder committed in those countries, or secure to him a jury
on his trial.
The provision in Rev. Stat. § 4086, that the jurisdiction conferred upon
ministers and consuls of the United States in Japan, China, etc., by
§§ 4083, 4084 and 4085, shall "be exercised and enforced in conformity
with the laws of the United States, gives to the accused an opportunity
of examining the complaint against him, or of having a copy of it, the
right to be confronted with the witnesses against him, and to crossexamine them, and to have the benefit of counsel, and secures regular
and fair trials to Americans committing offences there, but it does notrequire a previous presentment or indictment by a grand jury, and does
not give the right to a petit jury.
The jurisdiction given to domestic tribunals of the United States over
offences committed on the high seas in the district where the offender
may be found, or into which he may be first brought, is not exclusive of
the jurisdiction of a consular tribunal in Japan, China, etc., to try for a
similar offence, committed in a port of the country in which the tribunal
is established, when the offender is not taken to the United States.
Article IV of the treaty of June 17, 1857, with Japan is still in force, notwithstanding the provisions in Article XII of the treaty of July 29, 1858.
When a foreigner enters the mercantile marine of a nation, and becomes
one of the crew of a merchant vessel bearing its flag, he assumes a temporary allegiance to the flag, and, in return for the protection afforded

