OCTOBER TERIf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of those judges and their familiarity with the laws of Illinois
give to these opinions great weight. We, therefore, dissent
from the conclusions of the court.

MITC)HELL v. SMALE.
ERRORl TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 167. Argued January 23, 26, 27, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Plaintiff, a citizen of Illinois, sued in ejectment to recover possession of
lands in that State claimed to have been granted to plaintiff's ancestor
by a patent of the United States, making the tenaut-a citizen of that
State, defendant. The owner, under whom the tenant claimed, a citizen
of New York, appeared and, on his motion, was made party defendant.
He then set up title under another patent from the United States, and
moved for a removal of the cause, first, upon the ground of diverse citizenship, which was abandoned, and then, secondly, that there was a controversy involving the authority of the land department to grant a
patent. Held, that the case was removable for the second cause.
Hardin v. Jordan,ante, 371, affirmed to the point that in Illinois, under a grant
of lands bounded on a lake or pond which is not tide water and is not
navigable, the grantee takes to the centre of the lake or pond ratably
with other riparian proprietors, if there be such; and that the projection
of a strip or tongue of land beyond the meandering line of the survey is
entirely consistent with the water of the pond or lake being the natural
boundary of the granted land, which would include the projection, if
necessary to reach that boundary.
EJEOTMIINT.

.Judgment for the defendant.

out this writ of error.

Plaintiff sued
The case is stated in the opinion.

.M rWilliam Prescott and .Mr S. S. Gregory for plaintiff in
error. Mr William .M. Booth and _Mr James S. Harlan
were with them on the brief.
Mr W C. Goudy for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

MITCHELL v. S2ALE.
Opinion of the Court.

The decision of this case depends upon the same general
principles which have just been discussed in the case of Eardin v Jordan, the two cases being in all essential respects
much alike, both of them relating to land on the margin and
under the waters of Wolf Lake. But before adverting to the
supposed distinction between them, it is necessary to examine
a question of jurisdiction.
The action was ejectment, and was commenced in the Circuit Court of Cook County, by Mitchell, the plaintiff in error,
against three defendants, Jabez G. Smale and John I. and
Frank I. Bennett, and summons was duly served on them.
The Bennetts, being attorneys, appeared specially for Conrad
N. Jordan, and moved that he be substituted as sole defendant. The motion was made upon an affidavit of Jordan that
the Bennetts had no interest, having conveyed the property
to him before the suit was commenced, and that Smale was a
mere tenant under him, Jordan, and had no other interest.
The court denied the motion, and thereupon Jordan, on his
own motion, was admitted to defend the cause as landlord and
as codefendant. Afterwards, and'in due time, Jordan filed a
petition under the act of 1875 for the removal of the cause
into the Circuit Court of the United States, alleging as a
ground of removal that the plaintiff was a citizen of Illinois,
and that he, Jordan, was a citizen of New York, and sole
owner of the property, and that the sole controversy in the
cause was between him, Jordan, and the plaintiff, stating the
facts previously affirmed in his affidavit as to the want of
interest in the Bennetts, and the tenancy of Smale. Objections to the removal being made by the plaintiff, Jordan asked
and obtained leave to amend his petition, and filed an amended
petition setting out, in addition to the facts stated in his
original petition, the following matter, to wit.
"Your petitioner states that said suit is one arising under
the laws of the United States in this, to wit, that plaintiff
seeks in and by said suit to recover lands embraced in a survey
of public lands made by the government of the United States
in 1874, embracing a part of said section twenty (20), t'p 37
N., R. 15 E., 3d P Al., in Illinois, and patents issued under

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

said survey under which your petitioner deraigned title in fee
simple before the commencement of said suit and in him then
vested by conveyance from the patentee.
"That the plaintiff claims that he is seized of the fractional
tract described in the declaration as the grantee of one
Horatio D. DeWitt, that the said survey, patents and deeds
of petitioner are not made in pursuance of the acts of Congress
and laws of the United States relating to the surveying and
disposition of the public lands of the United States, and that
said act of Congress and laws have been misconstrued by the
said land department and disregarded, and that said survey,
patents, deeds and the proceedings of the land department
are illegal and void and in violation of the contract rights of
said Mitchell under the laws of the United States, that by virtue of the alleged ownership of said fractional tract described
in the declaration he, the plaintiff, under and in pursuance of
said act of Congress and laws of the United States, is also the
owner of said lands so owned by your petitioner by virtue of
said survey of 1874 and patents and deeds thereunder. This
petitioner claims title in fee to said lands other than said fractional tract by virtue of said survey of 1874, said patents and
deeds issued thereunder in pursuance of the act of Congress
aforesaid and laws of the United States, and therefore states
that said suit is one arising under the laws of the United States
entitling this petitioner to a removal of the suit under the act
of Congress entitled 'An act to determine the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Courts of the United States, and to regulate the
removal' of causes from the state courts, and for other purposes,' in force March 3, 1875, for that cause alone."
Whether the facts stated in the original petition for removal
were sufficient for that purpose, may perhaps admit of some
question. The plaintiff was alleged to be a citizen of Illinois,
and the defendant, Jordan, a citizen of New York. The
citizenship of the other defendants was not mentioned, though
it is understood they were residents of Illinois. It is clear,
therefore, that the case was not removable unless the interest
of Jordan was so separate and distinct from that of the other
defendants that it could be fully determined, as between him

MITCHELL v. SMALE.
Opinion of the Court.

and the plaintiff, without the presence of the others as parties
in the cause. As he alone, according to his statement, had
the title, and as Smale was merely his tenant, if this relation
was admitted by Smale, (as it was,) there would seem to be no
good reason why the contest respecting the title might not
have been carried on between him and the plaintiff alone, so
far as Smale was concerned. This was done in the case of
Ayers v WTatson, 113 U. S. 594, but no objection to the removal on that ground was made, though objections were made
on other grounds, which were not sustained by the court.
Still, as the fact appeared on the record, if it had been sufficient to divest the Circuit Court of .urisdiction altogether, this
court could hardly have omitted to pass upon it. We do not
see that the statute of Illinois would make any difference in
the result. It merely declares that in ejectment the occupant
of the land shall be named as defendant, and that all other
persons claiming title or interest to or in the same may be
joined as defendants. Starr & Curtiss' Stat. 981, ยง 6. This is
merely declarative of the common law rule, and makes no
change in the character of the action or the principles of
procedure therein. True, it was decided in the case of Phelps
v Oaks, 117 U. S. 236, that the tenant is a proper party, and
that if the cause is removed by reason of his citizenship, the
Circuit Court will not be deprived of jurisdiction by the subsequent admission of the landlord as a defendant, though a
citizen of the same state with the plaintiff. But this does not
prove that a landlord may not become the primary and only
contestant, where the tenant's interests are subordinated to
and made dependent on his.
As to the other defendants, the Bennetts, there may have
been greater difficulty in sustaining a removal. They were
made defendants, apparently in good faith, and were not
acknowledged to be tenants of Jordan, and the plaintiff
might well insist on prosecuting his action against them, as
well as against Jordan, in order that, if he should be successful, there might be no failure of a complete recovery of the
land claimed by him. We have held that a defendant cannot
-make an action several which the plaintiff elects to make
joint. Little v Giles, 118 U. S. 596.

OCTOBER TERf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

But be this as it may, we think that the additional ground
of removal, stated in the amended petition, was sufficient to
authorize the removal to be made. It states very clearly that
the controversy between the parties involved the authority of
the Land Department of the United States to grant the patent
or patents under which the defendant claimed the right to
hold the land in dispute after and in view of the patent under
which the plaintiff claimed the same land. This, if true,.certainly exhibited a claim by one party under the authority of
the government of the United States, which was contested by
the other party on the ground of a want of such authority
In the settlement of this controversy, it is true, the laws of the
State of Illinois might be invoked by one party or both, but
it would still be no less true that the authority of the United
States to make the grant relied on would necessarily be called
in question. We are, therefore, of opinion that the ground of
removal now referred to presented a case arising under the
laws of the United States, and so within the purview of the
act of 1875. The amendment was properly allowed, and no
valid objection exists in regard to the time of the application.
The plaintiff's declaration as finally amended contained two
counts on which he relied, to wit
1. A count claiming the fractional S.W quarter of fractional
section 20, in township 37 north, range 15 east, according to
the official plat of the survey thereof filed in the land office at
Chicago, Illinois, prior to the year 1848.
2. A count claiming so much of the S.W quarter of said
section 20 as lies between Wolf Lake and Hyde Lake. (This
is the land immediately in front of that described in the first
count, and, in the -original plat, shown to be covered by
water.)
The defendants pleaded not guilty, and a jury being waived,
the cause was tried by the court before Judge Gresham, in
July, 1885, at the same time with the case of Hardinv Jordan.
The judge made a special finding of facts, and gave judgment
for the plaintiff for the S.W fractional quarter of fractional
section 20, in township 37 north, range 16 east, as patented by
the United States to Horace B. DeWitt under patent dated

MITCHELL v. SMALE.
Opinion of the Court.

March 1, 1850, and described in the first count, but limited by
the meander line of the original survey on the side next to the
lake, and as to all the rest of the land in dispute, found the
defendants not guilty
The fractional quarter section thus
found to belong to the plaintiff was one of the fractional lots
on Wolf Lake surveyed in 1834-5, as mentioned in the case of
Hardin v Jordan, lying on the north side of the lake, and on
the.plat of the survey it was shown as bordering on and
bounded by the lake.
The difference between this case and that of Hardin v Jor
dan is supposed to arise from the fact that the strip or tongue
of land running into the lake from the north side beyond the
meander line (as mentioned in HFardin v Jordan)was immediately in front of the fractional quarter section belonging to
the plaintiff. In the special finding of facts the court sets out
so much of the original survey as describes the meander line
running around the north end of the lake and eastwardly as
far as the Indiana line, and also a copy of the plat of the survey, an outline of which is shown in the report of Hardinv
Jordan. As stated in that case, the meander line is described
in the survey as running along the margin of the lake, and the
plat shows all the fractional lots to be adjoining the lake. The
finding then states that in March, 1850, Horatio B. DeWitt
purchased from the United States and received a patent for
the lot described as "the S.W fractional quarter of fractional
section 20, in township 37, range 15, in the district of lands subject to sale at Chicago, Illinois, containing 4-% acres, according to the official plat of the survey of the said lands returned
to the General Land Office by the surveyor general," and
that the plaintiff by mesne conveyances had acquired and held
the title in fee simple conveyed to DeWitt by said patent.
The finding then describes the lake and the tongue of land
projecting into it from the north side substantially as shown
in the report of ardin'v. Jordan, to which reference may be
made. The finding then proceeds as follows
"Eighth. That the lakes and lands not embraced in the
original survey -that is to say, all the lands, swamp as well
-as those covered by water, including the ridge, which are out-

4120

OCT03ER TERIH, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

side the meandered line run around said lake or lakes -the
Commissioner of the General Land Office caused to be surveyed in 1874, that after such survey was made the United
States, by its proper officers, sold to Alice A. Condit the west
half of the southwest quarter, the south half of the east half
of the southwest quarter, and lot 2 of the southwest quarter,
of fractional section 20, T. 37 N., R. 15 E., of this P K., and
issued to said Alice A. Condit patents in the usual form. for
said lands, and that the defendant, Conrad N. Jordan, is the
owner, by mesne conveyances, of the lands so patented to said
Condit, that Horatio 3. DeWitt, owner of the fractional S.W
I of fractional section 20 in the original survey, contested
before the proper officers of the land department the right
of the United States to sell and convey title to said lands
under said second survey, which contest was decided against
the said DeWitt by the Secretary of the Interior on appeal,
and in favor of the right of the United States to sell said lands
under said survey
"Ninth. That said meandered line as it was originally run
across said ridge from a point one chain east of the meander
corner on the west and as is now adopted by the court as a
line of boundary is entirely above the water, except where said
line intersects the east line of the fractional quarter section, to
which point the water of Wolf Lake may possibly reach at
high stages, and that in ordinary stages the waters approach
to within four or five chains of said point."
Our general views with regard to the effect of patents
granted for lands around the margin of a non-navigable lake,
and shown by the plat referred to therein to bind on the lake,
were expressed in the preceding case of Eardin v Jordan, and
need not be repeated here. We think it a great hardship, and
one not to be endured, for the government officers to make new
surveys and grants of the beds of such lakes after selling and
granting the lands bordering thereon, or represented so to be.
It is nothing more nor less than taking from the first grantee
a most valuable, and often the most valuable part of his grant.
Plenty of speculators will always be found, as such property
increases in value, to enter it and deprive the proper owner of

MITCHELL v. SMALE.
Opinion of the Court.

its enjoyment, and to place such persons in possession under
a new survey and grant, and .put the original grantee of the
adjoining property to his action of ejectment and plenary
proof of his own title, is a cause of vexatious litigation which
ought not to be created or sanctioned. The pretence for
making such surveys, arising from the fact that strips and
tongues of land are found to project into the water beyond the
meander line run for the purpose of getting its general contour,
and of measuring the quantity to be paid for, will always exist,
since such irregular projections do always, or in most cases,
exist. The difficulty of following the edge or margin of such
projections, and all the various sinuosities of the water line, is
the very occasion and cause of running the meander line, which
by its exclusions and inclusions of such irregularities of contour
produces an average result closely approximating to the truth
as to the quantity of upland contained in the fractional lots
bordering on the lake or stream. The official plat made from
such survey does not show the meander line, but shows the
general form of the lake deduced therefrom, and the surrounding fractional lots adjoining and bordering on the same. The
patents when issued refer to this plat for identification of the
lots conveyed, and are equivalent to and have the legal effect
of a declaration that they extend to and are bounded by the
lake or stream. Such lake or stream itself, as a natural object
or monument, is virtually and truly one of the calls of the description or boundary of the premises conveyed, and all the
legal consequences of such a boundary, in the matter of riparian rights and title to land under water, regularly follow
We do not mean to say that, in running a pretended meander line, the surveyor may not make a plain and obvious mistake, or be guilty of a palpable fraud, in which case the
government would have the right to recall the survey, and
have it corrected by the courts, or in some other way Cases
have happened in which, by mistake, the meander line described by a surveyor in the field-notes of his survey did not
approach the water line intended to be portrayed. Such
mistakes, of course, do not bind the government. Nor do we
mean to say that, in granting lands bordering on a non-navigable

OCTOBER TER,

1890.

Opinon of the Court.

lake or stream, the authorities might not formerly, by express
words, have limited the granted premises to the water's edge,
and reserved the right to survey and grant out the lake or
river bottom to other parties. But since the grant to the
respective States of all swamp and overflowed lands therein,
this cannot be done.
In the present case it cannot be seriously contended that
any palpable mistake was made, or that any fraud was committed, by the surveyor who made the survey in 1834-5. It
is apparent from the finding of facts that the lake in question
is subject to considerable changes in the height and depth of
the water therein. A datum, or bench mark, is used in Cook
County, Illinois, (where the premises in question are situated,)
as a standard of comparison for the height of water in Lake
Michigan. Of course the height o" water in Wolf Lake is
affected by that of Lake Micbigan, since they are connected
by two different outlets. The finding of facts states that the
level of water in the lake in question, when the government
survey was made in 1834-5, was 2.2 feet above the datum,
and four-tenths of a foot above the average level of Lake
Michigan, which is 1.8 feet above datum. But it also states
that Lake Michigan, at times, rises to five feet above datum,
which would cause the lake in question to rise to a level of
2.8 feet (or nearly 3 feet) higher than it was when the government survey was made. At such times, of course, very little
of the said projecting tongue of land would be visible. But
whether so or not, it would not alter the case. The existence
of such projecting tongue is entirely consistent with the water
or lake being the natural boundary of the plaintiff's land,
which would include the said projection, if necessary, in order
to reach the said boundary It has been decided again and
again that the meander line is not a boundary, but that the
body of water whose margin is meandered is the true boundary Railroad Co. v Schurmeir, 7 Wall. 272; Teferw v.
East Omaha Land Co., 134: U. S. 178, .Aiddleton v. Prztchard,
3 Scam. 510, Canal Trustees v HEaven, 5 Gilm. 548, 558,
Hiouck v Yates, 82 Illinois, 179, Fuller v Dauphin, 124
Illinois, 542, Boorman v Sunnucks, 42 Wisconsin, 235, _P're

MITCHELL v. SAALE.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, Brown, JJ.

.Afarquette Boon Co. v Adams, 44 Michigan, 403, Clut v
Fisher, 65 Michigan, 48, ]?dgeway v Ludlow, 58 Indiana,
249, .Kraut v Crawford, 18 Iowa, 549, Forsyth v Smale, 7
Bissell, 201. The case last cited, Forsyth v. Smale, presented
the very case of a tongue of land projecting beyond the
meander line into Lake George, a small lake in Indiana, situated to the east of Wolf Lake and connected therewith. It is
cited and commented on in the opinion in Hardinv Jordan.
In conclusion, our view on this part of the case is that the
patent to DeWitt conveyed, and the plaintiff is entitled to,
all of the fractional S.W quarter of section 20 from its northern boundary line extending southwardly to the actual water
line of the lake, wherever that may be, with the riparian
rights incident to such position.
The other points raised in the case have been discussed in
the opinion in Hardin v Jordan,and do not require further
notice. In conclusion, our opinion is that the judgment of the
Circuit Court should be reversed, and that a general judgment
should be rendered for the plaintiff for the property described
in both additional counts of his declaration.
The judgment w reversed accordingly, and the cause -s remanded wzth snstructwons to enterjudgment in conformity
with thws opzn'ton.
MM. JUSTICE BREWER, with whom concurred MR. JUSTICE
GRn.Y and M. JUSTICE BRoWw, dissenting.
0

MR. JusTCE GRAY, MR. JUSTICEF BRO-w and myself dissent
in this case also, as in the preceding, on the merits for the
reason stated therein. This further fact is worthy of notice.
The tract originally patented consisted of a fractional quarter
acres. It appears that
section, containing only four and at the time of the survey and patent, and now, there was and
is a tongue of land extending out beyond the surveyed land
into the lake, containing about twenty-five acres, so that by
purchasing this little piece of four acres and a fraction, at the
government price, the purchaser, as it is held, took title not
merely to the land surveyed, but to the twenty-five acres of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opmon

Brewer, Gray Brown, JJ.

dry land outside of the survey, as well as the large area of
land under the lake and in front of the bank. This result is
certainly suggestive.
On the question of removal it appears that in this action,
one of ejectment, there were present as defendants a tenant
and his landlord, the latter coming in on his own motion, after
suit was commenced. The tenant and the plaintiff were citizens of the same State. The Illinois statute of ejectment
bearing upon the question of parties defendant is as follows:
"If the premises for which the action is brought are actually
occupied by any person, such actual occupant shall be named
defendant in the suitoand all other persons claiming title or
interest to or in the same may also be joined as defendants."
Starr & Curtiss' Stat. 981, sec. 6. The defendant was therefore a necessary party In Phelps v Oaks, 117 U. S. 236,
which was also an action of ejectmenl, tenant and landlord
being parties defendant, the latter coming in as here after the
commencement of the suit, this court held that "the plaintiff
has a real and substantial 'controversy' with the defendant
(the tenant) within the meaning of the act for removal of
causes from state courts, which continues after his landlord is
summoned in and becomes a party for the purpose of protecting his own interests." This decision seems to us to forbid a
removal on the ground of citizenship.
So far as a Federal question is concerned, it is familiar
law that ejectment turns on the plaintiff's title. If that be
good, he is entitled to recover; if it fails, then it is immaterial
what claim or title defendant may have, the verdict must be
in his favor. "If there is any exception to the rule that in an
action to recover possession of land the plaintiff must recover
on the strength of his own title and that the defendant in possession can lawfully say, until you show some title, you have
no right to disturb me, it has not been pointed out to us."
-Reynolds v. 3 finzng Company, 116 U S. 687, 692.
If plaintiff's first grantor, by his patent from the government for the land on the bank, took title to the centre of the
lake, he was entitled to judgment for possession, and no act
of the officers of the land department, subsequently thereto,

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

could divest or limit his right or prevent his recovering judgment. On the other hand, if the patent only carried title to
the water line, then it is entirely immaterial to the plaintiff
what action the officers of the land department may have
taken in reference to the premises beyond, the defendant
would lie entitled to judgment, and that irrespectively of the
question whether he had any title, or though it was vested in
the State.
It is a novel proposition, that in an action of ejectment, a
party defendant can, by setting up some claim under the laws
of the United States, a claim which cannot be inquired into
on the trial, because it in no manner affects the plaintiff's
title, which is the subject of dispute, make such unnecessary
and irrelevant claim a ground of removal from the State to
the Federal court.
We think the case should have been reversed and remanded
to the state court, and in that way an early re6xamination
might have been had in the Supreme Court of the State on
the merits of the principal question.

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 68.

Submitted April 10, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Uncontradicted evidence of interested witnesses to an improbable fact does
not require judgment to be rendered accordingly.

THE petitioner, who is also the appellant, is a member of
the Chinese race, but claims to have been born within the
United States, and consequently to be a citizen thereof. He
is sixteen years of age, and arrived at the port of San Francisco in the steamship City of New York, in February, 1888.
The officers of customs refused to allow him to land, holding
that he was a subject of the emperor of China, and within
the restrictions of the act of Mlay 6, 1882, and the supplemenVOL. CXL-27

