OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Counsel for Parties.

remedy to compel Langley and Richards to recognize, receive
and act with the plaintiff as a member of the board. As sustaiming the views we have expressed, though not exactly in
point, see also R-ex v. -Harms,3 Burrow, 1420, Page v Hardin,
8 B. Mon. 648, State v .fayor, 23 Vroom, (54 N. J Law,)
332, Williams v. Clayton, Supreme Court of Utah, 21 Pac.
Rep. 398.
Our conclusion, therefore, is that the District Court had
jurisdiction, and that the merits of the controversy cannot be
inquired into collaterally in this way The judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico is
Afflrmed.
Mn. JUsTIcE BRADLEY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

KNEELAND v. BASS FOUNDRY AND MACHINE

WORKS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 334.

Submitted April 22,1891. - Decided May 25,1891.

Necessary supplies purchased on credit by the receiver of a railroad, appointed in foreclosure proceedings, if not paid out of net earnings before
the sale, are a charge upon the fund realized from the foreclosure sale;
and where the railroad managed by the receiver consists of two or more
divisions, which are sold separately and at different times to different
purchasers, it will be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that the court below has correctly distributed such charges among
the different divisions to which they properly belong.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Jl& Jon 21.. B tler for appellant.
.2r Robert C. Bell for appellee.

KNEELA1\TD v. FOUNDRY & MACHINE WORKS.

593

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTIcE LxAmA delivered the opinion of the court.

This case, like that of IYneeland v .awrence, ante, 209,
grows out of litigation respecting the foreclosure of the mortgage of the Central Trust Company of New York upon the
Toledo, Cincinnati and St. Louis Railroad.
The appellee herein, the Bass Foundry and Machine Works,
is an Indiana corporation, having its place of business at Fort
Wayne, in that State. It was an intervenor in the foreclosure
suit brought by the trust company against the railroad company, and, as such, filed several petitions setting up claims to
the fund arising from the sale of the road, by reason of having
furnished various supplies, (particularly set out in itemized
statements accompany its petitions,) to the receivers who operated the road pending the foreclosure litigation, and also to
the road prior to the appointment of a receiver. The claim
here in dispute is for supplies furnished the receivers, as aforesaid. There is no dispute but that the supplies were received
and that they were necessary for the continued operation of
the road.
The petition and claim were referred to William P Fishback, a master of the court, who, on the 12th of March, 1886,
reported that there was due the appellee, for supplies furnished
the receivers, the sum of $8009.22. The appellant filed exceptions to this report, but they were overruled by the court, and
on the 20th of November, 1886, a decree was entered confirming the report. This decree, among other things, povided as
follows:
"It is therefore considered that there be allowed said Bass
Foundry and Machine Works the said $8009.22, so found due
for supplies furnished said receivers, and that Noble C. Butler,
clerk of this court, be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to pay the same to said Bass Foundry and M achine Works
out of any funds in the registry of the court in said cause."
It is from this decree that the present appeal is prosecuted.
The entire time covered by the receiverships extended from
October 1, 1883, to April 18, 1885. In making up his statement of the account of the appellee with the receivers the
VOL. cxL-8

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

master divided that time into three periods. Those periods,
together with the amounts of the supplies furnished in each,
and the respective credits, are as follows
"Amount furnished from Oct. 1, 1883, to Dec. 1,
$1,695 01
1883 (1st period)
"Amount furnished from Dec. 1, 1883, to Aug.
10.085 76
1, 1884: (2d period)
"Amount furnished from Aug. 1, 1884, to April
1,085 14
18, 1885 (3d period)
$12,865 91
None.
"Credits during 1st period
"
2d
"
$2,291 63
S3d
"
2,565 06
4,856 69
"Balance due

$8,009 22"

As explained by counsel for both parties, the first period
represents the time when one Dwight was receiver for the
entire system of roads in Ohio, Indiana and Illinois, he haying been appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Indiana, at the suit of a judgment creditor,
the second period represents the time when one Craig was
the receiver of the entire systems of roads, he having been
appointed by the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio, at the suit of the trustees of the
bondholders, and the third period represents the time when
Craig was receiver of the main line of the road extending
from Toledo, Ohio, to East St. Louis, Illinois, after the other
Ohio divisions of the road had been sold on foreclosure decrees
and delivered to the purchasers.
The main line of the road, extending from Toledo, Ohio, to
East St. Louis, Illinois, was sold to the appellant herein, Sylvester H. Kneeland, on the 30th of December, 1885, and the
sale was afterwards confirmed. The Ohio divisions of the
road were sold to other persons.
The objection urged to the item of $1695.01, which was
for supplies furnished to the receiver Dwight, is, that Dwight

KNEELAND v. FOUNDRY & MACHINE WORKS. 595
Opinion of the Court.

was not the receiver for the bondholders and Kneeland, but
was appointed receiver at the suit of a judgment creditor,
that, so far as Kneeland and the bondholders are concerned,
the situation was precisely the same as if the company had
remained in possession of the road up to the expiration of
Dwight's receivership, December 1, 1883, and that, therefore,
that item should not be entitled to a preferred lien over the
claims of the bondholders. Kneeland v Amertcan Loan &
Trust Co., 136 U. S. 89, and S. C. 138 U. S. 509, are relied
upon as authority to sustain that contention. We do not
think, however, that that case will bear any such construetion. The claim in that case was for rental of rolling stock
used by the road during the period of the receivership, under
a contract of purchase made by the company with the owner
thereof prior to the receivership. The rental was not paid,
and the lessor took possession of his rolling stock. As respects
the claim for rental during the period of the receivership at
the suit of a judgment creditor, it was held, that it was not
entitled to priority of lien over the mortgage creditors, on the
foreclosure and sale of the road. In other words, it was held
that the bondholders, represented by the appellant, the beneficial owners of the property, could not be held liable for
rental value during the time the receivership was at the
instance of a judgment creditor. The theory of that ruling
was, that, as the earnings of the road did not pay the operating expenses, and as the lessor of the rolling stock had a lien
on only that personal property of the road, and was not
chargeable with ayro ,ratashare of such deficiency, he should
For, as was
be content with the return of his property
in
the adminis"when
the
court,
Brewer,
said by Mr. Justice
tration -of the receivership, thereafter returns the personalty
to the holder of the liens upon it, such lien holder must be
content to be relieved from any burden for apro .ratashare of
the deficiency, and has no equity to claim that he shall be not
only thus relieved, but that he may also charge upon the
realty, to the detriment of the lien holder thereon, both the
entire burden of the deficiency and compensation to him for
the use of his property" 136 U S. 100.

OOTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The general rule with respect to supplies furnished which
went into the corpus of the property covered by the mortgage.
and thus served to increase the fund arising from the mortgage sale, was thus stated in the opinion in that case "A
court which appoints a receiver acquires, by virtue of that
appointment, certain rights and assumes certain obligations,
and the expenses which the court creates in discharge of those
oblig tions are burdens necessarily on the property taken possession of, and this, irrespective of the question who may be
the ultimate owner, or who may have the preferred lien, or
who may invoke the receivership. So if, at the instance
of any party rightfully entitled thereto, a court should appoint
a receiver of property, the same being railroad property, and
therefore under an obligation to the public of continued
operation, it, in the administration of such receivership, might
rightfully contract debts necessary for the operation of the
road, either for labor, supplies or rentals, and make such
expenses a prior lien on the property itself." 136 U. S. 98.
As respects the supplies furnished the road in this case during the period of Dwight's recivership, the court below, inthe
exercise of its undoubted authority, ordered them paid out of
the fund arising from the sale of the road, because, so far as
the record shows, that was the only fund available, and they
had been necessary to the continued operation of the road,
and had gone into the general property covered by the mortgage which was sold at the foreclosure sale. They contributed
to the preservation of the property during the receivership,
and went towards swelling the fund arising from the sale on
foreclosure. Under such circumstances the court appointing
the receiver was justified, under the rule laid down in
lseland v Amemcan Loan & Trust Company, supra, in preferring such claim to the claims of bondholders whose property they assisted in preserving.
It was held in Fosdick v Schall, 99 U. S. 235, 253, 254, that
where a receiver has been appointed pending foreclosure proceedings by mortgage bondholders, the court in its discretion
may apply the net income to the payment of the claims of
employes and supply men, who, before the receiver was ap-

KNEELAND v. FOUNDRY & M1ACHINE WORKS.

597

Opinion of the Court.

pointed, furnished labor and materials required in the operation of the road, "not because the creditors to whom such
debts are due have in law a lien upon the mortgaged property
or the income, but because, in a sense, the officers of the company are trustees of the earnings for the benefit of the different classes of creditors and the stockholders, and if they give
to one class of creditors that which properly belongs to another,
the court may, upon an adjustment of the accounts, so use the
income which comes into its own hands as, if practicable, to
restore the parties to their original equitable rights." And it
was further remarked that "while, ordinarily, this power is
confined to the appropriation of the income of the receivership and the proceeds of moneyed assets that have been taken
from the company, cases may arise where equity will require
the use of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property
in the same way"
In MIiltenberger v Logansport Railway, 106 U. S. 286, it
was held that a court has the power to create claims through
a receiver, in a suit for the foreclosure of a railroad mortgage,
which shall take precedence of the lien of the mortgage, and
that it may provide for the payment of arrears due for operating expenses incurred before the receiver was appointed,
and make such expenditures a lien prior to the lien of the
mortgage.
In Union Trust Co. v. Souther, 107 U. S. 591, the same rule
was upheld, and a claim for supplies furnished before the
receiver was appointed was ordered paid out of the fund arising from the sale of the road, before the mortgage bondholders were paid, that fund not being sufficient to satisfy all
demands. See also Wallace v Loorms, 97 U. S. 146, 163,
and Burnharm v Bowen, 111 U. S. 776.
These authorities justify us in allowing the item in dispute.
Another objection to the claim herein is, that, even admitting that it should be paid out of the fund arising from the
sale of the road, it should not be entitled to payment out
of the fund arising from the sale of the main line of the road
alone, but should be distributed ratably among the several
divisions of the entire system of roads, according to a basis

OCTOBER TERMI, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

adopted by Special Master J D. Cox, in 1884, with respect to
the general liabilities of the entire system of roads under the
control of the several receivers.
It is quite true that the several receivers had control of and
opeiated the entire system of roads, and that these supplies
were furnished them while they were thus in control of the
roads, but there is nothing in the record going to show specifically by what division of the road these supplies were used.
Indeed, if any presumptions are to be indulged, it may justly
be presumed that they were all used on the main line of the
road from Toledo to East St. Louis. For the court below,
being familiar with the basis of distribution of liabilities
before referred to, and it not appearing anywhere in the
record that they were not used on that division of the road,
it must, of necessity, be presumed that the order made by the
court, that they be paid for out of this fund, was in accordance with the law and the facts of the case. The evidence
upon which the master made his report and the court made
its order is not before us, and, in the absence of anything
showing that the allowance was improperly made a lien upon
the fund, we must conclude that the court below committed
no error in the matter.
These remarks also dispose of the third point of the appellant, viz., that, as the main line of the road- that purchased
by Kneeland - was the only part of the system in the hands
of the receiver after August 1, 1884, it should be entitled to
credit for all payments made to the appellee by the receiver
after that date. In other words, the contention is, that as,
according to the master's report, the supplies furnished after
August 1, 1884, amounted to only 81085.14, and the credits
for that period amounted to $2565.06, the difference between
those amounts, to wit, $1479.92, ought to be applied as a
credit upon that portion of the appellee's claim which accrued
between December 1, 1883, and August 1, 1884, (the period of
the Craig receivership,) upon the aforesaid basis of distribution
of liabilities.
This contention, like the preceding one, assumes that the
supplies, which were furnished by the appellee, were used

UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO. 599
Syllabus.

indiscriminately upon all of the divisions of the roads. But,
as already stated, there is nothing in the record showing such
to have been the case, or that the Kneeland divisions of the
road id not receive all of them. Such being the case, the
presumption is, that the master, having all of the facts before
him, made a proper award in the premises, and that the court
below committed no error in confirming that award. The
court, in the exercise of its legitimate authority in the matter
of the appointment and control of the receivers, had ample
power to make such order or decree respecting the supplies
furnished those receivers as the law and the facts of the case
warranted, and in the absence of any circumstance showing
that there was any error committed in charging the fund arsing from the sale of the main line of the road with the lien
for the supplies in suit, we must assume that the proceedings
below were correct.
-Decreeaijirmed.
UNITED STATES v. DALLES MILITARY ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. OREGON CENTRAL M ILITARY
ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. WILLAMETTE VALLEY AND
CASCADE MOUNTAIN WAGON ROAD CO.
UNITED STATES v. KELLY
UNITED STATES v. COOPER.
UNITED STATES v. ROGERS.
UNITED STATES v. GRANT.
UNITED STATES v. FLOYD.
APPEALS FROM THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF OREGON.

Nos. 1218, 1219, 1248, 1444 to 1448.

Argued March 6, 9, 1891.-Decided May 25, 1891.

In suits in equity brought by the United States under the act of Congress
passed March 2, 1889, (25 Stat. 850,) against corporations and persons
claiming to own lands granted to the State of Oregon by the acts of

