BIRDSEYE v. SO{A EFFER.
Statement of the Case.

enforcement in the Federal courts of any rights created by
state law which impair the separation there required between
actions for legal demands and suits for equitable relief.
In the subsequent case of Whitehead v. Shattuck, 138 U. S.
146, Holland v. Challen was referred to and explained, and
it was said that a suit in equity for real property against a
party in possession would not be sustained, because there
would be a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law for the
plaintiff, and that it was only intended to uphold the statute
so far as suits in the Federal courts were concerned, in authorizing such suits against persons not in possession.
It follows from the views expressed that the court below
could not take jurisdiction of this suit, in which a claim properly cognzable only at law is united in the same pleadings
with a claim for equitable relief. Its decree must therefore be
Reversed, and the cause ''emnanded witA directions-to dismiss
the bill, without prejudice to an actzon at law for the
demand clamed, and it ss so ardered.
MR. JUSTICE LA-Aii did not sit in this case nor take any
part m its decision.

BIRDSEYE v. SCHAEFFER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 920. Submitted April 20, 1891. -Decided

April 27, 1891.

It is again decided that an order remanding a cause from a Circuit Court of
the United States to the state court from which it was removed, is not
a final judgment or decree which this court has jurisdiction to review.

THIS cause was removed to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Western District of Texas prior to the passage
of the act of March 3, 1887, providing that no appeal or writ
of error from the decision of the Circuit Court remanding a
cause to a state court from which it had been removed, should
be allowed. The order remanding the cause to the state court

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

from which it had been removed was made subsequent to that
act, but prior to the act of February 25, 1889, the writ of
error was allowed on the 7th of June, A.D. 1889, subsequent
to the act of February 25, 1889.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ on the grounds (1)
That there was no jurisdiction to issue the same and no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the record filed herein, (2)
Because the judgment of the Circuit Court complained of,
remanding the cause to the District Court of Kueces County,
Texas, from which it had been removed for trial, was not a
final judgment and cannot be reviewed by this court.
.M' Philip B. Thompson and .3f J 2. VFale for the motion.
Mr Bethel Coopwood and .M John Hancock opposing.
PER CuRixir. The writ of error is dismissed upon the authority of Gurnee v Patnck County, 131 U. S. 141, Ithomond & -Danville Railroad Co. v Thouron, 134 U. S. 45.
Dsmissed.
BALL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1351. Argued April 10,1891.-Decided April 27,1891.

On the 4th of December, 1888, the clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, certified to the
Circuit Judge for the fifth circuit that the District Judge of that district
was "prevented by reason of illness from continuing the holding of the
present November term of the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and also the
coming terms of- said courts at Tyler, Jefferson and Galveston, in the
year 1889." Thereupon the Circuit Judge issued an order designating and
appointing "the judge of the Western Judicial District of Louisiana to
conclude the holding of the present November term of the District and
Circuit Courts for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and-also
to hold the coming terms of the District and Circuit Courts in said Eastern District of Texas, during the year 1889, and during the disability of
the judge of said district, and to have and exercise within said district
during said period, and during such disability, the powers that are vested

