HENDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

25

Syllabus.

Does the statute of 1887, above quoted, impair such a contract ? We think it does, beyond all doubt. It, in so many
words, authorizes the board of commissioners to cancel the
certificates of sale where the twenty per centum of the purchase price of the land had not been paid prior to January 17,
1879, and treats the lands embraced in such certificates as
reverted to the State. That legislation surely impaired the
obligation of the contract Owen had with the State, for its
effect was to destroy valuable property, rights and privileges
belonging to him. It was, therefore, violative of the Constitution of the United States. Art. 1, ยง 10.
That statute being the one under which the appellants
assumed to act, affords them no security or immunity for the
acts complained of, and it cannot be said, therefore, that this
is a suit against the State, within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment.
Decree aflrmed.
HENDERSON
HITCHCOCK

.

. CARBONDALE COAL AND
COMPANY

COKE

CARBONDALE COAL AND

COKE

COMPANY
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 247, 248. Argued March 24,2 ,1891.-Decided April 20,1891.

The rule in Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, that "in equity as in admiralty,
when several persons join in one suit to assert several and distinct interests, and those interests alone are m dispute, the amount of the interest
of each is the limit of the appellate jurisdiction," affirmed and applied.
Equity leans against lessors seeking to enforce a forfeiture of the lease,
and only decrees in their favor when there is full, clear and strict proof
of a legal right thereto.
Leased property in Illinois being in the bands of a receiver, and there being
no evidence that he lived at St. Louis, proof of the mailing of a registered letter to him at that place, claiming a forfeiture of the lease for
non-payment of rent, and of an endorsement on the receipt of the receiver's name "per 0. Al. Pierce" is not such proof of the personal ser-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.
vice of demand and notice as authorizes a decree of forfeiture under
the statutes of Illinois.
The presumption that a letter mailed in the ordinary way reaches its destination, is a presumption of fact, not of law and does not arise unless it
also appears that the person to whom it is addressed resides in the city
or the town to which it is addressed.
No foundation is laid for a decree of forfeiture of a lease for non-payment
of rent, if it appears that the lease described in the notice of claim of
forfeiture is a different lease from the lease produced and proved in the
judicial proceedings to obtain such a decree.
Under the statute of Illinois full, clear and strict proof of delivery to the
proper party of a demand for payment of rent in arrear, and notice of
claim of forfeiture of a lease in case of failure to do so, is necessary, m
order to entitle the lessor to a decree of forfeiture.
A court of equity has f ull power over its orders and decrees during the
term at which they are entered, and may grant a rehearing of a cause at
the term at which it was heard and decided.
When a party who is ordered to appear in a pending suit in equity, voluntarily appears, without service of process, and answers, setting up his
claims, it is too late for him to object that there was error in the order.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
On the 1st day of February, 1878, there was existing under
the laws of the State of Illinois a corporation known as the
Carbondale Coal and Coke Company It then executed a
mortgage on its properties to secure the sum of fifty thousand
dollars. On the 1st day of January, 1881, it consolidated
w ith the St. Louis Coal and Coke Company, under which consolidation the new company assumed the liabilities of the coustitutent companies, but retained the name of the Carbondale
Coal and Coke Company Prior to the consolidation, the St.
Louis Coal and Coke Company had also executed a mortgage
to secure the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars. The business of the corporation was that of mining coal in the counties
of Williamson and Jackson, Illinois. For this business it
bought some lands and leased others. Its mortgages covered
both the property owned and the property leased. In October, 1884, a suit was commenced in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Illinois by certain
stockholders and creditors, making the company and the
trustees in the two mortgages defendants, and John W Harrison was on the same day appointed receiver. Subsequently

HENDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO. 27
Statement of the Case.

Harrison resigned his trust, and Howard A. Blossom was by
order of the court named as his successor. Among the leases
which the Carbondale Coal and Coke Company had were the
following One executed March 28, 1871, by G. T. Johnson
and wife, of one hundred and twenty acres, one April 5, 1873,
by Nancy Priddy, widow of Peters Priddy, and guardian of
the minor heirs of Peters Priddy, to wit, Belinda, Rodey,
Henry, Martha and Susan Priddy, of eighty acres; one March
25, 1871, by Thomas Waldron and wife, of forty acres; one
March 18, 1871, by Mary Waldron and Catharine Waldron,
widow of Henry Waldron, and guardian of the minor heirs of
Henry Waldron, to wit, Jacob, David, Martha, Henry and
Catharine Waldron, of one hundred and five acres, and one
March 18, 1871, by Tinsley Priddy and wife, of one hundred
and forty acres. The consideration of these leases was one
dollar per acre each year until such time as the lessee should
commence mining, and then a royalty of five cents per ton
for all coal mined. None of the leases were of the surface
ground, but simply of so much thereof as should be necessary
for the mining of coal thereunder, the sale and mining of coal
being the substantial matter of transfer. These leases also
contained this stipulation in respect to forfeiture. " And it is
furthermore agreed that if at any time said party of the second
part, its successors or assigns, shall be in default and fail to
pay any sum due for rent or royalty as aforesaid, for the term
of ten days after written demand therefor, by the party
legally entitled to demand and receive the same, the party of
the second part, its successors and assigns, shall forfeit all
right to mine in, or otherwise hold or enjoy, the tract or surveyed sub-division of land for and on account of which said
unpaid sum shall have become due, atd, after such default
and demand as aforesaid, the party legally entitled to the life
estate or fee simple ownership of said land may at once, or at
any time thereafter, enter into the exclusive possession thereof,
the mines and all the appurtenances thereto belonging, and
hold the same free and discharged of every and all claims of
the party of the second part, its successors, assigns, or other
legal representatives."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

Under these leases, prior to the appointment of the receiver,
the lessee had paid to these various lessors many thousand
dollars, and yet had never mined a ton of coal, or disturbed
the surface of the soil, so that this money had been paid by
the lessee without receiving any present equivalent, and solely
in anticipation of future profit from the mining of coal therein.
The time of payment of these rentals had been a matter of
convenience between the lessors and lessee. The former had
purchased goods at the store of the latter, and at the end of
the respective years a settlement of accounts had generally
been made. No stress had been laid by either party upon
the exact date, the first of January, at which the rents were
due. The rents due on the first of January after the appointment of the receiver, to wit, January 1, 1885, were not paid,
and as to some of the leases there was still other rent due.
More than six months thereafter, and on the 17th day of
July, 1885, an intervening petition was filed on behalf of all
these lessors or their successors in interest. The purpose of
thig petition was not the collection of rent, but the forfeiture
of the leases. Before the final decree in the Circuit Court,
Johnson settled with the receiver and dropped out of the litigation, leaving it to proceed in respect to the four other leases,
the amount of land included therein being three hundred and
sixty-five acres. For this land, as heretofore stated, annually
for more than a dozen years one dollar an acre had been paid
by the lessee to the lessors, without the slightest return to the
lessee - no occupation of the surface of the land - -no mining
of any coal. These lands were patented by the United States
to the original patentees between 1850 and 1860. The purchase
price of government lands was then one dollar and a quarter
per acre. As a matteit of general history, it is well known that
land warrants with which government lands could be located
were on the market at prices ranging from fifty cents to a dollar an acre. So that we start into this investigation with the
fact that these lands were bought from the government, title
in fee simple being acquired, not to exceed twenty years before
these leases, at not more than one dollar and a quarter per acre,
and that for more than a dozen years before the appointment of

]1ENDERSO

,v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

29

Statement of the Case.

a receiver and the commencement of this litigation, the owners
of these lands had received each year a dollar an acre rental,
without ever surrendering the possession of the surface, or losing a pound of coal beneath. In other words, that amount
paid was clear gain and with no loss.
It also appears that the mortgages were executed and the
bonds of the Coal and Coke Company negotiated on the security of these leases, as well as of the fee simple property, so
that while the lessors were receiving rent other parties were
loaning money to the lessee on the strength of its title to the
properties. Further, while in the order appointing the receiver the Coal and Coke Company was directed to assign
and transfer over to the receiver all its property, including
these leases, it does not appear that any actual assignment or
transfer was made by the Coal Company; and the receiver
apparently took possession only by virtue of the order of
appointment. No notice of non-payment, no claim of forfeiture, was given to the trustees in the mortgages, none to the
company mortgagor. The sole basis of forfeiture is in alleged
notices to the receiver, after the non-payment of the rent due
on January 1, 1885. No application was made to the court
for an order on the receiver for the payment of the rent, or,
in the alternative, a surrender of the leased property In fact,
all parties were ignored in the proceedings by which the forfeiture is claimed, except the receiver, and he was dealt with
as having such absolute ownership and entirety of control, as
to justify parties claiming a forfeiture of leasehold property
in his possession, in ignoring the court which appointed him,
the trustees of the mortgages which were being foreclosed,
and who represented the beneficial ownership of the property,
and the mortgagor which had taken the leases, given the
mortgages, and had an equity of redemption in the mortgaged
property
It further appears that the title to these properties had
changed since the execution of the leases. These changes
resulted from death and succession of interest as well as from
conveyances; so that there was at the time the receiver took
possession some doubt as to who were entitled to the rentals,

OCTOBER TERMA, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

or, at least, a portion of them.

In vew of this fact, the re-

ceiver had been advised by his counsel not to pay them until
an order had been made by the court for their payment, which
would be protection to him in so doing. In consequence of
this advice no payment was made. It does not appear that
any effort was made to satisfy the receiver as to the title to
this leased property, or as to the parties to whom the rent was
due, nor that there was any purchase of goods from the company's store, as theretofore, with the view of having the
amounts thereof applied on the rent. It does appear that there
was some talk among the lessors of the existence of a rival
corporation ready to rent these lands. Under these circumstances, the claimants, as heretofore stated, on July 17, 1885,
filed their petition. The receiver answered, and on September
15, 1885, an order was entered forfeiting the leases. An application for rehearing was made at the same term and on the
25th of September, which was immediately sustained. Thereafter and on the 23d of February, 1886, William E. Burr, the
trustee in the mortgage of the Carbondale Coal and Coke
Company, filed an answer to the intervening petition, and an
amount of money necessary to cover all these rentals was
deposited iii the office of the clerk of the Circuit Court, to be
paid to such parties as should show themselves entitled thereto.
Testimony was taken, and on the 6th of iovember, 1886,
upon the petition, answers of the receiver and trustee and the
testimony, a decree was entered dismissing the petition, adjudging the leases to be in full force, and directing all persons
claiming an interest in the rental fund to present their claims.
From this the intervenors have appealed, and their appeal is
the first of the two cases before us for consideration. The
other arises in this way Between the 15th of September,
1885, on which day the order was entered forfeiting the
leases, and the 25th of September, 1885, on which day the
rehearing was granted, Hitchcock, this appellant, leased from
the intervenors the lands whose leases had thus been forfeited.
After the rehearing had been granted, the court ordered that
he be made a party to the proceedings, in response to which
order he appeared and filed an answer, setting up his claims.

HENDERSON v. CAIBONDALE COAt & COKE CO.

31

Opinion of the Court.

At the same time and as a part of the decree against the
lessors, one was entered against him, decreeing that the leases
made by the intervenors to him be set aside, and that he be
restrained from interfering with the rights of the Carbondale Coal and Coke Company and the receiver to carry on
mining operations in these premises. From such decree he
has taken this appeal.
.A'

James .MeCartneyfor appellant Ethan A. Hitchcock.

Mr TIF T Barr for appellants Henderson and others submitted on his brief.
,.A H. J -MIay for appellees. .Mr A. H. Garland,.Mr
Charles S. Tavs&ig and 3f' James Tauszg were on the
brief.
:M . JusTieE Bi wE, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Is
A preliminary question in the first case requires notice
the amount in controversy sufficient to give this court jurisdiction of this appeal 2 What is the subject matter of the
controversy 2 Evidently the leasehold interests held by the
Coal and Coke Company What is the value of those interests? The pleadings in the intervention proceedings do not
disclose it. In the order allowing these appellants to appeal
it is stated that, "It appearing to the court that there is a
greater amount than the sum of five thousand dollars involved
in the property in suit by the intervening petitioners herein,"
(naming them,) "it is therefore hereby ordered, adjudged and
decreed by the court that said intervening petitioners be
allowed an appeal," etc. That is, the total value of all the
leasehold interests is found to be in excess of five thousand
dollars, but there is no joint interest on the part of these
several intervenors. They do not appear as jointly interested
in a single piece of the property in dispute. There are four
leases, each independent of the other, and each including
separate property The lessors in one lease are in no manner

OCTOBER TERMA,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

interested in the property covered by the other leases. While
the stipulations in the various leases respecting forfeiture are
alike, the proceedings for forfeiture are different, and, even
if similar proceedings were taken in each case, that would not
make a unity of interest in the various lessors. The forfeiture
of each lease is an independent cause of action, in respect to
which the lessors in the other leases have no interest. One
may have taken proper proceedings to establish a forfeiture,
and the other not. The failure of the one-would not defeat
the right of the other. Any lessor may drop out of the litigation without disturbing the right of the others to proceed.
The fact that they have united in one intervening petition does
not give them a unity of interest., It is precisely the same as
though four persons, having independent and separate claims
of fifteen hundred dollars each against the company, had
united their several claims in one petition. Even though no
objection on account of misjoinder was or could have been
made, it would not change the fact that each one's interest
was separate from that of the others, and amounted to only
fifteen hundred dollars. There is nothing in the pleadings or
in the findings which shows the separate value of each leasehold interest, and where there are separate interests the jurisdiction of this court does not depend upon the aggregate value
of such interests, but, as to each party, upon the value of his
interest. This matter has several times been considered in
this court, and the decisions are uniform. In the case of Gibson v Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, the question was considered at
length, and the authorities in this court fully reviewed. In it
the rule was stated as follows. " But in equity, as in admiralty,
when several persons join in one suit to assert several and
distinct interests, and those interests alone are in dispute, the
amount of the interest of each is the limit of the appellate
jurisdiction." There are no affidavits of value filed with this
record. Indeed, it is probable they would not be admissible.
Red Rver C'attle Company v..3eedlham, 137 U S. 632. If we
turn to the. testimony, we find nothing which satisfactorily
establishes the value of any one of these leasehold interests.
While one of the witnesses, assuming an uniform thickness of

HEINDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

33

Opimon of the Court.

the vein of coal beneath each tract, made large estimates of
value, yet other testimony plainly disclosed that which all
experience affirms, an uncertainty as to such thickness, and
also made manifest the expense and difficulties attending the
mining of whatever coal there may in fact be beneath the
property And more than that, the considerations of the conveyances offered in evidence clearly tend to establish that the
total value of no single leased tract, including therein both
the fee of the land and the leasehold interest, is equal to five
thousand dollars. Under these circumstances, this court has
no jurisdiction of this appeal, and it must be dismissed.
In the second case the appeal, as above stated, is by a party
who claims a subsequently acquired leasehold interest in all
the tracts, the aggregate value of which is found to be in
excess of five thousand dollars. So we proceed further to
.consid6r the question as to the right of forfeiture, for if the
leases were never forfeited Hitchcock could not by a subsequent lease acquire any rights to the coal, to the prejudice of
the Coal and Coke Company
Upon this matter we observe that it is evident, from the
statement of facts heretofore made, that the claims of the
intervenors rest upon no equitable considerations, but only on
the letter of the law They do not seek to continue their contract and recover the rent, but to enforce a forfeiture; and
forfeitures are never favored. Equity always leans against
them, and only decrees in their favor when there is full, clear
and strict proof of a legal right thereto. One condition essential to the forfeiture of a lease by the lessor was at common
law, and is, under the statutes of Illinois, a demand. In Prout
v Roby, 15 Wall. 471, 476, this court said, quoting from Connor v Bqradley, 1 How 217 "It is a settled rule at the common
law, that where a right of reentry is claimed on the ground
of forfeiture for the non-payment of rent, there must be proof
of a demand of the precise sum due, at a convenient time
before sunset on the day when the rent is due, upon the land,
in the most notorious place of it, though there be no person on
the land to pay" It is not pretended that any such demand
was made in this case. The statutes of Illinois have this proVOL. C0--3

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

vision. "Any demand may be made or notice served by delivering a written or printed, or partly written and printed,
copy thereof to the tenant, or by leaving the same with some
person above the age of twelve years, residing on or in possession of the premises; and in case no one is in the actual
possession of said premises, then by posting the same on the
Starr & Curtis's Annotated Statutes, 1885, p.
premises."
1495, sec. 10.
Under this section two methods of serving demand and notice
are provided. One personally upon the tenant, the other, on
the leased premises. There was no attempt at the latter. Indeed, as the lessors were in actual possession of the surface
of the ground, and the lessee had as yet made no entrance
into the coal veins, it might have been difficult to have complied with the statute,. by giving such a notice on the premises
as would have forfeited the leases. Neither was any notice
given at the offices or works of the Coal and Coke Company
in Illinois. What the lessors attempted, was to give personal
notice to the receiver, and to him alone, by mail, in St. Louis.
There is no testimony showing that Harrison, the receiver,
lived in St. Louis. It is true, in the cross-bill of the trustee in
the mortgage of the Coal and Coke Company, filed a year
after the appointment of the receiver, and months after the
filing of the intervening petition, Harrison is described as
residing in St. Louis, but if this description in the cross-bill of
the trustee can be invoked by the intervenors as an admission
in their behalf, it would seem to imply that the party whose
admission was thus relied upon was himself the one entitled to
notice, and, in this respect, it must be borne in mind that the
receiver was appointed, not at the instance of this trustee, or
m a suit filed by him, but at the instance of and in a suit fied
by certain stockholders and creditors of the Coal and Coke
Company
But passing this, as to two of the leases, notices were sent
on February 2, 1885, in a registered letter, and the registry
return receipt was in evidence. The endorsement on the
receipt is "JohnW Harrison, per C. I1. Pierce." These letters were not directed to Harrison as receiver of the Coal and

HENDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

35

Opinion of the Court.

Coke Company, and there is no testimony as to who C. Al.
Pierce was, or what relations, if any, he sustained to the Coal
and Coke Company, or the receivership or John W Harrison.
There was no other evidence tending to show that Harrison
ever received the notices. It may be that C. A. Pierce was a
secretary or employe of John W Harrison's, authorized to
receive and receipt for his letters, but there is no evidence as to
the fact. No reason is given why personal service was not
made on Harrison. Doubtless, as receiver, he was often at the
company's office and works in Illinois, in the immediate neighborhood of the leased premises, and the residences of the lessors. At any rate, St. Louis is not very distant, and if it were
too much trouble for these lessors, themselves, to visit St. Louis,
the notices could easily have been sent to some one there, by
whom personal service could have been made. It is true that
the receiver, in his answer to the intervening petition, does not
deny the receipt of these notices. But for two reasons this
does not help the intervenors. First, the allegation in the petition in respect to demand and notice, and the service thereof,
is limited by a reference to the writing containing the demand
and notice, a copy of which is attached as an exhibit, and a
like reference to the registry return receipt, also attached as
an exhibit, and doubtless the receiver could not deny these
matters. The question is not whether these demands and
notices were prepared and placed in an envelope and mailed
as stated, nor whether the registry return receipt was as
stated, but whether these facts establish personal service on
the receiver. His failure to deny the facts does not justify
the inference which intervenors draw from them. It only
leaves the matter for the determination of the court. The
other is, that in equity proceedings a party must prove all the
facts necessary to his right, except so far as they are admitted
by the adverse party From these considerations it is evident
that, as to these two cases, no such proof was made of the
personal service of demand and notice as entitled petitioners
to a decree of forfeiture.
Passing now to a third lease -the one executed by Nancy
Priddy, as widow and guardian. It appears that the property

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opmon of the Court.

leased passed, by sundry conveyances subsequent to the lease,
to William Henderson, one of the intervenors. We do not
understand that there is any question as to his ownership of
the property, or as to his having acquired all the title originally held by the lessors. He, too, attempted to give notice
by mail, instead of by personal service, and on the 1st of January, 1885, at Carterville, Illinois, he mailed a notice, of which
the following is a copy, to John W Harrison, receiver, etc., at
St. Louis, Missouri.
" CAIiTERVILLE, ILL., Jantcry 1, 1885.
"To John W Harrison, Receiver of the Carbondale Coal and
Coke Company
"Sm There is now due me for rent or lease money on east
one-half of the southeast quarter of section 33, township 8,
range 1 east, eighty dollars for the year 1884. I hereby demand payment of the amount due me and for said rent as
aforesaid, and if payment be not mad'e within ten days from
the date of this demand I shall claim a forfeiture in accordance with the terms of the lease heretofore given to A. C.
Bryden, president of the Carbondale Coal and Coke Company,
by me, for the minerals underlying said above-described real
estate.
"Yours truly,
WILLIAM HENDERSON."
This notice was not mailed in a registered letter. There is
no testimony as to whether the letter thus mailed was returned
to the sender, and no evidence of the receipt of the letter,
other than that which flows from the fact of mailing. lTndoubtedly, under some circumstances, this is evidence of the
receipt. In 2 Wharton on Evidence, sec. 1323, the rule is thus
stated "The mailing a letter, properly addressed and stamped,
to a person known to be doing business in a place where there
is established a regular delivery of letters, is proof of the reception of the letter by the person to whom it is addressed.
Such proof, however, is open to rebuttal, and ultimately the
question of delivery will be decided on all the circumstances of
the case." In support of this proposition many authorities are
cited, among them the case of Lsndenbergerv Beal, 6 Wheat.

HENDERSON v. CARtBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

37

Opmon of the Court.

10-. In the case of United States v Babcock, 3 Dillon, 571,
573, in which the question was elaborately discussed by counsel, Judge Dillon stated the law in these words "Upon the
subject of the admissibility of letters, by one person addressed
to another, by name, at his known post-office address, prepaid,
and actually deposited in the post office, we concur, both of
us, in the conclusion, adopting the language of Chief Justice
Bigelow in Comm. v Jefrzes, 7 Allen, 548, 563, that this 'is
evidence tending to show that they reached their destination,
and were received by the persons to whom they were addressed."' This is not a conclusive presumption, and it does
not even create a legal presumption that such letters were
actually received, it is evidence tending, if credited by the
jury, to show the receipt of such letters, -"a fact," says
Agnew, J., Tanner v Hlughes, 53 Penn. St. 290, "in connection with other circumstances, to be referred to the jury, under
appropriate instructions, as its value will depend upon all the
circumstances of the particular case." See also Rosenthal v
Walker, 111 U. S.185. This presumption, which is not a presumption of law, but one of fact, is based on the proposition
that the post office is a public agency charged with the duty
of transmitting letters, and on the assumption that what
ordinarily results from the transmission of a letter through the
post office probably resulted in the given case. It is a probability
resting on the custom of business and the presumption that the
officers of the postal system discharged their duty But no
such presumption arises unless it appears that the person addressed resided in the city or town to which the letter was addressed, and in this respect the observations heretofore made
as to the evidence that 1arrison, the receiver, resided in St.
Louis, are pertinent.
But, passing that, let us examine the notice itself. The real
estate is described, and an amount of rent alleged to be due,
but the claim of forfeiture is, as expressed, "in accordance
with the terms of the lease heretofore given to A. C. Bryden,
president of the Carbondale Coal and Coke Company by me."
No such lease appears in evidence. The only lease in respect
to this real estate shown is one from Nancy Priddy, widow of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Peters Priddy and guardian of the minor heirs of said Peters
Priddy, to the Carbondale Coal and Coke Company We
may not assume what the provisions of the lease referred to
were in respect to forfeiture, and there can be no doubt but
that parties to a lease may, by express stipulation, provide for
an extension of the statutory conditions of forfeiture. We do
not mean to be understood as saying that parties may by contract deprive the lessee of the protection against summary forfeiture, given by the statute. There may be a public policy
which will prohibit any such agreement for a summary deprivation of right, but there is no public policy which prevents
contract stipulations in the other direction. Parties may
make a lease, with a valid stipulation therein, that no forfeiture shall take place until after twelve months' demand and
notice, and in other respects limiting the right of reentry
And when a forfeiture is demanded in accordance with the
terms of a lease, before such forfeiture can be decreed it is
necessary that the lease be produced in evidence, in order that
the court may see that there are in it no contract stipulations
in respect to forfeiture beyond the statutory provisions. It is
true that the intervenor Henderson testifies that he did not
give any lease to A. C. Bryden, and that the lease he referred
to in his demand was that given by Nancy Priddy, guardian,
etc., to the Cole and Coke Company on April 5, 18'[3. But
can it be that parol testimony is competent to thus change
the whole tenor and scope of a written instrument? This is a
proceeding in strict right. Intervenor demands a forfeiture,
and as evidence of his right to a forfeiture alleges a written
demand in accordance with the terms of a described lease.
When his case comes on for hearing he says there is no such
lease, and the one referred to was an entirely different lease,
between different parties from those therein named. Surely
it needs no argument to show that such a notice, with such
evidence, does not lay the foundation for a decree of forfeiture.
With regard to the remaining lease, substantially the same
observations are appropriate. This was the notice which was
given, and it was served in the same way

HENDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

39

Opinion of the Court.

" CARTERVILLE, ILL.,

Jan. 1, 1885.

"To John W Harrison, receiver of the Carbondale Coal &
Coke Company
"SI
There is now due me for rent of lease on southwest
quarter of southeast quarter of section 33, township 8 south,
of range 1, forty dollars ($40) for the year 1844, less the
amount received at the company's store, at Carterville, Ill., m
goods, etc. I hereby demand payment of the amount due me
for said rent as aforesaid, and if payment be not made within
ten days from the date of this demand I shall claim a forfeiture in accordance with the terms of the lease heretofore given
to you by me for minerals underlying said above-described
real estate.
"Yours truly,
JOSEPH WAxDRoN."
The only lease of this real estate, which was in evidence,
was one executed March 11, 1873, by Thomas Waldron and
his wife, Barbara Waldron, to the Carbondale Coal and Coke
Company, which lease recites that on the 25th day of March,
1871, a right had been given by Joseph Waldron and wife to
Frank J Chapman and two others, to enter upon the premises
and mine the coal and other mineral therein, upon certain conditions which are not detailed, and which further recites, "that
Thomas Waldron and wife are now the owners of the real
estate, and that the mining rights given to Chapman and
others have been assigned to the Carbondale Coal and Coke
Company," and thereafter proceeds to describe the terms and
conditions of the lease. Similar testimony was given as in
the Henderson case, except that in this the intervenor did not
testify that he had not made a lease directly to the receiver,
nor that the lease which he referred to in his demand was the
one executed by Thomas Waldron and wife to the Carbondale
Coal and Coke Company This, however, makes no material
difference, for, as we have seen, the testimony of Henderson as
to his intentions and what he meant by his demand is incompetent as against its plain letter. It is needless, therefore, to
enter into any new discussion of the sufficiency of this demand
and notice.

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

In conclusion, in respect to all these leases, it may be observed that there is not that full clear and strict proof of the
delivery to the receiver, even if he were the party alone
entitled thereto, of a demand and notice, correct in its description, and sufficient to entitle the lessor to a forfeiture.
Appellant further insists that the court erred in granting a,
rehearing to the receiver. The rehearing was granted at the
same term, and it is familiar law that a court of equity has.
full power over its orders and decrees during the term in which
they are entered. In Doss v Tyacek, 14 How 297, 313, this
court said "The court, in vacating the decree, were correcting an error both of fact and of law, and, during the term at
which it was rendered, they had full power to amend, correct
or vacate it, for either of these reasons." And in Basset v
lfnited States, 9 Wall. 38, 41, in which the action of a court
in setting aside a judgment at the same term at which it was
rendered was sustained, it was said that "this control of the
court over its own judgment, during the term, is of every-day
practice." As from the foregoing opinion it is apparent that,
the court erred in its first decree, its action in granting a rehearing cannot be condemned, and where a judgment or
decree is set aside at the term at which it is rendered, it is as
though it had never been. It appears from the evidence that
Hitchcock had full notice of the proceedings in the Circuit
Court, so that he cannot claim to have been misled. Knowing that the court had full power during the term to vacate
its own decree, he took these leases subject to the possibility
of such vacating of the decree.
It is also objected that there was error in making Hitchcock
a party to these proceedings; but, although the court ordered
that he be made a party, no process was served on him, he
voluntarily appeared and filed an answer, setting up his
claims. It is too late now for him to object that there was
error in this.
12Brom these 'varous constderattons it zs ordered that the
appeal zn N~o. 247 be dismissed, and that the decree sn JATo.
248 be affirmed.

