HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Statement of the Case.

grand or petit, m order to secure to persons of their race
justice and equality in the administration of the law, and,

further, that the manner in which jurors to serve in the state
courts shall be selected, and the qualifications they shall possess, are matters entirely of state regulation.

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 161. Argued January 23, 26, 27, 1S91.-Decided May 11, 1891.
In ejectment a plaintiffimust stand or fall by his own title, and cannot avail
himself of a defect in the title of the defendant.
Grants by the United States of its public lands bounded on streams and
other waters, made without reservation or restriction, are to be construed,
as to their effect, according to the law of the State in which the lands lie.
It depends upon the laws of each State to what extent the prerogative of
the State to lands under water shall extend. The cases reviewed.
A judicial decision of the present day, made by the court of highest authority in Great Britain, is entitled to the highest consideration on a question
of pure common law.
By the common law, under a grant of lands bounded on a lake or pond
which is not tide-water and is not navigable, the grantee takes to the
centre of the lake or pond, ratably with other riparian proprietors if
there be such. and this rule prevailed in Illinois when the patent to the
plaintiff's ancestor was granted in 1841, and is still the law of that State,
notwithstanding the opinion of its highest court in -Trusteesof Schools v.
Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509.
The ruling of the Supreme Court of Illinois in its opinion in Trustees of
Schools v. Schroll, 120 Illinois, 509, that a grant of lands bounded by a lake
or stream does not extend to the centre thereof, was not necessary to the
decision of the case, and, being opposed to the entire course of previous
decisions in that State, it is disregarded.
The adverse decision of the land department does not estop plaintiff, because it had no jurisdiction over the case.

EJEo ENT. Judgment for the defendant. The plaintiff
sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the opmon.

OCTOBER TERMi,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

Z'

Thomas Dent for plaintiff in error.

.

-fF C. Goudy for defendant m error.

MR. usmoE BADL-EY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment brought by Gertrude H.
Htardin, the plaintiff in error, to recover possession of certain
fractional sections of land lying on the west and south sides
of a small lake in Cook County, Illinois, situate about a dozen
miles south of Chicago, and two or three miles from Lake
Michigan, and also to recover the land under water in front
of said fractional sections and land from which the water
retires at low water. The lake is two or three miles in extent,
and the main question in the cause is, whether the title of the
riparian owner on such a lake extends to the centre of the
lake, or stops at the water's edge. The court below decided
that the plaintiff's title only extended to low-water mark, and
to that extent gave judgment for the plaintiff, but as to all
the land under permanent water, gave judgment for the defendant. The question is of much importance, and deserves a carefil consideration. Some question was made in the argument
whether the pleadings presented the points at issue with
sufficient distinctness. We think they do, and shall not waste
any time on that point.
The annexed diagram shows the situation of the property,
as delineated on the plat of the government survey, made in
1834-5. The plaintiff claimed under a patent from the United
States, granted to her ancestor, John Holbrook, in 1841, for
the following fractional quarter sections. to wit S.E. fractional quarter of section 19, N.E. fractional quarter of section
30 and east part of S.E. fractional quarter of section 30, designated by the letters A, B and 0 on the plat. The defendant
disclaimed any interest in the fractional quarter sections themselves, but claimed all the land in front of them, whether
covered with water or not, by virtue of various patents
granted in 1881.
The cause was twice tried before the court without a jury,

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.
Outline of official plat of the Fraternal Township 37 North, Range 15 East,
as per government survey of 1834-5.

Holbrook's patent, under which plaintiff claims, was for S.E. fractional I
See. 19; N.E. fractional I Sec. 30; East fraction S.E. I Sec. 30, designated
by the letters A, B, C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

first, before Judge Blodgett in 1883, and, secondly, before
Judge Gresham in 1885, a second trial in an action of ejectment
being allowed as of course under an Illinois statute. Hurd's
Rev. Stat. Ill. 599, Ill. Rev Stat. 1845, p. 208. The same
result was arrived at on each trial. Judge Blodgett delivered
an opinion which is reported in 16 Fed. Rep. 823. Judge
Gresham did not deliver an opinion. He made a special
finding of facts, on which judgment was rendered, and a bill
of exceptions presents the evidence offered by the defendant
in opposition to the plaintiff's claim. This evidence tended to
prove that there was, in fact, within the meander lines of the
public survey of the lake a streak or tongue of upland not
covered by water at its ordinary height, and showed the action of the land department in ordering a survey of the bed of
the lake, and a grant of the same to different parties - which
evidence was objected to by the plaintiff, and an exception
taken. The result of this evidence is expressed in the special
finding of the court.
The special finding of facts was as follows
"(1.) That plaintiff is seized in fee of the southeast fractional I of section nineteen (19), the northeast fractional and
the east fraction of the southeast fractional of section thirty
(30), all in township thirty-seven (37) north, of range fifteen
(15) east, in Cook County, State of Illinois, as per patent from
the United States of America to John Holbrook, plaintiff's
ancestor, dated May 20, 1841, in which patent the grant of
said lands is recited to be 'according to the official plat of the
survey of the said lands returned to the General Land Office
by the surveyor general;' that said patent was based upon an
entry by said John Holbrook, made m the year 1838, at the
United States land office in Chicago, Illinois.
"(2.) The government survey of lands in fractional township thirty-seven (37) aforesaid was made in the years 1834
and 1835, and the field-notes thereof as to the lands in question were as follows, to wit: [The field-notes are then given
m extenso, expressly describing the meander line of the fractional sections as being "along the margin of t e lake," from
the intersection of the south margin thereof with the Indiana

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opimon of the Court.

state line, and thence going westwardly, northwardly and eastwardly, around the entire contour of that portion of the lake
which is situated in the State of Illinois. The finding of the
court then introduces the plat made from said survey and fieldnotes for the local land office, the surveyor general's office,
and the General Land Office, which shows the said fractional
sections bounded on said lake, and the words "Navigable
lake" written on the body of the portion representing the
lake, as in the annexed diagram. The finding then proceeds
as follows:]
"(4.) The body of water shown upon the plat referred to
as a navigable lake was in fact meandered by the surveyor,
the meander line being run substantially upon the margin of
said lake, as shown by said plat, save as follows, viz. That
the said line was carried across a certain ridge of land extending from the centre of fractional see. 20, in said township,
in a southerly direction towards the point of land shown in
said plat as comprising the east fraction of the southeast quarter of sec. 30 and fractional see. 29, in said township, said
ridge or strip of land thus projecting into said body of water
southerly about 220 rods, being of varying width and elevation and covered with timber - oak, hickory, elm, ash, poplar,
linden and hackberry-three feet in diameter and under,
the width of said ridge, limiting it to dry land at ordinary
stage of water, being over 28 rods at the north and of varying
width, being in some places slightly wider and at some narrower, extending to a depression about 140 rods south, and
thence south of a general character but slightly narrower
and lower a distance of about 80 rods, at the last-named point
said ridge disappearing, and from there to a point south about
80 or 90 rods the bed and growth are of the same general
character as the bed and growth along the margin of the lake,
and on either side of the ridge reeds and coarse grass growing
in the water and there being nothing but such growth to
obstruct the flow of water from one side to the other, the
depth at this point being sufficient at high water to enable
skiffs and small boats to be rowed through from one side to
the other, the water west having for many years been known

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as Hyde Lake, in ordinary speech, while that to the east has
been currently known as Wolf Lake, said space or distance
last described being marsh land at low water; that at the
south limit of the tract last described is a small body of land
known as Elm Island or Fogli's Place, of the extent of 1-. or
2 acres, upon which timber grows of the same character as
that on said ridge, to the south of which for about 50 rods
there is water at high stages and marsh at medium stages, at
which point or distance the ridge appears again as dry land
about 30 rods to a little east of north from the north point of
the meander line of the point of land comprising fractional
section 29, etc., before referred to, there being also a small
knoll bearing a number of small trees or bushes about 2&
rods northwest from the northerly point of the ridge last
mentioned.
"Upon the entire western margin of the water shown on
the plat and extending some 20 or 25 rods east from the
meander line, and also on the east and west margin of the
dry land of said ridge to the north, as well as in the space
between said ridge and Elm Island and in the space above
described south of said Elm Island., the vegetation is solely a
marsh growth of reeds and coarse or swamp grass growing
in the water and of a uniform character, and the same is true
as to the southerly portion of the lake west of plaintiff's land
in the east fraction of the southeast fractional I of said section 30. The physical condition west of the meander of said
east fractional, etc., is the same for a distance of 91 or more
rods westerly as it is generally at and along said meander
line, the same character of growth as aforesaid appearing in
the water at ordinary and high stages for said distance west
of said line, the greater part of plaintiff's said land in said east
fraction of the southeast fractional quarter of said section 30
being wet and unfit for cultivation and only slightly higher
than that to the west, there being 2T-f acres in said east fraction, treating the meander line as a boundary, in the form of
a right-angle triangle, with its base resting on the south section line with the meander line as a western boundary thereof.
The point at which to the south the open water of said lake

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ceases and marsh grass begins is several rods north of the
south line of said section 30. The physical conditions of the
land and water are substantially what they were at the time
of the original survey, that said lake or lakes are not navigable
waters.
"(5.) At the time of said government survey there was a
natural outlet for said lake towards the northeast into Lake
Michigan through Wolf River, said river being about 1 miles
long and from 6 to 14 feet in depth, but such outlet was and
has continued to be subject to interruption by the formation of
a sand bar across the mouth thereof upon the shore of Lake
M,ichigan. There was also an outlet from the westerly portion of said lake into the Calumet River, shown on said plat
as Little Kalamick, said outlet into the Calumet River running
in a westerly direction through the fractional north J of said
section 30 to its connection with said Calumet River.
"(6.) The level of water in said lake or lakes is subject to
fluctuations alike from the operation of the change of the level
of Lake M ichigan from storms, winds, etc., and also from the
operation of rains, thaws, evaporations, etc., but said 'lake'
or lakes is or are occupied by permanent water, and substantially the entire bottom thereof is below the mean level of
Lake Michigan, and the greater portion of it is below extreme
low water in said Lake Michigan, so that said ' lake' or lakes
never become entirely dry, nor has any considerable portion
thereof within its margin, as shown by the said government
plat, ever been fit for cultivation except as to said Elm Island
and said ridge hereinabove described.
"(7.) That at times of high water, however produced, the
water in said lake or lakes extends to and beyond the -limits
that it occupied at the time of said government survey
"That a level of Lake Michigan has been adopted in all surveys in Cook County called datum, that the extreme rise and
fall of Lake Michigan is from 5 feet above datum to one foot
below datum, that the average level of water in Lake M ichigan is about 1.8 feet above datum.
"That the level of water in said lake or lakes when the same
reaches the level existing at the time of the government sur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

vey of 1834 and 1835 is 2.2 above datum and .4 (T.) foot above
the average level of Lake Michigan.
"(8.) That defendant and those under whom defendant
claimed, constituting the defendants in said original causes
which were consolidated into theL present case, entered into
and took possession of the lands described in the plaintiff's
declaration, except so much of the southeast fractional I of
section 19, the northeast fractional J of section 30 and the
east fraction of the southeast fractional I of said section 30
as lay beyond and outside of the meander line as run upon the
margin of said lake by said government survey, and defendant
'was so in possession at the time of said suit and trial thereofL
Upon the facts shown in evidence the plaintiff asked the court
to hold and adjudge that, under the grant to plaintiff's ancestor, plaintiff, as a riparian proprietor, took to the centre of
said so-called 'navigable lake,' and all the said lands granted
to plaintiff's ancestor bordered upon said so-called ' navigable
lake,' but the court refused to so hold, and, on the contrary
thereof, held that the plaintiff's lands in said sections 19 and
that part of 30 west of said lake were bounded by said lake,
the right of possession extending to low-water mark in said
lake, but as to said east fraction of the southeast J of section
30 the court held that the plaintiff was bounded by the meander line run by the U S. surveyor and not entitled to claim
said lake as her boundary, to which plaintiff excepts, etc."
Judgment was entered in conformity with this finding as
follows, to wit
"That as to the east fraction of the fractional southeast
quarter of section thirty (30), township thirty-seven (37) north,
range fifteen (15) east, of the third P M., Cook County, Illinois, the defendant is not guilty
"It is further adjudged and determined that the plaintiff is
seized in fee of the southeast fractional quarter of section
nineteen (19) and the northeast fractional quarter of section
thirty (30), both in township thirty-seven (37) north, range
fifteen (15) east, of the third P M., Cook County, Illinois;
that by the terms of the patent of said lands to John Holbrook, plaintiff's ancestor, the grant of said last-described lands

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

was bounded by and extends to a body of water along the
easterly line shown on the government map or plat of the
government survey as a 'navigable lake,' that plaintiff is
entitled to claim to low water as her eastern boundary of said
lands last described, that defendant, as to the parts of said
last-described lands lying between the meander line run in the
government survey and the margin of said lake at low water,
is -guilty of unlawfully withholding the possession thereof
from the plaintiff, and it is therefore ordered and adjudged
that the plaintiff have and recover of said defendant the possession of said lands so unlawfully withheld as aforesaid,
including the dwelling-houses erected thereon by Andrew
Ferrand and Chester 13. Rushmore and any other structures
thereon, and as to costs in this behalf they are apportioned at
two-thirds (2-) of all costs taxed in this cause to be paid by
defendant and the remaining one-third by plaintiff, and that
plaintiff have execution therefor and a writ of possession, etc.
As to the residue of the lands described in plaintiff's declaration defendant is adjudged not guilty, to which judgment
plaintiff, by her counsel, duly excepts."
The question to be determined on this writ of error is,
whether the facts found by the court authorized the judgment
rendered. According to the settled course in actions of ejectment, the court did not inquire into the validity of the title
claimed by the defendants, as compared with that of the
plaintiff, but confined itself to the question of the validity of
the plaintiff's title to the land in dispute, on the assumption
that the plaintiff must stand or fall by his own title, and not
by reason of any defect in the title of the defendant. IRecognizing this as the governing rule in the case, we are called
upon to decide whether the title of the plaintiff, under the
patent granted to her ancestor in 1841, extended beyond the
limits of the actual survey, under the permanent waters of
the lake in front of the land described in the patent, and not
merely to the line of low-water mark, as held by the court
below It will be observed that the government surveys
made in 1834-5 upon which the patent was issued, not only
laid down a meander line next to the lake, but also described

OCTOBER TERAM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

said lines as running "along the margin of the lake," and the
plat of the survey, returned to the general and local land
offices, and referred to in the patent for identification of the
land granted, exhibited the granted tracts as actually bordermg,upon the lake, and the lake itself on said plat was marked
with the words ":Navigable lake," although the fact found
by the court is that the lake was not and is not a navigable
lake, but a non-navigable fresh-water lake or pond. The
patent itself does not contain all the particulars of the survey,
but the grant of the lands is recited to be according to the
official plat of the survey of said lands, returned to the General Land Office by the surveyor general, thereby adopting the
plat as a part of the instrument.
Such being the form of the title granted by the United
States to the plaintiff's ancestor, the question is as to the
effect of that title in reference to the lake and the bed of the
lake m front of the lands actually described in the grant.
This question must be decided by some rdile of law, and no
rule of law can be resorted to for the purpose except the local
law of the State of Illinois. If the boundary of the land
granted had been a fresh-water river, there can be no doubt
that the effect of the grant would have been such as is given
to such grants by the law of the state, extending either to the
margin or centre of the stream, according to the rules of that
law It has been the practice of the government from its
origin, in disposing of the public lands, to measure the price
to be paid for them by the quantity of upland granted, no
charge being made for the lands under the bed of the stream,
or other body of water. The meander lines run along or near
the margin of such waters are run for the purpose of ascertaining the exact quantity of the upland to be charged for,
and not for the purpose of limiting the title of the grantee to
such meander lines: It has frequently been held, both by the
Federal and state courts, that such meander lines are intended
for the purpose of bounding and abutting the lands granted
upon the waters whose margins are thus meandered, and that
the waters themselves constitute the real boundary Railroad
Co. v Sohurmwr, 7 Wall. 272, J~ferms v East Omaha Land

HARDIl

v. JORDAN.

Opiniou of the Court.

Co., 134 U. S. 178, .Aiddletom v Pritchard,3 Scam. 510,
Canal Trustees v Haven, 5 Gilm. 548, 558, Houck v Yates,
82 Illinois, 179, _Fuller v Dauphin, 124 Illinois, 542, Boor2nan v Sunnuchs, 42 Wisconsin, 233, 235, Pere 3farquette
Boom Co. v Adams, 44 Michigan, 403, Clute v Fisher,65
Michigan, 48, Ridgway v Ludlow, 58 Indiana, 248, -riaut v
C'awford, 18 Iowa, 549, Forsyth v Smale, 7 Bissell, 201,
Rev Stat. §§ 2395, 2396. Mr. Justice Clifford in the case first
cited says "Meander lines are run in surveying fractional
portions of the public lands bordering upon navigable rivers,
not as boundaries of the tract, but for the purpose of defining
the sinuosities of the banks of the stream, and as the means of
ascertaining the quantity of the land in the fraction subject to
sale, and which is to be paid for by the purchaser. In preparing the official plat from the field-notes the meander line is
represented as the border line of the stream, and shows to a
demonstration that the water course, and not the meander
line, as actually run on the land, is the boundary" It has
never been held that the lands under water, in front of such
grants, are reserved to the United States, or that they can be
afterwards granted out to other-persons, to the injury of the
original grantees. The attempt to make such grants is calculated to render titles uncertain, and to derogate from the value
of natural boundaries, like streams and bodies of waters.
With regard to grants of the government for lands bordering on tide water, it has been distinctly settled that they only
extend to high-water mark, and that the title to the shore and
lands under water in front of lands so granted enures to the
State within which they are situated, if a State has been
organized and established there. Such title to the shore and
lands under water is regarded as incidental to the sovereignty
of the State-a portion of the royalties belonging thereto
and held in trust for the public purposes of navigation and
fishery- and cannot be retained or granted out to individuals
by the United States. Pollardv Hagan, 3 How 212, Goodtitle v. Zibbe, 9 How 471, Tfeber v. Harbor Coammsswners,
18 Wall. 57. Such title being in the State, the lands are subject to state regulation and control, under the condition, how-

,OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ever, of not interfering with the regulations which may be
made by Congress with regard to public navigation and commerce. The State may even dispose of the usufruct of such
lands, as is- frequently done by leasing oyster beds in them,
and granting fisheries in particular localities; also, by the
reclamation of submerged flats, and the erection of wharves
and piers and other adventitious aids of commerce. Sometimes
large areas so reclaimed are occupied by cities, and are put
to other public or private uses, state control and ownership
therein being supreme, subject only to the paramount authority of Congress in making regulations of commerce, and in
subjecting the lands to the necessities and uses of commerce.
See l anchester v .MYssachusetts, 139 U S. 240, Smit v
Jffaryland, 18 How 71, HCready v lFirgintta, 94 U. S. 391,
fJ artin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367, -Denv .Tersey Co., 15 How
426.
This right of the States to regulate and control the shores
of tide waters, and the land under them, is the same as that
which is exercised by the Crown in England. In this country
the same rule has been extended to our great navigable lakes,
which are treated as inland-seas., and also, in some of the
States, to navigable rivers, as the Mississippi, the Missouri, the
Ohio, and, m Pennsylvania, to all the permanent rivers of
the State, but it depends on the law of each State to what
waters and to what extent this prerogative of the State over
the lands under water shall be exercised. In the case of
Bawrney v Heokuk, 94 U. S. 324, we held that it is for the
several States themselves to determine this question, and that
if they choose to resign to the riparian proprietor rights which
properly belong to them, in their sovereign capacity, it is not
for others to raise objections. That was a case which arose in
the State of Iowa with regard to land on the banks of the
Mississippi, in the city of Keokuk, and it appearing to be the
settled law of that State that the title of riparian proprietors
on the banks of the Mississippi extends only to ordinary highwater mark, and that the shore between high and low-water
mark, as well as the bed of the river, belongs to the State,
this court accepted the local law as that which was to govern

HAIDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

the case. The same view was taken in quite a recent case with
regard to titles on the Sacramento River under the law of
California. Packer v Bird,137 U. S. 661. On the east side
of the Mississippi, in the States of Illinois and Mississippi,
a different doctrine prevails, and in those States it is held
that the title of the riparian proprietor extends to the
middle of the current, in conformity to the rule of the common law, that the beds of all streams above the flow of the
tide, whether actually navigable or not, belongs to the proprietors of the adjoining lands. 3liddleton v Pritchard,
3 Scammon, 510, .Aorgan v. Reading, 3 Sm. & Marsh.
366, St Louts v Rutz, 138 U S.226. In the one case, that
of Iowa, the government grant was held to extend only to
high-water mark, in the other cases, of Illinois and Mississippi,
it was held to extend to the centre of the stream, being governed in both cases by the respective laws of the States, affecting grants of land bordering on the river. In the one case,
the State, by its general law, does not allow the grant to enure
to the individual farther than to the water's edge, reserving to
itself the ownership and control of the river bed, in the other
cases, the States allow the full common law effect of the grant
to enure to the grantee, reserving to themselves only those
rights of eminent domain over the waters and the land covered
thereby which are inseparable from sovereignty As was well
said by the Supreme Court of Illinois in Middleton v Pritchard,(qua supra), "Where the government has not reserved
any right or interest that might pass by the grant, nor done
any act showing an intention of reservation, such as platting
or surveying, we must construe its grant most favorably for
the grantee, and that it intended all that might pass by it.
What will pass then by a grant bounded by a stream of water 2
At common law, this depended upon the character of the
stream, or water. If it were a navigable stream, or water,
the riparian proprietor extended only to high-water mark. If
it were a stream not navigable, the rights of the riparian
At
owner extended to the centre thread of the current.
common law, only arms of the sea, and streams where the tide
ebbs and flows, are deemed navigable. Streams above tide

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinon of the Court.

water, although navigable in fact at all times, or in freshets,
were not deemed navigable in law To these, riparian proprietors bounded on or by the river, could acquire exclusive
ownership in the soil, water and fishery, to the middle thread
of the current, subject, however, to the public easement of
navigation. And this latter, Chancellor Kent says, bears a
perfect resemblance to public highways. The consequence of
this doctrine is, that all grants bounded upon a river not navigable by the common law, entitle the grantee to all islands
lying between the main land and the centre thread of the
current. And we feel bound so to construe grants by the
government, according to the principles of the common law,
unless the government has done some act to qualify or exclude
The United States have not repealed the
the right.
common law as to the interpretation of their own grants, nor
explained what interpretation or limitation should be given to,
or imposed upon the terms of the ordinary conveyances which
they use, except in a few special instances, but these are left
to the principles of law, and rules adopted by each local government, where the land may lie. We have adopted the
common law, and must, therefore, apply its principles to the
interpretation of their grant."
These views are referred to with strong approval by Chancellor Kent in a note to the third volume of his Commentaries,
p. 427, sixth edition, being the last edition prepared under his
own supervision.
We do not think it necessary to discuss this point further.
In our 'judgment the grants of the government for lands
bounded on streams and other waters, without any reservation
or restriction of terms, are to be construed as to their effect
according to the law of the State in which the lands lie.
The next .question for consideration, therefore, is what is
the law of Illinois with regard to such grants. If it were not
for the decision of the Supreme Court of that State in the
case of Trustees of Schools v Sc]iroll, 120 Illinois, 509, we
should not have the slightest hesitation on the subject. And
we cannot divest ourselves of the impression that the opinion
of the court in that case on the subject in hand is anomalous,

HARDIN v. JORDAIN.
Opinion of the Court.

and opposed to the entire course of previous decisions in the
State. It is our judgment that the law of Illinois, in this
regard, is the common law, and nothing else, and that the
opinion of the court in Trustees &c. v Schrol, is not in
accordance with the common law We say the opinion of the
court, for a reference to the report of the case will show
that the decision did not necessarily rest on the question
whether a grant of lands bounded by a lake or stream does or
does not extend to the centre thereof, for the court before
whom the case was tried without the intervention of a jury,
declared that there was no proof to show that the lots conveyed bordered on a lake or stream. The lands in question
in that case were part of a 16th section granted to. the State
as school lands, and the school trustees of the township
brought ejectment to recover them. They embraced certain
land covered with the water of a portion of Lake Meredosia
lake five or six miles long near the Illinois IRiver. The
-a
defendants claimed the premises by virtue of certain patents
from the State for lots which they alleged were bounded by
the lake. But the patents contained no such intimation,, and
there was no proof of the fact. The lots were conveyed by a
plat, and that did not show that they were situated on the
lake. Under these circumstances the judgment was necessarily given for the plaintiffs, who stood in the place of the
State. The court, however, without, as it seems to us, being
required to do so, undertook to lay down the law as to the
rights of grantees of lands bordering on lakes and ponds, as
distinguished from running streams, holding to the Massachusetts doctrine that such waters belong to the State and are
held for the use of the public, and do not pass to the riparian
proprietors. Nearly all of the authorities referred to in support of this position are decisions of the courts of Massachusetts and of other New England States which follow their
lead - the court not adverting to the fact that the law of
Massachusetts stands on a peculiar colonial ordinance adopted
more than two centuries ago, and referred to hereafter.
That the common law is the true and only law of Illinois
on the subject of land titles, and especially as to the rights of
voL. cxL-25

OCTOBER TERS, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

riparian owners, and the construction of deeds and grants of
land bounded by streams and permanent bodies of water
(except the great navigable lakes before referred to) is so
clearly shown by the statutes and by the whole course of the
decisions of the Supreme Court of that State, that it hardly
needs any argument to support the proposition. Illinois was
a portion of the Northwest Territory which Virginia always
claimed as a part of her domain until she ceded it to the
United States, and which received from that State many of
its original settlers, who regarded Virginia as their parent
State, and had a strong attachment for its institutions and
laws, and may be said to have carried those laws with them.
The very 4rst enactment of the legislature of Illinois after it
became a State was almost an exact copy of an ordinance
adopted by the Virginia Convention of Delegates in May,
1776, declaring what laws should be in force under the new
order of things. It was approved February 4th, 1819, and
was entitled "An act declaring what laws are in force in this
State." It enacted "that the common law of England, all
statutes or acts of the British Parliament made in aid of the
common law prior to the 4th year of the reign of King Sames
the I, excepting the 2d section of the 6th chapter of 43 Elizabeth, the 8th chapter of 13 Elizabeth and 9th chapter of 37
Henry VIII, and which are of a general nature and not local
to that kingdom, shall be the rule of decision, and shall be
considered as of full force, until repealed by legislative
authority"
This statute, as far as we are able to learn, has never been
repealed, and no supplementary or amendatory statute relating to the subject in hand has ever been passed by the legislature. Except with regard to Lake Michigan, which is a navigable lake and one of the internal seas of the country, it
cannot be pretended that the common law relating to grants
of land abutting on streams and permanent bodies of water,
and to the rights of riparian owners, are of such a local character peculiar to England as to be inapplicable to the State of
Illinois. At all events, the courts of that State from its origin
to the present tune have adhered to the rules of the common

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

law in reference to the matters referred to. So strictly has
this principle been followed that even in the case of lands bordering on the Mississippi River, acknowledged to be one of the
most important of navigable streams in the world, the rules
of the common law, which extend the title of the riparian
owner to the centre of the stream, have been sedulously observed, and we believe that there was never any departure
from this course of decision until the case of the Trustees
of Schools v Sckroll, which we regard as altogether exceptional, and insufficient to effect a change in the general rule.
If anything can be deemed settled in the jurisprudence of a
State, we think that until the decision of that case it was absolutely settled in Illinois that the rule of the common law was
the- law of that State in regard to the rights of riparian owners. See .Middleton v Prdtclard,3 Scam. 510; Canal Trustees v Haven, 11 Illinois, 554, Beckman v Elreamer, 43 Illinois, 447, Clacago v _Laftin, 49 Illinois, 172, Chwcago &
Pao. Railroad v Sten, '75 Illinois, 41, Houck v. Yates, 82
Illinois, 179, Washington Ice Co. v Shortall, 101 Illinois, 46,
Fuller v Dauwphin, 124 Illinois, 542. The last of the above
cited cases was decided in May, 1888, and reaffirmed in all
things the case of .lfiddleton v Prthard. The land in question was an island of five acres in what is called Plum River
Slough, a large running slough or arm of the Mississippi River,
marked on the original plat and survey as "INavigable T'luui
River Slough." The defendant claimed title under a patent
from the United States, dated in 1845, for a fractional quarter
section of land bounded on the west by a meander line according to the survey, but by the slough itself according to the
plat of the survey referred to in the patent. The court held
that the fractional section granted was bounded by the slough,
and that the title extended to its centre, and included the
island in question. The case of Iashzngton Ice Co. v Shortall
was a contest about the right to cut ice on the Calumet River
within the limits of the plaintiff's land. The ice company
claimed such a right because, as they contended, the plaintiff
had no private ownership in the water of which the ice was
formed. But the court held that as the plaintiff was the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

owner of the bed of the river, which flowed through his
premises, he was the owner of the ice which became attached
thereto. Mr. Justice Sheldon, delivering the opinion of the
court, after stating the common law rule as to the title of a
riparian owner on a stream above tide water, said "This rule
of the common law has been adopted in this State, and is here
the settled doctrine." He then discussed the question as to
the right to the ice, which was decided to be in the owner
of the land.
The disposal of the present case, therefore, seems to us to
require, further, only an answer to the single question, "What
is the common law in regard to the title of fresh-water lakes
and ponds 9" And on this subject we think there can be but
very little difference of opinion.
Of course, as already stated, there is no question where the
land abuts and bounds upon a fresh-water stream or river.
In such cases the law is perfectly plain. Sir Matthew Hale
says "Fresh rivers, of what kind soever, do of common right
belong to the owners of the soil adjacent, so that the owners
of the one side have, of common right, the propriety of the
soil, and consequently of the right of fishing, usque ad filum
agum, and the owners of the other side the right of soil or
ownership and fishing unto the filum aquc on their side.
And, if a man be owner of the land of both sides, in common
presumption he is owner of the whole river, and hath the
right of fishing according to the extent of his land in length."
De Jure Mans, P I, c. 1. And whilst Hale speaks of rivers
and streams, he probably means to include, certainly does not
mean to exclude, all fresh waters, including lakes and ponds as
well. But in England proper there are so few lakes and
ponds of large size, and so many fresh-water streams and
rivers, that in speaking of interior or fresh waters it was natural to refer to the latter without mentioning the former.
Lord Coke, however, when enumerating the different things
that are comprehended under the term "land" as a subject of
ownership, mentions land covered with water. His words
are "Also the waters that yield fish for food and sustenance
of man are not by that name demandable in a prmcqe, but

HARDLN v. JO1DAN.
Opinion of the Court.

the land whereupon the waterfloweth or standeth is demandable, as for example, tgm-nt- aeras terra alua coopertastwenty acres of land covered with water." Co. Litt. 4 a.
And after showing that the right of fishery may be granted
by the owner distinct from the right of soil, he adds "If a
man grant aquam suar, the soil shall not pass, but the fishery
within the water passeth therewith." But where a collection
of water has acquired a specific name he says that the land
may be included under that name, as "S8tagnum, a poole, doth
consist of water and land, and therefore by the name of stagnurn or poole, the water and land shall pass also." So of a
gorse or gulf, for which aprwc pe will lie with the esplees in
taking of fish therefrom. Co. Litt. 5 b. This hows that still
water as well as rivers and streams was the subject of private
ownership by the old English law
It may also be observed that the whole doctrine of common
and several fisheries is corroborative of this view The cases
are innumerable in which actions of trespass have been sustained for fishing in a several fishery, (which is the exclusive
right to fish in one's own waters, or is derived therefrom by
grant), or in which the action of trespass has been defended
by the plea of common of fishery (which is the right to fish
in the waters of another). The right of public fishery is
never mentioned except in connection with tide waters where
the title to the land is in the Crown. It is never said that this
right exists in lakes or ponds, or in any other fresh waters.
An expression used by Sir Francis Moore, in his reading on
the Statute of Uses, has been supposed to indicate that commion ponds are royalties of the Crown.

But attention to the

context will show that this inference is without foundation.
He is speaking of different things that would be proper objects of charity under the several heads enumerated in the act,
and under that of "_ports and harbors," after showing the benefits of ports and harbors, and that an imposition of duties for
their support would be a charitable use, he adds, " Common
ponds or watering places are within the equity of these words."
That is, a donation made for establishing and maintaining a
pond or watering place would be a good charity, and within

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

the equity of gifts for ports and havens. This certainly is
very far from intimating that ponds and watering places
belong to the Crown. It only shows that, like churches,
schools and other good institutions, they are calculated to subserve the public benefit.
In Scotland, where there are many lakes, often of large extent, there has never been any doubt on the subject. It is true
their system of laws is founded on the civil law, by which
lakes and ponds are regularly of private ownership. Lord
Selborne, in .Eackenzze v Bankes, 3 App. Cas. 1321, 1338,
says "It is to these facts that the law of Scotland with respect to the rights of riparian proprietors in inland-lakes has
now to be applied. Under titles such as those by which both
the competitors in the present case hold (and when nothing
turns upon any evidence of exclusive possession) the entire
lake, if surrounded by the land of a single proprietor, belongs
to that proprietor as a 'pertinent' of his land. If there are
more riparian proprietors than one, it belongs 'ratably' to
them all. So far as relates to the solum or fundus of the
lake, it is considered to belong in severalty to the several riparan proprietors, if more than one, the space enclosed by
lines drawn from the boundaries of each property usque ad
mediumfilum aquwe being deemed appurtenant to the land of
that proprietor, exactly as in the common case of a river."
But as to the rights of boating, fishing and fowling, Lord Selborne added. "These are to be enjoyed over the whole water
space by all the riparian proprietors in common, subject (if
need be) to judicial regulation." See also, to the same purport, Burge, Col. & For. Law, vol. 3, p. 425, Justinian's
Digest, lib. 8, tit. 3, f. 23, § 1. And centuries before Justinian, Cicero spoke of the many lands, houses, lakes, ponds,
places and possessions confiscated by Sylla and conferred
upon his own favorites. Agra. Law, Orat. 3, c. 2 7.
As many features of the common law with regard to the
rights of riparian owners were borrowed directly from the
civil law, Hale De Jure Mans, P I, c. 6, page 28, it would not
be strange if the rule relating to lakes and ponds came from
the same source. It was recommended by the same reasons

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

that applied to fresh-water rivers and streams. When land is
bounded by a lake or pond, the water, equally as in the case
of a river, is appurtenant to it, it constitutes one of the advantages of its situation, and a material part of its value, and
enters largely into the consideration for acquiring it. Hence
the presumption is that a grant of land thus bounded is intended to include the contiguous land covered by water.
Besides, a lake or pond, like a river, is a concrete object, a
unit, and when named as a boundary, the natural inference is
that the middle line of it is intended, that is, the line equidistant from the land on either side. If the margin is named as
the boundary the case is different, the land under the water
being then expressly excluded. Of course, these observations
do not apply to our great navigable lakes, which are really
inland seas, and to which all those reasons apply which apply
to the sea itself.
But we are not without express authority, m addition to
that of Lord Coke, as to the rule of the common law As
before observed, the small number in England of the bodies
of water of the kind now under consideration, would lead us
to expect but few decisions on the subject compared with
those relating to rivers and streams. But the precise question
has been brought before the courts in recent times, and has
been decided as from the reason of the thing we should anticipate it would be. Bmstow v Cormwan, 3 App. Cas. 641, is
directly in point, and received the consideration of the best
legal minds of England. It related to riparian rights in Lough
Neagh, a lake in the North of Ireland, about fifteen miles in
length (north and south) and about ten miles in breadth, situated some fifteen miles west of Belfast, and having the town
of Antrim near its northeastern extremity The plaintiff sued
the defendants in trespass for fishing in the lake, and deraigned
title from the Crown by a grant made in the time of Charles
II of all the fishings in Lough Neagh, and the question was
whether the Crown had the right to make such a grant. The
decision was unanimous that it had not. Lord Cairns, then
Lord Chancellor, said "The Crown has no dejure right to soil
or fisheries of a lough like Lough Neagh. Lough Neagh is,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as your Lordships are aware, the longest inland lake in the
United Kingdom, and one of the largest in Europe. It is from
fourteen to sixteen miles long, and from six to eight miles
broad. It contains nearly 100,000 acres, but though it is so
large, I am not aware of any rule which would, prma facze,
connect the soil or fishings with the Crown, or disconnect
them from the private ownership either of riparian proprietors
or other persons." Lord Hatherley said. "This is an inland
lake, and, therefore, it is not a portion of land belonging to
the Crown by reason of its being on the shore of the sea, or a,
navigable strait or river." Lord Blackburn added. "The first
question that I shall discuss is whether it is conclusively shown
that Charles IIhad in 1660 and 1661, title to the property he
convey I think he had not. The proppurported to
erty in the soil of the sea and of estuaries, and of rivers in
which the tide ebbs and flows is,pmmafaeze, of common right,
vested in the Crown, but the property of dry land is not of
common right in the Crown. Itis clearly and uniformly laid
down in our books, that where the soil is covered by the water
forniing a river in which the tide does not flow, the soil does
of common right belong to the owners of the adjoining land,
and there is no case or book of authority to show that the
Crown is of common right entitled to land covered by water,
where the water is not running water forming a river, but
still water forming a lake." Then, after taking notice of a
hesitating remark on the subject made by Justice Wightman
m lXarsaal v Ulleswater iav. Co., 3 Best & Smith, 732, 742,
and of the apparent inconvenience of adjoining owners of
small holdings on the borders of a lake going out to the centre,
he adds "It is, however, necessary to decide whether the
Crown has of common right apr?,afaczetitle to the soil of
a lake, I think it has not. I know of no authority for saying
it has, and I see no reason why it should have it."
Of course this decision has not the controlling authority
which it would have had if it had been made before our revolution. But it is the judicial decision of the highest authority
in the B3itish empire, and is entitled to the greatest consideration on a question like this, of pure common law

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

In this country there has been a diversity of opinion on the
subject. The colonial ordinance of Massachusetts, adopted in
1641, provided that great ponds containing more than ten
acres of land, and lying in common, though within the bounds
of a town, should be free for fishing and fowling. As amended
by the ordinance of 1647, it prohibited the towns from granting away great ponds, but affirmed their power to regulate
the fisheries therein as well as in tide waters, and affirmed
the power of the legislature to dispose of great ponds, tidal
bays, coves and rivers, or of the common rights of fishing and
fowling in them. Gould on Waters, § 84, Paine v Moods,
108 Mass. 160, 169, Comnonwealth v Vincent, 108 Mlass.
441, 445. These ordinances seem to have been the foundation
of a local common law in Massachusetts (including Maine)
which has led to a course of decisions with regard to the title
of lakes and ponds at variance with the general common law,
and which have been followed in New Hampshire and some
other States. It is there held that the land under water in
such lakes and ponds belongs to the State, and not to the riparan owners, and that when land is conveyed bounding upon a
natural lake or pond, the grant extends only to the water's
edge. The leading cases to this effect are collected in Angell
on Water Courses, secs. 41, 41a, etc. For later decisions see
Encyclopoedia of Law, vol. 12, tit. "Lakes and Ponds."
In other States the rule of the common law has prevailed
as enunciated in Bristow v Cornnwan, as in New York, New
Jersey, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, etc. See .Ledyard v. Ten
Eyck, 36 Barb. 102; Smith v City of Rochester, 92 N. Y
463, Cobb v .Davenport,3 Vroom (32 N. J Law) 369, S. C.
4 Vroom, 223, Lembeck v XZye, 47 Ohio St. 336, Clute v
Pisher, 65 Michigan, 48, Rlidgway v Ludlow, 58 Indiana,
248.
In ledyard v Ten. Eyck a large tract of land was granted
to A, the bounds of which included the south end of Gazenovia Lake, a body of water five miles long and three-fourths of
a mile wide. A granted to B (under whom the defendant
claimed) a piece of the land bordering on the lake. It was
held that by the common law, which was in force in New York,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

both grants conveyed the title of the land under the water.
"The premises of the defendant," said the court, "are not
.bounded on the west by the bank of the lake, but are bounded
by the lake itself.
The deed would have the usual
legal effect, and as an appurtenance would carry along the land
under water to the centre." It was assumed that the same
law applied to inland unnavigable lakes as to rivers. As to
the Great Lakes, (Lake Champlain for example,) and the navigable rivers of the State, the Hudson and Mohawk, the courts
of New York hold that the title of their beds is in the
State and not in the riparian owners. The People v Canal
A)2prasers, 33 N. Y 461, Snmth v City of Rochester, 92
N. Y 463. The latter case related to Hemlock Lake, which
is seven miles long and half a mile wide, and navigated by
scows, steamboats and other craft. The legislature of the
State authorized the city of Rochester to take the water of
the lake for the use of the inhabitants of the city, subject to
the payment of damages for injury to private property The
plaiptiff owning mills which were driven by the waters of the
lake applied for an injunction to restrain the city authorities
from taking the water; and the defence was that the lake
was the property of the State, and that the State had a right
to dispose of the water. The opinion of the Court of Appeals
by Chief Justice Ruger exhibits a careful and able examination of the law on the subject. After adverting to the constitution of the State, framed in 1777, by which the common law,
and the statutes of England and the colony were continued
as the law of the State, subject to such alterations as the legislature might make, and also adverting to the peculiar action
of the legislature in assuming the ownership of the lands under
the waters of the Mohawk and the Hudson above tide water,
he takes up the case upon the general principles of the common law, and comes to the conclusion that Hemlock Lake is
not such a body of water as under any rule entitles the State
to claim the ownership of the bed, and that its only right was
that of. eminent domain by virtue of its sovereignty
The case of Cobb v Davenport, in New Jersey, was an
action of trespass brought to assert the plaintiff's exclusive

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

right of fishing in Green Pond, a lake three miles in length
by one mile in breadth. The plaintiff had a grant, from the
board of proprietors of East Jersey, of a tract of land which
included the lake. The defendant contended that the lake
belonged to the State and was not subject to private ownership. The decision was in favor of the plaintiff. M r. Justice
Depue delivered the opinion of the court, and discussed the
case on common law principles. "In this State," said the
learned judge, "1there is nothing in topography or location
that requires a departure from the rules of the common law
Unlike some of our sister States, we have no large inland
lakes, which are, in fact, inland seas, upon which an extensive
commerce is carried on, or which are the boundaries with a
foreign nation.
Our system of land titles, and the
decisions of our courts, have been in conformity with the
common law on this subject, and whatever departure has been
therefrom, has not been to enlarge the public domain at the
expense of private ownership." The rules of the common law
propounded for the decision of the case were thus stated.
"By the common law, all waters are divided into public
waters and private waters. In the former the proprietorship
is in the sovereign, in the latter, in the individual proprietor.
The title of the sovereign being in trust for the benefit of the
public-the use, which includes the right of fishing and of
navigation, is common. The title of the individual being
personal in him, is exclusive -subject only to a servitude to
the public for purposes of navigation, if the waters are navigable in fact.
And all the cases in which waters
above the ebb and flow of the tide, such as great inland lakes
and the larger rivers of the country, are held to be public in
any other sense than as being subjected to a servitude to the
public for purposes of navigation, are confessedly a departure
from the common law"
In corroboration of the conclusion arrived at from the
general principles of the common law, Justice Depue also
referred to a charter granted by the legislature of New Jersey
to the Morris Canal Company in 1824, by which the company
was authorized to use the waters of Lake lHopatcong and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Green Pond for the purposes of the canal, subject to this provision, namely, "all loss and damages to the owners of said
ponds, or the lands flowed or otherwise used in obtaining
water for the same, being paid for, agreeably to the previous
provisions of this act." This was regarded as a legislative
recognition of the private ownership of these bodies of water.
That ownership depended, however, not on the statute, but on
the principles of the common law
But we forbear to quote further the reasonings of the cases.
There are many more to the same effect, all going to demonstrate what the rule of the common law is with regard to the
ownership of the beds of inland lakes, not of such size or
importance as to be classed with the great navigable lakes and
rivers of the country We need not depend upon the English
case of Brwztow v Cormtean alone, great as its authority necessarily is, but are surrounded by a cloud of witnesses in our
own country whose testimony is in harmony with that decision. We will only refer to a. single other case, decided in
Illinois itself in 1867, Beckman v freamer, 43 Illinois, -47,
which, with the cases as to riparian rights on rivers and
streams, ought to be conclusive as to the common law in that
State. The case arose with regard to the right of fishing in
a small lake in Kankakee County, with an outlet to Kankakee
River, seven miles distant. From the state map we infer
that the lake was two or three miles in length. It abounded
in choice fish and was claimed by the plaintiffs as their private
property, they owning the surrounding lands. A party came
with teams, boats and a seine, which last they dragged in
the lake against the will and protest of the owners of the
land. The latter brought an action of trespass and recovered
damages. Mr. Justice Breese, in announcing the decision of
the court, laid down the following principle of law "By the
common law, a right to take fish belongs so essentially to the
right of soil in streams or bodies of water, where the tide
does not ebb and flow, that if the riparian proprietor owns
upon both sides of such stream, no one but himself may come
upon the limits of his land and take fish there, and the same
rule applies so far as his land extends, to wit, to the thread of
the stream, where he owns upon one side only"

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

The reason for departing from the common law in cases of
this kind is well and clearly stated by Judge Gresham in the
case of State of Indiana v 3ilk, 11 Bissell, 197, 11 Fed.
Rep. 389. He there says "Non-navigable streams are usually
narrow, and the lines of riparian owners can be extended into
them at right angles, without interference or confusion, and
without serious injustice to any one. It was therefore natural,
when such streams were called for as boundaries, to hold that
the real line between opposite shore owners was the thread of
the current. The rights of the riparian proprietors in the bed
of the stream, and in the stream itself, were thus clearly
defined. But when this rule is attempted to be applied to
lakes and ponds practical difficulties are encountered. They
have no current, and, being more or less circular, it would
hardly be possible to run the boundary lines beyond the
water's edge, so as to define the rights of shore owners in the
beds. Beaver Lake is seven and a half miles east and west,
and less than five miles north and south. Extending the side
and end lines into the lake, there being no current, when
would they meet 2 This rule is applicable, if at all, whether
there be one or more riparian proprietors. I do not think the
mere proprietorship of the surrounding lands will, in all cases,
give ownership to the beds of natural non-navigable lakes and
ponds, regardless of their size. It would be unfair and unjust
to allow a party to claim and hold against his grantor the bed
of a lake containing thousands of acres, solely on the ground
that he had bought and paid for the small surrounding fractional tracts-the mere rim."
We do not think that this argument ab snconvenzenti is
sufficient to justify an abandonment of the rules of the common law, which, as we have shown, have been adopted in
Illinois as the law of the land. It is too much like judicial
legislation. It is as much as to say "We think the common
law might be improved, and we will, therefore, improve it."
As to the supposed difficulty or inconvenience in applying the
law, it is no greater than that which occurs on any bay or
incurved shore, even of a large river, in adjusting the outgoing
boundary lines between adjoining proprietors over the sub-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

merged bottoms of flats lying in front of their riparian lands.
Just and equitable rules have been adopted for settling the
mutual rights of parties in such cases. Where a lake is very
long in comparison with its width, the method applied to
rivers and streams would probably be most suitable for adjusting riparian rights in the lake bottom along its sides, and the
use of converging lines would only be required at its two ends.
But whatever mode of determining the outgoing lines, as
between adjoining owners, should be adopted in special cases,
(which may be left for determination when they arise,) there
can be no difficulty in the present case as between the plaintiff
and the defendant. The latter is not an adjoining owner.
The controversy here is between a riparian owner and a party
claiming the land under water in front of him, and as between
them, we think there is no question as to the riparian owner's
right.
The Supreme Court of Michigan in a recent case (Clute v
Fisher,65 Michigan, 48, since followed by Stoner v Ptce, 121
Indiana, 51) held that the riparian owner of a fractional lot
bounded by a non-navigable lake only takes so much of the lake
bottom as is required to fill out the section or quarter section
of which he owns the fraction, in other words, that his common law right is limited by the sectional lines of the survey
It was conceded, however, that if the lake were so large that
the lines of the granted sections would not embrace the whole
lake bottom, then the riparian ownership would be extended to
the centre so as to include the whole bottom. In this case the
sectional lines included all that was in dispute, the question
being raised upon the cutting of the ice on the surface. In
the other case (Stoner v Rwe,) the rule so adopted gave to
the riparian owner the whole of the lake bottom as against
a subsequent grantee of the government, a result identical
with that which would have been produced by the unmodified common law rule. These decisions, however, are interesting because they are founded on the principle that the
government surveys form a system or network of lands in
block, whose sectional and subsectional lines, whether actually
surveyed on the land, or projected by the imagination through

HARDIN v. JORDA2{.
Opinion of the Court.

standing bodies of water, constitute lines of limitation which

arrest and restrict any extension of a grant by implication
beyond them. This is substantially the principle by which
the Roman agrz lirtat were governed. These consisted,
generally, of districts or territories acquired by conquest, and
assigned and set apart for the benefit of veteran soldiers, when
retired from active service in the army The method of surveying such a territory was to draw lines towards the four

quarters of the heavens, parallel and crosswise, in order to
effect a uniform division of the lots, and to fix immutable

boundaries between them.

These boundaries, called limites,

were marked by a slip of land left for the purpose untouched

by cultivation, as balks or highways. The squares of land
contained either thirty-three or a hundred and thirty-three
acres, that is, they were either ten or twenty adtus square.

Lands thus surveyed and appropriated were called limited
lands-agr, limitati- and when they bordered on streams
or other waters they were not entitled, as other riparian lands
were, to any accretion or alluvion, or to islands in the stream,
but were strictly confined to the lines by which they were
actually or theoretically limited. See Dig. Lib. 41, tit. 1, frs.
7, 16, Lib. 43, tit. 12, fr. 1 §§ 6, 7, Gronovius, in note to Grotius, De Jure Bel. ac Pac., Lib. 2, cap. 3, sec. 16, Niebuhr's
Hist. of Rome, vol. 2, App. I.
This method of disposing of the subject might, be convenient
and attended with some advantages if it were sanctioned by
the law, but we do not see any greater reason for adopting
this departure from the common law than that followed in the
case of State of Indiana v .2llk, before referred to.
As to the narrow tongue of land which, according to the
finding of facts, projects into the lake from the north side, we
do not think that it can have any effect upon the decision of
this case. It does not appear to have extended far enough
southerly, at least during high water, to be opposed to the
property of the plaintiff. Besides, the plat of the lake and
the land surrounding it, referred to in the patent granted to
Holbrook, exhibits the various fractional sections surrounding
the lake as immediately bordering upon it, and this, as shown

OCTOBER TERMAr, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

by the authorities already cited, constitutes the lake itself the
real boundary of the land, without regard to the meander line.
There should bo some extraordinary proof of mistake on the
part of the surveyor in order to iterfere with the passing of
the land as riparian land. In the case of Forsyth v Smale,
7 Bissell, 201, decided in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Indiana in 1876, the same circumstance of a gore or tongue of land running into the water
beyond the meander line was shown by the proofs to exist.
The plaintiffs claimed by patent from the United States certain fractional lots of land binding on Lake George, a small
lake in Indiana, about two miles in length and three-fourths
of a mile in width, connected with the lake now in question.
The government plat referred to in the patents showed no
such projection, but showed the fractional lots binding on
the lake. The defendant claimed the gore or tongue of land
under a subsequent patent, and contended that it was not
embraced in the plaintiffs' title. But Judge Drummond held
that the case was governed by the principles announced by
this court in Railroad Company v Schurmer, and that as
the plat referred to in the patent showed that the land conveyed was bounded by the lake, the patent should be so
construed, and gave judgment for the plaintiff.
A question is made with regard to the effect of the proceedings which took place before the register and receiver of the
local land office, and, by appeal, before the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior, in
relation to the right of the government to survey and grant
the lands under Wolf Lake in 1874. Both Hardin and DeWitt
were notified of said proceedings and appeared and contested
the same, but the decision was against them and in favor of
the government. It is contended that by this decision the
question became res judicata, and that Hardin and DeWitt
and those claiming under them are bound thereby It is very
true that the decisions of the land department on matters of
fact within its jurisdiction, made in due course of administration, cannot be called in question collaterally But, as was
declared in the recent case of Davis v TFeibbold, 139 U. S.

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Opinion of the Court.

507, decided at the present term of this court, "if the lands

patented were not at the time public property, hawng been
_revwusly diposed of, or no provision had been made for their
sale or other disposition, or they had been reserved from sale,
the department had no jurisdiction to transfer the lands, and
their attempted conveyance by patent is inoperative and void."
So that, if the lands had been "previously disposed of," the
department has no jurisdiction over ther, and the question
whether they have, or have not, been previously disposed of
is a judicial question, and not determinable by the executive
department, except for the purpose of governing its own conduct in fhe administration of its functions. The same principle is involved in -Moore v .Robbzns, 96 U S. 530, 533, 534,
where it is said by Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for the court
"With the title passes away all authority or control of the
executive department over the land, and over the title which
it has conveyed. It would be as reasonable to hold that any
private owner of land who has conveyed it to another can, of
his own volition, recall, cancel or annul the instrument which
he has made and delivered. If fraud, mistake, error or wrong
has been done, the courts of justice present the only remedy
These courts are as open to the United States to sue for the
cancellation of the deed or reconveyance of the land as to
individuals, and if the government is the party injured, this
is the proper course." Again, referring to the power of the
Secretary of the Interior after patent, it is said "He is absolutely without authority If this were not so, the titles derived
from the United States, instead of being the safe and assured
evidences of ownership which they are generally supposed to
be, would be always subject to the fluctuating, and in many
cases unreliable, action of the land office. No man could
buy of the grantee with safety, because he could only convey
subject to the right of the officers of the government to annul
his title."
On the whole, our conclusion is, that the court below ought
to have given judgment for the plaintiff, as against the defendant, to the centre of Wolf Lake, instead of to low-water mark,
in front of the southeast fractional quarter of section 19, and
VOL. cxL-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, Brown, JJ.

in front of the northeast fractional quarter of section 30; and
to the middle of the bay or projection of said lake in front of
the east part of the southeast fractional quarter of said section
30. If there should arise any question between the plaintiff
and other riparian owners of lands situated on the margin of
the lake, as to the convergence of the side lines of the plaintiff's land in the lake, it can be disposed of by the parties
themselves by a resort to equity or to such other form of
procedure as may be proper.
The judgment must be
Reversed, and the cause remanded wzth mnstructzons to enter
judgmentfor the plantzf -inconformity with this optnton.
Mn. JUSTiE. BREWER, with whom concurred MnR. JUSTICE
Gr.AY and :MR. JusTIcE BROWN, dissenting.
MR. JUSTIoE GR-AY, Mi. JUSTm E BnowN and myself are
unable to concur in the foregoing conclusions. Beyond all
dispute the settled law of this court, established by repeated
decisions, is that the question how far the title of a riparian
owner extends is one of local law For a determination of
that question the statutes of the State and the decisions of its
highest court furnished the best and the final authority In
the case of St. Zous v Biutz, decided at the present term,
138 U. S. 226, 2412, it was said by Mr. Justice Blatchford,
speaking for the court "The question as to whether the fee
of the plaintiff, as a riparian proprietor on the Mississippi
River, extends to the middle thread of the stream, or only to
the water's edge, is a question in regard to a rule of property,
which is governed by the local law of Illinois. Barney v
Keokuk, 94 U S. 324, 338, St. Zouss v Myers, 113 U. S. 566;
Packer v Brd, 137 U S. 661. In .Barney v JYeokuk, it is
said that if the States 'choose to resign to the riparian proprietor rights which properly belong to them in their sovereign
capacity, it is not for others to raise objections.'" The cases
referred to in this quotation affirm the same doctrine.
If we turn to the decisions of the Supreme Court of Illinois,
we find one rule laid down for running water and another for

HARDIN v. JORDAN.
Dissenting Opinion Brewer, Gray, Brown, JJ.

lakes and 'ponds. In the former case the riparian owner owns
to the thread of the current, in the latter to the water line.
No distinction is made on account of the size of either stream
or pond. Without noticing the authorities in reference to
rivers or other running water, it is enoagh to refer to the
decisions in reference to lakes and ponds. In the case of Seaman v Smith, decided in 1860, 24 Illinois, 521, 525, it was
held that a riparian owner on a large lake, Lake Michigan,
took title only to the water line. The reason of that decision
was thus expressed in the opinion of the court. "These great
bodies of water, having no currents, like rivers and other running streams, cannot present the same reasons why the boundary should be extended beyond the water's edge, where it is
ordinarily found, that apply to running bodies of water.
Where such streams are called for as a boundary, the thread
of the current is held to be the line from each side. Such a
rule could not, for the want of a current, be adopted in this
case. It would not be sanctioned either by analogy to the
rule or by reason. And if the outer edge of the water be
passed, owing to the approximation of these bodies to a circular shape, it would be found exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to ascertain where the boundary should be fixed, or the
shape it should assume." It will be perceived that the same
reasoning applies whether the lake be a large or a small one.
There is no decision or intimation by the Supreme Court of
that State questioning the rule thus laid down.
Again, in 1886, in a later case, Trustees of Schools v Schtiroll,
120 Illinois, 509, the question arose as to a small lake, no larger
than the one in controversy, and the same rule was applied
there as in the case of Lake Michigan, and it was held that
the title of the riparian owner stopped at the water line, and
the case of Searna v Smith, suipra, was cited as furnishing the
authority and reasoning for the rule. Nor was this a mere
casual or incidental remark in the course of an opinion. The
opinion is some seven pages in length, and over four pages are
devoted to a discussion and decision of this question. It was
the principal and paramount question, fully reasoned out and
obviously carefully considered. We quote as follows. "It is

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Dissenting Opinion

Brewer, Gray, Brown, JJ.

equally well settled that grants of land bounded on streams or
rivers above tide water carry the exclusive right and title of
the grantee to.the centre of the stream, usque ad filum afue,
subject to the easement of navigation in streams navigable in
fact, unless the terms of the grant clearly denote the intention
to stop at the edge or margin of the stream. 3 Kent's Com.
427, 2 Hlilliard on Real Prop. 92, Angell on Water-courses,
see. 5, Jones v Soulard, 24 How 41, State of Indiana v
AMilk, 11 Fed. Rep. 389, Canal Apprasers v The People, 17
Wend. 571, 596, Child v Starr, 4 Hill, 369, Seaman v Smith,
24 Ill. 521, Rockwell v. Baldwn, 53 Ill. 19, Braon v Bressler, 64 Ill. 488, Washington Ice Co. v Shortall, 101 Ill. 46.
But an entirely different rule applies when land is conveyed
bounded along or upon a natural lake or pond. In such case
the grant extends only to the water's edge. Angell on Watercourses, secs. 41, 42,. 3 Kent's Com. 439, note a, citing Bradley v R ice, 13 Maine, 198, 201, and Waterman v Johnson, 13
Pick. 261. See also Warren v. Chambers, 25 Arkansas, 120,
State of Indiana v. .Milk, U S. Cir. Ot. Dist. ihd., Gresham,
J., 11 Fed. Rep. 389, citing Wheeler v Sp&nola, 54 N. Y 377,
.Mansurv Blake, 62 'Maine, 38, State v Gilmanton, 9 N. H.
461, Paine v Woods, 108 Mass. 160, Fletcher v Pheps, 28
Vermont, 257, Austin v Rutland Railroad Co., 45 Vermont,
215, Boorman v Sunnuchs, 42 Wisconsin, 233, .Delaplainev
Chicago & Iorthwestern Ry. Co., 42 Wisconsin, 214, and
Seaman v Smith, 24 Illinois, 521. See also N1relson v Butterfield, 21 Maine, 229, Vest Roxbury v Stoddard, 7 Allen, 158,
Canal Co. v. The People, 5 Wend. 423, Jakeway v Barrett,
38 Vermont, 316, Prmm v TFalker, 38 Missouri, 94, 99,
Wood v Kelley, 30 Maine, 47." And again. "Indeed, the
controlling distinction between a stream and a pond or lake is,
that in the one case the water has a natural motion -a current - while in the other the water is, in its natural state,
substantially at rest. And this is so, independent of the size
of the one or the other. The flowing rivulet of but a few
inches in width is a stream as certainly as the Mississippi.
And when lands are granted by the proprietor of both land
and stream, bounding such grant upon the stream, the grantee.

HARD IN v. JORDAN.
Dissenting Opinion. Brewer, Gray, Brown, JJ.

acquires right and title to the thread or middle of the stream.
This right is grounded upon the presumption that the grantor,
by making the stream the boundary, intended his grantee to
take to the middle of the stream, and this presumption will
prevail until a contrary intent is made to appear. Rockwell
v Baldwn, 53 Illinois, 19. The right spoken of does not
rest upon the principle that when a grant is bounded on a
stream the bed of the stream to the thread or middle passes as
incident or appurtenant to the bordering ]and, for the bed of
the stream is land, though covered with water, and land cannot pass as appurtenant to land. As is said in Child v Starr,
4 Hill, 369 'A conveyance of one acre of land can never be
made, by any legal construction, to carry another acre by way
of incident or appurtenance to the first.' The riparian proprietor claiming to the thread or middle of the stream must
show the bordering water to be a stream, and that his grant,
in terms or legal effect, is bounded upon or along such stream
that the stream is made the boundary"
These quotations show that there was no mere inadvertent
or casual remark, but that it was the distinct and well considered as it was also the unanimous decision of the highest court
of the State. We do not think it sufficient to overthrow the
force of this decision to say that the common law of England
was different, a proposition which, in passing, we may say we
doubt, nor that there was another question in the case also
referred to in the opinion, which fully justified the decision,
and that therefore the discussion and decision of this question
were unnecessary, for that other question was put after this in
the opinion, and was evidently intentionally made subordinate
to this.
Believing that the law of Illinois has been determined by
its Supreme Court, we think that determination is conclusive
on this court. As strengthening the views we have expressed,
may also be noticed the opinions of the Circuit and District
Judges, in this very case, on separate trials, (see 16 Fed. Rep.
823,) both announced before the decision in 120 Illinois, and
agreeing that under the laws of Illinois the title of the riparian
owner stopped with the water. The long judicial experience

OCTOBER TERIf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

of those judges and their familiarity with the laws of Illinois
give to these opinions great weight. We, therefore, dissent
from the conclusions of the court.

MITC)HELL v. SMALE.
ERRORl TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 167. Argued January 23, 26, 27, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Plaintiff, a citizen of Illinois, sued in ejectment to recover possession of
lands in that State claimed to have been granted to plaintiff's ancestor
by a patent of the United States, making the tenaut-a citizen of that
State, defendant. The owner, under whom the tenant claimed, a citizen
of New York, appeared and, on his motion, was made party defendant.
He then set up title under another patent from the United States, and
moved for a removal of the cause, first, upon the ground of diverse citizenship, which was abandoned, and then, secondly, that there was a controversy involving the authority of the land department to grant a
patent. Held, that the case was removable for the second cause.
Hardin v. Jordan,ante, 371, affirmed to the point that in Illinois, under a grant
of lands bounded on a lake or pond which is not tide water and is not
navigable, the grantee takes to the centre of the lake or pond ratably
with other riparian proprietors, if there be such; and that the projection
of a strip or tongue of land beyond the meandering line of the survey is
entirely consistent with the water of the pond or lake being the natural
boundary of the granted land, which would include the projection, if
necessary to reach that boundary.
EJEOTMIINT.

.Judgment for the defendant.

out this writ of error.

Plaintiff sued
The case is stated in the opinion.

.M rWilliam Prescott and .Mr S. S. Gregory for plaintiff in
error. Mr William .M. Booth and _Mr James S. Harlan
were with them on the brief.
Mr W C. Goudy for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTiCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

