CASES ADJUDGED
IN~ TIM

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.

PEN1OYER v. McCO1NAUGHY
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THB
DISTRICT OF OREGON.
No. 1280. Submitted January 5,1891.-Decided April 20, 1891.

A suit m equity against the board of land commissioners of the State of
Oregon, brought by a purchaser of swamp and overflowed lands under
the act of October 26, 1870, in order to restrain the defendants from
doing acts which the bill alleges are violative of the plaintiff's contract
with the State when he purchased the lands, and which are unconstitutional, destructive of the plaintiff's rights and privileges, and which it is
alleged will work irreparable damage and mischief to his property rights
so acquired, is not a suit against the State within the meaning of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The cases reviewed in which suits at law or in equity against officials of a
State, brought without permission of the State, have been held to be,
either suits against the State, and therefore brought in violation of the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, or, on the other hand, suits
against persons Who hold office under the State, for illegal acts done by
them under color of an unconstitutional law of the State, and therefore
not suits against the State.
The act of the legislature of Oregon of January 17, 1879, repealing the act
of October 26, 1870, concerning the swamp and overflowed lands, and
making new regulations concerning the same, did not invalidate an application, duly made before its passage to purchase, such lands; but such an
application could be perfected by making the payments required by the
VOL. CX-D1

OCTOBER TER1',

1890.

Statement of the Case.
act of 1870 after its repeal, but within the time prescribed by that act;
and a title thus acquired is good against the State.
The act of the legislature of Oregon of February 16, 1887 declaring all
certificates of sale of swamp or overflowed lands void on which twenty
per cent of the purchase price was not paid prior to January 17, 1879,
and requiring the board of commissioners to cancel such certificates, unpaired the contract made by the State with the defendant in -error under
the act of October 26, 1870, as that act and the act of January 17 1879,
are construed by the court, and was therefore violative of article 1, section 10, of the Constitution.of the United States.

THis was a suit in equity by the appellee, a citizen of Califorma, against the appellants, who, under the constitution of
Oregon, as governor, secretary of state, and treasurer of state,
comprised the board of land commissioners of that State, to
restrain and enjoin them from selling and conveying a large
amount of land in that State, to which the appellee asserted
title. The lands are a portion of those granted to Oregon
under the swamp land act of March 12, 1860, 12 Stat. 3, and
are claimed by the appellee to have been sold by the State to
one B3. C. Owen, in 1881 and 1884, for a valuable consideration, in accordance with the provisions of an act of the State
legislature approved October 26, 18(0, from whom appellee
derived title.
There was a demurrer to the bill, on the ground that the
.suit was practically against the State, and was, therefore, prohibited by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution. The
demurrer was overruled by Judge Deady, January 28, 1890,
his opinion being reported in 43 Fed. iRep. 196. On rehearing before the same judge August 18, 1890, the order overruling the demurrer was confirmed, 43 Fed. Rep. 339, and a
decree entered perpetually enjoining the defendants from selling the lands in question, as prayed in the amended bill. An
appeal from that decree brought the case here.
The material facts in the case, as presented by the amended
bill and the demurrer, were as follows Art. VIII, ยง 5, of the
constitution of the State of Oregon, provides that "the governor, secretary of state, and state treasurer shall constitute a
board of commissioners for the sale of school and university
lands, and for the investment of the funds arising therefrom,

PENNOYER v. McCONAUGtIY.
Statement of the Case.

and their powers and duties are such as may be prescribed by
law," etc. The act of .the legislature of the State, approved
October 26, 1870, provided a method for the disposal of the
swamp and overflowed lands enuring to her under the act of
March 12, 1860. By its first section it enacted that the commissioner of lands (who at that time was the governor of the
State) should appoint a deputy or deputies to select all the
swamp and overflowed lands in the field, describing each tract
selected in a clear and distinct manner, either by legal subdivisions or by actual survey, and to make return of the same
to the commissioner for examination. The act then provided
as follows
"SEC. 2. So soon as the selection of swamp and overflowed
lands in any county has been completed by said Commissioner
of Lands, it shall be the duty of said Commissioner to make
out maps and descriptions thereof in duplicate, one copy to be
kept in suitable books in his office, and the other to be filed in
the office of the County Clerk of the county in which such
swamp lands may be located, and it shall be the duty of such
County Clerk to forward his official certificate to said Commissioner of the date on which said maps and descriptions
were so filed. Upon 'the receipt of such certificate it shall be
the duty of said Commissioner to give public notice of said
completion, approval and filing, for four weeks successively in
some weekly newspaper published in such county; and if no
newspaper is published in such county, then in such newspaper
as he may select in an adjoining county
"SEC. 3. The swamp and overflowed lands of this State
shall be sold by said Commissioner at a price not less than
one dollar per acre in gold coin. Any person over the age of
twenty-one years, and being a citizen of the United States, or
having filed his declaration to become a citizen, as required
by the naturalization laws, may become an applicant for the
purchase of any tract or tracts of said swamp and overflowed
lands upon filing his application therefor (describing the tract
or tracts he desires to purchase), by the actual survey, or, if
no survey has been made, then by fences, ditches, monuments
or other artificial or natural landmarks, with said Commissioner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

whose duty it shall be to immediately endorse thereon the
actual date of such filing. In case of adverse applicants for
the same tract or parcel of swamp land, it shall be the duty
of said Commissioner to sell the same to the legal applicant
therefor, whose application is first filed. Within ninety days
after the date of the public notice provided in section two of
this act, twenty per centum of the purchase money shall be
paid by the applicant to said Commissioner, whose duty it
shall be to issue to the applicant a receipt therefor, and the
balance of said purchase money shall be paid on proof of
reclamation, as hereinafter provided.
"SEo. 4. No patent shall be issued to any applicant for any
swamp or overflowed lands until the applicant therefor has
proved, to the satisfaction of said Commissioner, that the land
for which he claims a patent has been drained or otherwise
made fit for cultivation, but upon such proof being made,
and payment of the balance of the purchase money on the
amount of land actually reclaimed, the said Commissioner
shall issue to the applicant making such proof and payment,
a patent for the land so reclaimed. Said patent shall be approved and signed by the Governor, Secretary of State and
State Treasurer, as provided for by the Constitution. At the
expiration of ten years from and after his first payment, all
swamp lands claimed by an applicant, upon which no such
proof of reclamation and payment has been made, shall revert
to the State, and the money paid thereon shall be forfeited
P'ovnded, That all swamp land which has been successfully
cultivated in either grass, the cereals or vegetables for three
years, shall be considered as fully reclaimed within the meaning of this act."
.P'ovzded,That in case the office of Com"SEc. 6.
missioner of Lands is not created by law, the provisions of this
Act shall be executed by the Board of Commissioners for the
sale of school and university lands." Session Laws, 1870, p. 54.
'While this act was in force, to wit, at a date prior to
October 18, 1878, Henry C. Owen made an application to
purchase a large quantity of swamp lands from the State,
including the lands in controversy, agreeably to the provisions

PENNOYER v. AcCONIAUGHY.
Statement of the Case.

of the act, and on the 23d of November, 1881, and the 3d of
April, 1884, within ninety days after the date of the public
notice of the completion of the maps and description of the
lands, provided for in the second section of the act, he paid to
the board of commissioners, as required by the third section,
the twenty per centum of the price of over forty-three thousand acres of land. Owen sold these lands to one Felton, who
sold them to the plaintiff for the sum of $30,000, the latter
also assuming to pay to the State the remainder of the purchase price when it became due.
After Owen made his application to purchase, as above
mentioned, but before he had made the first payment, to wit,
October 18, 1878, the legislature of the State passed an act
which went into effect January 17, 1879, (ninety days after its
date, as provided by the constitution of the State,) expressly
repealing the aforesaid act of 1870, and making entirely new
regulations for the disposition and sale. of the swamp lands
belonging to the State. Its ninth section was as follows: "All
applications for the purchase of swamp and overflowed lands
made previous to the passage of this act, which have not
been regularly made in accordance with law, or which were
regularly made, and the applicants have not fully complied
with all the terms and requirements of the law under which
they were made, including the payment of the twenty per centum of the purchase price, are hereby declared void and of no
force or effect whatever." Session Laws of 1878, pp. 41, 46.
February 16, 1887, the legislature of the State passed an
act, the first section of which provided as follows: "All certificates of sale, issued by the board of commissioners for the sale
of school and university lands and for the investment of the
funds arising therefrom, for swamp or overflowed lands on
which the twenty per centum of the purchase price was not
paid prior to January 17, 1879, are hereby declared void and
[of] no force or effect whatever, and said board of commissioners is hereby authorized and directed to cancel said certificates of sale." Session Laws of 1887, pp. 9, 10. The
certificates of sale herein referred to were the receipts provided
for in the third section of the act of 1870.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Argument for Appellants.

Acting under the provisions of the statute of 1887, the board
of land commissioners cancelled the certificates of sale issued
to Owen, as aforesaid, because the twenty per centum of the
price of the land had not been paid prior to January 17, 1879,
the date when the act of 1878 went into effect, and, claiming
that said lands had reverted to the State, had ordered them to
be sold, and had actually sold about 1000 acres of them under
the act of 1887.
JAr Lewzs L. McArthur and .Ar H. H. Northuj for appellants.
I. Owen never had a contract with the State which was
protected by the Constitution of the United States. The act
of October 26, 1870, was not a grant nor did it partake of
the nature of a grant. It was a mere pre~mption privilege.
Such a privilege might be revoked by the State at any
time before any actual consideration passed or before the person who had filed an application for purchase had entered
upon or occupied the land or had begun the reclamation
thereof. We contend that by simply applying to purchase
swamp and overflowed lands under the act referred to, no such
contract relations arose between the applicant and the State
as are contemplated by the constitutional provision invoked
by the appellee. In other words the act -does not belong to
that class of laws which can be denominated contracts, except
so far as it has been actually executed and complied with.
By the act of 1878 a new method of disposing of the public
lands of the State was established. IRestrictions were placed
upon the quantities of land to be purchased by any one applicant, the purchase price was changed, and protection was
afforded actual settlers.
With the repeal of the act of 1870 Owen's mere naked
application to purchase the lands in controversy was bereft of
all legal life. No subsequent act on his part, of whatever
nature, could restore it. Payment of the twenty per centum,
at the time averred in the amended bill, gave him no right
whatsoever to any of the lands and the acceptance of the

PENNOYER v. IIcCONNAUGHY.
Argument for Appellants.

twenty per centum by the board of land commissioners was
without authority of law and did not bind the State.
It is common learning that the authority of a public agent
depends on the law as it is when he acts. He. has only such
powers as are specifically granted, and cannot bind the public
under powers that have been taken away Anthony v County
of Japer, 101 U. S. 693, Coler v Clebur'ne, 131 U. S. 162,
173.
Furthermore, as if to place this matter beyond all contention, section 9 of the act of 1878 declared that
"All applications for the purchase of swamp and overflowed
lands, or tide lands, made previous to the passage of this act,
which have not been regularly made in accordance with law,
or which were regularly made, and the applicants have not
fully complied with all the terms and requirements of the law
under which they were made, including the payment of the
twenty per centum of the purchase price, are hereby declared
void and of no force or effect whatever."
The effect of this section was, as we contend, to require
payment by Owen of the twenty per centum prior to January
19, 1879, the date when the act took effect. Nor does this
construction of the section render it unconstitutional, as impairing the obligation of any contract which Owen had with
the State, for the very obvious reason that he had acquired
no vested rights under the alleged contract.
It is only vested rights growing out of contracts or growing
out of transactions in the nature of contracts authorized by
statute, that are protected by the constitutional provision
invoked by the appellee. And the right must be so far perfected, as that nothing remains to be done by the party asserting it. Then only is it that the repeal of the statute does not
affect the right. Then only is it that it becomes a vested
right which stands independently of the statute. And so
this court decided in SteaInskip Comyany v Joliffe, 2 Wall.
450.
II. This suit, in substance and effect, is one against the State,
and comes within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment
to the Constitution. The appellants have no personal interest

OCTOBER TER4, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

in the controversy They are sued in their representative
capacity, as officers of the State. We claim that the State is,
in a substantive sense, the actual party defendant, and, the
State being within the constitutional exemption guaranteed
by the Eleventh Amendment, the court below did not have
jurisdiction. This principle was decided in In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443, in which it was distinctly held that where a bill in
equity is brought against the officers and agents of a State,
the nominal defendants have no personal interest in the subject matter of the suit, and such bill, being for an injunction
against such officers and agents to restrain and enjoin them
from acts which it is alleged they threaten to do, in pursuance
of a statute of the State, in its name and for its use, and which,
if done, would constitute a breach on the part of the State of
an alleged contract between it and the complainants, is a suit
against the State within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment, although the State may not be named as a party defendant.
Ar C. A. Dolph and 21r C. R. Bellinger for appellee.
iMR. JUSTICE LAwAR, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The contention of the complainant below was, that the act
of 1887, under which the defendants below assumed to act, in
the matter of the cancellation of his certificates of sale, was
in violation of section 10, article I, of the Constitution of the
United States, in that it impaired the obligation of the contract made between Owen and the State for the sale of the
lands, that the defendants were, therefore, acting in the premises without authority of law, and that, for those reasons, it
could not be asserted that the suit was against the State.
The defendants, on the other hand, insisted that the aforesaid
legislation was valid and constitutional, that the suit was, in
effect, against the State, and that, therefore, the Circuit Court
was forbidden to exercise jurisdiction in the matter by the
Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution.
This appeal, therefore, involves the construction and appli-

PENNOYER v. McCONNAUGHY.
Opinion of the Court.

cation of two distinct provisions of the Constitution which are
set up, one against the other, by the parties to the controversy,
in support of their respective contentions. The complainant
below bases his claim for the relief prayed for upon that clause
of section 10, article I, which provides that "no State shall
pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts," whilst
the defendants below, the appellees, rely upon the Eleventh
Amendment to the Constitution, which declares that "the
judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to
extend to any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted
against any of the United States by citizens of another State,
or by citizens or subjects of a foreign State."
The question, then, of jurisdiction is first presented for determination. Is this suit, in legal effect, one against a State,
within the meaning of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution2 A very large number of cases involving a variety
of questions arising under this amendment have been before
this court for adjudication, and, as might naturally be expected, in view of the important interests and the wide-reaching political relations involved, the dissenting opinions have
been numerous. Still the general principles enunciated by
these adjudications will, upon a review of the whole, be found
to be such as the majority of the court and the dissentients
are substantially agreed upon.
It is well settled that no action can be maintained in any
Federal court by the citizens of one of the States against a
State, without its consent, even though the sole object of such
suit be to bring the State within the operation of the constitutional provision which provides that "no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts." This immunity
of a State from suit is absolute and unqualified, and the constitutional provision securing it is not to be so construed as to
place the State within the reach of the process of the court.
Accordingly, it is equally well settled that a suit against the
officers of a State, to compel them to do the acts which constitute a performance by it of its contracts, is, in effect, a suit
against the State itself.
In the application of this latter principle two classes of

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

cases have appeared in the decisions of this court, and it is in
determining to which class a particular case belongs that differing views have been presented.
The first class is where the suit is brought against the officers of the State, as representing the State's action and liability, thus making it, though not a party to the record, the real
party against which the judgment will so operate as to compel
it to specifically perform its contracts. liZ re Ayers, 123 U S.
443, Louzszana v Jurmel, 107 U. S. 711, Anton= v Greenhow,
107 U. S. '769, Cunnzngham v 3lacon & Brunswck Railroad,
109 U. S. 446, Hagood v Southern, 117 U S. 52.
The other class is where a suit is brought against defendants
who, claiming to act as officers of the State, and under the
color of an unconstitutional statute, commit acts of wrong and
injury to the rights and property of the plaintiff acquired under
a contract with the State. Such suit, whether brought to recover money or property in the hands of such defendants,
unlawfully taken by them in behalf of the State, or for compensation in damages, or, in a proper case where the remedy
at law is inadequate, for an injunction to prevent such wrong
and injury, or for a mandamus, in a like case, to enforce upon
the defendant the performance of a plain, legal duty, purely
ministerial - is not, within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment, an action against the State. Osborn v Bank
of the Undted States, 9 Wheat. '738, Dams v Gray, 16 Wall.
203, Tomlinson v Branch, 15 Wall. 460, Ltchfleld v Te-ester County, 101 U. S. '773, Allen v Baltmore & New Railroad, 114 U S. 311, Board of L]iuidatton v JifComb, 92
U S. 531, Pozndexter v Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270.
It is not our purpose to attempt a review of all, or even
many, of these decisions, as to do so intelligently would unnecessarily protract this opinion, and in this connection, would
subserve no useful purpose. It will be sufficient, perhaps, to
refer to some of those which this case most nearly resembles.
It is believed that the case before us is within the principles
of the great and leading case of Osborn v Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. 738, the opinion in which was delivered by
Chief Justice Marshall. That was a suit in equity, brought

PENNOYER v. IcCONNAUGHY.
Opinon of the Court.

m- the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Ohio, by the president, directors and company of the Bank of
the United States, to restrain Ralph Osborn, auditor of the
State of Ohio, from executing a law of that State which was
in violation of, and destructive to, the rights and privileges
conferred upon the complainants by the charter of the bank
and by the Constitution of the United States. One of the
leading inquiries in the case was, whether an injunction could
be issued to restrain a person, who was a State officer, from
performing an official act enjoined by the statute of the State.
The question presented by that inquiry was discussed, in a
masterly manner, on the assumption that the statute of the
State was unconstitutional, and it was held that in such a case,
grounds of equity interposition existing, injunction would lie.
With regard to the objection, that if any case was made by
the bill, for the interference of a court of chancery, it was
against the State of Ohio, and was, therefore, within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment, the court held that the
exemption of the State from suability could not be pleaded by
its officers when they were proceeded against for executing
an unconstitutional act of the State. This question was discussed most thoroughly, in the light of the other provisions
of the Constitution relating to the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts, and the conclusion arrived at thus announced "It was
proper, then, to make a decree against the defendants in the
Circuit Court, if the law of the State of Ohio be repugnant to
the Constitution, or to a law of the United States made in pursuance thereof, so as to furnish no authority to those who
took or to those who received the money for which this suit
was instituted." 9 Wheat. 859.
The statute of Ohio, under which the defendant was acting,
was then examined and found to be unconstitutional. The
case may then be said to have fully established the doctrine
that an officer of a State may be enjoined from executing a
statute of the State which is in conflict with the Constitution
of the United States, when such execution would violate and
destroy the rights and privileges of the complainant.
The principle stated by Chief Justice Marshall, (in that case,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

that "in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party; it
is the party named in the record," and that "the Eleventh
Amendment is limited to those suits in which the State is a
party to the record," has been qualified to a certain degree in
some of the subsequent decisions of this court, and now it is
the settled doctrine of this court that the question whether a
suit is within the prohibition of the Eleventh Amendment is
not always determined by reference to the nominal parties on
the record, as the- court will look behind and through the
nominal parties on the record to ascertain who are the real
parties to the suit. 2LVew Eampshre v Zouisiana, and New
York v Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76, In, re Ayers, supra.
But the general doctrine of Osborn v Bank of the United
States, that the circuit courts of the United States will restrain
a state officer from executing an unconstitutional statute of
the State, when to execute it would violate rights and privileges of the complainant which had been guaranteed by the
Constitution, and would work irreparable damage and injury
to him, has never been departed from. On the contrary, the
principles of that case have been recognized-and enforced in a
very large-number of cases, notably in those we have referred
to, as belonging to the second class of cases above mentioned.
In Davis v Gray, the State of Texas had granted to a railroad corporation of that State 16 alternate sections of land
per mile along the line of the road which was thereafter to be
located. The company surveyed the lands and located its
road through them. After all those things had been done,
the commissioner of the state land office, and the governor of
the State, acting under the authority of a statute of the State,
which had declared the lands forfeited to the State, were
selling certain of the lands and delivering patents for them to
the purchasers. At the suit of the receiver of the road, the
Circuit Court of the United States enjoined them from interfering with the rights of the road in the premises, and selling
and conveying its lands, and that decree was affirmed by this
court. Some of the expressions in the opinion m that case
were criticised in the subsequent case of United States v lee,
106 U S.196, 244, and also in In re Ayers, 123 U S.4:43, 487,

IPENNOYER v.

cCOI NAUGHY.

Opinion of the Court.

488, where the objectionable expressions were examined and
held to have been mere dicta. It has not been overruled,
however, but, on the contrary, it has been cited with approval
and relied upon as authority in a number of subsequent cases;
and the underlying principles of it are regarded as sound.
In Board of Liqz datwnh v .McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 541, the
same principle was applied. In that case an injunction was
issued by the Circuit Court of the United States, at the suit of
the holder of certain bonds of the State of Louisiana, to restrain the board of liquidation of the State, composed of the
governor and certain other state officers, from issuing certain
of the same kind of bonds to liquidate a debt claimed to be
due from the State to the Louisiana Levee Company, on the
ground that such use would impair the securities of the complainant, and would thus be violative of the contract he had
with the State, and that decree was affirmed by this court on
appeal. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice
Bradley said "The objections to proceeding against state
officers by mandamus or injunction are first, that it is, in
effect, proceeding against the State itself, and, secondly, that
it interferes with the official discretion vested in the officers.
It is conceded that neither of these things can be done. A
State, without its consent, cannot be sued by an individual,
and a court cannot substitute its own discretion for that of
executive officers in matters belonging to the proper jurisdiction of the latter. But it has been well settled, that, when a
plain official duty, requiring no exercise of discretion, is to be
performed, and performance is refused, any person who will
sustain personal injury by such refusal may have a mandamus
to compel its performance, and when such duty is threatened
to be violated by some positive official act, any person who
will sustain personal injury thereby, for which adequate compensation cannot be had at law, may have an injunction to
prevent it. In such cases, the writs of mandamus and injunction are somewhat correlative to each other. In either case,
if the officer plead the authority of an unconstitutional law for
the non-performance or violation of his duty, it will not prevent the issuing of the writ. An unconstitutional law will

OCTOBER TER-Af, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

be treated by the courts as null and void," citing Osborn v.
Bank of the United States and Davis v Gray.
Poindexter v Greenlow has been adverted to. That was an
action in detinue against the treasurer of the city of IRichmond, Virgiuia, for the recovery of an office desk which he
had seized for delinquent taxes, in payment of which the plaintiff had duly tendered coupons cut from bonds issued by the
State- of Virginia, under the funding act of March 30, 1871,
and made by that act receivable for all taxes due the State.
The defendant, under color of office, as tax collector, and acting in the enforcement of a statute of the State passed in 1882,
which forbade the receipt of the coupons for taxes, refused to
receive such tender and made the seizure complained of. It
was held by this court that the act of the General Assembly
passed in 1882 was unconstitutional and void, because it was
an impairment of the contract entered into between the State
and its bondholders by the act of 1871, that being unconstitutional, it afforded no protection to the defendant, that the
action was properly maintainable against him, as a wrongdoer; and that it was not an action against the State, in the
sense of the Eleventh Amendment. The whole question was
discussed most thoroughly by Mr. Justice Matthews, both on
principle and authority, and the following from the opinion of
the court, delivered by Mr. Justice Miller, in Cunningha v
.lfacon & Brunswick Railroad, 109 U S. 446, 452, quoted
with approval "Another class of cases is where an individual
is sued in tort for some act injurious to another in regard to
person or property, to which his defence is that he has acted
under the orders of the government. In these cases he is not
sued as, or because he is, the officer of the government, but as
an individual, and the court is not ousted of jurisdiction because he asserts authority as such officer. To make out his
defence he must show that his authority was sufficient in law
to protect him."
Allen v Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Company, 114 U. S.
311, decided at the same time as Poindeceterv .Greenhow, and
on the authority of that case, was, in all essential features,
similar to the case under consideration. In discussing the

PENNOYER v. McCOT"L AUGHY.
Opinion of the Court.

remedy by injunction against officers of a State, in such cases,
Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the opinion of the court, relied
largely upon Osborn v Bank of the United States, Board of
-Lquidatwn v AfcComb .Davis v Gray and many other
cases, and the language above quoted from Board of Iquizdation v .X1Comb was quoted with approval.
The case of .fcGahey v Virginta, 135 U S. 662, 684, was a
suit instituted in the Circuit Court of Alexandria, Virgina, in
the name of the Commonwealth, against the defendant, under
the act of May 12, 1887, for the recovery of taxes due from him,
in payment of which coupons cut from the bonds of the State
had been tendered and not accepted. Judgment for the State
was rendered by the Circuit Court, which, on appeal, was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Brought before
this court on a writ of error, the judgment of the state court
was reversed. This case, with seven others, reported under
this title, grew out of the legislation of the State regarding
coupons of the same character as those involved in the Virginia coupon cases. Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the unammous opinion of the court, after a full and exhaustive review
and analysis of the decisions in those cases and others like
them, presented a summary of the propositions established by
those decisions which cannot be well abridged, as follows
"First, That the provisions of the act of 1871 constitute a
contract between the State of Virginia and the lawful holders
of the bonds and coupons issued under and in pursuance of
said statute,
"Second, That the various acts of the General Assembly of
Virginia passed for the purpose of restraining the use of said
coupons for the payment of taxes and other dues to the State,
and imposing impediments and obstructions to that use, and to
the proceedings instituted for establishing their genuineness,
do in many respects impair the obligation of that contract,
and cannot be held to be valid or binding in so far as they
have that effect,
"Third, That no proceedings can be instituted by any holder
of said bonds or coupons against the Commonwealth of Virginia, either directly by suit against the Commonwealth by

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

name, or indirectly against her executive officers to control them
in the exercise of their official functions as agents of the State,
"Fourth, That any lawful holder of the tax-receivable coupons of the State, issued under the act of 1871 or the subsequent act of 1879, who tenders such coupons in payment of
taxes, debts, dues and demands due from him to the State, and
continues to hold himself ready to tender the same in payment
thereof, is entitled to be free from molestation in person or
goods on account of such taxes, debts, dues or demands, and
may vindicate such right in all lawful modes of redress, - by
suit to recover his property, by suit against the officer to recover damages for taking it, by injunction to prevent such
taking where it would be attended with irremediable injury,
or by a defence to a suit brought against him for his taxes or
the other claims standing against him."
The dividing line between the cases to which we have referred and the class of cases in which it has been held that the
State is a party defendant, and, therefore, not suable, by virtue of the inhibition contained in the Eleventh Amendment to
the Constitution, was adverted to in Cunnbngham v XAacon &
Brunswzcc Railroad,where it was said, referring to the case
of .Dawns v Gray, supra "IYor was there in that case any affirmatve relief granted by ordering the governor and land
commissioner to .erform any act towards pe;fecting the title of
the company." 109 U S. 453, 454. Thus holding, by implication, at least, that affirmative relief would not be 'granted
against a State officer, by ordering him to do and perform acts
forbidden by the law of his State, even though such law might
be unconstitutional.
The same distinction was pointed out in Hagoodv Southern,
which was held to be, in effect, a suit against the State, and
it was said. "A broad line of demarcation separates from such
cases as the present, in which the decrees require, by affirmative ofictal action on the part of the defendants, the pe2formance of an oblhgatzon whwh belongs to the State in tts _political
capacty, those in which actions at law or suits in equity are
maintained against defendants who, while claiming to act as
officers of the State, violate and invade the personal and prop-

PENNOYER v. IRCOiNiNAUGHY.
Opinion of the Court.

erty rights of the plaintiffs, under color of authority, unconstitutional and void." 117 U. S. 52, 70.
The cases in whrch suits against officers of a State have
been considered as against the State itself, and, therefore,
within the inhibition of the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution, and those in which such suits were considered to be
against state officers, as individuals, were elaborately reviewed
and distinguished in the recent case of I r'e Ayers, 123 U S.
443. That case came before us on application for habeas cot
_pus by the attorney general of Virginia, the auditor of the
State, and the commonwealth's attorney for Loudoun county
in that State, who were in the custody of the United States
marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia, for contempt of
court, in disobeying a restraining order of the Circuit Court of
the United States for that district, commanding them not to
institute and prosecute certain suits in the name of the State
of Virginia, required to be brought by the statutes of the
State. The suit in which the restraining or.der was issued
was nominally against certain officers of the State, but this
court held that it was, in effect, a suit against the State itself,
and, therefore, in violation of the Eleventh Amendment to the
Constitution. And that such being true, the acts and proceedings of the Circuit Court in that suit were null and void
for all purposes, and the prisoners were discharged. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Matthews, refer
ring to the class of cases in which it had been adjudged that
the suit was against state officers in their private capacity, and
not against the State, said "The vital principle in all such
cases is that the defendants, though professing to act as officers of the State, are threatening a violation of the personal
or property rights of the complainant, for which they are perThis feature will be
sonally and individually liable.
found, on an examination, to characterize every case where
persons have been made defendants for acts done or threatened
by them as officers of the government, either of a State or of
the United States, where the objection has been interposed
that the State was the real defendant, and has been overruled."
123 U. S.500, 501.
VoL. c

-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

In H7ans v Zouzszana, 131 U. S. 1, 20, 21, the general rule
on this subject was concisely stated by -Mr.Justice Bradley in
the following terms "To avoid misapprehension it may be
proper to add that, although the obligations of a State rest
for their performance upon its honor and good faith, and cannot be made the subjects of judicial cognizance unless the
State consents to be sued, or comes itself into court, yet
where property or rights are enjoyed under a grant or contract made by a State, they cannot wantonly be invaded.
Whilst the State cannot be compelled by suit 'to perform its
contracts, any attempt on its part to violate property or rights
acquired under its contract, may be judicially resisted, and
any law impairing the obligation of contracts under which
such property or rights are held is void and powerless to affect
their enjoyment."
Little remains to be done or said by us in this connection,
except to apply the principles announced in the cases we have
attempted to review to the facts m the case before us, as set
forth in our introductory statement. In this connection it
must be borne in mind that this suit is not nominally against
the governor, secretary of state, and treasurer, as such officers,
but against them collectively, as the board of land commissioners. It must also be observed that the plaintiff is not seeking
any affirmative relief against the State or any of its officers.
He is not asking that the State be compelled to issue patents
to him for the land he claims to have purchased, nor is he
seeking to compel the defendants to do and perform any acts
in connection with the subject matter of the controversy requisite to complete his title. All that he asks is, that the defendants may be restrained and enjoined from doing certain acts
which he alleges are violative of his contract made with the
State when he purchased his lands. He merely asks that
an injunction may issue against them to restrain them from
acting under a statute of the State alleged to be unconstitutional, which acts will be destructive of his rights and privileges, and will work irreparable damage and imischief to his
property rights. The case cannot be distinguished, in principle, from Osborn v Banko of the United States, Davis v Gray,

PENNOYER v. McCONNAUGHY.
Opinion of the Court.

Board of Liqutdaton v. to Comb and Allen v Baltimore
& 0Ow Railroad Co., cited above, and the reasoning in
those cases applies with equal force in this. The essential difference between these cases and the case of In re Ayers, upon
which the appellants mainly rely, was pointed out in the lastnamed case, and need not be adverted to further in this conne-tion. We think it clearly demonstrated from the authorities above referred to that the relief prayed can be granted, if,
as is contended for, the legislation of the State under which
the defendants are assuming to act is unconstitutional, in that
it operates to impair the obligation of a contract. And this
leads to a consideration of that legislation with respect to that
contention.
The position of the complainant below is, that, as the swamp
lands of the State were for, sale upon the terms and conditions
mentioned in the act of 1870, a valid contract, binding upon
both parties to it, was completed between the State and the
applicant the moment a legal application to purchase was filed
with the proper officer of the State and accepted by him. This
was the view taken by the Circuit Court.
We quote from the opinion of Judge Deady as follows:
"The transaction, as set forth in the statute, has all the elements of a contract of sale. The statute is a formal, standing
offer by the State of these lands for sale, on the terms therein
mentioned, and an invitation to all qualified citizens of the
United States to become purchasers thereof by filing an application for some specific tract thereof with the board, and complying with the subsequent conditions of payment and reclamation. The application is a written acceptance of the offer
of the State, in relation to the land described therein, and, on
the filing of the same, the minds of the seller and the purchaser - the State. and the applicant - came together on the
proposition, and thenceforth there was an agreement between
them for the sale and purchase of that parcel of land, binding
on each of them, until released therefrom by some substantial
default of the other, not overlooked or excused." 43 Fed.
Rep. 202.
We think this view very forcible, and it would be conclusive

OCTOBER TERMNT, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to our minds but for the consideration which suggests itself
that the bare application itself, unaccompanied by the payment of any consideration, partakes somewhat of thenature
of a premption claim under the laws of the United States,
with reference to which it has been held that the occupancy
and improvement of the land by the settler, and the filing of
the declaratory statement of such fact, confers no vested rigoht
upon him, as against the government of the United States,
until all the preliminary acts prescribed by law, including the
payment of the price, are complied with. Yosemzte Valley
Case, 15 Wall. 77, .Fzsbze v Tkidtney, 9 Wall. 187.
But we do not deem it necessary to determine whether the
court was correct in that view of the case, for, in our opinion,
another element of the case is of sufficient importance to control its disposition. Even if no vested right accrued to the
applicant immediately upon the filing of his application and
its acceptance by the authorities of the State, it is conceded
on all hands that he acquired such a right upon the payment
of the twenty per centum of the purchase price of the lands
embraced in his application, if such payment was made in
accordance with law The defendants contend that the payments in this case were not made in accordance with law,
because they were not made until after the act of October 18,
1878, went into effect, which act not only expressly repealed
the act of 1870, under which the sale to Owen was made, but,
in its ninth section, provided as follows "All applications for
made
the purchase of swamp and overflowed lands,
regunot
been
act,
which
have
of
this
previous to the passage
regularly
which
were
law,
or
accordance
with
made
in
larly
made, and the applicants have not fully complied with all the
terms and requirements of the law under which they were
made, including the payment of the twenty per centum of the
purchase price, are hereby declared void and of no force or
effect whatever." The argument is, that the applicant had
not fully complied with the law of 1870, "including the payment of the twenty per centum of the purchase price" of the
lands embraced in his application, previous to the passage of
this act, and that, therefore, under the act, his application be-

P-ENNOYER v. McCONNAUGHY.
Opimon of the Court.

came null and void. On the other hand, it is insisted with
equal earnestness that the applicant had done all in his power
to complete his application, prior to the act of 1878, and was
only prevented from doing so and paying the first instalment
of the purchase money, by reason of the delay on the part of
the officers of the State, in performing the duties imposed
upon them by the act of 1870, that the ninety days after the
publication of notice of the completion, approval and filing of
the maps and description of lands, provided for by the second
section of the act of 1870, within which, under the third section of the act, the applicant was required to pay the first
instalment of the purchase money, did not expire until long
after the act of 1878 went into effect, that within said ninety
days the applicant paid, and the commissioner received, the
twenty per centum of the purchase price of the land embraced
in his application, and that, by reason of the premises and for
the further reason that, until now, the act of 1878 had never
been considered as nullifying applications such as the one
under consideration, the application of Owen should be held
good and valid, and operative to vest in the applicant an indefeasible right and title to the lands in dispute.
There is some force in both of these contentions. But it
seems to be conceded that, as stated in the opinion of Judge
Deady, from the passage of the act of 1878 until the enactment of the statute of 1887, the construction put upon the
former act was in harmony with that claimed by the plaintiff
in this case. The act does not appear to have ever received a
construction at the hands of the Supreme Court of the State,
but the board of land commissioners, whose duty it was to
administer the swamp land grant on behalf of the State, always
followed that construction. A copy of an opinion of the board,
delivered a few years after the passage of the act of 1878, on a
contest involving other lands similarly circumstanced, between
Owen and a party claiming that Owen's right had become forfeited, under the act of 1878, for his failure to pay the twenty
per centum of the purchase price of the lands prior to the
passage of that act, is set forth in the brief of counsel for
appellee. That opinion is admitted by counsel for appellants

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

to have been delivered by the board, and the copy is not controverted. It is as follows "The act of 1878 does not, however, attempt to interfere with applicants who had complied
with the law of 1870. Section 9 of that act provides that ' all
applications for the purchase of swamp land made previous to
the passage of this act [act 6f 1878] which have not been regularly made in accordance with law, or which were regularly
made, and the applicants have not fully complied with all the
terms and requirements of the law under which they were
made, including the payment of the twenty per centum of the
purchase price, are hereby declared void and of no force or
effect whatever.' A strict construction of this language might
have the effect to forfeit all applications where the twenty per
centum had not been paid, although the applicant had fully
complied with the law as far as the circumstances would admit
of a compliance. We have had occasion to consider that
question frequently, and have concluded that it ought not to
receive that construction. The legislature may have had the
power to suspend every application of that character and
declare it a nullity, but we do not think it so intended, that
it only intended to declare void those applications where the.
non-payment of the twenty per centum had been a violation
of the condition contained in the act of October 26, 1870. In
many cases the applicant to purchase under the latter act was
not in default when it was repealed, although he had not paid
the twenty per centum [of the] purchase price, as the circumstances had not arisen or the time elapsed requiring its
payment."
In Corpe v Brooks, 8 Oregon, 222, 223, 224, the powers
and duties of the board of commissioners were defined by the
Supreme Court of the State in the following language. "This
board was created by the state constitution and by it invested
with the power to dispose of these State lands, and its powers
and duties are such as are provided by law It is composed
of the governor, secretary of state and state treasurer, and
is a part of the administrative department of the government,
and exercises its powers independent of the judiciary department, and its decisions are not subject to be reversed by the

PENINOYER v. McCOINTNAUGHY.
Opinion of the Court.

court. It occupies in this State the same relation to the state
judiciary as the land department of the United States does to
the United States courts, and their decisions have not been
the subject of review by the United States courts."
The principle that the contemporaneous construction of a
statute by the executive officers of the government, whose
duty it is to execute it, is entitled to great respect, and should
ordinarily control the construction of the statute by the courts,
is so firmly imbedded in our jurisprudence, that no authorities
need be cited to support it. On the faith of a construction
thus adopted, rights of property grow up which ought not to
be ruthlessly swept aside, unless some great public measure,
benefit or right is involved, or unless the construction itself is
manifestly incorrect. We do not think the construction of
the act of 1878 by the board of commissioners is subject to
either of these objections. The board evidently went upon
the theory that the applicant to purchase land from the State,
under the act of 1870, acquired by his application some sort
of a property right, at least, that was not defeated by a repeal
of the statute under which he applied, that if his right was
not defeated by the repeal of the statute, he certainly ought
to be allowed to go on and complete it according to the terms
of the act, even though it had been repealed in the meantime,
and that the ninth section of the act of 1878, therefore, did
not nullify applications for the purchase of land from the
State when the twenty per centum of the purchase price had
not been paid prior to its going into effect. It is not straining
that section to rule, as did the board of land commissioners,
that "it only intended to declare void those applications where
the non-payment of the twenty per centum had been a violation of the condition contained in the act of October 26, 1870."
That section declares, among other things, that all applications
for the purchase of swamp lands made previous to the passage
of that act in which the applicants had not fully complied
with all the tprms and requirements of the law of 1870, ineluding the payment of the twenty per centum of the purchase
price, should be declared void, etc.
We think there were strong reasons for the view taken by

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the board of land commissioners that the phrase "including the
payment of the twenty per centum of the purchase.price" had
reference to a condition prescribed by the act of 1870, and
that what the legislature intended thereby was, that all applications should be void in which the applicant had not paid
the twenty per centum of the price, zn accordance with tke
terms of the act of 1870. That is to say, one of the terms or
con'ditions of the act of 1870, prescribed by its third section,
was, that the applicant should pay the twenty per centum of
the purchase price within a specified time, viz., ninety days
after the notice of the completion, approval and filing of the
map and description of the land, and if he had not complied
with that condition his application was nullified by the ninth
section of the act of 1878. The State had the right to contract for the sale of its swamp lands, and in the enforcement
of its contract it had the right to insist upon a full compliance
with the terms of the contract on the part of the applicant.
It had the right to make the time of payment of the essence
of the contract, and we are not prepared to say it did not do
so. This reasoning leads logically to the conclusion that the
ninth section of the act of 1878 was not intended to render
void applications to purchase in which every condition of the
act of 1870 had been complied with so far as lay in the power
of the applicant, and where the failure to make the payment
specified was caused solely by the failure of the other contracting party We therefore accept the construction of the act
of 1878 adopted by the board of land commissioners, and acted
upon for so long a period of time in the administration of the
swamp land grant, and hold that the application of Owen,
in this case, was not rendered void by the act of 1878, and
that, by the subsequent payment of the first instalment of
the purchase price of the land embraced in his application, he
acquired a vested right to those lands. In other words, by
such payment, this contract with the State became so far
executed as to be embraced in the class of contracts protected
by ยง 10 of Art. 1 of the Constitution of the "United States,
which declares that "no State shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts."

HENDERSON v. CARBONDALE COAL & COKE CO.

25

Syllabus.

Does the statute of 1887, above quoted, impair such a contract ? We think it does, beyond all doubt. It, in so many
words, authorizes the board of commissioners to cancel the
certificates of sale where the twenty per centum of the purchase price of the land had not been paid prior to January 17,
1879, and treats the lands embraced in such certificates as
reverted to the State. That legislation surely impaired the
obligation of the contract Owen had with the State, for its
effect was to destroy valuable property, rights and privileges
belonging to him. It was, therefore, violative of the Constitution of the United States. Art. 1, ยง 10.
That statute being the one under which the appellants
assumed to act, affords them no security or immunity for the
acts complained of, and it cannot be said, therefore, that this
is a suit against the State, within the meaning of the Eleventh
Amendment.
Decree aflrmed.
HENDERSON
HITCHCOCK

.

. CARBONDALE COAL AND
COMPANY

COKE

CARBONDALE COAL AND

COKE

COMPANY
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 247, 248. Argued March 24,2 ,1891.-Decided April 20,1891.

The rule in Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27, that "in equity as in admiralty,
when several persons join in one suit to assert several and distinct interests, and those interests alone are m dispute, the amount of the interest
of each is the limit of the appellate jurisdiction," affirmed and applied.
Equity leans against lessors seeking to enforce a forfeiture of the lease,
and only decrees in their favor when there is full, clear and strict proof
of a legal right thereto.
Leased property in Illinois being in the bands of a receiver, and there being
no evidence that he lived at St. Louis, proof of the mailing of a registered letter to him at that place, claiming a forfeiture of the lease for
non-payment of rent, and of an endorsement on the receipt of the receiver's name "per 0. Al. Pierce" is not such proof of the personal ser-

