OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

HILL v. CHICAGO AND EVANSTON
COMPANY
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIRCUIT

THE NORTHERN

No. 246.

COURT

RAILROAD

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Argued March 24, 1891. -Decided

April 20,1891.

The decree of June 8, 1885, dismissing the bill in this case as to certain
parties for want of equity, and denying relief to complainant "upon all
matters and things in controversy," which was before this court in Hill
v. Chicago & Evanston Railroad, 129 U. S. 170, was a final decree as to
all matters determined by it; and its finality is not affected by the fact
that there was left to be determined by the master, a further severable
matter in which the appellant parties had no interest.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

-Mr If D CG-over for appellant.
A& John IF Cw-y for appellees who were not dismissed by
the decree of June 8, 1885.
A& JohnLV Jewett for the appellees who were dismissed by
the decree of June 8, 1885, submitted on his brief.
MR.

JUSTIOE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This isoa suit in equity to compel a transfer to the complainant of certain shares of the capital stock of the Chicago
and Evanston Railroad Company, and for other relief. It is
brought against numerous defendants, who are alleged to be
interested more or less in the several contracts and transactions
out of which the claim of the complainant arises.
Issue having been joined by the replication to the answer,
evidence was taken, and upon the pleadings and proofs the
case was brought to a hearing in May, 1885, before the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois.
On the 8th of June following a decree was made, by which,

HILL v. CHICAGO & EVANSTON RAILROAD CO.

53

Opinion of the Court.

among other things, it was ordered and decreed that the bill
be dismissed for want of equity as against certain of the defendants named, and that relief be denied to the complainant

"upon all matters and things in controversy" therein, except
as to the amount of money paid by the defendant William C.

Goudy for right of way in execution of a certain contract
designated, and that for the purpose of ascertaining that
amount the case be retained as to the other defendants, and be
referred to a master in chancery to take additional testimony
on that subject, and to report the amount paid, the court also
declaring that on the making of the report such further decree
would be rendered as might be equitable. The defendants
against whom the case was thus retained were the Chicago
and Evanston Railroad Company and its directors, constituting
the only parties interested in the amount to be ascertained.
From this decree the complainant prayed an appeal, which
was allowed, upon the filing of the specified bond with sureties
to be approved by the court. No such bond was given, nor
was the appeal perfected, nor the record filed in this court at
its next subsequent October term. In January, 1889, the
appeal was on motion dismissed, this court following in that
respect its repeated decisions that it has no jurisdiction of an
appeal, unless the transcript of the record is fied here at the
Rilt v Ohwtago &
next term after the appeal is taken.
Evanston Railroad, 129 U S. 170, 174.
The master in chancery took testimony upon the subject of
the amount paid by the defendant Goudy, as directed, and in
January, 1887, made his report, which, on the 14th of July
following, was confirmed, and the court thereupon ordered
and decreed that the Chicago and Evanston Railroad Company
forthwith pay to the complainant the sum of $6513, with
interest, and the costs of the reference and of the suit, and
.also that all other relief prayed by the complainant be denied
as against that company, and that the bill be dismissed against
the remaining defendants for want of equity, with costs.
From this decree the complainant prayed an appeal, which
was allowed and perfected.
The case is now before the court upon this last appeal, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

the question is whether, upon it, any of the matters which
were determined by the decree of June 8, 1885, are again
open for consideration. All the errors alleged relate to that
decree, none are assigned to the decree of July 14, 1887.
We are of the opinion that the decree of June 8, 1885, was
a final decree, within the meaning of that term in the law
respecting the appellate jurisdiction of this court, as to all
matters determined by it, and that they are closed against
any further consideration. It disposed of every matter of
contention between the parties, except as to the amount of
one item, and referred the case to a master to ascertain that.
It dismissed the bill against several defendants for want of
equity, and denied relief to the complainant upon all matters
in controversy except as to that amount, and retained the
case only as against the parties interested in that matter.
The rights and liabilities of all the parties were in other
respects determined.
But there was no adjudication as to the payment of the
amount to be ascertained by the master; that remained unsettled. It was, however, a severable matter from the other
subjects of controversy and did not affect their determination.
The fact that it was not disposed of did not change the
finality of the decree as to the defendants against whom the
bill was dismissed, that amount, or to whom made payable,
did not concern them. They were no longer parties to the
suit for any purpose. The appeal from the subsequent decree
did not reinstate them. All the merits of the controversy
pending between them and the complainant were disposed of,
and could not be again reopened, except on appeal from that
decree. As to the other parties, it remained to ascertain the
amount of one item and to determine as to its payment. The
decree of July 14, 1887, covered that matter, and finally disposed of it. The decree of June 8, 1885, was appealable as to
the matters which it fully determined so also was the decree
of July 14, 1887, as to the severable matter which it involved.
Todd v Damel, 16 Pet. 521, llorgay v ConracZ, 6 How 201,
IMt/enbury v Untec States, 5 Wall. 819, Germarm v -Nason,
12 Wall. 259, Milner v Xteek, 95 U S. 2.52. But the time

INTERNATIONAL TOOTA CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.

55

Statement of the Case.

to appeal from the first decree elapsed, and, no question
being raised as to the second decree, that of July 14, 1881f, it
must be
-Affirmed,and t 's so ordered.

INTERNATIONAL TOOTH CROWN COMPANY
v. GAYLORD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNE TICUT.
No. 294. Argued April 8,1891.-Decided April 27,1891.
Letters patent No. 277,941, granted May 22, 1883, to Cassius l. Richmond
for an artificial denture, are void by reason of an abandonment of the
invention to the public by the inventor before the patent was applied for.
Letters patent No. 277,943, granted to Cassius M. Richmond May 22, 1883,
for a process for preparing roots of teeth for the reception of artificial
dentures, are void for want of novelty and for want of invention in the
invention claimed in it.
It is no invention, within the meaning of the law, to perform with increased
speed a series of surgical operations, old in themselves, and in the order
in wnch they were before performed.

IN EQUITY, for the infringement of letters patent.
was stated by the court as follows

The case

This was a bill in equity for the infringement of two letters
patent, granted May 22, 1883, to Cassius IM. Richmond, viz.,
No. 277,941 for an artificial denture, and No. 277,943 for a
process for preparing roots of teeth for the reception of artificial dentures.
The main contest took place over No. 277,911, which covered a device intended to replace the loss or destruction of
that part of the natural tooth which projects into the mouth
externally to the gum, the device being an artificial crown to
be placed upon and supported by the natural stump or root of
the partially destroyed tooth. The manner in which this is
done was stated in the specification substantially as follows
The top of the tooth is cut off and a hole drilled in the root,

