OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the issues in it were concerned, and could have been tried at
that term of the court. That term closed on the 29th day of
that month, and on the 3d day of Aarch, 1885, which was the
next term, said motion and plea m abatement were overruled,
and the defendant excepted. The case was then put on the
trial list for that term and the subsequent terms, up to the
time it was reached in its order at the January sitting, 1886,
and the defendant took no further action for the removal until
it was reached for trial, when he called attention to the steps
he had taken for removal, and objected to the trial of the
action in the State court. It was then too late, under the
statute of March 3, 1875, to make an application for removal
to the Federal court. Babbitt v Clark, 103 U S. 606, 612,
Pullman Palace Car Co. v 8peck, 113 U. S. 84, 87, Gregory
v Hartley, 113 U. S. 742, 746.
This disposes of the only Federal question in the case, and
the judgment of the court below is
Affirmned.
MR. JUSTICE BRA LEY was not present at the argument, and
took no part m the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
AP1PEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 111.

Argued March 12,13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

There being a dispute between the appellee, a commissioner of a Circuit
Court of the United States, and the appellant, respecting the official fees
of the former for services in criminal cases. Held,
(1) That the law of the State in which the services are rendered must be
looked at in order to determine what are necessary(2) That in Tennessee a temporary mittimus may become necessary, and
a charge for it should be allowed unless there has. been an abuse
of discretion in regard to it;
(3) That only one fee can be charged for taking the acknowledgment

U-NITED STATES v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)

(8)

of defendants' recognizances, but that one fee can be charged, as
an acknowledgment in such case is necessary;
That charges for drawing complaints and for taking and certifying
depositions to file are proper;
That a charge for " entering returns to process" is unobjectionable;
That a charge for "writing out testimony" is allowable;
That the items for fees for dockets, etc., which were allowed on the
authority of United States v. Wallace, 116 U. S. 398, decided at
October term, 1885, should have been disallowed, as the right to
make such charges was taken away by tie proviso in the deficiency
appropriation act of August 4, 1886, 24 Stat. 274, which, although
a proviso in a annual appropriation bill, operated to amend Rev.
Stat. § 847,
That a commission, acting judicially, has the discretion to suspend a
hearing, and that per diem fees for continuances should be
allowed.

Tins action was brought by the appellee, Ewing, in the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Tennessee, for the recovery of certain amounts claimed to be
due him for services as commissioner of the Circuit Court for
that district from January 3, 1887, to April 1, 1889. Performance of such services was admitted as charged, the district
attorney relying upon the illegality of the charges, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff for $841.05, from which
this appeal was taken by the United States. The items upon
the allowance of which error was assigned are stated in the
opinion of the court.
2Cr. John C. Chaney for appellant. 2Yr Asszstant Attorney
General Cotton was with him on the brief.
2Mr George A. Eing for appellee.
Al. JUsTicE BxowN delivered the opinion of the court.
The duties of commissioners of the Circuit Court are thus
defined in section 1014 of the Revised Statutes "For any
crime or offence against the United States, the offender may,
by any justice or judge of the United States, or by any commissioner of a Circuit Court to take bail, or by any
justice of the peace or other magistrate, of any State where

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opnion of the Court.

he may be found, and agreeably to the usual mode of process
against offenders in such State, and at the expense of the
United States, be arrested and imprisoned, or bailed, as the
case may be, for trial before such court of the United States
as by law has cognizance of the offence. Copies of the process
shall be returned as speedily as may be into the clerk's office
of such court, together with the recognizance of the witnesses
for their appearance to testify in the case." As this section
requires proceedings to be taken "agreeably to the usual mode
of process against offenders in such State," it is proper to look
at the law of the State in which the services in such case are
rendered, to determine what is necessary and proper to be
done, and inferentially for what services the commissioner is
entitled to payment. Unted States v 1?undlett, 2 Curtis, 41,
United States v Horton, 2 Dill. 94. We have held in United
States v Jones, 134 U S.483, that the approval of the commissioner's account by the Circuit Court of the United States
is przmaf acze evidence of its correctness, and in the absence
of clear and unequivocal proof of mistake on the part of the
court, should be conclusive, although the approval of such
court is not a prerequisite to the institution of a suit in a
Court of Claims, or, since the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat.
505, c. 359, in a Circuit or District Court, for the recovery of
the amount claimed. United States v Knox, 128 U S.230.
We proceed to the consideration of the several items involved
in this case
1. Items 1 and 2 were for temporary mittimuses, disallowed
by the comptroller as unnecessary, upon the ground that "the
warrant of arrest is sufficient to hold defendant or commit
until examination." Rev Stat. section 84,7, provides that
the commissioner shall have "for issuing any warrant
the same compensation as is allowed to clerks for like services;" and section 828 provides that clerks shall have $1 for
this service. So far as these items are for mittimuses issued
after the examination is concluded, to await the action of the
grand jury, no question is made as to the propriety of their
allowance, but it is claimed that, pending the examination, it
is the duty of the marshal to keep the prisoner in his custody

UNITED STATES v. EWIING.
Opnon of the Court.

under his warrant of arrest, and that the mittimus is therefore
unnecessary It appears, however, that under the laws of
Tennessee, upon the subject of criminal procedure, § 5877, the
magistrate may, "for good cause adjourn the examination
from time to time, without the consent of the defendant, not
exceeding three days at any one time, and, in such case, if the
offence is not bailable, or if the defendant does not give the
bail required, he shall be committed to jail =n the meantime,
or if the offence is bailable, the defendant may give bail in
such sum as the magistrate directs for his appearance for such
further examination." Code Tenn. 1884. As there axe no
Federal jails or other places of temporary confinement under
control of the marshal, such commitments must be made to
state jail, and it follows that a mittimus is proper if not
necessary to authorize the keeper of such jail to detain the
prisoner, as against a writ of habeas corpus from a state court.
Said Mr. Justice Story, speaking for this- court, in Randolph
v Donaldsor, 9 Cranch, 76, 86, "The keeper of a state jail is
neither in fact nor in law the deputy of the marshal. He is
mot appointed by, nor removable at the will of, the marshal.
When a prisoner is regularly committed to a state jail by the
marshal, he is no longer in the custody of the marshal, nor
controllable by him. The marshal has no authority to command or direct the keeper in respect to the nature of the imFor certain purposes, and to certain
prisonment.
intents, the state jail lawfully used by the United States, may
be deemed to be the jail of the United States, and that keeper
to be keeper of the United States. But this would no more
make the marshal liable for his acts than for the acts of any
other officer of the United States whose appointment is
altogether independent." We do not wish to be understood
as holding that a mittimus is necessary in all such cases to
authorize the detention of the accused, especially if the keeper
of the jail be, as is frequently the case, a deputy marshal of
the United States, but that it is within the discretion of the
commissioner to issue such writ, if in his opimon the safe custody of the prisoner requires this precaution, and if there be
no abuse of such discretion we do not feel at liberty to review
VOL. CXL--O

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

his action. Stafford v United States, 25 0. C1. 280. Nor do
we consider a mittimus necessary every time a prisoner is
taken out and returned to jail, pending his examination, since
an order of the court or the district attorney, under the statute,
would be a sufficient protection to the officer.
It is true that, by section 1030 of the Revised Statutes, "no
writ is necessary to bring into court any prisoner or person in
custody, or for remanding him from the court into custody,
but the same shall be done on the order of the court or district attorney, for which no fees shall be charged by the clerk
or marshal." This section relates, however, exclusively to the
action of the clerk in entering the order of the court or district attorney, and to the action of the marshal in transferring
the prisoner to and from his place of detention, and has no
reference whatever to his custody by a state officer pending or
following his examination.
No error is assigned by the attorney general upon the allowance of the third item.
2. Item 4 is "for more than one acknowledgment for defendants' recognizances." The exception to this item is well taken.
Revised Statutes, § 828, allows a clerk, "for taking an acknowledgment, twenty-five cents," but the taking of such acknowledgment in a criminal case by the accused and his sureties is a
single act, for which only one fee can be charged. Chuhcill
v United States, 25 0. Cl. 1.
3. The exception to the fifth item, which is "for all acknowledgments to defendants' recognizances," is overruled.
An acknowledgment is necessary to a judicial recognizance.
4. The allowance for drawing complaints, as "for taking
and certifying depositions to file," is a proper charge. While
the duty of a committing magistrate is to take complaints and
issue warrants upon them, which may perhaps imply that they
are written by the person making them, the general, if not the
universal, practice isfor the magistrate himself to put them in
writing, and the Tennessee Code evidently contemplates this
method of procedure in enacting as follows. See. 5845 "Upon
information made to any magistrate of the commission of a
public offence, he shall examine on oath the informant, reduce

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Opinion of the Court.

the examination to writing and cause the examination to be
signed by the person making it." Sec. 5846 "The written examination shall set forth the facts stated by the informant
tending to establish the commission of the offence and the
guilt of the defendant." It is eminently proper that the magistrate, who would naturally be presumed to understand the
requisites of a complaint better than the informant, who is
usually unlearned in law, should himself reduce it to writing.
Exception to this item is, therefore, overruled.
5. Item 7, "for entering returns to process," ]s unobjectionable, indeed, the Treasury Department seems to have receded
from its action in disallowing this item, and paid a portion of
the charge.
6. Item 8, "for writing out testimony," is clearly allowable.
Not only is this the general practice in every properly conducted commissioner's office, but the rule of the Circuit Court
for the Eastern District of Tennessee requires that each commissioner shall "keep a docket, showing the issuance of warrant,
upon whose complaint the same was issued, the nature of the
offence charged and the officer to whom delivered for execution. And when a warrant is returned, he will in all cases
write out substantially the evidence of each witness as given
before him, and return the same to the clerk of this court, for
the information of the district attorney" The local practice
of Tennessee also requires the testimony before the committing
magistrate to be reduced to writing. See 5887 "The evidence
of the witnesses shall be reduced to writing by the magistrate,
or by his direction, and signed by the witnesses respectively"
7. The 9th, 21st and 22d items for fees for dockets, indexes,
etc., appear to have been allowed upon the authority of ntJted
States v Wallace, 116 U. S. 398, in which case it was held by
this court, that under the provisions of Revised Statutes, §§
847 and 828, a commissioner, who, by direction of the court,
kept a docket with entries of each warrant issued, and subsequent proceedings thereon, made on the day of occurrence, was
entitled to the same fees allowed to the clerk of a court for
similar services. This case was decided in January, 1886. In
the deficiency appropriation bill passed in August of the same

OCTOBER TERM,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

year, 24: Stat. 256, 274, c. 903, it was enacted that "the following sums be, and the same are hereby, appropriated, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to supply
deficiencies in the appropriations for the fiscal year ending
June 30th, 1886, and for other objects hereinafter stated,
namely,
Judicial.
For fees of commissioners,
and justices of the peace acting as commissioners, fifty thousand
dollars Prowded, That for issuing any warrant or writ, and
for any other necessary service commissioners may be paid the
same compensation as is allowed to clerks for like services, but
they shall not be entitled to any docket fees." It is insisted
that, as this proviso is contained in an appropriation bill, it
should be limited in its application to -the appropriation for
that year, and should not be considered as a general inhibition
of all allowances of docket fees. The cases of United States v
Dzekson, 15 Pet. 141, and Mfints v rnted States, 15 Pet. 423,
are cited in support of this view The limitation and effect of
provisos in enacting clauses of a statute are considered in these
cases, and the rul.e declared, in the first of them, that "where
the enacting clause is general in its language and objects, and
a proviso is afterwards introduced, that proviso is construed
strictly, and takes no case out of the enacting clause which
does not fall fairly within its terms."
In the case of .1finss v Undted States, it is said by Mr. Xustice Story, p. 445 "It would be somewhat unusual to find
engrafted upon an act making special and temporary appropriations, any provision which was to have a general and permanent application to all future appropriations. Nor ought such
an intention on the part of the legislature to be presumed,
unless it is expressed in the most clear and positive terms, and
where the language admits of no other reasonable interpretation. The office of a proviso, generally, is either to except
something from the enacting clause, or to qualify or restrain
its generality, or to exclude some possible ground of misinterpretation of it, as extending to cases not intended by the
legislature to be brought into its purview A general rule,
applicable to all future cases, would most naturally be expected
to find -its proper place in some distinct and independent enact-

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
Opmion of the Court.

ment." In that case an act making appropriations, 4 Stat. 754,
c. 26, contained a proviso that "no officer of the army shall
receive any per cent or additional pay, extra allowance or
compensation, in any form whatsoever, on account of disbursing any public money, appropriated by law during thejresent
sesston, for fortifications, execution of surveys, works of inter
nal improvement, building of arsenals, purchase of public supplies of any description or for any other service or duty
This proviso was
whatsoever, unless authorized by law"
held to be limited to the appropriation for that year, and not
to be permanent in its operation.
In the case under consideration, if the proviso had been
simply that commissioners should not be entitled to- any
docket fees, we should have had little doubt that it would be
held as applying only to the $50,000 appropriated in the bill,
but as the proviso contains a substantial reenactment of the
clause of the Revised Statutes, § 847, fixing the fees for similar
services, with the prohibition against docket fees tacked thereto
as an amendment, we find it impossible to give effect to the
whole proviso without construing it as expressing the intention of Congress to amend that clause of § 847. The language
of that clause is "For issuing .any warrant or writ, and for
any other service, the same compensation as is allowed to
The language of the proviso is
clerks for like services."
writ and for any other necessary
or
warrant
any
issuing
"For
paid the same compensation as
be
service commissioners may
but they shall not be
services,
is allowed to clerks for like
entitled to any docket fees." The repetition of this language
was obviously useless and nugatory, unless upon the theory
that prohibition of docket fees was intended as an amendment
to it, since, by § 847, commissioners were already to be paid
the same compensation as clerks for like services. Indeed, it
seems highly improbable that Congress should put the fees of
commissioners upon the same basis as those of clerks, with the
exception of docket fees, and make it a mere temporary expedient applicable only to the appropriation for a single year,
when the same reasons would continue to exist for making it
of permanent application. A majority of the courts in which

OCTOBER TERMf, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

this question has arisen have adopted this view

Fars v

United States, 23 0. Cl. 374, Strong v United States, 34 Fed.
Rep. 17, .AMKintstry v United States, 34 Fed. Rep. 211,
Thornley v United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 765, Calvert v
United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 762, Crawford v United, States,
40 Fed. Rep. 446, Goodreh v Uneted States, 42 Fed. Rep. 392.
8. Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 are for per diem fees in various
cases where continuances were granted at the request of the
defendant. While it is doubtless the duty of the commissioner
to make as speedy a disposition of cases as is possible, consistent with a due regard for the interests of the government and
the protection of the accused, we held in United States v
Jones, 134 U-T.S. 483, that in hearing and deciding upon criminal charges he acted in a judicial capacity, and we have no
doubt he is invested with a discretionary power to suspend
the hearing of a case where, in his judgment, a proper regard
for the interests of justice requires it. This item was properly
allowed.
These are all the items to the allowance of which exception
was taken by the government. It is true that a number of
items were rejected by the court below, which, upon the authority of United States v. .Jones, 134 U. S. 483, appear to
have been properly allowable, but as no appeal was taken by
the plaintiff from the disallowance of such items we do not
feel at liberty to consider them. United States v Hickey, 17
Wall. 9.
Die case will be remanded to the ]District Court with directons to vacate the judgment ]eretofore rendered, and enter
a new judgment in conformity to this opinion.

