OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

UIONTOWN BANK v. MACKEY
ERROR TO THE CIoUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

STATES FOR THE

No. 327. Submitted April 20, 1891.-Decided May 1, 1891.
A promissory note made by two persons, one as principal and the other as
surety, was endorsed for the accommodation of the principal by the
payee, who afterwards, by agreement m writing with the holder, " waives
presentment for payment, protest, notice of protest, and consents that
the payment thereof may be extended until he gives written notice to
the contrary." Held, that this authorized only an extension assented to
by both makers of the note; that an extension by agreement between the
holder and the principal, without the consent of the surety, discharged
the endorser; but that no agreement for an extension of time was shown
by the following facts
The holder having agreed with the principal
"to extend the credit upon renewal notes made by the same parties who
executed the original notes," and the surety being too sick to join in the
execution of new notes, the holder, at the principal's request, sent him
a statement of interest on the notes for four months, as well as blank
renewal notes to be signed by both makers when the surety should be
able to do so, and afterwards received such interest from the principal,
after the surety's death, not knowing he was dead, and expecting the
principal to procure and deliver renewal notes as before agreed.

Tns was an action brought September 14, 1886, by the
Bank of Umontown, a corporation of Kentucky, against David
J Mackey, a citizen of Indiana, as endorser of two promissory
notes for $5000 each, one dated July 20, and the other July
29, 1885, signed by the Mount Vernon -ill and Elevator Company and by George Naas, and payable to the defendant's
order at the plaintiff's bank in four months after date, with
interest at the rate of eight per cent yearly after maturity
until paid. The complaint contained four counts, two on each
note.
The first and third counts alleged that the note was in fact
signed by the company as principal and by Naas as surety,
and was endorsed by Mackey for the accommodation of the
company, and discounted by the plaintiff in July, 1885, that
on November 20, 1885, Naas being then ill of what proved to

UNIONTOWN BANK v. MNIAOICEY.
Statement of the Case.

be his last sickness, and by reason thereof being unable to
transact or consider any matter of business, as the defendant
well knew, the.company desiring to renew the note, procured
the defendant to sign and deliver to the plaintiff an instrument in writing, (set forth in full, one of which is copied in
the margin,' and the other differed only in the description of
the dates when the note was made and payable,) by which he
waived presentment for payment, protest and notice of protest of the note, and consented that the time for the payment
thereof might be extended until he should give notice to the
contrary in writing, that on December 29, 1885, -Naas not
haing recovered sufflieently to transact any business, or to
renew the note, or to consent to an extension of the time of payment thereof, the interest on the noteforfour months after maturity was _paid by the company, and the time for payment
thereof was extended for those four months, that Naas had
died, and that by force of the statutes of Kentucky (set forth
in the complaint and copied in the. margin2) the note was
placed on the footing of a foreign bill of exchange, and the
plaintiff was entitled to maintain its action, and that no part
of the note had been paid but the interest thereon, as above
stated.
To each of these counts the defendant demurred, and the
court sustained the demurrers.
The second and fourth counts were substantially like the
I This memorandum witnesseth that in the matter of a certain promissory
note for five thousand dollars, dated July 20, 1885, and due November 20-23,
1885, wherein the Mount Vernon Aiii and Elevator Company and George
Naas are makers and D. J. Mackey is endorser, the undersigned hereby
waives presentment for payment, protest, notice of protest, and consents
that the payment thereof may be extended until he gives written notice to
the contrary. Dated at Evansville, Indiana, this 20th day of November,
1885.
D. J. 'Mwimxy.
2 1,Promissory notes payable to any person or persons, or to a corporation, and payable and negotiable at any bank incorporated under any law of
this commonwealth, or organized in this commonwealth under any law of
the United States, which shall be endorsed to and discounted by the bank at
which the same is payable, or by any other of the banks in this commonwealth, as above specified, shall be, and they are hereby, placed on the same
footing as foreign bills of exchange." Gen. Stat. c. 22, § 21.

OCTOBER TERTM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

first and third, except in substituting, for the words above
printed in italics, an allegation (after setting forth the instrument of November 20, 1885) that "in consideration of the
agreements therein contained, this plaintiff did not cause the
said note to be protested for nonpayment, and consented that
it might be renewed, and forebore to sue thereon until after
the decease of said Naas," and an allegation that no part of
the note had been paid but the sum of $136.65 paid on
December 29, 1885.
To each of these counts the defendant filed an answer, admitting the making of the notes by the company as principal,
and by Naas as surety, and the defendant's endorsement
thereof for the accommodation of the company; and setting
up that on December 21, 1885, Naas died, leaving children,
that on December 24, 1885, an administrator of his estate was
appointed and qualified, and that on December 29, 1885, the
plaintiff, in consideraltion of the payment to it by the company of interest on the note for four months and three days
from its maturity, agreed with the company to extend the
time of payment of the note for that period, all of which was
done without the knowledge or consent of the defendant or of
the administrator of Naas. A replication was filed, a jury
was duly waived in writing, and the case was submitted upon
the issues of fact to the decision of the court, which made
the following findings of fact.
" When the notes in suit were about to mature, to wit,
November 20, 1885, the plaintiff having signified to the principal debtor, the mill and elevator company, its willingness to
extend the credit upon renewal notes made by the same parties who executed the original notes, but the surety, Naas,
being too sick to join in the execution of new notes, the officers of the mill and elevator company prepared and procured
the defendant , ackey to sign the writings set out in the complaint, waiving presentment, protest, etc., of the notes in suit.
"From this time until December 29, 1885, various communications, verbal and written, passed between the officers of the
plaintiff bank and the officers or agents of the mill and elevator company in respect to the renewal of these notes, includ-

UNIONTOWN BANK v. MACKEY.
Statement of the Case.

mg a letter of the latter, dated December 2, 1885, which is of
the tenor following ' Owing to Mr. George :Naas's continued
illness we have not as yet presented to him the matter of the
renewal of our paper. If you will kindly send us statement
of interest for four months, we will remit the amount, also
please send few blank notes, so that we can have them filled
out at earliest opportunity'
"In reply to said letter the plaintiff sent to the defendant
the blank notes filled out for four months, ready for signature,
and also a statement of the amount of interest, with the direction that the interest should be remitted along with the renewal notes.
"On December 21, Naas died intestate at his home in Mt.
Vernon, Indiana, leaving children, and on December 30, 1885,
William Louden was appointed administrator of his estate.
"On December 29, the mill and elevator company paid to
the plaintiff and the plaintiff received the sum of $273.30, as
and for the interest upon the notes in suit for four months on
each from the date of maturity -that is to say, from the 23d
and 29th days respectively of November, 1885, until the 26th
day of March and the 1st day of April, 1886, and being interest
in advance from December 29, 1885, until the last-named dates.
"When this interest was paid and received, the officers of
the bank were ignorant of the death of George Naas, and
still expected the mill and elevator company to procure and
deliver renewal notes as theretofore had been proposed.
Nothing was said, at the time, expressly in respect to an
agreement for an extension of time, nor was anything said to
qualify or affect the legal force of the payment and receipt of
the interest in advance. Neither the heirs nor the legal representatives of Naas knew of or ever afterwards assented to
this payment of interest, or to an extension of the time of
payment on those notes.
"The defendant Mackey neither at nor before the time
thereof had knowledge of this payment of interest, and never
afterwards did he assent to or ratify the transaction with a
knowledge that it had been done without the consent of the
heirs and of the representative of Naas."

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Upon the. facts specially found, the court concluded, as
matter of law, "that there was made an agreement for an
extension of time, as alleged inthe answer, whereby the hens
and representative of the estate of the surety, Naas, were
released from liability on the notes m suit, and this having
been done without the consent of the defendant Mackey, he is
also released from liability, and is entitled to judgment in his
favor upon the issues joined and for his costs."
Judgment was rendered accordingly for the defendant, and
the plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
.HP S. B. Vance for plaintiff in error.

.Mr G Y .enzies for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIFC GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

It being alleged by the plaintiff, and admitted by the defendant, that Naas, one of the makers of the notes in suit,
signed them as surety for the Mount Vernon Mill and Elevator
Company, the other maker, and that the defendant, Mackey,
endorsed the notes for the accommodation of that company,
there can be no doubt that an agreement between the holder
of the notes and the principal maker to extend the time of
payment for a definite time, without the consent of the surety,
would discharge him, and that such discharge of the surety,
without the consent of the endorser, would discharge the endorser also.
The agreement in writing between the holder and the endorser, as to each note, by which the endorser "consents that
the payment thereof may be extended until he gives written
notice to the contrary," evidently contemplated and authorized
only an extension of time which should neither discharge nor
increase the liability of any party to the note. It looked to
an extension consented to by both the makers of the note, and
leaving them both liable to pay it at the end of the extended
time, and not to an extension of time by agreement between
the holder and the principal maker only, which would dis-

UNIONTOWN BANK v.

ACKEY.

Opinion of the Court.

charge the second maker, being only a surety, and prevent the
endorser, upon paying the amount of the note, from having
recourse to him, as well as to the principal.
As the first and third counts alleged an extension of the
time of payment of the note by the holder by agreement with
the principal maker only, without any knowledge or consent
of the surety, the demurrers to those counts were rightly sustained.
But upon the second and fourth counts the case is presented
in a different aspect.
Each of these counts, without alleging either the receipt by
the plaintiff of any interest or other consideration from the
defendant, or any agreement to renew or extend the note for
a definite time, simply alleged generally that the plaintiff did
not cause the note to be protested for nonpayment, and consented that it might be renewed, and forbore to sue thereon
until after the death of the surety This was not an allegation
of a definite agreement to forbear to sue, but only of an actual
forbearance, which would not discharge a surety or an endorser.
The defendant evidently so understood the allegations of
these counts, for, instead of demurring to them, (as he had to
the other counts,) he answered, setting up a definite agreement between the plaintiff and the principal maker to extend
the time of payment of the note for four months from its
maturity, in consideration of the payment of interest on the
note during such extension of time.
But the special findings of fact wholly fail to support this
defence. From those findings it appears that, the plaintiff
having signified to the principal maker its willingness "to
extend the credit upon renewal notes made by the same parties
who executed the original notes," and the surety being too
sick to join in the execution of new notes, the plaintiff sent to
the principal maker, at its request, a statement of the interest
for four months, as well as blank renewal notes to be signed
by both makers when the surety should be able to do so, and
that such interest was paid by the principal and received by
the plaintiff after the surety's death, the plaintiff at that time
being ignorant of his death, and expecting that the principal
VOL. cXL-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

-would procure and deliver renewal notes as before proposed,
and nothing being then said as to an agreement for an extension of time, or as to the effect of the payment of interest.
No present agreement for an extension of time can be inferred
from the mere payment of interest under such circumstances.
The necessary conclusion from the facts found is, that the
plaintiff never agreed to extend payment of the old notes,
except upon receiving new ones signed by both makers, which
were never given, and that the payment of interest has no
effect upon the case, except, as admitted .m the complaint, by
way of deduction from the amount that the plaintiff is entitled
to recover.
Judgment-reversed, and case remanded with directions to
enter udgment for the palmtif on the second andfourth
counts.

EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY v.
CLEMENTS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 340. Argued April 23, 24,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.
A policy of insurance, executed in New York by a New York corporation
doing business in Missouri, upon an application signed in Missouri by a
resident of Missouri, made part of the contract, and declaring that it
"shall not take effect until the first premium shall have been actually
paid during the life of the person proposed for assurance," and which is
delivered, and the first premium paid, in Missouri, is, in the absence of
evidence of the company's acceptance of the application in New York,
a Missouri contract, and governed by the laws of Missouri.
The Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, §§ 5983-5986, establish a rule of
commutation upon default in payment of premium after two premiums
have been paid on a policy of life insurance, winch cannot be varied or
waived by express provision in the contract, except in the cases specified
in those statutes.

THIs was an action brought by Alice L. Wall, a citizen of
Missouri and widow of Samuel E. Wall, and prosecilted by

