OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

from which it had been removed was made subsequent to that
act, but prior to the act of February 25, 1889, the writ of
error was allowed on the 7th of June, A.D. 1889, subsequent
to the act of February 25, 1889.
A motion was made to dismiss the writ on the grounds (1)
That there was no jurisdiction to issue the same and no jurisdiction to take cognizance of the record filed herein, (2)
Because the judgment of the Circuit Court complained of,
remanding the cause to the District Court of Kueces County,
Texas, from which it had been removed for trial, was not a
final judgment and cannot be reviewed by this court.
.M' Philip B. Thompson and .3f J 2. VFale for the motion.
Mr Bethel Coopwood and .M John Hancock opposing.
PER CuRixir. The writ of error is dismissed upon the authority of Gurnee v Patnck County, 131 U. S. 141, Ithomond & -Danville Railroad Co. v Thouron, 134 U. S. 45.
Dsmissed.
BALL v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 1351. Argued April 10,1891.-Decided April 27,1891.

On the 4th of December, 1888, the clerk of the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, certified to the
Circuit Judge for the fifth circuit that the District Judge of that district
was "prevented by reason of illness from continuing the holding of the
present November term of the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and also the
coming terms of- said courts at Tyler, Jefferson and Galveston, in the
year 1889." Thereupon the Circuit Judge issued an order designating and
appointing "the judge of the Western Judicial District of Louisiana to
conclude the holding of the present November term of the District and
Circuit Courts for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and-also
to hold the coming terms of the District and Circuit Courts in said Eastern District of Texas, during the year 1889, and during the disability of
the judge of said district, and to have and exercise within said district
during said period, and during such disability, the powers that are vested

BALL v. UMNUTED STATES.
Statement of the Case.
by law in the judge of said district." On the 12th of 'March, 1889, Congress created a new division of the Eastern Judicial District of Texas,
the courts to be held at Paris, Texas, and with " exclusive original jurisdiction of offences" committed within a designated portion of Indian Territory attached to that district, and directed two terms to be held, one
in April, and one in October. 25 Stat. p. 786, c. 333, § 18. Under the
authority so given the judge of the Western District of Louisiana held
the Circuit Court at Paris in October, 1889, during which term persons
were tried and ionvicted of the offence of murder, committed in that part
of the Indian Territory; and on the following April term they were sentenced to death. Before that term commenced, the regular District Judge
of that district died. Held, that in holding the October term, the judge
acted as a judge dejure, and during the April term, if not de jure, as a
judge defacto, whose acts could not be attacked collaterally.
On a Sunday morning a jury returned a verdict of guilty against persons on
trial for murder, whereupon the court remanded them to custody to
await judgment and sentence. Held, that this was not a judgment, but
only a remand for sentence.
At common law it was essential in a trial for a capital offence, that the
prisoner should be present, and that it should appear of record that he
was asked before sentence whether he had anything to say why it should
not be pronounced.
An indictment for murder which fails to aver the time of the death is fatally
defective if found more than a year and a day after the death.
An indictment for murder which fails to aver the place of the death is also
fatally defective.
This writ of error was sued out on time.

By stipulation between counsel, an order made by the Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, on the 4th of December,
1888, was added to the record in this case, which order is as
follows:
"Whereas, it appears by the certificate of the clerk of the
District Court hereto annexed, that the Hon. Chauncey B.
Sabin, United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Texas, is prevented by reason of illness from continuing the
holding of the present November term of the District and
Circuit Courts of the United States for the Eastern District of
Texas, at Galveston, and also the coming terms of said courts
at Tyler, Jefferson and Galveston in the year 1889, and
whereas, in my judgment, the public interests require the
designation and appointment of a district judge from another

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

district within the circuit to hold the present and coming
terms of the District and Circuit Courts in said Eastern District during the disability of the judge of said district.
"Now, therefore, I, Don A. Pardee, Circuit Judge of the
Fifth Judicial Circuit, in pursuance of law, do hereby designate and appoint the Hon. Aleck Boarman, Judge of the Western Judicial District of Louisiana, to conclude the holding of
the present November term of the District and Circuit Courts
for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and also to
hold the coming terms of the District and Circuit Courts in
said Eastern District of Texas, during the year 1889, and
during the disability of the judge of said district, and to have
and exercise within said district during said period, and during
such disability, the powers that are vested by law in the judge
of said district.
"Witness my hand at Galveston, December 4, 1888.

"DoN A. PARiDEE, Ci uit Judge."
The certificate annexed was under the hand of "C. Dart,
clerk U. S. Dis. Court, Eastern Dist., Texas, at Galveston,"'
and the seal of the court, and set forth "that the Hon. Chauncey B. Sabin, United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Texas, is prevented by reason of illness from continuing the holding of the present November term of the
District and Circuit Courts of the United States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, and also the coming
terms of said courts at Tyler, Jefferson and Galveston, in the
year 1889."
The certificate and order were certified to by Mr. Dart,
December 22, 1890, and that they were filed by him December
4, 1888, and recorded on the minutes of the District Court in
the clerk's office.
At this time the Statute directed that the courts of the
Eastern Judicial District of Texas should be held twice in each
year at Galveston, Tyler and Jefferson. 20 Stat. 318, c. 97.
By section 18 of an act of Congress approved March 1, 1889,
25 Stat. 786, c. 333, § 18, two separate terms of the Circuit
Court at Paris in the same district were established, to be held

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

on the third Monday of April and the Second Monday of
October, and it was provided that "the Umted States courts
herein provided to be held at Paris shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction of all offences committed against the laws
of the United States within the limits of that portion of the
Indian Territory, attached to the Eastern Judicial District of
the State of Texas by the provisions of this act, of which
jurisdiction is not given by this act to the court herein
established in the Indian Territory," etc. By section 19 of
the same act it was provided that the judge of the Eastern
Judicial District should appoint a clerk of the court, who
should reside at the city of Paris, and H. H. Kirkpatrick was
appointed such clerk. The October term, 1889, of the Circuit
Court at Paris fell on the 14th day, being the second Monday,
of that month, and was opened and held by Judge Boarman,
assuming to act under the appointment of December 4, 1888,
no record of which appeared on the minutes of the court in
the clerk's office at Paris.
Upon the 17th of October, 1889, an indictment was returned
into the Circuit Court against the plaintiffs in error and one
M. F Ball, which set forth
"That one M. F Ball and one J. C. Ball and one R. E. Boutwell, whose names are to the grand jurors otherwise unknown,
late of the county of Pickens, in the Chickasaw Nation, in the
Indian Territory, in the district and circuit aforesaid, on the
twenty-sixth day of June, in the year of our Lord eighteen
hundred and eighty-nine, in said Pickens County, in said
Chickasaw Nation, in the Indian Territory, the same being
annexed to and constituting a part of the said Fifth Circuit,
and annexed to and constituting part of the Eastern District
of Texas, for judicial purposes, and being within the jurisdiction of this court, did unlawfully, fraudulently and feloniously, and with their malice aforethought, and with a certain
deadly weapon, to wit, a certain gun in the hands of the said
M. F Ball, J C. Ball and R. E. Boutwell, then and there
held, make an assault in and upon the body of one William
T. Box with said gun held as aforesaid, said gun being then

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

and there loaded and charged with gunpowder and leaden
balls, then and there held and used as aforesaid, the said M. F
Ball and the said J 0. Ball and the said R. E. Boutwell did
shoot off and discharge the contents of said gun in and upon
the body of the said William T. Box, inflicting thereon ten
mortal wounds, of which mortal wounds the said William T.
Box did languish, and languishing did die.
"And so the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oaths aforesaid, do say, that upon the day aforesaid, at the place
aforesaid, with said deadly weapon aforesaid, in the manner
aforesaid, and used as aforesaid, did unlawfully, feloniously
and with their malice aforethought, and the malice aforethought of each of them, did kill and murder the said William
T. Box, the said M. F Ball and J C. Ball and R. E. Boutwell, and each of them, being there, white men and not citizens of said Chickasaw Nation, or of the Indian Territory, or
any nation or tribe thereof, contrary to the form of the
statutes of the United States of America in such cases made
and provided, and against the peace and dignity of the Uiited
States of America."
The defendants were arraigned on the 30th of October, and
after moving for separate trials, which were denied, pleaded
not guilty, and, a jury having been empanelled, trial was
entered upon and continued October 31 and November I and
2, on which last day the jury retired to consider of their
verdict. The record of Sunday, November 3, is as follows
"This day came the United States by her attorney, and
the defendants in their own proper persons and by attorneys
came, and the jury of twelve good and lawful men which
heretofore had been tried, empanelled and sworn as required
by law, and having heard the evidence and argument of
counsel and received the charge of the court, and having on
a former day of this term retired to consider of their verdict,
on this day brought into open court their verdict in words and
figures as follows, to wit
"'We, the jury, find the defendants J 0. Ball and R. E.
Boutwell, guilty as charged in this indictment, and we find
M[. Filmore Ball not guilty
"'Nov 3d, 1889.
A. P, Ball, Foreman.'

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

"It is therefore considered by the court that the defendants
J C. Ball and R. E. Boutwell are guilty as charged in the
indictment herein and as found by the jury, and it is ordered
that they be remanded to the custody of the marshal and be
by him committed to the county jail of Lamar County, to
await the judgment and sentence of the court. It is further
ordered that the defendant M. F Ball be discharged and go
hence without day"
A bill of exceptions to the action of the court in the admission of certain testimony over defendants' objection, was taken
on the 31st of October, and is referred to as "No. 1."
On the 15th of November, 1889, a motion "for a new trial
and to arrest the judgment" was filed, which, among other
causes, assigned error as set forth in the bill of exceptions just
referred-to, and also error as shown by bill of exceptions No. 2,
which does not appear in the record, and also error in instructing the jury on Sunday morning to return a verdict on that
day, as shown by bill of exceptions No. 3, which also does not
appear. A separate motion in arrest of judgment was also
filed November 15, 1889, but whether with the other motion is
not clear. This motion was not signed by the defendants, but
commenced "And now come the defendants, John Ball and
Robert Boutwell, in their own proper person and by their
attorneys," and assigned various reasons why judgment should
be arrested, and particularly that Judge Boarman had no lawful authority to act as the judge of the Circuit and District
Courts for the Eastern District of Texas, holding sessions at
Paris, because Judge Sabin was the duly and lawfully appointed
and qualified judge of said court, and Judge Pardee the duly
and lawfully appointed and qualified judge of the Fifth Judicial
Circuit, and that neither of them were in any manner disqualified from holding those offices or performing the duties thereof,
and that there was no evidence shown to the Circuit Judge or
the Circuit Justice that Judge Sabin was disabled to hold the
United States Circuit Court at Paris, begun and held on the
14th of October, 1889, or to perform the duties of his office,
nor had any such fact been made to appear by the certificate
of the clerk of said court under the seal of the court to the

OCTOBER TERt',

1890.

Statement of the Case.

Circuit Judge or Circuit Justice, nor was there any order of
such judge or justice designating and appointing Judge Boarman to discharge the judicial duties of Judge Sabin for the
United States courts holding sessions at Paris, nor was such
appointment filed in the clerk's office and entered on the
minutes thereof, etc.
On the same day the record states: "The motion of the
defendants for a new trial and in arrest of judgment herein
coming on to be heard, because it is the opinion of the court
that the law is against the motion, the same is overruled, to
which ruling of the court the defendants excepted." The
record then contains the following.. "By reason of the law
and the evidence and the verdict of the jury in this case, it is
ordered and adjudged that the defendants, Robert E. Boutwell
and John C. Ball, be executed by being hung, until each and
either are dead, according to the forms, delays and processes
provided in the laws of the United States. This done and
signed in open court Nov 15, 1889. Aleck Boarman, Judge."
This is endorsed, "Filed Nov 15, 1889. HF. 1H. Kirkpatrick,
Clerk," and is followed by this entry "This day the defendants in open court excepted to the sentence of the court this
day pronounced upon them."
A bill of exceptions was filed November 22, 1889, reciting
that on the 15th of November the motion of the defendants in
arrest of judgment came on to be heard and was read, and
"the court stated that such an order assigning & appointing
the Hion. Afeck Boarman to hold the Circuit & District Courts
referred to in said motion had been made, and was entered on
the minutes of the District and Circuit Courts of the United
States for the Eastern District of Texas, at Galveston, in the
State of Texas, and thereupon overruled.said motion," and the
defendants duly excepted. The bill of exceptions continued
"On the trial of the motion to arrest the judgment and sentence in this case the court did not refuse the defendants an
opportunity of showing, by evidence, that the order designating
myself as the judge to hold this term of the court in place of
Judge Sabin, was not of record at Paris, Texas. The court,
not prohibiting them from tendering evidence on that point,

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

said it was known to the court that a proper order authorizing
this judge to hold the terms of court in the District and Circuit Court of the Eastern District in Texas, Fifth Circuit, -was
executed, signed and properly recorded at Galveston, Texas,
which is one of-the places for holding courts in the Eastern
District. The court further held as above, because if it had
been proved that such an order was not on record in the
clerk's office at Paris, it would have had no weight in considering the allegations in the motion for arrest, because the order,
to the knowledge of the judge, had been properly issued and
was duly recorded or entered at Galveston in accordance with
his instructions."
On the 30th day of M:arch, Judge Sabin died, and Judge
Boarman held the stated term of the Circuit Court for the
Eastern District of Texas, beginning on the third Monday in
April, until the second day of June, 1890, when Judge Bryant
was sworn in as Judge Sabin's successor, and held court at
Paris thereafter. On the 5th of May, 1890, Judge Boarman
presiding, the United States attorney filed a motion that the
court fix a day for the execution of the defendants, John C.
Ball and Robert E. Boutwell, and on the 18th of July, 1890,
at Parts, the defendants were brought into court before Judge
Bryant, and each filed a motion in arrest of further proceedings and to vacate and set aside the'orders and proceedings
against him theretofore made, upon the principal ground of
the want of legal-authority on the part of Judge Boarman.
In support of the motion the record heretofore given was
introduced by each defendant. The motion was overruled as
to each, and each excepted, and a separate bill of exceptions
was duly allowed, signed and filed, and the court rendered
the same judgment against each, that against Ball being as
follows
"This day came the United States, by the United States
attorney, and the defendant in his own proper person and by
attorney appeared, and the United States attorney moved the
court to fix a day of execution of the defendant, John C. Ball.
And it appearing to the court that on the 15th day of November, 1889, during a former term of this court, the sentence of

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

death was pronounced upon the defendant, John C. Ball, for
the crime of murder, in compliance with the law and the verdict of the jury rendered at that term of the court, to wit, on
the third day of November, 1889, and that no petition for writ
of error to the Supreme Court of the United States has been
filed with the clerk of this court, and no other proper proceedings for a revision of the finding herein by the Supreme Court
of the United States have been begun It is therefore ordered,
adjudged and decreed by the court that the defendant, John
0. Ball, be now remanded to the custody of the marshal, to be
by him kept securely confined m the jail of Lamar County,
Texas, until Friday, the 19th day of December, 1890, when he
shall be taken therefrom by the marshal, and between the
hours of 12 o'clock mx. and 4 o'clock P.mx. of said 19th day of
December, 1890, be hanged by the neck until he, the said John
C. Ball, is dead, and the clerk of this court is ordered to issue
a death warrant in accordance with this sentence, and deliver
the same to the marshal, who shall execute the same according
to law"
Thereupon the defendants procured an order allowing sixty
days within which to apply for a writ of error, which writ was
allowed within the time given, and the cause brought to this
court.
_Mr 7okn E. Xenna (with whom was 1U' Charles TJ Faulkner on the brief) for plaintiff in error. 3hrJ 0. Hodges, 3Mr
F Hodges and MYr _F TV Ainor also
Austn Pollard,-Jr 1.
filed a brief for the same.
.A& Solicitor Generalfor defendant in error.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The following errors are assigned upon the record or specified in the briefs of counsel (1) That the indictment was
fatally defective in not alleging when and where the victim
died (2) That the court erred in denying defendants' motion

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinon of the Court.

for separate trials

(3) And in entering a joint judgment

against defendants and a joint sentence of death, and that the
alleged judgment and sentence were not entered according to
law, and the motion in arrest should have been granted (4)
That Judge Bryant should have granted the motions filed by
each of the defendants to vacate and set aside the prior proceedings (5) That the court erred in refusing to allow the
wives of the defendants to testify, "as shown by bill of exceptions No. 2 " (6) Because there was no record at Paris showing that Judge Boarman was ever designated, appointed and
authorized to hold the Circuit Court at Paris, except as shown
in the bill of exceptions filed November 22 (7)That Judge
Boarman -had no legal authority to hold court at Paris (8)
That the only judgment ever rendered against defendants was
entered of record on Sunday, November 3, and was void for
that reason (9) That no judgment in legal form has ever
been entered adjudging defendants guilty of murder (10)
That the alleged judgment of November 15 was no judgment
(11) That Judge Bryant had no power to hold any part of
the April term, 1890, at Paris, because Judge Boarman held
the first part of that term without authority (12) That the
court erred in admitting certain testimony, as shown by bill of
exceptions No. 1.
The original appointment of Judge Boarman to hold terms
of the District and Circuit Courts for the Eastern District
of Texas was made by the Circuit Judge, December 4, 1888,
under section 591 of the Revised Statutes, on account of the
disability of Judge Sabin, upon the certificate of the clerk
at Galveston, and related to the November term, 1888, at Galveston, and the coming terms at Tyler, Jefferson, and Galveston, in the year 1889, and was luly filed in the clerk's office,
and entered on the minutes of the District Court, at Galveston.
The statute of March 1, 1889, provided for two terms of the
Circuit Court, at Paris, in that district, and Judge Boarman
held the October term, 1889, at that city, apparently under
the same appointment, no certificate of disability having been
made by the clerk at Paris, and no new appointment having
been filed or recorded there, as, indeed, was the fact as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

appointment of December 4, 1888. Under section 596, Revised
Statutes, the Circuit Judge, whenever, in his judgment, the
public interest so required, could designate and appoint, in the
manner and with the powers provided in section 591, the District Judge of any judicial district within his circuit, to hold
the District or Circuit Court in place of, or in aid of, any other
District Judge within the same circuit. This section contemplates that the appointment made under it should state what
court the appointee was to hold, and that it was in place of
the judge of the District Court, or in aid of him, and that the
appointment should be filed and entered on the minutes, as
provided in section 591.
Under section 602, when the office of judge of any District
Court is vacant, all process, pleadings and proceedings pending before such court were continued, of course, until the next
stated term after the appointment and qualification of his successor, except when that term might be held as provided in
section 603. By the latter section, when the position of District Judge was vacant in any District Court in the State containing two or more districts, the judge of the other, or of
either of the other districts, might hold the District Court or
the Circuit Court in case of the sickness or absence of the other
judges thereof, in the district where the vacancy occurred.
It was the opinion of MVr. Attorney General Black that the
power to designate a District Judge to hold court in case of
disability under section 591, as it originally existed in the act
of July 29, 1850, 9 Stat. 442, c. 30, did not extend to the case
of a vacancy
9 Opinions Attys. Gen. 131. That opinion
was given on the 23d of January, 1858, and by act of Congress of August 6, 1861, 12 Stat. 318, c. 59, the provision was
made now embodied in section 603, Rev Stat.
The State of Texas contained three districts, and Judge
Boarman was not the District Judge of either. A vacancy
was created by the death of Judge Sabin, March 30, 1889, yet
Judge Boarman held the April term, 1890, until the succession of Judge Bryant. We are of opinion that the irregularities alleged did not place Judge Boarman, in holding the
October term, in any other position than that of a judge de

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

jure, and that as to the April term, he was judge de facto if
not de lure, and his acts as such are not open to collateral
attack. .Nortom v Shelby County, 118 U S. 425, 1 'e lTanimng, 139 U. S. 5041, Clark v Commonwealth, 29 Penn. St.
129, Fowler v Beebe, 9 Mass. 231, Commonwealth v. Taber,
123 Mass. 253, State v Carroll, 38 Connecticut, 449, .etth
v State, 49 Arkansas, 439, People v Bangs, 24 Illinois, 184.
This view disposes of the sixth, seventh, and eleventh errors
assigned, and requires us to consider whether the alleged judgment rendered by Judge Boarman on the 15th of November
so far constituted a final lawful judgment and sentence of
death against the defendants, that the writ of error cannot
be maintained, because not sued out within the time provided
by law We proceed, therefore, to examine that question.
By section 6 of the act of Congress of February 6, 1889, 25
Stat. 656, c. 113, it is provided that in all cases of conviction
of crime, the punishment for which provided by law is death,
tried before any court of the United States, a writ of error
may issue for the revision of the final judgment of such court,
if sued out upon a petition filed with the clerk of the court in
which the trial shall have been had, "during the same term
or within such time, not exceeding sixty days next after the
expiration of the term of the court at which the trial shall
have been had, as the court may for cause allow by order
entered of record." The writ of error in this case was sued
out within sixty days after July 18, 1889, that time having
been duly allowed by order entered of record, but it was not
brought during the October term of the Circuit Court, nor
within sixty days after the expiration of that term. The
record does not show when that was, but it must have been
prior to the third Monday of April, when the April term
commenced.
At common law no judgment for corporal punishment could
be pronounced against a man in his absence, and in all capital
felonies it was essential that it should appear of record that
the defendant was asked before sentence if he had anything
to say why it should not be pronounced. Rex v Earrzs, 1
Ld. Raym. 267, 2 Hale P C. 401, Com. Dig. Indictment, N,
VOL. CxL-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

2 Hawk. c. 48, § 22, Wharton, Or. P1. & Pr. §§ 54:9, 906,
Messner v People, 45 N. Y 1, -Dougherty v Commonwealth,
69 Penn. St. 286, Croker v State, 47 Alabama, 53, James v
State, 45 IMississippi, 572, State v Jennbngs, 24 Kansas, 642,
1 Bish. Cr. Pro. §§ 275, 1293, 1 Chit. Cr. Law, 699.
In Hamilton v The Commonwealth, 16 Penn. St. 129, Chief
Justice Gibson said "We find no entry that the prisoner was
demanded whether he had anything to say why sentence of
death should not be pronounced on him, the absence of which
was ruled in RZei v Geary, 2 Salk. 630, and Tke Zing v
Speke, 3 Salk. 358, to be fatal. In fact, there is nothing on the
docket to show even that the prisoner was present when he was
sentenced, except the supplementary memorandum that 'he
was present in court during every stage of the trial, from the
time of his arraignment up to the time when the sentence was
passed by the Honorable Ellis Lewis, president judge of the
court, on him. Indeed, the whole trial, from its commencement to its termination, was according to law' A record is
constituted of proper and legitimate elements set down in
their order, for it is certainly not law that all the gossip a
clerk or prothonotary writes down in his docket, ipso facto
becomes the very voice of undeniable truth. The judges of a
court of error must determine for themselves, and consequently on facts, instead of sweeping assertions. The premises to found a sentence of death are set forth in 1 Ch. Crim.
L. 720, and the form of the entire record is given in 4 Bla.
Com. App. 1, in which there is a demand of the prisoner ' if
he hath or knoweth anything to say wherefore the said justices
ought not, on the premises and verdict, to proceed to judgment
and execution against him,' together with his answer, that he
'nothing further saith, unless as he before had said.'
The forms of records are deeply seated in the foundations of
the law, and as they conduce to safety and certainty, they
surely ought not to be disregarded when the life of a human
being is in question. Our practice of rotation has excluded
experience from the county offices, and it would, perhaps,
be profitable were the presiding judge to superintend the
entries. It would at least prevent our judicial records from
becoming entirely barbarous."

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

The reasons for the rule of the common law, that the defendant should be personally present before the court at the
time of pronouncing the sentence, are compendiously given by
Mr. Justice Scholfield, in Fielden v The People, 128 Illinois,
595, to be that the defendant might be identified by the court
as the real party adjudged guilty, that he might have a
chance to plead a pardon, or move in arrest of judgment, that
he might have an opportunity to say why judgment should
not be given against him, and that the example of being
brought up for the animadversion of the court and the open
denunciation of punishment might tend to deter others from
the commission of similar offences. The same learned court
held, however, in Gannon v The People,127 Illinois, 507, that
while it was the better practice to call up the defendant to say
why he should not be sentenced, yet the omission to do so was
no ground for reversal in any case. But the great weight of
authority is the other way
On Sunday, the third of November, the record shows the
return of the verdict finding "the defendants, J. 0. Ball &
R. E. Boutwell, guilty as charged in this indictment, and we
find M. Filmore Ball not guilty," which is followed by these
words. "It is therefore considered by the court that the defendants, J 0. Ball and R. E. Boutwell, are guilty as charged in the
indictment herein and as found by the jury, and it is ordered
that they be remanded to the custody of the marshal and be
by him committed to the county jail of Lamar County to
await the judgment and sentence of the court. It is further
ordered that the defendant, A. F Ball, be discharged and go
hence without day'" If this could be regarded as the judgment of the court, it was void because entered on Sunday
31iackalley's Case, 5 Coke, 111, Swann v Broome, 3 Burrow,
1595, Baxter v People, 3 Gilm. (8 Illinois) 368, Chapman
v. State, 5 Blackford, 111. But it is clear that it cannot be
treated as a judgment, and is in effect nothing more than a
remand for sentence.
On November 15 this order was filed "By reason of the
law and the evidence and the verdict of the jury m this case,
it is ordered and adjudged that the defendants, Robt. E.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Boutwell and John C. Ball be executed by being hung, until
each and either are dead, according to the forms, delays and processes provided in the laws of the United States. This done and
signed in open court Nov 15, 1889. Aleck Boarman, Judge."
It will be perceived that neither in the verdict, nor the
order of November 3, nor that of November 15, is it stated of
what offence the defendants were found guilty, nor does it
appear, nor m our opinion is it fairly deducible from the
record, that the defendants were present when the latter order
was entered, and it is not pretended that they were asked, or
either of them, what they had to say why sentence of death
should not be pronounced upon them. It is true that the
record of November 15 has this entry "This day the defendants in open court excepted to the sentence of the court this
day pronounced upon them," but that admits fairly of the
construction that the exception was entered by their attorneys,
as does the motion in arrest, which though it states that the
defendants came in their own proper person and by attorney,
is signed only by the attorneys, the record being somewhat obscure as to the point of time during the day when this was done.
We do not think that the fact of the presence of the prisoners can by fair intendment be collected from the record, no
mention being made to that effect in the order, it not appearing therefrom that the sentence was read or orally delivered
to them, and the usual question not having been propounded.
On the 18th of July, 1890, Judge Bryant entered separate
orders, which recited that on the 15th day of November, 1889,
the sentence of death had been pronounced upon each defendant for the crime of murder, in compliance with the law and
the verdict of the jury rendered November 3, 1889, and it was
"therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed" that each defendant should be nanged on the day specified therein, and that
the clerk should issue a death warrant in accordance with the
sentence, and deliver the same to the marshal to execute.
Although the matters referred to amount chiefly, if not
wholly, to error merely, yet, in view of the character of the
objections, we must hold that the judgment against these
defendants did not become final until the entry of the orders

BALL v. UKITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

by Judge Bryant, and that as the writ of error was prosecuted
within the sixty days given by him for the purpose, it ought
not to be dismissed, and, retaining jurisdiction, we hold that
the orders of 1November 15, 1889, and July 18, 1890, must be
reversed for the errors indicated.
It may be that this leaves it open to us to remand the cause
with an order to the Circuit Court to proceed and give judgment on the verdict, but we do not care to discuss this, as we
are clear that the indictment is fatally defective, and that a
capital conviction, even if otherwise regular, could not be
sustained thereon.
The indictment charges an assault by the defendant upon
one William T. Box with a loaded gun, and the infliction of
mortal wounds by the discharge of its contents, "of which
mortal wounds the said William T. Box did languish, and
languishing died." This fails to aver either the time or place
of the death. By the common law, both time and place were
required to be alleged. It was necessary that it should appearthat the death transpired within a year and a day after the
stroke, and the place of death equally with that of the stroke
had to be stated, to show jurisdiction in the court. The controlling element which distinguished the guilt of the assailant
from a common assault was the death within a year and a
day, and also within the same jurisdiction. Bac. Ab. Indictment, G. 4, CommonwealtA v .7acloon, 101 Mass. 1, Chapman v The People, 39 Michigan, 357, 360, Riggs v State, 26
Mississippi, 51, People v Wallace, 9 California, 31, 1 Bish. Or.
Pro. 3d ed. §§ 407, 408, 2 Id. § 534, Wharton, Homicide, 2d
ed. §§ 845, 846.
In United States v Guiteau, 1 Mackey 498, the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia was held to have jurisdiction to try, convict anAd sentence the murderer of President
Garfield within the District 'of Columbia, although the death
happened in New Jersey, the felonious blow having been
struck in the District. The opinion of Mr. Justice Cox, upon
the trial, and those of Mr. Justice James and Mr. Justice
IHagner, speaking for the court in general term, learnedly
discuss the question. An application having been made to Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Justice Bradley of this court for a writ of habeas corpus, in
giving his reasons for denying it, he said "It is contended
that the murder was committed only partly within the District of Columbia and partly within the State of New Jersey,
and therefore cannot be said to have been committed within
the District of Columbia. By the strict technicality of the common law this position would probably be correct, although Lord
Chief Justice Hale, one of the greatest criminal lawyers and
judges that ever lived, uses the following language ' At common law,' says he, ' if a man had been.stricken in one county
and died in another, it was doubtful whether he were indictable or triable in either, but the more common opinion was that
he might be indicted where the stroke was given, for the death
was but a consequence, and might be found, though in another
county, and if the party died in another county, the body was
removed into the county where the stroke was given, for the
coroner to take an inquest super rnsun corporis.' This case
shows that in Lord Chief Justice Hale's opinion the principal
crime was committed where the stroke was given, and that
when the production of the dead body gave the jury ocular
demonstration of the corpus delicti, the difficulty of jurisdiction was overcome. But to remove the doubt as to the power
of jurors to try such a case, it was enacted by the statute 2 and
3 Edward VI, c. 24, that the murderer might be tried in the
county where the death occurred, and to remedy the difficulty
where the stroke, or the death, happened out of England, it
was enacted by a subsequent statute, 2 George II, c. 21, that
the trial might be in the county where the stroke was given if
the party died out of the realm, or where the death occurred,
if the stroke was given out of the realm, this, in effect, making
the murder a crime in the county in which either the stroke was
given or the death occurred. These statutes, as the Supreme
Court holds, and as their reasoning satisfactorily shows, were
in force in M aryland in 1801, when the Supreme Court was organized, and by the organic act of Congress became laws of
the District of Columbia.. If, therefore, the District had continued a part of the State of Maryland, with those laws in
'force, and if the murder in question had taken place exactly

BALL v. UNITED STATES.
Opimon of the Court.

as it did, it would have been considered a murder committed
within the State of Maryland and within the county out of
which the District was carved, and would have been indictable and triable in such county When therefore Congress, in
1801, conferred upon the courts of the District jurisdiction to
try all crimes and offences committed within the District, it
gave jurisdiction to try the murder of which the prisoner has
been found guilty, the present law being a mere codification of
that enactment: For the same reason the crimes act of 1190,
when it came to operate upon the District, became applicable
to such a murder."
This subject received elaborate consideration in Common,wealth v Afacloon, supra, where all the common law authorities are cited, and the conclusion reached that the inquiry is
properly determined by the existence of statutory provisions.
See also In re Palliser,136 U. S. 257, 265, and cases cited.
ash.
In United States v .X Gill, 4 Dall. 426, S. C. 1
0. 0. 463, Mr. Justice Washington and Judge Peters had no
difficulty in holding that, to constitute the crime of murder
on the high seas, the mortal stroke must be given and the
death happen there, Congress not then having provided for
such a case. And see United States v A'mstrong, 2 Curtis,
4,46 , lnited States v Davis, 2 Sumner, 482, 485.
By the Constitution, the accused in all criminal prosecutions
has the right to be tried by an impartial jury of the State and
district wherein the crime shall have been committed, but,
when not committed within any State, the trial shall be at
such place or places as Congress may by law have directed.
Art. III, sec. 2, Amend. Art. VI.
By section 5339 of the Revised Statutes, it is provided that
within any fort,
"every person who commits murder
arsenal, dock-yard, magazine or in any other place or district
of country under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
shall suffer death."
States
Sec. 731 provides "When any offence against the United
States is begun in one judicial district and completed in another, it shall be deemed to have been committed in either, and
may be dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined and punished

OCTOBER TERMf,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

in either district, in the same manner as if it had been actually
and wholly committed therein." If this section is applicable
to the crime of murder, it certainly could not apply if the
stroke were given in one district and the death ensued in
some other country than the United States.
The accused is entitled to be informed of the nature and
cause of the accusation against him, and jurisdiction should
not be exercised when there is doubt as to the authorityto
exercise it. All the essential ingredients of the offence charged
must be stated in the indictment, embracing with reasonable
certainty the particulars of time and place, that the accused
may be enabled to prepare his defence and avail himself of his
acquittal or conviction against any further prosecution for the
same cause. Hence, even though these defendants might have
been properly tried in the Eastern District of Texas, if the
fatal stroke were inflicted there, though the death occurred
elsewhere, yet, nevertheless, the averment of the place of
death would still remain essential.
And while it may be conceded that as this indictment was
found on the 17th of October, 1889, and the day of the assault
is fixed as on the 26th of June of that year, and it is asserted
that Box died, the failure to aver the time of death is not
fatal, we hold that the omission to state the place is so. By
section' 1035 Rev Stat. a party may be found guilty of any
offence the commission of which is necessarily included in that
with which he is charged in the indictment, or may be found
guilty of an attempt to commit the offence so charged. The
verdict found the defendants guilty as chatged, and the or'der
of November 15 used no other language. Defendants were
well charged with assault, but not with murder, and the verdict must be held to have related only to that which was well
charged, upon which no such judgment as that before us can
be sustained.
Tey udgments are reversed and the cause remanded,,wit a direction to quash the sndictment, andforsuch furterroeedmngs z relationto the defendants as toyustwe may aypertazn.
MR. JUSTIcE GRAY and MR. JusrcE BR-EwER did not hear
the argument and took no part in the decision of this case.

