HARPER COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROSE.

71

Statement of the Case.

HARPER COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. ROSE.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 284.

Submitted April 2, 1891.I-Decided April 27, 1891.

The filing of an unverified general reply to a verified answer in Kansas,
does not admit the truth of the statements in the answer if it was not
incumbent on the plaintiff to file it.
The question of the fraudulent organization of Comanche County in Kansas
was fully considered by this court in Comanche County v. Lewis, 133
U. S. 198, and is no longer open.
The validity of bonds such as are sued on m this case was settled by the
decisions in Lewis v Commisswners, 105 U. S.739, and Cornanche County
v. Lewis, 133 U. S. 198.

THIS was an action on twenty bonds and a large number of
interest coupons attached, issued by Harper County, Kansas,
December 1, 1873, for the purpose of raising the necessary
funds to build a court-house. The bonds and coupons were in
form like the following, differing only as to their numbers
Q

" UNITED STATES OF AmERIoA, State of Eansas.

Dollars, 500.
"Number 1.
"Court-Hlouse Bond of -HarerCounty, State of Kansas.
"Know all men by these presents that the county of Harper, in the State of Kansas, acknowledges itself to owe and
promises to pay to bearer five hundred dollars, lawful money
of the United States of America, on the first day of December,
A.D. eighteen hundred and eighty-three, at the National (500)
Park Bank, in the city of New York, with interest at the rate
of ten per cent per annum, payable semi-annually on the first
days of June and December of each year, on the surrender of
the annexed coupons as they become due, at said National
Park Bank in the city of New York.
"This bond is one of a series of fifty bonds, of five hundred
dollars each, issued for the purpose of building a court-house
in said county in pursuance of and m accordance with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

vote of a majority of over three-fifths of the qualified electors
of said county of Harper, at an election held for that purpose,
as required by law, on the 4th day of November, A.D. 1873.
"In testimony whereof, the board of county commissioners
of said county have caused this bond to be signed by the
chairman of said board and by the county clerk of said county,
and to be sealed with the seal of said county, and to be registered, as required by law, at Bluff City, the county seat of
said county, this the first day of December, A.D. 1873.
"[SEAL.]

"N.

W

WEAVER,

" Chatrman Board of County Commsstoners.

"Attest. G. H. WAL.KE., County Clerk of -HatperCounty."
"25
The County of Harper, State of Kansas,
25
"Will pay to the bearer, at the National Park Bank, in the
city of New York, on the first day of (4) December, 1875,
twenty-five dollars, for six months' interest due on court-house
bond. No. one.
N. IV WEA vER,
"Chazrman Board of County Commissoners.

"G. H. WALKER, County Clerk."
Upon each bond was the following certificate of registration, signed and sealed by the auditor of state
"Court-House Bond of Harper County, State of Kansas.
"I, D. W Wilder, auditor of the State of Kansas, do hereby
certify that this bond was regularly and legally issued, that
the siagnatures thereto are genuine, and that such bond has.
been duly registered in my office in accordance with an act of
the legislature entitled IAn act to authorize counties, incorporated cities and municipal townships to issue bonds for the
purpose of building bridges, aiding in the construction of railroads or other works of internal improvements, and providing
for the registration of such bonds, the registration of other
bonds, and the repealing of all laws in conflict therewith,'
approved March 2, 1873.
"Witness my hand and official seal this 12th day of March,
1874.
"D W WLDER, Auditor of State."

HIARPEI COUNTY C0MAIISSIONERS v. ROSE.

73

Statement of the Case.

These bonds were purchased by the plaintiff, in open mar
ket, before maturity, for a valuable consideration, without
notice of any defect in their issue or in any of the proceedings
relating to the organization of the county issuing them, and
not having been paid at maturity, this suit was brought to
enforce their payment.
There was a demurrer to the petition setting up the statute
of limitations of Kansas, as to certain of the coupons, which
the court sustained. The defendant then answered. The
answer consisted of a general denial and the following special
denials and averments It denied (1) that at the date the
bonds were issued, or at any time prior thereto, the county of
Harper was a body corporate or politic capable of issuing any
such bonds, (2) that at said date N. W Weaver was chairman
of the board of county commissioners, or that G. H. Walker
was county clerk, of that county, (3) the execution of the
bonds and coupons sued on, (4) that at the date when the
bonds were issued there was any person or persons or any
body corporate or politic in Harper County that had any
authority to issue said bonds and coupons, and (5) that the
bonds and coupons were ever registered m Harper County, as
required by law, or that there was ever any election held as
to their issue, as required by law It then averred that all
papers, acts and statements relating to the attempted organization of Harper County, on the 20th of August, 1873, and
everything contained therein, were false, fraudulent and
forged, and that said bonds and coupons, and all acts as
to their attempted issue, were false, fraudulent and forged.
The plaintiff filed a reply, and issue being joined, the case
went to trial before Judge Foster and a jury On the trial
the plaintiff, to maintain the issue on his part, gave evidence,
which was undisputed, to prove that he was a bona ide holder
of the bonds and coupons sued on, having purchased them
before maturity, for a valuable consideration, in open market,
in the city of St. Louis. He also introduced in evidence
properly exemplified copies of records in the office of the
secretary of State of Kansas, relative to the organization of
the county of Harper in 1873, showing that that organization

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

had been officially recognized by both the executive and the
legislative departments of the government of the State. The
bonds and coupons sued on were also introduced in evidence
by the plaintiff. To the introduction of the foregoing evidence the defendant at the time objected, but the objections
were overruled and exceptions were saved.
The defendant to maintain the issue on its part offered to
introduce certain oral evidence tending to disprove the organization of the county in 1873, or at any time prior to the issue
of the bonds and coupons in suit, and also offered to prove, by
the same kind of evidence, that at the date of the issue of the
bonds and coupons neither N. W Weaver, who signed them
as "Chairman Board of County Commissioners," nor G. 11.
Walker, who attested them as "County Clerk," lived in the
territory comprised in Harper County To the introduction
of this evidence the plaintiff objected, and the court sustained
the objections, whereupon exceptions were taken.
The jury, under the direction of the court, found a verdict
in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $17,645, upon which
judgment was rendered. A motion for a new trial having
been overruled, this writ of error was sued out.
.r1
1Th
illiam _. Earle and Jib' William T S. Curtis for
plaintiff in error.
. JRossmgton, ir' Charles B. Smith and ilfr
Mri
-Dallasfor defendant in error.
M . JusTicE

.J

LMn&A, after making the foregoing statement

of the case, delivered the opinion of the court.
A preliminary question of pleading raised by the defendant
meets us at the threshold of our investigations. It is urged
that, as the answer was verified by the oath of the defendant,
and as the reply was not verified by any oath of the plaintiff,
therefore the verified answer must be taken as true, under section 108 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Kansas, as amended
by sec. 1, c. 61, Kansas Laws of 1886. That ection is as
follows

HARPER COUNTY COMM\ISSIONERS v. ROSE.

75

Opinion of the Court.
"SEC. 108. In all actions, allegations of the execution of
written instructions and endorsements thereon, of the existence
of a corporation or partnership, or of any appointment or
authority, or the correctness of any account, duly verified by
the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney, shall be taken
as true unless the denial of the same be verified by the affidavit of the party, his agent or attorney"
We do not think this section has any application to the
question at issue. The answer in this case was nothing more
than a general denial of the legality of the bonds and coupons
sued on, for the reasons therein stated, and it was not incumbent
upon the plaintiff to file any reply at all. This section of the
code might have applied against the defendant had its answer
not been verified. Moreover, suppose all that is claimed by the
answer be taken as true, we do not see how it can operate to
defeat the rightof the plaintiff to recover on the bonds in suit.
At the date the bonds were issued, duly organized counties
in the State of Kansas had ample authority to issue bonds for
the purpose of internal improvements. Statutes of 1868, c. 52
(now Compiled Laws of 1885, p. 509), act of March 2, 1872,
sec. 1, Comanche County v Lewis, 133 U S. 198. Indeed,
this proposition does not appear to be disputed.
It is also admitted by the plaintiff in error that questions
affecting the fraudulent organization of the county in 1873 are
no longer open, for, while that organization was confessedly
fraudulent, it was recognized and validated by the legislative
and executive departments of the State of Kansas in various
ways, and was directly passed upon by the Supreme Court of
the State in The State ex 'el. v Stevens, 21 Kansas, 210. In
that case the proceedings relative to the organization of Iarper County in 1873 were reviewed by the Supreme Court of
Kansas, and it was held that, although the original organization of the county was fraudulent, yet, as the county had
a de facto organization, as the records of such organization
appeared regular and valid upon their face, and as the governor recognized and proclaimed such organization, the subsequent recognition of the validity of it by the legislature of
the State made the same valid and binding. See also Comane/ie County v Lewis, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

These bonds having been issued while that organization of
the county was in existence, and reciting that they were issued
"in pursuance of and in accordance with a vote of a majority
of over three-fifths of the qualified electors" of the county
"as required by law," and the auditor of the State having
certified that they were "regularly and legally issued, that
the signatures thereto are genuine, and that such bond has
been duly registered," in accordance with the law of the State,
are the valid obligations of the county in the hands of bona
,fde purchasers, for value, before maturity Comanche County
v Lewms, sz~ra, ewts v. Commmssoners, 105 U. S. 739, 749.
There is no material distinction, in principle, between this
case and the cases just cited. Comanche County v Lewts involved the validity of bonds similar to these in suit, which had
been issued by Comanche County, and Lewis v Commisstoners involved the validity of similar bonds issued by Barbour
County, Kansas. The bonds in suit in both of those cases
were held valid and binding upon the respective counties,
and the reasons for such rulings were very fully and clearly
stated in the opinions therein. This case is ruled by those,
and the judgment below is
.Aflrmed.

.£ET!A LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. WARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 1388.

Argued iarch 4, 5, 1891. - Decided Aprii 27, 191.

When the trial court has given the substance of a requested charge to the
jury, it is under no 'obligation to repeat it in the requested language.
When evidence offered by one party at the trial tends to discredit that offered
by the other, it is for the jury to weigh and decide, under proper instructions from the court.
In an action to recover on a policy of life insurance where the defence
is that the death was caused by intemperance, which by the terms of the
policy exempted the company from liability, it is no error in the court to
instruct the jury that they are at liberty to reject the diagnosis of a

