SCOTLAND COUNTY COURT v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

SCOTLAND COUNTY

COURT v. UNITED

STATES

ex rel. HILL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURL
No. 298.

Argued April 9, 10,1891.-Decided April 20,1891.

When the bonds of the plaintiff in error which form the basis of the subject
of controversy were issued, there existed a power of taxation sufficient
to pay them and their accruing coupons, which power entered into and
formed part of the contract, and could not be taken away by subsequent
legislation.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.L, Johm C. Moore for plaintiffs in error.
- F 7T HugAes for defendant in error.
Overall was with him on the brief.
MR. JusucE

HARLAN

.r

,Tohn H.

delivered the opinion of the court.

In the year 1879, William ill, the testator of the defendants in error, obtained a judgment in the court below against
the county of Scotland, Missouri, for the sum of $16,944, the
amount of certain coupons of bonds bearing date September
1, 1870, and issued to the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, a corporation created by the consolidation of
the Alexandria and Nebraska City Railroad Company of
Missouri (originally the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company) with the Iowa Southern Railway Company of Iowa.
The bonds recited that they were issued under and pursuant
to an order of the Scotland county court for subscription to
the stock of the Missouri, Iowa and Nebraska Railway Company, "as authorized by an act of the general assembly of
the State of Missouri, entitled ,-An act to incorporate the
Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company,' approved
February 9, 1857." Laws of Missouri, 1856-1857, 94.

OCTOBER TERMA, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

The consolidation above referred to took place under a
general statute of Missouri, approved March 2, 1869, (Laws of
M issouri, 1869, p. 75,) authorizing the consolidation of railroad companies in that State with companies owning connecting railroads in adjoining States. The fourth section of that
act is as follows "Any such consolidated company shall he
subject to all the liabilities, and bound by all the obligations
of the company within this State, which may be thus consolidated with one in the adjacent State, as fully as if such
consolidation had not taken place, and shall be subject to the
same duties and obligations to the State, and be entitled to
the same franchises and privileges under the laws of this
State, as if the consolidation had not taken place."
The tenth section of the act incorporating the Alexandria
and Bloomfield -Railroad Company provided "Said company
shall, in all things, be subject to the same restrictions, and
entitled to all the privileges, rights and immunities which
were, granted to the North Missouri Railroad Company by an
act entitled IAn act to incorporate the North Missouri Railroad Company,' approved March 3, 1851, so far as the same
are applicable to the company hereby created, as fully and
completely as if the same were herein reenacted." Among
the rights and privileges thus acquired by the Alexandria and
Bloomfield Company, and which passed to the consolidated
company, are those enumerated in the fourteenth section of
the act incorporating the North Missouri Railroad Company,
in these words "It shall be lawful for the county court of
any county in which any part of the route of said railroad
may be, to subscribe to the stock of said company, and it may
invest its funds in the stock of said company and issue the
bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock thus subscribed, and to take proper steps to protect the interests and
credit of the county" Laws of Missouri, 1851, pp. 483, 486.
At the first trial of the action there was a verdict and judgment against the county That judgment was reversed for
error in excluding evidence offered in its behalf, and the case
was remanded for a new trial. Scotland County v Hill, 112
U. S. 183, 185. At the next trial there was a judgment

SCOTLAND COUNTY COURT v. HILL.
Opinion of the Court.

against the county for the above amount, which was affirmed
by this court. Scotland County v flill, 132 U. S. 107.
The present action was by information for a mandamus
against the county court of Scotland County and the judges
thereof, requiring the levy and collection of a tax for the payment of this judgment. The alternative mandamus recited
the judgment, and the failure of the county to pay it, or by its
proper officers to levy and collect a tax for its payment, and
commanded the county court and the judges thereof to forthwith levy and cause to be collected upon all the real estate
and personal property in the county subject to taxation a tax
for the payment of the judgment, with interest and costs, including the costs of this proceeding, and to pay the same
according to law
To this mandamus the county court and its judges made a
long return, the object, apparently, of- the greater part of
which was to reopen the questions involving the authority of
the county to issue the bonds and coupons in question. But
the material parts of the return are as follows ":Respondents
aver that neither at the date of the execution of the coupons
in relator's judgment merged, nor at any period prior to said
date, nor at the present time, was there or is there now any
law in force in the State of Missouri requiring or authorizing
the county court of Scotland County, .in the State of Missouri,
to levy any special tax upon the taxable property of or .in said
county, in the State of Missouri, for the purpose of paying the
judgment in said relator's writ described. Respondents aver
ihat they did at the -May term, 18587, of the county court of
Scotland County, in the State of Missouri, make and cause to
be entered upon the records of said court, (as will fully appear
from a duly certified copy of said order herewith filed, marked
'Exhibit A,' and made part of this return,) an order levying
upon all the property, real or personal, subject to taxation for
state purposes in said Scotland County, a tax for county purposes of one-half of one per cent upon each and every one hundred dollars of the assessed value of such property" It was
also averred in the return that during each year prior to 1887
similar levies had been made by the respondents or their pre-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opmlon of the Court.

decessors, namely, one-half of one per cent upon each one hundred dollars of the assessed value of property in the county,
that the judgment could only be paid out of taxes levied and
assessed for county purposes, that there were no funds, at the
time the return was made, with which to pay the judgment,
and that respondents would violate the law of the State if they
made a larger levy A demurrer to the return was sustained,
and the respondents electing to stand by their return, a judgment was entered in accordance with the prayer of the information. 32 Fed. Rep. 714.
Certain questions, arising out of the subscription by Scotland County to the capital stock of the Missouri, Iowa and
Nebraska Railway Company, and the issuing by its county
court of bonds in payment of such subscription, have been
closed by former adjudications. It has been heretofore determined that the power, of the county derived under the act of
February 9, 1857, from the charter of the North Missouri
Railroad Company, to subscribe, without a previous vote of
the people, to the capital stock of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company, was a privilege of that company
which passed, by the above consolidation, to the Missouri, Iowa
and Nebraska Railway Company, that the prohibition m the
constitution of Missouri of 1865 against municipal subscriptions to the stock of, or of loans of credit to, companies, associations or corporations, without the previous assent of twothirds of the qualified voters at a regular or special election,
limited the future exercise of legislative power, but did not
take away any authority granted before that constitution went
into operation, and that the subscription made by the county
court was binding, and the bonds issued in payment thereof
were valid. County of Scotland v Thomas, 91 U. S. 682, 693,
691, County of Balls v Douglass, 105 U. S. 728, Balls County
Court v Unted States, 105 U. S. 733, 734, Scotland County v.
Hill, 132 U S. 107, 111, and authorities there cited.
The only question, therefore, open for discussion m the present case is whether the tax which the order below required to
be levied and collected, namely, a tax sufflcient to pay Hill's
judgment, with interest and costs, was authorized by law

SCOTLAND COUNTY COURT v. HILL.
Opimon of the Court.

The contention of respondents is that when the bonds were
issued September 1, 1870, they had no power, under the laws
of Missouri, to levy a tax in excess of one-half of one per cent,
and, as in the year 1887, when this action was commenced,
and in previous years, the levies made by them and their
predecessors in office were up to that limit, they were without
power to make the additional levy required by the judgment
in this case. The court below held that, under the laws of
the State, when the bonds were negotiated the county court
had ample authority to levy such tax as was necessary to
pay them. The question thus presented is within a narrow
compass.
We have seen that the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad
Company was invested with all the privileges, rights and immunities granted to the North Missouri Railroad Company,
and that by the charter of the latter company the county court
of any county making a subscription to its stock, was authorized to issue bonds to raise funds to pay for the stock subscribed, "and to take proper steps to protect the interest and
credit of the county"
This power of the county court was a
right and privilege of the company in whose behalf it was to
be exercised. Now, was not the power "to protect the interest and credit of the county," in respect to bonds it had legally
issued for stock, a power to levy and collect a tax sufficient to
pay the bonds and the interest accruing thereon2 This question was answered in the affirmative in Balls County v United
States, 105 U. S. '33, 735, 736. That was a proceeding by mandamus to compel the county court to pay a judgment rendered
against Ralls County, Missouri, for the interest due on bonds
issued by that county in payment of a subscription to the stock
of the St. Louis and Keokuk Railroad Company, whose charter
provided (as did that of the Alexandria and Bloomfield Railroad Company) that it should "be lawful for the county court
of any county in which any part of the route of said railroad may be, to subscribe to the stock of said company," "and issue
the bonds of such county to raise funds to pay the stock thus
subscribed, and to take proper steps to protect the interest and
credit of the county" Laws of Missouri, 185 6-7, pp. 125, 132,

OCTOBER TER-M, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ยง 29. In that case, as in this, the county court insisted that
its power of taxation was limited to the levy of an annual tax
of one-half of one per cent on the taxable property in the
county, and, as that amount of tax had been levied at the times
provided by law, the duty of the court had been fully performed. On the other side it was contended that if the county
funds were not sufficient to pay the judgment the county court
should be required to levy and collect such tax as was necessary for that purpose. This court, speaking by Chief Justice
Waite, held that the creditor was entitled to any fund that
could be lawfully raised by the county to pay the judgment,
that the coupons carried with them into the judgment all the
remedies which in law formed a part of their contract obligations, that "when authority is granted by the legislative
branch of the government to a municipality, or a subdiviqion
of a State, to contract an extraordinary debt by the issue of
negotiable securities, the power to levy taxes sufficient to meet,
at maturity, the obligation to be incurred, is conclusively implied, unless the law which confers the authority, or some
general law in force at the time, clearly manifests a contrary
legislative intention. The power to tax is necessarily an ingredient of such a power to contract; as, ordinarily, political
bodies can only meet their pecuniary obligations through the
instrumentality of taxation" - citing Loan Assoczatzwon v
Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, and United States v -ew Orleans, 98
lT-.S.381. After referring to and distinguishing UnttedStates
v County of Afacon, 99 U. S. 582, in which it appeared that
the authority of the municipality to contract was burdened
with a special limitation upon its power of taxation, the court
proceeded "In the present case there is no such special limitation. The defence rests entirely on the power to tax to
'defray the expenses of the county,' which it has always been
the policy of the State to restrict. The county court was,
however, not only authorized to issue bonds, but to 'take
proper steps to protect the interest and credit of the county'
It would seem as though nothing more was needed. As the
commercial credit of the county, in respect to its negotiable
bonds, could only be protected, under ordinary circumstances,

BORAH v. WILSON.
Statement of the Case.

by the prompt payment of both principal and interest, at
maturity, and there is nothing to show that payment was to
be made in any other way than through taxation, it necessarily
follows that power to tax to meet the payment was one of the
essential elements of the power to protect the credit. If what
the law requires to be done can only be done through taxation,
then taxation is authorized to the extent that may be needed,
unless it is otherwise expressly declared. The power to tax in
such cases is not an implied power, but a duty growing out of
the power to contract. The one power is as much express as
the other. Here it seems to have been understood by the legislature that the ordinary taxes might not be enough to enable
the county to meet the extraordinary obligation that was to be
incurred, and so, without placing any restriction on the amount
to be raised, the county court was expressly authorized to do
all that was necessary to protect the credit of the county
The subscription was paid by the bonds, but the obligation to pay the bonds, principal and interest, when they matured was legally substituted."
All that was said in that case is applicable to the present
case, and places beyond question the power and duty of the
county court of Scotland to levy such tax as may be sufficient
to pay the judgment obtained by Hill, with interest and costs.
Judgment afflrned.

BORAH v. WILSON.
APPEAL FROMI THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 309. Argued and submitted April 15, 1891.-Decided April 20, 1891.

This case is affirmed upon the authority of Harterv. Kernochan, 103 U. S.
562, and other cases.

Tis was an action brought by citizens, owners of real estate and taxpayers in Wayne County, Illinois, against the

officers of that county to have certain issues of bonds of that

