OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

discrimination, in respect to such service, be made against any
class of citizens solely because of their race. The statutes of
iNew York regulating these matters do not, in any way, conflict with the provisions of the Federal Constitution, and if,
as alleged, they were so administered by the state court, in
appellant's case, as to discriminate against him because of his
race, the remedy for the wrong done to him was not by a writ
of habeas corpus from a court of the United States.
For the reasons stated in this opinion, and in Wood v Brush,
the judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE GRAY was not present at the argument and
took no part in the decision of this case.

ROGERS v. DURANT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 318. Submitted April 16,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

A bank check is a "bin of exchange" within the meaning of that term as
used in the Statutes of Iminois prescribing the term of five years after
the cause of action accrues, and not thereafter, as the time within which
an action founded upon it must be commenced.

Tins was an action of assumpsit brought by Henry J. Rogers,
January 26, 1884, against William F Durant and others, as
"surviving partners of the late firm of James W Davis and
associates," in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, upon twenty instruments in writiug, bearing various dates from April 12, 1869, to February
12, 1870. Durant alone was served with process.
The original declaration consisted of the common counts,
and was subsequently amended by the addition of special
counts upon each of the pieces of paper sued on, describing
eighteen of them as bills of exchange and two as banker's

ROGERS v. DUR -NT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

checks. All were payable at sight or on short time after date,
and it was admitted that more than five years had elapsed after
they became due before action was brought. The defendant
filed eight pleas, which were ordered to stand as pleas to the
amended declaration. The fourth plea was as follows "And
for a further plea in this behalf to said plaintiff's declaration
and each of the counts thereof the said defendant, William F
Durant, says actio non, etc., because he says that the said
several supposed causes of action, and each and all of them
in said plaintiff's declaration, and each of the several counts
thereof mentioned, are founded upon bills of exchange, and
that no cause of action has accrued upon any or either of said
bills of exchange, to the said plaintiff or the holder thereof,
within five years next before the bringing of this suit, as the
plaintiff hath above complained against him, the said defendant,
but that each and all of said supposed causes of action accrued,
if at all, after the tenth day of February, A.D. 184,9, and prior
to the fourth day of April, A.D. 1872, and this he is ready
to verify Wherefore he prays judgment," etc. To this plea
plaintiff interposed a general demurrer, which was overruled
by the court, and the plaintiff electing to abide by his demurrer, (the other pleadings being also at the same time disposed
of,) judgment was rendered for the defendant, and the cause
brought here on writ of error.
.AL

Davzd,J Wile for plaintiff in error.

I. Banker's checks are not bills of exchange. 3lerohants'
Bank- v State Bank, 10 Wall. 64,7, In Pe Brown, 2 Story,
502, -. lo-rmson v Bailey, 5 Ohio St. 13, S. C. 64 Am. Dec.
632, ffawley v Jette, 10 Oregon, 31, -Levy v .Laclede Bank,
18 Fed. Rep. 193, Campzwn v Gordon, 70 Penn. St. 474.
II. The Federal courts are not bound by the decisions of
the State where a question of general commercial law arises.
Boyce v Tabb, 18 Wall. 546, HUough v Railway Co., 100
U. S. 213, Williams v. Sujfolk Ins. Co., 13 Pet. 415, .Robinson v Comm. Ins. Co., 3 Sumner, 220, Oates v. Mathonal
Bank, 100 U. S. 239.

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

III. Banker's checks, not being bills of exchange, are properly classed as "other evidence of indebtedness in writing"
under the statute, and are not barred until the expiration of
sixteen years from their date. Gross' Statutes of Illinois,
Vol. 1, p. 430, Chapter 66, Sects. 17-0.
.Mfr Charles Hf. lawrence for defendant in error.
MR.

JusTicE

FiF.D, after stating the case~delivered the opm-

ion of the court.
If the fourth plea was sufficient in law to bar the maintenance of this action, it is not necessary to set forth the other
pleadings and the action bf the court thereon.
The first and second sections of an act of the General
Assembly of the State of Illinois, entitled "An act to amend
the several laws concerning limitation of actions," approved
November 5, 1849, (Laws Ill. 2d Sess. 1849, p. 44, 1 Gross'
Ill. Stat. 1870, 3d ed. p. 430, §§ 17, 18,) provided.
"SEcriox 1. That all actions founded upon any promissory
note, simple, contract in writing, bond, judgment or other
evidence of indebtedness in writing, made, caused or entered
into after the passage of this act, shall be commenced within
sixteen years after the cause of action accrued, and not thereafter.
"SE(c. 2. All actions founded upon accounts, bills of exchange,
orders, or upon promises not in writing, express or implied,
made after the passage of this act, shall be commenced within
five years next after the cause of action shall have accrued,
and not thereafter."
An act revising the law as to limitations was passed by the
Twenty-seventh General Assembly, April 4, 1872, (Laws Ill.
1871-2, p. 556,) and forms part of the Revised Statutes of
Illinois of 1874, and the act of November 5, 1849, was expressly repealed, with a saving clause, thus expressed in the
Revised Statutes "When any limitation law has been revised
by this or the Twenty-seventh General Assembly, and the
former limitation law repealed, such repeal shall not be con-

ROGERS v. DURANT.
Opinion of the Court.

strued so as to stop the running of any statute, but the time
shall be construed as if such repeal had not been made." Rev.
Stats. 1874, c. 131, § 5 and 6, .D'eksormv CA'hcago, Burlington
& Quincy .Railroad,77 Illinois, 331.
Conceding that the act of November 5, 1849, is applicable,
it is contended that checks are not bills of exchange, and therefore that the fourth plea did not fully answer the declaration,
and that, moreover, checks did not fall within the second
section, which prescribed five years as the bar to actions
"upon accounts, bills of exchange, orders, or upon promises
not in writing, express or implied," but within the first section,
which as to "any promissory note, simple contract in writing,
bond, judgment or other evidence of indebtedness in writing,"
prescribed sixteen years.
In the view which we take, the demurrer, which was general,
was properly overruled, if the checks were within the second
section, as the eighteen bills or drafts confessedly were.
Sinors v. Butters, 48 Illinois, 226.
Daniel comprehensively defines a check to be "a draft or
order upon a bank or banking house, purporting to be drawn
upon a deposit of funds, for the payment at all events of a
certain sum of money to a certain person therein named, or to
him or his order, or to bearer, and payable instantly on demand." 2 Dan. Neg. Inst. § 1566. And in a note to that
-section he gives these definitions and descriptions of checks
from the text writers "A check on a banker is, in legal
effect, an inland bill of exchange, drawn on a banker, payable
to bearer on demand." Byles on Bills, Sharswood's ed. 84.
"A check is a written order or request, addressed to a bank or
to persons carrying on the business of bankers, by a party
having money in their hands, requesting them to pay on presentment, to another person, or to him or bearer, or to him or
order, a certain sum of money specified in the instrument."
Story on Prom. Notes, § 487. "A check is a brief draft or
order on a bank or banking house, directing it to pay a certain
sum of money" 2 Parsons, Notes and Bills, 57. "A check
drawn on a bank is a bill of exchange payable on demand."
Edwards on Bills, 396.

OCTOBER TERiMr, 1890.
Opmon of the Court.

The question presented is not one, however, of general commercial law, requiring a discussion of the distinctions existing
between checks and bills of exchange, but merely whether
checks were intended to be included within the words "bills
of exchange," as used in the statute. In Bickford v _First
National Bank, 42 Illinois, 238, and ]Rounds v Smith, 42 Illinois, 245, it was held that a check might be regarded as substantially an inland bill of exchange, and many authorities
were cited to the proposition that the rules applicable to such
bills are applicable to checks. But the opinion of the court,
by Mr. Justice Breese, did not proceed upon the ground that
checks and domestic bills are identical, and the differences
between them have been repeatedly recognized by the Illinois
courts. Bank v ]Ritzznger, 118 Illinois, 484, Stevens v Park,
73 Illinois, 387, Heartt v Rhzodes, 66 Illinois, 351, TFilletts v
Paine,43 Illinois, 432, Allen .vKramer, 2 Brad. App. 205.
It has also been decided that an instrument is not less a
check because it orders payment "on account of A," Bank v.
Patton,109 Illinois, 479, and that its character as a check is
not changed by the fact that it is payable in another State
than the one in which it is drawn. Bank v Banking Co., 114
Illinois, 483, Union National Bank v Oceana County Bank,
80 Illinois, 212. And the settled rule in that jurisdiction is,
that where a depositor draws his check on a banker who has
his funds to an equal or greater amount, it operates to transfer
the sum named in the check to the payee, who can sue for and
recover the amount from the banker, and that a transfer of
the check carries with it the title to the sum named in the
check to each successive holder. Brown v leckze, 43 Illinois,
497, 3ftnn v Burch, 25 Illinois, 35, and cases supra.
Without pausing to examine the points of resemblance and
the points of difference between these instruments, it is enough
that the result of the decisions in Illinois puts them so far on
the same footing as to involve the conclusion that checks were
fairly embraced under the description, "bills of exchange," in
the second section of the statute under consideration.
In .Moses v Franklin Bank, 34 Mfaryland, 574, it was held
that checks were embraced within the description, "inland

ROGERS v. DURA NT.
Opinion of the Court.

bills of exchange," in the article of the Maryland Code relating to protests, and the court said "According to all the text
writers on bills and notes, as well as in numerous .decisions, a
check is denominated a species of inland bill of exchange, not
with all the incidents of an ordinary bill of exchange, it is
true, but still it belongs to that class and character of commercial paper. The same reason, therefore, that would authorize
the protest of an inland bill of exchange for non-payment
would authorize the protest of a check, the payment of which
See also Iawson v.
had been refused on presentment."
.Richards,6 Phila. 179.
So in Eyre v Waller, 5 Hurls. & Norm. 460, the Court of
Exchequer decided that checks were within the "Summary
Procedure on Bills of Exchange Act," 18 and 19 Vict. c. 67,
not only within the mischief, but within the words of the act.
And while these cases are referred to by way of illustration
merely, it seems to us clear that whatever the legislative reason
for the discrimination between the subjects of the first and of
the second section, that reason manifestly requires checks to
be placed in the same category as bills of exchange.
Again we are of opinion that checks might properly be held
comprised in the word "orders," as associated with bills of
exchange, rather than otherwise. Orders are frequently a
kind of informal bills of exchange, and a check is of course
an order for the payment of money, and we do not consider
that by any reasonable construction checks should be included
in the term "other evidence of indebtedness in writing," as
used in the first section, rather than in "bills of exchange,"
or " orders," as used in the second.
Counsel ingeniously argue that the first section specified
obligations of a higher class than those mentioned in the second, and that checks, as contradistingmshed from orders,
belonged to the former, but it is difficult to perceive why
checks should be classified with bonds, judgments, and promissory notes, rather than with bills of exchange, or why the
simple contract or evidence of indebtedness in writing, of the
first section, should necessarily be regarded as of higher dignity
than a draft or an order for money

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

The fourth plea was inaccurate in its reference to a former
statute of limitations, approved February 10, 1849; but that
is immaterial, and, stripped of surplusage, it averred that the
cause of action set forth in each of the twenty special counts'
as well as the common counts- did not accrue within five years
next before the bringing of the suit. The court properly held
that, such being the fact, the drafts and checks were barred,
and, as there was no pretence that there was any other cause
of action, the judgment was right, and it is

HUMPHREYS v. MoKISSOOK.

WABASH, ST. LOUIS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. McKISSOCK.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Nos. 296, 991. Argued April 8,1891.-Decded Mlay 11, 1891.

Several railroad companies combined to construct an elevator, to be connected with their respective roads, each to contribute an equal sum
towards its costs, and each to receive corresponding certificates of stock
in a corporation organized to take title to the elevator and to construct
it. This arrangement was carried out. Held,
(1) That the interest of each company in it was as a stockholder in the
company which constructed it;
(2) That no company had an interest in the property itself which it
could mortgage;
(3) That such stock would not pass to a mortgagee of one of the railroads under a general description as an appurtenance to the road.
A railroad company joining in the construction of an elevator on land not
belonging to it, and situated at some distance from its road, does not
acquire an interest in it which will pass as an appurtenance under a mortgage of its railroad as constructed or to be constructed, and the appurtenances thereunto belonging.

Tn two appeals in these cases are from the same decree.
Both will be disposed of by the same decision, which will turn
upon the effect of a mortgage, executed by a railroad corpora-

