INTERNATIONAL TOOTA CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.

55

Statement of the Case.

to appeal from the first decree elapsed, and, no question
being raised as to the second decree, that of July 14, 1881f, it
must be
-Affirmed,and t 's so ordered.

INTERNATIONAL TOOTH CROWN COMPANY
v. GAYLORD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNE TICUT.
No. 294. Argued April 8,1891.-Decided April 27,1891.
Letters patent No. 277,941, granted May 22, 1883, to Cassius l. Richmond
for an artificial denture, are void by reason of an abandonment of the
invention to the public by the inventor before the patent was applied for.
Letters patent No. 277,943, granted to Cassius M. Richmond May 22, 1883,
for a process for preparing roots of teeth for the reception of artificial
dentures, are void for want of novelty and for want of invention in the
invention claimed in it.
It is no invention, within the meaning of the law, to perform with increased
speed a series of surgical operations, old in themselves, and in the order
in wnch they were before performed.

IN EQUITY, for the infringement of letters patent.
was stated by the court as follows

The case

This was a bill in equity for the infringement of two letters
patent, granted May 22, 1883, to Cassius IM. Richmond, viz.,
No. 277,941 for an artificial denture, and No. 277,943 for a
process for preparing roots of teeth for the reception of artificial dentures.
The main contest took place over No. 277,911, which covered a device intended to replace the loss or destruction of
that part of the natural tooth which projects into the mouth
externally to the gum, the device being an artificial crown to
be placed upon and supported by the natural stump or root of
the partially destroyed tooth. The manner in which this is
done was stated in the specification substantially as follows
The top of the tooth is cut off and a hole drilled in the root,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

the end of the tooth being then properly prepared, a ferrule
is made of such a size and shape as to exactly fit the base of
the root. An artificial porcelain or other crown of suitable
color, size and shape is then selected to be applied to the root,
upon the back of this crown isplaced a platinum or gold
plate, which has holes through it to allow the passage of pins
which are firmly imbedded in the porcelain. The root and
crown having been so prepared, the crown is placed in position and attached to the ferrule by wax, which holds the
crown sufficiently firm in position to allow of the removal of
the ferrule. Thereafter a suitable pin is imbedded in the wax,
which is designed to enter the hole which has been drilled in
the root. The crown thus prepared is then invested or protected by a suitable covering of marble dust or plaster, leaving the wax exposed. This investiture holds the parts firmly
in the position they are to occupy when placed in the mouth.
The wax is then melted from behind the crown and replaced
by a suitable gold solder, which is blown in by a blow-pipe,
and fused around the pin. This solder unites with the pin,
the ferrule and plate, making a solid backing to the crown,
and firmly holding all the parts together. The prepared
crown is then slipped upon the prepared root and cemented
thereto. The ferrule when in position should project under
the free margin of the gum sufficiently to prevent the root
from decay, and is likewise concealed from view by the gum.
Following this description, the patentee proceeded to state
that "when this denture is applied to a root the end of the
root is entirely protected from the injurious action of the
fluids of the mouth, and is hermetically sealed, being covered
by a closed cap. This inclosing-cap is of the greatest importance, because otherwise decay must necessarily take place by
reason of the action of the fluids of the mouth on the exposed
dentine, and the denture would become useless. By this
arrangement, therefore, both the end of the root and so much
of the same as might otherwise be exposed to the fluids of the
mouth are hermetically sealed, and the root is thus protected
from the injurious effect which would otherwise result from
the action of the fluids. It is obvious, likewise, that by this

INTERNATIONAL TOOTH CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.

57

Statement of the Case.

arrangement the end of the root may retain its natural configuration, and its substance is not destroyed by cutting away or
shaping the same at the sides, which is very injurious and
The
tends greatly to the destruction of the root.
forth,
as
capsohereinbefore described are so constructed, as set
exroot,
wholly
of
the
end
the
prepared
to cover and inclose
cluding the juices of the mouth therefrom, and preventing the
decay that would otherwise result."
Infringement was alleged and admitted of all the claims of
the patent, which read as follows:
1. The combination of a prepared root, having its natural
terminal contour near the margin of the gum, with an inclosing-cap attached thereto for supporting an artificial denture,
substantially as described.
2. Combination of a prepared root, having its natural terminal contour near the margin of the gum, with an inclosing-cap
attached thereto, and with an artificial porcelain or other crown
supported by said cap, substantially as described.
3. The combination of a prepared root, having its natural
terminal contour near the margin of the gum, with an inclosing-cap attached thereto, the said cap being attached to the
root by a pin or suitable attaching contrivance passing upward
and into a suitable cavity in the root, substantially as described.
4. The combination of a tooth crown, a metallic backing
soldered to said crown, and a pin firmly soldered to said artificial backing and secured to and passing through a ferrule
adapted to surround the root, substantially as described.
Two other claims are practically repetitions of the above.
The principal defence to this patent was that of abandonment, and upon this ground the bill was dismissed by the
Circuit Court, whose opinion regarding the validity of this
patent is contained in another case involving the same facts,
reported as The Internatwnal Tooth Crown Co. v 1whinond,
24 Blatchford, 223, and 30 Fed. Rep. 775.
Patent No. 277,943 was for a method of preparing the roots
for the application of the cap covered by the prior patent,
which consisted in grooving the same by opposite grooves,
suddenly removing the crown from the root by a suitable for-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

ceps or other contrivance, and then immediately expelling the
nerve from its cavity by driving a suitable shaped piece of
wood into the nerve cavity, in removing the same and cleansing the cavity, and in immediately plugging or filling the upper
part of the nerve cavity by driving in another piece of wood.
The defence to this patent, viz., want of novelty, was sustained by the court below and the bill dismissed.
fr

.

r

.Dwker'son for appellant.

Mr John E. Beaok and X1r Cha/rles Z. Ot Id for appellees.
Mx. JsTcu

BRowN delivered the opinon of the court.

Prior to the invention of Dr. Richmond, the only method of
supplying an artificial for a natural crown, in case the tooth
had decayed or broken off, was by what is called a peg tooth.
This was made by drilling the nerve canal larger, then a
porcelain tooth with a hole in it was ground to fit the root,
and the two were connected together by a wooden or metallic
pin or dowel mad6 to fit the hole in the porcelain as well as
the hole in the tooth. The operation, however, was very unsatisfactory It was found to be impossible to fit the artificial
and the natural tooth so closely together that particles of food
and saliva would not work in between them, fouling the mouth
and ultimately causing the decay of the root or such a swelling
of the wood as would split the root in the act of mastication, or
such an enlargement of the cavity as would cause the wooden
pin to drop out, resulting in either case in the loss of the tooth.
It was the object of Dr. Richmond to supersede this method of
crowning teeth by a more perfect, cleanly and durable device.
It is substantially conceded in this case, and was found by
the court below, that his patent No. 277,941 describes an mvention of great utility in the practice of dentistry, which has
been largely adopted by the profession throughout the country,
for building upon the roots of decayed teeth artificial crowns,
which are claimed to be as strong and as well adapted to the
purposes of mastication as natural teeth, and to imitate them

INTERNATIONAL TOOTH CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.

59

Opinion of the Court.

so perfectly in appearance that it is impossible to distinguish
them except by a critical examination.
Gold or other metallic caps were not wholly unknown before
the invention of Dr. Richmond. One such, known as the
Morrison operation, was described in the Missouri Dental
Journal of May, 1879. Another is explained in the patent of
November 4, 1873, to John B. Beers, who seems to have been
the first to make use of a screw or pivot to attach the cap to
the root of the tooth. In both of these cement or porcelain
enamel was used to fill the cap and secure the necessary adhesion to the root. Two or three other similar devices are shown,
but none of them seem to have been attended by any practical
success, and neither of them exhibits the combination of the
Richmond patent. Indeed, it was scarcely claimed that his
invention had been anticipated, and, as infringement of all his
claims was admitted, the whole defence practically turned upon
the question of abandonment.
The facts bearing upon this defence are substantially as
follows Dr. Richmond began his experiments in fitting a
gold collar to the neck of a tooth as early as 1875 or 1876 in
San Francisco, and he states himself that he performed the
operation described in his principal patent in the mouth of
one Kalloch on Christmas of 1876, and, so far as he knew, the
operation was entirely successful, and the tooth still remained
in the mouth of his patient. He further states in his examination that he practised this operation extensively in San
Francisco, Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland, New York and New
London, and demonstrated it to five hundred dentists in private practice and in public clinics. In their general characteristics these operations, as be states them in his testimony,
were the same as were described in his patent, although there
appear to have been certain differences in detail. Sometimes
the tooth was backed with gold and sometimes with platina,
sometimes the crowns were made entirely of platina, except
the solder and porcelain. The operation was performed by
making a band surrounding the root, with a porcelain front, a
pin extending into the root, and the whole cemented on the
root in one piece. The band was made with a piece of gold-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1890.
Opinion of the- Court.

plate material soldered together to form a solid ring, this was
fitted around the end of the root. The porcelain tooth was
then ground upon this band to correspond with the adjoining
tooth. The tooth was then waxed into its position, the band
was then removed, and the porcelain waxed into its position on
the band, the pin was then inserted into the wax forming the
crown, the porcelain, pin and band being held together with
wax. It was then invested, as it is called, with marble dust
and plaster. The wax was then removed, and that portion of
it which was filled with wax before was filled with gold, forming one solid crown.
It is but just to the plaintiff to state in this connection that
Richmond appears to have had a quarrel with the treasurer of
the plaintiff company in 1883, very soon after the patent was
issued to the Richmond Tooth Crown Company as assignee of
the inventor, and that he was called as a witness by the defendants, and apparently testified under a strong bias against
the plaintiff, but his evidence regarding the extent of his
operations is fortified by a large number of letters from dentists in different parts of the country, written in 1878 and 1879,
certifying in strong language to the value of his invention.
Indeed, the evidence is that he instructed Dr. Gaylord, one of
the defendants in this suit, in the art of making and applying
this tooth crown as early as 1879, performing two operations
in Dr. Gaylord's mouth and one in that of a patient, and receiving pay for the same. As the application for the patent
was not made until December 1, 1882, more than two years
after all these operations were conducted, the evidence of
abandonment is overwhelming, if it be once admitted that the
operation was identical with that described in the patent, or
different from it only in an immaterial particular.
The reply to all this testimony is, that the tooth crowns
made prior to the year 1880 were defective, because they were
made with an incomplete metallic floor to the ferrule, and for
that reason the metal cap or thimble was more or less leaky
There is considerable evidence upon this point, Dr. Gaylord
swearing that the operation taught to him was exactly like
that which was described in the patent, while the plaintiff's

LTERNATIONAL TOOTH CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.
OpiMio

61

of the Court.

witnesses lay great stress upon the point that the cap was
imperfect by reason of the incomplete covering to the root,
although in some cases the hole or aperture is admitted to
have been microscopic. Among the earliest exhibits put in
evidence is that known as Searles, No. 1, which was a tooth
which had been treated by the defendant Gaylord in 1879,
according to the Richmond process as then practised, and
which remained in good condition until 1885, when it fell out,
the root having become loose. The exhibit as originally put
in evidence showed the root surmounted by a crown. This
Exhibit Searles, No. 1, is claimed to be identical with the patent
in having a floor extending completely across the ferrule, and
united therewith in front as well as in the rear. With regard
to this, however, the plaintiff's expert testifies that he had examined it with a magnifying glass and with a microscope, and
did not find that there was a closed cap. "There is a platina
floor, but it is not closed. Therefore the tooth cannot show
the perfected invention of Richmond, for it does not show any
hermetically closed metallic cap, and without this the said perfected invention is not found." The same witness on redirect
testifies further with regard to this hole by saying "I have
examined Searles, No. 1, carefully under a powerful magnifying glass. I find an opening in the gold around the pin, and
also another opening about the middle of the gold which forms
a part of the floor." It was said by the Circuit Judge of this
and another similar exhibit, "It is conceded by the expert for
the complanant that if these dentures had been made with a
ring or ferrule having a complete floor embracing the exposed
end of the root, they would be the tooth crowns of the patent.
One of them has a half floor of platinum back of the porcelain
under the ring, intended to partially inclose the exposed end
of the root, and the other has a partial floor, made of loose
gold foil stuffed behind the porcelain before the solder was
flowed through the back of the crown. It is insisted that
when the crown is constructed in this way it does not have
the inclosing-cap of the patent, and consequently the end of
the root is not hermetically sealed. The controversy as to
this patent is thus narrowed to the question whether the sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

stitution of a complete floor over the end of the ferrule, so
as to wholly inclose the end of the natural root, in the place
of -a partial floor, involves sufficient invention to sustain the
patent."
But whether a cap thus constructed be imperfect or not, it
is entirely clear that the closing of this alleged hole, whih is
so small that its very existence is denied, is such a carrying
forward and perfection of the original device as would occur
to any ordinary dentist. since it is of the very alphabet of
dental science that the dentine of a tooth shall be protected
as far as possible from the action of food and the fluids of the
mouth. There is little doubt that some progress was made
between the first operations of Dr. Richmond in San Francisco
and that disclosed by his patent, but the real invention was
made when the ferrule with the porcelain crown was adopted
and applied to the root of a tooth prepared for the purpose of
receiving it. All subsequent progress was made on this line
and in furtherance of this idea, and was such as would occur
to an ordinarily skilful dentist. There is a multitude of cases
in this court to the effect that something more is required to
support a patent than a slight advance over what had preceded
it or mere superiority in workmanship or finish. Smith v
NYichols, 21 Wall. 112, Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S.
192, 199, Pzekermng v JlcCullough, 104- U. S. 310.
Nor do we think the use which Dr. Richmond made of his
invention can be fairly called experimental. The fact that he
taught it to a large number of dentists throughout the country,
with no suggestion that it was an experiment, and received
pay for such instruction, precludes the defence he now sets
up that all this was simply tentative. It was said in SmitA &
Gnggs Mfg. Co. v Sprague, 123 U S. 249, 256, by Mr. Justice
Matthews, speaking for this court "A use by the inventor
for the purpose of testing the machine, in order by experiment
to devise additional means for perfecting the success of its
operation, is admissible, and where, as incident to such use,
the product of its operation is disposed of by sale, such profit
from its use does not change its character, but where the use
is mainly for the purposes of trade and profit, and the experi-

INTERNATIONALj TOOTH CROWN CO. v. GAYLORD.

63

Opinion of the Court.

ment is merely incidental to that, the principal, and not the
incident, must give character to the use. The thing implied
as excepted out of the prohibition of the statute is a use which
may be properly characterized as substantially for purposes of
experiment. Where the substantial use is not for that purpose,
but is otherwise public, and for more than two years prior to
the application, it comes within the prohibition." If, as was
said in CnsolidatedFruitJar Co. v Vrght, 94 U. S. 92, 94,
and Egbert v Lip.pmann, 104 U. S. 333, a single instance of
sale or of use by the patentee may be fatal to the patent, much
more is this so where the patentee publicly performs an operation covered by his patent in a dozen different cities throughout the country, and teaches it to other members of the profession, who adopt it as a recognized feature of their practice.
Granting that, under the rule laid down in Elizabeth v Pavement Co., 97 U. S. 126, a patentee has a right to test the
durability of his invention as one of the elements of its success,
it is manifest that his experiments to that end should extend
no farther, either in time or in the number of cases in which
it is used, than is reasonably necessary for that purpose. In
that case the inventor of a pavement who had filed a caveat
therefor laid seventy-five feet of it upon an avenue belonging
to a toll corporation, of which he was a stockholder, and
allowed it to remain there six years before he took out his
patent, visiting it almost daily As the test was purely experimental,'and he received no compensation for the use of his
pavement, it was held not to constitute an abandonment. But
the court observed "If the inventor allows his machine to
be used by other persons generally, either with or without
compensation, or if it is, with his consent, put on sale for such
use, then it will be in public use and on public sale, within the
meaning of the law" ]Manifestly that case is no authority for
the use that was made of the patented device in the present case.
In preparing his specification Dr. Richmond naturally laid
great stress upon the hermetical sealing of the cap, as he must
have been satisfied that his first operations constituted a complete abandonment of what he did to the public, and that the
entire validity of his proposed patent would depend upon his

OCTOBER TERM1,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

ability to draw a distinction between his operations as formerly
and as then conducted.

We are satisfied, however, that his

real invention, and the only one to which he was properly
entitled to a patent, is such as he put in practice prior to the
years 1878 and 1879, and taught so extensively throughout
the country In the light of this testimony we are compelled
to hold that this constituted such an abandonment of his claim
as to preclude his obtaining a valid patent for it.
Little need be said with regard to patent No. 27,943,
which is for preparing the root for the reception of the denture described in the former patent. This preparation consists in removing the crown from the root, and then driving
into the nerve cavity a suitably shaped piece of wood, in
removing the same and cleansing the nerve cavity, and in
immediately plugging or filling the upper part of the nerve
cavity by driving in another piece of wood, as described in
his fourth claim. These operations were all old, and were
performed in the order stated in this patent. Practically, the
only novelty is in the immediate filling of the nerve cavity
with a wooden plug after the previous operation. In this connection, the patent states that, "in order to avoid pain by treating the tooth while still benumbed, and to prevent abscess or
inflammation, it is very important to close the pulp canal
immediately This I accomplish by driving a second piece of
wood, shaped like the first, into the pulp canal in the presence
of carbolic acid, filling it to its apical foramen, thus perfectly
excluding the air."
It is hardly necessary to say that it is no invention, within
the meaning of the law, to perform with increased speed a
series of surgical operations old in themselves, and in the
order in which they were before performed. With what
celerity these successive operations shall be performed depends
entirely upon the judgment and skill of the operator, and does
not involve any question of novelty which would entitle him
to a patent therefor.
The decree of the court below dismissiig the bill is therefore
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICe BrEwEI did not sit in this case and took no
part in its decision.

