QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

could divest or limit his right or prevent his recovering judgment. On the other hand, if the patent only carried title to
the water line, then it is entirely immaterial to the plaintiff
what action the officers of the land department may have
taken in reference to the premises beyond, the defendant
would lie entitled to judgment, and that irrespectively of the
question whether he had any title, or though it was vested in
the State.
It is a novel proposition, that in an action of ejectment, a
party defendant can, by setting up some claim under the laws
of the United States, a claim which cannot be inquired into
on the trial, because it in no manner affects the plaintiff's
title, which is the subject of dispute, make such unnecessary
and irrelevant claim a ground of removal from the State to
the Federal court.
We think the case should have been reversed and remanded
to the state court, and in that way an early re6xamination
might have been had in the Supreme Court of the State on
the merits of the principal question.

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 68.

Submitted April 10, 1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

Uncontradicted evidence of interested witnesses to an improbable fact does
not require judgment to be rendered accordingly.

THE petitioner, who is also the appellant, is a member of
the Chinese race, but claims to have been born within the
United States, and consequently to be a citizen thereof. He
is sixteen years of age, and arrived at the port of San Francisco in the steamship City of New York, in February, 1888.
The officers of customs refused to allow him to land, holding
that he was a subject of the emperor of China, and within
the restrictions of the act of Mlay 6, 1882, and the supplemenVOL. CXL-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

tary act of 1884. He was accordingly detained by the captain
of the steamship on board, and he applied, through a friend,
to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of California for a writ of habeas corpus to obtain his
discharge from such detention, alleging that he was not within
the restrictions of the acts of Congress, but was a citizen of
the United States, having been born therein. The writ was
issued and the petitioner brought before the court, when his
testimony and that of his father was taken in support of his
pretension. He testified as to his birth, as counsel observe,
with surprising particularity His story was that he was
sixteen years old, that he was born in San Francisco, "on
Dupont Street, upstairs," and remained in that city until he
was ten years of age, when he went to China with his mother.
He also mentioned the names of three persons on the ship
whom he knew When asked how he remembered their
names, he answered, "When I got to China, my mother told
me very often of those people and their names, she repeated
them to me, and I remember them." When reminded that
that was six years before, he responded "M1Ay mother sometimes speaks those names to me very frequently" ]His mother
was in China, and he knew nothing of the three men named.
Although in the city, according to his statement, for ten years,
he did not, upon his examination, show any knowledge of any
places or streets therein, or of the English language. The following is a specimen of his testimony"
"Q. Can you count in English 2 A. I do not understand
English.
"Q. Can you count in English? A. I can count in Chinese,
but not in English.
"Q. Do you lnow the names of the days of the week in
English 2 A. I am too small, Ldid not learn it.
"Q. You do not know anything at all in English? A. No,
sir, not a word."

Nor did he mention any circumstance, incident or occurrence, except being born in Dupont Street, upstairs, which
would lead one to suppose that he had ever been in the city
His only memory seemed to be of the names of the three men

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

who accompanied him back to Ohina, whom he had not seen
since, and whose names he only knew from having heard his
mother repeat them. The, father, who was examined, stated
that he worked on a sewing machine, that the petitioner was
his boy, and that he was born "at 1030 Dupont Street, upstairs," and went to China with his mother, and one of the
witness's friends, and that he wanted his boy to come back to
learn English. He also produced what he called his "storebook," in which he had entered the purchase of a ticket for
the boy and his mother. He gave no particulars of his residence in San Francisco, of his having a family there, or of his
being known among his neighbors or others as having any
children.
The court, after hearing these witnesses, held that the petitioner was not illegally restrained of his liberty, but was a
Chinese person forbidden by law to land within the United
States, and had no right to be or remain therein. It accordingly discharged the writ, and ordered that the petitioner be
remanded to the marshal to be returned to the captain of the
steamship. From this judgment an appeal is taken to this
court.
.Mr J J Scrvoener for appellant.
Mr Assista t Attorney GeneraZ Parker for appellee.
MR. JusTicE FxrE,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

The question presented is whether the evidence before the
court below was sufficient to show that the petitioner was a
citizen of the United States.
The testimony given by himself amounted to very little,
indeed, it was of no force or weight whatever. The particularity and positiveness with which he stated the place of his
birth in San Francisco was evidently the result of instruction
for his examination on this proceeding, and not a statement
of what'he had learned from his parents in years past. And
his failure to mention any particulars as to the city of San

420

OCTOBE

TERAT,

1890.

Opinion of the Court.

Francisco, which he certainly ought to have been able to do
if he resided there during the first ten years of his life, was
surprising. A boy of any intelligence, arriving at that age,
would remember, even after the lapse of six years, some words
of the language of the country, some names of streets or places
or some circumstances that would satisfy one that he had been
in the city before. But there was nothing whatever of this
kind shown. He gave the name of no person he had seen,
he described no locality or incident relating to his life in the
city, nor did he repeat a single word of the language, which
he must have heard during the greater part of several years,
if he was there.
The testimony of the father was also devoid of any incident
or circumstance corroborative of his statement. The production of the so-called store-book, in which there was an entry
of passage-money paid for the boy and his mother, does not
strike us as at all conclusive. The accounts of a mere worker
on a sewing machine would not be likely to occupy much
space, and the alleged entry could as easily have been made
as the manufacture of the story repeated. If we could not
believe the story in the absence of the book we should hesitate to yield credence to it upon the exhibition of the entry
If the petitioner was really born in the United States, and had
lived there during the first ten years of his life, the fact must
have been known to some of the father's neighbors, and incidents could readily have been given which would have placed
the statement of it beyond all question. It is incredible that
a father would allow the exclusion of his son from the country
where he lived, when proof of his son's birth and residence
there for years could have been easily shown, if such in truth
had been the fact.
Undoubtedly, as a general rule, positive testimony as to a
particular fact, uncontradicted by any one, should control the
decision of the court, but that rule admits of many exceptions.
There may be such an inherent improbability in the statements of a witness as to induce the court or jury to disregard
his evidence, even in the absence of any direct conflictihg testimony He may be contradicted by the facts he states as com-

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pletely as by direct adverse testimony, and there may be so
many omissions in his account of particular transactions, or of
his own conduct, as to discredit his whole story His manner,
too, of testifying may give rise to doubts of his sincerity, and
create the impression that he is giving a wrong coloring to
material facts. All these things may properly be considered
m determining the weight which should be given to his statements, although there be no adverse verbal testimony adduced.
In Ifavanagh v Wilson, '0 N. Y 177, 179, where the action
was by a real estate broker against the personal representatives of a deceased customer to recover an alleged agreed compensation for effecting a sale, and the only witness as to the
contract was the son of the plaintiff, whose own compensation
depended upon the plaintiff's success, and the compensation
alleged to have been agreed upon was more than double the
usual compensation, it was held that the statement of the witness, under those circumstances, was not so entirely free from
improbability as to justify a direction of the court to the jury
to find a verdict for the plaintiff, although there was no direct
contradictory testimony presented. The court said "It is
undoubtedly a general rule that when a disinterested witness,
who is in no way discredited, testifies to a fact within his own
knowledge, which is not of itself improbable, or in conflict
with other evidence, the witness is to be believed, and the fact
is to be taken as legally established, so that it cannot be disreBut this case is not fairly
garded by court or jury
brought within this rule. Here the witness was not wholly
disinterested. He was a son of the plaintiff, engaged in his
business, and thus biassed and interested in feeling. His compensation for drawing the contracts (and how large that was
to be does not appear) depended, I infer from the evidence,
upon his father's success in getting his compensation as the
broker." The court then went on to observe that the story
told by the witness was not entirely free from some improbability, and that it did not appear why the broker was promised more than double the usual price for the sale of country
property, nor why the compensation was never spoken of before or after, in the numerous conversations heard by witness,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Dissenting Opimon. Brewer, J.

nor what could have induced the promise of the large sum,
when the usual commission would seem to have been ample
compensation for any service to be rendered, nor why the
party made the unusual promise to pay the absolute sum in no
way dependent upon the amount for which the property might
be negotiated. These circumstances, the court thought, presented a sufficient case for the consideration of the jury, and it
held that the court below erred in refusing to submit it to
them.
In Hoelder v Adler, 78 N. Y 287, it was held that a court
or jury was not bound to adopt the statements of a witness
simply for the reason that no other witness had denied them,
and that the character of the witness was not impeached, and
that the witness might be contradicted by circumstances as
well as by statements of others contrary to his own, or there
might be such a degree of improbability in his statements as
to deprive them of credit, however positively made. The case
of Elwood v Vestern Unzon Telegraph Co., 45 N. Y 549, was
cited in support of this position, where, in delivering the opinion of the court, the rule and its exceptions are stated by
Judge Rapallo with great clearness and precision, so also was
the case of Eavanaghv Wilson, above referred to.
In Wait v 3fcJYeil, 7 Mass. 261, the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts held that a verdict was not to be set aside,
although it was given against the positive testimony of a
witness, not impeached, where there were circumstances in
evidence tending to lessen the probability that such testimony
was true. Numerous other cases might be cited in support of
the same general doctrine.
For the considerations mentioned, and the fact that the
court below had the witnesses before it, and could thus better
judge of the credibility to which they were entitled, we are
not prepared to hold that its finding was not justified.
Ajfirmed.
Its judgment is, therefore,
MR. JusTOic

BREWEiR dissenting.

I am unable to agree with the conclusions reached by the
court. They seem to me to be in the face of positive, umm-

QUOCK TING v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, 3.

peached and uncontradicted testimony The single question
is one of fact, whether the petitioner was born in this country
or not? On the hearing he was represented by counsel, so
was the government. He testified that he was sixteen years
old, was born on Dupont Street in San Francisco, and named
the place on that street, that he lived there until he was ten
years of age, and that he then went with his mother, on the
steamer Rio de Janeiro, to China. With them on the steamer
were three friends of the family, whose names he gave. His
father, who was also a witness, testified that the boy was born
in San Francisco, at the place named, No. 1030 Dupont Street,
that he remained there until he was ten years of age, and that
at that time he sent the petitioner, with his mother, back to
China. He gave the day and the year on which the boy
sailed. He gave as a reason for sending his wife and son back
to China, that his parents were old, and as he could not go
himself, sent her to attend on them. He produced his storebook on which appeared an entry of the purchase of the tickets
for the boy and his mother, an entry of date the day before
that on which the steamer named sailed. No witness was
called to contradict this testimony They were the only witnesses. The only thing which makes against the boy's testimony, is the fact that he did not know a word of English.
But is it strange that a boy born and brought up in a Chinese
family, and living until he was ten years old in that part of
San Francisco which is practically a Chinese town, and then
taken back to China, should know only the Chinese language
It is true he did not give the details of his boyhood in San
Francisco, but no question was asked of him in respect to
them. If the government, through its counsel, wished to discredit his positive testimony it was its province, on crossexamination, to question him as to his knowledge of various
localities in San Francisco, and of events which happened
during the time he claimed to have resided there. The books
of the steamer, if accessible, were not produced to show that
no such passengers sailed on the trip named. No attempt was
made to contradict either father or son, or impeach either,
unless the ignorance of the English language is to be con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

sidered as impeachment. The government evidently rested on
the assumption that, because the witnesses were Chinese persons, they were not to be believed. I do not agree with
this.

WAN SHING v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 1414.

Submitted April 10, 1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

The result of the legislation respecting the .Chinese would seem to be this,
that no laborers of that race shall hereafter be permitted to enter the
United States, or even to return after having departed from the country,
though they may have previously resided therein and have left with a.
view of returning; and that all other persons of that race, except those
connected with the diplomatic service, must produce a certificate from
the authorities of the Chinese government, or of such other foreign government as they may at 'the time be subjects of, showing that they are
not laborers, and have the permission of that government to enter the
United States, which certificate is to be vs~d by a representative of the
government of the United States.

THE case, as stated by the court, was as follows.
The petitioner, who is also appellant here, is a subject of
the Emperor of China, and came from that country to the
port of San Francisco, California, in the steamship Arabic,
arriving there August 7, 1889. The officers of the customs
refused to allow him to land in the United States, holding that
he was a Chinese laborer and as such within the provisions of
the exclusion act. The captain of the steamship therefore detained him on board, and he applied through a friend to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of California for a writ of habeas corpus to obtain his discharge from such detention, alleging that it was claimed by
the master that he could not land under the provisions of the
act of Congress of May 6, 1882, and the act amendatory
thereof, whereas he was a resident of the United States on

