UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
Statement of the Case.

compensation as if he were able to put his finger upon a particular clause of a statute authorizing compensation for such
services.
These are the only questions considered in the opinion of the
court below to which exception was taken, and in the absence
of an assignment of errors we do not find it necessary to discuss all the items of the account.
The judgment of the Dtstrict Court must be reversed and
vacated, and the case remanded wzth directions to enter a
new dudgment in conformity to this opznzon.

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
A[DDLE DISTRICT OF ATA

AMA.

No. 339. Submitted April 22,1891.-Decded May 11, 1891.

Whether a complaint in a criminal proceeding is so unnecessarily prolix that
the commissioner who drew it should not be allowed charges for it in
excess of three folios, is a question of fact upon which the decision of
the court below will be accepted.
I
It is within the discretion of a commissioner of a Circuit Court of the
United States in Alabama, to cause more than one warrant against the
same party for a violation of the same section of the Revised Statutes
to be issued, and when the court below approves his accounts containing charges for such issues, it is conclusive upon the accounting officers
of the Treasury that the discretion was properly exercised.
The acknowledg nent of a recognizance in a criminal case by principal and
sureties is a single act, for which only a single fee is chargeable.

Tins was a consolidation of three actions to recover for services as commissioner of the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Alabama. The services are admitted to have been
rendered, and the accounts therefor approved by the proper
court under the act of February 25, 1875, 18 Stat. 333. The
United States interposed a demurrer to the petition, upon the
hearing of which judgment was entered in favor of the petiVOL. CxL-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opimon of the Court.
tioner for $995.35, 35 Fed. Rep. 886, from which an appeal
was taken and allowed to this court.
M'r John C. Chaney for appellant submitted on his brief
filed for appellant in United States v Barber,ante, 164.
.r
1R. .R..Me Mahon and .Mr TIF Dudley for appellee
submitted on their brief filed in that case.
MR. JusTicE Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.

This case was submitted upon briefs filed in a prior case
between the same parties, United States v Barber, ante, 164,
which, however, did not discuss the points involved, and in the
absence of an assignment of errors, the demurrer also being
general, we are compelled to look to the disallowances by the
first comptroller, and to the opinion of the court, to ascertain
the questions raised upon the hearing in the court below The
objections to the accounts appear to be as follows
1. To all charges in excess of three folios for drawing complamts. While it is true that a complaint will not ordinarily
exceed three folios in length, it is obvious that there are cases,
as, 'for instance, in prosecutions for perjury or conspiracy,
where it may be much longer than that. As the complaints
to which this objection is taken appear to have been either
under section 2461, for cutting timber upon the lands of the
United States, under section 5440, for conspiracy, under'section 5392, for perjury, or under section 5393, for subornation
of perjury, it is entirely probable that more than three folios
may have been necessarily employed in drawing such complaints. It is evident that no iron rule can be laid down upon
the subject, that something must be left to the discretion of
the district attorney and the commissioner, and that, if the
complaints are not unnecessarily prolix, their action should be
sustained. This is a question of fact in all cases, and as the
court below has found, not only in its formal approval of this
account, but in its opinion upon the demurrer, that no unnecessary verbiage was employed, and no surplusage to increase
fees, we think the item should be allowed.

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
Opnion of the Court.

2. The objlection to charges for more than one case against
the same party for a violation of the same section of the Revised Statutes is somewhat more serious, and yet we think that,
under the circumstances, it is not well taken.

The object of the proceedings before the committing magistrate is to secure the attendance of the accused to answer any

indictment that may be found by the grand jury, and ordinarily one complaint is sufficient for that purpose, however
numerous the charges may be against him. The grand jury
may find indictments for as many violations of law as it may
see fit, but this power does not render it necessary that he
should be held to bail in more than one case. It does not follow, however, that more than one proceeding may not be instituted.against him, and occasionally an exigency may arise
that would render it expedient to do so. Much must be left
to the discretion of the district attorney in that regard, he is
the sworn officer of the government, and presumed to act in
its best interests. In explanation of the duplication of warrants in this case, the petitioner states that "the different
cases related to different and distinct acts, at different times
and places, and about different and distinct matters and things,
having no connection with each other, and with different persons as defendants and witnesses. That whatever would or
might have been elsewhere, courts in Alabama do not dismiss
a large number of indictments against any person for no other
reason than that another indictment might yet remain upon
which the person, if agreeable, could be tried for some like or
unlike offence, the pardoning power being placed only in the
executive." While, for the reasons above stated, we are not
entirely convinced by this statement, so far as it is an argument, there are certain facts contained in it which show that
it was within the power of the commissioner to issue these
warrants, and, under the case of United States v Jones, 134
U. S. 483, the approval by the court of his accounts is conclusive that his discretion was properly exercised. If the officers
of the Treasury were at liberty to question the propriety of
every charge in all cases, the approval of the courts would be
an idle ceremony We can give no less weight to such ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

proval than to say that it covers all matters within the discretion of the officer rendering the account. The exception to
this item is therefore overruled.
3. We have already held that a fee is properly chargeable
for the acknowledgment of a recognizance, but that such
acknowledgment is a single act, though it be made by principal and sureties, and that but a single fee of 25 cents is
chargeable therefor.

Unwted States v Ewzng, ante, 164.

These accounts must be allowed, with the exception of the
fees charged for the acknowledgment of more than one person
in each case.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
case remanded with snstructtons to enter a new judgment
'in conformzty to thw ojpn on.
MR.

JUsTICE BRADLEY

did not sit in this case, and took no

part m its decision.

CLUETT v. CLAFLIN.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 174. Submitted April 21,1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

letters patent No. 156,880, granted November 17, 1874, to Robert Cluett
for an inprovement in shirts are void for want of invention.

THIS was a bill in equity to recover for the infringement of
letters patent No. 156,880, granted November 17, 1874, to Robert Cluett for an improvement in shirts. In his specification the
patentee stated the object of his invention to be "first, to avoid
the folding in of the edges of the bosom, and the raw edges
and loose threads thereof, which disfigure the bosom when so
folded in, second, to stay the bosom, rendering it firmer in
itself, and less likely to rumple or break; third, to avoid
wrinkling of the bosom by the unevenness or fulling up of any
one of the layers composing the bosom in any part thereof,

