OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

makes no provision for paying the Chief Supervisor for his
.attendance upon court, he is entitled as a commissioner to the
:same fees as a clerk for the performance of like services,
that the clerk is entitled to a per diem, and, therefore, the
.commissioner should be, is somewhat strained, in view of the
lact that he does not attend as commissioner, and that no
allowance is ever made to a commissioner for attendance except when hearing and deciding criminal cases himself. If no
allowance be made by statute to commissioners or to chief
supervisors for attendance or mileage it is difficult to see
upon what theory the petitioner is entitled to it.

6. Certain items for stationery allowed by the court below
are objected to by the Attorney General, but are properly
allowable under that clause of section 2026 which requires the
Chief Supervisor to prepare and furnish all necessary books,
forms, blanks and instructions for the use and direction of
supervisors. What shall be deemed necessary forms and
blanks must be left to a certain extent to the court passing
upon the question, and we should not feel authorized to disturb such allowance unless its discretion were abused. As
the petitioner made no charge for drawing these instructions
to supervisors, to which he would have been entitled under our
ruling in United States v lfcYDermott, he is at least entitled to
the expense of printing them.
The judgment of the court below must be vacated and set
astde, and a new judgment entered -, conformity with this
OT M? on.

UNITED STATES .v. BARBER.
APPEAL FROM THE msTRIC

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOl

THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA33AMA.
No. 1164.

Argued and submitted March 12,13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

On the authority of United States v. Ewing, ante, 142, the appellee's fees as
commissioner of the Circuit Court for the MKiddle District of Alabama,
acting in criminal cases, are allowed for " drawing complaints;" in con-

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.
nection with recognizances of defendants for examination, and to recognizances of witnesses, and to the charge per folio for depositions taken
on examination, and on the authority of United States v. McDerraott,
ante, 151, the fees for administering oaths and for each 3urat are allowed.
The appellee is also entitled to a fee for filing a complaint; to charge per
folio for pav rolls of witnesses; and to charge per folio for transcripts of
proceedings when the originals are not sent up; but he is not allowed
to charge for filing and entering every declaration, etc., if several are
attached together.
When a series of sheets are attached together, they form a single paper
within the meaning of the law.

Tis action was brought to recover fees in 149 criminal
cases in which certain proceedings were had before the appellee, as commissioner of the Circuit Court for the Middle District of Alabama. The items of the several services were set
out in a bill of particulars, which was admitted to be correct,
the district attorney interposing a demurrer to the petition for
the purpose of securing a judicial determination of the legality
of the .several charges. Judgment having been entered in
favor of the petitioner for $802.09, an appeal was taken by
the United States to this court.
.fA John C. Chaney for appellant. _XW Assistant Attorney
General Cotton was with him on the brief.
M 1R. 1. .lafahon and .AE'
submitted on their brief.

IV T Dudley for appellee

Iii. Juseioi BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.
It was admitted that the petitioner was a commissioner of
the Circuit Court, that he actually and necessarily performed
the services set forth in his petition, and that his accounts
containing those charges were duly approved by the District
Court, as required by law Objection was made by the government to the allowance of the following items:
1. "Drawing complaints." In the case of United States v
Ewing, ante, 142, we held that where the local practice required
a magistrate to reduce the examination of the complaining witnesses to writing, an allowance for drawing the complaint,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

as "for taking and certifying depositions to file," was a proper
charge under Rev Stat. § 847. By § 4256 of the Code of
Alabama, it has provided that "upon a complaint being made
to any one of the magistrates specified in section 4680, that
such offence has in the opinion of the complainant, been committed, the magistrate must examine the complainant and
such witnesses as he may propose, on oath, take their depositions an writing, and cause them to be subscribed by the persons malting them." By § 4257 "the depositions must set
forth the facts stated by this complainant and his witnesses
tending to establish the commission of the offence and the
guilt of the defendant." Under these sections it is made the
duty of the committing magistrate to reduce the deposition or
complaint of the principal witness or witnesses to writing, and
we see no reason why he should not be paid therefor. This
was the view of the Court of Claims of a similar claim made
under the practice of Alabama in the case of Ravesmes v
United States, 24 C. C1. 224. The objection to this item is
therefore overruled.
(a.) Petitioner is also allowed a fee of 10 cents for each
oath administered in connection with these complaints, and
15 cents for each jurat, as for a certificate.

Ui'rted States v

leiDermott, ante, 151.

(b.) He is also entitled to a fee of 10 cents for filing such
complaint, under § 847 and under the clause of § 828, "for
filing and entering every declaration, plea or other paper, 10
cents."

2. No objection is made by the government to the second
series of items for issuing 45 warrants at $1 each, entering

128 returns thereon at 15 cents per folio, and filing such warrants at 10 cents each, nor to the charges for like services in
connection with the issuing and return of subpcenas.
3. The fourth series of items relates to charges in connection with the recognizances of defendants for examination.

We have already held in Un ted States v Ewzng, ante, 142,
that a charge for the acknowledgment of recognizances was
proper, though but one acknowledgment for each recognizance
can be allowed. There is no valid objection to the allowance

UNITED STATES v. BARBER.
Opinion of the Court.

for the oaths of sureties and the jurats to such oaths. It is
usual and proper to require that persons offering themselves
as sureties for the appearance of the accused in court shall

justify to their pecuniary responsibility, and the expense of
their so doing stands upon the same footing as the recognizance
itself. It is true that the taking of recognizance or bail for

appearance is primarily, for the benefit of the defendant, and
in civil cases it is usual to require the costs of entering into
such recognizances to be paid by the defendant or other person
offering himself as surety But in criminal cases it is for the
interest of the public as well as the accused that the latter
should not be detained m custody prior to his trial, if the
government can be assured of his presence at that time, and
as these persons usually belong to the poorest class of people,
to require them to pay the cost of their recognizances would
generally result in their being detained in jail at the expense
of the government, while their families would be deprived, in
many instances, of their assistance and support. Presumptively they are innocent of the crime charged, and entitled to
their constitutional privilege of being admitted to bail, and as
the whole proceeding is adverse to them, the expense connected with their being admitted to bail .is a proper charge
against the government.
4. The same rule will apply to recognizances of witnesses
summoned at the expense of the government.
5. The charge per folio for pay rolls of witnesses is proper,
as well as the charge of 10 cents for each oath administered
to a witness in support of his claim for attendance and mileage.
6. The charge per folio for transcripts of proceedings is
lawful under Revised Statutes, § 1014, which provides that
" copies of the process (issued by the commissioner) shall be
returned as speedily as may be into the clerk's office of such
court, together with the recognizances of the witnesses for
their appearance to testify in the case." In most districts it
is the habit of commissioners to send up the original proceedings before them, a practice to which there seems to be no
objection, conducing, as it does, to a diminution of expenses
to the government, but where the reqmrements of section

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

1014 are literally adhered to, the expense of preparing such
transcript is a proper charge against the government.
7. The charge per folio for depositions taken on examination is, we think, fairly allowable, upon the same principle on
which we have allowed it for preparing complaints. Section
4286 of the Criminal Code of Alabama requires that "the evidence of witnesses examined must be reduced to writing by the
magistrate, or under his direction, and signed by the witnesses.
respectively" As there is no special provision for the allowance of a charge for such evidence, it may be considered as a
deposition within § 847, for the taking and certifying of which
the commissioner is entitled to 20 cents per folio. We held &
similar charge to be proper in the case of United States v.
Ewng, ante, 142.
8. But the charge for filing such depositions should be disallowed. Section 828 allows "for filing and entering every declaration, plea or other paper, 10 cents." Each deposition is not
necessarily a "paper " within the meaning of this clause. If
two or more depositions are embraced in a single paper, or a,
series of sheets are attached together, they form but a single
paper, within the meaning of the law We had occasion recently to pass upon this question in the case of Schell's Executors v Fauche,138 U. S. 562, where two letters pasted together
were'held to constitute but one in law
These embrace all the items to which objection is made by
the Attorney General. It remains, that upon being modified
by deducting the last item of $10.80, the judgment of the court
below must be
.Afirmed.

