OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

should have been produced from the grain or molasses so used
in excess." Rev. Stat. § 3309. The expression, "the capacity
of his distillery as estimated according to law," clearly refers
to the real capacity as thus ascertained, and not to a fictitious
capacity for any particular day or days.
As the judgment of the court below was based upon the
view taken by the counsel of the government, we think it was
erroneous, and must be reversed. The judgment is accordingly
Reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter
and take such further proceedjudgmentfor thelantf,
sngs as may le 'n accordance with thts otnion.

NEW

ORLEANS

v. LOUISIANA
COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

CONSTRUCTION

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRiCT OF LOUISIANA.

No. 435. Submitted November 11,

1889.-Decided May 25, 1891.

The destination or character of spaces of ground, part of the public quay
or levee in the city of New Orleans, dedicated to public use, and locus
jpublicus by the law of Louisiana, is not changed so as to make them private property subject to be taken on execution for the debts of the city,
by a lease made pursuant to an ordinance of the city, by which the city
grants to an individual the exclusive right for twenty-five years to use
such spaces, designated by the city surveyor, and not nearer than one
hundred and fifty feet to the present wharves, for the purpose of erecting thereon, for the shelter of sugar and molasses landed at the quay,
fire-proof sheds, "with such accommodations and conveniences for the
transaction of business as may be necessary;" and also grants to him
the exclusive privilege of sheltering sugar and molasses landed at the
port; and authorizes him to charge prescribed rates on the sugar and
molasses sheltered under the sheds, and, in case those sheds "shall not
be of sufficient capacity to meet the demands of increased production, or
the requirements of commerce," to erect additional sheds on spaces to
be designated by the city; he agrees to keep the sheds in repair, and tp
pay the city one-tenth of such charges; the sheds are to revert to the
city on certain terms at the end of the lease; and right is reserved to
the wharfinger to enforce existing regulations against encumbering the
quay, and to the city to open or extend streets:

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION CO. 655
Statement of the Case.
THE city of New Orleans, against which the Louisiana Construction Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania, had recovered a judgment for $50,000, filed a petition of intervention
and of third opposition, according to the Louisiana practice,
to have the seizure and sale, upon an execution issued on that
judgment, of the interest of the city in four spaces of ground,
part of the public quay or levee, and in certain sugar sheds
thereon, prohibited and set aside, because the ground was
"locus publicus, and the ground and sheds were, when seized
and long prior thereto, and now are, exclusively devoted to
public use, that is, to the purposes of commerce."
At the trial before the jury, it was proved that the spaces
of ground on which the sugar sheds stood were between the
front row of houses and the Mississippi River, and were part
of the ground dedicated as locuspublicus in the plans of the
city made before the cession of Louisiana to the United States;
that the spaces covered by the sheds had, in 1869 and for years
before, been in actual and exclusive public use as the levee or
landing place for the sugar and molasses brought to the city in
steamboats and other vessels, there being no covering for the
sugar and molasses when landed, that on August 14, 1869,
the city made a lease for twenty-five years of these spaces of
ground to Francis B. Fleitas, pursuant to, and following the
words of, an ordinance of the city council, which is copied in
the margin, 1 that the lessee accepted the lease, erected the

I Mayoralty of New Orleans, City Hall, August 14, 1869.
No. 1528, N. S.
An ordinance to provide for the shelter and protection of sugar and molasses received at the port of New Orleans.
SEc. 1. Be it ordained by the common council of the city of New Orleans, that Francis B. Fleitas shall have and enjoy for the period of twentyfive years the exclusive right and privilege of using the public spaces on
the levee, in the second district of this city, between Custom-house and St.
Louis streets, commonly known as the Sugar landing - said spaces being
designated on a plan of the city surveyor, to be by him submitted to the
committee on streets and landings on or before the 15th day of September
in the year 1869 -for the purpose of erecting and constructing thereon
fire-proof sheds for the reception and shelter of sugar and molasses, according to the plans and specifications of the city surveyor on the day aforesaid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

sheds and had been in possession thereof ever since, that,
save and except these sheds, the ground between the front
which sheds, with such arrangements for the transaction of business as
may be convenient, are to be constructed on or before the 1st day of November, 1871, unless the construction be interfered with or prevented by
extraordinary accident or calamity, from which time said privilege and
right is to commence to run, Provided, that said Fleitas, immediately after
the passage of this ordinance, shall have the right to enter upon and use
the said spaces for the purposes of construction as aforesaid.
SEc. 2. Be it further ordained, that the terms and conditions on which
said right and privilege are granted are the following1st. Said sheds are to be erected, with such accommodations and conveniences for the transaction of business as may be necessary, by said
Fleitas, at his own cost, and free of expense to the city of New Orleans,
and during the existence of said privilege he is to keep said sheds in good
order and repair at his own expense.
2d. Said Fleitas is allowed to charge, during the term said privilege is
to last under the provisions of this ordinance, a sum not exceeding twentyfive cents on every hogshead of sugar, and fifteen cents on every barrel of
molasses, sheltered under said shed, and no other charge for shelter is to
be made, unless the packages aforesaid, after being under cover, shall
change hands; then he is allowed to charge, each and every time such
package changes hands while under cover, fifteen cents for each hogshead
of sugar, and five cents for each barrel of molasses, at the time of transferProvided, that this last-mentioned charge is to be paid by each transferee
or purchaser, and shall not be made when the sugar or molasses transferred
or sold shall be removed by such transferee or purchaser on the same day
he acquired title; Provided further, that sugar and molasses in other packages than hogsheads and barrels shall be subject to pro rata charges.
3d. That said Fleitas shall pay to the city of New Orleans, as a consideration for said privilege during the term aforesaid, ten per centum of the
gross amount of charges realized for shelter on each hogshead of sugar
and each barrel of molasses placed under said sheds, the said per cent to be
paid quarterly, on statements rendered under oath to the treasurer of the
city of New Orleans; Provided, that said sheds and the revenues or income
derived therefrom or from said privilege shall not be subject to any municipal taxation whatever during the existence of said privilege.
4th. In addition to the above consideration, the said sheds, at the expiration of said term of twenty-five years, are to be appraised at their then
cash value in the manner following: One appraiser to be appointed by the
said Fleitas or his representatives, successors or assigns, and the other by
the city of New Orleans. In case of disagreement, the two thus selected
shall call in a third disinterested person as umpire; and the appraisement
thus made shall be conclusive and binding on all parties; and the city of
New Orleans shall have the option to take said sheds at one-half of said

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION CO. 657
Statement of the Case.

row of houses and the river remained open and unobstructed
as before, and that the spaces and sheds had been always and
appraised value, or of extending the privileges herein granted, on the same
terms as those herein specified, for the further period of fifteen years,
except that at the expiration of said fifteen years said sheds are to revert
to the city in full ownership, free of all cost. In case the city of New
Orleans, within three months after the expiration of said twenty-five years,
shall fail or refuse to appoint an appraiser, it shall be considered as having
exercised the option to extend the privilege aforesaid for fifteen years
longer; and in case the said Fleitas, his representatives, successors or assigns, shall, within one month after the city shall have appointed its appraiser, fail or refuse to appoint an appraiser on his behalf, the city shall
have the right of appointing two additional appraisers, whose appraisement
shall be final, and said Fleitas shall receive one-half of the appraised value
of said sheds from the city. On the presentation of the decision of the
appraisers provided for in this clause, and on the payment of the said onehalf of the said appraised value, the sheds and spaces on which they are
erected as aforesaid shall be surrendered and transferred to the city of
New Orleans.
SEC. 3. Be it further ordained, that the city of New Orleans hereby guarantees to said Fleitas, his representatives, successors or assigns, during the
term of his privilege and its extension, the following.
1st. The undisturbed possession of said public spaces and the sheds
thereon erected.
2d. That the present landing for sugar and molasses shall remain where
it now is and as designated on the plans aforesaid.
3d. That no other landing for sugar and molasses shall be established or
allowed for the city or port of New Orleans.
4th. That no other privilege for the reception and shelter for sugar or
molasses shall be allowed by the city.
SEC. 4. Be it further ordained, that, in case the sheds erected under the
provisions of this ordinance shall not be of sufficient capacity to meet the
demands of increased production, or the requirements of commerce, the said
Fleitas shall have the right to increase the number of sheds, said additional
shed§ to be erected on such spaces as the city may designate and on such
terms as may be agreed on; Provided, that if said additional sheds are
erected within ten years from the 1st November, 1871, the cost thereof is to
be paid by the said Fleitas, his representatives, successors or assigns; and
said additional sheds are to revert to the city at the expiration Of twentyfive years from the date of construction, on the same terms in regard to
appraisement and the option to extend the privilege of using the same as if
the said additional sheds were originally constructed under this ordinance,
and all the terms and stipulations of this ordinance shall be considered
applicable to them in the same manner and to the same extent as they are
herein applied to the original sheds.
VOL. c-.-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Statement of the Case.

exclusively used to receive sugar and molasses landed from
steamboats and other vessels, as provided in.the ordinance and
lease.
The city offered evidence tending to show that said spaces
were essential to the public use for the commerce of the port
to receive said sugar and molasses. The Louisiana Construction Company offered evidence tending to show that these
spaces were not necessary for public uses, and were not used
for the landing of the sugar and molasses, and that the city
exercised no control over the sheds; and also, to show the
location of the sheds, offered in evidence a modern map by
which it appeared that the space between them and the river
was about one hundred and fifty feet, and was open to the
public and traversed by railroad tracks. It was admitted that
the spaces occupied by the sugar sheds, as well as the space
between them and the wharves, were alluvion.
The city requested the court to instruct the jury that "the
character of locuspublZtcus, impressed upon ground within the
city of New Orleans devoted to public use, cannot be changed,
except by an act of the legislature of the State authorizing
said change, and hence that the city of New Orleans, without
such legislative authority, had no power to change the character of a locus publicus, and thereby make said locus publicus
subject to seizure and sale on execution for the debts- of the
city"
The city also requested the court to instruct the jury that if
they found that the ground seized and sold on the execution
issued on the judgment in favor of the Louisiana Construction
SEC. 5. Be it further ordained, that said Fleitas shall give security in the
sum of fifty thousand dollars for the faithful performance of the stipulations herein contained.
SEc. 6. Be it further ordained, that the wharfinger shall have the right,
at any time when the levee is encumbered, to enforce the now existing regulations.
Src. 7. Be it further ordained, that the sheds shall not be located nearer
than one hundred and fifty feet to the present wooden work or wharves.
SEc. 8. Be it further ordained, that, if at any time the city should desire
to open or extend any street, the privilege hereby granted shall not in any
manner prevent said street from being opened or extended.

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION CO. 659
Statement of the Case.

Company "was locuspublicus, as a portion of the public levee
of this city, dedicated to the common use of the inhabitants of
the city, to serve the public purposes of a levee and landing
place for the sugar and molasses brought to this port by steamboats and other vessels navigating the Mississippi River, and
if the jury find that in 1869 the city of New Orleans leased
said spaces for the term of twenty-five years under ordinances
of the city council and the contract with the lessee that he
should erect over said spaces sugar sheds for the accommodation and protection of the aforesaid sugar and molasses
landed from said steamboats and other vessels, the lessee to
have the right to collect dues upon the sugar and molasses
deposited under said sheAs, for and in consideration of the
accommodation and protection afforded by said sheds to said
sugar and molasses, the city to be paid a percentage of said
dues-annually, and the sheds to revert and belong to said city
at the end of said lease, as appears by said ordinances and
contract in evidence, and if the jury find that said sheds were
so constructed, and at and before the date of said adjudication, ever since 1869, the said spaces of ground and sheds
were used for said purposes and for no other purposes, then
the erection of said sheds upon and the use of said spaces, as
provided by said contract and ordinances, did not change the
character of said spaces as part of the public levee or locus
public st, and make said spaces and sheds over them liable to
seizure and sale on execution for the debts of the city, and
any sudh seizure and adjudication was illegal and passed no
title to the purchaser."
The court declined to give either of the instructions requested, and instead thereof instructed the jury as follows
"The space upon which the sugar sheds, the reversion of
the title to which has been seized under a writ of fier facmas
in this case, was, prior to August 14, 1869, upon the undisputed facts, established a lacuspublicus.
14By the undisputed evidence it is established that said
space was a portion of what is called the ' batture,' which is
the alluvial land between that portion of the city of Nqew
Orleans and the Mississippi River, and was a locus publicus

OCTOBER TERMt,

1890.

Statement of the Case.

at, the time when Louisiana was acquired by the United
-S.totes.
.'"There is no doubt of the correctness of the general proposition that a public place is inalienable except by the sovereign, but a public place which is a portion of the batture,
according to the well settled jurisprudence of this State, has a
distinctive quality impressed upon it, and may be withdrawn
from the use of the public by the city This qualification is
seen to be a public necessity when we consider that, by the
action of the vast stream which half encircles the city, the
levees may be so widened as that, unless a portion of them
were used for buildings and the inhabited city extended over
them, the city itself would possibly be left at an inconvenient
distance from the river. Accordingly we find, both in the
decisions of the highest tribunal of the State and in the act of
the legislature, a clear recognition of the authority of the city
to withdraw from the public use any portion of the batture
which it deems no longer neressary to be held for that purpose.
"Therefore the court instructs you that it was lawful for
the city of New Orleans to withdraw the said space from the
public and to make it private property while it was a locus
pumlicus. The fee was in the city and the use was in the
public, and the question of fact for you to decide is whether
the city did ilot by the contract or lease of the date of August
14, 1869, withdraw said space from the public use as being no
longer necessary for the public.
"It is to be observed that the said contract gives to the
grantee or lessee 'the exclusive right of using the public
spaces,' and gives to him 'undisturbed possession of said public spaces and the sheds thereon erected.' Said sheds are to be
for the purpose of storing sugar and molasses. There is no
condition or requirement, insaid grant or lease, which requires
the grantee or lessee to receive up to the capacity of the sheds
the sugar and molasses of any person offering, or which prevents him from any degree of discrimination, that is, he may
store the products of one man and refuse those of another,
although his store is not full. The contract reserves a royalty

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION CO. '661
Opinion of the Court.

as a rent. The possession thus granted is to continue for the
period of twenty-five years. The contract protected the public by the provision that ' the sheds shall not be located nearer
than one hundred and fifty feet to the present wooden work
or wharves.'
"If you find this contract was executed by the city of New
Orleans and was accepted by the grantee or lessee, and that
he went into possession at the time of its execution, and ever
since remained under it in possession, (and there is no dispute
about these facts,) then the court instructs you there has been
such a change in the destination of the property in question,
such a withdrawal of it from the public, as makes it property
held by the city for its own use and not that of the public,
and makes its reversion liable to seizure on the part of a creditor of the city of New Orleans, and your verdict would be
for the plaintiff in the writ and against the intervener and
third opponent."
The jury returned a verdict against the city, on which judgment was rendered, and the city duly excepted to the refusals
to instruct as requested, and to the instructions given, and
sued out this writ of error. A motion to dismiss the writ of
error, on the ground that the case should have been brought
up by appeal, was overruled at a former term. 129 U. S. 45.
.Mr Carleton Hunt and Ar' -Henry C. Miller for plaintiff
in error.
.Mr

. Howard 2M Caleb for defendant in error.

MR. JusTicE GRAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Upon the admitted facts of this case, it is undisputed, and
indisputable, that the spaces of land in question were originally part of the public quay or levee in New Orleans, dedicated
to public use, and, in the phrase of the law of Louisiana., locus
publius, and that they never ceased to be such, so as to become private property subject to be taken on execution for
debt, unless by force of the ordinance and lease of the city

OCTOBER TERXS 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

Civil Code, arts. 454 (445), 458 (449),
lfayor v Magnon, 4
Martin, 2, Mayor v Hopkmns, 13 Louisiana, 326, Aew Orleans
& CarrolltonRailroadv First Munt'&ality, 7 La. Ann. 148.
Two questions have been argued First, whether the city
of New Orleans had power to dispose of the land, so as to
change its destination or character as locus publicus, and make
the land its own private property 2 Second, whether the city
has done so 2
Upon consideration of the opinions heretofore delivered by
this court and by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, the solution
of the first question appears to be not wholly free from doubt.
New Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662, Board of _Lquidatzoi v Louisville & Nashville Railroad,19 U. S. 221, Packwood v Walden, 7 Martin (N. S.) 81, Delabzgarre v Second
.Auntcvpality, 3 La. Ann. 230, Parshv Second .Jfunwipality,
8 La. Ann. 145. See also New Orleans v M worrs, 3 Woods,
103, Hart v. -Yew Orleans, 12 Fed. Rep. 292. We abstain
from expressing any opinion upon that question, because it is
unnecessary to the decision of this case, inasmuch as we are of
opinion that, if .the city had the power contended for, it has
not exercised it.
The object of the ordinance, as declared in its title, and
recited in the lease, is "to provide for the shelter and protection of sugar and molasses received at the port of New
Orleans."
By the terms of the ordinance, repeated in the
lease, the city grants the exclusive right for twenty-five years
to use four public spaces, designated by the city surveyor, and
not nearer than one hundred and fifty feet to the present
wharves, on the levee commonly known as the Sugar Landing,
for the purpose of erecting and constructing thereon fire-proof
sheds, according to the plans of the city surveyor, for the reception and shelter of sugar and molasses, and the further
right, in case these sheds "shall not be of sufficient capacity
to meet the demands of increased production, or the requirements of commerce," to erect additional sheds on spaces to be
designated by the city The city guarantees to the lessee that
he shall have undisturbed possession of the spaces and of the
sheds erected thereon, that the sheds and the revenues derived

NEW ORLEANS v. LOUISIANA CONSTRUCTION CO. 663
Opinion of the Court.

therefrom shall not be subject to municipal taxation during
the existence of the privilege, that the present landing for
sugar and molasses shall remain where it now is, as designated
on the plan aforesaid, and that no other landing for sugar or
molasses, or privilege for its reception and shelter, shall be
established or allowed by the city The lessee agrees to erect
the sheds, "with such accommodations and conveniences for the
transaction of business.as may be necessary," and to keep them
in repair, at his own expense, is authorized to charge certain
prescribed rates on each hogshead or barrel, or other package,
of sugar or molasses sheltered under the sheds, and agrees to
pay to the city one-tenth of the gross amount of such charges,
and to give security in the sum of $50,000 for the faithful performance of the contract.
It is further provided that the
wharfinger shall have the right, at any time when the levee is
encumbered, to enforce the now existing regulations, and that
the privilege granted by the lease shall not in any manner prevent the city from opening or extending streets at its pleasure.
At the end of the twenty-five years, the city is to have the
option of terminating the lease and taking the sheds at half
their appraised value, or of extending the lease for fifteen years,
at the end of which the sheds shall revert to the city free of
all cost.
Among the public uses for which the quay or levee was
established, and to which it was devoted, was the landing of
sugar and molasses brought by the Mississippi River to the
port of New Orleans in the regular course of commerce and
navigation. The real and the declared purpose of the ordinance and of the lease was to secure the necessary shelter for
the sugar and molasses so brought and landed. The various
stipulations of the contract, including the grant, to the lessee
of the exclusive use of the sheds and of the spaces under them,
and the exclusive privilege of receiving and sheltering sugar
and molasses at the port, were intended and adapted to accomplish this purpose, with the greatest benefit to the public, and
with the least expense to the city The shelter of the sugar
and molasses from the weather was not a new and distinct
use, nor in any sense a private one, but was incidental to the

OCTOBER TElM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

principal public use of landing these articles of commerce.
The sheds for sheltering the goods were as subservient to
the public use of the quay, as the wharves for landing
them.
The provisions requiring the lessee to erect the sheds "with
such accommodations and conveniences for the transaction of
business as may be necessary," and authorizing hin to erect
additional sheds, in case those first erected "shall not be of
sufficient capacity to meet the demands of increased production, or the requirements of commerce," as well as the provision defining and limiting the rates which he may charge
for sheltering the goods, clearly show that he was to exercise
a quasz public employment, and was charged with a duty of
accommodating the public, like a wharfinger, a warehouseman
or a common carrier, and had no right to refuse to shelter, to
the reasonable capacity of the sheds, the sugar or molasses
of any one applying to him, and paying him the prescribed
rates.
The city has not undertaken to alienate or sell the ground
under the sheds, but has only leased it for a term of years,
reverting at the end of that term, with the sheds built thereon,
to the city for the benefit of the public. The ground has no
more ceased to be devoted to the public use by the making of
the lease and the erection of the sheds, than if the city had
itself built and managed the sheds for the promotion of commerce and the benefit of the city and its inhabitants.
Moreover, the use of the levee for the equally important
public use of a highway is carefully guarded by the provisions
that the sheds shall not be nearer than one hundred and fifty
feet to the existing wharves, that the existing regulations
against encumbering the levee may be enforced by the wharfluger and that the city may extend existing streets, or open
new ones, notwithstanding any privileges granted by this
contract.
Taking all the provisions of the lease together, we are of
opinion that it in no way affected the character of the spaces
in question as locus publicus, and that the city had no such
private interest in those spaces, or in the sheds built upon

MORMON CHURCH v. UNITED STATES.
Decree.

them, as could be seized and sold on execution for the debts
of the city
Decree reversed, and case remanded wth direatwns to enter
judgrnentfor the coty of New Orleans.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

and MR.

JUSTICE

BRowx took no part

in the decision of this case.

THE LATE CORPORATION OF THE CHURCH
OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
v. UNITED STATES.
ROM NEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREIME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTA.
Nos. 695, 715.

Decided May 19, 1890.- Reported 136 U. S. 1.-Decree entered May 25, 1S91.

The court now orders a decree entered in this case, for which purpose it was
reserved at the last term. See Mormon Church v. United States, 136
U. S. 1, 66.
DECREE.

THE decree entered in this case on the 19th day of May,
1890, having been set aside by an order of the court made on
the 23d day of May, 1890, it is now upon further consideration
ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the decree of the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Utah be affirmed with the following
modification, that is to say that the seventh clause of said
decree be changed and modified so as to read as follows:
[7th. And the court does further adjudge and decree that
the late corporation of the Church of Jesus Christ of LatterDay Saints having become by law dissolved as aforesaid, there
did not exist at its dissolution, and do not now exist, any
trusts or purposes within the objects and purposes for which
said personal property was originally acquired, as hereinbefore
set out, whether said acquisition was by purchase or donation,
to or for which said personalty or any part thereof could be

