GRAND TRUTNK

AILWAY C0. v. WADE.

Opinion of the Court.

ILLINOIS GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY COMPANY
WADE.

.

ApPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
INo. 251. Submitted March 24,1891.-Decided April 27,1891.

June 25, 1870, the town of Lamoille voted to subscribe $30,000 to the stock
of appellant, and August 6, 1870, voted to subscribe $10,000 additional
thereto. February 1, 1871, the town subscribed $40,000 thereto, issued
40 bonds of $1000 each in payment thereof, and received $40,000 in stock.
The company parted with the bonds, and the same were sold for 90 cents
on the dollar, and the majority of them came into possession of the appellee. The $10,000 additional subscription was held void as violating
the provisions of the Constitution of Illinois, adopted July 2, 1870.
Thereupon the appellee filed this bill against the town and the railway
company tendering the bonds for surrender and cancellation, and praying that $10,000 of the stock held by the *companyshould be transferred
to him. A decree was entered in accordance with the prayer of the bill,
from which the railway company only appealed. Held,
(1) That the plaintiff~s rights, so far as concerned the town, rested on
the decree which the town had not appealed from, and there was
no matter of subrogation to be considered in the controversy with
the railway company;
(2) That the railway company having parted with the bonds for consideration, had no equities which it could set up as against the
claim of the plaintiff,
(3) That there was no question of laches or limitation,
(4) That it was too late to raise the ob3ection that these matters could
not be combined in one suit.

IN EQUITY.

The case is stated in the opinion.

Xr John J Berrw7k for appellant.
-H' George A. Sanders and 31r Thomas S. .e Lolelland for
appellee.
MM.

JUSTICE

BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The Illinois Grand Trunk Railway Company was incorporated in 1867, under a special charter granted by the legisVOL. CXL-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

lature of the State of Illinois. On June 25, 1870, the town of
Lamoille voted to subscribe to the capital stock of the railway
company to the amount of thirty thousand dollars, and to

issue in payment therefor its bonds, payable in ten years, of
equal amount. On August 6, 1870, another election was held,
at which the town voted to subscribe the further sum of ten
thousand dollars to the stock of the railway company, and to

issue its bonds, m equal amount, m payment therefor. On
February 1, 1871, in pursuance of these two elections, a subscription on behalf of the town was made, and its forty bonds,
for the sum of one thousand dollars each, were executed and
delivered to the railway company, and a certificate for forty
thousand dollars of capital stock was issued by the railway
company and delivered to the town. These bonds were payable "to bearer," and when received by the railway company
were transferred by it to the Chicago, Burlington and Quincy
Railroad Company, and by the latter were sold at ninety cents
on the dollar. Thereafter, and in 1871, the appellee bought
the majority of these bonds, including therein the whole of
the last ten thousand dollars thereof from Jacob R. Shepherd
& Co., paying ninety-nine cents on the dollar.
No question is made as to the sufficiency or validity of this
transfer, or as to the fact that the appellee acquired all the
title of the Illinois Grand Trunk Railway Company, the
original obligee in the bonds. It appears that on July 2, 1870,
this section of the Illinois constitution of 1870, which had been
separately submitted to and adopted by a vote of the people,
went into effect
":No county, city, town, township or other municipality,
shall ever become subscriber to the capital stock of any railroad or private corporation, or make donation to or loan its
credit in aid of such corporation Prornded, however, That
the adoption of this article shall not be construed as affecting
the right of any such municipality to make such subscriptions
where the same have been authorized, under existing laws, by
a vote of the people of such municipalities prior to such
adoption." Starr & Curtis' Stat. vol. 1, 167.
The effect of the adoption of this section was to render void

GRA-ND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. WADE.
Opinion of the Court.

the action of the town on August 6, and invalidate the ten
thousand dollars of bonds issued in pursuance of that vote.
lfade v WValnut, 105 U. S. 1, and cases cited in the opinion
On March 28, 1885, Wade, the holder of these ten thousand
dollars of void bonds, filed his bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Illinois, against the
town of Lamoille and the Illinois Grand Trunk iRailway Company, in which bill he tendered the bonds to the town for surrender and cancellation, and prayed that ten thousand dollars
of the forty thousand dollars of stock issued by the railway
company to the town be transferred to him. Both the town
and the railway company filed answers; the town simply
putting the plaintiff to proof of his allegations, and asking
that if the plaintiff be decreed the title to the stock, the decree,
so far as the town is concerned, be at his costs and on condition
of the surrender and cancellation of the bonds. The railway
company answered, denying at length the principal allegations
of plaintiff's bill, and pleading laches and limitation, in addition, as a defence. After the testimony had been taken, and
on Tune 21:, 1887, a decree was entered in favor of the plaintiff, substantially directing that Wade deposit in the office of
the clerk of the Circuit Court, for the benefit of the town, the
ten thousand dollars of bonds and their coupons, and that
thereupon he be put into possession of ten thousand dollars of
the stock of the railway company held by the town. From
this decree the railway company alone prosecutes an appeal,
the town being content to abide by its terms. In this respect
it may be noticed that the plaintiff in his bill alleged that the
people of the town of Lamoille were willing that he should
have all the benefit and advantage which he could derive from
,said stock, but that the officers of the town refused to deliver
the certificate. Appellant relies largely upon the case of
.,EtnaLife Insurance Company v -Middleport, 121 U S. 534,
and contends that under the authority of that case the plaintiff could not be subrogated to the rights of the town in this
ten thousand dollars of stock. It also contends that the subscription by the town to that amount of stock, and the issue
by the railway company thereof, was itself a void transaction,

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

and conferred no title on the town thereto, and, finally, that
laches and limitation constituted a good defence to plaintiff's
claim.
Assuming that the first contention of appellant might be of
force if the town had joined in the appeal, we are of opinion
that it is a defence which the railway company alone cannot
now make. By the decree, the rights of the town to that
stock have been transferred to the plaintiff. The town not
challenging the decree, it is final, and the plaintiff, in respect
to the rights of the town in the stock, stands in the same attitude that he would stand if the town had voluntarily transferred
it to him. The railway company has no interest in protecting
the rights of the town. It could not interfere to prevent a
voluntary transfer of the stock, and it cannot be heard to say
that the town shall not abide by the terms of that decree, so
that the present appeal is to be considered by us precisely as
though the town had voluntarily transferred the stock to the
plaintiff, or as though he had in a different suit, and by a
prior decree, obtained a transfer of its interest. There is,
therefore, no matter of subrogation to be considered, and no
inquiry into the extent to which this doctrine could be applied.
The plaintiff has all the rights that the town had. Under
those circumstances, can the railway company challenge this
decree , It insists that the whole transaction in respect to the
ten thousand dollars of stock between the town and itself was
void, but the facts, as disclosed, are, that there were two
votes to subscribe, one on June 25, for thirty thousand dollars,
and one on August 6, for ten thousand dollars, of stock. The
validity of the first vote, and of the bonds issued thereunder,
is not challenged. No separate subscriptions were made, but
on ITebruary 1, 187'1, one subscription of forty thousand dollars was made by the town, and one certificate for four hundred shares of one hundred dollars each, issued by the railway
company to the town. Can the legal title of the town to these
four hundred shares be doubted 9 Clearly not. It has paid
therefor thirty thousand dollars of valid securities. If it has
not paid in full for the four hundred shares, it has paid seventyfive per cent of the amount due therefor, and its title acquired

GRAND TRUNK RAILWAY CO. v. WADE.
Opinion of the Court.

thereby was good.

Whatever rights the railway company

might have if the ten thousand dollars of bonds had been
declared void while in its hands, or if it bad not sold them and
received consideration for them from other parties, or if, having received consideration, it had returned the same and taken
up the bonds when they were declared void, and now tendered
them back to the town, need not be considered. It is enough
that it took the forty thousand dollars of bonds as payment
for this subscription for an equal amount of stock, that it disposed of those bonds and received value therefor, and that it
has never offered to return the void bonds to the town, and
never taken any proceedings to assert its equitable rights, if
any it had, in the stock. The equity of plaintiff's claim is
manifest. The railway company received all the bonds -the
void as well as the valid - on the same terms, and as payment
dollar for dollar, for the stock it issued. It transferred all the
bonds, receiving the same consideration for one as for the
other. The party who took these bonds from it sold the entire series, and received ninety cents on the dollar, and so,
by subsequent sales, they passed from one to another until the
major part of the whole series reached the plaintiff. The railway company has never returned any of the consideration it
received, or been called upon to pay back a single dollar,
neither has any one of the subsequent vendees. The plaintiff,
and the plantiff alone, is the one out of money, and now,
when he proposes to take this stock for the money which he
has paid out, and thus close the entire transaction, the railway
company objects. It received these bonds as valid, it got full
value for them, and still objects that the town ought not to be
permitted to do justice to the party who has unfortunately
parted with his money for these void securities. If ever there
was a case in which no wrong was done, and justice and equity
are meted out to all the parties, this is such a case.
In regard to the last contention, it is enough to say that the
rights of complainant as against the railway company may be
considered as having been for the first tine established by the
decree, and surely in that light there isno question of ]aches
or limitation. If it be objected that, therefore, when the bill

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

was filed in the first instance no right existed in plaintiff, as
against the railway company, it is enough to say that no
objection was made on the ground that plaintiff had not yet
acquired therights of the town. It may be true that for all
the relief claimed, and in view of the fact that the stock was
all included in one certificate, the railway company was a necessary party to the suit, and yet it cannot be doubted that
the plaintiff could, in a separate proceeding against the town
alone, have established his right to one-fourth of the four hundred shares, and thereafter filed his bill to compel a recognition by the railway company of this right. No objection was
made to combining these matters in one suit, and it is now too
late to raise the objection.
The decree of the Circuit Court was right, and it is
Ajfirmed.

The CHIEF JUSTIcE did not participate in the consideration
and decision of this case.

N'lo. 252. ILLINOIs GRAND TRUNKi

RAILWAY COMPANY V. WADE.

Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northera District of Illinois, submitted M£arch 24, 1891, presents the
same questions, and the decree in that case also will be affirmed.
The CHIEF JUsTIcE did not participate in the consideration and
decision of this case.

fftr John J. Herricc for appellant.
31'r George A. Sanders and Mr Thomas S. lfcClelland for
appellee.

