MANNING v. AMY.
Opinion of the Court.

XANNING v. AMY
ERROR TO TH

SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS,
HOLDEN AT BOSTOIT.

No. 303. Argued April 14,1891. -Decided

May 11, 1891.

The 'defendant in an action in 4 state court after moving to dismiss the
action, and after pleading in abatement answered, December 29, 1884, the
last day of the term at which the writ was returnable, and moved to
remove the case to the Federal court for the district "in case said
motion should not be allowed and in case said plea should not be sustained." No steps being taken on the motion for removal, the case came
on for trial in the state court at January term, 1886. The motion being
then pressed, the court ruled that it was too late, and proceeded to trial,
and gave judg-ment against the defendant. Held,
(1) That the conditional application for removal in December, 1884, wag
not a valid application for removal as contemplated by the statute;
(2) That the application made at the trial term m 1886 was made too

late.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Afr Jerome F 3fanntg in person for plaintiff in error.
._Yr Theodore F H. .Meyer for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action on contract, brought in the Superior
Court of the Commonwealth of M1assachusetts for the county
of Suffolk, by Henry Amy, a citizen of Nvew York, against
Jerome F Manning, a citizen of Massachusetts, principal defendant, and certain other named defendants who were supposed to have property belonging to Manning in their possession,
to recover the amounts of four certain promissory notes, aggregating $23,4175, exclusive of interest.
The action was commenced September 5, 1884, by a writ
returnable on the first Tuesday in October, 1884. It appearing on the return day that the writ had been served on only
a few of the garnishees, and not on the principal defendant,
the court made an order directing that personal service be

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

made upon him at least fourteen days prior to the fourth
Tuesday in October of that year. Personal service was
effected on the defendant October 9, 1884, at Boston, by a
deputy sheriff, and return thereof was made on the following
day On the 14th of that month, Charles Cowley entered his
appearance specially for the defendant M anning, and on the
22d of the same month filed a motion .to dismiss the action.
On the 6th of November, folloving, Wilbur H. Powers
entered a special appearance for Manning, and filed a motion
to dismiss and a plea in abatement, both of which were based
upon the ground that the writ had not been personally served
on him. On the 22d of December, 1884, the aforesaid motion
and plea not having been passed upon, the court ordered the
defendant Manning to file an answer on or before December
26 of that year. This he did.
On the 29th of December, 1884, the last day of the October
term of the court, Manmng filed what purported to be a petition and bond for the removal of the cause to the United
States Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, and he
also, simultaneously and in connection therewith, filed the
following motion
"Defendant's _fotion Touching tke Removal of this Action.
"And now comes the defendant specially and suggests to
the court that he has heretofore filed a motion to dismiss this
action for causes therein set forth and also a plea in abatement
for causes therein set forth, but neither said motion nor said
plea has yet been heard or determined by this court, and the
court is about to adjourn without day
" He also suggests that he has herewith filed a petition for
the removal of this cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, together with a
suitable bond therefor, but that he has filed the same without
prejudice to said motion or said plea.
"Wherefore, in case said motion should not be allowed and
in case said plea should not be sustained, he prays the court
to order the removal of this action, as prayed for in said
petition.

" JEROmE F MANNING,

"By his att'y, WILur H. Powers."

MA-N1ING v. AMY.
Opmion of the Court.

Thereupon the case was continued nzsb to the January term,
1885, "the defendant reserving his right to remove to the
Circuit Court of the United States." At a hearing on the 3d
of March, 1885, the aforesaid motion to dismiss and the plea
in abatement were overruled, and the defendant appealed on
March 10, 1885. What became of this appeal does not appear,
but it does not seem to have been perfected, as no proceedings
on it appear in the record.
Nearly a year afterwards, to wit, on the 2d of February,
1886, the cause being still on the trial docket of the Superior
Court, at its January term, 1886, Wilbur H. Powers withdrew
his appearance as attorney for defendant Manning, and on
the 8th of the same month Charles Cowley appeared generally
for him. When the case was reached for trial at the January
term, 1886, of the court, the defendant's counsel called the
court's attention to the steps taken by hun to secure the
removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United States,
and asked the court to remove the same, at the same time
objecting to a trial in the state court. The court ruled, however, that the request came too late, that the right to remove
was waived, and overruled the objection and ordered the trial
to proceed. The case went to trial on the 11th of February,
before the court and a jury, resulting in a verdict, on the 16th
of the same month, in favor of the plaintiff, for $27,958.38.
On the 19th of February the defendant made a motion for a
new trial, which was heard on the 8th of March following,
and allowed, unless the plaintiff should remit from the amount
of the verdict the sum of $699.24. The plaintiff filed a remittitur of that amount on the 9th of March, whereupon the
motion for a new trial was overruled.
The case then went to the Supreme Judicial Court for the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, on exceptions taken by the
defendant. Those exceptions were overruled by that court,
(144 Mass. 153,) the rescript being received by the Superior
Court at its January term, 1887.
A motion for a new trial, on the ground of newly discovered evidence, was overruled by the Superior Court on the
14th of May, 1887, and on the 23d of that month that court

OCTOBER TERiM, 1890.
Opinion of the Court.

entered judgment in favor of the plaintiff, and against the
defendant, for the sum of $29,335.37 damages, and for costs
of suit, taxed at $95.22. Thereupon the present writ of error
was sued out.
The foregoing is a statement of all the facts essential to the
present inquiry From this statement it is readily perceived
that the only Federal question in the case is as to the effect
of the so-called application for the removal of the cause to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
It is familiar law that, in a proper case, the filing of a petition for removal, accompanied by a proper and legal bond,
operates of itself to remove a case from the state court
to the United States Court. It is sought to bring this case
within that rule, and it is, therefore, insisted that the proceedings in the Superior Court on the 29th of December,
1884, operated, in law, to oust that court of jurisdiction and
to remove the cause to the Federal court. We think, however, that such was not the effect of those proceedings.
No question is made as to the diverse citizenship of the parties, nor can it admit of a doubt that the application for removal, if it can be properly called such, was, when first filed,
made at the proper time. If, therefore, the petition and bond
had been in due form, and had been unaccompanied by the
motion filed simultaneously with them, and as a part of them,
it is equally clear that the removal to the Federal court would
have been properly effected.
Counsel for defendant in error insist that both the petition
and the bond are defective in form and effect, in that the petition asks for the removal of the case to the "1Circuit Court of
the United States for the First District of Massachusetts,"
(whereas no such district existed as the first district of Massachusetts,) and that the bond was not justified nor the sureties
approved when the case was reached for trial. It should be
observed that no objection was made to the removal in the
state court on either of these grounds. We do not deem it
necessary to pass upon these defects of the petition and the
bond, for it is clear to our minds that, with the accompanying

MANNIKG v. AMY.
Opinion of the Court.

motion, they do not constitute a valid application for removal,
as contemplated by the statute. Indeed, the proceeding was
not even in intent an application for removal to take effect
on the date of its filing. The petition, read and construed, as
it must be, with the accompanying motion, asks not for a-removal, but for the judgment of the court on a motion and a
plea in abatement which, if rendered as asked for, would have
made a removal unnecessary and impossible. In any view, it
was a mere conditional application for removal in case the
court, after consideration of the motion to dismiss and the plea
in abatement, should overrule both.
The record recites that after the motion touching the removal of the case was filed with the petition and bond for
removal, "thence the same was continued nts? to the January
term, 1885, the defendant r.eserving his igRt to remove to the
Circuit Court of the United States as aforesaid," the continuance being manifestly ordered for the purpose of an opportunity to hear and determine the said motion and plea. The
avowed purpose of the defendant in the proceedings was to
have the state court retain jurisdiction for the purpose of
getting a judgment in his favor, and not to have the case removed unless the judgment went against him. It is clear that
Congress did not, by the-act of March 3, 1875, intend to allow
the defendant "to experiment on his case in the state court,
and, if he met with unexpected difficulties, stop the proceedings, and take his suit to another tribunal." Removal Cases,
100 U. S. 457, 473. Such a proceeding was not authorized by
that act. We hold, therefore, that the proceedings m the
state court on the 29th of December, 1884, did not have the
effect to remove the cause to the Federal court.
Did the subsequent action of the defendant's attorney in
calling the attention of the court to those proceedings when
the case was called at a subsequent term of the court, m February, 1886, have that effect 9 We think not. An inspection
of the record shows that, as stated above, the answer of the
defendant was filed on the 26th of December, 1884, at the
October term of the court, and that on the same day he claimed
a trial by jurv The case was then ready for trial, so far as

OCTOBER TERM, 1890.
Syllabus.

the issues in it were concerned, and could have been tried at
that term of the court. That term closed on the 29th day of
that month, and on the 3d day of Aarch, 1885, which was the
next term, said motion and plea m abatement were overruled,
and the defendant excepted. The case was then put on the
trial list for that term and the subsequent terms, up to the
time it was reached in its order at the January sitting, 1886,
and the defendant took no further action for the removal until
it was reached for trial, when he called attention to the steps
he had taken for removal, and objected to the trial of the
action in the State court. It was then too late, under the
statute of March 3, 1875, to make an application for removal
to the Federal court. Babbitt v Clark, 103 U S. 606, 612,
Pullman Palace Car Co. v 8peck, 113 U. S. 84, 87, Gregory
v Hartley, 113 U. S. 742, 746.
This disposes of the only Federal question in the case, and
the judgment of the court below is
Affirmned.
MR. JUSTICE BRA LEY was not present at the argument, and
took no part m the decision of this case.

UNITED STATES v. EWING.
AP1PEAL

FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 111.

Argued March 12,13,1891.-Decided May 11, 1891.

There being a dispute between the appellee, a commissioner of a Circuit
Court of the United States, and the appellant, respecting the official fees
of the former for services in criminal cases. Held,
(1) That the law of the State in which the services are rendered must be
looked at in order to determine what are necessary(2) That in Tennessee a temporary mittimus may become necessary, and
a charge for it should be allowed unless there has. been an abuse
of discretion in regard to it;
(3) That only one fee can be charged for taking the acknowledgment

