66

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Syllabus

399 U. S.

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF NEW YORK

No. 188.

Argued December 9, 1969-Decided June 22, 1970

Appellant was charged with a misdemeanor in the New York City
Criminal Court. Under § 40 of the New York City Criminal
Court Act all trials in that court are without a jury. Appellant's
motion for a jury trial was denied, he was convicted, and given
the maximum sentence of a year's imprisonment. The highest
state court affirmed, rejecting appellant's contention that § 40
was unconstitutional. Held: The judgment is reversed. Pp. 6776.
24 N. Y. 2d 207, 247 N. E. 2d 260, reversed.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, joined by MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN and
MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL, concluded that defendants accused of
serious crimes must, under the Sixth Amendment, as made
applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment, be afforded
the right to trial by jury, Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145,
and though "petty crimes" may be tried without a jury, no
offense can be deemed "petty" for purposes of the right to trial
by jury where imprisonment for more than six months is authorized. Pp. 68-74.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, joined by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, concluded that the constitutional guarantee of the right to trial by
jury applies to "all crimes" and not just to those crimes deemed
to be "serious." Pp. 74-76.

William E. Hellerstein argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief were Leon B. Polsky and Alice
Daniel.
Michael R. Juviler argued the cause for appellee.
With him on the brief were Frank S. Hogan, Lewis R.
Friedman, and David Otis Fuller, Jr.
Louis J. Lefkowitz, Attorney General, pro se, Samuel

A. Hirshowitz, First Assistant Attorney General, and
Maria L. Marcus, Assistant Attorney General, filed a
brief for the Attorney General of New York as amicus
curiae urging affirmance.

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

Opinion of

WHITE, J.

MR. JUSTICE WHITE announced the judgment of the
Court and delivered an opinion in which MR. JUSTICE
BRENNAN and MR. JUSTICE MARSHALL join.

Appellant was arrested and charged with "jostling"a Class A misdemeanor in New York, punishable by a
maximum term of imprisonment of one year.'

He was

brought to trial in the New York City Criminal Court.
Section 40 of the New York City Criminal Court Act
declares that all trials in that court shall be without a
jury.' Appellant's pretrial motion for jury trial was accordingly denied. He was convicted and sentenced to
imprisonment for the maximum term. The New York
'"Jostling" is one of the ways in which legislatures have attempted
to deal with pickpocketing. See Denzer & McQuillan, Practice
Commentary, N. Y. Penal Law, following § 165.25; Note, Pickpocketing: A Survey of the Crime and Its Control, 104 U. Pa.
L. Rev. 408, 419 (1955). The New York law provides:
"A person is guilty of jostling when, in a public place, he intentionally and unnecessarily:
"1. Places his hand in the proximity of a person's pocket or
handbag; or
"2. Jostles or crowds another person at a time when a third
person's hand is in the proximity of such person's pocket or handbag." N. Y. Penal Law § 165.25.
Appellant was convicted on the testimony of the arresting officer.
The officer stated that he had observed appellant, working in
concert with another man, remove a loose package from an unidentified woman's pocketbook after the other man had made a "body
contact" with her on a crowded escalator. He arrested both men,
searched appellant, and found a single $10 bill. No other testimony or evidence was introduced on either side. The trial judge
thought the police officer "a very forthright and credible witness"
and found appellant guilty. He was subsequently sentenced to one
year in the penitentiary. See App. 1-17, 21.
2 "All trials in the court shall be without a jury. All trials in
the court shall be held before a single judge; provided, however,
that where the defendant has been charged with a misdemeanor . ..
[he] shall be advised that he has the right to a trial in a part of
the court held by a panel of three of the judges thereof . .. .
N. Y. C. Crim. Ct. Act § 40 (Supp. 1969).

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

399 U. S.

Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction, rejecting appellant's argument that § 40 was unconstitutional insofar as
it denied him an opportunity for jury trial.' We noted
probable jurisdiction.' We reverse.
In Duncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145 (1968),. we
held that the Sixth Amendment, as applied to the States
through the Fourteenth, requires that defendants accused
of serious crimes be afforded the right to trial by jury.
We also reaffirmed the long-established view that socalled "petty offenses" may be tried without a jury.'
Thus the task before us in this case is the essential
if not wholly satisfactory one, see Duncan, at 161, of
determining the line between "petty" and "serious" for
purposes of the Sixth Amendment right to jury trial.
Prior cases in this Court narrow our inquiry and
furnish us with the standard to be used in resolving this
issue. In deciding whether an offense is "petty," we
have sought objective criteria reflecting the seriousness
with which society regards the offense, District of Columbia v. Clawans, 300 U. S. 617, 628 (1937), and we have
found the most relevant such criteria in the severity
of the maximum authorized penalty. Frank v. United
States, 395 U. S. 147, 148 (1969); Duncan v. Louisiana,
supra, at 159-161; District of Columbia v. Clawans,
supra, at 628. Applying these guidelines, we have held
3 24 N. Y. 2d 207, 247 N. E. 2d 260 (1969).

4395 U. S. 932 (1969).
rDuncan v. Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 159 (1968); see Cheff v.
Schnackenberg, 384 U. S. 373 (1966); District of Columbia v.
Clawans, 300 U. S. 617 (1937); District of Columbia v. Colts, 282
U. S. 63 (1930); Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65 (1904);
Natal v. Louisiana, 139 U. S. 621 (1891); Callan v. Wilson, 127
U. S. 540 (1888); Frankfurter & Corcoran, Petty Federal Offenses
and the Constitutional Guaranty of Trial by Jury, 39 Harv. L. Rev.
917 (1926). But see Kaye, Petty Offenders Have No Peers!, 26
U. Chi. L. Rev. 245 (1959).

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

Opinion

69

of WHITE, J.

that a possible six-month penalty is short enough to
permit classification of the offense as "petty," Dyke v.
Taylor Implement Co., 391 U. S. 216, 220 (1968); Cheff

v. Schnackenberg, 384 U. S. 373 (1966), but that a twoyea maximum is sufficiently "serious" to require an
opportunity for jury trial, Duncan, v. Louisiana, supra.
The question in this case is whether the possibility of
a one-year sentence is enough in itself to require the

opportunity for a jury trial. We hold that it is. More
specifically, we have concluded that no offense can be
deemed "petty" for purposes of the right to trial by
jury where imprisonment for more than six months is
authorized.'
New York has urged us to draw the line between
"petty" and "serious" to coincide with the line between
misdemeanor and felony. As in most States, the maximum sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor in
New York is one year, for a felony considerably longer.7
It is also true that the collateral consequences attaching
to a felony conviction are more severe than those attaching to a conviction for a misdemeanor.s
And, like other
Decisions of this Court have looked to both the nature of the
offense itself, District of Columbia v. Colts, 282 U. S. 63 (1930), as
well as the maximum potential sentence, Duncan v. Louisiana, 391
U. S. 145 (1968), in determining whether a particular offense was so
serious as to require a jury trial. In this case, we decide only that a
potential sentence in excess of six months' imprisonment is sufficiently
severe by itself to take the offense out of the category of "petty."
None of our decisions involving this issue have ever held such an
offense "petty." See cases cited n. 5, supra.
7 N. Y. Penal Law, §§ 10.00, 70.15 (1967).
8 Both the convicted felon and the convicted misdemeanant may
be prevented under New York law from engaging in a wide variety
of occupations. In addition, the convicted felon is deprived of
certain civil rights, including the right to vote and to hold public
office. The relevant statutes are set out in Brief for Appellant C-1
to C-6; Brief for Appellee A8-A12.
6

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

399 U. S.

States, New York distinguishes between misdemeanors
and felonies in determining such things as whether confinement shall be in county or regional jails, rather
than state prison,' and whether prosecution may proceed
by information or complaint, rather than by grand jury
indictment."
But while these considerations reflect
what may readily be admitted-that a felony conviction is more serious than a misdemeanor convictionthey in no way detract from appellant's contention that
some misdemeanors are also "serious" offenses. Indeed
we long ago declared that the Sixth Amendment right
to jury trial "is not to be construed as relating only
to felonies, or offences punishable by confinement in the
penitentiary. It embraces as well some classes of misdemeanors, the punishment of which involves or may
involve the deprivation of the liberty of the citizen."
Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540, 549 (1888). 11
A better guide "[i]n determining whether the length
of the authorized prison term or the seriousness of other
punishment is enough in itself to require a jury trial"
is disclosed by "the existing laws and practices in the
Nation." Duncan v. Louisiana, supra, at 161. In the
federal system, as we noted in Duncan, petty offenses
9 See statutes cited n. 7, supra; N. Y. Penal Law § 70.20 (1967).
10 N. Y. Const., Art. I, § 6; N. Y. Code Crim. Proc. §§ 22, 222
(1958); N. Y. C. Crim. Ct. Act §§ 31, 41 (1963); see, e. g., People
v. Bellinger, 269 N. Y. 265, 199 N. E. 213 (1935); People v. Van
Dusen, 56 Misc. 2d 107, 287 N. Y. S. 2d 741 (1967).
11Even New York distinguishes among misdemeanors in terms
of the seriousness of the offense. Following a recent revision of
the penal law, Class A misdemeanors were made punishable by up
to one year's imprisonment, Class B misdemeanors up to three
months' imprisonment, and "violations" up to 15 days. As Judge
Burke noted in his dissenting opinion below, "an argument can be
made with some force that the Legislature has identified petty
offenses as those included in the 'violations' category and in the
category of class B misdemeanors." 24 N. Y. 2d 207, 225, 247
N. E. 2d 260, 270 (1969).

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

have been defined as those punishable by no more than
six months in prison and a $500 fine.12 And, with a few
exceptions, crimes triable without a jury in the American
States since the late 18th century were also generally
punishable by no more than a six-month prison term."
Indeed, when Duncan was decided two Terms ago, we
could discover only three instances in which a State
denied jury trial for a crime punishable by imprisonment
for longer than six months: the Louisiana scheme at
issue in Duncan, a New Jersey statute punishing disorderly conduct, and the New York City stattlite at issue
in this case. 4 These three instances have since been
reduced to one. In response to the decision in Duncan,
Louisiana has lowered the penalty for certain misdemeanors to six months, and has provided for a jury
trial where the penalty still exceeds six months. 1
New Jersey has amended its disorderly persons statute
by reducing the maximum penalty to six months' imprisonment and a $500 fine."

Even New York State would

have provided appellant with a six-man-jury trial for
this offense if he had been tried outside the City of New
York.'
In the entire Nation, New York City alone
12 18 U.S.C.§ 1.

13 Frankfurter & Corcoran, n. 5, supra.
14Duncan v.

Louisiana, 391 U. S. 145, 161 n. 33 (1968).
15 La. Crim. Proc. Code Ann., Art. 779 (Supp. 1969); see Comment, Jury Trial in Louisiana-Implications of Duncan, 29 La. L.
Rev. 118, 127 (1968).
16
17

N. J. Rev. Stat. § 2A:169-4 (Supp. 1969).
Compare N. Y. C. Crim. Ct. Act § 40 (Supp. 1969), with N. Y.

Uniform Dist. Ct. Act § 2011 (1963); N. Y. Uniform City Ct. Act

§ 2011 (Supp. 1969). Because of our disposition of this case on
appellant's jury-trial claim, we find it unnecessary to consider his
argument that New York has violated the Equal Protection Clause
by denying him a jury trial, while granting a six-man-jury trial to
defendants charged with the identical offense elsewhere in the State.
See Salsburg v. Maryland, 346 U. 5. 545 (1954); Missouri v. Lewis,
101 U. S. 22 (1880). See generally Horowitz & Neitring, Equal

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
Opinion

of

WHITE,

J.

399 U. S.

denies an accused the right to interpose between himself
and a possible prison term of over six months, the commonsense judgment of a jury of his peers. 8
It is true that in a number of these States the jury
provided consists of less than the 12-man, unanimousverdict jury available in federal cases.'" But the primary
purpose of the jury is to prevent the possibility of oppression by the Government; the jury interposes between
the accused and his accuser the judgment of laymen
who are less tutored perhaps than a judge or panel of
judges, but who at the same time are less likely to function or appear as but another arm of the Government
that has proceeded against him. "° Except for the
criminal courts of New York City, every other court in
the Nation proceeds under jury trial provisions that
reflect this "fundamental decision about the exercise of
official power," Duncan v. Louisiana,supra, at 156, when
what is at stake is the deprivation of individual liberty
for a period exceeding six months. This near-uniform
judgment of the Nation furnishes us with the only objective criterion by which a line could ever be drawnon the basis of the possible penalty alone-between
Protection Aspects of Inequalities in Public Education and Public
Assistance Programs From Place to Place Within a State, 15
U. C. L. A. L. Rev. 787-804 (1968).
18 The various state statutory provisions are set out in the briefs
filed in this case. A survey is also included in American Bar Assn.
Project on Standards for Criminal Justice, Advisory Committee on
the Criminal Trial, Trial by Jury 20-23 (Approved Draft 1968)
(recommending that the possibility of six months' imprisonment and
a fine of $500, "should be the upper limit upon the definition of
'petty offenses' ").
"9In a related decision of this date we hold that trial by a sixman jury satisfies the Sixth Amendment requirement of jury trial.
Williams v. Florida,post, p. 78.
20 Thus a trial before a panel of three judges, which appellant
might have requested in lieu of trial before a single judge, see n. 2,
supra, can hardly serve as a substitute for a jury trial.

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

Opinion of

WHITE,

J.

offenses that are and that are not regarded as "serious"

for purposes of trial by jury.21
Of necessity, the task of drawing a line "requires attaching different consequences to events which, when
they lie near the line, actually differ very little." Duncan
v. Louisiana, supra, at 161. One who is threatened with
the possibility of imprisonment for six months may find
little difference between the potential consequences that
face him, and the consequences that faced appellant
here. Indeed, the prospect of imprisonment for however short a time will seldom be viewed by the accused
as a trivial or "petty" matter and may well result in
quite serious repercussions affecting his career and his
reputation. Where the accused cannot possibly face
more than six months' imprisonment, we have held that
these disadvantages, onerous though they may be, may
be outweighed by the benefits that result from speedy
and inexpensive nonjury adjudications. We cannot,
however, conclude that these administrative conveniences,
in light of the practices that now exist in every one
of the 50 States as well as in the federal courts, can sim21 We find little relevance in the. fact that Congress has defined
misdemeanors punishable by imprisonment up to one year as "minor
offenses" for purposes of vesting trial jurisdiction in the United
States magistrates rather than commissioners, 18 U. S. C. § 3401 (f)
(1964 ed., Supp. IV), or for purposes of authorizing eavesdropping
under state court orders, 18 U. S. C. § 2516 (2) (1964 ed., Supp.
IV), or for purposes of determining the eligibility for jury service
of formerly convicted persons, 28 U. S. C. § 1865 (b) (5) (1964 ed.,
Supp. IV). Such statutes involve entirely different considerations
from those involved in deciding when the important right to jury
trial shall attach to a criminal proceeding. Nothing in any of
the above Acts suggests that Congress meant to alter its longstanding judgment that "[n]otwithstanding any Act of Congress

to the contrary . . . [a]ny misdemeanor, the penalty for which

does not exceed imprisonment for a period of six months or a fine
of not more than $500, or both, is a petty offense." 18 U. S. C. § 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
BLACK,

J., concurring in judgment

399 U. S.

ilarly justify denying an accused the important right to
trial by jury where the possible penalty exceeds six
months' imprisonment.22 The conviction is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BLACKMUN

took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.
[For dissenting opinion of MR.JUSTICE HARLAN, see
post, p. 117.]
[For dissenting opinion of MR.JUSTICE
post, p. 143.]

STEWART,

see

MR.JUSTICE BLACK, with whom MR.JUSTICE DOUGLAS
joins, concurring in the judgment.
I agree that the appellant here was entitled to a trial
by jury in a New York City court for an offense punishable by one year's imprisonment. I also agree that his
right to a trial by jury was governed by the Sixth
Amendment to the United States Constitution made
applicable to the States by the Fourteenth Amendment.
I disagree, however, with the view that a defendant's
right to a jury trial under the Sixth Amendment is determined by whether the offense charged is a "petty" or
"serious" one. The Constitution guarantees a right of
trial by jury in two separate places but in neither does
it hint of any difference between "petty" offenses and
"serious" offenses. Article III, § 2, cl. 3, provides that
"[t]he Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury," and Amendment VI provides
that "[i]n all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
22

Experience in other States, notably California where jury

trials are available for all criminal offenses including traffic violations, Cal. Pen. Code § 689 (1956), suggests that the administrative
burden is likely to be slight, with a very high waiver rate of jury
trials. See H. Kalven & H. Zeisel, The American Jury 18-19 and
n. 12 (1966).

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

BLACK,

J., concurring in judgment

enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime
shall have been committed ...."

Thus the Constitution

itself guarantees a jury trial "[i]n all criminal prosecutions" and for "all crimes." Many years ago this Court,
without the necessity of an amendment pursuant to Article V, decided that "all crimes" did not mean "all crimes,"
but meant only "all serious crimes."' Today three members of the Court would judicially amend that judicial
amendment and substitute the phrase "all crimes in which
punishment for more than six months is authorized."
This definition of "serious" would be enacted even though
those members themselves recognize that imprisonment for less than six months may still have serious
consequences. This decision is reached by weighing
the advantages to the defendant against the administrative inconvenience to the State inherent in a jury
trial and magically concluding that the scale tips at
six months' imprisonment. Such constitutional adjudication, whether framed in terms of "fundamental
fairness," "balancing," or "shocking the conscience,"
amounts in every case to little more than judicial mutilation of our written Constitution. Those who wrote and
adopted our Constitution and Bill of Rights engaged in
all the balancing necessary. They decided that the
value of a jury trial far outweighed its costs for "all
crimes" and "[i]n all criminal prosecutions." Until that
language is changed by the constitutionally prescribed
method of amendment, I cannot agree that this Court
can reassess the balance and substitute its own judgment for that embodied in the Constitution. Since there
can be no doubt in this case that Baldwin was charged
with and convicted of a "crime" in any relevant sense
1See Callan v. Wilson, 127 U. S. 540 (1888); District of Columbia
v. Colts, 282 U. S. 63 (1930); District of Columbia v. Clawans, 300
U. S. 617 (1937); cf. Schick v. United States, 195 U. S. 65 (1904).

OCTOBER TERM, 1969
BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

399 U. S.

of that word-I agree that his conviction must be reversed because he was convicted without the benefit of
a jury trial.2
dissenting.
I dissent from today's holding that something in the
Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments commands New York
City to provide trial by jury for an offense punishable
by a confinement of more than six months but less than
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER,

one year.

MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

has noted correctly that

the Constitution guarantees a jury trial "[i] n all criminal
prosecutions" (Amendment VI) and for "all Crimes"
(Art., III, § 2, cl. 3), but these provisions were not written as a command to the States; they were written at a
time when the Federal Government exercised only a
limited authority to provide for federal offenses "very
grave and few in number." 1 The limited number of
serious acts that were made criminal offenses were
against federal authority, and were proscribed in a period
when administration of the criminal law was regarded
as largely the province of the States. The Founding
2 My view does not require a conclusion that every act which
may lead to "minuscule" sanctions by the Government is a "crime"

which can only be punished after a jury trial. See Frank v. United
States, 395 U. S. 147, 159-160 (1969)

(dissenting opinion).

There

may be instances in which certain conduct is punished by fines or
other sanctions in circumstances that would not make that conduct
criminal. Not all official sanctions are imposed in criminal proceedings, but when, as in this case, the sanction bears all the indicia of a
criminal punishment, a jury trial cannot be denied by labeling the
punishment "petty."
1 See Frankfurter & Corcoran, Petty Federal Offenses and the
Constitutional Guaranty of Trial by Jury, 39 Harv. L. Rev. 917,
975-976 (1926), where the authors observe: "Until very recently
the occasion for considering the dispensability of trial by jury in
the enforcement of the criminal law has hardly presented itself to
Congress, except as to the Territories and the District of Columbia,
because, on the whole, federal offenses were at once very grave and
few in number." (Footnote omitted.)

BALDWIN v. NEW YORK
66

BURGER,

C. J., dissenting

Fathers therefore cast the constitutional provisions we
deal with here as limitations on federal power, not the
power of States. State administration of criminal justice
included a wide range of petty offenses, and as to many
of the minor cases, the States often did not require trial
by jury.2 This state of affairs had not changed appreciably when the Fourteenth Amendment was approved by
Congress in 1866 and was ratified by the States in 1868.
In these circumstances, the jury trial guarantees of the
Constitution properly have been read as extending only
to "serious" crimes. I find, however, nothing in the "serious" crime coverage of the Sixth or Fourteenth Amendment that would require this Court to invalidate the
particular New York City trial scheme at issue here.
I find it somewhat disconcerting that with the constant
urging to adjust ourselves to being a "pluralistic society"-and I accept this in its broad sense-we find constant pressure to conform to some uniform pattern on
the theory that the Constitution commands it. I see
no reason why an infinitely complex entity such as New
York City should be barred from deciding that misdemeanants can be punished with up to 365 days' confinement without a jury trial while in less urban areas
another body politic would fix a six-month maximum
for offenses tried without a jury. That the "near-uniform
judgment of the Nation" is otherwise than the judgment in some of its parts affords no basis for me to read
into the Constitution something not found there. What
may be a serious offense in one setting-e. g., stealing a
horse in Cody, Wyoming, where a horse may be an indispensable part of living-may be considered less serious
in another area, and the procedures for finding guilt and
fixing punishment in the two locales may rationally differ
from each other.
2

See id., at 934-965; District of Columbia v. Clawans, 300 U. S.

617, 626 (1937).

