FERGUSON v. M CLAUGHLIN.

[Sup. CL

subject-matter of a contract, and the sense in which the parties
may have used particular terms, but not to alter or modify
the plain language which they have used.
Judgment affirmed.

FERGUSON v. McLAUGHLIN.
Under sect. 6 of the act of March 3, 1853 (10 Stat. 244), a settler upon unsurveyed public lands in California has no valid claim to pre-etapt a quartersection, or any part thereof included in his settlement, unless it appears by
the government surveys, when the same are made and filed in the local landoffice, that his dwelling-house was on that quarter-section.

ERROR

to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

iAr. J. A. loultrie for the defendant in error.
There was no opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE MiLLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The case before us was originally an action to recover possession of land, brought in the proper court of the State of
California.
The plaintiff proved a patent from the United States to the
Western Pacific Railroad Company, and a conveyance by said
company to him of the land in dispute. In conformity to the
practice in the courts of California, the defendant, Ferguson,
filed an answer in the nature of a cross-bill in equity, which
alleged that while plaintiff had the apparent legal title, he
held it, or should be decreed to hold it, for the benefit of the
defendant. The ground of this equitable right, briefly stated,
is, that the defendant had made a valid claim to the land
under the pre-emption laws before the inception of plaintiff's
title, and that although this matter had been contested before
the officers of the Land Department, and they had decided in
favor of the Western Pacific Railroad Company, yet that decision was erroneous in law and in fact; and he prayed the court
to decree him that relief which he was in equity entitled to.
The case was submitted to the court, whose findings of fact
are in the record, and whose judgment in favor of the plaintiff

Oct. 1877.]

FERGUSON v. McLAUGHLIN.

in the court below was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State.
This writ of error brings before us the question whether, on
the facts so found, the defendant below, the plaintiff here, is
entitled to be declared the equitable owner of the land for
which the other party recovered judgment.
There is not the slightest evidence of fraud or of any mistake
of fact in the proceedings before the Land Department. There
is very little evidence of what did take place there, and especially of what was proved there.
But there is in the findings of the court a statement that his
claim was rejected by the land-office on two grounds; namely,
1, That his residence was not on any part of the congressional
subdivision to which this land belonged; and, 2, that he had
sold part of the land for which he had filed his original preemption claim.
The act of Congress of 1853, providing for the survey, preemption, and sale of the public lands in California, which was
before this court in Sherman v. Buick (93 U. S. 209), declares
that all those lands, with certain exceptions not pertinent to
this case, shall, whether surveyed or unsurveyed, be subject to
the pre-emption law of the 4th of September, 1841, with all
the exceptions, conditions, and limitations therein contained.
One of those limitations is, that the person claiming the right
of pre-emption to any part of the public land must have erected
a dwelling-house and made an improvement thereon, and that
the congressional subdivision for which claim is made must
include the claimant's residence. It is true that under that
law no valid settlement could be made until after the land had
been surveyed, and the party could know just where he was
making his residence, with reference to the congressional subdivision which he proposed to claim; while under the act of
1853 he could settle before the surveys, and make his claim
after they had been made and filed in the local office. The
officers of the Land Department have, however, held that,
when he comes before them finally to assert his claim, be
could not establish a valid claim for any quarter-section, or
any rart of a quarter-section, unless his dwelling-house, his
actual residence, was on some part of that quarter-section. In

WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

this construction of the act of 1853 we concur, and it is fatal
to the case of plaintiff in error. And this question of law is
the only one of which this court can have jurisdiction in the
present case.
It appears very clearly by the facts found that Ferguson's
original claim or settlement of about one hundred and fifty
acres is subdivided by the township line which runs between
townships six and seven south, of range one west, of the Mount
Diablo meridian, and that about thirty acres, including his
residence, fell within the latter. He afterwards secured a title
to this as a settler on land granted to the town of Santa Clara
by act of Congress, which act provided that the grant should
inure to the benefit of those who were actual settlers on any
part of it.
As we have already said, the land-office held that this fact
was fatal to his right of pre-emption in any portion of township
6, though it adjoined his land in the other township, and was
part of his improvement.
We see no error in that construction of the law, and none in
the judgment of the Supreme Court of California.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

1. The Confederate States was an illegal organization, within the provision of
the Constitution of the United States prohibiting any treaty, alliance, or
confederation of one State with another; whatever efficacy, therefore, its
enactments possessed in any State entering into that organization must be
attributed to the sanction given to them by that State.
2. Any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives the
force of law, is a statute of the State, within the meaning of the act regulating the appellate jurisdiction of tfis court over the judgments and decrees
of the State courts.
8. An enactment of the Confederate States, enforced as a law of one of the States
composing that confederation, sequestrating a debt owing by one of its citizens to a citizen of a loyal State as an alien enemy, is void, because it impairs the obligation of the contract, and discriminates against citizens of
another State. The constitutional provision prohibiting a State from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts equally prohibits a State
from enforcing as a law an enactment of that character, from whatever
source originating.

