Oct. 1877.]

MCALLISTER v.

KUHN.

McAL sTER v. KUHN.
1. Upon a writ of error to reverse a judgment by default, such defects in the
declaration or complaint as could have been taken advantage of before
judgment by general demurrer may be brought under review.
2. If the judgment would have been arrested on motion, because the declaration
did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, it may, for the
same reason, be reversed upon error.
3. A declaration in an action for the wrongful conversion of the shares of the
capital stock of a corporation is sufficient for the purposes of pleading, if
it states the ultimate fact to be proven. The circumstances which tend to
prove that fact can be used for the purposes of evidence; but they have no
place in the pleadings.
4. By the Code of Practice of Utah, the failure of a defendant to appear at the
time of the assessment of damages against him by the court is a waiver by
him of an assessment by a jury.
5. This court has no power to re-examine the action of a territorial court in refusing to set aside a judgment by default.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
This action was brought, Sept. 9, 1873, in the District Court
of the third judicial district of the Territory of Utah, by Bertrand Kuhn, against John D. T. McAllister, for the wrongful
2onversion of certain shares of stock.
Kuhn alleged in his complaint that, on the first day of September, 1873, he was the owner of two hundred and fifty shares,
unassessable, of the paid-up capital stock of the North Star
Silver Mining Company, a corporation existing under the
laws of the Dominion of Canada, which were represented by
five certificates, for fifty shares, each signed by the secretary,
treasurer, and president of said company, and that said shares
were then of the value of $12,000.
That on or about that day, while he was such owner and
lawfully entitled to their possession, the defendant, at Salt
Lake City, -ithout his consent and wrongfully, took said
shares, and converted them unlawfully and wrongfully to his
own use.
That before the commencement of this action he demanded
of the defendant possession of the said stock, but that the
defendant refused to return the same, and still retains possession thereof.

88

MCALLISTER v. KUHN.

[Sup. Ot.

Summons was served upon the defendant in person Sept. 10,
1873, and on the 18th he appeared and filed a demurrer.
April 15, 1874, the application of the defendant for leave
to withdraw his demurrer and for ten days within which to
answer was granted; but, on the 28th, no answer having been
filed, his default was entered.
Oct. 13, the plaintiff having introduced his proofs, the court
assessed his damages, and entered judgment in his favor for
$3,300, with interest and costs.
The defendant having moved to vacate the judgment, the
court orerruled the motion; whereupon he appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, where, June 30, 1875, the judgment below was affirmed.
McAllister then sued out this writ, and here assigns for
error: -

1. Shares of stock being intangible, and only representing
the right of the owner to receive dividends of profit, and, at the
dissolution of the company, portions of the surplus, if any there
be, cannot, against the will of the owner, be wrongfully taken
and converted to the use of another. Therefore, the averment
that McAllister wrongfully took and converted the shares of
the plaintiff to his use, is an averment of an impossibility, and
tenders no issuable fact.
2. The averment that said shares were contained in and
represented by five certificates signed as alleged, is only a
conclusion of law.
3. The corporation is governed by the laws of the Dominion
of Canada; and there is no averment showing in what manner
its shares could be transferred to McAllister, or he could obtain
a right to them against the consent of Kuhn.
4. The court erred in assessing the damage without submitting
that question to a jury.
5. The court erred in refusing, on McAllister's motion, to
open the judgment, set aside the default, and grant him leave
to defend the action.
6. The Supreme Court of the Territory erred ia affirming
the judgment of the District Court.
Mr. Z. Snow for the plaintiff in error
Mr. James I. Mandeville, contra.

oct. 1877.]

c8CALLISTER V. KUHN.

BR.
CHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon a writ of error to reverse a judgment by default, such
defects in the declaration or complaint as could have been taken
advantage of before judgment by general demurrer may be
brought under review. If the judgment would have been
arrested on motion, if made, because the declaration did not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, it may be
reversed for the same reason upon error.
In this case, the complainant alleges a wrongful conversion
by McAllister to his own use of certain shares of the capital
stock of a foreign corporation owned by Kuhn, which were represented by certificates of stock that had come into the possession
of McAllister. There can be no doubt that shares of stock in
a corporation may be transferred by means of an assignment
and delivery of certificates. It is true that a certificate of stock
is not the stock itself; but it is documentary evidence of title to
stock, and may be used for the purposes of symbolical delivery,
as the stock itself is incapable of actual delivery. A blank
indorsement of a certificate may be filled up by writing an
assignment and power of attorney over the signature indorsed,
and in this way an actual transfer of the stock on the books of
the corporation may be perfected. A wrongful use of such an
indorsed certificate for such a purpose may operate as a conversion of the stock.
If the statements contained in the petition are true, and
McAllister had actually converted the stock to his own use,
Kuhn was entitled to his damages. By his default, whatever had been properly pleaded was confessed. Had issue
been joined upon the averment of conversion, it would have
been necessary to show the existence of facts which in law
constituted a conversion; but, for the purposes of pleading, the
ultimate fact to be proven need only be stated. The circumstances which tend to prove the ultimate fact can be used for the
purposes of evidence, but they have no place in the pleadings.
We think the complaint does state all the facts necessary to
constitute a cause of action.
By the Code of Practice in Utah, the failure of McAllister to
appear at the time of the assessment of damages was a waiver
by him of an assessment by a jury.

KING V. PARDEE.

[Sup. (t

This court has no power to re-examine the action of the
territorial courts in refusing to set aside the judgment by
default.
We find no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

KING v. PARDM.
1. In Pennsylvania, a resulting trust in land, if not sought to be enforced for
a period of twenty-one years, and not reaffirmed and continued, will, under
ordinary circumstances, be extinguished.
2. That rule is especially applicable where the party having the legal title has,
during the required period of twenty-one years, been in notorious and adverse possession, paying the taxes, exercising all the usual rights of ownership, and his title has for the whole period been on record in the proper
office.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
Air. George W. Biddle for the defendant in error.
No counsel appeared for the plaintiffs in error.

MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought in the court below in
oune, 1871, by James Turnbull, Jr., a subject of Mexico, against
Ario Pardee, a citizen of Pennsylvania, to recover one undivided eighth part of a tract of land in Hazel Township, Luzerne
County, Pennsylvania, containing four hundred and thirty-nine
and one-half acres, known as the Mary Kunkle tract. Turnbull
having died pendente lite, King and other heirs-at-law were
substituted in his stead. Edward Roberts and the executors of
Algernon S. Roberts, deceased, were admitted to defend with
Pardee as his landlord of the premises in question. Plea, general issue.
On the trial, evidence was given tending to show that Alexander Turnbull died seised of the premises in question on the
tenth day of July, 1826, leaving a widow and four children his
heirs-at-law; namely, James, Alexander, Jane, and Margaret,
all of full age. The widow died in 1832. Alexander Turnbull,

