WALKER V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ct.

idea of his being an agent and not a contractor. The latter was
his relation to the government. Between himself and the appellee it was simply that of employer and employd.
The mode, manner, and rate of Ordway's compensation was a
matter between him and the United States, and was one with
which the appellee bad nothing to do. Hence, in this case, it
can in nowise affect the rights of the parties. The appellee
stands upon exactly the same ground as the employ6s of any
other contractor with the government. It follows that he can
have no rightful claim against the appellant. This is conclusive
against him. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider the other
points of defence insisted upon by the United States.
Judgment reversed, and the case remanded with directions to
dismiss the petition.

WALKER v. JOHNSON.
1. A parol contract for the delivery of materials is not void under the Statutc
of Frauds, unless it appears affirmatively that it was not to be performed
within a year. If performance by the promisor can be required by the
promisee within a year, the contract is valid.
2. A subsequent verbal agreement varying the manner of delivering them is
binding.
3. The comments of the judge in his charge to the jury, as to the circumstances
under which the defendant might be entitled to damages against the plaintiff,
cannot be a ground of error, when there was no such issue, and when the
defendant could not have been thereby prejudiced.
4. The court is not bound, at the request of counsel, to give as instructiong
philosophical remarks copied from text-books, however wise or true they
may be in the abstract, or however high the reputation of the authors.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
On the twenty-first day of July, 1869, Edwin I. Sherburne,
Edwin Walker, and Charles B. Farwell entered into a written
contract with the canal commissioners of the State of Illinois,
for the construction of a lock and dam in the Illinois River, near
the city of Henry, in which they agreed to commence the wDrk
on or before the first day of August, 1869, and complete it by
the first day of September, 1871.

Oct. 1877.]

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

Sherburne shortly after assigned his interest in this contract
to James K. Lake, and Lake, Farwell, and Walker assigned the
same, with the approval of the commissioners, to Willard Johnson, plaintiff below. But while Farwell, Lake, and Walker
were the contractors, they made an agreement between themselves, in writing, by which, among other things, Walker was
"to furnish all the stone necessary for the construction of the
lock and dam, to be by him delivered on board of canal-boats
at Henry, as the same might be required in the progress of the
work, to be of the description required for said work; " and
the prices that he was to receive for the various kinds of stone
so delivered were settled. It is alleged by Johnson, that, after
the contract with the commissioners had been assigned to him,
Walker agreed with him to furnish the stone for the work in
the same manner and on the same terms as in this contract with
his former partners. And that, by reason of his failure to do
so, he, the plaintiff, was greatly damaged; and for that he
brought this action. A verdict and judgment for $6,500 were
rendered against defendant Walker, to which he prosecutes the
present writ of error.
The errors assigned relate exclusively to exceptions taken to
the charge of the judge, and to his refusal to charge as requested
by the defendant. They are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.
Mr.Melville W. Fuller for the plaintiff in error.
The contract was void under the Statute of Frauds. Browne,
Stat. Frauds, sects. 279, 283; Packet Company v. Sicleles,
5 Wall. 580; Birch v. The -Earlof Liverpool, 9 Barn. & Cress.
392; jobson and Another v. Espie, 2 H. & N. 81; Boydell v.
Drummond, 11 East, 142.
The alleged parol contract to deliver the stone by railroad,
instead of by canal-boats as agreed upon in the original contract, was without consideration, and therefore void. Gross v.
Nugent, 5 Barn. & Adol. 65; Lattimore v. .Hensen, 14 Johns.
(N. Y.) 880; Munroe v. Perkins,9 Pick. (Mass.) 295; Adams v.
Nichols, 19 id. 275; Crowley v. T'itley, 7 Ex. 819; Payne v. New.
S.0. Co., 10 id. 291; Thurston v. Ludwig, 6 Ohio St. 1; ffunt v.
Barfield, 19 Ala. 117; Gerhardv. Bates, 2 El. & BI. 486; Swain
v. Seamans, 9 Wall. 254.

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

LSup. Ut.

It was also void, because entered into after breach in the
original contract.
Xir. FrancisKernan, contra.
If by the terms of a contract, the subject-matter, and the
situation of the parties, it is shown that the contract can, and
reasonably may in its execution, be required to be performed
within a year, it is not within the Statute of Frauds. Browne,
Stat. Frauds, sects. 274, 275, 278 a, 279, 281, 286, and cases
cited; Wite v. Murtland, 71 Ill. 250; Kent v. -Ient,62 N. Y.
564; 31orley v. NYoblett, 42 Ind. 85; Larimer v. Kelly, 10 Kan.
298; Gault v. Brown, 48 N. H. 183; Peters v. Westboro', 19
Pick. (Mass.) 365; Blake v. Cole, 22 id. 99; Somerley v.
Buntin, 118 Mass. 286; Blair v. Walker, 39 Iowa, 410; Greene
v. Harris, 9 R. I. 401; lodges v. Richmond, id. 487; Souch
v. Strawbridge, 2 C. B. 811; Plimpton v. Curtis, 15 Wend.
(N. Y.) 336; Peter v. Compton, 1 Sm. L. C. 432.
There was no error in the instruction of the court below,
that it was competent for the parties to modify the terms of
their original contract by agreeing that the stone should be
delivered by railroad instead of by canal-boats. Their mutual
promises were a sufficient consideration. Law v. -Forbes,18 Ill.
568; Bishop v. Busse, 69 id. 403; Cooke v. Murphy, 70 id. 96;
Carrierv. -Dilworth,59 Pa. St. 406; Hill v. Smith, 34 Vt. 535;
Mflonroe v. Perkins, 9 Pick. (Mass.) 298.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The first error arises upon the proposition of defendant, that
the contract, being one not to be performed within a year from
the time it was made, and resting only in parol, was void, and
could not sustain the action. Evidence was given which tended
to show that the agreement between plaintiff and defendant was
made early in November, 1869, and renewed or modified in April,
1870. As by the terms of the original contract with the canal
commissioners the work was to be completed on or before Sept. 1,
1871, defendant insisted that his contract for delivery of stone
had the same time to run; and his counsel asked the court to
instruct the jury that it was void, if it appeared from the Farwell, Lake, and Walker contract that it was not the intention
and understanding of the parties that the same should be perMR. JUSTICE MILLER

Ot. 1877.]

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

formed within the space of one year from the making of the
verbal agreement between plaintiff and defendant.
The court refused this instruction, and told the jury that if it
appeared from the contract itself that it was not to be performed, or was not intended to be performed, within a year, it
was void; but that if it was a contract which might have been
performed within a year, and which the plaintiff, at his option,
might have required the defendant to perform within a year, it
was not within the statute.
We think the court ruled correctly, both in what it charged
and in what it refused.
1. In order to bring a parol contract within the statute, it
must appear affirmatively that the contract was not to be performed within the year. We have had occasion to examine this
question very recently in the case of McPherson v. Cox (supra,
p. 404). We said, in that case, that the statute "applies only to
contracts which, by their terms, are not to be performcd within
the year, and not to contracts which may not be performed
within that time." The court said, in regard to that case, which
was a contract by a lawyer to conduct a suit in court, that there
was nothing to show that it could not have been fully performed within a year. So, in this case, the lock and dam were
to be completed on or before Sept. 1, 1871. Clearly, the contractor had the right to push his work so as to finish it before
November, 1870, which would have been within a year from the
date of Walker's contract with plaintiff.
If plaintiff had a right to do his work within that time, he
had a right to require of defendant to deliver the stone necessary to enable him to do it. There is no error in the action of
the court on this branch of the subject.
2. It will be observed that, by the agreement of Walker with
his partners, he was to deliver at Henry in canal-boats. Evidence was given tending to show that, in the spring of 1870,
it was agreed between him and plaintiff that he should deliver
by railroad; and the court charged the jury that it was competent for the parties to change the contract in that regard, if
they chose; and that if the jury found that defendant did so
agree, he was bound by such agreement as he made, if any.
The original contract between Johnson and Walker was in

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

[Sup. Ot.

parol; and if the parties, for their mutual convenience, or for no
good reason at all, chose a delivery by rail, both of them consenting thereto, we think that the change in the mode of
delivery became a part of the contract.
3. There was evidence tending to show that, while defendant
was performing part of the contract, he received notice from
plaintiff that he would take no more stone from him; and also
evidence that, shortly after this, the parties had an interview, in
which this notice was waived, and Walker agreed to go on with
the contract. On this part of the case the court said: "If the testimony satisfies you that the defendant did, after
the notice of the 12th of May, recognize the contract as still in
force, and promise the plaintiff that he would go on and complete the same, the defendant cannot now claim as a defence to
this action that said notice released him from the performance
of the contract.
"If, on the contrary, you are satisfied that the defendant
made no agreement after the notice to stop on the 12th of May,
recognizing the contract as still in force, or promising to perform
it or continue it in force, then the defence may be considered
made out, although the notice to suspend might entitle the
defendant to dama es; but I do not think it necessary to discuss the question of the defendant's damages."
The court, however, did, in answer to a suggestion of counsel
for defendant, that the latter would have a right to damages for
the withdrawal of the contract by plaintiff, proceed to make
some remarks on that subject to which defendant excepts, and
which he now assigns for error.
We do not see any thing in these remarks to complain of, except that they were irrelevant to any issue in the case. There
was no plea or cross-demand under which those damages could
have been passed upon by the jury. As they in nowise prejudiced defendant in the present action, we are not called on to
consider further their soundness as matter of law.
4. The court was asked to instruct the jury "that verbal
admissions, while, if deliberately made and precisely identified,
they frequently furnish satisfactory evidence, are to be received
with great caution; and the attention of the jury should be
directed, in passing upon alleged verbal admissions, to whether

Oct. 1877.]

WALKER V. JOHNSON.

the witnesses testifying thereto distinctly understood the party
charged in what he said, and whether they have or have not,
intentionally or unintentionally, failed to express what was
actually said." But the court refused said instruction.
This is the ground of the last assignment of error.
There is nothing in the testimony, as we find it in the bill of
exceptions, to which such a charge could apply. There are no
admissions, properly so called, of defendant relied on in the
case. The testimony in regard to the renewal of the contract
after plaintiff's letter to defendant, that he would receive no
more stone from him, is not an admission: it is a conversation
between plaintiff and defendant, in which the contract is renewed or the abandonment waived. It is explicitly stated by
plaintiff that defendant agreed to recommence the delivery of
stone and complete the contract. Whatever else this may be,
it is no admission. This word, in the sense of the quotation
from Greenleaf, asked by counsel as a charge, means an admission by a party of some existing fact or circumstance which
tells against him in the trial, and does not relate to the
terms in which a substantive verbal contract is made by the
parties.
Besides, it is apparent that the attention of the jury was directed by the court to all the matters essential to their understanding the case; and we do not admit that a court is bound
to give to the jury, at the instance of counsel, every philosophical remark found in text-books of the law, however wise or true
they may be in the abstract, or however high the reputation of
the author.
We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
Affirmed.

