Oct. 187T.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

BURBANx

v. OoNIAD.

1. In Iouisiana, a conveyance of lands is valid between the parties without registration, and passes the title. The only consequence of a failure of the
purchaser to place his conveyance on the records of the parish where the
lands are situated is that he is thereby subjected to the risk of losing them
if they be again sold or hypothecated by his vendor to an innocent third
party, or if they be seized and sold by a creditor of his vendor for the latter's debts.
2. The Registry Act was not intended to protect the United States in the exercise
of its power of confiscation from the consequences of previous unrecorded
sales by the alleged offender. By the decree, the United States acquires for
his life only the estate which at the time of the seizure he actually possessed, not what he may have appeared from the public records to possess,
by reason of the omission of his vendees to record the act of sale to them;
and only that estate, whatever it may be, for that period passes by the
marshal's sale and deed.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
This was a suit for partition of certain real property in New
Orleans, and was brought in a district court of Louisiana. The
defendants had judgment, which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of the State, and the plaintiff brought the case here on
writ of error. The facts sufficiently appear in the opinion of
the court.
ERROR

3. Thomas ,J.Durant and Mr. J. Q. A. Fellows for the plain
tiff in error.
Mr. L. L. Conrad, contra.
E FrELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit for a partition of certain real property situated
in the city of New Orleans in the State of Louisiana. The plaintiff alleges that he is the owner of an undivided half of the premises; that the defendants are the owners of the other undivided
half; and that from the nature of the property it cannot be
conveniently divided in kind. He therefore asks a partition by
licitation; that is, by a sale of the premises and a division of
the proceeds.
The plaintiff asserts title to an undivided half by a deed of
the marshal of the United States, executed to him upon a sale
under a decree of the District Court, condemning and forfeiting
MR. JusT

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. ut.

the property to the United States, in proceedings taken against
it as the property of Charles M. Conrad, under the Confiscation
Act of July 17, 1862.
The defendants assert title to the whole property by a sale
by public act, made to them by their father, the said Charles
M. Conrad, before the recorder and ex-officio notary-public of
the parish of St. Mary, in Louisiana, on the 3d of June, 1862.
This parish was then within the Confederate lines; and the
Conrads, father and sons, were engaged in the rebellion against
the United States. The act of sale was not placed on record
in the city of New Orleans until 1870. The good faith of the
parties in the transaction is not questioned, nor is the sufficiency
of the consideration. But it is contended that the parties, being
public enemies in hostile territory, were incompetent at the
time to transfer or to accept the title to real property situated
within the Federal lines. And if this position should not be
sustained, it is further contended that the act of sale not having
been recorded in the city of New Orleans until after the condemnation of the property by the District Court and its sale by
the marshal, the plaintiff, as purchaser, took the title unaffected
by the transaction; in other words, that his position is that of
a third party buying upon the faith of the title standing in the
name of the elder Conrad upon the public records.
We have recently had occasion, in Conrad v. Taples (supra,
p. 279), to consider the first of these questions, and it will be
unnecessary here to do more than refer to our opinion in that
case. And the second question requires only a brief notice. The
object of requiring a public record of instruments affecting tho
title to real property is to protect third parties dealing with
the vendor, by imparting notice to them of any previous sale
or hypothecation of the property, and to protect the purchaser
against any subsequent attempted disposition of it. In Louisiana, the conveyance is valid between the parties without registration, and passes the title. The only consequence of a failure
of the purchaser to place his conveyance on the records of the
parish where the property is situated is that he is thereby subjected to the risk of losing the property if it be again sold or
hypothecated by his vendor to an innocent third party, or if it
be seized and sold by a creditor of his vendor for the latter's

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

debts. The second purchaser from the vendor and the bidder
at the judicial sale would, in that case, hold the property. The
United States never stood in the position of a second purchaser
of the property sold by the elder Conrad. They were not purchasers at any sale of his property. They had caused his estate
in the land, whatever that was, to be seized and condemned.
By the decree of condemnation, that estate vested in them for
the period of his life. His estate for that period was then their
property. The statute declares that the property condemned
"shall become the property of the United States, and may be
disposed of as the court shall decree." It was the property of
the United States, therefore, which was sold and conveyed at
the marshal's sale. The United States acquired by the decree,
for the life of the offender, only the estate which at the time of
the seizure he actually possessed; not what he may have appeared from the public records to possess, by reason of the
omission of his vendees to record the act of sale to them: and
that estate, whatever it was, for that period passed by the marshal's sale and deed; nothing more and nothing less. The
Registry Act was not intended to protect the United States in
the exercise of their power of confiscation from the consequences
of previous unrecorded sales of the alleged offender. It was in
the power of Congress to provide for the confiscation of the
entire property, as being within the enemy's country, without
limiting it to the estate remaining in the offender; but, not
having done so, the court cannot enlarge the operation of the
stringent provisions of the statute. The plaintiff had notice of
the character and legal effect of the decree of condemnation
when he purchased, and is therefore presumed to have known
that if the alleged offender possessed no estate in the premises
at the time of their seizure, nothing passed to the United States
by the decree, or to him by his purchase.
We see no error in the ruling of the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, and its judgment is
Affirmed.

MR. JusTiCE CLIFFORD dissenting.
Power was conferred upon the President, and it was made
his duty by the fifth section of the act to suppress insurrection,

294

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Ut.

to cause the seizure of all estate and property of the persons
designated in that section, and to apply and use the same and
the proceeds thereof for the support of the army. Proceedings
in rem were authorized for the condemnation of such estates
and property, the provision being that the proceedings should
conform as nearly as may be to proceedings in admiralty or
revenue cases, and that if the property is found to belong to a
person engaged in rebellion, or who has given aid and comfort
thereto, the same shall be condemned as enemies' property, and
shall become the property of the United States. 12 Stat. 589.
Pursuant to that act, an information in proper form was filed
against the several properties in controversy in these cases; and
the record shows that the same were formally condemned as
forfeited to the United States, as appears by the decree of the
District Court, fully set forth in the transcript. Due condemnation of the several properties having been adjudged, the writ
of venditioni exponas was issued; and the same were sold, the
defendant in the first suit and the plaintiff in the second being
the purchasers of the parcels, the respective titles of which are
in controversy in these suits. Formal conveyances were made
to the respective purchasers, they respectively being the highest bidders for the several parcels described in their respective
deeds of conveyance.
Certain parcels of the property sold as aforesaid are embraced
in Conrad v. Waples, which was commenced in the Circuit
Court by the present plaintiff against the purchaser under the
marshal's sale, and certain other parcels of the property are
embraced in the second suit, which was commenced in the
State court by the grantee of those parcels under the marshal's
deed, against the defendant in error in that case.
Service was made in that case; and the defendant appeared
and set up the seizure of the several parcels as the property of
Charles M. Conrad, and the condemnation and sale of the same
as previously explained, and the conveyance of the said parcels
to him, the defendant, by the marshal as the property of the
United States. Interlocutory proceedings of various kinds followed, which it is not important to notice. All such matters
having been adjusted, the parties went to trial, and the verdict
and judgment were in favor of the defendant. Exceptions were

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

taken by the plaintiff ; and he sued out a writ of error, and
removed the cause into this court.
Fee-simple title to the premises is claimed by the plaintiff by
virtue of a conveyance from his father, Charles M. Conrad, to
himself and his brother, called in the jurisprudence of that
State an act of sale, which was executed on the 6th of May,
1862, during the rebellion, before Joseph L. Nettles, recorder
in and for the parish of St. Helena, which at the time was
within the Confederate lines, the estate and property conveyed
being situated in New Orleans, which at the time was in the
possession of the army of the United States.
During the trial, the plaintiff offered that act of sale in evidence, in support of his title to the premises in controversy;
and the defendant objected to the introduction of the same,
upon six grounds: 1. That the act was not a sale, but a mere
giving in payment, and that no delivery of the property was or
could be made, inasmuch as the same was situated within the
Federal lines, and that the act was executed within the military
lines of the Confederate States, where the parties thereto were
sojourning. 2. That it being admitted that the vendor and
vendees had been before and were, at the date of the act and
afterwards, eDgaged in rebellion against the United States,
and so continued until the end of the war, and that the act
was passed within the Confederate lines, the property being
situated within the Federal lines, the act of transfer was inoperative and void. 3. That such evidence would tend to contradict the decree of condemnation previously entered in the
District Court, and set up by the defendant in his answer.
4. That it being admitted that the grantor and grantees were
enemies of the United States at the time the act was passed, the
grantor was incompetent to complete the transfer of the property, the same being within Federal military lines. 5. That
the copy of the act offered in evidence was not, by the statute
of the State, admissible in evidence against any right set up
by a I-ird person, without being accompanied with proof that
the same had been duly and legally registered in the proper
office where the properties were situated. 6. That a state of
war then existing, a deed executed in the parish of St. Helena,
within the Confederate lines, could not be legally recorded in

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

I Sul).

Ct.

the parish of Orleans, which at that date was within Federal
military lines.
These several objections to the evidence offered were sustained
by the court, and the plaintiff excepted, which presents the
principal question in the case.
Primarily, Burbank v. Conrad was a petition in the Fifth District Court of the city for partition, the present plaintiff, as
petitioner, claiming one undivided half part of the premises
under the aforesaid confiscation proceedings and sale. Process
was served; and the defendants appeared and pleaded that the
sale under those proceedings was void, the supposed owner of
the premises having had, at the filing of the information, no
right, title, or interest in the property. Instead of that, that
they were the true and sole owners of the same, by virtue of a
notarial act of sale executed by their father, June 3, 1862, before J. G. Parkinson, recorder of the parish of St. Mary, which
presents the same question as that involved in the other case,
it appearing that the place where the act of sale was executed
was within the Confederate lines.
Hearing was had, and the court rendered judgment in favor
of the petitioner. Prompt appeal was taken by the defendants
to the Supreme Court of the State, where the parties were again
heard, and the Supreme Court reversed the decree of the Fifth
District Court, and rendered judgment in favor of the defendants, that they have a valid title to the property described in
the petition. Judgment having been entered in favor of the
defendants, the plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and removed
the cause into this court.
Errors assigned by the plaintiff are, that the Supreme Court
of the State erred in reversing the decree of the Fifth District
Court, and in entering a decree in favor of the defendants that
they had a valid title, and that they be put in possession of the
premises.
Sufficient appears to show that the parties in each case claim
title to a certain portion of the estate and property condemned
as forfeited to the United States under the before-described
confiscation proceedings. Two of the claimants, to wit, the
defendant in the first suit and the plaintiff in the second,
set up title as purchasers under the respective deeds of the

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

marshal given to them respectively as purchasers at the confiscation sale. On the other hand, the plaintiff in the first suit
and the defendants in the second claim title as grantees of their
father, the respective conveyances bearing date during the rebellion, but before the passage of the confiscation act under
which the several properties were condemned as forfeited to
the United States for the treasonable acts of the father.
Conveyances of the kind appear in the record, the one to the
plaintiff in the first suit having been executed May 6, 1862, in
the parish of St. Helena, before the recorder of that parish,
within the Confederate lines, the plaintiff alleging that the
same was duly recorded May 81,1862, and the defendant denying the allegation in his answer; and the other having been
executed to the defendants in the second suit, June 8, 1862, in
the parish of St. Mary's, before the recorder of that parish,
-which was also within the Confederate lines; nor was the conveyance ever recorded until the 8th of December, 1870, in the
parish of Orleans, where the property is situated.
Argument to show that the proceedings to confiscate the
properties in controversy were correct in form is scarcely necessary, as no attempt is made to impeach their formality. Seizure of the properties in controversy was duly made under the
act of Congress referred to; and the information charged that
the owner of the properties seized, subsequently to the passage
of the act, did act as a member of the Confederate Congress,
and that he was engaged in armed rebellion against the United
States, and that by reason of the premises the properties described in the information, and all the right, title, interest, and
estate of the owner, became and were forfeited to the United
States, and ought to be condemned to their use.
Due monition issued and was served, which is notice to all
the world; and no appearance having been entered, the information or libel was taken as confessed. Proofs were taken
which fully established the charges; and the court entered a
final decree to that effect, and that the several properties be,
and the same are, hereby condemned as forfeited to the United
States.
Sales were subsequently made under a venditioni exponas
issued in due form; and the defendant in the first case and the

299

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Ct

plaintiff in the second case became the purchasers of the respective properties in controversy in these two suits.
Beyond all doubt, the title of the defendant in the first and
the plaintiff in the second is perfect and must prevail, unless
the claim set up by the plaintiff in the first suit and that set
up by the defendants in the second can be sustained, both of
which depend substantially upon the same state of facts.
Legal seizure of the property condemned was made on the
29th of July, 1863, and the record shows that the information
was filed on the 7th of August following. Judgment was rendered Feb. 3, 1865, and the sale followed under the writ of
venditioni exponas in the regular course of proceedings in such
a prosecution.
Jurists of all schools and courts of all nations agree that the
title to real estate is governed by the law of the place where it
is situated. Differences of opinion upon the subject existed at
one time; but the confusion which arose from the application of
inconsistent systems of law to such titles ultimately led courts
and jurists to narrow the law in all suits concerning immovable
property to that of the forum rei sitce. Whart. Confl. Laws,
sect. 273; United States v. Crosby, 7 Cranch, 115.
No estate of freehold in land can be conveyed in Massachusetts, unless it be by a deed or conveyance under the hand and
seal of the party; and, to perfect the title as against strangers, it
is further requisite that the deed should be acknowledged before
a proper magistrate, and be recorded in the registry of deeds
for the county where the land lies. Clark v. Grahaam, 6 Wheat.
577 ; Kerr v. loon, 9 id. 565.
Authorities to that effect are too numerous for citation; nor
is it necessary to extend the list, as the principle is now universally acknowledged. Suffice it to say, in the language of
Judge Story, that the title to real property can only be acquired,
passed, or lost, according to the lex rei sitce ; for which proposition he refers to the expressive language of Sir William Grant,
that the validity of every disposition of real estate must depend
upon the law of the country in which that real estate is situated.
Curtis v. Hutton, 14 Ves. 541; Story, Confl. Laws (6th ed.),
sect. 424.
Courts and jurists everywhere also agree that all trading in

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

time of war with a public enemy, unless by permission of the
sovereign, is interdicted when war is declared or duly recognized
by the belligerent parties. The Hoop, 1 0. Rob. 196; Exposito
v. Bowden, 7 Ell. & Bi. 779; Griswold v. Waddington, 15
Johns. (N. Y.) 57; 3 Phil. Int. Law, 108; White v. Burnley,
20 How. 235.
As soon as war is commenced, all trading, negotiation, communication, or intercourse between the citizens of the belligerent
countries must cease, without direct permission of the sovereign
power. 1 Chitty, Comm. Law, 379; 1 Duer, Ins. 419; United
States v. Grossmayer, 9 Wall. 72.
Six classes of persons are included in the fifth section of
the act, which makes it the duty of the President to cause the
seizure of all their estate and property, and to apply and use the
same, and the proceeds thereof, for the support of the army.
Due seizure is admitted; but the better opinion is, that it
was not intended that the mere act of seizure should vest the
property so seized in the United States, as the seventh section
provides that, to secure the condemnation and- sale of any such
property after the same is seized, proceedings in rem shall be instituted in the District Court; and that if it shall be found that
the property belonged to a person engaged in rebellion, or who
had given aid or comfort thereto, the same shall be condemned
as enemies' property, and become the property of the United
States, and may be disposed of as the court shall decree. Bigelow v. Forrest,9 Wall. 350.
Cases arise, undoubtedly, where the property in such a case isdivested out of the owner, and vested in the sovereign, immediately on the commission of the offence; as, where the words
of the statute are, that if a certain offence be committed the
forfeiture shall take place; or that if the described offence is,
committed the property shall be forfeited. United States v.
1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; United States v. The Brgantine Mars, 8 id. 416; The Annandale, Law Rep. 2 P. & D.
218; The Reindeer, 2 Cliff. 68; Robert v. Witherhead,12 Mod.
92; Wilkins v. lDespard, 5 T. R. 112; Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumn. 589; Henderson's -DistilledSpirits, 14 Wall. 44.
Unless the words of the statute are absolute, no such consequences follow until the property is condemned; as, where the

BURBANK

V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Ct

sovereign may by the terms of the same proceed against the
property or the person who committed the wrongful act, it is
held that the title does not vest in the sovereign until the
property is condemned. United States v. Grundy, 3 Cranch,
338.
Judgment was rendered Feb. 3, 1865, in the confiscation
proceedings; and from that time it must be admitted that the
title to the several properties was vested in the United States,
unless the title set up by the plaintiff in the first case and by
the defendants in the second can be sustained.
Sect. 5 of the act of July 13, 1861, provided that the President, whenever the contingencies therein specified should occur
in any State or States, or parts thereof, might, by proclamation, declare that the inhabitants of such State, section, or part
thereof are in a state of insurrection, and that thereupon all
-ommercial intercourse by and between the same and the citizens thereof, and the citizens of the rest of the United States,
shall cease and be unlawful, so long as such condition of hostility
shall continue. 12 Stat. 257.
Conformably to that authority, the President, on the 16th of
August in the same year, issued his proclamation, in which he
declared that the inhabitants of certain States, including the
State of Louisiana, were in a state of insurrection against the
United States, and that all commercial intercourse between
the same and the inhabitants thereof, with certain exceptions
not material to be noticed in this investigation, and the citizens
of other States and other parts of the United States, is unlawful, and will remain unlawful until such insurrection shall cease
or has been suppressed. Id. 1262.
Provision was also made by the fifth section of the said act of
Congress that all goods and chattels, wares and merchandise,
coming, after such proclamation, from such State or section
into the other parts of the United States, and all proceeding to
such State or section, by land or water, shall, together with the
vessel or vehicle conveying the same, or conveying persons to
or from such State or section, be forfeited. The Reform, 3 Wall.
617.
Public war, duly declared or recognized as such by the warmaking power, imports a prohibition by the sovereign to the

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

subjects or citizens, of all commercial intercourse and correspondence with citizens or persons domiciled in the enemy
country. Jecrer et al. v. Montgomery, 18 How. 110; The Rapid,
8 Cranch, 155; Potts v. Bell, 8 T. R. 548; Maclachlan, Shipp.
473; Wheaton, Int. Law, by Lawrence, 547; The William
Bagaley, 5 Wall. 377.
Attempt was made, in argument, to distinguish the first case
from the second, upon the ground that the supposed notarial act
of sale of the 6th of May, under which the plaintiff in the first
suit claims title, was, on the 31st of that month, registered in
the parish of Orleans, where the land is situated; but it will be
seen, by reference to the record, that the act of sale was made
subsequent to the secession of the State, and during the period
when the parish where the property is situated-was temporarily
within the Confederate lines.
Enemy parbies conveying or accepting conveyances of real
properties, under such circumstances, must be understood to do
so with the knowledge that the rightful sovereign, if he is successful in regaining the sovereignty of the State or district, may
refuse to recognize the validity of such a transfer, in a case
where it appears that the grantor, before the act of transfer was
executed, had been guilty of treasonable acts against his rightful
sovereign, and that both grantor and grantees were at the time
engaged in war against the rightful government. United States
v. Hukabee, 16 Wall. 414.
Proof of a decisive character is exhibited in the record, that
the rule of the Confederate States over the parish where the
property is situated ceased on the 2d of May, 1862, when the
national army landed there and took possession of the parish.
The Vrenice, 2 Wal. 258; The Ouachita Cotton, 6 id. 521.
Military possession by the Confederates followed secession;
and the insurgents continued to hold the city from the date of
secession to the time when our army landed there, or a few
days before, when the mayor of the city declared that the city
was undefended, and at the mercy of the victors.
Both the vendor and vendees were engagad in open rebellion
against the United States at the time the notarial act of sale
was passed within the insurgent lines, the property at the time
being situated within the Federal lines: from which it follows

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Ut.

that the vendor was legally incompetent to make sale and
delivery of the property to the vendees, and that the vendees
were legally incompetent to accept sale and delivery from the
rebel vendor. Actual delivery of the property could not lawfully be made, nor could the supposed act of sale be lawfully
registered in the parish where the land is situated; the proclamation of the President providing that all commercial inter
course between the insurrectionary State and the inhabitants
thereof with the citizens of other States and other parts of the
United States is unlawful, and will remain unlawful until such
insurrection shall cease, or has been suppressed. 12 Stat. 257,
1262.
Courts of justice, even with the consent of the opposite party,
will not enforce a right or contract in violation of a s~atute,
although not expressly declared void by the enactment. Powell,
Contr. 166; Coinyns, Contr. 59; Bank v. Owens, 2 Pet. 527;
Coppel v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542.
In war, says Chancellor Kent, every individual of the one
nation must acknowledge every individual of the other nation as
his own enemy, because the enemy of his country. It reaches
to intercourse, transfer or removal of property, to all negotiation and contracts, to all communication, to all locomotive intercourse, to a state of utter occlusion to any intercourse but one
of open hostility, and to any meeting but in actual combat.
Griswold v. IVaddington, 16 Johns. (N. Y.) 438; The Rapid,
8 Cranch, 155.
All intercourse, says Story, between the subjects and citizens
of the belligerent countries is illegal, unless sanctioned by the
authority of the government, or in the exercise of the rights of
humanity. The Julia, 8 Crauch, 181.
If a plaintiff cannot open his case without showing that he
has broken the law, courts of justice will not assist him to
recover, whatever the equities of his case may be. -Fowler v.
Scully, 72 Pa. St. 456.
Support to the opposite theory, it is supposed, may be derived
from the case of Kershaw v. Kelsey (100 Mass. 561); but it is
difficult to see what foundation there is for the supposition, if
the decision is confined, as it should be, to the matters involved
in the controversy. 'Take the facts as reported, and they are

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. OONRAD.

as follows: That the defendant, a citizen of Massachusetts,
being in Mississippi in February, 1864, took a lease for one
year from the plaintiff, a citizen of Mississippi, of a cotton
plantation situated in the latter State, for a rent of $10,000,
half in cash and half to be paid out of the cotton crop; the
lessor agreeing to deliver, and the lessee to receive and pay for,
the value of the corn then on the plantation.
It did not appear whether the defendant went into that State
before the war or after it began; nor was there any evidence of
any intent on the part of either party to violate or evade the
laws, or to oppose or injure the United States. Every presumption of that sort is negatived; but it appeared that the
defendant paid the first instalment of rent, took possession of
the premises, used the corn there, provided the plantation with
supplies to the amount of $5,000, planted and sowed it, and, in
the eaily spring, was driven away by rebel soldiers, and never
but once afterwards returned to the plantation.
How long the defendant had resided there prior to the contract of lease did not appear; but the report states that the
plaintiff continued to reside on the plantation, raised a crop of
cotton there, and delivered it to the son of the defendant, by
whom, in the autumn of the same year, it was forwarded to the
defendant, who sold it and retained the profits, amounting to
nearly $10,000.
Speaking of the facts, the court say, in effect, that the lease
was made within the rebel territory, where both parties were at
the time, and that it seems to contemplate that the lessee should
continue to reside there throughout the term; that the rent was
in part paid on the spot, and that the residue was to be paid
out of the produce of the land; that the corn the value of
which is sought to be recovered in the action was delivered
and used on the plantation; that no agreement was made that
the cotton crop should be transported, or the rent sent back,
across the line between the belligerents; that no contract or
communication appears to have been made across that line
relating to the lease, to the delivery of possession of the premises, or of the corn, or the payment of the rent of the one or
the value of the other.
These limitations, with one other which follows, should be

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Q,

carefully observed, as they furnish the key to what the cour-.
subsequently decided. None of the facts as reported are of a
character to require any modification of the laws of war as
expounded by the great jurists, to whose decisions reference
has already been made; and the court in that case very justly
remarked, that the fact that the cotton was subsequently forwarded by the son to the defendant, though it may have been
unlawful, cannot affect the validity of the lease, as the lease
does not contain any such stipulation.
Based upon the reported case, as thus very clearly explained,
the court decided that the facts did not contravene the law of
nations or the public acts of the government, even if the plantation was within the enemies' lines, and that the plaintiff
upon the case reported is entitled to recover the unpaid rent
and the value of the corn. Many other matters are doubtless
the subject of remark in the opinion, but the propositions as
stated embody every thing which the justices of the court
decided in the case.
Their decision is plain, and they make two admissions, - one
direct, and the other necessarily implied,- which are equally
plain: 1. That the act of forwarding the cotton to the defendant was unlawful. 2. That if the lease had contained
any agreement that the cotton crop should be transported or
the rent sent back across the line between the belligerents, or'
if any contract or communication had been made across that
line relating to the lease, the delivery of possession of the
premises or of the corn, or the payment of the rent of the one
or the value of the other, the agreement or contract would have
been void, as contravening the law of nations and the public
acts of the United States.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions and the authorities
referred to, it is clear that the registration of the act of sale of
the 6th of May was unlawful, and that the title in the first
case cannot be distinguished from the title in the second case,
where no registration was made in the parish where the land
is situated, until Dec. 8, 1870, nearly six years subsequent to
the date of the decree of condemnation. Nor does the registration in the first case give any more effect in law to the title
in that case than belongs to the title in the second, as it pur-

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

ports to have been made May 81, 1862, nearly a month subsequent to the time when the army of the United States landed
in the city of New Orleans, and put an end for ever to the temporary and unlawful occupation of that city by the military
forces of the Confederate States.
Suppose that such a registry, if it had been made during the
Confederate occupation, would have been valid as a transaction
between Confederates within the Confederate lines, still it is
clear that a notarial act of sale, executed before a Confederate
notary within the Confederate lines, could not be lawfully
recorded in the parish of New Orleans at any time after the
army of the United States landed there and took permanent
possession of the parish. Beyond all question, such a registration was unlawful and a nullity, as neither the grantor nor
grantees could use the Federal mails to send the document
there for registration, nor could they travel there for that purpose in person, or send an agent there to forward the same for
registration. Dean v. .Nelson, 10 Wall. 158; Lasere v. Rochereau, 17 id. 437; Montgomery v. United States, 15 id. 395.
One of the immediate and important consequences of the
declaration of war is the absolute interruption and interdiction
of all commercial correspondence, intercourse, and dealing
between the subjects of the two countries. 1 Kent, Com. (12th
ed.) 66. Nothing is better settled in legal decisions than the
doctrine that war puts an end at once to all dealing and all
communication of the citizens of one belligerent country with
those of the other belligerent country, and that it places every
individual of the respective governments, as well as the governments themselves, in a state of hostility. 1 Kent, Com. (12th
ed.) 67; Potts v. Bell, 8 T. R. 548; Woods v. Wilder, 43 N. Y.
168.
Judicial decisions to that effect are very numerous; and the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts admit that the law of nations,
as judicially declared, prohibits all intercourse between citizens
of the two belligerents inconsistent with the state of war, and
that the rule in that regard prohibits every act of voluntary
submission to the enemy, and every act or contract which tends
to increase his resources, and every kind of trading or commercial intercourse, whether by transmission of money or goods, or
VOL. VI.

20

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. U%

orders for the delivery of either, between the two countries,
directly or indirectly, or through the intervention of third
1persons or partnerships. Lawrence's Wheat. 557.
Neither delivery of the subject-matter nor registry of the act
of sale could lawfully be made; and whatever was unlawfully
done was a nullity, leaving the title of the property as if the
unlawful act had not been done.
Provision is made by law for the appointment of a register
of conveyances in that parish, and it is made his duty to register all acts of transfer of immovable property passed in that
city and parish, in the order in which the acts shall be delivered to him for that purpose; and it is provided that acts,
whether they are passed before a notary-public or otherwise,
shall have no effect against third persons but from the day of
being registered. Rev. Stat. La. (1870), p. 613, sect. 3159.
Conveyances of the kind must be registered in the public
registry of the parish or district where the premises are situated. Sess. Acts La. (1827), p. 136; Rev. Stat. La. (1870),
p. 613; Dooley v. Delaney, 6 La. Ann. 67; Code 1824, arts.
2242, 2250, 2417 ; Code 1870, arts. 2246 to 2266.
Sales of immovable property made under private signature
do not have effect against the creditors of the parties nor
against third persons in general only from the day such sale
was registered according to law, and the actual delivery of the
thing sold took place. Art. 2442.
Registration of such a conveyance in another and different
district is not notice to third persons, subsequent purchasers,
or attaching creditors. Pierse v. Blunt, 14 La. Ann. 345;
Carraby v. Desmarre, 7 Mart. N. s. (La.) 661; Wells v.
Baldwin, 5 id. 146; Smith v. His Creditors, 21 La. Ann. 241.
State authorities to that effect are numerous; but, inasmuch as
the question is one of decisive importance, it is deemed advisable to refer to all the leading cases. Lee v. Darramon,3 Rob.
(La.) 161; aradenigo v. Wallett, 9 id. 14; Crear v. Sowles,
2 La. Ann. 598; Tulane v. Levinson, id. 787; Tear v. Williams, id. 869; Sess. Laws La. (1855), p. 345.
Third persons, with respect to a contract or judgment, are
defined by the Code of 1824 to include all persons who are not
parties to a judgment or contract; and the same definition is

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

given to the same phrase by the Code of 1870, which is more'
immediately applicable to these cases. Code 1824, art. 8522,
n. 82, p. 1110; Code 1870, art. 8556, n. 82, p. 428.
Persons having no pecuniary interest in an appeal, and not
aggrieved by the decree, are properly denominated third persons in respect to the appeal. Morrison v. Trudeau, 1 Mart.
N. s. (La.) 384; Williams v. Trepagnier, 4 id. 342; Lafitte
v. Duncan, id. 622; Succession of Henderson v. Cross, 2 Rob.
(La.) 391.
Those not parties to a written agreement or instrument by
which their interest in the thing conveyed is sought to be
affected are properly designated as third persons in the jurisprudence of that State. Brosnaham, v. Turner, 16 La. 4383;
Wade v. larshall and James, 5 La. Ann. 157; Williams v.
Hagan, 2 La. 125; Code 1824, art. 8522, n. 82; lL1eiIanus v.
Jewett, 6 La. 537; Xittridge v. Landry, 2 Rob. (La.) 72.
When the act of sale of the 6th of May was first offered in
evidence, it was not accompanied by the certificate of registry,
and was excluded, upon the grounds heretofore sufficiently
explained. All that need be added in support of that ruling is
to say that it is fully sustained by the statute law of the State,
and by many decisions of the highest court of the State, to
which reference has already been made. Ruled out, as it was,
on that occasion, the plaintiff offered it again, with the certificateof registry annexed; and it was again excluded, upon the
further ground that the registration was null and void, and
inadmissible in evidence, because the vendees at the time, and
before and afterwards, were sojourning in the parish of St.
Helena, and were enemies of the United States, and, therefore,
that the registration of the act of sale could not legally be
made.
Sufficient has already been remarked to show that that ruling is correct, unless it be denied that the statute law of the
State, and the repeated decisions of the highest court of the
State for nearly seventy years, furnish the rule of decision.
Since the 24th of March, 1810, it has been law in that State
that "no notarial act concerning immovable property shall
have any effect against third persons until the same shall have
been recorded in the office of the judge of the parish where

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Cr.

such immovable property is situated." 3 Martin's Digest, 140,
sect. 7; Rev. Stat. La. (1856) 453; Rev. Stat. La. (1870)
617.
Any discussion of the facts is unnecessary, as it is conceded
that the vendor and the vendees were, at the date of the supposed act of sale, resident within the Confederate lines, and
that they were enemies of the United States ; that the grantor
was a member of the Confederate Congress; and that the grantees were officers in the Confederate army, and were engaged
in rebellion against the lawful government, from which it follows that a lawful registry of the property could not be made
in the parish where it is situated, without which the express
statute law of the State is that the supposed act of sale shall
not have any effect against third persons.
Nor is there any difficulty in supporting the decision of the
court upon the other ground assumed in the ruling; to wit, that
the supposed act was but the giving in payment, as understood
in the jurisprudence of that State, which is never effectual to
pass the title of property in that State, whether movable or
immovable, without delivery. It is of the very essence of
the dation en paiement, say the Supreme Court of the State,
that delivery should actually be made. Neither a sale nor a
dation en paiement can avail against an attaching creditor
when there has been no delivery. Schultz v. Morgan, 27 La
Ann. 616.
Pothier says that a gift in payment is an act by which a
debtor gives a thing to his creditor, who is willing to receive it
in the place and in payment of a sum of money or of some other
thing which is due to him. Pothier, by Cushing, sect. 601, p. 365;
7 Merlin, R6pertoire, verba dation en paiement, p. 55.
Giving in payment, as defined in the jurisprudence of Louisiana, is an act by which a debtor gives a thing to the creditor who
is willing to receive it in payment of a sum which is due; and
the decision is that it differs from the ordinary contract of sale
in this, that the latter is perfect by the mere consent of the
parties, even before the delivery, while the giving in payment
is made only by delivery. Code 1824, arts. 2625, 2626. And
the Code of 1870 employs the same exact words. Arts. 2655,
2656; .Durnfordv. Brooks, 3 Mart. (La.) 222; s. c. id. 269.

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK v. CONRAD.

Separate examination of the second case in this behalf is
quite unnecessary, as it is not pretended that the act of sale
from the father to the sons was registered in the parish where
the property is situated until nearly six years subsequent to the
pretended sale, so that if the universal rule of law is to prevail,
that the transfer of immovable property depends upon the law
of the place where it is situated, then it is clear that the suppused vendees acquired no title to the premises.
Vatkins v.
ifolman, 16 Pet. 57 ; Corbett v. Nutt, 10 Wall. 464; He Coon v.
Scales, 9 id. 23; Lawrence's Wheat. 164, 165.
Wheaton says that the law of the place where real property
is situated governs exclusively as to the tenure, the title, and
the descent of real property, and the notes of the editor fully
confirm the proposition.
War, in our jurisprudence, is not an absolute confiscation of
the property of the enemy, but simply confers the right of confiscation. Hence it was early determined that British property
found in the United States, on land, at the commencement of
hostilities with Great Britain, could not be condemned as enemy
property, without a legislative act authorizing its confiscation.
Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch, 110; Lawrence's Wheat.
530.
Discussion of that subject, however, is wholly unnecessary,
as the property in question in the cases before the court was
confiscated under an act of Congress, which, it is admitted, gave
unquestioned jurisdiction to the District Court which entered
the decree of condemnation.
From the passage of the act of Congress, it became the duty
of the President to cause the seizure to be made; and it is not
questioned that the power conferred was properly exercised,
nor is it denied in argument that all the proceedings were correct, the only defence in the one case and ground of claim in
the other being that the person named in the information as
the guilty party was not the lawful owner of the property
at the time of the seizure. Most of the grounds of that claim
and defence have 'already been sufficiently examined, and, it is
believed, have been fully refuted. Only one more remains for
examination, and that is, that the United States are not a ihird
party, within the meaning of the State law, and therefore that

310

BURBANK V. CONRAD.

[Sup. Ct.

an act of sale never registered in the parish where the property
is situated is sufficient to defeat the title of a purphaser derived
under the confiscation proceedings and the decree of condemnation.
Such a theory finds no support in the words of the act of
Congress, nor is there any authority to sustain it other than
what is found in the opinion of the State court in the case now
here for re-examination. Burbank v. C. A. J- L. L. Conrad,
27 La. Ann. 152. Cases of the kind are never regarded as
authority, for the reason that they are, by the express words of
the act of Congress providing for their review, subject to be
modified or reversed; nor can it be admitted that there is any
foundation for such a rule, as it would render the Confiscation
Act a public snare and a delusion.
Subsequent purchasers and attaching creditors, it is admitted,
would find protection in such a case ; but the argument is, that
enemies of the United States engaged in war against the lawful
government, and resident in the enemy territory, may defeat the
right of the government to punish treason by secret transfers
of enemy property situated within the lines of the Federal
army, without its being possible for the officers of the United
States to ascertain to whom any such transfer was made.
Unlawful registration is no better than none at all, for the
reason that, being void, it does not operate as notice to any
third party, and, if so, then it follows that neither the United
States nor the grantees of the United States had any knowledge
that the title of the guilty party had been previously transferred
under the laws of the rebel States. Fraud is not imputed to
the United States, and it is as certain as truth that the purchasers of the properties were as innocent of fraud as their
grantors.
Congress intended by the Confiscation Act, when it was duly
executed, to deprive the guilty owner of the means by which
he could aid the enemy, and it left in him no estate which be
could convey for that or any other purpose. Wallach et al. v.
Van 1iswick, 92 U. S. 202.
Where a party, domiciled at the beginning of the war in New
Orleans, subsequently went within the rebel lines, and there
engaged actively in business, and while so engaged purchased

Oct. 1877.]

BURBANK

V. CONRAD.

cotton which, when our army at a later period reoccupied the
city, was seized and sold, and the proceeds paid into the treasury, it was held, by the unanimous decision of this court, that
the purchase of the cotton was illegal and void, and that it gave
the puichaser no title whatever. Mitchel v. United States,
21 Wall. 850; Desmare v. United States, 93 U. S. 605. Whatever interest he had in the property had been seized as for.
feited to the United States, and placed, pending the suit, beyond
his reach or that of his creditor. All subsequently acquired
rights were subject to the prior claim of the United States, if
perfected by a decree of condemnation. Pike v. Wassell, 94
id. 711.
Human ingenuity, however great, cannot distinguish the
principle ruled in those cases from the case before the court;
and still it is insisted in argument that the grantees in the deed
from the guilty owner acquired a good title against the United
States, without delivery of the property and without legal registration in the parish where the property is situated. Immovable property, says Woolsey, in his treatise on International Law,
follows the lex rei sitce, or place where it lies; and he adopts the
rule promulgated by foreign writers, that he who wishes to
gain, have, or exercise a right to such property betakes himself
for that purpose to its place, and subjects himself voluntarily
to the local law which rules where the property is situated.
Woolsey, Int. Law, ยง 71.
Foreign codes, jurists, and the decided cases, says Westlake,
agree with the common law in maintaining the exclusive claims
of the situs to the jurisdiction concerning immovables. Differences of opinion, it is said by Burge, exist among jurists as to
the rule of decision where the contract affects the person as well
as things; but he says there is no difference among them in
adopting the lex loci rei sitce in all questions regarding the modification or creation of estates or interests in immovable property.
2 Burge, Com. on Col. & For. Laws, c. 9, p. 841.
Obligations to convey, if they be perfected secundum legem
domieilii, may be binding; but the conveyances themselves of
immovable property will not be effectual, unless executed according to the requirements of the local law. In the conveyance
of immovable property, or of any right affecting the same, the

SAN ANTONIO v. MEHAFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

grantor must follow the solemnities of the law of the place in
which the property lies, and from which it is impossible to remove it; for, though he be subject with respect to his person to
the lex domicilii, that law can have no authority over property
which has its fixed seat in another political jurisdiction, and
which cannot be tried but before the courts and according to
the laws where it is situated.
Two fatal defects, therefore, exist in the supposed title of
the sons to the properties in c.ontroversy, as shown by the
most conclusive evidence: 1. That the subject-matter of the
respective sales was never delivered to the supposed grantees,
as required by the lex loci rei site. 2. That neitler of the
supposed acts of sale was ever lawfully registered in the parish wlihre the property is situated, from which it follows, in
case either of the alleged defects is shown, that the decree
of condemnation vested the title to the same in the United
States.
Apply those rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the judgment in the first case should be affirmed, and that
the judgment in the second case should be reversed.

SAN ANTONIO V. MEHAFFY.
1. The twelfth section of the act of the legislature of Texas, entitled "An Act
to incorporate the San Antonio Railroad Company," which authorizes the
city of San Antonio to subscribe for the stock of said company, and issue
bonds to pay for the same, is not repugnant to the provision of the State
Constitution of 1845, requiring that "every law enacted by the legislature
shall contain but one object, and that shall be expressed in the title."
2. Certain bonds or securities issued by the city of San Antonio, March 1, 1852,
recite that "this debt is authorized by a vote of the electors of the city of
San Antonio, taken in accordance with the provisions of an act to incorporate the San Antonio and Mexican Gulf Railroad Company, approved Sept.
6, 1850," &c. Held, that the city is estopped from denying the verity of the
recital, and that the bonds or securities are valid in the hands of a ,ona fide
purchaser for value before maturity.
8. The fact that tie principal securities delivered to that company were not
sealed is imnmat-rial, because time act under which they were i-sued expressly
authorized those charged with the duty of making the subscription to "issue
bonds bearing interest, or otherwise pledge the faith of the city."

