UNITED STATES V. VAN AUKEN.

[Sup. Ct.

securing taxes rightfully due the government, may declare
such an act, when accompanied by such an intent, to be a
public offence, and prescribe a punishment therefor, we do not
doubt.
The views here expressed furnish a sufficient answer to the
questions propounded under the fourth count.
It will therefore be certified, as the opinion of this court,
on the points of division, -1.
That the second count of the
indictment is insufficient to authorize a judgment thereon.
2. That the fourth count is sufficient to authorize judgment to
be pronounced thereon against the defendant; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. VAN AUKEN.
tnder the second section of the act of Congress approved July 17, 1862 (lz
Stat. 692), which declares that "no private corporation, banking association,
firm, or individual shall make, issue, circulate, or pay out any note, check.
memorandum, token, or other obligation, for a less sum than one dollar,
intended to circulate as money, or to be received or used in lieu of lawful
money of the United States," A. was indicted for circulating obligations in
the following form: "BANGOR, M ten., Aug. 15, 1874.
"The Bangor Furnace Company will pay the bearer, on demand, fifty cents, in goods,
at their store, in Bangor, Mich.
(Signed)
"A. B. Iloemi, Pres.
"C,t s. D. RHoDEH, Treas."
The indictment charged that lie intended them to
be received and used in lieu of lawful money of
that, as the obligations were payable in goods and
of fifty cents was named merely as the liit of the
able, the indictment was bad on demurrer.

circulate as money, and to
the United States. Held,
not in money, and the sum
value of the goods demand.

CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Attorney- General and Mr. Assistant-Altorney-General
Smith for the United States.
Mr. George TV. Lawton, contra.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITIM

STATES V. VAN AUKEN.

MR.JUSTICE SWAI-T

delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of Congress of July 17, 1862, sect. 2 (12 Stat. 592;
Rev. Stat. 711, sect. 3583), declares that "no private corporation, banking association, firm, or individual shall make, issue,
circulate, or pay out any note, check, memorandum, token, or
other obligation, for a less sum than one dollar, intended to
circulate as money, or to be received or used in lieu of lawful
money of the United States," and denounces as a penalty for
the offence fine or imprisonment, or both.
Van Auken was indicted under this act for circulating the
"obligations" of the Bangor Furnace Company, a corporation
created by and under the laws of the State of Michigan, which
obligationq are alleged to be in hcec verba :Ticn., Aug. 15, 1874.
"The Bangor Furnace Company will pay the bearer, on demand,
fifty cents, in goods, at their store, in Bangor, Mlich.
(Signed)
"A. B. Houour, Pres.
"CiAS. D. RuODEI, Treas."
"BANGOR,

"Each of which said obligations was for a less sum than one dollar, and was intended by the said Aaron Van Auken to circulate as
money, and to be received in lieu of lawful money of the United
States, contrary," &c.
Van Auken demurred to the indictment. The opinions of
the judges of the Circuit Court were divided and opposed upon
two questions, which were thereupon certified to this court
for final determination: 1. Whether the obligation set forth in the indictment is
within any valid statute of the United States.
2. Whether the statute under which the indictment was
found is constitutional.
The solution of the first question depends upon the construction to be given to the words "for a less sum than one dollar."
The object of the provision was obviously to secure, as far as
possible, the field for the circulation of stamps, as provided in
the preceding section, without competition from any quarter.
This currency was superseded by the fractional notes authorized
to be issued by the act of March 3, 1863, sect. 4 (12 Stat. 711).
Small notes payable in any specific articles, if issued, could

UNITED STATES V. VAN AUKEN.

[Sup. Ot.

have only a neighborhood circulation, and but a limited one
there. It could be but little in the way of the stamps or small
notes issued for the purposes of circulating change by the United
States. Congress could, therefore, have had little or no motive
to interfere with respect to the former. This must be borne
in mind in the examination of the question in hand.
A dollar is the unit of our currency. It always means
money, or what is regarded as money. In this case, the statute
makes it the standard of measure with reference to the forbidden notes and obligations. If one of them be for a larger
" sum than one dollar," it is not within the prohibition, and is
not affected by the law. It is a fair, if not a necessary, inference, that the standard of measurement named was intended to
be applied only to things ejusdem generis ; in other words, to
notes for money, and to nothing else.
It is certainly inapplicable to any thing not measurable by
the pecuniary standard. It could not be applied where the
measurement was to be, ex gratia,by the pound, the gallon,
the yard, or any other standard than money. This view is
supported by the statutory requirement that the forbidden
thing must be "intended to circulate as money, or to be received or used in lieu of the lawful money of the United
States." One of the lexical definitions of the word "sum,"
and the sense in which it is most commonly used, is "money."
" Sum. (2.) A quantity of money or currency; any amount
indefinitely, as a sum of money, a small sum, or a large sum."
Webster's Dic. "For a less sum than one dollar " means
exactly the same thing as for a less sum of money than one
dollar. In the former case there is an ellipsis. In the latter,
it is supplied. The implication where the omission occurs is as
clear and effectual as the expression where the latter is added.
The grammatical construction and the obvious meaning are the
same. The statute makes the offence to consist of two ingredients: 1. The token or obligation must be for a less sum than a
dollar. 2. It must be intended to circulate as money, or in lieu
of the money of the United States. Here the note is for "goods,"
to be paid at the store of the Furnace Company. It is not payable in money, but in goods, and in goods only. No money could
be demanded upon it. It is not solvable in that medium. Wat-

Oct. 1877.]

Ex

PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

son v. JllcNairy,1 Bibb, 356. The sum of "fifty cents" is named,
but merely as the limit of the value in goods demandable and to
be paid upon the presentment of the note. Its mention was for
no other purpose, and has no other effect. In the view of the
law, the note is as if it called for so many pounds, yards, or
quarts of a specific article. The limit of value, there being
none other, gave the holder a range of choice as to the articles
to be received in payment, limited only by the contents of thp
store.
But it is said the indictment avers that the note was intended
to circulate as money, and that the demurrer admits the truth
of the averment.
To this there are two answers :
1. The demurrer admits only what is well pleaded.
2. The offence, as we have shown, consists of two elements:
the thing circulated, and the intent of the party circulating it.
The demurrer, at most, admits only the latter. As to the
former, the judgment of the court is left unfettered, just as if
the question before us had been raised by a motion to quash,
instead of a demurrer.
The first question certified must be answered in the negative. The second one it is, therefore, unnecessary to consider.
Ma. JUSTICE MmLER dissented.

EX PA TE SCHOLLENBERGE.
A foreign insurance company was doing business in Pennsylvania under a license
granted pursuant to a statute, which, among other things, provided that the
company should file a written stipulation, agreeing that process issued in any
suit brought in any court of that Commonwealth having jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and served upon the agent specified by the company to receive
service of process for it, should have the same effect as if personally served
upon the company within the State. Suit was brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by a citizen bf
.hat State against the company, and process served, in accordance with the
State law, upon its agent so specified, who resided within the district. The
service of the process was quashed, because the company was not an inhabitant of or found within the district. Held, 1. That the Circuit Court has
jurisdiction of the suit, and should proceed to hear and determine it. 2. That
said court is a court of the Commonwealth, within the intent of the statute.
24
VOL. VI.

