Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. OMAHA.

question before us as to the evidence upon which the conviction of the petitioner was had; nor does it appear whether the
envelope in which the prohibited circular was deposited in the
mail was sealed or left open for examination. The only ques
tion for our determination relates to the constitutionalit3 of the
act; and of that we have no doubt.
The commitment of the petitioner to the county jail, until'his
fine was paid, was within the discretion of the court under the
statute.
As there is an exemplified copy of the record of the petitioner's indictment and conviction accompanying the petition, the
merits of his case have been considered at his request upon this
application; and, as we are of opinion that his imprisonment is
legal, no object would be subserved by issuing the writs; they
are therefore
Denied.

NATIONAL BANx v. OmAHA.
1. Even though an appeal is asked for in open court, if the security is not taken
until after the term, a citation must be issued to bring in the parties, unless
they voluntarily appear.
2. The ruling in O'Rdlly v. Edrington (supra, p. 724), that a judge or justice cannot delegate to the clerk the power to approve the security upon writs of
erroi and appeals, approved, and applied to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.

M1r. J. 3. Woolworth for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
MR. Cnm.Er JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The decree in this case was rendered Nov. 13, 1874; and at
the end appears the following entry :
"Whereupon said complainant, by its solicitor, prays an
appeal to the Supreme Court of the United States, which is
allowed; and bond to be given on said appeal is fixed at .500."
A bond was filed Sept. 80, 1875, which appears to have been
VOL. vI

47

738

NATIONAl, BANK V. OMAHA.

[Sup. Ct.

approved by the clerk, and not by the judge. No citation has
been issued or served, and there is no appearance in this court
by the appellees.
We have decided at the present term, in Sage v. Railroad
Company (supra, p. 712), that, even though an appeal is asked
for in open court, if the security is not taken until after the
term, "a citation should be issued to bring in the parties, unless
they voluntarily appear, for, until the security has been accepted,
the allowance of the appeal cannot be said to have been perfected; " and, in O'Reilly v. Bdrington (supra, p. 724), that
"the security upon writs of error and appeals must be taken
by the judge or justice. He cannot delegate this power to the
clerk."
Appeal dismissed.

