Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR

V. HERMAN.

loom or otherwise, by machinery or with the needle, or othei
process not otherwise provided for, thirty-five per cent ad valorem. Articles embroidered with gold or silver or other
metals, thirty-five per cent ad valorem."
The rulings at the tijal were all upon this theory of the laws
imposing duties, and were correct.
Judgment affirmed

ATH UR v. HlFAmu

.

In 1872, A. imported certain goods manufactured of cattle hair and cotton, the
latter not being the component part of chief value. Held, that, under the last
paragraph of the sixth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 209), they
were subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorent.

ERInOR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In the year 1872, Herman & Co., the plaintiffs, imported from
England certain cheap goods, the warp of which was made of
cotton, and the filling or woof of cattle hair. These were the
only component parts of the goods.
The collector imposed a duty of thirty-five per cent on the
goods, under the act of June 30, 1864. The importers protested
against this charge as excessive, insisting that, under the second
section of the act of June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 231), but ninety per
cent of thirty-five per cent could be legally exacted as the duty.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, and the
defendant brought the case here.
The Solicitor-Creneralfor the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Stepten Cr. Clarke, contra.

HuTdelivered the opinion of the court.
The last paragraph of sect. 6 of the act of 1864 is as follows,
viz.: "On cotton braids, insertings, lace trimming, or bobbinet,
and all other manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for,
thirty-five per cent ad valorem."
The goods in question were manufactured from two materials,
of which cotton was one, and may, therefore, in general terms,
MR. JUSTICE

ARTHUR V. HERMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

be said to be manufactured of cotton, and they are not provided
for by any specific enumeration in the act of 1864. They fall
under the general clause of this act, just quoted.
Impliedly admitting the application of this provision to their
goods, the importers, by their protest, insist "that the merchandise aforesaid is only liable under existing laws to a duty of
ninety per cent of thirty-five per cent ad valorem, under the
second section of the act of June 6, 1872, as being merchandise
composed of animal hair and cotton."
On turning to the act of 1872, we find that the ninety per
cent provision is made applicable to "all manufactures of cotton, of which cotton is the component part of chief value."
The article in question is dutiable as a manufacture of cotton,
that material being one of its components. But the record
expressly states that cotton is not the component part of chief
value. It is plain that this case does not fall within the terms
of the clause.
The argument of the importers, if we appreciate it, is this:
The similitude clause of the act of Aug. 30, 1842 (5 Stat. 565,
sect. 20), provides that there shall be collected on every nonenumerated article, . . . manufactured from two or more materials, the highest duty assessable upon any of its component
parts. The article in question is manufactured from cow hair
and cotton ; of these the cotton is assessed at a higher rate of
duty than the hair, and, therefore, the article is assessed as a
manufacture of cotton, and hence it is insisted, under the act of
1872, as a manufacture of cotton it is entitled to the deduction
claimed.
The defect in this argument is apparent. The article in
question does not fall within the terms of either part of the
clause of the act of 1872, "all manufactures of cotton, of
which cotton is the component part of chief value." The first
part gives the deduction to manufactures of cotton, which
might be understood to mean those which are wholly of
cotton. If it also inc'udes a manufacture of which cotton is
one of the components only, the cotton must be the component of chief value. It certainly was not intended to embrace
a composite article of which cotton was the chief component, and a composite article of which it was not the chief

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR V. RHEIMUS.

component. In any aspect, it does not embrace the goods in
question.
We think the judge erred in ruling in favor of the importer,
and that there must be a new trial.
Judgment reversed and new trial ordered.

_ARTHUR V. RHEniS.
L The rule that an article, dutiable by its specific designation, will not be
affected by the general words of the same or another statute, which would
otherwise embrace it, applies as well to statutes reducing duties as to those
increasing them.
2. As the twelfth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 213), imposes a
duty of fifty per cent ad valorem upon artificial flowers eo nomine, they are
not subject to the deduction of ten per cent allowed by the second section
of the act of June 6, 1872 (17 id. 231), "on all manufactures of cotton of
which cotton is the component part of chief value."
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1874, Rheims, the plaintiff below, imported into the port
of New York a quantity of artificial flowers, composed of iron,
paper, wire, and cotton, and on which Arthur, the collector,
imposed, under the twelfth section of the act of June 30, 1864
(13 Stat. 213), a duty of fifty per cent ad valorem.
Rheims claimed that, under the second section of the act of
June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 231), the merchandise was liable only
to ninety per cent of the duty imposed by the act of June 30,
1864; but having, under protest, paid the duty imposed by the
collector, brought this suit to recover the excess.
Under the instructions of the court below, the jury found
that the importer was entitled to the deduction. From the
judgment rendered upon the verdict, this writ of error is
brought.
Mr. Assistant-Attorney-GeneralSmith for the plaintiff in error.
Mr.Stephen G. Clarke, contra.
JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The question for decision in this case is, whether the defend.

MiR.

