Oct. 1877.]

FELTON v. UNITED STATES.

FELTON V. UNITED STATES.
L Doing or omitting to do a thing "knowingly and wilfully" implies not only a
knowledge of the thing, but a determination with an evil intent to do it or
to omit doing it.
2. A distiller of spirits is presumed to be acquainted with the utensils and
machinery used in his business, and with their character and capacities.
But the law does not attach culpability and impose punishment where there
is no intention to evade its provisions, and the usual means to comply with
them are adopted.
8. All that the law requires of him, to avoid its penalties, is to use in good faith
the ordinary means -by the employment of skilled artisans and competent
inspectors -to secure utensils and machinery which will accomplish the end
desired. If, then, defects exist, and the end sought be not attained, or defects in the utensils or machinery not then open to observation be subsequently discovered, he is not chargeable with "knowingly and wilfully"
omitting to do what is required of him.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of iassachusetts.
The sixteenth section of the act of July 20, 1868, imposing
taxes on distilled spirits (15 Stat. 131), provides, among other
things, that the owner, agent, or superintendent of any distillery shall erect in a room or building, to be provided and used
solely for that purpose, two or more receiving cisterns; each to
be at least of sufficient capacity to hold all the spirits distilled
during twenty-four hours, into which shall be conveyed all the
spirits produced in the distillery; and that each cistern shall
be connected with the outlet of the worm or condenser by
suitable pipes or other apparatus, so as to prevent the abstraction of spirits while passing from the outlet of the worm or
condenser back to the still or doubler. The ninety-sixth section provides (id. 164) that if any distiller shall ' knowingly
and wilfully" omit, neglect, or refuse to do or cause to be done
any thing required by law in conducting his business, or shall
do any thing by that act prohibited, if there be no specific penalty or punishment imposed by any other section, he shall pay
a penalty of 81,000; and all distilled spirits or liquors owned by
him, or in which he has any interest as owner, shall be forfeited
to the United States.
This action was brought, by the United States, against

FILTON v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Felton & Stone, distillers of spirits, to recover the penalty of
51,000 prescribed by this act, upon the alleged ground that
they " knowingly and wilfully" omitted, neglected, and refused
to construct and maintain pipes and other apparatus connecting
the receiving cisterns in their distillery with the outlet of the
worm and condenser, in such manner as to prevent the abstraction of spirits while passing from the outlet back to the still
and doubler, contrary to the form of the statute in such case
provided. The defendants pleaded not guilty in "manner
and form as alleged," and denied every allegation of the
declaration.
On the trial it appeared that, the still of the defendants having become worn and defective, a new one was made and.
placed in their distillery, which proved to be too large for the
capacity of the low-wine receiver; and that on the 18th of
June, 1872, the low wines in it began to overflow; that the
defendants and their servants were ignorant of this want of
capacity of the receiver until it was too late to remedy it for
the distillation then taking place, and that there was no course
left for them but to let the wines overflow and run to waste, or
to catch them, and secure their benefit to the government and
themselves by dumping them into the vats for redistillation.
The receiver was a part of the apparatus by which the low
wines were carried from the try-box back to the doubler.
The superintendent of the distillery, oin the morning of
the 18th of June, 1872, apprehensive of the overflow, called
upon the assessor of the district, and asked permission to
draw off from the receiver a portion of the low wines, and
dump them into vats for redistillabion; and, failing to obtain
such permission from him, induced him to telegraph to the
commissioner of internal revenue to grant it for a few days,
until a new cistern could be built. The answer of the commissioner was a refusal to grant the permission, and a direction
that the defendants must build new cisterns. After this dispatch was sent, and before the answer was received, the superintendent arrived at the distillery; and, finding that the wines
had overflowed the receiver, he permitted a portion of the contents to be drawn off. This was effected by withdrawing a
plug from a pipe in the side of the receiver, about nine inches

Oct. 1877.]

FELTON V. UNITED STATES.

from its top. About four hundred gallons of low wines were
thus drawn off, and dumped into a vat, from which material for
distillation was at the time being pumped for redistillation.
The record states that this was done in good faith, for the purpose of saving the property for the defendants and the government. The evidence showed that the wines were worthless, or
next to worthless, except for redistillation, and were not iuar
ketable. Among other instructions to the jury, the court was
requested to give the following: "That if the inadequacy of
the low-wine cistern was unknown to the defendants and their
superintendent until too late to prevent the overflow, and that
then the superintendent, in the exercise of his best judgment,
acting in good faith, drew off the wines and dumped the same
into the vats for redistillation, the defendants were not liable."
The court refused to give this instruction; but charged the
jury that the defendants must be held accountable for the acts
of their superintendent in the management of the distillery,
and, if they found that he had violated the law by designedly
opening the low-wine receiver, and withdrawing the plug from
the pipe, so that the spirits could be and were abstracted while
passing from the outlet of the worm back to the still or doubler,
they were authorized to find against the defendants. The jury
found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and assessed their damages at
the sum of $1,000; but they accompa'nied their verdict with a
finding that there was only a technical violation of the law, and
that there was clearly no intention to defraud the government
thereby. Judgment having been entered upon the verdict, the
case was brought here on writ of error.
.Mr. Benjamin Dean for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Assistant-Attorneyl- aeneral Smith, contra.

MR. JusTioE FiELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The act of Congress, in requiring the apparatus connecting
the receiving cisterns in a distillery with the outlet of the
worm and condenser to be constructed in such a manner as to
prevent the abstraction of spirits while passing from the outlet
and, condenser back to the still and doubler, was designed to
guard against frauds upon the revenue, the perpetration of

FELTON v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

which would be facilitated by any other construction. It did
not intend to prohibit such abstraction when necessary, from
unforeseen contingencies, to prevent the waste or destruction of
the liquor. Accidents in the distillery- such as the breaking
of the bands of the cisterns, and leakage from unknown defects,
the danger of an approaching fire, and many other causes may not only render it necessary, but a duty, on the part of
the distiller, to draw off the liquor in the speediest way. The
spirit and purpose of the act are not to be lost sight of in a
strict adherence to its letter. The offence, therefore, of the defendants consisted, not in their taking measures to save the low
wines which were overflowing the receiver and running to waste,
by drawing off a portion of the contents of the receiver and
dumping it into the vats for redistillation, but in their omission
to have a receiver of sufficient capacity to hold the low wines
which were distilled on the eighteenth day of June, 1872i. If
they were culpable for the abstraction of the wines, it, was
because of such omission; and on this point the evidence failed
in an essential particular. So far from showing or tending to
show that, when the new still was made and placed in the distillery, the defendants, or any of their servants, had any knowledge of the incapacity of the receiver to hold all the wines
that might be distilled on any day, it showed their ignorance
of the defect until ft was Otoo late to remedy it for the distillation then taking place. There was, therefore, the absence of
that knowledge which could render the neglect wilful, and
therefore actionable. They must have "knowingly and wilfully" omitted to furnish a receiver of sufficient capacity, before
the severe penalty prescribed could be imposed upon them and
their distilled spirits subjected to forfeiture. Doing or omitting to do a thing knowingly and wilfully, implies not only a
ki;owledge of the thing, but a determination with a bad intent
to do it or to omit doing it. "The word 'wilfully,"' says
Chief Justice Shaw,

"

in the ordinary sense in which it is used

in statutes, means not merely 'voluntarily,' but with a bad
purpose." 20 Pick. (Mass.) 220. " It is frequently understood," says Bishop, "as signifying an evil intent without
justifiable excuse." Crim. Law, vol. i. sect. 428.
If the record were silent as to the want of knowledge of the

Oct. 1877.]

FELTOx V. UNITED STATES.

superintendent, it would be presumed from his connection with
the distillery that he knew the still was too large for the
capacity of the receiver; and from his knowledge similar
knowledge would be imputed to his principals. Parties are
presumed to be acquainted with the utensils and machinery
used in their business, and of course with their character and
capacities. But the law at the same time is not so unreasonable as to attach culpability, and consequently to impose punishment, where there is no intention to evade its provisions,
and the usual means to comply with them are adopted. All
punitive ]egislation contemplates some relation between guilt
and punishment. To inflict the latter where the former does
not exist would shock the sense of justice of every one.
While, therefore, the presumption against the parties of
knowledge of defects in the utensils and machinery of their distilleries is great, and not easily rebutted, it is not conclusive:
it can be overcome. Distillers are not supposed to 1-e -;x
perienced machinists, familiar with the construction of their
different works, and with every thing required to render them
perfect in all their parts. In many particulars they must necessarily rely to a great extent upon others. All that the law
does require or can require of them, to avoid its penalties, is to
ube in good faith the ordinary means-by the employment of
skilled artisans and competent inspectors-to secure utensils
and machinery which will accomplish the end desired. If defects should then exist, and the end sought be not attained, or
defects not then open to observation should subseqnently be
discovered, the parties cannot be charged with "l1owingly
and wilfully" omitting to do what is required of them. We
think, therefore, that the instruction requested should have
been given. The object of the law in all its stringent provisions is to prevent fraud upon the revenue and to secure the
tax levied. Here no fraud was intended by the defendants
It is so found by the jury; and, moreover, none could have been
committed by them in what they did. The low wines drawn
off passed into the vat, with other matter, for distillation.
They were in that condition worthless, or nearly so, except for
redistillation: they were not marketable spirits. The record
so states, and adds that the 'parties in drawing off the wines,

PRATT V. PRATT.

[Sup. Ct

which were running over and going to waste, acted in good
faith for the purpose of saving the property for themselves and
the government; that is, as we understand it, of saving the
property, and securing the tax to the government. If a purpose to evade the laws be an element in the offence charged,
the defendants could not, under the evidence presented by the
record, be rightfully subjected to the penalty prescribed and
the forfeiture of their property.
The judgment will be reversed, and case remanded for a
new trial; and it is
So ordered.

PRATT V. PRATT.
1. The Statute of Limitations applicable to the action of ejectment has no relation to the lien of a judgment creditor on the lands, though the judgment
debtor may sell and convey them with possession to the party setting up the
statute.
2. That statute does not begin to run in such case until the lands have been sold
under an execution sued out on the judgment, and the purchaser of them
becomes entitled to a deed; because, until then, there is no right of entry or
of action against the party so in possession.
3. That statute begins to run against the judgment creditor only when he is such
purchaser, and can bring ejcctment. These propositions are applicable to
the statute of Illinois of 1835 liniting actions for the recovery of lands
to seven years.

ERaO R to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Jerome Carty for the plaintiff in error.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MAfR.
JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment in which plaintiff in error was
plaintiff below. On the trial, lie proved title in Isaac Speer in
August, 1857, at which time lie recovered a judgment against
said Speer, under which the land in controversy was sold July
8, 1863, and a deed made to plaintiff, founded on that sale,
Feb. 24, 1865. There does not seem to be any question but

