<)Ot. 1877.]

ARTHUR V. HOIER.

the fact that they would otherwise fall under the general
designation applicable to other subjects.
Under the principles of the cases already decided, it is clear
that excessive duties were exacted, and that the rulings of the
judge on the trial were correct.
Judgment affrmed.

AnTHU

v. Homr.

1. The duty imposed on embroidered linen goods by the twenty-second section
of the act of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 192), is not reconsidered in the seventh
section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 id. 209), but remains as fixed by the
former act.
2. A statute does not, by implication, repeal a prior one, unless there is such a
positive repugnancy between them that they cannot stand together.

to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1873, Homer & Co. imported into the port of New York
certain goods, of which linen was the basis, upon which the
collector imposed and collected duties at the rate of forty per
cent, under the seventh section of the act of June 30, 1864
(13 Stat. 209). The importers insisted that they were dutiable
at thirty-five per cent only, under the twenty-second section
of the act of March 2,1861 (12 id. 192), and brought this action
to recover the alleged excess of duties.
The plaintiffs introduced testimony tending to show that the
goods were dress patterns, or patterns for dresses, designed for
ladies' wear, each piece, or the contents of each carton, corn
prising the material for a garment, either as an overskirt (rolonaise) or dress (robe a jour), although not made up. The size
of these paterns or articles varied from about eight to twelve
yards. About the edge, or above it, and arranged so as to
form an appropriate ornamentation to the article when made
up for wear, there was worked, sometimes in cotton thread
and sometimes in linen thread, more or less embroidery. The
amount of this embroidery and its elaboration was a substantial
and influential element in the cost or value of the article.
The component material of chief value in the articles in
ERRo0,

ARTHUR V.

HOMER.

[Sup. Ct.

question was flax or linen, as embroidered; and in the condition
in which they were imported, -packed in cartons and boxes,the value of the goods exceeded thirty cents per square yard.
The testimony further showed that the general descriptive
and commercial names of the articles in question were polonaise and robe, more particularly described as linen embroidered robes and linen embroidered polonaise, &c.
The court below directed the jury to find a verdict for the
plaintiffs; and from the judgment entered upon such verdict
this writ of error is brought.
The Solicitor-General for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward Hartley, contra.
MR. JUsTIcE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

Sect. 14 of the act of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 185, 186),
imposes duties in the following words, viz. "On all brown or bleached linens, ducks, canvas, paddings, cotbottoms, burlaps, drills, coatings, brown hollands, blay linens,
damasks, diapers, crash, huckabacks, handkerchiefs, lawns, or other
manufactures of flax, jute, or hemp, or of which flax, jute, or hemp
shall be the component material of chief value, being of the value of
thirty cents and under per square yard, twenty-five per cent ad valorem; valued above thirty cents per square yard, thirty per cent ad
valorem; on flax or linen threads, twine, and pack-thread, and all
other manufactures of flax or of which flax shall be the component
material of chief value, and not otherwise provided for, thirty per
cent ad valorem."
The twenty-second section (12 Stat. 192) imposes a duty of
thirty per cent on "manufactures of cotton, linen, silk, wool,
or worsted, if embroidered or tamboured in the loom, or otherwise, by machinery or with the needle, or other process not
otherwise provided for."
The tenth and thirteenth sections of the act of July 14,
1862 (12 Stat. 554-557), impose five per cent additional duty
on each of the above enumerations totidem verbis.
The seventh section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat.
209), imposes duties as follows "On brown and bleached linens, ducks, canvas, paddings, cotton
bottoms, burlaps, diapers, crash, huckabacks, handkerchiefs, lawns,

Oct. 1877.]

O RTHUR

V. HomER.

or other manufactures of flax, jute, or hemp, or of which flax, jute,
or hemp shall be the component material of chief value, not otherwise provided for, valued at thirty cents or less per square yard,
thirty-five per cent ad valorem; valued at above thirty cents per
square yard, forty per cent ad valorem. On flax or linen yarns
for carpets, not exceeding number eight Zea, and valued at twentyfour cents or less per pound, thirty per cent ad valorem. On fla
or linen yarns valued at above twenty-four cents per pound, thirty.
five per cent ad valorem. On flax or linen thread, twine, and packthread, and all other manufactures of flax, or of which flax shall be
the component material of chief value, not otherwise provided for,
forty per cent ad valorem."
The twenty-second section was as follows (id. 216) :
"Andprovidedfurther, that the duties upon all goods, wares, and
merchandise imported from foreign countries, not provided for in
this act., shall be and remain as they were according to existing
laws prior to the 29th of April, 1864."
It will be seen by this juxtaposition, that sect. 14 of the act
of 1861, and sect. 7 of the act of 1864, are, in their first and
general paragraphs, nearly identical. Except as to that portion of the act of 1864, describing linen yarns, which is placed
above in Italics, and the rate of the duty provided, they are
nearly the same, word for word. In the paragraphs following
they differ. The act of 1861 contains the provision that "manufactures of cotton, linen, silk, wool, or worsted, if embroidered or
tamboured, in the loom or otherwise, by machinery or with the
needle, or other process not otherwise provided for," shall be
subject to a duty of thirty per cent.
The act of 1864 omits this provision, but contains the following clause: "-Provided further,that the duties upon all goods, wares, and
merchandise imported from foreign countries, not provided for in
this act, shall be and remain as they were according to existing
laws prior to the 29th of April, 1864."
It seems impossible to resist the conclusion that Congress
intended by the act of 1864 to revise the duties on brown and
bleached linens generally, increasing them from twenty-five
and thirty per cent, as they were by the act of 1861, to thirty-

ARTHUR V. HOMER.

[Sup. Ot.

five and forty per cent, but on embroidered or tamboured manufactures of linen the duties were intended to remain as they
were prior to the 29th of April, 1864.
To induce a repeal of a statute by the implication of inconsistency with a later statute, there must be such a positive
repugnancy between the two statutes that they cannot stand
together. lIfecool v. Smith, 1 Black, 459; Wood v. United
States, 16 Pet. 342; United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88.
In the present case, the statutes are in perfect harmony, and
there is no room for the theory of repeal by implication.
The test of the rate of duty we are considering is that of
embroidery, or not. The rate of duty upon plain linen goods
is reconsidered in the act of 1864, and is fixed at thirty-five
per cent where the goods are valued at thirty cents or less per
square yard, and at forty per cent where they are valued above
that sum. This is a higher rate of duty than that imposed by
the act of 1861; and, if there were no repealing clauses, then it
would necessarily operate as a repeal of the old duty, by its
repugnancy. The rate-of duty on embroidered goods is not
reconsidered in the act of 1864. This class of goods is not
there mentioned, but falls under the description of goods
"not provided for in this act," which, it is declared, shall remain as they were on the 29th of April, 1864. They remain,
therefore, subject to the duty imposed by the act of March,
1861.
That this is a correct interpretation of these statutes is
shown by the later provision of the Revised Statutes of 1874,
wherein the duties are set forth in precise accordance with the
construction we have here given.
1st, At pp. 465,466, a duty is imposed on brown and bleached
linens, ducks, canvas, &c., of thirty-five per cent where the
value does not exceed thirty cents per square yard, and of forty
per cent where the value is greater.
2d, Flax or linen yarns for carpets are dutiable at thirty-five
or forty per cent, according to their value. These duties are
as provided in the act of 1864, and the marginal reference is to
that act.
8d, At p. 479 is the provision, "Embroidery, manufactures
-of cotton, linen, or silk, if embroidered or tamboured, in the

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR

V. HERMAN.

loom or otherwise, by machinery or with the needle, or othei
process not otherwise provided for, thirty-five per cent ad valorem. Articles embroidered with gold or silver or other
metals, thirty-five per cent ad valorem."
The rulings at the tijal were all upon this theory of the laws
imposing duties, and were correct.
Judgment affirmed

ATH UR v. HlFAmu

.

In 1872, A. imported certain goods manufactured of cattle hair and cotton, the
latter not being the component part of chief value. Held, that, under the last
paragraph of the sixth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 209), they
were subject to a duty of thirty-five per cent ad valorent.

ERInOR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In the year 1872, Herman & Co., the plaintiffs, imported from
England certain cheap goods, the warp of which was made of
cotton, and the filling or woof of cattle hair. These were the
only component parts of the goods.
The collector imposed a duty of thirty-five per cent on the
goods, under the act of June 30, 1864. The importers protested
against this charge as excessive, insisting that, under the second
section of the act of June 6, 1872 (17 Stat. 231), but ninety per
cent of thirty-five per cent could be legally exacted as the duty.
Judgment was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs, and the
defendant brought the case here.
The Solicitor-Creneralfor the plaintiff in error.
Hr. Stepten Cr. Clarke, contra.

HuTdelivered the opinion of the court.
The last paragraph of sect. 6 of the act of 1864 is as follows,
viz.: "On cotton braids, insertings, lace trimming, or bobbinet,
and all other manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for,
thirty-five per cent ad valorem."
The goods in question were manufactured from two materials,
of which cotton was one, and may, therefore, in general terms,
MR. JUSTICE

