CASEY V. SCHNEIDER.

[Sup. CL

case remitted with directions to enter a decree for the complainant below in conformity with this opinion; and it is

So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE, MP.u. JUSTICE

FiED, and Mn. Jus-

TICE HARLAN dissented.

CASEY v. ScHNME.
Under the statute of Louisiana relating to pledges of negotiable and other securities, which was in force in the year 1873, when the transaction in this case
took place, the actual delivery of such securities was sufficient to constitute a
pledge.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The bill in this case was filed by Casey, receiver of the New
Orleans National Banking Association, against Louis Schneider,
George Jonas, and Patrick Irwin, the original defendants, who
were trustees for the New Orleans Clearing-house, to compel
them to deliver up notes and bills receivable and other securities to the amount of $223,677.25, and other assets to the
amount of $57,500, which were pledged to the said trustees to
secure the payment of clearing-house certificates issued to
said bank to the amount of $199,000, from the 25th of September, 1873, to the time of its failure, Oct. 4 in that year, to
enable it to settle its daily balances and exchanges with the
other banks of the city represented in said clearing-house.
These securities were delivered to the trustees in pledge as
aforesaid at or before the issue of the clearing-house certificates which they were intended to secure; and said securities,
or the proceeds thereof, were, until the bringing of this suit,
kept by the trustees in their own possession for the purposes for
which they had been pledged.
The articles of association, or agreement under which this
transaction took place, were contained in an act passed before
a notary-public on the 24th of September, 1873, when the several
banks temporarily suspended cash payments under the influence

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. SCHNEIDER.

of the financial panic which then occurred. The following is
a copy of the provisions of said act, which was signed and
entered into by fifteen banks of New Orleans:"Be it known that on this twenty-fifth day of the month of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-three, befbre me, Theodore Guyol, a notary-public, duly
commissioned and sworn, for the parish of Orleans, State of Louisia:, and in the presence of the witnesses hereinafter named and
undersigned, personally appeared the parties whose names are hereinalter subscribed, acting for and in the names of the banks and
firms which they severally represent, who declared that in their
several capacities they had made and entered into the following
agreements and stipulations, which shall govern their mode of procedure for and during the thirty days ensuing the date hereof:
M1essrs. Louis Schneider, George Jonas, and Patrick Irwin are
hereby appointed as trustees to act on behalf of the parties to this
agreement, the said Louis Schneider to act as president of the said
trusteeship. The said trustees are hereby empowered to issue certificates to each bank and banker, upon deposits of collaterals, to
the extent of seventy-five per cent of what the said trustees shall
deem their par value, the said certificates to be called clearing-house
certificates, and to be in sums of not less than $1,000, and not more
than $5,000 each. The said trustees shall select a bank to deposit
the collaterals lodged with them. The banks and bankers herein
represented as parties to this act are hereby bound to issue only
certified checks in payment of all sunis over $25, and not to pay
currency in sums exceeding $25 upin the checks of any depositor
on the same day. The parties to this agreement shall use certified
checks in the purchase of domestic or foreign exchange, and clearing-house certificates only in settlement of their daily exchanges
and balances. All new deposits shall be payable in the same kind
of currency as that deposited. The several banks and bankers
herein represented are hereby bound not to increase their present
line of discounts, and to use all efforts to curtail their liabilities.
In case, at the expiration of thirty days from this date, any of the
parties to this act should fail to redeem the collaterals deposited by
them as aforesaid, the said trustees are hereby authorized and
empowered to sell and dispose of the said collaterals at private sale
to the best of the interest of the parties interested, and to apply the
proceeds of such sales to the redemption of said certificates; the
whole without any intervention of justice. This agreement being
VOL. V1.
32

CASEY V. SCHNEIDER.[

[Sup. Ot.

made and entered into to prevent the drain of currency which
would inevitably take place on the banks of New Orleans, it is
understood that it shall not apply to gold deposits, which are to be
paid and settled in the usual manner."
The court below dismissed the bill, and from that decree the
receiver appealed here.
Hr.J D. rouse and Mr. Charles Case for the appellant
34r. Thomas Allen Clarke, contra.
MR.JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is obvious that this transaction is free from the objection
which applied in the other cases which we have just considered. In this case, there was an actual delivery of the securities pledged, at the time of advancing the certificates given on
the faith thereof, and a continued retention of possession of the
pledge.
The only objection raised in the case which we deem it
necessary to consider is, whether a mere delivery of the securities was sufficient to constitute a pledge; and this depends on
the question whether the act of 1855, relating to pledges of
negotiable and other securities, was in force in 1873. We
think there is no doubt that it was in force. That act was first
adopted in 1852, and was re-enacted in 1855. It modified
those provisions of the Civil Code, art. 3158, &c., which
required a transfer by indorsement and other formalities, in
order to make a good pledge. The act in question declared,
"that where a debtor wishes to pawn promissory notes, bills
of exchange, stocks, obligations, or claims upon other persons,
he shall deliver to the creditor the notes, bills of exchange,
certificates of stock, or other evidences of the claims or rights
so pawned; and such pawn so made, without further formalities, shall be valid, as well against third persons as against
pledgers thereof, if made in good faith."
Ever since this enactment, its words have been inserted in
the Code itself, in every successive edition, in immediate connection with the articles which it modifies. The articles themselves are reproduced, it is true; but it is probable thot they

•Od. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO. V. MAINE.

,cover some cases which are not affected by the statut6s, and
hence the reproduction of them is proper; but whether so or
not, we hold that the insertion of the statute in connection
'vith them continues in effect the modification -which it
created. Subsequent articles of the Code relating to the registration of all privileges and other formalities, being previous to
the statute in point of time, cannot affect its operation, though
standing on a later page and in a subsequent place in the body
of the Code.
This consideration meets the objection arising from the
general repealing section of the Revised Statutes, which repeals
all statutes and parts of statutes -which are not incorporated
into the Code, and are repugnant to its provisions.
We are of opinion that the statute was in force, and that
the actual delivery of the securities was sufficient to constitute
a pledge.
Decree affirmed.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.

IAI-E.

L Where two or more corporations, subjected to a special tax upon the net
income of their roads, with immunity from other taxation, - the amount
of such special tax being dependent upon reports to be made and information communicated by their directors and other officers, - are consolidated
into a new corporation, with different directors and other officers, who are
neither bound nor able to make the reports and give the information required
of the original companies, the new corporation thus created is not entitled
to the immunity of the original companies from general taxation.
.2. A new corporation may be created by the union of two or more corporations,
and its powers and privileges designated by reference to the charters of other
companies as well as by special enumeration.
-3. The act of the legislature of Maine of 1850, authorizing two or more existing
corporations to consolidate and form a new corporation, was an act of incor
poration of the new company; and the latter, upon its formation, became
at once subject to the provisions of the general law of 1831, which declared
that any act of incorporation subsequently passed should at all times thereafter "be liable to be amended, altered, or repealed at the pleasure of the
legislature, in the same manner as if an express provision to that effect
were therein contained, unless there shall have been inserted in such act of
incorporation an express limitation or provision to the contrary." So long
as this provision remained unrepealed, subsequent legislation not repugnant
to it was controlled by it, and is to be construed and enforced in connection
with it.

