Oct.

1877.]

GOLD-WASHING & WATER CO. v. KEYES.

199

GOLD-WASHInG AND WATER COMPANY V. K~Es.
1. A petition for the removal of a suit from a State court to a Federal court is
insufficient, unless it sets forth in due form, such as is required in good pleading, the essential facts not otherwise appearing in the case, which, under the
act of Congress, are conditions precedent to the change of jurisdiction.

2. A suit cannot he so removed, under the second section of the act of March 3,
1875 (18 Stat. 470), simply because, in its progress, a construction of the
Constitution or a law of the United States may be necessary, unless it, in
part at least, arises out of a controversy in regard to the operation and effect
of some provision in that Constitution or law upon the facts involved.
8. As important questions of practice are likely to arise under that act, this
decision is to be considered as conclusive only upon the question directly
involved and decided.

ERROi to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of California.
This was a suit in the nature of a bill in equity, commenced
July 29, 1876, in a State court of California, by Keyes, the
owner of certain agricultural lands situated on Bear River, against
the Little York Gold-Washing and Water Company, and others,
the plaintiffs in error, who were engaged in hydraulic mining
upon the highlands adjacent to that river and its tributaries, to
restrain them from depositing the tailings and debris from their
several mines in the channel of the river. The defendants demurred to the complaint; and, before the term at which the
cause could be first tried, filed their petition, accompanied by
the necessary bond, for the removal of the suit to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of California, under
the provisions of the act of March 3, 1875 (18 Stat. 470). The
material parts of the petition, which was otherwise in due form,
are as follows: "Your petitioners further represent that they are the owners of
certain extensive and valuable gold-bearing placer mines, situated
in the counties of Placer and Nevada, in said State of California,
which they claim under the laws of the United States, and are
engaged in working the same by what is known as the hydraulic
process of mining; that said hydraulic process necessarily requires
the employment of large heads or streams of water used through
pipes or hose, under heavy pressure, for the purpose of loosening or
washing the gold-bearing earth and gravel contained in said mining

200

GOLD-WASHING & WATER CO. v. KEYES.

[SUp. CL.

claims into large flumes, where the gold is separated from the earth
by the action of the water, and is retained. That the gold in said
claim is distributed in very fine particles throughout the entire
gravel deposit, and cannot be obtained in any other manner, nor
can said mining claims of your petitioners be worked in any other
manner save by said hydraulic process; that in working said mines
your petitioners necessarily deposit in the channels of the Bear River
and its tributaries large quantities of tailings from said mines; that
the said Bear River and its tributaries are the natural and only
outlets for said hydraulic gold-mines; and your petitioners claim
the right to work, use, and operate said mines, and, in so doing, to
use the channels of Bear River and its tributaries as a place of de..
posit for their said tailings, under the provisions of the act of Congress of the United States, entitled 'An Act granting the right of
way to ditch and canal owners over the public lands, and for other
purposes,' passed July 26, 1866, and the act amendatory thereof,
passed July 9, 1870, and the 'Act to promote the development of
the mining resources of the United States,' passed May 10, 1872,
and other laws of the United States.
"That said action arises under, and that its determination will
necessarily involve and require the construction of, the laws of the
United States above mentioned, as well as the pre-emption laws of
the United States. That the mines of your petitioners are of great
value, to wit, of an aggregate value of not less than ten millions of
dollars; and that if your petitioners are prevented from using the
said channels of Bear River and its tributaries as outlets for their
said tailings and water, their said mines will be thereby rendered
wholly valueless."
The State court accepted the petition and bond, and transferred the suit; but the Circuit Court remanded it, on the ground
that no real or substantial controversy, properly within the
jurisdiction of that court, appeared to be involved. To obtain a review of this action of the Circuit Court, the present
writ of error has been brought, under the provision of sect. 5
of the act of 1875, which gives authority for that purpose.
Mr. S. N. Wilson for the plaintiffs in error.
Although the construction of the act of March 3, 1875 (18
Stat. 470), under which the removal of this cause was ordered,
has not been judicially settled, the sixth article of the Constitution, which differs from it only in not limiting the jurisdiction

Oct. 1877.]

GOLD-WASHING & WATEr

CO. V. KEYES.

of the courts of the United States to cases of a civil nature, has
been the subject of repeated decisions. Martin v. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 804; Coens v. Tvirginia, 6 id. 264; Osborne
et al. v. The Bank of the United States, 9 id. 738. And the case
at bar seems to be within their principlhs.
Another argument in favor of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court is found in the fact that, if the case should proceed in the
State court, it may eventually be brought here by the defendants, should a decision adverse to their rights under the acts of
Congress be rendered. Delmas v. Insurance Company, 14 Wall.
661; Hall v. Jordan, 15 id. 393; Crapo v. Kelly, 16 id. 610.
Hr. .ilontgomery Blair, contra.
MR. CHI F JUSTICE WAnuE delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is well settled that in the courts of the United States the special facts necessary for jurisdiction must in some form appear in
the record of every suit, and that the right of removal from the
State courts to the United States courts is statutory. A suit
commenced in a State court must remain there until cause is
shown under some act of Congress for its transfer. The record
in the State court, which includes the petition for removal,
should be in such a condition when the removal takes place as
to show jurisdiction in the court to which it goes. If it is not,
and the omission is not afterwards supplied, the suit must be
remanded.
The attempt to transfer this cause was made under that part
of sect. 2 of the act of 1875 which provides for the removal
of suits "arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States." In the language of Chief Justice Marshall, a case
"may truly be said to arise under the Constitution or a law of
the United States whenever its correct decision depends upon
the construction of either" (lohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 379);
or when "the title or right set up by the party may be defeated
by one construction of the Constitution or law of the United
States, or sustained by the opposite construction" (Osborne v.
Bankc of the United States, 9 id. 822).
The question of jurisdiction was submitted to the Circuit
,Court, upon the record sent from the State court. Upon tho

202

GOLD-WASHING & WATER CO. V. KEYES.

[Sup. (it.

pleadings alone, it is clear the defendants bad not brought
themselves within the statute. The complaint simply set forth
the ownership by Keyes of his property, and the acts of the defendants which, it was claimed, created a private nuisance.
No rights were asserted under the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and nothing was stated from which it could in
any manner be inferred that the defendants sought to justify the
acts complained of by reason of any such authority. The defendants, in their demurrer, which set forth specifically the grounds
relied upon, presented no question of Federal law. The validity
of the judgment of the Circuit Court, therefore, depends upon
the sufficiency of the facts set forth in the petition for removal.
For the purposes of the transfer of a cause, the petition for
removal, which the statute requires, performs the office of
pleading. Upon its statements, in connection with the other
parts of the record, the courts must act in declaring the law
upon the question it presents. It should, therefore, set forth
the essential facts, not otherwise appearing in the case, which
the law has made conditions precedent to the change of jurisdiction. If it fails in this, it is defective in substance, and must
be treated accordingly. Thus, in Insurance Company v. .Pec]hner (95 U. S. 183), we decided that a petition for removal, on
account of the citizenship of the parties, did not divest the
State court of its power to proceed'; because, when taken in
connection with the pleadings and process in the cause, it failed
to show such citizenship at the time of the commencement of
the action as would give the Circuit Court jurisdiction. And in
Amory v. Amory (id. 186) we held to the same effect in reference to a petition which failed to set forth the personal citizenship of the parties.
The office of pleading is to state facts, not conclusions of law.
It is the duty of the court to declare the conclusions, and of the
parties to state tile premises.
In this petition, the defendants set forth their ownership, by
title derived under the laws of the United States, of certain
valuable mines that can only be worked by the hydraulic process,
which necessarily requires the use of the channels of the river
and its tributaries in the manner complained of; and they
allege that they claim the right to this use under the provisions

Oct. 1877.]

GOLD-WASHING & WATER CO. v. KEYES.

203

of certain specified acts of Congress. They also allege that the
action arises under, and that its determination will necessarily
involve and require the construction of, the laws of the United
States specifically enumerated, as well as the pre-emption laws.
They state no facts to show the right they claim, or to enable
the court to see whether it necessarily depends upon the construction of the statutes.
Certainly, an answer or plea, containing only the statements
of the petition, would not be sufficient for the presentation of
a defence to the action under the provisions of the statutes
relied upon. The immunities of the statutes are, in effect,
conclusions of law from the existence of particular facts. Protection is not afforded to all under all circumstances. In pleading the statute, therefore, the facts must be stated which call it
into operation. The averment that it is in operation will not
be enough; for that is the precise question the court is called
upon to determine.
The statutes referred to contain many provisions; but the
particular provision relied upon is nowiere indicated. A cause
cannot be removed from a State court simply because, in the
progress of the litigation, it may become necessary to give a
construction to the Constitution or laws of the United States.
The decision of the case must depend upon that construction.
[he suit must, in part at least, arise out of a controversy between the parties in regard to the operation and effect of the
Constitution or laws upon the facts involved. That this was
the intention of Congress is apparent from sect. 5 of the act of
1875, which requires the Circuit Court to dismiss the cause, or
remand it to the State court, if it shall appear, "at any time
after such suit has been brought or removed thereto, that such
suit does not really or substantially involve a dispute or
controversy properly within the jurisdiction of said Circuit
Court."
Before, therefore, a circuit court can be required to retain a
cause under this jurisdiction, it must in some form appear upon
the record, by a statement of facts, "in legal and logical form,"
such as is required in good pleading (1 Chit. Pl. 213), that the
suit is one which "really and substantially involves a dispute
or controversy " as to a right which depends upon the con-

204

GOLD -WASHING & WATER CO. v. KEYES.

[Sup. Ct.

struction or effect of the Constitution, or some law or treaty of
the United States. If these facts sufficiently appear in the
pleadings, the petition for removal need not restate them; but,
if they do not, the omission must be supplied in some form,
either by the petition or otherwise. Under the application of
this rule, we think that the record in this case is insufficient,
and that the Circuit Court did not err in remanding the cause.
The act of 1875 has made some radical changes in the law
regulating removals. Important questions of practice are likely
to arise under it, which, until the statute has been longer in
operation, it will not be easy to decide in advance. For the
present, therefore, we think it best to confine ourselves to the
determination of the precise question presented in any particular case, and not to anticipate any that may arise in the future.
Under these circumstances, the present case is not to be coiisidered as conclusive upon any question except the one directly
involved and decided.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissenting.

The question intended to be raised in this case is, whether
4he grants made by the United States of placer mines, as such,
involve the right to discharge the refuse earth and gravel produced by working said mines, called "tailings," into the neighboring streams, in this case Bear River, inasmuch as the mines
cannot be worked except by means of a discharge of the streams
of water loaded with such refuse. This question depends upon
the construction of the titles given by the United States. When
the government determined to sell mining property as such,
and placer mines eo nomine, did it, or did it not, intend to confer
a right of working them in the only way in which they could
be worked? It seems to me that the question is clearly raised
by the allegations of the petition in this case; and the claim of
the right is clearly made. Whether it can be maintained as
against the occupants of inferior lands in the valleys which may
be injured thereby is another question, not now before us. I
think the parties were entitled to a removal of the cause.

