Oct. 1877.]

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

395

encouragement to speculative dealing or commercial trading.
This was the original idea of savings banks. Scratchley's
Treatise on Savings Banks, passim; Grant's Law of Bankers,
571, where, in defining savings banks, it is said the bank derives
no benefit whatever from any deposit, or the produce thereof.
Such are savings banks in England, under the statutes of 9 Geo.
IV., c. 92, sect. 2, and 26 & 27 Vict., c. 87. Very many such
exist in this country. Among the earliest are some in Viassachusetts, organized under a general law passed in 1834, which
contained a provision like the one in the act of Congress, that
the income or profit of all deposits shall be divided among the
depositors, with just deduction of reasonable expenses. They
exist also in New York, Pennsylvania, Maine, Connecticut, and
other States. Indeed, until recently, the priinary idea of a
savings bank has been, that it is an institution in the hands of
disinterested persons, the profits of which, after deducting the
necessary expenses of conducting the business, inure wholly to
the benefit of the depositors, in dividends, or in a reserved surplus
for their greater security. Such, very plainly, is the defendant
corporation in this case. The complainants have, therefore, no
pecumiary interest in it, and no right to the relief they ask.
Decree affirmed.

DOBBITS'S DISTlL=ERY v. UNITED STATES.
1. Where the owner of a distillery and other property connected therewith leased
them for the purpose of distilling, the acts or omissions of the lessee in carrying on the business of distilling while he was in possession, and with intent
to defraud the revenue, although they are unknown to the owner, subject
the distillery and such other property to forfeiture to the United States.
2. The declarations of the lessee, voluntarily made subsequent to his arrest, are
competent evidence against the owner to show the fraudulent intent of the
lessee, as are also books, letters, memoranda, and bills of lading found on
the premises in a room occupied by the latter.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

896

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Robert G. Ingersoll and Mr. A. L. Merriman for the
plaintiff in error, cited Wharton, Crim. Law, 325.
Mr. Assistant-Attorney-aeneral Smith, contra.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Judicial proceedings in rem, to enforce a forfeiture, cannot
in general be properly instituted until the property inculpated
is previously seized by the executive authority, as it is the preliminary seizure of the property that brings the same within
the reach of such legal process. The Schooner Anne, 9 Cranch,
289.
Due executive seizure was made in this case of the distillery.
and of the real and personal property used in connection with
the same; and the information in due form was subsequently
filed praying for process, and that the property seized should
be condemned by the definitive sentence of the court. Pursuant to the prayer of the information, the record shows that
process of monition was issued in due form, and that it was
duly served by the marshal. Sixteen causes of forfeiture were
alleged in the information, all of which, except the first three,
were abandoned at the trial.
Sufficient appears to show that the claimant was the owner
of the distillery and all the other property seized, and that he,
prior to the alleged causes of seizure and forfeiture, leased the
property to the party in possession of the same at the time the
alleged acts of forfeiture were perpetrated by the lessee and
occupant. Three of the alleged causes of forfeiture only need
be noticed, and they are in substance and effect as follows: 1. That the lessee, occupant, and operator of the distillery
neglected and refused to keep the books required by law, and
make the required entries in the same; that he made false
entries in the books kept in the distillery, and that he omitted
to enter in the same the facts required by law, with intent to
defraud the revenue, and to conceal from the revenue officers
facts and particulars required to be stated and entered in such
books, with like intent to defraud the revenue; and that he refused to produce the books kept in the distillery when thereto
requested by the revenue officers, contrary to the statute in
such case made and provided. 15 Stat. 132.

Oct. 1877.]

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

397

2. That the distillery, the distilled spirits, and distilling apparatus seized were owned by the lessee, occupant, and operator,
and some other person unknown, and were intended to be used by
the owners in the business of a distiller, in a manner to defraud
the United States, contrary to the act of Congress. Id. 142.
3. That the property seized was used by its owners to
defraud the United States of the tax to which the spirits distilled were by law subject, and that the United States had been
thereby defrauded of a part of such tax, in violation of law.
Id. 59.
Service was made; and the owner and lessor of the distillery
and other property seized appeared, and was permitted by leave
of court to make defence. His defence consists of an averment
that he has no knowledge or information upon the subject of
the information, and of a denial of each and every one of the
charges made against the property seized. Issue being joined,
the parties went to trial, and the verdict and decree of condemnation were in favor of the plaintiffs. Exceptions were duly
filed by -the claimant; and he sued out a writ of error, and
removed the cause into this court.
Matters set forth in the bill of exceptions which are not
assigned for error will not be re-examined.
Four errors are assigned, in substance and effect as follows:
1. That the court erred in admitting in evidence the statements of the lessee of the property, as contained in -the first
paragraph of the bill of exceptions. 2. That the court erred
in admitting the evidence set forth in that part of the bill of
exceptions denominated paragraphs 2 and 3. 3. That the
court erred in charging the jury that it was unnecessary for
them to find that the plaimant was implicated in the frauds of
the lessee and operator of the distillery, or that he had any
knowledge of his fraudulent acts or omissions. That if the
jury find that the claimant leased the property to the occupant
and operator for the purposes of a distillery, and that the lessee
committed the alleged frauds, the government is entitled to a
verdict, even though the jury should be of opinion that the
claimant was ignorant of the lessee's fraudulent acts and omissions. 4. That the court erred in including the real estate in
the decree of condemnation or forfeiture.

898

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Instructions not included in the assignment of errors were
given by the court to the jury, which deserve to be briefly
noticed before proceeding to examine the rulings and instruction of the court, which, it is insisted, present a sufficient cause
to reverse the judgment.
Requests for instructions having been presented by the claimant, and the same having been refused, the court, of its own
motion, instructed the jury to the effect, that if the evidence satisfied the jury that the lessee and occupant of the distillery made
sales of spirits produced by him which he omitted or neglected
to enter in his books, with intent to defraud the government,
or with intent to conceal from the officers the fact of such sales,
then he would be guilty, and it would be their duty to find for
the plaintiffs under the first article of the information; that
the mere absence of that party from the State or the country
was not of itself evidence upon which they could base a verdict, but if they found that he absconded and fled from justice
when detected and charged with the frauds alleged against him
in the case, that that fact might be considered by the jury, with
other evidence, as tending to prove his fraudulent intents
and guilt; that the information is a proceeding to condemn
and forfeit to the United States certain property, both real and
personal, for alleged offences against the revenue law; that the
property in question consists of a distillery, with its fixtures and
apparatus, and the ground within the enclosure on which the
distillery stands, together with the various articles of personal
property enumerated in the information, and that the present
defendant is the claimant of the property contesting the
grounds of forfeiture assigned by the government; that the
gist of the proceeding consists in the alleged fraudulent acts
and omissions of the lessee and occupant of the distillery, or
his agent and employ6s; and whether the charges against him
be positive acts done by him, or omissions to do what the law
requires of him, as a distiller, fraud is a necessary element in
the case, without which there can be no forfeiture.
Evidence of the statements and declarations of the lessee and
occupant of the distillery, voluntarily made while under arrest
and afterwards, were offered by the district attorney, as tending
to show his fraudulent intent in the doing and omitting to do

Oct. 1877.]

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

899

certain acts assigned in the information as causes of forfeiture;
and the ruling of the court in admitting the same, subject to
objection by the claimant, constitutes the first assignment of
error.
Throughout the trial the claimant appears to have assumed,
as the theory of the defence to the information, that he was the
accused party, and that he was on trial for a criminal offence
created and defined by an act of Congress. Instead of that, the
forfeiture claimed in the information is aimed against the distillery, and the real and personal property used in connection
with the same, including the real estate used to facilitate the
operation of distilling, and which is conducive to that end as
the means of ingress or egress, and all personal property of the
kind found there, together with the distilled spirits and stills
wherever found.
Nor is it necessary that the owner of the property should
have knowledge that the lessee and distiller was committing
fraud on the public revenue, in order that the information of
forfeiture should be maintained. If he knowingly suffers and
permits his land to be used as a site for a distillery, the law
places him on the same footing as if he were the distiller and
the owner of the lot where the distillery is located; and, if
fraud is shown in such a case, the land is forfeited, just as if
the distiller were the owner. Burroughs, Taxation, 67.
Oases arise, undoubtedly, where the judgment of forfeiture
necessarily carries with it, and as part of the sentence, a conviction and judgment against the person for the crime committed;
and in that state of the pleadings it is clear that the proceeding is one of a criminal character: but where the information,
as in this case, does not involve the personal conviction of the
wrong-doer for the offence charged, the remedy of forfeiture
claimed is plainly one of a civil nature; as the conviction
of the wrong-doer must be obtained, if at all, in another
and wholly independent proceeding. 1 Bish. Crim. Law (6th
ed.), sect. 835, note 1; United States v. Three Tons of Coal,
3 Biss. 871.
Forfeitures, in many cases of felony, did not attach at common law where the proceeding was in rem until the offender
was convicted, as the crown, Judge Story says, had no right to

400

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sap. Ct.

the goods and chattels of the felon, without producing the
record of his conviction; but that rule, as the same learned
magistrate says, was never applied to seizures and forfeitures
created by statute in rem, cognizable on the revenue side
of the exchequer court, for the reason that the thing in such
a case is primarily considered as the offender, or rather that
the offence is attached primarily to the thing, whether the
offence be malum prohibitum or mnalum in se ; and he adds,
that the same principles apply to proceedings in rem in the
admiralty. The Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 1.
Corresponding views were expressed by the same learned
judge in a case decided at a much later period, in which he
remarked that the act of Congress in question made no exception whatsoever, whether the alleged aggression was with or
without the co-operation of the owners. Nor, said the judge in
that case, is there any thing new in a provision of that sort. It
is not an uncommon course in the admiralty, acting under the
law of nations, to treat the vessel in which or by which, or by
the master or crew thereof, a wrong or offence has been committed, as the offender, without any regard whatsoever to the
personal misconduct or responsibility of the owner thereof, the
necessity of the case requiring it as the only adequate means
of suppressing the offence or wrong, or of insuring an indemnity to the injured party. United States v. Brig Malek Adhel,
2 How. 210.
Beyond all doubt, the act of Congress in question attaches
the offence to the distillery, and the real and personal property
connected with the same, the words of the act defining the
offence being, that if any such false entry shall be made in said
books, or any entry shall be omitted therefrom, with intent to
defraud or to conceal from the revenue officers any fact or particular required to be stated and entered in either of said books,
or to mislead the revenue officers with reference thereto; or if
any distiller shall omit or refuse to produce either of said
books, or shall cancel, obliterate, or destroy any part of either
of said books, or any entry therein, with intent to defraud, or
shall permit the same to be done, or such books or either of
them be not produced when required by any revenue officer, the distillery, distilling apparatus, and the lot or tract of land

Oct. 1877.]

DOBBINS'S

DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

401

on which it stands, and all personal property used in the business, shall be forfeited to the United States. 15 Stat. 133.
Nothing can be plainer in legal decision than the proposition
that the offence therein defined is attached primarily to the
distillery, and the real and personal property used in connection
with the same, without any regard whatsoever to the personal
misconduct or responsibility of the owner, beyond what necessarily arises from the fact that he leased the property to the
distiller, and suffered it to be occupied and used by the lessee
as a distillery.
Cases often arise where the property of the owner is forfeited
on account of the fraud, neglect, or misconduct of those
intrusted with its possession, care, and custody, even when the
owner is otherwise without fault; and Judge Story remarked,
in the case last cited, that the doctrine is familiarly applied to
cases of smuggling and other misconduct under the revenue
laws, as well as to other cases arising under the embargo and
non-intercourse acts of Congress.
Controversies of the kind have arisen in our judicial history;
and it has always been held in suci cases that the acts of the
master and crew bind the interest of the owner of the ship,
whether he be innocent or guilty, and that in sending the ship
to sea under their charge he impliedly submits to whatever the
law denounces as a forfeiture attached to the ship by means of
their unlawful or wanton misconduct.
Analogous views were expressed by Marshall, 0. J., at a
much earlier period. United States v. he Little Charles,
1 Brock. 347. Objection was there taken to the admissibility
of the report and manifest made by the master of the schooner
when she arrived at her port of destination, the schooner having been subsequently seized for an alleged violation of the
embargo laws. Two grounds were assigned in support of the
objection: 1. That the paper offered was not accompanied by
the entry. 2. That the declaration of the master, if admitted
in evidence, would affect the owner in a criminal case. Both
were overruled. Reference will only be made to the reasons
given for the second ruling.
Neither confessions nor admissions of the master, it was contended, were admissible to prove the guilt of the owner; and
VOL. VI.

26

402

DOBBINS'S DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

the Chief Justice added, that, if the case was such as was supposed in argument, the objection would be entitled to great
weight. But he remarked, that the proceeding was one against
the vessel, for an offence committed by the vessel, which is not
less an offence, and does not the less subject her to forfeiture
because it was committed without the authority and against
the will of the owner. It is held, said the Chief Justice,
that inanimate matter can commit no offence. But the ship,
as a body, is animated and put in action by the crew, who
are guided by the master. The vessel acts and speaks by
the master; she reports herself by the master. It is, therefore, not unreasonable that the vessel should be affected by
this report.
Apply that rule to the case before the court, and it follows
that the distillery, and the real and personal property used in
connection with the same, must be considered as affected by the
unlawful doings and omissions of the lessee and occupant of
the property as a distillery, subject to the rules and regulations
prescribed by Congress. United States v. Distillery, 2 Abb.
(U. S.) 192.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the claimant that the
declaration of the lessee and occupant of the distillery made
subsequent to his arrest were not competent evidence in the
case; but the court is entirely of a different opinion, as the
arrest of the lessee did not to any extent affect or change his
relations to the property or to his lessor. If his lease was a
subsisting one at the time of his arrest, his relations to the
property and the owner of the same continued unaffected by
that occurrence, nor is there any thing in the authority cited by
the claimant which, when properly understood, asserts any
different doctrine.
Statements made by the master of a ship as to what occurred
during the voyage, tending to inculpate the owner in the guilty
enterprise of the ship, are not admissible in evidence against
the owner, where he is charged with a crime, if the statements
were made subsequent to the time when he ceased to be master
and the common enterprise had come to an end; but the rule
has no application here, as the arrest of the lessee did not abrogate the lease, and, if the prosecution had failed, he might have

Oct. 1877.]

DOBBINs's DISTILLERY V. UNITED STATES.

403

-continued to operate the distillery in spite of the accusation
,contained in the information.
2. Certain private books, letters, and memoranda, found in
an open box in a room occupied by the lessee and operator of
the distillery as a private office, were also offered in evidence,
to the admissibility of which the claimant objected; but, inasmuch as it appears that they were the books, letters, and papers
of the person in whose office they were found, and that they
related in part to the business of the distillery, it requires no
argument to show that the objection of the claimant was without merit.
Other letters and bills of lading, found by the marshal in an
-open box in the room occupied by the same party as a private
office, were also introduced in evidence, subject to the claim-ant's objection, which, it appears, were addressed to the operator of the distillery, and that they tended to prove the shipment
by the distiller to the firm from which they came of large
quantities of high-wines, and that the firm rendered accounts
to the shipper of the sales as commission merchants.
Found as the papers were in the office of the distiller, it is
too clear for argument that they were properly admitted, unless
it be assumed that it was the claimant, and not the distillery and the property connected with the same, who was on'
trial.
3. Much discussion of the remaining error assigned will not
be required, as it presents the same question in principle as
that involved in the first assignment of error, which has already
been sufficiently considered.
None of the material facts are in dispute, nor were they to
any considerable extent at the trial. Beyond controversy, the
title of the premises and property was in the claimant; and it
is equally certain that he leased the same to the lessee for the
purposes of a distillery, and with the knowledge that the lessee
intended to use the premises to carry on that business, and
that he did use the same for that purpose.
Fraud is not imputed to the owner of the premises; but the
evidence and the verdict of the jury warrant the conclusion
that the frauds charged in the information were satisfactorily
proved, from which it follows that the decree of condemnation

MCPHERSON V. COX.

[Sup. Ct'.

is correct, if it be true, as heretofore explained, that it was the
property and not the claimant that was put to trial under the
pleadings; and we are also of the opinio that the theory
adopted by the court below, that, if the lessee of the premises
and the operator of the distillery committed the alleged frauds,
the government was entitled to a verdict, even though the jury
were of the opinion that the claimant was ignorant of the
fraudulent acts or omissions of the distiller.
Viewed in that light, the legal conclusion must be that the
unlawful acts of the distiller bind the owner of the property,
in respect to the management of the same, as much as if they
were committed by the owner himself. Power to that effect
the law vests in him by virtue of his lease; and, if he abuses his
trust, it is a matter to be settled between him and his lessor;
but the acts of violation as to the penal consequences to the
property are to be considered just the same as if they were the
acts of the owner. The Vrouw Tidith, 1 C. Rob. 150; United
Statesv. The Distilleryat Spring Valley, 11 Blatchf. 255; Same
v. The Reindeer, 2 Cliff. 57; Same v. Nineteen Hundred and
Sixty Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; Mitchell v. Torup, Parker,
227.
Examined in the light of these suggestions, as the case should
be, it is clear that there is no error in the record.
Judgment affirmed.

MCPHERSON v. Cox.
Bill in chancery, praying for the removal of the defendant as the trustee in a.
deed made to secure to the complainant the payment of a bond in the defendant's possession, and for the delivery of the bond. The defendant asserts a
lien on the bond for legal services rendered to the complainant. Held, 1. That
while a state of mutual ill-will or hostile feeling may justify a court in removing a trustee, in a case where he has a discretionary power over the rights of
the cestui que trust, and has duties to discharge which necessarily bring the parties into personal intercourse with each other, it is not sufficient cause where
no such intercourse is required and the duties are merely formal and ministerial, and no neglect of duty or misconduct is established against him. 2. A
contract to pay to an attorney-at-law for his services in suits con arning
land, if it bp recovered, a specific sum of money out of the proceeds, when it

