ARTHUR v. LAHEY.

[Sup. Ct.

A duty of sixty per cent is there imposed "on all goods,
wares, and merchandise, not herein otherwise provided for,
made of silk, or of which silk is the component material of
chief value, irrespective of the classification thereof for duty by
or under previous laws, or of their commercial designation."
It was, no doubt, within the power of Congress to abolish a
well-known rule of construction, as it did in the act of 1875;
but, until so abolished, it remained in force.
The case was well decided. The judgment must be affirmed;
and it is
So ordered.

ARTHUR v. LAE=Y.
1. The rules, that for the purpose of the tariff laws the commercial designation
of an article among traders and importers, when clearly established, fixes
its character, and that when Congress has designated an article by a specific
name, and imposed a duty upon it, general terms in a subsequent act or a
later part of the same act, although sufficiently broad to comprehend such
article, are not applicable to it, are not deprived of their ordinary application by the expression "not otherwise provided for," in the eighth section
of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 210).
2. The distinctions made by importers and traders between "silk laces" and
"thread laces" have been plainly recognized by Congress, and have run
through its acts for more than thirty years.
S. Under the nineteenth section of the act of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 190), as
amended by the sixth section of the act f July 14, 1862 (id. 560), thread
laces are eo nomine subject to a duty of thirty per cent ad valorem.
4. Smythe v. Fiske (23 Wall. 374) was not intended to overrule Homer v. The
Collector (1 id. 486), Reiche v. Synythe (13 id. 162), or the cases referred to in
them, nor was Mfovius v. Arthur (95 U. S. 144) understood to be in conflict
with it.
5. Those cases commented upon and explained.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In the years 1872 and 1873, Lahey & Co. imported from France
certain articles of silk manufacture, on which Arthur, the collector of the port of New York, imposed and collected a duty of
sixty per cent, under the eighth section of the act of June 30,
1864. 13 Stat. 210. Among the articles so imported was a
quantity of laces which the importers insisted were commer-

Oct. 1877.]

O ARTHUR V. LAHEY.

cially known as "thread laces," and liable to a duty of only
thirty per cent ad valorem, under the nineteenth section of the
act of March 2,1861 (12 id. 190), as amended by the sixth section of the act of July 14, 1862 (id. 550). Having paid, under
protest, the duty exacted, the importers brought this action for.
the excess beyond thirty per cent. The judge at the trial submitted to the jury the question, whether the articles were commercially known as "thread laces;" and the jury having found
that they were, there was a verdict for the plaintiffs. Judgment was rendered thereon, and the collector sued out a writ of
error.
Mft. Assistant-Attorney-General Smith, for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. _Edwards .Pierrepontand IUr. William Stanley, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
Referring to the case of Arthur v. MIorrison (supra, p. 108)
for a fuller explanation of the views of the court, we assume, at
this point, as established, the following propositions. A citation
and examination of some of the authorities are given hereafter.
1. The commercial designation of an article among traders
and importers, where such designation is clearly established,
fixes its character for the purpose of the tariff laws.
2. When Congress has designated an article by a specific
name, and by such name imposed a duty upon it, general terms
in a subsequent act, or in a later part of the same act, although
sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are not applicable
to it. Homer v. The Collector, 1 Wall. 486; .Reiche v. Smythe,
13 id. 162; Smythe v. Pisee, 23 id. 374; M~ovius v. Arthur,
95 U. S. 144.
The section of the act is fully set forth in the preceding case.
The government now contends that this section of the tariff
act of June, 1864, was intended to embrace every article made
of silk; that the concluding clause, laying a duty of fifty per
cent upon all manufactures of silk not otherwise provided for,
means not otherwise provided for in this section; and that
every article of which silk was the component of chief value
was intended to be covered by the section. Hence it is argued
that recourse cannot be had to preceding statutes to determine
VOT.. VT.

R

[
[Sup.
Ot.

ARTHUR V. LAHEY.

the duty payable upon lace made of silk, however it might be
commercially designated.
Under the authorities to which we have referred, this view
cannot be maintained. A specific designation eo nomine must
prevail over general words, and a commercial designation is the
standard by which the dutiable character of the article is fixed.
It was proved by the witnesses, and found by the jury, that,
although made of silk, the laces in question were commercially
known as thread laces. Whether an article is thread lace, it
was shown, depended upon the mode of its manufacture, -as
upon a cushion, from thread wound on bobbins moved by hand;
and that it was equally thread lace whether made of cotton or
silk, and whether white or black; and that there are also articles commercially known as silk laces, and articles commercially
known as cotton laces; and that thread lace made of linen had
been practically unknown for many years.
These distinctions are also well known and recognized in the
tariff laws of the country, of which the following is an illustration. In the years mentioned, acts were passed in which the
articles were named as here stated, with the different duties
upon each.
JuLY 30, 1846.
.25
per cent.
..............
Cotton laces .....
,,
.. 20
..............
Thread laces .....
9 Stat. 46, 47.
MACH 3, 1857.

..............
..............
11 id. 192.

Cotton laces .....
Thread laces .....

19 per cent.
,,
15

..

AnciH 2, 1861.
................
Silk laces ........
..............
Cotton laces .....
..............
Thread laces .....
...
...........
Cotton lace, colored ...
12 id. 186, 189, 190, 191.

80 per cent.
.20
.20
30

,,
,
,

AUG. 5, 1861.
Silk laces.

..

.........

.

id. 293.

.

.

40 per cent.

oat. 1877.]

ARTHUR V. LAHEY.

JULY 14, 1862.

Thread laces ..............
..............
Cotton laces .....
Id. 550, 556, sects. 6, 18.

Silk lace ......
Cotton lace ......

Jv-m 80, 1864.
................
...............
13 id. 209, 210.

80 per cent.
.25

.

,,

60 per cent.
85
35

REV. STAT.

............
Cotton lace, colored ......
...............
Cotton lace ......
...............
Thread lace .......
..............
Silk laces ......
Rev. Stat., pp. 464, 466, 472.

85 per cent.
,,
85
30
.60

,,

FEB. 8, 1875.
18 Stat. 807.
Congress here plainly recognizes the distinction made by
the importers and traders, and establishes one rate of duty for
silk laces and another for thread laces. The distinctions have
ran through the acts of Congress for more than thirty years;
and we do not see how the judge at the trial could have adopted
any other rule than the one complained of, to leave it to the
jury whether the article was thread lace, a known commercial
article, liable to duty as such, eo nomine.
The same reasoning will settle the question as to the application of the fifty per cent duty under the residuary clause of
the act of 1864.
The case of Smythe v. Fiske (supra) is relied upon by the
appellant. That case was not intended to overrule Homer v.
The Collectoror Reiche v. Smythe (supra), or the cases referred
to in those authorities, nor was JlIovius v. Arthur (supra) understood to be in conflict with it. Smythe v. Fiske simply decided
that silk ties, not being specifically enumerated in any of the
acts, either of 1864 or of preceding years, the rate fixed by the
act of 1864 was the correct rate for their assessment. To this
we now hold.

ARTHUR v. LAHEY.

[Sup. Ct.

It is not necessary to the correctness of that decision to hold
that the act of 1864 forbids a reference to any previous acts to
determine the duty upon articles mentioned in such acts eo
nomine, and not specifically named in the act of 1864.
That such reference is proper was held in Homer v. The Collector, supra. The tariff act of 1840 had imposed a duty of
forty per cent upon the articles enumerated in the schedule
referred to, among which were "almonds," by name. By the
first section of the tariff act of 1857, these duties were reduced
to thirty per cent. The second section made "fruits, green,
ripe, or dried," liable to a duty of eight per cent only. In
holding that almonds were liable to the duty of thirty per
cent, and were not embraced in the general terms of the second
section, Mr. Justice Nelson says: " The argument is, that almonds are dried fruit, and hence are provided for in the second
section of the act of 1857 ; and evidence was offered to show
that such was the commercial sense of the term. But this
inquiry had nothing to do with it, ... for certainly such proof
could not exist or be found, in the sense of commercial usage,
under any of the tariff acts, as duty had been imposed on almonds
eo nomine almost immemorially, at least since the duty act of
1804, and continued in the duty acts of 1816, 1832, 1842, 1846.
...Full effect can be given to the term ' fruit' ' dried,' without the very forced construction to bring within it the article
in question." The effect of both the acts was thus continued
in force.
The same principle of reference to the former statute was
sustained in 1eiche v. Smythe, supra. The case was this: The
twenty-third section of the act of March 2, 1861, provided that
" animals living, of all kinds; birds, singing and others; land
and water fowls," - shall be exempt from duty.
The act of May, 1866, provided that a duty of twenty per
cent ad valorem should be imposed "on all horses, mules, cattle,
sheep, hogs, and other live animals." After the passage of this
act, and by virtue of it, the collector exacted the duty of twenty
per cent upon a lot of canary birds, which was paid under protest, and the question was as to its legality.
In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr. Justice Davis said:
The act of 1866 is comprehensive enough to include birds; and

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR v. LAHEY.

if there had been no previous legislation, there would be justification for the position that Congress did not intend to narrow
the meaning of the words. The act of 1861, he says, intended
birds to be admitted free of duty, and the acts of 1866 must be
limited to animals ejusdem generis with cattle, sheep, and horses.
The two acts, he says, are in pari materia, both remaining in
force, - that of 1861 admitting birds free of duty, and that of
1866 imposing the duty on horses and like animals, notwithstanding the general terms of the latter. The birds were, therefore, held to be exempt from duty.
In 3Movius v. Arthur (supra), the same principle of construing
both acts in pan materia,to remain of force, prevailed. The
act of 1861 (12 Stat. 192) imposed a duty of thirty per cent on
"japanned leather" eo nomine. By the act of 1862 (12 id. 556),
an additional duty of five per cent was imposed upon the same
article by name. The act of 1872 (17 id. 230) enacted that, in
lieu of existing duties, there should be imposed on " skins
dressed and finished" ninety per cent only of the duties by law
imposed, "it being the intent of this section to reduce the duties ten per cent on all leather not herein otherwise provided
for." Although this act contained the words, "not herein
otherwise provided for," -that is, not provided for in this act
was held that the two statutes must be
or this section, -it
construed as both to be in force, and that "japanned leather,"
being eo rnomine described in the former act, was not taken out
of it by the general words of the later act, and that the larger
duties of the acts of 1861 and 1862 were legally chargeable.
It will be observed, that, in two other sections, besides the
eighth, of the act of 1864, manufactures of silk are referred to,
indicating that the entire subject was not intended to be disposed of in that section. Thus, in sect. 5, p. 208, a duty of ten
per cent is imposed on "lastings of mohair, silk, twist," &c.
Again, in the same section, p. 207, a duty of fifty per cent ad
valorem is imposed "on flannels composed in part of silk." See
Stewart v. Maxwell (16 How. 150, 160) and Penington v. Core
(2 Cranch, 33), on the point that the revenue acts are one
system, and are to be read together.
By the twenty-second section of the act of 1864, it is enacted,
"that all acts and parts of acts repugnant to the provisions of

ARTHUR v. UNKART.

[Sup. Ot.

this act be, and the same are hereby, repealed; . . . and pro-

vided further, that the duties upon all goods, wares, and merchandise imported from foreign countries, not provided for in
this act, shall be and remain as they were, according to existing
laws prior to the 29th of April, 1864." 13 Stat. 216.
This may well be construed to retain duties on articles specifically enumerated in former acts, different from those imposed by
the act of 1864, but not specifically named therein, and although
the same class of subjects may be referred to in the act of 1864.
The judgment must be affirmed, upon the grounds following:
1. The commercial designation of an article among traders
and importers, when clearly established, fixes its character for
the purpose of the tariff laws.
2. When Congress has designated an article by its specific
name, and imposed a duty upon it by such name, general terms
in a subsequent act, or in a later part of the same act, although
sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are not applicable
to it.
3. That the expression, "not otherwise provided for," in the
eighth section of the act of 1864, does not deprive these rules
of their ordinary application.
Judgment affirmed.

ARTHUR V. UNKART.
1. In 1873, certain gloves, commerc; illy known as "silk plaited gloves," or "patent
gloves," made on frames and manufactured in part of silk and in part of
cotton, cotton being the component part of chief value, were imported at
New York, upon which the collector imposed a duty of sixty per cent ad
valerein, under the eighth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 210).
Held, that the articles did not come within the general terms of that section, because, 1st, they were not, by reason of their component materials,
silk gloves; 2d, they were commercially known only as "plaited gloves,"
or "patent gloves;" and, 3d, they did not fall within the concluding clause,
silk not being the component part of chief value.
2. Not being included in the act of 1864, the articles were dutiable under the
twenty-second section of the act of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 191), and the
thirteenth section of the act of July 14, 1862 (id. 556), where they are
enumerated as gloves made on frames.
3. In an action against a collector of customs to recover the amount of duties
on imports alleged to have been exacted in violation of law, t",e burden of
proof is upon the plaintiff.

