RAILROAD CO. v. VANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

RAILROAD CONPANY v. VANCE.
A railroad corporation of Indiana, by a written contract of lease with a railroad
corporation of Illinois, acquired the right and assumed the duty of managing
and carrying on the business of the main line and a branch road of the latter
company. The lease was confirmed by an act of the legislature of Illinois,
which declared that said lessee should be a railroad corporation in the latter
State, and possess as large powers as were possessed by the lessor, and such
other powers as are usual to railroad corporations: The State board for the
equalization of taxes in Illinois made an assessment on the capital stock and
franchises of the lessor corporation, over and above its tangible property,
for the roads which passed from its control by virtue of the lease, and then
assigned to the several counties so much of the assessment as was in the
same proportion to the whole as the length of track within their respective
limits bore to the entire length of the leased roads; the taxes due upon
such assessment being charged to and to be collected from the company
which, with the consent of the State, was entitled to have, and did have,
exclusive control and management of such roads. Held, that the mode
adopted by the State board was in substantial conformity to the laws of
fllinois.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

11r. Joseph B. lc-Donald and Hr. B. P. Banney for the
appellant.
))'. James K. Bdsall, Attorney-General of Illinois, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the filing of the bill in this case by the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company, suing as a corporation organized under the laws of Indiana, against sundry county
tax-collectors in the State of Illinois, a temporary injunction
was granted, restraining the defendants from levying on the
property, or taking any steps to collect taxes upon the capital
stock, of the complainant, for the years 1873, 1874, and 1875,
1inder or by virtue of any warrants in their hands for that
purpose.
The defendants, denying that there had been any assessment
upon the capital stock of the complainant, insisted that the
taxes in question were due upon assessments, rightfully made
by the State board of equalization of Illinois upon the capital

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO. v. VANCE.

stock and franchises of an Illinois corporation, the St. Louis,
Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company, over and above its
tangible property, for so much of its main line and the Alton
branch thereof as were leased to, and operated in Illinois by,
the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, to whom,
defendants 6laimed, the taxes in question were, therefore, properly charged.
The cause, by agreement of parties, was submitted upon the
pleadings and exhibits filed; and, upon final hearing, a decree
was rendered dissolving the injunction and dismissing the bill.
From that decree this appeal is prosecuted.
The essential facts in the case are these: The Constitution
of Illinois requires the General Assembly of that State to provide such revenue as may be needful by levying a tax by valuation, so that every person and corporation shall pay a tax in
proportion to the value of his, her, or its property, - such valuation to be ascertained by some person or persons to be elected
or appointed in such manner as the General Assembly shall
direct. Persons or corporations owning or using franchises and
privileges are to be taxed in such manner as the General Assembly shall from time to time direct, the tax, however, to be uniform as to the class upon which it operates.
In pursuance of the Constitution, the General Assembly, in
the year 1872, passed a general revenue law providing for the
assessment of property, and prescribing the mode for the collection of taxes. It contained specific directions for the assessment of the different kinds of property owned by railroad
companies, their visible or tangible property to be assessed
under the heads of "railroad track," "rolling-stock," &c. In
reference to their capital stock, the statute provided that the
"capital stock of all companies and associations" (other than
banking associations organized under the general laws of the
State) "now or hereafter created under the laws of this State
shall be so valued by the State board of equalization, as to
ascertain and determine respectively the fair cash value of such
capital stock, including the franchises, over and above the
assessed value of the tangible property of such company or
association," - that value to be ascertained under such 'rules
and principles as the board might deem equitable and just.-

RAILROAD

CO. V. VANCE.

[Sup. Ot.

The rule adopted by the State board was this: To the
market or fair cash value of the shares of capital stock add
the market or fair cash value of the debt of the corporation,
(excluding that created for current expenses), and from this
amount deduct the aggregate amount of the equalized or assessed valuation, as ascertained by the board, of all the tangible
property of the corporation; the amount remaining to be taken
as the fair cash value of the capital stock, including the franchise, which the board is required to assess against such
corporation.
At the annual meetings of the State board held in each of
the years 1873, 1874, and 1875, for the purpose of examining
the abstracts of property assessed for taxation in the several
counties, as returned to the auditor of State, and for the purpose, also, of equalizing assessments, the question arose as to
the mode in which the capital stock of the St. Louis, Alton,
and Terre Haute Railroad Company should be assessed for
taxation.
The difficulties which attended an intelligent discharge of
that duty will be comprehended by a statement of the relations
of that corporation to the complainant.
On the 11th of September, 1867, the complainant, by a written
contract of lease with the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute
Railroad Company, acquired the right and assumed the duty of
managing and carrying on, for the term of ninety-nine years,
commencing June 1, 1867, the business of the principal or
main line of the latter, one hundred and eighty-nine miles in
length, extending from Terre Haute, Ind., to East St. Louis,
Ill., and also of the Alton branch, four miles in length, subject
to certain prescribed terms and conditions.
The tenth article of the lease is as follows :"The said party of the first part (the complainant), its successors
and assigns, shall and will, at all times during the term aforesaid,
pay or cause to be paid any and all taxes, assessments, and imposts of whatever kind which shall or may at any time during such
term be charged, levied, assessed, or imposed upon the said main line
of said railroad and the said Alton branch thereof, or upon either
or any part of either of the said railroads or their appurtenances,
or upon any business or transactions done upon them or either of

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO. v. VANCE.

them, or upon any income arising therefirom, or upon any property
whatsoever, the use of which during said term is hereby agreed to
be furnished to the party of the first part, or which may be charged
aigainst or imposed upon the said party of the second part (the St.
Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company), its successors
or assigns, for or on account of its or their ownership of said rail,
roads, or either or any part of either thereof, or of such property or
any part thereof: Provided,however, that nothing in this contract
contained shall be so construed as to render the party of the first
part in any way liable for the tax specifically upon the income of
the holders of the bonds or stocks of the party of the second part."
Under this lease the complainant took possession of all the
property connected with or essential to the business of the
principal line and the Alton branch of the lessor.
Some doubt having been expressed as to the validity of the
lease under the laws of Illinois, an act of the General Assembly
of that State, approved March 11, 1869, directs that the lease
"be and stand confirmed according to the terms" thereof; and
the second section provides : "The said lessees, their associates, successors, and assigns, shall
be a railroad corporation in this State, under the said style of 'The
Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company,' and shall possess
the same or as large powers as are possessed by said lessor corporation, and such other powers as are usual to railroad corporations.
Said Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company may, and are
hereby authorized to, extend said line of road from any point on
the same between the cities of Pana and Litchfield, on said road,
or from either of said points westward to the Mississippi River
opposite Louisiana, or any point below, not exceeding fifteen (15)
miles, in the State of Missouri, with a branch thereof to the city of
Quincy, in the State of Illinois, and the same to connect with the
railroad bridge over said river at said city of Quincy.'
At its annual meetings, in 1873, 1874, and 1875, the State
board made assessments upon the capital stock and franchises
of the various railroad companies of the State over and above
their tangible property respectively. Having ascertained the
fair cash taxable value of the capital stock, including the franchise of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company, without any reference to the lease made by the latter, it

RAILROAD

CO. V. VANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

fixed the sums of $2,918,184, $1,125,139, and $1,004,416 as
the proportion of such valuation which should be distributed
for the years 1873, 1874, and 1875, respectively, to the counties on the line of the leased railroads, assigning to each county,
in conformity to the rule prescribed by the statute, such proportion of those annual assessments as the length of line in
such county bore to the entire length of the leased railroads
in the State. The assessments thus distributed to the several
counties through which the leased railroads passed were charged
to the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company. The
balance of the assessment upon the capital stock and franchise
was distributed to the counties upon the lines which the St.
Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company operated, and
were charged directly against it.
While the officers of State deny that the assessments were
upon the capital stock of the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company, they evidently intend that the warrants based upon
those assessments shall be levied upon such of the leased property as by the laws of Illinois can be seized for the payment of
taxes against corporations created under the laws of that State.
Whether the assessments made by the State board, and the
intended levy by the county collectors of the warrants in their
hands, are in accordance with the laws of Illinois, are the fundamental questions in this case.
In support of the negative of these propositions, the counsel
for the complainant insist that the Indianapolis and St. Louis
Railroad Company is a corporation created by the laws of Indiana, with stock subscribed and held under the authority of
that State, and with an organization there and not elsewhere;
that neither before nor after the passage of the act of March
11, 1869, did the stockholders or officers of the Indianapolis and
St. Louis Railroad Company organize, subscribe for stock, elect
officers, or do any other act to become a corporation under its
provisions; that no capital stock of the corporation referred to
in that act was ever subscribed by the lessee therein referred
to, and that the complainant owns no capital stock except that
owned by it as a corporation existing under the laws of Indiana;
that the act of March 11, 1869, construed in reference to its
objects intended to be attained, and the constitutional powers

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. v. VANCE.

of the General Assembly of Illinois, did not make the IndianapoUs and St. Louis Railroad Company a corporation of that State,
but amounts only to a license to an Indiana corporation to exert
its corporate powers in Illinois, by holding and operating a line
of leased railroads within her limits; that the State board had
no authority to assess the capital stock and franchise of an
Indiana corporation; and that the property managed and controlled by the latter, whether acquired prior to or held under
the lease of 1867, could not be seized to pay taxes due upon any
assessment of the capital stock of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre
Haute Railroad Company.
These propositions, presenting, it must be conceded, questions of some difficulty, will be noticed in the progress of this
opinion.
There can be no doubt that the Illinois revenue statute of
1872 was intended to meet the provisions of the State Constitution, which required such legislation as would subject to taxation, according to its value, every kind of property, whether
owned by individuals or corporations. It was not supposed that
the constitutional duty imposed upon the General Assembly
would be discharged by taxing simply the tangible property of
railroad companies. Hence a tax was imposed upon their capital stock, including the franchise, over and above their tangible
property. "Capital stock," within the meaning of the Illinois
statute, does not mean shares of stock, but "the aggregate capital of the company;" which includes "the value of the right to
use this tangible property in a special manner, for purposes of
gain." We so held in State Railroad Tax Cases (92 U. S. 575),
where the provisions of this revenue statute were critically
examined. It is to be observed in this connection that the
State board of equalization was not authorized to assess the
capital stock of companies or associations managing property or
engaging in business in Illinois, unless they were created under
the laws of that State. Such seems to be the settled construction of that statute by the Supreme Court of Illinois. In Testern
Union Telegraph Company v. Leib (76 Ill. 172) this language is
held: "We are unable to find any authority in the act for assessing the capital stock of companies or associations doing business
in the State, but incorporated under the laws of another State.

RAILROAD

00. V. VANCE.

LSup. Or.

The care manifested by the legislature, whenever any allusion is
made to the assessment of capital stock, to limit it to corporations created by or under the laws of the State, is so clear and
positive, that no doubt can exist as to the purpose intended."
When the lease of 1867 was executed, the capital stock, including the franchise, of the lessor corporation was taxable
over and above its tangible property, assessed under the head of
railroad track, &c. But, upon the execution of that lease, and
its confirmation by the State, that corporation no longer enjoyed
the right to use the leased property in a special manner for the
purposes of gain. That right for a fixed period, and with the
declared consent of the State, passed to the lessee corporation,
and became thereafter a part of its aggregate capital, not reached
by taxation upon its tangible property operated in Illinois,
but assessable only under the head of capital stock and franchise. The taxable value of the capital stock and franchise of
the lessor was diminished by the amount which the State board
should ascertain to be the value of that right. By the confirmation of the lease, according to its terms, -among which was
the obligation of the lessee to pay all taxes, assessments, and
imposts, of whatever kind, charged against or imposed upon the
lessor for or on account of its ownership of the leased lines, the State was estopped from collecting, as against the lessor,
any taxes assessed upon that right. This, in our opinion, is a
fair construction of the lease, and the act of March 11, 1869.
The question whether the State can require any other corporation to respond to the taxation, which, but for the lease and
the act of March 11, 1869, would have been assessable against
and collectible from the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute
Railroad Company, depends for its solution altogether upon the
construction to be given to that act.
Upon the theory of complainant's counsel, the State of Illinois cannot make the leased property liable to these assessments
upon capital stock and franchise under any form of assessment,
since, as they claim, that property is managed and operated by
a corporation deriving its existence from, and holding its stock
and maintaining its organization under, the laws of Indiana,
and not under the laws of Illinois.
In this view we cannot concur. That act was something

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. v. VANCE.

more than a mere license to an Indiana corporation to exert
its corporate powers and enjoy its corporate rights and privileges in another State. Such would undoubtedly have been
the case had the act closed with the first section, as it would
have done, had the General Assembly intended nothing more
than to confer upon the corporation of another State authority
to extend its operations by carrying on railroad business in
Illinois. We cannot thus restrict the effect of the act, without
disregarding wholly the ordinary meaning of the plain words of
its second section, which declares that the lessees, their associates, successors, and assigns, shall be a railroad corporation
in the State of Illinois. It does more: it gives the style by
which that corporation shall be known. Still further, it does
not authorize the complainant corporation to exercise, in Illinois, the corporate powers granted by the laws of Indiana;
but confers, by affirmative language, upon the corporation,
which it declares shall be a railroad corporation in Illinois, "the
same or as large powers as are possessed" by an Illinois corporation, the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company, and, in addition, such other powers as are usual to railroad
corporations. The Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad Company, as lessee of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad
Company, was thus created, by apt words, a corporation in
Illinois. The fact that it bears the same name as that given to
the company incorporated by Indiana cannot change the fact
that it is a distinct corporation, having a separate existence
derived from the legislation of another State. After the passage of the act of March 11, 1869, the property. described i
the lease of 1867 became, at least for purposes of taxation in
Illinois, that of the corporation created by that act as a railroad
corporation in that State.
But it may be suggested that the utmost which can be
claimed for the act is, that, without creating a new corporation
in Illinois, it only made the complainant, as an Indiana corporation, a corporation of the State of Illinois. It was clearly
competent for the General Assembly to have done this, as held in
Railroad Company v. Harris(12 Wall. 65), where the court said:
"Nor do we see any reason why one State may not make a corporation of another Statb, as there organized and conducted. a

RAILROAD CO. v. VANCE.

[-Sup. or,

corporation of its own, quo ad any property within its territorial
jurisdiction." But we do not see how this view gives any support to the position of the complainant. For, had the act, after
confirming the lease of 1867, declared in terms that the lessee
corporation, as organized and conducted in Indiana, should be
deemed a corporation of Illinois, we should have felt bound to
hold that, as to the property obtained by and operated under
the lease within that State, it was, in the sense of the Illinois
revenue statute of 1872, a corporation "created under the laws"
of that State, subject to taxation upon its capital stock, including its franchise, so far as such stock and franchise were fairly
represented by the leased property.
Railroad Company v. Harris (supra) is relied upon by counsel, as sustaining their construction of the act of 1869; but
there is no substantial analogy between that case and this.
The Virginia act did not purport to make the Maryland corporation a corporation of Virginia, nor did it contain any
language from which could be inferred a purpose to create
thereby a new and distinct corporation in Virginia. On the
contrary, the Illinois act of 1869 declares, in express terms,
that certain parties shall be a railroad corporation in that State.
under a designated name, with authority to exercise, not the
powers which had been granted by the State of Indiana to
another corporation of the same name, created under the laws
of that State, but the same powers which were possessed by
a corporation theretofore created under the laws of Illinois. We
are unable to perceive any conflict between the views expressed
in that case and those announced in this opinion.
Some stress is laid upon the fact that there was no formal
subscription to the capital stock, or any formal organization of
the corporation created by the act of March 11, 1869. Notwithstanding the absence of such subscription and organization,
we are of opinion that the State board had the right, for the
purposes of taxation, to regard the corporation authorized by
that act to exercise the powers of the lessor corporation, as a
corporation created under the laws of Illinois.
There is still another objection earnestly urged against this
construction of the act of March 11, 1869. It is said that, being
a special act, and containing nothing to show that the corpora-

Ot. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. v. VANCE.

tion therein named might not have been organized under the
general laws of Illinois, the act cannot be construed as creating
a new corporation, without bringing it into conflict with the
following clause of the Illinois Constitution of 1848, then in
force; viz., "Corporations not possessing banking powers or
privileges may be formed under general laws, but shall not be
created by special acts, except for municipal purposes, and in
cases where, in the judgment of the General Assembly, the
objects of the corporation cannot be attained under general
]aws."
The argument is, that a special act creating a corporation is
in violation of that constitutional provision, unless it appears
affirmatively from the act, or from the recorded proceedings of
the General Assembly, that the latter was of opinion that the
objects of the corporation could not be attained under the
general laws. In the absence of any decision upon this question
by the Supreme Court of Illinois, we should give weight to this
argument. But this precise point was made in the case of
Johnson v. Joliet & Chicago Railroad Co., 23 111. 207. In
that case, it appears that a special act creating a railroad company, passed in 1855, contained no statement of the inability of
the General Assembly to accomplish the objects of the incorporation under the general law. The court said: "It is too late
now to make this objection, since, by the action of the General
Assembly under this clause, special acts have been so long the
order of the day, and the ruling passion of every legislature
which has been convened under the Constitution, until their
acts of this description fill a huge and misshapen volume, and
important and valuable rights claimed under them. The clause
has been wholly disregarded, and it would now produce farspread ruin to declare such acts unconstitutional and void. It
is now safer, and more just to all parties, to declare that it must
be understood that, in the opinion of the General Assembly, at
the time of passing the special act, its objects could not be
attained under the general law; and this without any recital
by way of preamble."
That decision furnishes an answer to the objection under
consideration.
We come now to the examination of the mode in which the

RAILROAD

CO. V. VANCE.

[Sup. Ct.

assessments were made. Looking into the proceedings of the
State board, so far as they have been laid before us, we meet
with some difficulty in understanding the precise theory upon
which the assessments of 1873, 1874, and 1875 were made. But
for the lease made in 1867, the way of the board would have
been free from all embarrassment. The assessment, in that
event, would have been upon the capital stock, including the
franchise, of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad
Company, over and above any tangible property it owned and
operated. But, as heretofore shown, after the confirmation of
the lease, the capital stock and franchise of that corporation were
diminished in value to whatever extent their taxable value was
represented by the leased lines of railroad. Technically, the
assessment under the head of capital stock and franchise should
have been upon the capital stock and franchise of the corporation created by the act of March 11, 1869. But that corporation had no defined amount of capital stock separate from
that of the Indiana corporation of the same name. The State
board, therefore, made an assessment upon the capital stock of
the lessor corporation, for that portion of the lines of railroad
which passed from its control in virtue of the lease of 1867, and
then distributed such assessment among the various counties on
the lines of the leased railroads, in the proportion that the extent
of track in the respective counties bore to the whole length of
the leased lines in the State; the taxes due upon such assessment being charged to and to be collected from the Indianapolis
and St. Louis Railroad Company, which, with the consent of
the State of Illinois, as expressed in the act of March 11, 1869,
was entitled to have, and did have, exclusive control and management of such leased lines.
The mode thus adopted by the State board was, as we think,
in substantial conformity to the laws of Illinois, and affords
the complainant no just ground of objection.
The complainant sues as a corporation, created by the laws
of Indiana, upon the ground that the assessment was upon its
capital stock, and that the purpose of the county collectors was
to seize its property. But the State officers deny that any
assessment was made, or intended to be made, upon its capital
stock. Clearly, the county collectors have no right to levy the

Oct. 1877.]

THE "LADY

PIKE."

warrants in their hands upon any property which belongs to the
Indiana corporation, as distinguished from the Illinois corporation of the same name. But they have the right, for the reasons
heretofore given, to subject to the payment of the taxes in
question the property which the corporation, created by the
act of 1869, is operating and managing in that State, as lessee
of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad Company.
The assessment made by the State board is, in every just sense,
an assessment upon the capital stock and franchise of an Illinois
corporation; to wit, the Indianapolis and St. Louis Railroad
Company, lessee under and by authority of the act of March
11, 1869, of the St. Louis, Alton, and Terre Haute Railroad
Company.
We perceive no error in the decree to the prejudice of the
complainant.

Decree affirmed.
M . JusTICE. FELD and MR.JUSTICE HUNT did not hear
the argument in this case, nor participate in the -decision

THE "LADY PIKE."
1. This court will consider, on a second appeal, only the proceedings subsequent
to itsmandate. The re-examination cannot extend to any thing decided on
the first appeal.
2. Where a stipulation to abide and answer the decree of a district court in a
case in admiralty is, with the consent of the parties, substituted for the
stipulation previously filed by a claimant, it thereby becomes the only
stipulation for value, and does not become inoperative upon an appeal to
the Circuit Court. The appeal carries up the whole fund.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This is an appeal from the decree of the court below in the
execution of the mandate of this court in The Lady Pike (21
Wall. 1), where the former decree was reversed, and the cause
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with the
opinion.

