572

INSURANCE CO. v. EGGLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

ury and get his money. The presumption under such cireum
stances is that payment would have been made upon proper
demand.
This record, however, does show that the claim was allowed
July 3, 1874, while the suit was not commenced until June 25,
1875; and the trial below evidently proceeded upon the theory
that no such objection to a recovery existed. In the opinion, it
is said that the " comptroller did not pass the claim, and the
allowance made by the commissioner has never been paid."
So, too, in other cases where this is referred to, it is described
as one in which "the comptroller refused to pass the account,
and interposed objections which, if final, would thwart the
action of the commissioner, and prevent the execution of the
provisions of the regulations." Boughton's Case, 12 Ct. Cl.
396. And in the argument here, ol behalf of the appellee, it
is said - that the Assistant-Attorney-General admitted on the
trial in the court below the fact of the refusal of the United
States to pay the allowance made by the commissioner in
favor of the claimant," and "that it was on the theory of
the case that the defendants had refused to make payment of
the allowance that the court entertained jurisdiction."
Under
these circumstances, we think it clear that this point was conceded below, and that it ought not to be considered here.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE COmPANY v. EGGLESTON.
1, Any agreement, declaration, or course of action on the part of an insurance
company, which leads a party insured honestly to believe that by conforming thereto a forfeiture of his policy will not be incurred, followed by due
conformity on his part, will estop the company from insisting upon the
forfeiture, though it might be claimed under the express letter of the contract.
2 A policy of insurance, issued by a New York company upon the life of A., who
resided at Columbus, Miss., stipulated, that if the premiums were not paid
at the appointed dates the company shoul not be liable, that all receipts
for them were to be signed by the president and actuary, and that agents
were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge contracts, or Waive forfeitures. After the policy was issued, the company discontinued its agency at

Oct 1877.]

INSURANCE

CO. v. EGGLESTON.

Columbus, and from time to time, as the premiums became due, notified .
by mail where and to whom to pay them. No notice as to the premium due
Nov. 11, 1871, having been received by him, it was ascertained, by inquiry
of the agents at Savannah, Ga., and Vicksburg, Miss., to whom payment
bad formerly been made, that the sub-agent at Macon, Miss., held the
receipt. Payment was tendered him Dec. 80, but he refused to accept it
unless a certificate of A.'s health was furnished. A. died Jan. 5. 1872. '1lie
company, when sued, set up the forfeiture of the policy by reason of the
non-payment of the premium on the day it was due. Held, that A., in view
of the company's dealings with him, had reasonable cause to expect, and
rely on receiving, notice where and to whom to pay the premium, and that
the company was estopped from setting up that the policy was forfeited by
the non-payment, on Nov. 11, of the premium then due.
3. Insurance Compay v. Daris (95 U. S. 425), and New I'* Lffe Instrance Compuny v. Stutlam et al. (93 id. 24), commented on and distinguished from this
case.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi.
This was an action in the District Court of the United States
for the Northern District of Mississippi, having the same
powers as a Circuit Court, on a policy of life insurance, issued
by the plaintiff in error, the defendant below, a New York
corporation doing business in the city of New York, on the
11th of November, 1868, for the sum of $5,000, on the life of
Edward C. Eggleston, a resident of the State of Mississippi,
for the benefit of his children, Louisa and Thomas, and in consideration of an annual premium of $306, payable after the first
premium semi-annually, one-half on the 11th of November, and
one-half on the 11th of May, in each year. The policy contained
the usual condition that if the premiums were not paid on or
before the respective days named, together with any interest
that might be due thereon, the company should not be liable.
The following clause was added: "All receipts for premiums
are to be signed by the president or actuary. Agents for the
company are not authorized to make, alter, or discharge contracts, or waive forfeitures." Eggleston died on the 5th of
January, 1872.
The defence set up on the trial was that the policy was
forfeited by the failure of the assured to pay the last instalment of premium, which fell due on the 11th of November, 1871.
The cause was tried by a jury, who found for the plaintiffs;
and the only question raised by the bill of exceptions ard

574

INSURANCE CO. V. EGGLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

brought here for review, is, whether the judge properly left
to the jury the question of fact which was made by the plaintiffs below in answer to the alleged forfeiture. The case presented on the trial, as shown by the bill of exceptions, is as
follows: The plaintiffs proved that the policy of insurance mentioned
in the declaration was delivered, and the first premium received
thereon, by one Stephens, a local agent of the defendant, in
Columbus, Miss., and that said Eggleston, upon whose life said
policy was issued, then and up to his death resided in the
immediate vicinity; that soon after the issue of said policy the
agency of said Stephens was revoked, and no other agent
appointed at that place; that said Eggleston was notified by
defendant to pay the next premium falling due to Johnston
& Co., its agent at Savannah, Ga., and that he was also notified to pay the subsequent premiums to B. G. Humphreys &
Co., the defendant's agents at Vicksburg, Miss., except the
one falling due Nov. 11, 1871, all the other premiums falling
due before the death of said Eggleston having been paid. It
was also testified by the sons of said Eggleston, and by Goodwin, the cashier of the bank through which the other payments
had been made, that if any notice was given by the defendant
to said Eggleston, to whom and where the said premium due
the eleventh day of November, 1871, should be made, that they
did not know it; and that said Goodwin had the money to pay
the said premium, which would have been paid had the notice
been given; and after said premium became due and payable,
said Goodwin, for said Eggleston, telegraphed to Johnston &
Co., at Savannah, Ga., inquiring to whom payment should be
made; who replied, to telegraph to B. G. Humphreys & Co.,
at Vicksburg; that B. G. Humphreys & Co. replied, to make
payment to Baskerville & Yates, sub-agents at Macon, Miss.,
who held the payment receipt. On Dec. 30, 1871, a friend of
said Eggleston tendered payment of the premium to Baskerville & Yates, which was refused unless a certificate of health
was furnished; said Eggleston was then sick, and died on the
5th of January, 1872. One Williams, a clerk of Baskerville &
Yates in their insurance business, and a witness for the defendant, testified that on the 1st of November, 1871, he wailed a

Oct,. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. EGGLESTON.

notice, post-paid, to said Eggleston, addressed to him at Columbus, Miss., to make payment to Baskerville & Yates, agents at
Macon, Miss., and that they held the proper premium receipt.
Macon, Miss., it was found, is thirty miles from Columbus by
railroad.
Upon this evidence the judge charged the jury as follows.
"The non-payment of the premium is admitted; and, if nothing more appears from the evidence, the plaintiffs -will not be
entitled to recover. To avoid the defence, it is insisted by the
plaintiffs that the non-payment was caused by the defendants
not having given to the said Eggleston notice of the place
where payment was required, and, therefore, the fault of the
company, and not that of Eggleston or the plaintiffs. The
onus of proving the cause for non-payment is on the plaintiffs.
[If you shall believe from the evidence that the payments of
the premiums had, before that time, been made to such agents
as the company had designated from time to time, and of
which and to where said Eggleston was given notice by the
defendant, and that no such notice was given to said Eggleston
before the time the non-paid premium fell due, and that as
soon as he did thereafter receive such notice he did tender to
the designated agent the premium due, and that such failure to
pay was caused by the want of such notice, then the policy
was not forfeited, and the plaintiffs will be entitled to recover
the amount of the policy, with six per cent interest, from sixty
days after the company was notified of the death of Eggleston,
less the amount of any unpaid premiums, with like interest, up
to the death of said Eggleston.] If you shall believe from the
evidence that the notices before given were by letter through
the mail, and that the agent of the company authorized to'
receive payments of the premium mailed to said Eggleston, at
his post-office, such notice within such time as, by due course
of mail, he would have received it, and within a reasonable
time for Eggleston to make payment, then Eggleston will be
held to have received such notice, and the plaintiffs will notbe entitled to recover. The onus or burden of proof of such
notice having been given is on the defendant." Th6 defendant excepted to so much of said charge as is included in
brackets.

INSURANCE Co. v. EGGLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Mr. Matt. Hf. Carpenter for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff in error was under no obligation to keep a
local agent in the vicinity of the residence of the assured, and
give him notice thereof. The premiums on his policy were
payable at the domicile of the company. Insurance Company
v. Davis, 95 U. S. 425.
If the defendants in error sought to excuse the payment
when due, on the ground that it was the custom or usage of
the company to notify the holders of policies where and to
whom to pay, they should have proved on the trial that such
was known to be the general usage and custom of the company, or a particular usage of universal notoriety at the place
where the insurance was effected. Adams v. Otterback, 15
How. 539.
The case does not show that the assured intended to pay
the premium falling due Nov. 11, 1871, or that he made any
effort, prior to its maturity, to ascertain to what agent he
should make payment. On the contrary, the presumption is,
that, after his death became imminent, his friends took the
matter in hand, and attempted to revive the policy for the
benefit of his children. The agent was, therefore, independently
of the express words of the policy, justified, both in law and in
fair dealing, in refusing to waive the forfeiture.
The fact that the agents of the company had notified the
assured to whom to make payment of particular premiums
which became due prior to Nov. 11, 1871, was not such an act
on the part of the company as amounted to a permission to him
not to make payment until notified.
The agent could not waive payment until notice was given
by him to whom and where to pay it. On the contrary, the
policy expressly prohibited him from so doing.
This provision cannot be set aside upon any act of the agent
and the assured. It is as much a part of the contract as any
other. Chase v. Hamilton Insurance Co., 20 N. Y. 52; Buff'uni
v. Payette Mutual Insurance Co., 3 Allen (Mass.), 360; Ne~w
York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al., 93 U. S. 31.
2lir. Philip Phillips, contra.
There was no error in the charge of the court below. The
obligation to give the assured notice where and when to pay

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. V. EGGLESTON.

premiums, can aise from the actions of the company, as well
as from express words.
The principle that no one shall be permitted to deny that he
intended the natural consequences of his acts, when he has
induced others to rely on them, is as applicable to an insurance
company as to an individual.
The doctrine of waiver, as asserted against such a company,
to prevent the strict enforcement of conditions contained in
its policy, is only another form for the doctrine of estoppel.
Insurance Company v. Wolff, 95 U. S. 326. .
That the assured acted in good faith, and was ready and
anxious to continue the policy, is abundantly established by
the evidence. He had the strongest inducement to do this,
from the precarious condition of his health. His anxiety is
shown by his prompt and repeated efforts to ascertain the
agent to whom the payment was to be made.
The policy does not stipulate where the premiums were to
be paid. The law of Mississippi, made for the convenience
and security of its citizens, requires insurance companies to
have agents in the State, and defines their duties and responsibilities. Rev. Code, 1857, p. 303, sects. 57-59.
AIR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We have recently, in the case of Insurance Company v.
Norton (supra, p. 234), shown that forfeitures are not favored in
the law; and that courts are always prompt to seize hold of any
circumstances that indicate an election to waive a -forfeiture, or
an agreement to do so on which the party has relied and acted.
Any agreement, declaration, or course of action, on the part of
an insurance company, which leads a party insured honestly to
believe that by conforming thereto a forfeiture of his policy
will not be incurred, followed by due conformity on his part,
will and ought to estop the company from insisting upon the
forfeiture, though it might be claimed under the express letter
of the contract.
The company is thereby estopped from
enforcing the forfeiture. The represeltations, declarations, or
acts of an agent, contrary to the terms of the policy, of course
will not be sufficient, unless sanctioned by the company itself.

VoL. VI.

37

INSURANCE

o. v.

EGGLESTON.

[Sup Ot.

Insurance Company v. J)Iowry, supra, p. 544. But where the
latter has, by its course of action, ratified such declarations,
representations, or acts, the case is very different.
In the present case, it appeared that the company had discontinued its agency at the place of residence of the insured
soon after the policy was issued; and had given him notice by
mail, from time to time, as the premium instalments became
due, where and to whom to pay them, - sometimes at Savannah, several hundred miles, and sometimes at Vicksburg, a
hundred and fifty miles, from his residence. Such notice, it
would seem, had never been omitted prior to the maturity of
the last instalment. The effect of the judge's charge was, that
if this was the fact, and if no such notice had been given on
that occasion, and the failure to pay the premium was solely
due to the want of such notice, it being ready, and being tendered as soon as notice was given, no forfeiture was incurred.
We think the charge was correct, under the circumstances of
this case. The insured had good reason to expect and to rely
on receiving notice to whom and where he should pay that
instalment. It had always been given before; the office of the
company was a thousand miles away; and they had always
directed him to pay to an agent, but to different agents at different times.
Although, as we held in the case of Insurance Company v.
-Davis (95 U. S. 425), the legal effect of a policy, when nothing
appears to the contrary, may be that the premium is payable
at the domicile of the company; yet it cannot be expected or
understood by the parties that the policy is, in ordinary circumstances, to be forfeited for a failure to tender the premium
at such domicile, when the insured resides in a distant State,
and has been in the habit, under the company's own direction,
to pay to an agent there, and has received no notice that the
contrary will be required of him. He would have a just right
to say that he had been misled.
Let us look at the matter as it stands. The business of life
insurance is in the hands of a few large companies, who are
generally located in out large commercial cities. Take a company located, like the plaintiff in error, in New York, for
example. It solicits business in every State of the Union.

Oct. 1877.1

INSURANCE

0.

V. EGGLESTON.

where it is represented by its agents, who issue policies and
receive premiums. Could such a company get one risk -"here
it now gets ten, if it was expected or understood that it was
not to have local agents accessible to the parties insured,
to whom premiums could be paid, instead of having to pay
them at the home office in New York? The universal practice
is otherwise. Local agents are employed. The business could
not be conducted on its present basis without them. Now, suppose the local agent is removed, or ceases to act, without the
knowledge of the policy-holders, and their premiums become
due, and they go to the local office to pay them, and find no
agent to receive them; are these policies to be forfeited?
Would the plaintiffs in error, or any other company of good
standing, have the courage to say so ? We think not. And
why not? Simply because the policy-holders would have the
right to rely on the general understanding produced by"the
previous course of business pursued by the company itself, that
payment could be made to a local agent, and that the company
would have such an agent at hand, or reasonably accessible.
We do not say that this course of business would alter the
written contract, or would amount to a new contract relieving
the parties from their obligation to pay the premium to the
company, if they can find no agent to pay to. That obligation
remains. But we are dealing with the question of forfeiture
for not paying at the very day; and, in reference to that question, it is a good argument in the mouths of the insured to
say, "Your course of business led us to believe that we might
pay our premiums at home, and estops you from exacting the
penalty of forfeiture without giving us reasonable notice to pay
elsewhere." The course of business would not prevent the
company, if it saw fit, from discontinuing all its agencies, and
requiring the payment of premiums at its counter in New
York. But, without giving reasonable notice of such a change,
it could not insist upon a forfeiture of the policies for want of
prompt payment caused by their failure to give such notice.
In 1he case of Insurance Company v. Davis, cited above, the
agent's powers were discontinued by the occurrence of the war,
of which all persons had notice; and the law of non-intercourse
bptween belligerents prevented any payment at all; and the

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

policy became forfeited and ended without any fault attributable to either of the parties. That case, therefore, was entirely
different from the present; and it was in consequence of such
forfeiture in the absence of fault that we held, in the case of
New York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al. (93 U. S. 24),
that the insured was entitled to recover the equitable value of

his policy.
In the present case, it seems to us that the charge of the
judge was in substantial conformity to the principles we have
laid down. The insured, residing in the State of Mississippi,
had always dealt with agents of the company, located either in
his own State or within some accessible distance. Ile had
originally taken his policy from, and had paid his first pi emium
to, such an agent; and the company had always, until the last
premium became due, given him notice what agent to pay to.
This was necessary, because there was no permanent agent in
his vicinity. The judge rightly held, that, under these circumstances, he had reasonable cause to rely on having such notice.
The company itself did not expect him to pay at the home
office: it had sent a receipt to an agent located within thirty
miles of his residence; but he had no knowledge of this fact,
at least, such was the finding of the jury from the evidence.
We think there was no error in the charge, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court must be
Affirmed.

BISSELL v. HEY-WARD.
1. A. made his will, appointing C. his executor, and devising his real property in
South Carolina to B. for life; and, after the determination of that estate, to
C., in trust, to support certain contingent remainders in fee. A. afterwards
entered into a contract to sell the property to )., who entered into possession, and paid a part of the purchase-money. A. (lied without receiving
the balance or making a conveyance, and C. duly qualified as his executor.
Held, that a bill by B. against C. and D., to compel the specific performance
of the contract, would lie.
A tender of payment must, to stop interest or costs, be kept good. It ceases
to have that effect when the money is used by the debtor for any other
purpose.

