BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

[Sup. Ct.

policy became forfeited and ended without any fault attributable to either of the parties. That case, therefore, was entirely
different from the present; and it was in consequence of such
forfeiture in the absence of fault that we held, in the case of
New York Life Insurance Co. v. Statham et al. (93 U. S. 24),
that the insured was entitled to recover the equitable value of

his policy.
In the present case, it seems to us that the charge of the
judge was in substantial conformity to the principles we have
laid down. The insured, residing in the State of Mississippi,
had always dealt with agents of the company, located either in
his own State or within some accessible distance. Ile had
originally taken his policy from, and had paid his first pi emium
to, such an agent; and the company had always, until the last
premium became due, given him notice what agent to pay to.
This was necessary, because there was no permanent agent in
his vicinity. The judge rightly held, that, under these circumstances, he had reasonable cause to rely on having such notice.
The company itself did not expect him to pay at the home
office: it had sent a receipt to an agent located within thirty
miles of his residence; but he had no knowledge of this fact,
at least, such was the finding of the jury from the evidence.
We think there was no error in the charge, and the judgment
of the Circuit Court must be
Affirmed.

BISSELL v. HEY-WARD.
1. A. made his will, appointing C. his executor, and devising his real property in
South Carolina to B. for life; and, after the determination of that estate, to
C., in trust, to support certain contingent remainders in fee. A. afterwards
entered into a contract to sell the property to )., who entered into possession, and paid a part of the purchase-money. A. (lied without receiving
the balance or making a conveyance, and C. duly qualified as his executor.
Held, that a bill by B. against C. and D., to compel the specific performance
of the contract, would lie.
A tender of payment must, to stop interest or costs, be kept good. It ceases
to have that effect when the money is used by the debtor for any other
purpose.

Oct. 1877.]

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

3. A decree, or a judgment, when rendered upon a contract payable in Confed.
erate treasury notes, should be for a sum equal to the value of those notes,
not in the gold coin, but in the legal-tender currency, of the United Statep
at the time when and the place where they were payable.

4. Such notes can in no proper sense be regarded as commodities merely
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
William C. Heyward, who was seised in fee of certain lands
in the State of South Carolina, made. his last will and testament, bearing date Jan. 20, 1852. So much thereof as relates
to them is as follows:"I give to my brother, Henry Heyward, of New York" (here is
a description of the lands), "for and during the term of his natural
life, and, after the determination of that estate, I give the same to
my friend, William 0. Bee, and his heirs, to prevent the contingent
remainders hereinafter limited from being barred; in trust, nevertheless, during the lifetime of my said brother, to apply the income
thereof to his use and benefit; and, from and after his decease, I
give the use of the same estate, real and personal, to his eldest son,
Henry Heyward, Jr., if then living, until he attains the age of
twenty-one years; and if he should survive his father, and attain
the age of twenty-one years, to him and his heirs for ever: but in
case the said Henry Heyward, Jr., should not survive his father, and
attain the age of twenty-one years, then I give the whole of the
said estate, real and personal, after the decease of my brother,
Henry lleyward, for the use of the person who may thereafter, from
time to time, sustain the character of heir male of the body of my said
brother, Henry Heyward, as such term was used in the common law
berbre the abolition of the rights of primogeniture, until such peson
shall attain the age of twenty-one years, or the expiration of twentyone years from the death of my said brother, whichever may first
happen; and, after the happening of either of those events, to the
then heir male of the body of my brother, absolutely and for ever."
On the eighteenth day of June, 1863, William C. Heyward
contracted to sell, for $120,000, said lands, to John B. Bissell;
who took immediate possession of them, which he has ever since
retained. On July 31, following, he paid $20,000 of the purchase-money. During that year, and before the completion of
the purchase, Heyward died, and said Bee, appointed the executor of his will, duly qualified as such. Owing to the civil war

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

(Sup. Ct.

and other causes, matters remained unaltered in their main
features until March, 1870, when said Henry Heyward, a citizen
of New York, filed his bill against said Bissell and said Bee,
citizens of South Carolina, to compel the specific performance,
by Bissell, of his agreement to purchase. The answer of Bissell
admits the agreement and his possession of the property, and
his payment of $20,000; and alleges that he was provided with
the means of paying the balance of the purchase-money; that
neither said William C. Heyward, nor, since his death, said
Bee, tendered him a conveyance; and that he was willing to
pay when he should receive a valid conveyance; that he sold
sixty-three bales of cotton, for cash in Confederate notes, and
on Feb. 11, 1864, tendered the said balance, in said notes, to
the executor, who declined to receive them, on the ground that
lie could not make a good title. Bee, in his answer, admitted
the tender to him by Bissell, and his refusal to accept it, on the
ground that he was advised that he could neither make a title
nor safely accept payment in Confederate currency. It was
admitted, on the hearing below, that said money was tendered
at that date, in such currency; that the parties through whom a
good title could be made lived in New York; and that, after
Bee's refusal to accept the notes tendered, Bissell used them
for other purposes.
It does not appear by the pleadings, the evidence, or the
agreed statenent of facts on file, whether Henry Heyward, Jr.,
who was living when the bill was filed, and had then attained
the age of twenty-one years, is now living. There is neither
allegation nor proof of his death.
The court decreed that Bissell should perform his contract of
purchase, and pay, in United States currency, a sum equal to
the value of $100,000 in Confederate currency on June 18,
1863, the day of sale, with interest thereon until Feb. 11, 1864;
from and after which day he should pay interest only on such a
sum as was the value of $100,000 on said 18th of June, less its
value on said 11th of February; said values and interest to be
ascertained by the clerk of the court to whom the cause was
referred, as master, to state and report the same: that upon
Bissell's making the payment as stated and reported, that the
clerk, "as master to said William C. Bee, executor of William

Oct. 1877.]

BISSELL v. HEYWARD.

0. Heyward," convey the premises in fee-simple; but that, upon
his failure so to pay, the master should sell the property, at
public auction, for cash.
Said Henry Heyward died before the execution of the decree.
On Nov. 23, 1874, Zefa Heyward, his wife, Zefita Heyward,
his daughter, and Frank Heyward, his son, filed their bill of
revivor, reciting the original bill, the proceedings thereunder,
the reference to the master, the death of said Henry, leaving a last will and testament, which was duly proved before
the surrogate of the county of New York, - their appointment
to execute the same, and that said Zefa alone took upon herself the execution thereof, and qualified accordingly, and praying that the bill might be revived. This bill was duly served
no answer was made, and an order of revivor was enterei
accordingly.
The master subsequently reported that the balance found by
him to be due upon the contract was $28,353.50; and that, in
reaching that result, he compared the value of the Confederate
currency, in which the contract was payable, with United States
paper currency at the date of the contract and of the tender.
He found that, on the 18th of June, 1863, $1 in United
States currency was worth $5.20 in Confederate currency; and
that on the 14th of February, 1864, the value was 81 to $13.01.
The court confirmed the report, Dec. 15, 1874; and decreed
that the interlocutory decree previously rendered be carried
into execution. Bissell thereupon appealed to this court, Bea
declining to join in the appeal.
Mr. William A. Maury for the appellant.
When a vendor of real estate dies before he has received the
purchase-money and made a conveyance, the bill against the
vendee to enforce his specific performance of the contract musf
be filed by the personal representative of the vendor. Dart,
Vendors, 468; Story, Eq. Pl., sects. 160-177.
lieyward, the original complainant, was but a life-tenant.
The two contingencies on which the remainder to his son
depended had not both happened; for, although the son had
attained his majority, the other condition, of his surviving his
father, had not happened at the filing of the bill. Nor had the
executor then any estate. His remainder, as trustee to preserve

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

[Sup. Ot.

the contingent remainders, was itself still contingent; for Henry
}Ieyward's life-estate was not spent, and if his son should stirvive his father, and so his estate become vested, there would no
longer be any call for a trustee to preserve remainders. It comes
to this, then, that the fee had descended to the testator's heirat-law. 1 Fearne, pp. 353-355. The bill does not aver who is that
heir, so that (according to the case thereby made) the fee is
not represented. Again, the will, by the testator's sale to Bissell, was in equity revoked; and, although it has still operation at law, those taking, as devisees, the title of the estate sold,
would be held by equity as trustees for the purchaser. It is
apparent, therefore, that Henry Heyward had no beneficial
interest whatever in or touching the lands when he filed the
bill ; and his representatives, in whose name the suit was revived, had no interest. His will is not in evidence, and it is
impossible to say what was the character of that instrument.
Besides, the bill of revivor avers that Zefa Heyward alone qualified as executrix.
Henry Heyward being now dead, his son, Henry Heyward, Ji.,
according to the bill, was of age, - is, if alive, seised of
the fee; but he is not a party to this suit. It would seem, then,
that the bill is fatally defective as to parties.
There is a total failure by the original complainait to show
a performance of the contract by the tender of a conveyance by
the representatives of the vendor. Prothro v. Smith, 6 Rich.
Swho,

(S. C.) Eq. 324.
The value of United States currency between the dates when
$20,000 was paid and the balance of the purchase-money tendered was variable and fluctuating; and gold coin was the only
proper standard by which to measure the value of Confederate
fiotes, in which the contract was solvable. They were, as declared in Planters' Bank v. Union Bank (16 Wall. 502), "a
commodity, not money;" and the tender of them, with no other
objection on the part of the creditor than that he could neither
safely accept them nor make a good title, discharged the debt.
2 Pars. Contr., pp. 163-165. At the utmost, Bissell, after making
the tender, was only liable to the estate as a bailee of the notes,
and the whole function of the court was limited to determining
what that liability was.

Oct. 1877.]

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

M'. Edward M Crady, contra.
It is settled in South Carolina, that, where, after a devise,
land has been sold by the testator, the devisee takes the estate
in trust for the purchaser, and is the proper party to convey.
Rose v. Drayton, 4 Rich. (S. C.) Eq. 260. In the present case,
there was no devise in fee directly to any one. There'was a
devise for life, and the appointment of a trustee to preserve the
contingent remainders limited after the determination of that
estate. Under these circumstances, the safest mode of conveying was through the instrumentality of a court of equity. This
bill was therefore filed, as Bissell then held and still holds possession; claiming the lands under his contract, and only raising
the question as to what was due thereon. His taking possession thereunder must be regarded as a v aiver of objection to
the title of William 0. Heyward. No question is, however,
made as to that title; and Henry Heyward's allegation in the
original bill, that his feoffment, with livery of seisin, and a
release by Bee, would have absolutely transferred that title;
and that he offered so to transfer it to Bissell is not denied' in
the answer. There has been, therefore, no default whatever
on the part of the vendor or his representatives.
The notes of the Confederate States must be considered in
the same light as if they haa been issued by a foreign government temporarily occupying a part of the territory of the United
States, and their value was properly scaled to that of the legaltender notes of the United States. Dooleyj v. Smith, 13 Wall.
604; Thorington v. Smith, 8 id. 1.
The tender in February, 1864, relied on by the appellant
to discharge the debt, was not kept good after that date; and
did not, therefore, even discharge interest and costs. Giles v.
Bart, 3 Salk. 343; Sweatland v. Squires, 2 id. 623.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
It is objected that there is a fatal defect -of parties complainant. The point of this objection is that Henry Heyward
and William C. Bee were not able together to make a title'
that ought to be satisfactory to Bissell, and hence that the
decree should be reversed.

BISSE L V. HEYWARD.

[Sup. Ct,

The Will of William C. Heyward took effect only upon his
death. Until the occurrence of that event, the devisees therein
named had no more title to or interest in the property in
question than if their names had not been mentioned in the
will. If he had consummated his contract with Bissell by executing a deed of the property, this would have worked an
absolute revocation of the devise as to this property. The execution of the contract (with the partial payment thereon) was
a transfer in equity of the title of the land to Bissell; leaving
in the representatives of William C. Heyward simply a naked
title as trustee for Bissell, to be conveyed upon performance on
his part. By the terms of the will, this legal title was vested
in William C. Bee, the trustee to preserve remainders.
Henry Heyward was tenant for life, and as such offered to
convey to Bissell, "by feoffment, and livery of seisin, and to
procure the release of right of entry and action by William C.
Bee, the remainder-man for preserving contingent remainders;"
and he avers in his bill that this would have made a good and
effectual conveyance of the legal estate.
Bee held the legal title under the will, and his title to the
legal estate continued in force as long as the remainders were
contingent; and there is nothing. in any part of the record
showing that such was not the condition of the title when
Heyward offered to convey, and that it is not so at the present
time.
Chancellor Kent says (Com., vol. iv. p. 256), "The trustees are entitled to a right of entry in case of a wrongful
alienation by the tenant for life, or whenever his estate for life
determines in his lifetime by any other means. The trustees
are under the cognizance of a court of equity, and it will control their acts, and punish them for a breach of trust; and if
the feoffmnent be made by the purchaser with notice of the
trust, as was the fact in C]tudlezqh's Case, a court of chancery
will hold the lands still subject to the former trust. But this
interference of equity is regulated by the circumstances and
justice of the particular case. The court may, in its discretion,
forbear to interfere; or it may and will allow, or even compel.
the trustees to join in a sale to destroy the contingent remainder, if it should appear that such a measure would answer the

Oct. 1877.]

BISSELL V. HEYWARD.

uses originally intended by the settlement." To this he cites
many authorities.
We think this objection is not well taken.
Was there error in the amount decreed to be paid?
One of the statements of fact in the case sets forth that Bissell tendered the money; and fails to state that he deposited it,
or in any manner set it apart or appropriated it for the purpose of the tender. The other states that he used the money
he had thus provided. The legal effect is the same. To have
the effect of stopping interest or costs, a tender must be kept
good; and it ceases to have that effect when the money is used
by the debtor for other purposes. Boosvelt v. The Bull's
Head Banle, 45 Barb. (N. Y.) 579; Giles v. Hart, 3 Salk. 343;
Sweatland v. Squire, 2 id. 623.
The defendant insists that the value of the Confederate
notes should be reduced to gold or sterling exchange, which
would still farther depreciate their value.
This objection cannot be sustained. By the laws of the
United States, all contracts between individuals could then be
lawfully discharged in the legal-tender notes of the United
States. These notes, and not gold or sterling exchange, were
the standard of value to which other currencies are to be
reduced to ascertain their value. Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall.
457; Thorington v. Smith, 8 id. 1; -Dooley v. Smith, 13 id.
604; Rev. Stat. So. Car., p. 285.
Confederate notes, although without the authority of the
United States, and, indeed, in hostility to it, formed the only
currency of South Carolina at the date of the transactions in
question. United States currency was unknown, except when
found upon the person of the soldiers of the United States
taken and held as prisoners.
Confederate notes can in no proper sense be treated as commodities merely. The contract in question was made payable
in terms in dollars; but both parties agree in writing that Confederate-note dollars were intended. The $20,000 was paid
in Confederate notes; and, when the defendant tendered his
$100,000, he tendered it in Confederate notes as dollars, and
he obtained them by selling sixty-three bales of cotton for
Confederate dollars. Stewart v. Salamon, 94 U. S.434.
Decree affirmed.

