Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR

v. GODDARD.

a manufacture'of cotton which is entitled to the reduction
provided for by act of 1872.
The ruling in this respect was erroneous, and the judgment
must be reversed; and it is
So ordered

ARTHUR

v.

GODDARD.

The plaintiffs below entered an importation of goods upon the following Invoice :Bought ....
...................
.
Discount for cash on gross amount, two per cent, 8,766.60 .....

Fr's

8,670.25
175.30

Fr's
Terms cash. Ifnotpaid, interestto be added at the ratevf six per cent.

8,494.95

As cash bad not been paid, the two per cent discount was disallowed by the
appraisers. The collector thereupon fxed the value of the goods as of the
invoice price at 8,670.25 francs, and exacted duty thereon, although the actual
market value of the goods in the country of exportation was 8,494.95 francs.

Hdd,that the latter sum was also the invoice value, and that the duty on
the two per cent was improperly exacted.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1874, Goddard & Brother imported certain goods, of which
the invoice, after giving the details of weight, &c., was as follows, viz.: Bought .......
................
Fr's 8,670.25
Discount for cash on gross amount, two per cent, 8,766.60 175.30
Terms cash.
per cent.

Fr's 8,494.95
If not paid, interest to be added at the rate of six

The importers entered the goods at the net price stated in
the invoice, - francs, 8,494.95, - and declared on the entry
as follows: "Cash not paid on these goods, but are passed to
our account, and are subject to interest at six per cent per
annum.
The case finds, as matter of fact, that 8,494.95 francs was the
actual market value of the goods at the time of their exportation, in the principal market of the country from which they
vOL. V1.

10

ARTHUR v. GODDARD.

[Sup. Ct.

were exported, and that the purchase by the importers was at
the figures named.
The appraisers disallowed the discount of two per cent, on
the ground that the importers stated in the entry that the cash
was not paid. The collector thereupon fixed the value of the
goods at 8,670.25 francs; and the duty charged upon that valuation having been paid under protest, the importers brought suit
to recover the excess.
Judgment was rendered in their favor, and the collector
brought the case here.
Mr. Assistant-Attorney- General Smith for the plaintiff in
error.
Mr. William G. Choate, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUN'T delivered the opinion of the court.
The appraisers seem to have acted under the provision of the
seventh section of the act of March 3, 1865 (13 Stat. 494),
which declares "that the duty shall not be assessed upon any
amount less than the invoice or entered value."
The actual value has been stated at 8,494.95 francs, and such
was also the "invoice value." The entered or invoiced value
spoken of in the statute means the value as it is stated in or
upon the invoice. That value was, francs, 8,494.95. The value
means the cash value. The price at thirty days' credit might
be different, and the difference would probably be greatly increased by a credit of six months or a year, but the value or
cost would still be the same. The difference would be chargeable to the credit, and not to a difference in the value of the
goods. That the price was to bear interest at six per cent until
paid for, or at sixty per cent, had no influence upon the question of their value. We think it quite clear that the net price
is stated in this invoice to be the value of the goods; viz., francs,
8,494.95.
Ballard et al. v. Thomas (19 How. 382), is cited as an authority to the contrary. We do not so consider it. The judge at the
trial of that case charged the jury as follows: "It being admit,
ted that the duties were levied on the prices at which the iron
was charged in the invoice, they are lawfully exacted; . ..
that the entry in the invoice, that the plaintiff would be enti-

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR V. GODDARD.

tled to a deduction for prompt payment, could not affect the
amount of duty chargeable."
In delivering the opinion of affirmance in this court, Mr.
Justice Nelson said: "In respect to the deduction from the
price on account of prompt payment, we think the fact does
not vary or affect the price of the article as stated in the invoice. It relates simply to the mode of payment, which may,
if observed, operate as a satisfaction of the price to be paid, by
the acceptance of a less sum." This is quite different from a
case where the court is asked to fix the duties upon a different
value from that stated in the invoice.
It is said, again, that the valuation of the appraisers is conelusive.
The statute already cited provides that it shall be the duty
of the collector to cause the actual market value or wholesale
price of the goods in the principal market of the country from
which they are exported to be appraised, "and such appraised
value shall be considered the value upon which the duty shall
be assessed." 18 Stat. 498.
In this case, the appraisers did not profess to appraise or ascertain the market value of the goods. They simply gave a
construction to the invoice; they decided its legal effect to be
that 8,670.25 francs is there declared to be the market value of
the goods. They held as a legal proposition, that, in fixing the
value, the discount of two per cent should not be allowed; and,
as a result from this, that 8,670.25 francs, and not 8,494.95
francs, was the value.
Such is the effect of their return; and the view is strengthened, if strength is needed, by the statement of the case, that
-8,494.95 francs was, in fact, the market value of the goods.
Judgment affirmed

