Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

211

the petition, whether the plaintiff had notice of the election
proceedings and of the character of the proposed bridge or not
before purchasing the coupons on which the suit is brought.
This conclusion requires, and our judgment is, that the first
and third questions should be answered in the negative, and
that the second question is immaterial; and, consequently, that
the judgment of the Circuit Court should be affirmed.
Judgment afflrmed.

UNTED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.
A county subscribed for stock of a railroad corporation, and issued bonds in
payment therefor, pursuant to a law which authorized a levy of a special tax
to pay them, "not to exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed
value of taxable property for each year," but contained no provision that only
the fund so derived should be applied to their payment. Held, that the bonds
are debts of the county as fully as any other of its liabilities, and that for any
balance remaining due on account of principal or interest after the application

thereto of the proceeds of such tax the holders of them are entitled to payment
out of the general funds of the county.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
On the fourth day of January, 1876, the United States, on
the relation of William A. Johnston, filed in the court below a
petition for a mandamus against the County Court of Clark
County, Missouri, and the justices thereof.
The case exhibited by the pleadings is this: On the sixth
day of June, 1874, said Johnston recovered a judgment in said
Circuit Court against that county for $8,606.64 and costs. The
judgment was for unpaid instalments of interest on bonds of the
county, each for $500, issued on the first day of June, 1871, by
order of the county court, in execution of a power conferred
by the charter of the Missouri & Mississippi Railroad Company.
The whole issue under the order was $200,000, and the judgment was for interest upon one-fourth of the amount. An execution having been issued upon the judgment, and a return
made that no property could be found, he applied for a mandamus requiring the county court and the justices thereof to direct

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

the clerk of the county to draw a warrant on the county treasurer for the balance of the judgment remaining unpaid, so that
he might be enabled, on its presentation, to have it paid in its
order out of the county treasury. His right to such a warrant,
and the duty of the county court to direct it to be drawn, are
claimed to be founded upon the general statutes of the State.
The act respecting the powers and duties of county courts
(Wagner, Stat. 414, sect. 28) enacts as follows: " Each county
court shall have power to audit, adjust, and settle all accounts
to which the county shall be a party; to order the payment
out of the county treasury of any sum of money found due
by the county;" and the thirty-first section provides that,
"when the court shall ascertain any sum of money to be due
from the county, they shall order their clerk to issue a warrant
therefor," drawn upon the county treasurer, prescribing the
form. The thirty-second section requires every such warrant
to be drawn for the whole amount ascertained to be due to the
person entitled to the same ; and by the eighth section of the
act warrants are required to be paid in the order of their
presentation.
Such, in the main, is the case made by the relator. The defendants concede the recovery of the judgment and the lawful
issue of the bonds, but aver that the charter of said company expressly provided that the levy of a tax by the county court should
not exceed one-twentieth of one per cent each year for the
payment of the bonds and the interest thereon. They further
aver that they have levied that tax; that they have no authority
to provide any other revenue fund for the payment of the said
bnds or interest, or any judgment thereon; that the relator
is not entitled to have his judgment paid out of any other fund;
that the fund is to be distributed proportionately among all the
holders of the bonds of the $200,000 issue; that there is no
fund in the treasury applicable to the bonds; and that they are
not authorized to order a warrant for the relator's judgment
payable out of any other fund than that derived from the tax
of one-twentieth of one per cent authorized by that charter.
The provision of the charter mentioned in the pleadings is as
follows: "It shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of any
city or town, or the county court of any county, desiring so to

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

21-

do, to subscribe to the capital stock of said company, and may
issue bonds therefor, and levy a tax to pay the same not to
exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon the assessed value
of taxable property for each year."
The statutes of the State make it the duty of the county
court to levy taxes for county uses, not exceeding the rate of
five mills, or one-half per cent. The tax of one-twentieth of
one per cent is an authorized addition to this.
The United States demurred to the defence. The demurrer
was sustained and the petition dismissed. This writ of error
was then sued out.
Mr. George W. MeCrary in support of the judgment below.
The county court is expressly restricted from levying more
than one-twentieth of one per cent in any one year to pay the
bonds and coupons in controversy, or any judgment thereon.
Sect. 13 of the charter of the Missouri & Mississippi Railroad
Company. Session Acts of Mo., 1865, p. 88; Supervisorsv. United
States, 18 Wall. 71; State v. Sortridge et al., 56 Mo. 126.
The relator is not entitled to a warrant payable out of the
ordinary revenues of the county, and the defendants below have
no authority to direct its issue. The only fund applicable to
the payment of his judgment is that derived from the special
tax which the charter empowers the county court to levy.
The statute of Missouri (1 Wagner, Stat. 410 et seg.) provides that all warrants drawn upon the treasurer of the county
shall state the fund out of which the same are to be paid, and
prescribes a form for drawing them. If there be on hand no
such fund as that mentioned in the warrants which are presented
for payment, he makes on them an indorsement to that effect.
The law in force when the bonds were issued obviously requires that the different funds in the county treasury shall be
faithfully and exclusively applied to the specific purposes for
which they have been respectively collected. Notice was thus
given that these securities were payable out of a special fund,
in raising which the taxing power of the county court is expressly limited, and the holders of them must resort to that
fund alone for payment.
Mr. James G-rant, contra.
No question as to the validity of the bonds is raised. As they

UNITED STATE9 V. COUNTY

OF CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

are the obligations of the county, the holder of them is entitled
to payment from its funds in the same manner as other parties
whose claims are a general charge upon it.
The provision of the charter for the levy of a special tax was
intended to give increased value in the market to the bonds,
and furnish an additional security to the holder of them, but not
to limit his right to the avails which that tax would produce.
MR. JUSTIcE STRONG, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The question presented by the record is, whether the relator
is entitled to payment of his judgment out of the general funds
of the county, so far as the special tax of one-twentieth of one
per cent is insufficient to pay it. And we think that he is thus
entitled is plain enough, unless the act which gave the county
authority to issue the bonds directs otherwise. That act gave
plenary authority to the county to subscribe to the capital
stock of the railroad company and to issue bonds therefor,
but imposed no limit upon the amount which it empowered a
county to subscribe, and for the payment of which authority
was given for the issue of county bonds. This was left to the
discretion of the county court. So it has been held by the
Supreme Court of the State. State v. S tortridge et al., 56
Mo. 126. A limitation was, however, prescribed for the special
tax which was allowed to be levied. But that was a special
tax, distinct from and in addition to the ordinary tax which,
by other statutes, the county court was authorized to levy;
probably supposed to be made necessary by the new liabilities
the county might assume. There is no provision in the act
that the proceeds of the special tax alone shall be applied to
the payment of the bonds. None is expressed, and none, we
think, can fairly be implied. It is no uncommon thing in legislation to provide a particular fund as additional security for the
payment of a debt. It has often been done by the States, and
more than once by the Federal government. The act of Congress of Feb. 25, 1862 (12 Stat. 346), set apart the coin paid
for duties on imported goods as a special fund for the payment
of interest on the public debt and for the purchase of one per
cent thereof for a sinking fund yet no one ever thought the

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

obligation to pay the debt is limited by the amount of the duties
collected. Limitations upon a special fund provided to aid in
the payment of a debt are in no sense restrictions of the liability of the debtor. Why, then, must not the special tax of onetwentieth of one per cent be regarded as merely an additional
provision made for the payment of the new debt authorized,
rather than as a denial to the creditors of any resort to the orlinary sources from which payment of county debts is to be
made? Why should such a provision be construed as placing
the holders of the bonds in a worse situation than that of other
creditors of the county? These bonds are a debt of the county
as fully as is any other liability. Had the act which gave power
to the county to issue them said nothing of any special tax,
there could be no question that the holders of the bonds, like
other creditors, would have a resort to the money in the county
treasury collected for the discharge of its obligations; for it is
by the law made the duty of the county court to order the payment out of the county treasury of any sum of money found by
them to be due from the county. It would, therefore, have been
the court's duty to direct its clerk to issue a warrant for payment, as in other cases. And surely it is not to be held, unless
such a construction of the statute is absolutely necessary, that
when the legislature authorized the county to incur the debt, it
intended to deny to the creditor the right to look to the treasury
of the county for its payment; in other words, that the debt was
sanctioned, but that it was stripped of the usual incidents of a
debt, and the debtor was relieved from attendant liabilities.
And it is not to be inferred, from a provision giving the creditor
the benefit of a special fund, that it was intended to place him
in a worse position than that he would have occupied had no
such provision been made. And that, too, in the absence of
any direction that he must look exclusively to that fund. Such
is not a reasonable construction of the statute. Such is not a
fair implication of its purpose. It accords neither with its
Letter nor with its spirit. Yet it is for such an implication the
defendants contend, and upon it their case wholly rests.
The bonds. as we have said, and as is conceded, are an authorized debt of the county. The purpose for which they were
authorized is manifest. It was to furnish aid to the construe-

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

[Sup. Ct

tion of a railroad in which the public, and especially the county
of Clark, were thought to be interested. The bonds, it is to
be presumed, were intended to be for sale in the market; and
it was the obvious intent alike of the State, of the railroad company, and of the county that they should bring the highest
price possible. For this reason, probably, the tax of one-twentieth of one per cent was authorized, with a view to give to them
additional credit, to make them more salable, and to enable the
railroad company or the county to obtain for them a larger
price. Surely it could not have been to depreciate their value,
and make them almost worthless in the market. It was said
during the argument, and not denied, that the taxable property
of the county is valued at $3,700,000. A tax of one-twentieth
of one per cent upon that sum, taking no account of exonerations and failure to collect, would yield only $1,850, less than
one-eighth of the annual interest of the debt authorized and incurred. It is incredible that the legislature intended to deny
to the purchasers of the bonds any right to look for payment
beyond such a meagre provision; or, if it was so intended, that
the intention would not have been expressed in precise terms.
In the absence of any express declaration that the creditor's
right to claim payment shall not reach beyond the fund derived
from the small special tax, we cannot think the legislature proposed rendering the bonds unsalable or almost worthless in the
hands of those who might be so unfortunate as to hold them.
Such an intention would have defeated the object sought to be
secured by giving authority for their issue. Nor can we think
that the legislature intended to set a trap for purchasers, and
lead them to suppose they were obtaining valuable securities,
when, in fact, they would obtain what was worth next to nothing. The statute justifies no implication of any such legislative
intention. If it be said that the legislature, in limiting the
special tax allowed, contemplated no issue of bonds beyond
what one-twentieth of one per cent would pay, and did not
anticipate the improvidence of purchasers who might buy bonds
issued in excess of that sum, it may be answered, that still a
larger issue was in fact authorized. Such an issue must, therefore, have been considered as possible. And it would be absurd
to hold that the legislative intent was to allow the issue and

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. COUNTY OF CLARK.

sale of county bonds for a sum more than one hundred times
larger than the debt acknowledged by them to be due, and more
than one hundred times larger than the purchasers would be
entitled to recover.
We have been referred to the cases of Supervisors v. United
States (18 Wall. 71) and State v. Shortridge et al. (supra), as
sustaining the construction of the statute contended for by the
defendants. In fact, however, they afford it no support. In the
former of these cases, we held that a statute of the State of
Iowa conferred no power to levy a specific tax to pay a judgment rendered against a county on warrants for ordinary county
expenditures, and we asserted that a mandamus will not be
awarded to compel county officers of a State to do any act
which they are not authorized to do by the laws of the State
from which they claim their powers. We adhere now to what
we then decided. But we have in hand no such case. The
present is not an attempt to enforce the levy of any special tax,
or of any tax. It asserts no power in the county court to levy
a tax, which the defendants deny they have. It claims only a
right to share in the product of a tax confessedly authorized.
We do not, therefore, perceive that the case has any applicability to the subject we have before us. And State v. Shortridge
et al., though claimed to be in point, is equally inapplicable,
when it is observed what the case was and what was decided.
It was a suit for a mandamus to compel the county court of
Macon County to levy a tax for the payment of the principal
and interest of several railroad bonds issued in payment of a
subscription by the county to the capital stock of the Missouri
& Mississippi Railroad Company. The bonds had been issued by
virtue of a legislative act similar to that under whicl the bonds
of the present relator were issued. The county had levied the
special tax authorized by the act, and the application was for a
mandamas to compel the levy of another tax specially for the
payment of the bonds, in addition to that allowed; namely,
that of one-twentieth of one per cent. The court refused the
writ, holding that no other special tax was authorized by law
than the one mentioned in the charter of the railroad company;
and, as that had been levied, that there was no right to levy
.another. This was the only question before the court, and the

WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Ot.

decision is authority only to the extent of the case before it.
The court does not appear to have decided that the county
court could not levy a general tax for the expenses and liabilities of the county. It was only called upon to consider how
far an extraordinary or special tax could be levied. The case
called for nothing more; and, if more was intended by the judge
who delivered the opinion, it was purely obiter. In the present
case, as already said, there is no effort to enforce the levy of
any special tax.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the relator is entitled
to the mandamus for which he prays.
Judgment reversed, with instructions to give judgment on the
demurrer to the return against the respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in this judgment. I think the act
under which the bonds were issued limited the power of taxation for their payment, and that the holders are chargeable with
notice of the limitation. The debt authorized was one payable
from a particular fund. If the fund is deficient, the legislature
alone has the power to grant the necessary relief.

WERNER v. KING.
Form, when of the essence of an invention, is necessarily material; and, if it
be inseparable from the successful operation of the machine, the attainment
of the same object by a machine different in form is not an infringement.
2. The use by Robert Werner, under letters-patent No. 134,621, for crimping and
fluting-machines, issued to him Jan. 7, 1873, of the detent, or finger, in combination with fluting-rollers to produce crinkles or puffings, is not an infringement of the double-plated semi-cylinder guides covered by reissued
letters-patent No. 3000, granted to George E. King June 23, 1868.
iL.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a bill in chancery by George E. King against
Robert Werner for the alleged infringement by the latter of
two reissued letters-patent, No. 3000 and No. 8001, granted to

