WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Ot.

decision is authority only to the extent of the case before it.
The court does not appear to have decided that the county
court could not levy a general tax for the expenses and liabilities of the county. It was only called upon to consider how
far an extraordinary or special tax could be levied. The case
called for nothing more; and, if more was intended by the judge
who delivered the opinion, it was purely obiter. In the present
case, as already said, there is no effort to enforce the levy of
any special tax.
Upon the whole, therefore, we think the relator is entitled
to the mandamus for which he prays.
Judgment reversed, with instructions to give judgment on the
demurrer to the return against the respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, with whom concurred MR.
JUSTICE MILLER and MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, dissenting.

I am unable to concur in this judgment. I think the act
under which the bonds were issued limited the power of taxation for their payment, and that the holders are chargeable with
notice of the limitation. The debt authorized was one payable
from a particular fund. If the fund is deficient, the legislature
alone has the power to grant the necessary relief.

WERNER v. KING.
Form, when of the essence of an invention, is necessarily material; and, if it
be inseparable from the successful operation of the machine, the attainment
of the same object by a machine different in form is not an infringement.
2. The use by Robert Werner, under letters-patent No. 134,621, for crimping and
fluting-machines, issued to him Jan. 7, 1873, of the detent, or finger, in combination with fluting-rollers to produce crinkles or puffings, is not an infringement of the double-plated semi-cylinder guides covered by reissued
letters-patent No. 3000, granted to George E. King June 23, 1868.
iL.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
This was a bill in chancery by George E. King against
Robert Werner for the alleged infringement by the latter of
two reissued letters-patent, No. 3000 and No. 8001, granted to

Oct. 1877.]

WERNER V. KING.

the complainant June 23, 1868, the first being for an improvement in fluting-machines. The schedule referred to in the
letters-patents therefor, and making part of them, is as follows: "To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, George Edwin King, of the city, county,
and State of New York, have invented certain new and useful improvements in fluting-machines; and I do hereby declare that the
following is a full, clear, and exact description of the same, reference
being had to the accompanying drawings, making a part of this
specification, in which " Fig. 1 is a front elevation of a fluting-machine constructed according to my invention.
"Fig. 2 is an end elevation of the same.
"Fig. 3 is a detached section representing a portion of the
same.
"Fig. 4 is a plan view of a piece of the fluted puffing for the
manufacture of which my invention is intended.
"Similar letters of reference indicate corresponding parts in all
the figures.
"This invention is designed for making puffing applicable to
shirt-bosoms, trimming, or other purposes of dress, in which the
article, as it issues from the machine, is (without having recourse to
laundering) delivered in a complete form, either singly or in two
or more series or rows, composed of flattened borders, with flutes
running along their inner edges, and puffed or crinkled surfaces
between the flutes.
"The invention consists in a guide constructed with one or
more curved or arched portions, in combination with one or more
suitable fluting-rollers, whereby the material, in passing through
the machine, is fluted and contracted laterally, as it were, or drawn
up between the flutes to produce the required crinkled surface or
surfaces in the puffing.
"To enable others to understand the jonstruction and operation
of my invention, I will proceed to describe it with reference to the
drawings.
"A represents the frame which supports the working parts of
the apparatus, and situated longitudinally, in the upper part of
which are two fluting-rollers, B and 0, which are situated one above
the other, with their ends projecting through large vertical slots, a,
formed in the ends of the frame, A; the roller, B, being supported

WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Ct.

in semicircular bearings formed in the lower ends of the slots, a,
and furnished at one end with a crank, b, and the upper roller, C,
working in semicircular bearings, c, formed in sliding-blocks, c,
placed upon the ends thereof, and pressed down upon the same by
a spring, d, the tension of which may be regulated by means of a
vertical screw, e, situated centrally in the top of the frame, A.
"When desired, the upper roller, , may be held within a given
distance of the lower roller by vertical set-screws, f, situated one
at each end of the top of the aforesaid frame, A, and acting upon
the sliding or adjustable bearings, c.
"The puffing is represented in Fig. 4, and is formed of strips of
any suitable fabric, and ofa width, when finished, nearly or quite
equal to the length of the fluting-rollers, B C, and is formed with
longitudinal portions, g, which are fluted transversely to the length
of the strip aforesaid; also with portions, h, in which the fabric is
pressed flat, and through which longitudinal rows of stitching are
formed, to render permanent the conformation of the puffing; and
also with portions, 1, which are intended to be wider than the parts
just described, and which are puffed or crinkled in such manner as
to possess an irregular wavy surface.
"In order to forn these several portions of the puffing, each of
the flutting-rollers, B C, is formed with as many annular or circumferential ser'ies, A', of grooves and flutes as there are fluted portions, g, upon the puffing, with as many narrow annular faces, B', as
there are flattened portions, h, and with as many comparatively
broad portions, C', as there are puffed portions, i, in the finished
puffing; each of the said parts of the rollers being of the same
width as that portion of the completed puffing which it is designed
to shape, and the circumferential faces or portions, C', being of such
diameter, that, when the two rollers are in proper position, those
upon one roller will be situated at such distance from those upon
the other that no considerable pressure will be exerted upon the
fabric in passing between them and the several series, A', of grooves
and flutes upon one roller gearing into those upon the other roller.
"D indicates pressers, the rearmost end of each one of which is
cur ed downward, and fitted upon the upper rearmost part of each
of the faces, B', of the lower roller, B, with its forward end curved
upward in contact with the forward sides of the Coresponding
face, B', upon the other roller, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3, the aforesaid rearmost ends of these pressers, D, being pressed against the
roller, B, by set-surewsJ, passing through a horizontal bar or brace, k,
secured upon the rear of the frame, A.

Oct. 1877.]

WERNER V. KING.

"Fixed upon the forward side of the frame, A, in front of the
roller, B, is a horizontal supporting-brace, m, which has fixed upon
it an inclined plate, n, upon which is supported the inclined guide, E,
which is composed of two pieces of sheet metal, secured one over
the other, at such a distance apart as to permit the passage of the
cloth or fabric between them; and those parts of this guide, E, in
front of the plain cylindrical portions, C', of the rollers, are curved
upward or arched transversely, as shown at a', in such manner that
the width of the fabric passed between each pair of the plain portions, 0', will be greater, if stretched out to its full extent, than the
width of the said portions, so that the said fabric, by means of its
increased width, will be crinkled or puffed in passing between the
aforesaid portions, C', as will be presently fully set forth.
"The end of the strip of cloth or fabric from which the fluted
puffing is to be formed is passed into and through the guide, E, and
between the rollers, B C, and a rotary motion in the direction of the
arrow, shown in Fig. 2, is communicated to said rollers by turning
the crank b, or by other suitable means.
"The fabric is drawn lengthwise between the rollers, those portions thereof which pass between the several opposite series, A', of
grooves and flutes of the two rollers being fluted, as shown at g,
in Fig. 4, while those portions of the said fabric which pass between
the smooth, narrow annular faces, B', of the rollers, being formned into
gathers by the fluting of the fabric at the sides or edges thereof, are
pressed flat by passing under the pressers, D, as the fabric is drawn
along, at the same time that those portions of the fabric drawn
through the curved or arched parts, a', of the guide, E, being, if
stretched to their full extent, of a width greater than that of the
smooth cylindrical portions, C', and being also gathered by the
fluting formed at their sides or edges, are caused to assume a
crinkled or puffed form, as they are passed between the aforesaid
portions, C', the distance between the opposite smooth portions, C',
aforesaid being such that no pressure is exerted upon the fabric
passing between them beyond that required to simply press the
convex surfaces thereof downward to a sufficient degree to insure the shaping thereof into the puffed condition just herein
described.
"The extent to which the material will be thus contracted laterally, as it were, or drawn up between the flutes, will be governed
by the excess in length of the arched portions, a', of the guide over
a straight line or lines connecting such arched portions at their
base.

222

WERNER 1'. KING.

[Sup. Ct.

"By these means, the fluted puffing is brought into the form required in the finished article without the necessity of washing the
same, in order to bring the puffing into such form.
"To complete the puffing, longitudinal rows of stitching are
formed in the flat parts, h, of the puffing, to retain it in shape; and,
when desired, the puffing as thus completed may be divided longitudinally in the said parts, h, to separate it into narrow pieces, as
required for various trimming purposes.
"What I claim as new, and desire to secure by letters-patent,
is-

"The guide, E, constructed with one or more curved or arched
portions, a', in combination with suitable fluting-rollers, substantially
as herein set forth, for the purpose specified."
The drawings referred to in the foregoing specification are
as follows: -

Oct. 1877.]

WERNER V. KING.

The reissued letters-patent No. 8001 were for a new article of
manufacture therein described, being an improvement in fluted
puffing.
Werner, to whom were granted letters-patent No. 184,621,
bearing date Jan. 7, 1878, for an improvement in crimping
and fluting machines, denied the infringement, and insisted
that the letters-patent granted to King were void, fof want of
novelty. The specification forming part of the letters-patent
granted to Werner is as follows :
4' To all whom it may concern:
"Be it known that I, Robert Werner, of Hoboken, in the
county of Hudson, State of New Jersey, have invented a new and
improved combined crimping and fluting machine, of which the
following is a specification:"Fig. I represents a vertical transverse section of my improved
,crimping and fluting machine, the line, c c, Fig. 2, indicating the

WERNER v. KING.

[Sup. Or.

plane of section. Fig. 2 is a plan or top view of the same. Fig. 3
is a perspective view of the device for holding the fluting against
the rollers. Fig. 4 is a vertical transverse section of a modification
of my invention; Fig. 5, a face-view of the crimping and fluting
produced on tile machine; Fig. 6, a transverse section; and Fig. 7,
a longitudinal section of such fluting and crimping.
"Similar letters of reference indicate corresponding parts.
"This invention relates to a new machine for producing a fluted
and crimped fabric, substantially like that for which a design patent
was granted to me on the twenty-ninth day of November, 1870,
from a smooth and flat woven fabric; and the invention consists
principally in the application to fluting-rollers of a detent, or finger,
by which a portion of the fabric is held back, and thereby formed
into V-shaped, but more or less irregular, lateral waves and crinkles, whereby the stated and desired effect is produced. This finger
is made to bear against a platform over which the fabric is passed
to the fluting-rollers, or directly against one of the rollers, as may
be desired. The invention also consists in a new arrangement and
connection, with said fluting-rollers, of a device for holding the
fluted fabric in contact with the same while the crinkled portion of
the fabric is being elevated and puffed up by a projecting rib or
stationary plate, all as hereinafter more fully described.
"In the accompanying drawing the letter A represents the frame
of the machine. In the same are the bearings of two fluting-rollers,
B B, which are parallel with each other, and, by preference, in a
horizontal position, as indicated. The rollers, B, are provided with
zones, a a, of fluting or toothed portions, which will cause certain
strips of the fabric which pass between the said rollers to be fluted,
while the remaining portions of the same fabric will not be fluted.
C is a platform secured to the framework, A, in front of and about
In line with the space between the two rollers. D is a detent or
spring fastened to a bar, b, which rests by posts, d, upon the platform, C. The free end of the spring, D, bears against said platform
midway between the two inner zones, or any pair of zones, a a, on
said rollers. The fabric is passed over the platform, C, before it
enters the rollers, or rather in its passage to the said rollers, and is
consequently passed under and subjected to the pressure of the
spring, D, being fed or drawn forward by and between the rollers.
That portion of the fabric which is subjected to the pressure of the
spring, D, will be detained or held back or stretched back to be
drawn into the V-shaped crinkles or crimping, which is indicated

Oct. 1877.]

WERNER V. KING.

in Fig. 5, at e. This effect, of course, can only be produced if the
detent, D, bears upon the fabric previous to its being acted upon by
the rollers, so that the portion affected by said spring can be drawn
back by the detent in the manner shown. The same effect can be
produced by the modified form of detent shown in Fig. 4, in which
case the said detent is made to bear against one of the rollers, B,
and fastened to the under side of a plate, C. This modification can
only be used when the detent bears against the rollers so far forward
of the line that connects the two axes of the two rollers that sufficient material will be at the command of the detent to draw the
fabric back into the V-shaped crimping; for, if the detent would
apply to the middle of the roller when the fluting has already hold
of the fabric, the drawing back could not be produced, inasmuch as
the fluting would take up all the surplus fabric, and none would be
left for the effect by the detent. E E are metallic plates or bars
provided with projecting cheeks, f, which said cheeks bear against
the fluted portions of the fabric as it emerges from between the twc
rollers, and hold said fluted portion in contact with the lower roller
while a projecting rib, g, moves the centre of the crinkled portior
fi'om off said ioller. This gives the transverse wave of the fabric
which is indicated in Fig. 6. The plates or bars, E E, can, by setscrews, h hi, be adjusted nearer to or further away from the fluted
portions of the rollers for the purpose of holding the fluted portion
of the fabric more or less firmly against the rollers, and for flattening
portions of the fluting between the zones, a. The rollers may be
made to be hollow, to be heated by steam or otherwise, so that the
fabric which is passed between them -preferably in a moist state
-may
retain the form into which it is put by the action of the
machine. It will be found convenient to raise the detent, D, off
the platform, C (or withdraw it fiom contact with the roller, B,
when placed as in Fig. 4), in order to enter the end of the fabric
between the rollers. With this object, the bar, b,is made detachable,
and locked by keys, II (or the plate 0 made to be drawn back and
forward).
"Having thus described my invention, I claim as new, and desire
to secure by letters-patent,-"1. The detent, D, arranged in combination with the flutingrollers, B B, to produce the crinkles or puffing on the fabric, which
is partially fluted, as set forth.
"2. The platform 0, or C', arranged in combination with the
detent, D, and rollers, B, as specified.
voL. V.

16

226

WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Cf.

"3. The cheek-pieces, f, in the plates, E, applied, in conjunction with the projecting rib, g, to the fluting-rollers, B B, as specifled."

Oct. 1877.]

WERNER V. KING.

The court below decreed in favor of King, whereupon Werner appealed here.
31r. Art kur v. Briesen for the appellant.
Mr. FredericH. Betts, contra.
MR.

JUSTICE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

Letters-patent were issued to George E. King on the 26th
February, 1867, for a new and useful improvement in fluting
machines. He surrendered them, and on the 23d June, 1868,
had two patents granted him as reissues of the o 'ginal. The
first of these, No. 3000, was for the machine by which the
article of fluting and puffing described in the patent was made;
and the other, No. 3001, was for the article made as described.
The record before us is that of a suit in chancery brought by
him against Robert Werner for an infringement of both these
patents. Werner defended on the ground that the patents
were void for want of novelty, and also by denying the infringement. The Circuit Court held that the defence was
sustained as to the patent for -the article produced, on the
ground that it was not new, but rendered a decree in favor of
King as to the reissued patent, No. 3000, for the machine.

WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Or.

Werner alone appeals, and seeks a reversal of the decree on
both the grounds urged below.
We will examine the question of infringement first; for, if
the appellant has not infringed the patent of the appellee, he
can very well leave to others the task of contesting its validity.
The appellant is also patentee of a machine for crimping and
fluting, which produces an article similar to that of the appellee,
and parts of the machine by which the purpose is effected are
substantially the same as his. If on looking at the machine in
detail there is such substantial identity as to all its parts, the
appellant must be held to be an infringer, for his patent bears
a date more than four years subsequent to that of the appellee.
The appellee's schedule declares that his invention is designed
for making puffing applicable to shirt-bosoms, trimming, or
other purposes of dress, in which the article, as it issues from
the machine, is (without having recourse to laundering) delivered in a complete form, either singly, or in two or more series
or rows, composed of flattened borders with flutes running along
their inner edges, and puffed or wrinkled surfaces between the
flutes.
The fabric to be fluted and puffed is drawn between a pair
of rollers moved by a crank, the rollers, where they approach
each other, having flutes or grooves so arranged as by their
pressure on the fabric as it passes between them to make the
fluting and to flatten it. These grooves on the rollers, while
they are continuous in the annular or circumferential direction
of the rollers, are interrupted in their longitudinal direction by
smooth spaces, so that the material passing between the rollers
is fluted or crimped in parts of its width and left plain in other
parts which do not pass over the grooves. It is obvious, if this
plain portion of the fabric, as it passes over the plain surface
of the roller, can be so presented as to be compressed laterally,
vr in any other manner to have more of the material thus forced
into the machine than is necessary to cover this plain surface,
that when it comes out of the machine, while the fluted parts
are fixed and flattened, the intermediate portion must present
a puffed and irregular surface. It is this effect which is desired,
and which King, by an additional contrivance, produces; and it
is this contrivance which, in combination vith the fluting-rollers

Oct. 1877.J

WERNER V. KING.

already described, but which are not new, he claims as his
invention.
This part of the machine consists of a double-plated segment
of a hollow cylinder, the arch of which is upwards, so arranged
with regard to the fluting-rollers that the part of the material
which is intended to be puffed and not fluted, passing first
between the plates of this arched guide, is presented to the
plain surface of the roller, with the width of the strip increased
by the difference between the lines of the curved or arched
surface of the cylinder and the plain or horizontal surface of
the roller which receives it. The result is, that when the material comes out of the machine this redundancy of the plain
part of it assumes the form of irregular puffs, which is the end
to be attained. All this is very well described, and specific
references illustrated by drawings are given to the various parts
of the machine.
"What I claim as new," he says, in conclusion, "and desire
to secure by letters-patent, is: the guide, E, constructed-with
one or more curved or arched portions, a, in combination with
suitable fluting-rollers, substantially-as herein set forth for the
purpose specified."
The schedule of Werner's patent, which is numbered 184,621,
describes the same kind of fluting-rollers, and is designed to
produce, while passing through them, what he calls a crinkled
surface in that part of the fabric not fluted. But in his machine the redundancy of material is produced by passing it over
a smooth, flat surface, from which it is presented to the flutin'grollers; and while so passing over this flat surface a detent, or
finger, is applied to that part of it not to be fluted, which, by
reason of the pressure of a spring, holds back this part of the
material. It is thus formed into V-shaped waves or crinkles,
more or less irregular, whereby the desired effect is pro.
duced.
It will be observed that the main features of both machines
are the same, and that whatever is new in either is ingrafted
upon a fluting-machine, many of which were patented long
prior to both of them.
The question we are now to consider is, whether the flat
surface and finger, or detent, of Werner are the mechanical

WERNER V. KING.

[Sup. Ct.

equivalents of the double-plated segment of a cylinder used by
King, within the principles of the patent law on that subject.
It is said that they are equivalents, because they produce the
same result. The fact stated may be doubted; for an examination of numerous pieces of textile fabrics passed through both
machines show in those crimped by Werner's the regular
V-shaped crinkle, with the acute angle pointing in the same
direction with great uniformity ; while in those passed through
King's the puffs are elevated, wavy, and irregular. But since
the patent for the article is not contested here, this difference
is of no other importance than as it illustrates the difference in
the mode of operation of the two machines.
It is further said, that the difference is merely one of form;
and cases are cited in which this court has held that a mere
variation in the form or shape of the instrument cannot be
successfully used to evade the monopoly. But where form is of
the essence of the invention, it is necessarily material ; and, if
the same object can be attained by a machine different in form
where that form is inseparable from the successful operation of
the instrument, there is no infringement. Winans v. Dei mead,
15 How. 330. In King's patent, the result sought is wholly due
to the guiding arch, through which the fabric is carried. It is
this semicircular form which gives the redundancy of material
necessary to the puff; and no guide which did not in some
manner give the material an arched or curved shape as it
passed into the fluting-rollers can be considered as a part of
King's patent. It is not only necessary to an infringement
that the arrangement which infringes should perform the same
service, or produce the same effect, but, as Mr. Justice Nelson
said in Sickles v. Borden (3 Blatchf. 535), it must be done in
substantially the same way. Burr v. Duryee, 1 Wall. 531.
The difference in the shape or form of the guide in these
machines is not the only one. They operate on entirely
different principles. King's instrument is, to some extent,
automatic.
The strip of the fabric to be used, being once between the
upper and under plates of his arched guide, cannot escape, and
it must, in passing into the fluting-rollers, present the same
amount of redundant material, whatever may be the elasticity

Oct. 18Y77.

Oct. 877.]WERREP
V.KING.

3r rigidity of the fabric. A piece of leather would, if it passed
through, present precisely the same elevation of the arch, and
length of line of the semicircles, as a piece of gauze. Whereas,
under the operation of the detent of Werner, the length of the
lines and the acuteness of the angle of the V would vary with
the resisting strength of the fabric and the power of the spring
which pressed the detaining finger.
Another marked difference is, that in King's machine the
redundant fulness which makes the puff is produced by a
pressure which is uniform over the surface of the fabric, the
t vo plates giving it the exact form required, and no other;
while Werner's finger seizes the fabric in the centre of the part
to be crinkled, and by pulling on it at this central point, as it
is dragged in between the rollers, enough of the material is
drawn in from the edges towards the centre to create the
_edundancy necessary to the puff or crinkle. This is done by
the material passing over a fiat, smooth surface; and while on
this flat plate the finger is applied to it, and detains or draws
to this central point a portion of the fabric. There exists no
such plate or flat surface or finger in Kings machine. It seems
impossible to hold that this flat surface, this pointed finger
whose force is dependent on a spring, are the mechanical equivalents of the double-plated semi-cylinder of King's guide. If
this be so, it is because King's patent covers every method
which can be invented for presenting the material to the flutingrollers in such a manner as to create a redundancy to be made
into puffs. This is not claimed; and, if claimed, the claim
would be fatal to the patent.
We are of opinion that the machine of Werner, and its use
by him, is no infringement of King's, and the decision of the
Circuit Court will, therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded
with directions to dismiss the bill; and it is

So ordered.

