Oct. 1877.]

Ex

PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

son v. JllcNairy,1 Bibb, 356. The sum of "fifty cents" is named,
but merely as the limit of the value in goods demandable and to
be paid upon the presentment of the note. Its mention was for
no other purpose, and has no other effect. In the view of the
law, the note is as if it called for so many pounds, yards, or
quarts of a specific article. The limit of value, there being
none other, gave the holder a range of choice as to the articles
to be received in payment, limited only by the contents of thp
store.
But it is said the indictment avers that the note was intended
to circulate as money, and that the demurrer admits the truth
of the averment.
To this there are two answers :
1. The demurrer admits only what is well pleaded.
2. The offence, as we have shown, consists of two elements:
the thing circulated, and the intent of the party circulating it.
The demurrer, at most, admits only the latter. As to the
former, the judgment of the court is left unfettered, just as if
the question before us had been raised by a motion to quash,
instead of a demurrer.
The first question certified must be answered in the negative. The second one it is, therefore, unnecessary to consider.
Ma. JUSTICE MmLER dissented.

EX PA TE SCHOLLENBERGE.
A foreign insurance company was doing business in Pennsylvania under a license
granted pursuant to a statute, which, among other things, provided that the
company should file a written stipulation, agreeing that process issued in any
suit brought in any court of that Commonwealth having jurisdiction of the
subject-matter, and served upon the agent specified by the company to receive
service of process for it, should have the same effect as if personally served
upon the company within the State. Suit was brought in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by a citizen bf
.hat State against the company, and process served, in accordance with the
State law, upon its agent so specified, who resided within the district. The
service of the process was quashed, because the company was not an inhabitant of or found within the district. Held, 1. That the Circuit Court has
jurisdiction of the suit, and should proceed to hear and determine it. 2. That
said court is a court of the Commonwealth, within the intent of the statute.
24
VOL. VI.

Ex PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

[Sup. Or.

PETITION for a mandamus to the judges of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Schollenberger, a citizen of Pennsylvania, brought sundry
suits in said Circuit Court against certain foreign insurance
companies, upon policies which they had severally issued upon
his property situate in that State and within the jurisdiction of
the court.
Each company, before the issue of its policy, had accepted
the provisions of the statute of the State, and, in compliance
therewith, appointed its agent residing there, on whom process
of law against it could be served. So much of the statute as
bears on the question here involved is set out in the opinion of
this court.
The service of the writs, which were sued out by Schollenberger, and executed, in accordance with the State law, on the
agents of the several companies by them respectively specified
for the purpose, and residing within the jurisdiction of the
court, was quashed by the Circuit Court. On his petition,
setting forth the foregoing facts, a rule was awarded upon the
judges of that court to show cause why a writ of mandamus
should not be issued out of the office of this court, commanding
them to hear and determine the suits so brought in the said
Circuit Court, and also to strike from the record certain orders
dated the thirteenth day of April, 1878, whereby the service of
the said writs was quashed, and thereupon to make such disposition of the suits as ought to have been made, had the said
orders not been entered.
The judges, in their return, answered, that the facts were
truly stated in the petition; that the respondents declined to
hear and determine the said suits, because, in their opinion,
the said Circuit Court had no competent jurisdiction thereof,
the defendants not having appeared therein, or in any wise
submitted to the jurisdiction of the court, and not having been
at the commencement of the respective suits, or at any time,
inhabitants of or found in the said district, within the meaning of the act of Congress of March 3, 1875, re-enacting a like
provision of the eleventh section of the act of Sept. 24, 1789;
that the question under this enactment being one of jurisdic-

Oet. 1877.]

EX PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

tion, and not of mere procedure, the statute of Pennsylvania,
mentioned in the said petition, was, in the opinion of the
respondents, inapplicable. The service of the process in the
said suits was, therefore, set aside, as unauthorized.
i1r. B. C. .Diciurtrie and Hr. A. Sydney Biddle for Schollenberger.
1. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over the parties is
indisputable. Schollenberger was a citizen of Pennsylvania.
The corporations were created by other States, and by entering
their appearance to the actions would have become subject to
that jurisdiction, which would not be the case if the requisite
citizenship of the parties to the record did not exist. Jones v.
Anderson, 10 Wall. 327.
2. Mandamus is the appropriate remedy.
That writ goes to the archbishop, if exercising judicial functions, Beg. v. Canterbury, 11 Q. B. 483 ; to a court declining
to exercise judicial functions imposed by law, Beg. v. TWest B.
Justices, 1 New Sess. Cas. 247; to compel making a warrant
of distress, St. Lues v. Middlesex, 1 Wils. 133; on a refusal
to act because of a statute which did not apply to the case,
Beg. v. Bingham, 4 Q. B. 877; on a refusal to hear an
appeal for reasons which were not legal ones, Beg. v. Middlesex, 2 B. C. R. 82; on a refusal because of an erroneous
opinion as to sufficiency of grounds, Beg. v. Carnarvon,1 G.
& D. 423; or on erroneous point of practice, Beg. v. Xistevan, 3 Q. B. 810; on a refusal of the Circuit Court to take
jurisdiction of a cause removed to it from a State court, Bailroad Company v. Wiswall, 23 Wall. 567; on a refusal to
grant an appeal to which a party is entitled, -Exparte Cutting,
94 U. S. 14; Ex parte Jordan, id. 248.
3. The State had a right to impose the prescribed conditions
to the transaction of the business of insurance within her territory by the companies. -Doyle v. Insurance Company, 94 U. S.
535; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. _French, 18 How. 404; Bailroad
Company v. Harris,12 Wall. 65. The latter having accepted
them, and subsequently issued the policies which are the subject-matter of the suits in question, were bound to specify, and
-did specify, agents residing within the State upon whom process
could be served. Service in the mode prescribed by the State

EX PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

[Sup. Ct

law, upon such agents actually within the jurisdiction of the
court, was, therefore, good under the act of Congress (17 Stat.
197), and had the same effect as if personally made within
the eastern district of Pennsylvania upon the respective corn
panies.
4. Each of the companies had, therefore, a habitat for the
purposes of jurisdiction within that district, and was found
there, within the meaning of the act of Congress of March 3
1875 (18 Stat. 470). Knott v. Southern Life Insurance Co.,
2 Woods, 479; Railroad Company v. Harris,supra.
M1Tr. Richard P. White, contra.
1. Mandamus is not the proper remedy.
The question raised on the motion below to quash the service of the writs was one of jurisdiction, and the judges in
passing upon it were obviously acting in a judicial, and not
in a ministerial, capacity. The proceeding may be reviewed
on error; but it is not the office of a mandamus to compel
an inferior court to reverse a decision made in the exercise of its legitimate jurisdiction. .Ex parte Flippin, 94 U. S.
348.
2. The service of the writs was properly quashed. Each of
the defendants was a foreign corporation, not having an existence, nor its officers any official character, outside the limits of
the State which created it. Bank of Augusta v. EJarlt, 3 Pet.
519; Ohio & ilississippi Railroad Co. v. Wheeler, 1 Black,
286. It could not, therefore, be found within the district
Although the pretended service was according to the State
law, the act of Congress requiring conformity of process and
procedure did not make it good, if a court of the United
States had no power to issue the writ, or proceed in the cause.
That power cannot be derived from State legislation, Toland
v. Sprague, 12 Pet. 300; Levy v. _itzpatrick, 15 id. 167; Insurance Company v. 1,Morse, 20 Wall. 445; and Congress, so far
from conferring it, has prohibited a suit in the Circuit Court
against a person not an inhabitant of nor found within the
district.
The writs, for the service of which the statute of Pennsylvania provides, are, by an express limitation, confined to those
sued out in actions brought in the tribunals of that State.

Oct. 1877.]

Ex PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

If, however, each company, by its acceptance of that statute,
was constituted, pro tanto, a Pennsylvania corporation, then
the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction, as both parties were, for
the purposes of the suit, citizens of the same State. Where a
corporation exists in two States, it cannot be sued in a Federal
court by a citizen of either of them. Ohio J"Mississippi Bailroad Co. v. Wheeler, supra.
The decision of the Circuit Court is sustained by Pomeroy v.
New York
New Haven .Railroad Co., 4 Blatchf. 120; Day
v. Newarl India-rubber Manufacturing Co., id. 628; Southern
Atlantic Telegraph Co. v. The New Orleans, Mobile, & Texas
Railroad Co., 2 Cent. Law Jour. 88; and Stilwell v. The Empire Tf ire Insurance Co., 4 id. 88.
Railroad Company v. Harris,upon which great reliance is
placed on the other side, was a suit brought in the District of
Columbia against a foreign corporation doing business there,
under an act which provided that service might be made upon
the agent. Congress may undoubtedly regulate the mode 6f
serving process in the courts of that District, and prescribe the
conditions upon which foreign corporations may there transact
business. Its power in that regard is the same as that of the
several States within their respective limits, and no one questions that Pennsylvania can determine the manner in which
writs issued by her own courts may be executed. That case
differs essentially from this. Congress, by an act solely applicable to a specific territory, extended the jurisdiction of its
courts to suits against a foreign corporation doing business
there, when process should be served in the mode prescribed;
while by the act of Mlarch 3, 1875, which governs here, it
withholds from the Circuit Court jurisdiction over a defendant not an inhabitant of or found within the proper
district.
The opinion in that case must, therefore, be understood
with reference to the facts. Although not relating to the effect
of State legislation upon the service of Federal writs, it evidently misled the learned judge of the fifth circuit in Knott
v. Southern Life Insurance Co. It should also be borne in
mind that the statute which he had under consideration differs
from that of Pennsylvania, in requiring the foreign company

Ex PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

[Sup. 01

doing business in Alabama to consent that service upon its
agents there shall be sufficient, without restriction as to the
courts out of which the writ may issue.
MR. C-mEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a petition for a writ of mandamus, requiring the
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to hear and determine certain
suits brought in that court in favor of the relators against a
number of insurance companies incorporated by the laws of
other States, but doing business in that State under a license
granted pursuant *to a statute regulating that subject. The
Circuit Court declines to entertain jurisdiction of the causes,
for the reason, as is alleged, that the defendant companies were
not "at the commencement of the respective suits, or at any
time, inhabitants of or found in the said district." This presents the only question in the case, as it is conceded that the
citizenship of the parties is such as to give the court jurisdiction, if the several defendants can be sued in the district without their consent.
A statute of Pennsylvania provides that "no insurance company not of this State, nor its agents, shall do business in this
State until he has filed with the insurance commissioner of this
State a written stipulation, duly authenticated by the company,
agreeing that any legal process affecting the company served
on the insurance commissioner, or the party designated by him,
or the agent specified by said company to receive service of
process for the said company, shall have the same effect as if
served personally on the company within this State; and, if such
company should cease to maintain such agent in this State, so
designated, such process may thereafter be served on the insurance commissioner; but, so long as any liability of the stipulating company to any resident of this State continues, such
stipulation cannot be revoked or modified, except that a new
one may be substituted, so as to require or dispense with the
sevice at the office of said company within this State, and that
such service of process according to this stipulation shall be
sufficient personal service on the company. The term 'pro-

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

cess' includes any writ of summons, subpcena, or order whereby
any action, suit, or proceedings shall be commenced, or which
shall be issued in or upon any action, suit, or proceedings
brought in any court of this Commonwealth having jurisdiction of the subject-matter." Laws of Penn., 1878, p. 27, sect. 13.
The return to the rule to show cause admits that all the defendant companies were doing business in the State under this
statute, and that their designated agents were duly served with
process in each of the suits. For the purposes of this hearing,
the fact of due service upon the agents must be considered as
,stablished. If in reality it is not so, the court below will not
be precluded by any thing in this proceeding from inquiring
into the truth, and acting upon the facts as they are found to
exist.
The act of 1875, determining the jurisdiction of the circuit
courts (18 Stat. 470), and which in this particular is substattially a re-enactment of the act of 1789 (1 Stat. 79, sect. 11),
provides that "no civil suit shall be brought before either of
said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhab
itant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving such
process or commencing such proceedings, except," &c.
It is unnecessary to inquire whether these several companies
were inhabitants of the district. The requirements of the law,
for all the purposes of this case, are satisfied ifthey were found
there at the time of the commencement of the suits; and that
question, we think, was settled in Bailroad Company v. Harris,
12 Wall. 65. In that case, it appears that, when the suit was
commenced, the statutes defining the jurisdiction of the courts
of the District of Columbia provided that "no action or suit
shall be brought.., by any original process against any person
who shall not be an inhabitant of or found within the District
at the time of serving the writ." 2 Stat. 106, sect. 6. Afterwards, in 1867, the law was changed in respect to foreign corporations doing business in the District, and service allowed
upon the agent (14 Stat. 404, sect. 11); but when the suit
was begun and the process served the old law was in force.
The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, a Maryland corporation, was authorized by Congress to construct and extend its

376

Ex

PARTE SCHOLLENBERGE.

[Sup

Ct.

railroad into the District of. Columbia. Harris, having been
injured while travelling as a passenger upon the railroad outside of the District, sued the company in the Supreme Court of
the District, and caused the writ to be served upon the president of the company within the District. The company objected
to the jurisdiction of the court, and insisted that it was neither
an inhabitant of nor found within the District. In ruling upon
this objection, we held that, although the company was a foreign corporation, it was suable in the District, because it had in
effect consented to be sued there, in consideration of its being
permitted by Congress to exercise therein its corporate powers
and privileges. The language of the court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Swayne, is: "It (a corporation) cannot migrate,
but may exercise its authority in a foreign territory upon such
conditions as may be prescribed by the law of the place. One
of these conditions may be that it shall consent to be sued
there. If it do business there, it will be presumed to have
assented, and will be bound accordingly." Then, after an
examination of the statute granting the right to extend the
road, it was said (p. 84): "We entertain no doubt that it
made the company liable to suit where this suit was brought,
in all respects as if it had been an independent corporation of
the same locality." This language was cited with approbation,
and adopted as a correct exposition of the law by Mr. Justice
Field, speaking for the court, in Railway Company v. Whitton,
13 Wall. 270.
Applying these principles to the present case, there cannot
be any doubt, as it seems to us, of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court over these defendant companies. They have in express
terms, in consideration of a grant of the privilege of doing business within the State, agreed that they may be sued there;
that is to say, that they may be found there for the purposes
of the service of process issued "by any court of the Commonwealth having jurisdiction of the subject-matter." This was a
condition imposed by the State upon the privilpge granted, and
it was not unreasonable. Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French,
18 How. 404. It was insisted in argument that the statute
confines the right of suit to the courts of the State; but we
cannot so construe it. There is nothing to manifest such an

Oct. 1877.]

EX PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

intention; and, as the object of the legislature evidently was
to relieve the citizens of Pennsylvania from the necessity of
going outside of the State to seek judicial redress upon their
contracts made with foreign insurance companies, it isbut reasonable to suppose that they were entirely at liberty to select the
court in the State having jurisdiction of the subject-matter,
which, in their judgment, was the most convenient and desirable. As the company, if sued in a State court, could remove
the cause to the Circuit Court, and thus compel a citizen of the
State to submit to that jurisdiction, we see no reason why the
citizen may not, if he desires it, bring the company into the same
jurisdiction at the outset. While the Circuit Court may not be
technically a court of the Commonwealth, it is a court within
it; and that, as we think, is all the legislature intended to provide for.
States cannot by their legislation confer jurisdiction upon the
courts of the United States, neither can consent of parties give
jurisdiction when the facts do not; but both State legislation
and consent of parties may bring about a state of facts which
will authorize the courts of the United States to take cognizance
of a case. Ex parte McNeil, 13 Wall. 236. Thus, if the parties to a suit, both plaintiff and defendant, are in fact citizens
of the same State, an agreement upon the record that they are
citizens of different States will not give jurisdiction. But if the
two agree that one shall move into and become a citizen of another State, in order that jurisdiction may be given, and he
actually does so in good faith, the court cannot refuse to entertain the suit. So, as'in this case, if the legislature of a State'
requires a foreign corporation to consent to be "found" within
its territory, for the purpose of the service of process in a suit,
as a condition to doing business in the State, and the corporation does so consent, the fact that it is found gives the jurisdiction, notwithstanding the finding was procured by consent. The
essential fact is the finding, beyond which the cout will not
ordinarily look.
A corporation cannot change its residence or its citizenship.
It can have its legal home only at the place where it is located
by or under the authority of its chatter; but it may by its
agents transact business anywhere, unless prohibited by its

Ex

PARTE SCHOLLENBERGER.

[Sup. Ct.

charter or excluded by local laws. Under such circumstances,
it seems clear that it may, for the purpose of securing business,
consent to be "found" away from home, for the purposes of
suit as to matters growing out of its transactions. The act of
Congress prescribing the place where a person may be sued is
not one affecting the general jurisdiction of the courts. It is
rather in the nature of a personal exemption in favor of a defendant, and it is one which he may waive. If the citizenship
of the parties is sufficient, a defendant may consent to be sued
anywhere he pleases, and certainly jurisdiction will not be ousted
because he has consented. Here, the defendant companies have
provided that they can be found in a district other than that in
which they reside, if a particular mode of proceeding is adopted,
and they have been so found. In our opinion, therefore, the
Circuit Court has jurisdiction of the causes, and should proceed
to hear and decide them.
We are aware that the practice in the circuit courts generally
has been to decline jurisdiction in this class of suits. Upon an
examination of the reported cases in which this question has
been decided, we find that in almost every instance the ruling
was made upon the authority of the late Mr. Justice Nelson, in
Day v. The Newark India-rubber Manufacturing Co., 1 Blatchf.
628, and Pomeroy v. The New York & New Raven Railroad Co.,
4 id. 120. These cases were decided by that learned justice,
the one in 1850 and the other in 1857, long before our decision
in Railroad Company v. Harris (supra), which was not until
1870, and are, as we think, in conflict with the rule we there
established. It may also be remarked, that Mr. Justice Nelson,
as a member of this court, concurred in that decision.
Judge Woods, of the fifth circuit, has already decided in
favor of the jurisdiction in Knott v. The Southern Life Insurance
Co. (2 Woods, 479), and Judge Dillon, of the eighth circuit,
declined to take it, only because he felt himself foreclosed
by the rulings of other judges, and especially of Mr. Justice
Nelson. Stillwell v. The Empire Fire Insurance Co., 4 Cent,
Law Jour. 463.
Writ of mandamus granted.

