DIAL V. RIEYNOLDS.

DIAL

v.

[Sup. Ot.

REYNOLDS.

1. Except in cases arising under the bankrupt law, a court of the United States
cannot enjoin a party from proceeding in a State court.
2. A bill of foreclosure is bad for misjoinder of parties and for multifariousness,
where persons are made defendants thereto who claim title adversely to
the mortgagor and the complainant, and the latter seeks in that suit to
litigate and settle his rights.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States foi the
Eastern District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Submitted on printed arguments by Hir. J. ff. Tornburgh
for the appellant.
There was no opposing counsel.

MR. JUSTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

The original bill was filed by Lyford, as trustee, and Staatsman.
Reynolds demurred. Subsequently Lyford resigned his place as
such trustee, and Dial was appointed in his stead, pursuant to
a law of Tennessee. Dial and Staatsman filed an amended and
supplemental bill. To this bill Reynolds also demurred. Dial
and Staatsman filed another amended bill, and Reynolds again
demurred. All the bills set forth substantially the same case.
The facts alleged may be briefly stated. A deed of trust was
executed by Cooper to Lyford, to secure certain liabilities of
the grantor to Staatsman, and for other purposes. Reynolds
asserted title in himself to the property covered by the deed.
He claimed adversely to all the other parties. He had before
sued another party for the premises. The case was brought to
this court for final determination. It was decided against him.
He thereafter commenced another action of ejectment in the
proper State court, which was still pending. The bill seeks to
foreclose the deed of trust, to quiet the title of the trustee, to
remove the cloud cast upon it by Reynolds, and to enjoin him
finally from further prosecuting his pending action of ejectment.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrers and dismissed the
bills. The complainants appealed to this court. The case was
submitted here without oral argument. The counsel for the

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

appellants has filed a brief. None has been filed upon the other
side.
There are two objections to these bills :1. The gravamen of what is desired as to Reynolds is an injunction to prevent his proceeding at law in the State court.
Without this, all else is of no account. Any other remedy
would be unavailing. Such an injunction, except under the
Bankrupt Act, no court of the United States can grant. With
this exception, it is expressly forbidden by law. Act of March
2, 1793, sect. 5 (1 Stat. 834); Rev. Stat., sect. 720; Diggs v.
Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179; Peck et al. v. 7enness et al., 7 How.
612; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679.
2. It is well settled that in a foreclosure proceeding the complainant cannot make a person who claims adversely to both
the mortgagor and mortgagee a party, and litigate and settle
his rights in that case. Barbour, Parties in Equity, 493, and
the cases there cited.
This case was one of fatal misjoinder and multifariousness,
and the proper course for Reynolds was to demur. Story,
Eq. P1., sect. 284 b.
The complainants not having amended by striking out so
much of the bills as related to him and his claim, it was propex
for the court to sustain the demurrers and dismiss the bills.
-Decreeaffirmed.

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.
1. Where a city council is vested with power to cause sidewalks in the city to be
constructed, it may authorize the mayor, and the chairman of the committee
on streets and alleys, to make, in its behalf, and pursuant to its directions,
a contract for doing the work.
2. A provision in the charter, that the city council shall not borrow for general
purposes more than $50,000, does not limit the debt of the city, nor prohibit
the council from entering into a contract involving an expenditure exceeding that amount, for special improvements, such as the grading and paving
of streets and the construction of sidewalks, which are authorized by the
charter.
& Such a contract is not rendered wholly inoperative because it provides that
the work done under it shall be paid for in bonds of the corporation, the

