Oct. 1877.]

WISCONSIN V. DULUTH.

WIscoNsr& v. DULUTH.
Where Congress has, in the exercise of its lawful authority, inaugurated or
adopted a system for the improvement of a harbor, and is, by appropriating
the public moneys, carrying it out, this court has no authority to prescribe the
manner in which the work shall be conducted, or to forbid its completion, or
to require the undoing of that which has been done.

OnIGI AL.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mf. I C'.
aSloan and M1r. James B. Beek for the complainant.
31r. 0. X. Davis, contra.
Mi. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in chancery, filed in this court by the State ot
Wisconsin, by virtue of the constitutional provision which confers upon the court jurisdiction of suits between the States and
between a State and citizens of other States. To the bill as
originally brought the city of Duluth, as a corporation of the
State of Minnesota, and, therefore, a citizen of that State, and
the Northern Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation organized under an act of Congress, were made defendants. Whether
the jurisdiction of the court could have been sustained in regard
to the latter corporation, it is not necessary to inquire; for the
plaintiff, before the final hearing, dismissed the bill as to the
railroad company: and we are now, after answer, replication,
and a large amount of evidence, to render our decree as between
the State of Wisconsin and the city of Duluth.
This city is situated on the northern shore of Lake Superior,
near its western extremity; and about seven or eight miles
south-east of it, on the Wisconsin shore, is Superior City. A
narrow strip of land, varying from three to eight hundred feet
in width, projects itself from the shore at Duluth into the
waters of the lake about seven miles, terminating just opposite
Superior City, and opposite another point coming from the
Wisconsin shore. The strip of land first mentioned is a part
of the State of Minnesota, and is called Minnesota Point. West
of Minnesota Point is a body of water lying parallel to it, and
averaging a mile and a half or two miles in width, called Superior Bay, and still west of that a similar body, called St. Louis

WISCONSIN

v.

DULUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Bay. Into this latter empties the St. Louis River, draining a
large area of country west of the lake, and discharging the water
thus collected into the lake.
St. Louis Bay and Superior Bay are spoken of as parts of
St. Louis River, as enlargements of that stream; and testimony is taken to show that the water does not flow from the
lake east of Minnesota Point into these bays, and other testimony to show that it does. Whether these bays are considered
as parts of Lake Superior, or as mere expansions of the river,
is in our view immaterial; for it is a fact not denied that there
is a current due to the liver through both these bays, which, in
the natural condition of the points of land we have mentioned,
discharged itself into the main body of the lake at the southern
end of Minnesota Point; and that this point was the natural
entrance and exit of vessels from the lake into the bays, and
from the bays into the lake. And previous to the act of the
city of Duluth, presently to be mentioned as the foundation of
this suit, it was the only passage for vessels into and out of the
bay. There was here in this bay a natural harlcor where vessels could anchor in safety, and it was the only one on Lake
Superior within fifty or sixty miles of its western limit. Here
grew up Superior City, at which all vessels landed which came
by the great lake system so far west. Outside of the bay and
east of Minnesota Point the lake was rough, and there was no
protection for vessels from the winds and waves.
The passage or channel at this narrow entrance, which by
complainant is called the mouth of the St. Louis River, was
never very deep, and the bar, if it may be so called, gave great
trouble on this account. For several years prior to 1871, the
United States had made appropriations to remedy this difficulty;
and a plan had been adopted and money expended in the construction of piers on each side of the channel, which, by confining the flow of the water within narrow limits, would, by the
process of scouring, keep the channel from filling up, and ir
was hoped would also deepen it.
By the spring of 1871, the city of Duluth, stimulated by the
construction of the Northern Pacific Railroad westward from
that city, which was its terminus on the lake, began to feel the
need of a safe harbor of its own. A breakwater or pier built

Oct. 1877.]

WISCONSIN v. DULUTH.

into the lake was started by an appropriation by Congress,
but was found to be unsatisfactory. The city of Duluth conceived and executed in a very short time the project of a canal
across the narrow neck of Minnesota Point, near its connection
with the main shore. By this means, vessels could enter Superior Bay, where it washed the shores of Duluth, as well as by
the channel which let them into the same bay at Superior City.
The railroad company and the city expended large sums of
money to dredge out and make this harbor fit for the purposes
of the large commerce which was expected to be brought there
by the railroad. The canal across Minnesota Point was made
about two hundred and fifty feet wide and from fifteen to eighteen feet deep; while the greatest depth at the mouth of the
St. Louis River was ten and twelve feet.
The citizens of Superior City began to resist this action of
the people of Duluth and the railroad company as soon as they
comprehended the magnitude of the project. The contest has,
from that time to the present, been urged before the State legislatures, before Congress, before the-'War Department (as having
charge of appropriations to be spent in the improvement of
navigation at these points), and in the courts, where there have
been several suits before the one we are now about to decide.
The present suit was brought by State of Wisconsin, on the
ground that the channel of the St. Louis River, as it flowed in
a state of nature, was the common boundary between that State
and the State of Minnesota, and that she has an interest in the
continuance of the channel as an important highway for navigation and commerce in its natural and usual course. That the
canal cut by Duluth across Minnesota Point, deeper than the
natural outlet of the St. Louis River at its mouth, has diverted,
and will continue to divert, the current of that river through
Superior Bay into the lake by way of that canal. That the
result of this is, that while the current cuts that canal deeper
and gives an outlet for the water there at a lower level, it at
the same time, by diverting this current from the old outlet,
causes it to fill up, and thus destroys the usefulness of the river
and bay as an aid of commerce, on which the State had a right
to rely. The bill, after reciting the facts which we have already
detailed, insists that the city of Duluth cannot, by any right of

WISCONsIN V. DULUTH.

[Sup. Ct.

her own nor by any authority conferred on her by the State
of Minnesota, thus divert the waters of the stream -the St.
Louis River- from their natural course, to the prejudice of the
rights of the State of Wisconsin or of her citizens. It declares
that this canal at Duluth does this in violation of law; and it
prays of this court to enjoin Duluth from protecting or maintaining it, and by way of mandatory injunction to compel that
city to fill up the canal and restore things in that regard to the
condition of nature in which they were before the canal was
made.
The answer, while admitting the construction of the canal,
denies almost every other material allegation of the bill. It
denies especially that the canal has the effect of changing the
course of the current of the river, or does any injury to the
southern entrance to Superior Bay or diminishes the flow of
water at that point.
A large amount of testimony, professional and non-professional, is presented on that subject. The answer also sets up,
as an affirmative defence to the relief sought by the bill, that
the United States, by the legislative and executive departments
of the government, have approved of the construction of the
canal, have taken possession and control of the work, have
appropriated and spent money on it, and adopted it as the best
mode of making a safe and accessible harbor at the western end
of the great system of lake navigation.
Many very interesting questions have been argued, and ably
argued, by counsel, which we have not found it necessary to
decide. The counsel for defence deny that the State of Wisconsin has any such legal interest in the flow of the waters in
their natural course as authorizes her to maintain a suit for
their diversion. It is argued that this court can take cognizance of no question which concerns alone the rights of a State
in her political or sovereign character. That to sustain the
suit she must have some proprietary interest which is affected
by the defendant. This question has been raised and discussed
in almost every case brought before us by a State, in virtue of
the original jurisdiction of the court. We do not find it necessary to make any decision on the point as applicable to the case
before us.

Oct. 1877.]

WISCONSIN

v. DULUTH.

Nor shall we address ourselves to the consideration of the
mass of conflicting evidence as to the effect of the canal on the
flow of the waters of Superior Bay.
We will first consider the affirmative defence already mentioned; for, if that be found to be true in point of fact, it will
preclude any such action by this court as the plaintiff has
prayed for.
It is to be observed, as preliminary to an examination of the
acts of the general government in the special matter before us,
that the whole system of river and lake and harbor improvements, whether on the sea-coast or on the lakes or the great
navigable rivers of the interior, has for years been mainly under
the control of that government, and that, whenever it has taken
charge of the matter, its right to an exclusive control has not
been denied. The operations of the government in thisregard
have been conducted by the bureau of engineering, as part of
the War Department, to which Congress has confided the execution of its wishes in all these matters. That department has
mapped out in suitable geographical divisions the work thus
imposed upon it, and placed these under the control of officers
who are in charge of them. These are again subdivided, so
that while the lake system, or, at all events, the western lake
system, is in the charge of one general superintendent, the separate works which at different places are conducted under him
have each another engineering officer, who has special charge
of those works.
For many years past, Congress has been in the habit of passing an annual appropriation bill, called the river and harbor bill,
devoted to works of this class exclusively; and in these bills it
appropriates specific sums to specific works, either already commenced and unfinished, or for new works thereby authorized,
or sums necessary for the safety and protection of works already
in existence. The money thus appropriated is expended, as we
have said, under the direction of the War Department. It cannot be necessary to say that when a public work of this character has been inaugurated or adopted by Congress, and its
management placed under the control of its officers, there exists
no right in any other branch of the government to forbid the
work, or to prescribe the manner in which it shall be conducted

WISCONSIN

v.

DULUTH.

[Sup. ot.

With these observations, we proceed to inquire what the
general government has done in the matter before us. As we
have already stated, it had for several years been at work under
appropriations by Congress, prior to the construction of the
canal at Duluth, in the effort to deepen the channel at the
mouth of the St. Louis River, but, we may infer, with little
success beyond preventing it from filling up. The rapid growth
of the city of Duluth, consequent upon its being made the terminus of the railroad, had attracted attention to the necessity
of harbor improvements at that point; and Congress had made
appropriations for a breakwater, which had been partially constructed outside of Mlinnesota Point in the main water of the
lake. But this had proved a failure; and it was seen that no
safe harbor for the vast commerce which was expected to be
created at that place by the North Pacific Railroad could be
secured in that mode. The city of Duluth and the railroad
company, impatient of relief from Congress, inaugurated, therefore, in 1871, the system of improving the inner harbor in the
waters of Superior Bay, and effecting an entrance into that
harbor by the canal across Minnesota Point. The canal was
completed sufficiently for use in that year, and the dredging of
the harbor commenced. The matter was in this condition
when Congress, by the river and harbor bill approved March
3, 1873, appropriated, "for the purpose of dredging out the bay
of Superior, from the natural entrance to the docks of Superior
and Duluth, and preserving both entrances from the lake
thereto, $100,000." The whole sheet of water, as we have
said, lying west of Minnesota Point, from one to two miles
wide. and extending from Duluth on the north shore to Superior City on the south, was Superior Bay. There was but one
entrance into that bay from the lake until the canal was made.
There were no docks at Duluth but those made by.the railroad
company and the city in the inner harbor at the upper end of
that bay. We see, then, at once, that Congress, recognizing
what had been done by private enterprise at Duluth, determined
to place that harbor and that canal under the same protection
and to provide for them in the same appropriation which covered the entrance and the harbor at Superior City. Hence,
$100,000 was appropriated as one item, for both entrances and

0et. 1877.]

WISCONSIN V. DULUTH.

for both improvements, to be administered by the same officers
as their judgment might dictate. The following extract from
the report of the officdr in charge of the matter shows what
was done under the appropriation : 1. Completing the pier at the natural entrance to Superior
Bay .......
..................
825,00u
. Dredging between the piers at the natural entrance.
. 11,340
3. Dredging from natural entrance to docks at Superior
City ......
.................
.
12,000
4. Repairing pier at Duluth entrance ...
........
.19,500
5. Dredging between piers at Duluth entrance and from
the piers to the docks of Duluth .
.......
. 16,400
This dredging was in the inner harbor, and the breakwater
-wasthenceforth abandoned as a government work. An estimate
made by the engineer department for the next year's appropriations, required for the maintenance of the Superior City
entrance, 010,000; for the Duluth entrance, $10,000; and for
dredging the bay of Superior, $100,000: and the appropriation
bill, among other items, had, for continuing the improvemeit
of the entrance to the main harbor of Duluth, $10,000.
Of this appropriation, the engineer in charge says that some
repairs to the piers (of the canal) were made, and 45,1711
cubic yards were dredged from the inside harbor.
By the act entitled "An Act making appropriations for the
repair, preservation, and completion of certain public works in
rivers and harbors, and for other purposes, approved March 8,
1875, there was ' appropriated, to be expended under the direction of the Secretary of War, for the repair, preservation, and
completion of the public works hereinafter named; viz., For
dredging the inside harbor of Duluth, $35,000.'"
In the report of the chief of engineers for the year 1875, it
is further stated: "The appropriation of $35,000; made in the river and harbor
bill, approved March 3,1875, restricts the application of that sum
to dredging the inside harbor, and during the present fiscal year it
is proposed to continue the dredging on the anchorage ground.
" The north pier of the canal, which was not built by the United
States, is in a very precarious state, owing to its being undermined.
voi. Vi.

25

WISCONSIN V. DULUTH.

[SuP. (A.

The estimated cost of the present urgent repairs is $6,300; and as
every year some repairs are necessary, an appropriation of $10,000
for this purpose is needed."
And in the act of Aug. 1, 1876, there is the following paragraph :-

"For the improvement of the harbor at Duluth, Minn., 815,000.
Said appropriation is mkde upon the express condition th:lit it shall
be without prejudice to either party in the suit now pending betwcen the State of Wisconsin, plaintiff, and the city of Duluth and
the Northern Pacific Railroad, defendants."
The hostility of Superior City and of the State of Wisconsin
could not avail to defeat the appropriation; but as this suit was
then pending, the clause that it should be without prejudice to
any one in the suit was inserted.
It was not needed. The Congress of the United States had
themselves before this, adopted, recognized, and taken charge
of this work. It had placed it on precisely the same ground,
and provided for it in the same paragraph, and out of the same
aggregate sum of money, that it did the work at the original
entrance, as it is aptly called, at the mouth of the river. It
had abandoned the breakvater as a failure, and as unnecessary,
in consequence of this new and more useful improvement.
The War Department had accepted the charge of the work,
had expended the appropriations made, and had now for several years made the same regular estimates for this work that
it did for all others under its control and management. And
though the State of Wisconsin had brought her suit in this
court to abate the work as a nuisance, and Congress was made
aware of the fact, it still, in 1876, made the usual appropriation, and the War Department still had the work in charge;
and the Congress cautiously said, this shall prejudice no one in
the suit, but we shall go on notwithstanding, and continue this
system of improvement.
We do not feel called upon to make an argument to prove
that these statutes of the Congress of the United States, and
these acts of the Executive Department in carrying those statutes into effect, constitute an adoption of the canal and harbor
improvement started by the city of Duluth, and a taking

Oct. 1877.]

WISCONSIN

v. DULUTH.

exclusive charge and control of it.' That they amount to the
declaration of the Federal government, that we here interpose
and assert our power. We take upon ourselves the burden of
this improvement, which properly belongs to us, and that hereafter this work for the public good is in our hands and subject
to our control.
If the merest recital of these acts of Congress, and of the
War Department under them, do not establish that proposition, we can have little hope of making it plain by elaborate
argument.
Nor can there be any doubt that such action is within the
constitutional power of Congress. It is a power which has
been exercised ever since the government was organized under
the Constitution. The only question ever raised has been how
far and under what circumstances the exercise of the power is
exclusive of its exercise by the States. And while this court
has maintained, in many cases, the right of the States to
authorize structures in and over the navigable waters of the
States, which may either impede or improve their navigation,
in tho absence of any action of the general government in the
same matter, the doctrine has been laid down with unvarying
uniformity, that when Congress has, by any expression of its
will, occupied the field, that action was conclusive of any right
to the contrary asserted under State authority. The adjudged
cases in this court on this point are numerous.
This subject was recently very fully considered in South
Carolina v. Georgia et al., 93 U. S. 4, and at this term in
Pound v. Turk, 95 id. 459. The doctrine was settled, however, long before this. The following cases are fully in point:
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Wilson et al. v. The Blackbird
Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; The Wheeling Bridge Case, 18
How. 421; Gilman v. Philadelphia,8 Wall. 713.
If, then, Congress, in the exercise of a lawful authority, has
adopted and is carrying out a system of harbor improvements
at Duluth, this court can have no lawful authority to forbid
the work. If that body sees fit to provide a way by which
the great commerce of the lakes, and the countries west 'of
them, even to Asia, shall be securely accommodated at the
harbor of Duluth by this short canal of three or four hundred

HUNTINGTON V. SAVINGS BANK.

[Sup. Ct

feet, can this court decree that it must for ever pursue the old
channel, by the natural outlet, over water too shallow for large
vessels, unsafe for small ones, and by a longer and much more
tedious route?
When Congress appropriates $10,000 to improve, protect,
and secure this canal, this court can have no power to require
it to be filled up and obstructed. While the engineering officers of the government are, under the authority of Congress,
doing all they can to make this canal useful to commerce, and
to keep it in good condition, this court can owe no duty to a
State which requires it to order the city of Duluth to destroy it.
These views show conclusively that the State of Wisconsin
is not entitled to the relief asked by her bill, and that it must,
therefore, be dismissed with costs.
So ordered.

Hu=TINGTON v. SAvin2s BATx.
1. A corporation created by statute can exercise no powers and has no rights,
except such as are expressly given or necessarily implied.
2. The act of Congress approved May 24, 1870 (16 Stat. 137), incorporating the
National Savings Bank of the District of Columbia, does not authorize
the creation of any corporate stock or capital. The profits of the institution, after deducting the necessary expenses of conducting it, inure wholly
to the benefit of the depositors, in dividends, or in a reserved surplus for their
greater security.
3. The bond filed pursuant to the eleventh section of that act is in no sense
capital owned by the bank or the corporators. It was required solely to
secure depositors and creditors.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This bill, for an account and a distribution of profits, was
filed by Fanny A. Huntington, administratrix, and Frank H.
Gassaway, administrator, of William S. Huntington, deceased,
against the National Savings Bank of the District of Columbia,
a corporation chartered by an act of Congress approved May
24, 1870 (16 Stat. 137), the provisions of which are stated in
the opinion of the court.
Shortly after the passage of the act, Huntington, and fifteen

