40ct.

1877.]

RAILROAD Co. v. RICHMOND.

RAILROAD CONTPAY V. RICHMOD.
L The ordinance of the council of the city of Richmond, passed Sept. 8, 1873,
that "no car, engine, carriage, or other vehicle of any kind belonging to or
used by the Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad Company
shall be drawn or propelled by steam upon that part of their railroad or
railway track on Broad Street, east of Belvidere Street, in said city," does
not impair any vested right of the company, under its charter, granted Feb.
25, 1834, nor deprive it of its property without due process of law, nor deny
it the equal protection of the laws.
2. The appropriate regulation of the use of property is not "taking" it, within
the meaning of the constitutional prohibition.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad Company was incorporated Feb. 25, 1834, by the legislature of the
State of Virginia, "for the purpose of making a railroad from
some point within the corporation of Richmond, to be approved
by the common council, to some point within the corporation of
Fredericksburg" (charter, sect. 1), and was authorized (sect. 24)
"to place on the railroad constructed ...all machines, wagons,
vehicles, carriages, and teams of any description whatsoever, ...
necessary or proper for the purposes of transportation." It was
required at all times to transport persons and property from one
point to another along the line of its road, when completed,
upon payment or tender of the tolls allowed by the charter.
Sect. 26.
At the time of the incorporation of the company, locomotive
engines were in use within the State of Virginia, upon a railroad
extending from the Roanoke to Petersburg; and the city of
Richmond was a municipal corporation, having power "to make
and establish such by-laws, rules, and ordinances, not contrary
to the Constitution or laws of the-Commonwealth, as shall...
be thought necessary for the good ordering and government of
such persons as shall from time to time reside within the limits
of said city or corporation, or shall be concerned in interest
therein." 1 Hening Stat. 46, sect. 2.
On the 22d of December, 1834, the president and directors
of the railroad company passed the following preamble and

resolution: -

RAILROAD CO. v. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct

"Whereas, by the act incorporating this company, it is requisite
that the point at which the railroad terminates within the corporation of Richmond should be approved by the common council, and
it appears to the board most expedient to conduct the same from
the Richmond turnpike along H [Broad] Street to a point at or
near the intersection of the said street and Eighth Street, and for
the present to terminate the same by suitable connections with the
contemplated warehouses and workshops of the company on lots
Nos. 477 and 478, purchased by them from John Heth: Therefore,
be it
"1Resolved, that the approbation of the common council be
requested to the above plan."
On the 23d of the same month, the common council of the
city passed the following: -"Whereas, by a resolution of the president and directors of the
Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad Company, submitted to the common council, it appears it is deemed most expedient by the said president and directors to conduct the said railroad
from the Richmond turnpike along H [Broad] Street to a point at
or near the intersection of the said street and Eighth Street, and for
the present to terminate the same by suitable connections with the
contemplated warehouses and workshops of the company on lots
Nos. 477 and 478, purchased by them from John Heth.
"-Resolved, that the common council do approve the proposed
location of the said railroad and the present termination of the same,
as described in the foregoing resolution, and authorize the prosecution of the said work within the limits of the city on the above location : Provided, that in locating the said railroad no injury shall be
done to the water-pipes now laid in and along said street: Provided,
that the corporation of Richmond shall not be considered as hereby
parting with any power or chartered privilege not necessary to the
railroad company for constructing the said railroad, and connecting
the same with the depot of said company within the limits of the
city."
The railroad company then proceeded with the construction
of its road, which was completed and ready for use within the
city on the 15th of February, 1836. Shortly before that day, a
meeting was held by some of the residents of Shockhoe Hill, at
which resolutions were passed, declaring that in the opinion of
the meeting the company should not be permitted to use loco-

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. RICHIOND.

motive power for propelling cars within the city, and that it
"should be required to construct and keep in good order a free
access and passing at all points from the one side of H [Broadj
Street to the other." These resolutions were presented to the
council, and referred to the street commissioners with instructions to ascertain and report what injury had been done to the
street by laying down the railroad in it, and also what were the
future plans of the company, so far as they related to the use of
the road, and the probable result to the citizens resident and
owning property on the street, by the execution of the plans
and operations of the company.
This action of the council was communicated to the company
on the day it commenced the business of transportation over
the road; and, in reply, the president and directors made a statement, of which the following is part: "The railroad having been made along H [Broad] Street from a
point approved by the common council, the president and directors,
under power given by the act of incorporation, have purchased and
placed on the railroad a locomotive engine and other machines
proper for the purposes of transportation. Their plan, so far as the
same relates to travel on said road on H [Broad] Street, is to have
the cars drawn by a locomotive. It has occurred to them that it
might not be prudent for the locomotive to go so fast within the
corporation as it will after leaving the city, and accordingly they
have adopted a resolution directing their engineer not to suffer the
locomotive, while in the city, to proceed at a rate exceeding three
miles per hour."
Then follows a statement of the plan they had adopted for
facilitating the crossing of the track in the street, and the
reasons for it.
Upon the receipt of this communication from the company,
the council adopted resolutions instructing the commissioners
of streets to inquire into the expediency of paving H [Broad]
Street, and to ascertain from the company whether they would
pay part of the expense attending it. After a correspondence
between the commissioners of streets and the committee of the
company, showing the views of each side, the city surveyor was
instructed by the commissioners of streets "to prepare and
submit a plan, the most judicious to be adopted, for paving H

RAILROAD

CO. v. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

[Broad] Street, . . . having a regard as well to the just rights

and interests of the city as to those of the railroad company in
the use of said street." The city surveyor accordingly submitted a report, in which, after setting forth the inconveniences
which would result to the railroad company by "a uniform
pavement on a level with the top of the plates of the railroad,"
submitted a plan "as a compromise of interests." This plan
was finally adopted by both parties and the work done, the railroad company, by arrangement, paying one-third the expense.
That ended all action upon the resolutions adopted at the
meeting of residents on Shockhoe Hill. The amount paid by
-therailroad company towards the paving was near $7,000.
At different times after this, applications were made to the
,council to prohibit the use of locomotives in the street; but the
,council, while asserting its right to do so, declined to take action
in the matter, upon the ground that it was not expedient.
Ordinances were, however, passed regulating the speed of trains
and providing against standing cars in the street.
On the 24th of May, 1870, an amendment was made to the
charter of the city, and the council empowered "to determine
and designate the route and grade of any railroad to be laid in
said city, and to restrain and regulate the rate of speed of locomotives, engines, and cars upon the railroad within the said
city, and . . . exclude the said engines and cars, if they pleased,

provided no contract be thereby violated." Acts of 1869-70,
p. 125.
On the 8th of September, 1873, after the main line of the
railroad had been changed to another route, and negotiations
for the sale of the depot property by the company to the city
had failed, the council passed an ordinance, as follows: "SECT. 3. That on and after the first day of January, 1874, nc
,car, engine, carriage, or other vehicle of any kind belonging to or
used by the Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad
Company, shall be drawn or propelled by steam upon that part of
their railroad or railway track on Broad Street east of Belvidere
Street in said city. The penalty for failing to comply with this sec-tion shall be a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for
.each and every offence, to be recovered before the police justice of
the city of Richmond."

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. v. RIc]mxoND.

On the 2d of January, 1874, this action was commenced to
recover the penalty incurred under that ordinance for running
a locomotive propelled by steam in the street. There was no
dispute as to the facts; but the defence relied upon was, that
the ordinance was unconstitutional and void, because,-1, It
impaired the obligations of the contract contained in the charter
of the company, which, as was claimed, granted to the company
the right to propel its cars by steam, as well within the city as
without; 2, it deprived the company of its property without
due process of law; and, 3, it denied the company the equal
protection of the laws.
This defence having been overruled, and judgment given
against the company by the police justice, the case was taken
by writ of error, first, to the Circuit Court of the city, and,
second, to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State, in
both of which courts the judgment below was affirmed. The
judgment of the Court of Appeals is now here for review,
under sect. 709 of the Revised Statutes, and the errors assigned
present the same questions that were relied upon in defence
below.
Mr. Conway Robinson and Mr. Leigh Robinson for the plaintiff in error.
1. The ordinance of the city council of Richmond, prohibiting the use of locomotive engines on the railroad of the plaintiff
in error on Broad Street impairs the obligation of the contract
contained in the charter of the company granted by the legislature of the State of Virginia. Cooley, Const. Lim. 87, 88, 274,
279; People v. Draper, 15 N. Y. 532; Trustees of Dartmouth
College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 519; Planters' Bank v. Sharp,
6 How. 301 ; Jiletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87 ; Terrett v. Taylor,
9 id. 43; New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 id. 164; Gordon & Chester v.
Appeal Tax Court, 3 How. 133; State Bank of Ohio v. Knoop,
16 id. 369; City of Richmond v. Richmond & Danville Railroad
Co., 21 Gratt. (Va.) 604; State v. Noyes, 47 Me. 189; O' Connor
v. Pittsburgh,18 Pa. St. 187; James Biver &. Kanawha Canal Co.
v. Anderson et al., 12 Leigh (Va.), 278; McLauchlin v. Railroad
Co., 5 Rich. (S. C.) 596 ; Hammersmith & City Railway Co. v.
Brand, 4 Law Rep. H. L. 738; Enfield Tollbridge Co. v. Hartford & New Haven Railroad Co., 17 Conn. 454; Black v. Phila-

526

RAILROAD CO. V. RICHMOND.

[Sup. Ct.

delphia & Beading Railroad Co., 58 Pa. St. 249; Vauqhan v.
Taff Vale Railway CJo., 5 H. & N. 678; AlBercer v. Pittsburg,
Fort Wayne, & Chicago Railroad Co., and Commonwealth v.
Same, 36 Pa. St. 99; _New Jersey Railroad & Transportation
Co. v. Jersey City, 29 N. J. L. 170.
To justify the exercise, even by the State, of any such police
power, so as to impair the franchise conferred by her legislative
contract, there must be not only compensation nmade to the
company, but also unquestionable proof that its exercise is
necessary for the protection of the lives and property of its citizen;3 from certain and imminent danger. Black v. 1-'hiladelphia
Reading Railroad Co., 58 Pa. St. 249; Drake v. Hudson River
Railroad Co., 7 Barb. (N. Y.) 508; Commonwealth v. Erie &
North. East Railroad Co., 27 Pa. St. 339; lMlif/in v. Railroad
Company, 16 Pa. St. 182; PhiladelphiaJ Trenton -RailroadCo.,
6 Whart. (Pa.) 25; Bell v. Ohio & Pennsylvania Railroad
Co., 25 Pa. St. 161; Lexington & Ohio Railroad Co. v. Applegate, 8 Dana (Ky.), 289; State v. Noyes, 47 Me. 189; Uentz
v. Long Island Railroad Co., 13 Barb. (N. Y.) 646; Bailey v.
Philadelphia,&c. Railroad Co., 4 Harr. (Del.) 389; Pingry v.
ashburn, 1 Aik. (Vt.) 264; Miller v. New York J&Erie Railroad Co., 21 Barb. (N. Y.) 513; People v. Jackson & "Michigan
Plank Road Co., 9 Mich. 285; Benson v. The Mlayor, &c., 10
Barb. (N. Y.) 223.
2. That ordinance also impairs the obligation of the contract
between the city and the company. Mercer v. Pittsburg, Purt
Wayne, J' Chicago -RailroadCJo., 36 Pa. St. 99; State v. Noyes,
47 Mle. 189.
3. The ordinance is unconstitutional and void, because, assuming to act under authority of the State, the council thereby
"denies " to the plaintiff in error that " equal protection of the
laws" guaranteed to it in the Fourteenth Amendment of the
Constitution of the United States. Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch,
87; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386; Booth v. JVoodburq, 32 Conn.
118,; Lin Sing v. lVashburn, 20 Cal. 534; Holden v. James, 11
Mass. 396; Davison v. Johonnot, 7 AMetc. (Mass.) 393; Bull v.
Conroe, 13 Wis. 233; Valley's Heirsv. Kfennedy, 2 Yerg. ('Tenn.)
554; The King v. Pease, 1 Nev. & M. 690; 4 Barn. & Adol 30;
Vaughan v. Taff Vale Railway Co., 5 H. & N. 678; Cleveland &

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. RICHMOND.'

PittsburgRailroad Co. v. Speer, 56 Pa. St. 825; Clark v. Mayori
Pc. of ,Syracuse, 13 Barb. (N. Y.) 32.
Mr.A. 111. Keiley, contra.
AIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The questions for determination in this case are:1. Does the municipal legislation complained of impair the
vested rights of the company under its charter?
In answering this question, it becomes necessary to determine
at the outset what the rights of the company, secured by its
charter and affected by the ordinance in dispute, actually are.
The right is granted the company to construct a railroad "from
some point within the corporation of Richmond. to be approved
by the common council." No definite point is fixed by the
charter. That is left to the discretion of the company, subject
only to the approval of the city. The power to approve certainly implies the power to reject one location and accept another; and this necessarily carries with it the further power to
reserve such governmental control over the company in respect
to the road, when built within the city to the point approved,
as may seem to be necessary. The absolute grant of the charter is satisfied if the road is built within the city for any distance, by any route, or to any point. The company, however,
desired to pass through Broad Street, and, for the present, to
terminate the road upon the lots purchased for shops and warehouses, and requested the city to approve that location. This
the city was willing to do, upon condition that it should not be
considered as thereby parting with any power or chartered
privilege not necessary to the company for constructing its road
or connecting it with the depot. These terms were proposed to
the company, and accepted. At that time the city was invested
with all the powers "necessary for the good ordering and
government" of persons and property within its jurisdiction.
By the conditions imposed, these powers were all reserved,
except to the extent of permitting the company to construct its
road upon the route designated, and connect it with the depot.
All the usual and ordinary powers of city governments over the
road when constructed, and over the company in respect to its

RAILROAD CO. V. RICHMOND.

(Sup. Ct.

use, were expressly retained. The company, therefore, occupied Broad Street upon the same terms and conditions it
would if the charter had located the route of the road within
the city, but, in terms, subjected the company to the government
of the city in respect to the use of the road when constructed.
Nothing has been done since to change the rights of the
parties. It is true that an attempt was made by the residents
on Sliockhoe Hill to induce the council to prohibit the use of
locomotives within the city, and to require the company to so
construct the road within Broad Street as to facilitate the
crossing of the track; but all parties seemed to be satisfied
then with the proposition of the company to run its engines
slowly and with care in the city, and its liberal contribution
towards the expense of paving the street. There is nowhere
in the proceedings an indication of a relinquishment by the
city of its governmental dontrol over the company or its property. The "compromise of interests" proposed related alone
to the plan of the pavement.
It remains only to consider whether the ordinance complained
of is a legitimate exercise of the power of a city government.
It certainly comes within the express authority conferred by the
amendment to the city charter adopted in 1870; and that, in
our opinion, is no more than existed by implication before.
The power to govern implies the power to ordain and establish
suitable police regulations; and that, it has often been decided,
authorizes municipal corporations to prohibit the use of locomotives in the public streets, when such action does not interfere
with vested rights. Donnaher v. iTe State, 8 Smed. & M.
(Miss.) 649; Whitson v. The City of Pranclin, 34 Ind. 392.
Such prohibitions clearly rest upon the maxim sic utere tuo
ut alienum non lcedas, which lies at the foundation of the police
power; and it was not seriously contended upon the argument
that they did not come within the legitimate scope of municipal
government, in the absence of legislative restriction upon the
powers of the municipality to that effect. It is not for us to
determine in this case whether the power has been judiciously
exercised. Our duty is at an end if we find that it exists. The
judgment of the court below is final as to the reasonableness of
the action of the council.

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD 00. V. RICHMOND.

We conclude, therefore, that the ordinance does not impair
any vested right conferred upon the company by its charter.
2. Does it deprive the company of its property without due
process of law?
This question is substantially disposed of by what has already
been said, as the claim of the company is based entirely upon
the assumption of a vested right, under its charter, to operate its
road by steam, both within and without the city, which we have
endeavored to show is not true. All property within the city is
subject to the legitimate control of the government, unless
protected by "contract rights," which is not the case here.
Appropriate regulation of the use of property is not "taking"
property, within the meaning of the constitutional prohibition.
3. Does it deny the company the equal protection of the
laws?
The claim is, that, as this company is alone named in the
ordinance, the operation of the ordinance is special only, and,
therefore, invalid. No other person or corporation has the
right to run locomotives in Broad Street. Consequently, no
other person or corporation is or can be in like situation, except
with the consent of the city. On this account, the ordinance,
while apparently limited in its operation, is in effect general, as
it applies to all who can do what is prohibited. Other railroad
companies may occupy other streets and use locomotives there,
but other streets may not be situated like Broad Street, neither
may there be the same reasons why steam transportation should
be excluded from them. All laws should be general in their
operation, but all places within the same city do not necessarily
require the same local regulation. While locomotives may with
very great propriety be excluded from one street, or even from
one part of a street, it would be sometimes unreasonable to exclude them from all. It is the special duty of the city authorities to make the necessary discriminations in this particular.
On the whole, we see no error in the record, and the
judgment is
MR.

JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

"VOL T

