.960

UNITED STATES V. SIDIDIONS.

[Sup. Ct.

Even suppose that it is so, still it is insisted by the petitioner,
that, inasmuch as the order of the post commander stopping
the work of hauling the wood cut within the reservation was
overruled by the commanding general, he, the appellant, is
entitled to recover for the damage which he suffered by his
teams remaining idle for thirteen days; but the court is not
able to sustain that proposition, as it appears that he delivered
the wood under the contract, collected and received the contract
price for the same, and gave receipts in full for the same as a
transaction completed in pursuance of the written contract set
forth in the petition. Competent evidence of such acts is sufficient to prove an accord and satisfaction, and they show that
there is no error in the record.
J'udgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

S

m ONS.

1. An indictment under sect. 3266 of the Revised Statutes, charging the defend.
ant with causing or procuring some other person to use a still, boiler, or other
vessel, for the purpose of distilling, within the intent and meaning of the
internal revenue laws of the United States, is bad, unless it states the name
of such other person, or avers that the same is unknown.
2. An averment that such use was "in a certain building and on certain premises
where
negar was manufactured and produced" is not sufficient, as it does
not state that vinegar was manufactured or produced there at the time the
still and other vessels were used for the purpose of distilling.
. It is not necessary to aver that the spirits distilled were alcoholic. The allegation that the vessels were used "for the purpose of distilling, within the
intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United States,"
sufficiently advises the accused of the nature of the offence charged.
4. The averment, that the defendant caused and procured the stills and other
vessels to be used, implies, with sufficient certainty, that they were in fact
used; and the nature of the means whereby their unlawful use was procured
is matter of evidence to establish the imputed intent, and not of allegation
in the indictment.
. In an indictment under sect. 3281 of the Revised Statutes, charging that the
defendant knowingly and unlawfully engaged in and carried on the business
of a distiller, within the meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United
States, with the intent to defraud the United States of the tax on spirits
distilled by him, it is not necessary to state the particular means by which
the fraud was effected. The intent being charged, the means are matters of
evidence for the consideration of the jury

O0ct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. SIDIONS.

CERTIFICATE of division between the judges of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New

York.
Simmons was indicted in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of New York for violating sects.
8258, 3259, 3266, and 3281 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. The indictment contained four counts, the
second of which was drawn under sect. 3266, and the fourth
under sect. 3281. It is as to the sufficiency of these counts that
the case comes here on certificate of division in opinion.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The Solicitor-General, for the United States, cited United
States v. Mills, 7 Pet. 138; United States v. Cook, 17 Wall.
168; United States v. Cruikshanlk et al., 92 U. S. 542.
Mr. Benjamin F. Tracy, for the defendant, cited Eipe v.
Becker, 1 Den. (N. Y.) 568; United States v. Clark,1 Gall. 497;
Whart. Crim. Law, 285, 294, 300,304, 366, 369, 372, 382, 2705 ;
1 Arclb. Crim. Pr. & P1. 86, note 2; id. 88; United States v.
Mills, 7 Pet. 138; People v. Wilbu'r, 4 Park (N. Y.), Or. 19,
Jiwright v. People, 21 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 383; People v. Allen,
5 Den. (N. Y.) 76; 1 Hale, P. C. 517, 526, 535; United States
v. Pond,2 Curt. 265; 1 Bishop, Crim. Proc. 141, 372; United
States v. Bentilini, 15 Int. Rev. Ree. 32; United States v. Howard, 1 Sawyer, 507; United States v. Staats, 8 How. 41; United
States v. Reed, 1 Low. 232; United States v. Cruikshank et al.,
Q2 U. S. 542; People v. Gaige, Green, Cr. L. R. 524; United
States v. Watkins, 3 Cranch C. C. 441; People v. Gates, 13
Wend. (N. Y.) 311; United States v. Thomas, 4 Ben. 370;
State v. Jackson, 39 Conn. 299; United States v. claflin, 13
Blatchf. 178; The -Emily,9 Wheat. 381; United States v. Gooding, 12 id. 460; Fillinger v. The People, 15 Abb. (N. Y.) Pr.
128; United States v. Fox, 1 Low. 199.
MR. JUSTICE HA.nLx delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon an indictment, charging violations of certain provisions
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, relating to distilled spirits, Simmons was found guilty as charged in each
count, and moved in arrest of judgment. The first and third
counts were held to be bad, and the case is here upon a state-

UNITED STATES V. SIMMONS.

[Sup. Ot,

ment of facts and a certificate of division in opinion upon several
questions involving the sufficiency of the second and fourth
counts.
The second count, pursuing the words of sect. 3266 of the
Revised Statutes, charges that the defendant "did knowingly
and unlawfully cause and procure to be used a still, boiler, and
other vessel, for the purpose of distilling, within the intent and
meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United States, in
a certain building and on certain premises where vinegar was
manufactured and produced, against the peace of the United
States and their dignity, and against the form of the statute of
the said United States in such case made and provided."
Under this count we are asked the following questions: First,
whether it is sufficient, in an indictment drawn under that portion of the section which prohibits the use of a still, boiler, or
other vessel, for the purpose of distilling, in any building or on
premises where vinegar is manufactured or produced, to charge
the offence in the words of the statute. Second, whether the
omission of an averment that the distilling there referred to
was of alcoholic spirits is a valid objection to the count.
The first question is answered in the negative.
Where the offence is purely statutory, having no relation t,
the common law, it is, "as a general rule, sufficient in the indictment to charge the defendant with acts coming fully within
the statutory description, in the substantial words of the statute, without any further expansion of the matter." 1 Bishop,
Crim. Proc., sect. 611, and authorities there cited. But to this
general rule there is the qualification, fundamental in the law
of criminal procedure, that the accused must be apprised by the
indictment, with reasonable certainty, of the nature of the
accusation against him, to the end that he may prepare his
defence, and plead the judgment as a bar to any subsequent
prosecution for the same offence. An indictment not so framed
is defective, although it may follow the language of the statute.
Tested by these rules, the second count is insufficient. Since
the defendant was not charged with using the still, boiler, and
other vessels himself, but only with causing and procuring
some one else to use them, the name of that person should have
been given. It was neither impracticable nor unreasonably

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. SMIMONS.

difficult to have done so. If the name of such person was unknown to the grand jurors, that fact should have been stated
in the indictment.
Nor does it sufficiently appear that vinegar was manufactured
or produced in the building and on the premises referred to at
the time the still and other vessels were used for the purpose
of distilling. It is consistent with the averments that the
vinegar had been manufactured or produced long prior to the
date when the alleged distilling occurred. The two facts must
coexist, in order to constitute the offence described in the
statute.
In reference to the second question, we do not think it essential to aver in terms that the spirits distilled were alcoholic.
In view of the statutory definition of distilling, the allegation
that the vessels were used "for the purpose of distilling, within
the intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of the
United States," was distinct and broad enough to advise the
accused of the nature of the offence charged.
Counsel for the accused contend that the indictment does
not show that the stills and other vessels were used for distilling. This objection cannot be sustained. The averment, that
the defendant caused and procured them to be used, implies,
with sufficient certainty, that they were in fact used. United
States v. 30_ils, 7 Pet. 138.
Nor was it necessary, as argued by counsel for the accusedr
to set forth the special means employed to effect the alleged
unlawful procurement. It is laid down as a general rule, that
"in an indictment for soliciting or inciting to the commission
of a crime, or for aiding or assisting in the commission of it, it
is not necessary to state the particulars of the incitement or
solicitation, or of the aid or assistance." 2 Wharton, sect. 1281 ;
United States v. aooding, 12 Wheat. 460. The nature of the
means whereby the unlawful use of the still and other vessels
was procured is matter of evidence to establish the imputed
intent, and not of allegation in the indictment.
The fourth count is based upon sect. 3281 of the Revised
Statutes, and charges that the defendant "did knowingly andunlawfully engage in and carry on the business of a distiller,
within the intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of,

UNITED STATES V. SIMMONS.

[Sup. ot.

the United States, with the intent to defraud the United States
of the tax on the spirits distilled by him, against the peace," &c.
This count seems to us sufficient to authorize judgment
thereon. It was not necessary to state in the indictment the
particular means by which the United States was to be defrauded of the tax. The defendant is entitled to a formal and
substantial statement of the grounds upon which he is questioned, but not to such strictness in averment as might defeat
the ends of justice. The intent to defraud the United States
is of the very essence of the offence ; and its existence in
connection with the business of distilling being distinctly
charged, must be established by satisfactory evidence. Such
intent may, however, be manifested by so many acts upon the
part of the accused, covering such a long period of time, as to
render it difficult, if not wholly impracticable, to aver, with
any degree of certainty, all the essential facts from which it
may be fairly inferred.
"The means of effecting the criminal intent," says Mr. Wharton, "or the circumstances evincive of the design with which the
act was done, are considered to be matters of evidence to go to
the jury to demonstrate the intent, and not necessary to be
incorporated in an indictment." 1 Wharton, sect. 292; United
States v. Gooding, supra. To the same effect is the opinion of
Mr. Justice Miller in the case of United States v. Ulrici, 3 Dill.
585.
But it is contended that the fourth count contains no averment of an unlawful act, but only of an intent to defraud the
United States of the tax on spirits; and that it is not competent for Congress to punish a mere intent, however fraudulent,
unaccompanied by an unlawful act. We do not think the
indictment justly liable to this objection.
The internal revenue laws define the business of a distiller.
Congress has the constitutional power to prescribe, as it has
done, rules and regulations, in conformity to which that business may be lawfully carried on. But the citizen may not
engage in or carry on such business with the intent to defraud
the government of the tax on spirits distilled by him. If he
does, he thereby commits the offence charged in the count under
consideration, and is liable to the punishment prescribed by

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. SIMMLIONS.

statute. But such punishment is not inflicted merely or solely
because of the intent to defraud. It is the act of engaging in
the distillation of spirits, combined with that intent, which
constitutes the offence. A question somewhat analogous arose
in The Ermil1 , 9 Wheat. 381. That was an information, founded
upon' the statutes prohibiting the slave-trade. Under those
statutes, a vessel fitted out by any citizen or resident of the
United States, for the purpose of carrying on any trade or
traffic in slaves, contrary to the provisions of the statutes, &c.,
was subject to forfeiture. This court said: "The object in
view, by the section of the law under consideration, was to prevent the preparation of vessels in our own ports which were
intended for the slave-trade. Hence is connected with this
preparation, whether it consists in building, fitting, equipping,
or loading, the purpose for which the act is done. The law
looks at the intention, and furnishes authority to take from the
offender the means designed for the preparation of the mischief.
This is not punishing the intention merely; it is the preparation of the vessel and the purpose for which she is to be employed that constitutes the offence, and draws after it the penalty
of forfeiture. . . . The intention or purpose for which the vessel is fitting must be made out, so as to leave no reasonable
doubt as to the object. This is a matter of proof, and, generally speaking, to be collected from the kind of preparation that
has been made." In the subsequent case of United States v
Gooding, supra, which was a prosecution for being engaged in
the slave-trade contrary to the prohibitions of the act of 1818,.
the court said that the statute imputed no guilt to any particulars of the equipment of the vessel, but to the act of fitting out
the vessel, with the illegal intent to engage in the prohibited
traffic; that it was "the act, combined with the intent, and
not either separately, which is punishable."
These decisions furnish rules applicable to the case under
consideration. The statute does not prescribe a punishment
simply for the intent to defraud the United States of the
tax on spirits distilled, but for the act of engaging in and
carrying on the business of a distiller with that intent. The
act and the fraudulent intent together constitute the offence.
That Congress, as a means of protecting the revenue and of

UNITED STATES V. VAN AUKEN.

[Sup. Ct.

securing taxes rightfully due the government, may declare
such an act, when accompanied by such an intent, to be a
public offence, and prescribe a punishment therefor, we do not
doubt.
The views here expressed furnish a sufficient answer to the
questions propounded under the fourth count.
It will therefore be certified, as the opinion of this court,
on the points of division, -1.
That the second count of the
indictment is insufficient to authorize a judgment thereon.
2. That the fourth count is sufficient to authorize judgment to
be pronounced thereon against the defendant; and it is
So ordered.

UNITED STATES V. VAN AUKEN.
tnder the second section of the act of Congress approved July 17, 1862 (lz
Stat. 692), which declares that "no private corporation, banking association,
firm, or individual shall make, issue, circulate, or pay out any note, check.
memorandum, token, or other obligation, for a less sum than one dollar,
intended to circulate as money, or to be received or used in lieu of lawful
money of the United States," A. was indicted for circulating obligations in
the following form: "BANGOR, M ten., Aug. 15, 1874.
"The Bangor Furnace Company will pay the bearer, on demand, fifty cents, in goods,
at their store, in Bangor, Mich.
(Signed)
"A. B. Iloemi, Pres.
"C,t s. D. RHoDEH, Treas."
The indictment charged that lie intended them to
be received and used in lieu of lawful money of
that, as the obligations were payable in goods and
of fifty cents was named merely as the liit of the
able, the indictment was bad on demurrer.

circulate as money, and to
the United States. Held,
not in money, and the sum
value of the goods demand.

CERTIFICATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western District
of Michigan.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The Attorney- General and Mr. Assistant-Altorney-General
Smith for the United States.
Mr. George TV. Lawton, contra.

