FRANCIS V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. ot

FRANCIs V. UNITED STATES.
A contract entered into between A. and the Quartermaster's Department of the
Army, for the delivery of a number of cords of wood at a post on a military
reservation, stipulated that no traders, sutlers, contractors, civilians, or others
should be allowed to cut timber about said post, until all required by the
United States for certain purposes was secured. The contractor cut a part
of the wood on the reservation, when he was directed by the post commander
to cut outside the reservation, which he did. Having perfoimed his contract,
be was paid in full for all the wood delivered thereunder. Held, that the
contract prohibited him from cutting wood within the reservation, and that
lie cannot recover damages for any expense he incurred by reason of being
compelled to cut and haul, from a point outside the reservation, the wood
necessary to complete his contract.

from the Court of Claims.
This suit was brought by Charles Francis, for the use ot
Nathan Myrick, to recover damages on account of extra expenses incurred in the performance of a contract entered into,
May 8, 1869, between Francis and the chief quartermaster of
the military department of Dakota, for the delivery by the
former, on or before Jan. 15, 1870, of a number of cords of
wood at certain military posts; among others, at Fort Ransom,
Dakota Territory, one thousand cords. The contract "stipulated and agreed that no traders, sutlers, contractors, civilians,
or others should be allowed to cut timber about the post of
Fort Ransom, D. T., until all required by the United States,
for certain purposes herein specified, should have been secured."
This stipulation was inserted pursuant to General Order No.
18, which is as follows:APPEAL

"HEADQUARTERS

DEPARTMENT OF DAKOTA,

" SAINT PAUL, MIINN., M:iy 12, 1868.

"Post commanders in this department will assume control of all
timber, wood, hay, and grazing upon the public lands adjacent to

their respective posts, whi,'h are required for the public use thereat.
Notice of the reservation of the timber, wood, &c., thus nmnie, will
be thoroughly circulated in the manner best calculated to infbrm all
who are or mnmy become interested, in order to avoid all disputes of
rights which might arise through ignorance.
"On all such reservations sutlers, traders, and civilians generally

Oct. 1877.]

FRANCIS V. UNITED STATES.

will not be allowed to cut timber, wood, nor hay, nor be allowed to
graze animals, until the wants of the garrison are supplied for the
year.
"By command of Brevet Major-General Terry.
"0 . D. GREE'E,
"Assistant-Adjutant- General."
The Court of Claims found that the post of Fort Ransom was
situated on the public domain, surrounded by the public lands of
the United States, and had, by an order from the head-quarters of
the department of Dakota, dated May 18, 1869, which was approved by the Secretary of War and by the President Jan. 11,
1870, been declared a military reservation by that name, with the
following boundaries: "The initial point is eight miles due south
of the south-west angle of the fort; thence due east five miles;
thence due north ten miles; thence due west ten miles; thence
due south ten miles; thence due east five miles to the initial
point."
That, prior to June 1, 1869, but near that time, the claimant
commenced cutting wood on said reservation, at a point about
a mile and a half from the fort, and had cut about forty
cords, when he was ordered by the post commander to desist,
and remove beyond the lines of the reservation. He then removed to a point within them, about four miles from the fort,
and there cut three hundred and ten cords, when the post commander ordered him to stop cutting at that place, move off the
reservation, and not to cut any wood within the lines thereof,
but to cut wherever he pleased outside of them. The contractor then and there claimed the right, under his contract, to
cut on the reservation; which claim the post commander
refused to recognize. Thereupon, he cut the remaining six
hundred and fifty cords required to be furnished by him at a
point about seven miles from the fort, and from half a mile to
a mile beyond the lines of the reservation.
That, in September, 1869, the claimant commenced hauling
to the fort the wood which he had cut on the reservation at a
point four miles from the fort, when the post commander
stopped the work, and would not permit him to haul the wood,
because it had been cut within the lines of the reservation, in
disobedience of positive orders.

FRANCIS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

The claimant appealed to General Hancock, who overruled
the post commander, decided that the contractor had a right to
cut wood on the reservation, and to haul what had been so cut.
By reason of the order of the post commander, nine teams of
the claimant remained idle thirteen days, to his expense of
$468 ; but it does not appear that he might not have employed
them during that time in hauling the wood cut off the reservation, which he was not prohibited from moving.
That there was sufficient wood on the reservation for the
known wants of the post; and the claimant could have obtained, either at or near the place where he cut the first forty
cords, or at the place where he cut the three hundred and ten
cords, the whole quantity required by the contract, had he not
been interfered with by the orders of the post commander.
That, by reason of said orders, and by being compelled
thereby to cut the remaining quantity of wood at greater distances from the fort, he was subjected to an additional expense
of $2,132, in hauling the same to the place of delivery.
That it does not appear how much more expense, if any, the
claimant was subjected to by reason of cutting the six hundred and fifty cords outside of the reservation, over and above
what he would have incurred had he been permitted to cut
them within it, at the place where he cut the three hundred
and ten cords, and from which he was ordered away by the post
commander.
That the claimant has been paid for one thousand and three
cords of wood, delivered under the contract, the money therefor
having been paid at different times, and a receipt therefor
given in full for the quantity delivered.
On the foregoing facts, the court concluded, as a matter of
law, that the claimant was not entitled to recover, and it dismissed his petition. He thereupon appealed to this court.
Mr. John B. Sanborn for the appellant.
The Solicitor-General, contra.
MR. JUSTICE, CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Post commanders in the military department where the
present controversy arose were ordered to assume control of all
timber, wood, hay, and grazing upon the public lands adjacent

3Oct. 1877.]

FRANCIS v. UNITED STATES.

to their respective posts, to the extent that the same were there
required for the public use.
Supplies for the post were usually obtained by contract; and
it appears that a contract was made between the petitioner and
the quartermaster of the department, by which the former
agreed to deliver and pile, in the wood-yard of the post, one
thousand cords, more or less, of good, sound, merchantable oakwood, to be delivered at the times specified, subject to such
inspection as the quartermaster should deem necessary. Superadded to that is also the stipulation that no trader, sutler, contractor, or civilian will be allowed to cut timber about the post;
and it appears that thu post referred to is situated on the public
domain, and that it was surrounded by the public lands.
Before the work was commenced, the contractor executed a
power of attorney to the person for whose use the suit is
brought; and it appears that the attorney did all the work
under the contract as agent for and in the name of the contractor.
Pursuant to the contract, due deliveries were made by the
attorney, to the amount of one thousand and three cords of
wood; for which he was paid at different times, he receipting
for the same, as attorney-in-fact of the contractor, in full for
the quantity delivered. Payment in full for all that was deliv,ered is established by the findings; but the petitioner insists
that the United States broke the contract, by not allowing the
attorney to cut the wood within the defined limits of the post;
that he was refused that privilege; and that he was compelled
to cut it at a greater distance from the place of delivery, at an
expense of $2,132 beyond what it would have cost if he had
been allowed to cut it within the military reservation, as he
had a right to do under the contract, for which he claims compensation: and he also alleges that the United States obstructed
the delivery of the wood, so as to cause him an additional expense of $468, which he also claims to recover.
Hearing was had; and the Court of Claims dismissed the
petition, and the claimant appealed to this court.
Throughout, the attorney or agent of the contractor claimed
the right to cut the wood within the military reservation, evi-dence of which is seen in the fact that he commenced cutting

FRANCIS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot

about a mile and a half from the fort, where he cut forty cords
before he was ordered by the post commander to desist, and to
remove beyond the lines of the reservation. Whaiever he may
have claimed, he obeyed the order, and removed to another
point, four miles from the fort, though still within the reservation ; and there he cut three hundred and ten cords of the wood,
when the commander of the post ordered him to stop cutting at
that place, and to move outside of the reservation. Responsive
to that order, he set up the claim that he had a right, under the
contract, to cut the wood within the reservation ; but the post
commander refused to recognize any such right, and denied the
claim.
Opposite views were evidently maintained by the parties,
but the claimant yielded, and cut the balance of the wood
required, to wit, six hundred and fifty cords, at a point half
a mile or a mile beyond the limits of the reservation, and about
seven miles from the fort.
Neither party attempted to rescind the contract; nor did the
agent of the contractor cease to act under it, as he completed
the cutting of the wood, and subsequently delivered it at the
place designated in the contract, and collected the amount due
to him at the contract price. Quantity, price, and place of
delivery are all fixed in the contract; but nothing is said about
the place where the wood is to be cut, except what may be
properly inferred from the provision that no traders, sutlers,
contractors, civilians, or others shall be allowed to cut timber
about the post until all required by the party of the second
part, to wit, the United Sates, for the purposes herein specified,
shall have been secured; and that it shall be the duty of the
post commander to enforce the stipulation as made and provided.
Beyond all question, the post commander denied the right of
the attorney, under the contract, to cut the wood within the lines
designating the military reservation; and it is equally clear that
the agent of the claimant finally acquiesced in the views of the
post commander, so far as respects the cutting of the wood.
Damages are claimed by the petitioner because he was not
allowed to cut the wood within the military reservation; but it
is clear that the claim cannot be supported, for several reasons,

Oct.1877.J

FRANCIS V. UNITED STATES.

' ither of which is sufficient to show that the judgment of the
court below is correct: 1. Because the terms of the contract do
not give the contractor the right which he claims. 2. Because
the contract, when-properly construed, prohibits the contractor
from cutting wood within the reservation. 8. Because the contractor having acquiesced in the order of the post commander,
and cut the wood outside of the reservation, and having since
hauled and delivered the wood, and received his pay in full for
the same under the contract, it is too late to prefer such a claim
against the United States.
Controversy respecting the cutting of the wood ceased when
the cutting was completed; but when the claimant commenced hauling the wood cut within the reservation, four miles
from the fort, the post commander stopped the work, and would
not permit him to haul the wood, because it had been cut within
those lines in violation of positive orders. To that decision the
claimant objected, and appealed to the commanding general,
who overruled the order of the post commander, and decided
that the contractor bad a right to cut wood within the reservation, and to haul that which had been so cut. What the
contractor then wanted was not the privilege of cutting wood
within the reservation, but the right to haul that which he haO
previously cut within those lines in violation of the post com
mander's orders; and his appeal having been sustained, he was
allowed to haul the wood, as he claimed the right to do. Having previously cut the wood, he wanted to haul it to the place
of delivery, and he was permitted to do what he desired.
Suppose the decision of that high officer is correct, which is
not admitted, it is clear that it cannot benefit the claimant, so
far as respects the cutting of the wood, as it was all cut before
the appeal to that officer was taken; and there is no pretence
that the claimant ever afterwards attempted to cut any wood
within the lines of the reservation, or that any request of his for
such permission was ever after that refused.
Viewed in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that the
petitioner is not entitled to recover any thing for the alleged
extra expense of hauling the wood to the place of delivery, in
consequence of the refusal of the post commander to allow him
to cut it within the lines of the military reservation.

.960

UNITED STATES V. SIDIDIONS.

[Sup. Ct.

Even suppose that it is so, still it is insisted by the petitioner,
that, inasmuch as the order of the post commander stopping
the work of hauling the wood cut within the reservation was
overruled by the commanding general, he, the appellant, is
entitled to recover for the damage which he suffered by his
teams remaining idle for thirteen days; but the court is not
able to sustain that proposition, as it appears that he delivered
the wood under the contract, collected and received the contract
price for the same, and gave receipts in full for the same as a
transaction completed in pursuance of the written contract set
forth in the petition. Competent evidence of such acts is sufficient to prove an accord and satisfaction, and they show that
there is no error in the record.
J'udgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V.

S

m ONS.

1. An indictment under sect. 3266 of the Revised Statutes, charging the defend.
ant with causing or procuring some other person to use a still, boiler, or other
vessel, for the purpose of distilling, within the intent and meaning of the
internal revenue laws of the United States, is bad, unless it states the name
of such other person, or avers that the same is unknown.
2. An averment that such use was "in a certain building and on certain premises
where
negar was manufactured and produced" is not sufficient, as it does
not state that vinegar was manufactured or produced there at the time the
still and other vessels were used for the purpose of distilling.
. It is not necessary to aver that the spirits distilled were alcoholic. The allegation that the vessels were used "for the purpose of distilling, within the
intent and meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United States,"
sufficiently advises the accused of the nature of the offence charged.
4. The averment, that the defendant caused and procured the stills and other
vessels to be used, implies, with sufficient certainty, that they were in fact
used; and the nature of the means whereby their unlawful use was procured
is matter of evidence to establish the imputed intent, and not of allegation
in the indictment.
. In an indictment under sect. 3281 of the Revised Statutes, charging that the
defendant knowingly and unlawfully engaged in and carried on the business
of a distiller, within the meaning of the internal revenue laws of the United
States, with the intent to defraud the United States of the tax on spirits
distilled by him, it is not necessary to state the particular means by which
the fraud was effected. The intent being charged, the means are matters of
evidence for the consideration of the jury

