UNITED STATES V. KAUFMAN.

Oct. 1877.]

own benefit; but it is not necessary to examine that proposition
in view of the conclusion that the case is taken out of the operation of the statute by the other evidence and the finding of
the jury. Nor is it necessary to give any consideration to the
proposition that the act of the State of Michigan to prevent
the manufacture and sale of spirituous and intoxicating liquors
as a beverage is repealed, for the same reason, and also for the
additional reason, that the repealing clause saves "all actions
pending, and all causes of action which had accrued at the
time" the repealing act took effect. Sess. Acts, 1875, p. 279.
Having come to the conclusion that the case is taken out of
the Statute of Frauds, it is not deemed necessary to give the
other assignments of error a separate examination. Suffice it
to say, that the court is of the opinion that there is no error in
the record.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES V. KAUFAUX.
A brewer paid to the collector of internal revenue $100 for special tax on his
business from May 1, 1873, to April 30, 1874, for which a special tax stamp
was given him. At the close of the year, it was found that he had manufactured less than five hundred barrels, and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue allowed his claim for the excess paid by him. Upon proper application
to the treasury, payment of the amount so allowed was refused. ftdd, 1. That
the allowance made by the commissioner, unless it be impeached in some
appropriate form by the United States, is conclusive. 2. That the Court of
Claims has jurisdiction of a suit by the brewer against the United States to
recover the amount, and that he is entitled to judgment therefor.

the Court of Claims.
This was an action against the United States to recover the
amount which the commissioner of internal revenue had certified to the comptroller of the treasury that the claimant was
entitled to have refunded to him the value of returned special
tax stamps, after deducting therefrom five per cent, as provided
by law.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
There was a judgment against the United States, who there.
upon appealed.
APPE AL from

UNITED

STATES V. KAUFMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

The S8olicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. P. E. -Dye,contra.
MR. CMHEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Two questions are presented in this case:1. Whether the Court of Claims has jurisdiction of a suit,
brought to recover an amount allowed by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, upon the claim of a brewer for an excess of
special tax stamps used by him in payment of the special tax
upon his business at the beginning of the year, when, at the
close, it was found that be had manufactured less than five
hundred barrels, and the payment of the amount so allowed has
been refused upon proper application at the treasury.
2. Whether the facts found are sufficient to warrant the
judgment.

The Court of Claims has jurisdiction of "all claims founded
upon any law of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied,
with the government of the United States." Rev. Stat., sect.
1059.
All special taxes imposed by law, accruing after April 30,
1873, must be paid by stamps denoting the tax. Rev. Stat.,
sect. 3238; 17 Stat. 402, sect. 3. A brewer is required to pay a
special tax of $100, " provided that any person who manufactures less than five hundred barrels a year shall pay the sum
of $50 " (Rev. Stat., sect. 3244; 14 Stat. 117) ; and he cannot engage in or carry on his business until he has paid the
tax. Rev. Stat., sect. 3232; 14 Stat. 113. "The Commissioner of Internal Revenue may, from time to time, make regulations, upon proper evidence of facts, for the allowance of such
of the stamps issued under the provisions of this chapter, or any
internal revenue act, as may have been spoiled, destroyed, or
rendered useless or unfit for the purposes intended, or for which
the owner may have no use, or which, through mistake, may
have been improperly or unnecessarily used, or where the rates
of duties represented thereby have been paid in error or remitted; and such allowance shall be made either by giving
other stamps in lieu of the stamps so allowed for, or by repay-

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. KAUFMAN.

ing the amount or value, after deducting therefrom, in case of
repayment, the sum of five per cent, to the owner thereof;..."
Rev. Stat., sect. 3426; 13 Stat. 294, sect. 161; 17 id. 257,
sect.. 41. Under the authority of this act regulations were
adopted, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
June 12, 1873, among which is the following: " Claims for allowance on account of special tax stamps will not be considered
in cases where any business has been done thereunder, except
in the case of a brewer who has paid a special tax stamp of
$100, but who, at the close of the special tax year, is found to
bave produced less than five hundred barrels. In such case,
the excess paid by him, less five per cent, will be allowed."
Int. Rev. Circular, No. 109.
It would seem to be clear from this statement that the allowance of a claim by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, under
the authority of these statutes and treasury regulations, raised
an implied promise on the part of the United States to pay any
amount that might actually be due the claimant under such
circumstances, and certainly such a claim would be " founded
upon a law of Congress."
We know it was held in .Nichols v. United tates (7 Wall.
122), that the Court of Claims did not have jurisdiction of a
suit. to recover back duties upon imported goods illegally assessed, and that the same rule applied to internal revenue cases
where the decision of the commissioner upon appeal was adverse to the claimant. In such cases, a special remedy is given
by suit against the collector, if the necessary steps are taken to
secure the right to sue at all. The reason is, that as the liability is one created by statute, the special remedy provided by
the same statute is exclusive.
But here the case is different. The claim has been presented
to and allowed by the proper officer. The claimant has pursued the statutory remedy to the end. le is satisfied with
the decision that has been given, and insists upon the payment
which the government has undertaken to make. No special
remedy has been provided for the enforcement of the payment,
and consequently the general laws which govern the Court of
Claims may be resorted to for relief, if any can be found applicable to such a case. This is upon the principle that "a lia-

UNITED STATES V. KAUFMAN.

[Sup. t

bility created by statute without a remedy may be enforced by
an appropriate common-law action." Pollardv. Bailey, 20 Wall.
527. And as against the government there are no commonlaw actions: any appropriate action within the scope of the
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims may be resorted to, unless
specially prohibited. Here the right has been given, and a
liability founded upon a law of Congress created. Of such liabilities the Court of Claims has jurisdiction, and no other
remedy has been provided.
Do the facts found warrant the judgment?
These facts are, in effect, that the claimant, who was a brewer,
on the third day of May, 1873, paid to the internal revenue
collector of his district $100,as the special tax on his business
for one year, from May 1, 1873, to April 30, 1874, for which
a special tax stamp was given him by the collector; that, May
6, 1874, he applied to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
to refund $50 of this amount, as he had only manufactured
three hundred and fifty barrels during the year; that evidence
in support of this application was submitted, and the commissioner on the 5th of July, 1874, certified to the Comptroller
of the Treasury that the claimant had returned to him an
internal revenue special tax stamp of the face value of 550,
for which he was entitled to have refunded him $47.50; and
that on the same day the commissioner notified the claimant of the allowance of his claim to that amount, for which
a certificate had been lodged with the Comptroller of the
Treasury.
It is now insisted that the finding of an allowance by the
commissioner is not enough, and that the court should have
gone behind the allowance, and found the facts in respect to the
original claim. Such, we think, is not the law. To say the
least, the allowance of a claim under this statute is equivalent
to an account stated between private parties, which is good
until impeached for fraud or mistake. It is not the allowance
of an ordinary claim against the government, by an ordinary
accounting officer, but the adjudication by the first tribunal
to which the matter must by law be submitted. Until so submitted, and until so adjudicated, there is not even a primafacie
liability of the government; but when submitted, and when

Oe~t. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. KAUFMAN.

allowed upon the adjudication, the liability is complete until
in some appropriate form it is impeached. When, therefore,
the court found the adjudication against the government, without impeachment, the liability to pay was established. We do
not decide that in the Court of Claims the adjudication of the
commissioner may not be impeached, but we do decide that,
until impeached, it is binding, and that the affirmative of the
impeachment is upon the government.
It is said, however, that the finding does not show that the
government has refused payment of the allowance. In Clyde
v. United States (13 Wall. 88), we held that a rule of the
Court of Claims was void which required "that, where the case
was such as is ordinarily settled in an executive department,
the petition should show that application for its allowance had
been made to that department, and without success, and the
decision thereon;" but that case was not one in which the
action was based upon the decision of the department. Here'
it is. The foundation of the suit is the refusal of the government to pay a claim allowed by an officer authorized to repay
moneys overpaid under certain circumstances, but who can only
make pf!yment through the proper disbursing agents of the
treasury. The officer has done all he can do. -He has made
the allowance, and certified it to the Comptroller of the Treasury
for payment. It does not appear in express terms that those
charged with the duty of actually making the payment are in
any respect at fault. For all that is shown in the finding,-if the
claimant had called upon the treasurer, he would have received
his draft on the treasury, and, when that was properly presented,
the money. The case is not materially different'from what it
would have been if he had procured his draft, and sued upon
it without having first presented it for payment. Under such
circumstances, clearly there could have been technically no refusal to pay until there had been a demand, or something which
was an equivalent. Here, an application for payment was made
to a proper officer of the department. He performed his duty by
certifying his allowance, and sending it forward in the regular
course of business through the department for payment. The
,adjustment was complete, and, for all that appears, nothing more
was necessary for the claimant to -do except to call at the treas-

572

INSURANCE CO. v. EGGLESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

ury and get his money. The presumption under such cireum
stances is that payment would have been made upon proper
demand.
This record, however, does show that the claim was allowed
July 3, 1874, while the suit was not commenced until June 25,
1875; and the trial below evidently proceeded upon the theory
that no such objection to a recovery existed. In the opinion, it
is said that the " comptroller did not pass the claim, and the
allowance made by the commissioner has never been paid."
So, too, in other cases where this is referred to, it is described
as one in which "the comptroller refused to pass the account,
and interposed objections which, if final, would thwart the
action of the commissioner, and prevent the execution of the
provisions of the regulations." Boughton's Case, 12 Ct. Cl.
396. And in the argument here, ol behalf of the appellee, it
is said - that the Assistant-Attorney-General admitted on the
trial in the court below the fact of the refusal of the United
States to pay the allowance made by the commissioner in
favor of the claimant," and "that it was on the theory of
the case that the defendants had refused to make payment of
the allowance that the court entertained jurisdiction."
Under
these circumstances, we think it clear that this point was conceded below, and that it ought not to be considered here.
Judgment affirmed.

INSURANCE COmPANY v. EGGLESTON.
1, Any agreement, declaration, or course of action on the part of an insurance
company, which leads a party insured honestly to believe that by conforming thereto a forfeiture of his policy will not be incurred, followed by due
conformity on his part, will estop the company from insisting upon the
forfeiture, though it might be claimed under the express letter of the contract.
2 A policy of insurance, issued by a New York company upon the life of A., who
resided at Columbus, Miss., stipulated, that if the premiums were not paid
at the appointed dates the company shoul not be liable, that all receipts
for them were to be signed by the president and actuary, and that agents
were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge contracts, or Waive forfeitures. After the policy was issued, the company discontinued its agency at

