[Sup. Ca.

PEUGH v. DAVIS.

PEUGH

v. DAVIS.

1. A deed of lands, absolute in form, when executed as security for a loan of
money, will in equity be treated as a mortgage; and evidence, written or
oral, tending to show the real character of the transaction is admissible.
'1 An equity of redemption is so inseparably connected with a mortgage, that it
cannot be waived or abandoned by any stipulation of the parties made at
the time, even if embodied in the mortgage.
"
A subsequent release of the equity of redemption to the mortgagee must ap
pear by a writing importing in terms a transfer of the mortgagor's interest,
or such facts be shown as will estop him from asserting any interest in the
premises; and it must be for an adequate consideration.
4. In determining whether a transaction was intended to operate as such release,
the fact that the then value of the property was greatly in excess of the
amount paid, and of that originally secured, and the fact that the mortgagor
retained possession and subsequently enclosed and cultivated the land, are
strong circumstances tending to show that a release was not intended.
5. Where a deed, absolute in form, was made as security for a loan, papers
thereafter executed, which refer to the transaction as one of purchase will
be considered in connection with the deed, and will not be regarded in a
court of equity as any more conclusive of a subsequent release than the
form of the original instrument was of a sale of the property.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

This was a suit in equity, brought June 28, 1869, to redeem
certain real property in Washington City.

The defence con-

sisted in an alleged release of the equity of redemption, to
establish which, in addition to the testimony of the parties, the
defendant relied principally upon the following papers

-

"Whereas the undersigned, Samuel A. Peugh, of the city of
Washington, in the District of Columbia, having heretofore sold
and conveyed to Henry S. Davis, of the said city, two certain
squares of ground in said city, the same being squares numbered
nine hundred and ten (910) and nine hundred and eleven (911) in
the said city, the said sale and conveyance having been by the said
Peugh made with full assurance and promise of a good and indefeasible title in fee-simple, though the said conveyance contains only a
special warranty, the said conveyance to said Davis bearing date on
the fourth day of March, A.D. 1857, and being recorded on the
seventh day of September, A.D. 1857.
"And whereas the title to the said squares so conveyed as aforesaid to said Davis having been now questioned and disputed, the
said Peugh doth now, for himself, his heirs, executors, and adminis-

Oct. 1877.]

PEUGH V. DAVIS.

trators, promise, covenant, and agree to and with the said Henry S.
Davis, his heirs and assigns, in the manner following; that is, that
be, the said Samuel A. Peugh, and his heirs shall and will warrant
and for ever defend the said squares of ground and appurtenances as
conveyed, as aforesaid, unto the said Henry S. Davis, his heirs and
assigns, from and against the claims of all persons whomsoever.
"And, further, that the said Peugh, and his heirs, executors, and
administrators, shall and will pay and refund to said Davis, his heirs
or assigns, all and singular the loss, costs, damage, and expenses,
including the consideration in said deed or conveyance, which or to
which the said Davis, his heirs or assigns, shall lose, incur, pay, or
be subject to, by reason of any claim or litigation against or on
account of said squares of ground, or either of them.
"And for the full and faithful observance and performance of all
the covenants and agreements aforesaid, and for the payment of all
the sum or sums of money as therein provided, in the manner prescribed as aforesaid, the said Samuel A. Peugh doth hereby bind
himself, his heirs, executors, and administrators, and each and every
of them, firmly by these presents.
"In testimony whereof, the said Samuel A. Peugh doth hereto,
so set his hand and seal on this ninth day of February, in the year
of our Lord 1858.
"S. A. PEUGH. [sn & .J
delivered in
"Signed, sealed, and
the presence of
SFRAi cis MOHUim.
"1Wm.
H. W

."~

" WASHnGTON,D. C., Feb. 9, 1858.
"Received of Henry S. Davis $2,000, the same being in fall for
the purchase of squares Nos. 910 and 911 in the city of Washington
"$2,000.
S. A. PEUGH.2
The other facts sufficiently appear in the opinion of the
court.
The decree at special term dismissing the bill was at general
term affirmed ; and the complainant appealed to this court.
Hr. Bieard T. Merrick and M'fr. T. T. C'rittenden for the
appellant.
1. A deed which is in fact security for a loan is a mortgage,
in contemplation of a court of equity, and whether a conveyance
ubsolute on its face will take effect as a mortgage depends pri.

PEUGH

v. DAVIS.

[Sul). Ot.

marily, if not exclusively, on the nature of the consideration.
Mo-ris v. Nixon, 1 How. 118; Babcock v. Wyman, 19 id. 289;
Pricev. Robinson, 13 Cal. 116; Huntley v. Wheelwright, 29 Md.
341.
2. A court of equity will not allow the right of redemption
to be defeated by any agreement making that which is really
a mortgage a conditional sale, but, where the transaction is
doubtful, will incline to give effect to the instrument as a
mortgage. Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139; Dougherty v.
Colgan, 6 Gill & J. (Md.) 275; Artz v. Glover, 21 1id. 456;
Baugh v. Merryman, 32 id. 185.
3. The burden of proof is on the mortgagee, who claims a
release of the equity of redemption, to show that it was made
fairly, deliberately, and for an adequate consideration. Unless
the transaction be fair and unmixed with any advantage taken
by him of the use of his incumbrance, or of the necessitous
circumstances of the mortgagor, equity will hold the parties
to their original relation of debtor and creditor. Dougherty v.
Colgan, 6 Gill & J. (Md.) 275; Mills v. Mills, 26 Conn. 213;
Hyndman v. Hyndnan, 19 Vt. 9; Villa v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall.
323 ; illiams v. Owen, 5 Myl. & Cr. 303 ; Russell v. Southiard,
supra; 2 White & Tudor, Lead. Cas. in Eq. (4th Ain. ed.).
pp. 1983, 1984, 1995.
111r. Walter D. Davidge for the appellee.
The mortgagee was under no disability to purchase the equity
of redemption; and the validity of the purchase does not, to use
the language of this court, "depend upon his ability afterwards
to show that he paid for the property all that any one would
have been willing to give." Ru.qsell v. Southard, 12 How. 139.
See also Villa v. Rodriguez, 12 Wall. 323; 3 Sugden, V. & P.
(10th ed.) 227, 228; Knight v. Majoribanks, 2 Mac & G. 10,
Webb v. York, 2 Sch. & Lef. 661; Conway's JEx. v. Alexander,
7 Cranch, 218; Hicks v. Hicks, 5 Gill & J. (11d.) 85; Tral v.
Skinner, 17 Pick. (Mass.) 213; Wynkoop v. Cavring et al., 21
111 570. Such a transaction will not be set aside, except for
manifest unfairness, or gross inadequacy of price; and neither
of those grounds for relief is averred. The complainant testified in his own behalf, but was silent upon the subject of the
value of the property.

Oct. 1877.]

O EUGH v. DAvis.

More than eleven years elapsed between the date of the
transaction now sought to be impeached and the filing of this
bill, and no explanation of the delay is furnished. The laches
of the complainant, and his long acquiescence in the assertion
of adverse rights by the defendant, are a bar to this suit.
Badger v. Badger, 2 Wall. 87; Marsh v. Whitmore, 21 id. 178.
Mt fR. JbSTicE

FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity to redeem certain property, consisting of two squares of land in the city of Washington, from an
alleged mortgage of the complainant. The facts, out of which
it arises, are briefly these: In March, 1857, the complainant,
Samuel A. Peugh, borrowed from the defendant, Henry S.
Davis, the sum of $2,000, payable in sixty days, with interest
at the rate of three and three-fourths per cent a month, and
executed as security for its payment a deed of the two squares.
This deed was absolute in form, purporting to be made upon a
sale of the property for the consideration of the $2,000, and
contained a special covenant against the acts of the grantor
and parties claiming under him. This loan was paid at its
maturity, and the deed returned to the grantor.
In May following, the complainant borrowed another sum
from the defendant, amounting to ,$1,500, payable in sixty days,
with the same rate of interest, and as security for its payment
redelivered to him the same deed. Upon this sum the interest
was paid up to the 6th of September following. The principal
not being paid, the defendant placed the deed on record on the
7th of that month. In January, 1858, a party claiming the
squares under a tax title brought two suits in ejectment for
their recovery. The defendant thereupon demanded payment
of his loan, as he had previously done, but without success.
On the 9th of February following, the complainant obtained
from the defendant the further sum of $500, and thereupon
executed to him an instrument under seal, which recited that
he had previously sold and conveyed to the defendant the
squares in question; that the sale and conveyance were made
with the assurance and promise of a good and indefeasible title
in fee-simple; and that the title was now disputed. It contained a general covenant warranting the title against all par

PEUGH v. DAVIS.

[Sup. t

ties, and a special covenant to pay and refund to the defendant
the costs and expenses, including the consideration of the deed,
to which he might be subjected by reason of any claim or litigation on account of the premises. Accompanying this instrument, and bearing the same date, the complainant gave the
defendant a receipt for $2,000, purporting to be in full for the
purchase of the land.
The question presented for determination is whether these
instruments, taken in connection with the testimony of the
parties, had the effect of releasing the complainant's equity of
redemption. It is insisted by him that the 8500 advanced at
the time was an additional loan, and that the redelivered deed
was security for the $2,000, as it had previously been for the
$1,500. It is claimed by the defendant that this money was
paid for a release of the equity of redemption which the complainant offered to sell for that sum, and at the same time to
warrant the title of the property and indemnify the defendant
against loss from the then pending litigation.
It is an established doctrine that a court of equity will treat
a deed, absolute in form, as a mortgage, when it is executed as
security for a loan of money. That court looks beyond the
terms of the instrument to the real transaction; and when that
is shown to be one of security, and not of sale, it will give effect
to the actual contract of the parties. As the equity, upon
which the court acts in such Qases, arises from the real character of the transaction, any evidence, written or oral, tending to
show this is admissible. The rule which excludes parol testimony to contradict or vary a written instrument has reference
to the language used by the parties. That cannot be qualified
or varied from its natural import, but must speak for itself.
The rule does not forbid an inquiry into the object of the parties in executing and receiving the instrument. Thus, it may
be shown that a deed was made to defraud creditors, or to
give a preference, or to secure a loan, or for any other object
not apparent on its face. The object of parties in such cases
will be considered by a court of equity: it constitutes a ground
for the exercise of its jurisdiction, which will always be
asserted to prevent fraud or oppression, and to promote justice. Hughes v. Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489; Russell v. Southard,

Oct. 1877.]

PEUGH v. DAVIS.

12 How. 139; Taylor v. Luther, 2 Sumn. 228; Pierce v. Robinson, 13 Cal. 116.
It is also an established doctrine that an equity of redemption
is inseparably connected with a mortgage; that is to say, so
long as the instrument is one of security, the borrower has in a
court of equity a right to redeem the property upon payment
of the loan. This right cannot be waived or abandoned by
any stipulation of the parties made at the time, even if embodied in the mortgage. This is a doctrine from which a court
of equity never deviates. Its maintenance is deemed essential
to the protection of the debtor, who, under pressing necessities,
will often submit to ruinous conditions, expecting or hoping to
be able to repay the loan at its maturity, and thus prevent the
conditions from being enforced and the property sacrificed.
A subsequent release of the equity of redemption may
undoubtedly be made to the mortgagee. There is nothing in
the policy of the law which forbids the transfer to him of the
debtor's interest. The transaction will, however, be closely
scrutinized, so as to prevent any oppression of the debtor.
Especially is this necessary, as was said on one occasion by
this court, when the creditor has shown himself ready and
skilful to take advantage of the necessities of the borrower.
_ussell v. Southard,supra. Without citing the authorities, it
may be stated as conclusions from them, that a release to the
mortgagee will not be inferred from equivocal circumstances
and loose exTressions. It must appear by a writing importing
in terms a transfer of the mortgagor's interest, or such facts
must be shown as will operate to estop him from asserting any
interest in the premises. The release must also be for an adequate consideration; that is to say, it must be for a consideration which would be deemed reasonable if the transaction were
between other parties dealing in similar property in its vicinity.
Any marked undervaluation of the property in the price paid
will vitiate the proceeding.
If, now, we apply these views to the question before us, it
will not be difficult of solution. It is admitted that the deed
of the complainant was executed as security for the loan ob-tained by him from the defendant.
It is, therefore, to be
treated as a mortgage, as much so as if it contained a condition
voL. vw.

22

PEUGH v. DAVIS.

[Sup. CO.

that the estate should revert to the grantor upon payment of
the loan. There is no satisfactory evidence that the equity of
redemption was ever released. The testimony of the parties
is directly in conflict, both being equally positive, - the one,
that the advance of $500 in February, 1858, was an additional
loan; and the other, that it was made in purchase of the mortgagor's interest in the property. The testimony of the defendant with reference to other matters connected with the loan is,
in several essential particulars, successfully contradicted. His
denial of having received the instalments of interest prior to
September, 1857, and his hesitation when paid checks for the
amounts with his indorsement were produced, show that his
recollection cannot always be trusted.
Aside from the defective recollection of the creditor, there
are several circumstances tending to support the statement of
the mortgagor. One of them is that the value of the property
at the time of the alleged release was greatly in excess of the
amount previously secured with the additional $500. Several
witnesses resident at the time in Washington, dealers in real
property, and familiar with that in controversy and similar
property in its vicinity, place its value at treble that amount.
Some of them place a still higher estimate upon it. It is not
in accordance with the usual course of parties, when no fraud
is practised upon them, and they are free in their action, to
surrender their interest in property at a price so manifestly
inadequate. The tax title existed when the deed was executed,
and it was not then considered of any validity. The experienced searcher who examined the records pronounced it worthless, and so it subsequently proved.
Another circumstance corroborative of the statement of the
mortgagor is, that he retained possession of the property after
the time of the alleged release, enclosed it, and either cultivated it or let it for cultivation, until the enclosure was destroyed by soldiers at the commencement of the war in 1861.
Subsequently he leased one of the squares, and the tenant
erected a building upon it. The defendant did not enter into
po-,session until 1865. These acts of the mortgagor justify the
conclusion that he never supposed that his interest in the property was gone, whatever the mortgagee may have thought.

Uct. 187T.]

PEUGH v. DAVIS.

Parties do not usually enclose and cultivate property in which
they have no interest.
The instrument executed on the 9th of February, 1858, and
the accompanying receipt, upon which the defendant chiefly
relies, do not change the original character of the transaction,
That instrument contains only a general warranty of the title
couveyed by the original deed, with a special covenant to indemnify the grantee against loss from the then pending litigation.
It recites that the deed was executed upon a contract of sale
contrary to the admitted fact that it was given as security for
a loan. The receipt of the $2,000, purporting to be the pur-chase-money for the premises, is to be construed with the
instrument, and taken as having reference to the consideration
upon which the deed had been executed. That being absolute
in terms, purporting on its face to be made upon a sale of the
property, the other papers referring to it were drawn so as to
conform with those terms. They are no more conclusive of
any actual sale of the mortgagor's interest than the original
deed. The absence in the instrument of a formal transfer of
that interest leads to the conclusion that no such transfer was
intended.
We are of opinion that the complainant never conveyed his
interest in the property in controversy except as security for
the loan, and that his deed is a subsisting security. He has,
therefore, a right to redeem the property from the mortgage.
In estimating the amount due upon the loan, interest only at
the rate of six per cent per annum will be allowed.
The
-extortionate interest stipulated was forbidden by statute, and
would, in a short period, have devoured the whole estate. The
defendant should be charged with a reasonable sum for the use
and occupation of the premises from the time he took possession in 1865, and allowed for the taxes paid and other necessary
expenses incurred by him.
The decree of the Supreme Court of the District must be
reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings, in
accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered,

