Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

CASEY v. OAVARO0.
1. Possession is of the essence of a pledge; and, without it, no privilege can
exist as against third persons.
2. This doctrine is in accordance with both the common and the civil law, the
Code Napoleon (art. 2076), and the Civil Code of Louisiana (art. 3162).
3. The thing pledged may be in the temporary possession of the pledgor as
special bailee, without defeating the legal possession of the pledgee; but
where it has never been out of the pledgor's actual possession, and has
always been subject to his disposal by way of collection, sale, substitution,
or exchange, no pledge or privilege exists as against third persons.
4. Though in such a case the pledgee, by a real action against the pledgor or
his heirs, may, under the law of Louisiana, recover possession of the thing,
he cannot sustain a privilege thereon as against creditors, or against a bank
receiver, or an assignee in bankruptcy, who represents them.
5. Equity will not regard a thing as done which has not been done, when it
would injure third parties who have sustained detriment and acquired rights
by what has been done.
8. Where it was agreed that a bank should deposit bills and notes with its president and his partner, by way of pledge to secure a loan made by a third
party, and the president delivers them back to the bank officers for collection, with power to substitute other securities therefor, it is not such a
delivery and possession as is necessary to create a privilege by the law of
Louisiana.
APPEAL fiom the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
The National New Orleans Banking Association, an organization formed under the National Banking Act of 1864, failed and
suspended payment on the 4th of October, 1873, and on the 27th
of that month was placed in the hands of a receivei under the
fiftieth section of the act. At or about the time of the failure,
Charles Cavaroc, the president of the bank, took therefrom
certain bills and notes to the amount of $325,011.26, and deliv
ered the same to his firm of C. Cavaroc & Son, who claimed to
hold them as agents for the Soci6t6 de Credit Mobilier of Paris,
by way of pledge to secure said society for certain acceptances
of bills drawn by the bank in July previous. The bill in this
ease was filed by the receiver to recover possession of said securities, alleging that they were delivered by the bank to Cavaroc
& Son, in contemplation of the insolvency of the bank, not by
way of pledge, but with a view to give a preference to Cavaroc
& Son and the Credit Mobilier over other creditors of the bank,

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. C1.

contrary to the provisions of the fifty-second section of the banking act. The defendants, Cavaroc & Son and the Credit Mobilier, by their several answers, deny that the securities were
delivered by way of preference in contemplation of the insolvency
of the bank, and insist that they were actually pledged to the
society by virtue of a distinct agreement, as a consideration and
security for the acceptance by it of bills drawn by the bank to
the amount of one million francs; which bills were drawn in
pursuance of said agreement, and were negotiated by the bank
for over $218,000, and were duly accepted by the society upon
the faith of the pledged securities. The answers aver that at
the time of this transaction the bank was in good credit and
standing.
The parties having gone into proofs, the following facts were
shown: From May, 1873, until the time of its failure the bank was
in a weak financial condition, and constantly becoming weaker.
The cashier testified that on the 31st of May it had hardly
any funds to meet current checks, whilst the amount due to
depositors was $680,775. A deposit of $25,000 was opportunely made by a customer on that day; but the president,
Cavaroc, was so apprehensive of immediate suspension, that he
refused to let it be used, telling the paying teller that if any
thing should happen, he did not want the depositor to lose this
money. By getting temporary relief from the other banks of
the city, and from the New Orleans Insurance Association, and
other large'loans, it kept its doors open until the 4th of October, though, in connection with most of the other banks of
New Orleans, it ceased, from and after the 24th of September,
to pay cash, except for very small amounts, paying only in
clearing-house certificates, which it obtained by depositing
collaterals with the trustees of the clearing-house. Although
it held notes and bills receivable amounting to about a million
of dollars, a large portion of these were comparatively worthless, being either protested or renewed at maturity, and the
makers constantly failing; and all of them, of any value, being
pledged, or agreed to be pledged, for its various loans. Although this condition of the bank was not generally known,
and presumably unknown to the Credit Mobilier, yet suspicion

Oct. 1877.]

OASEY V.

CAVAROC.

of its solvency began to be entertained by many of the business
men of New Orleans as early as June or July, and its stock
became almost totally unsalable in the market.
In the early part of July, 1873, Charles Cavaroc, Jr., a
member of the New Orleans firm of C. Cavaroe & Son, being
in Paris on behalf of the New Orleans National Banking
Association, entered into negotiation with the Credit Mobilier
for procuring the acceptance of the latter for the accommodation of the bank; and, on the 11th and 12th of July, the said
negotiation was concluded in the form of a letter addressed by
Cavaroc to the society, and of an answer thereto by the latter.
The following are the material parts of this correspondence.
Cavaroc, in his letter dated July 11, 1873, says: "The verbal agreements entered into between us relative to this
operation can, we think, be thus resumed:-

"'In order to benefit by the difference in the rates of exchange
between the summer months and end of the year, time when the
large shipments commence, the Society of the Credit Mobilier
authorizes the New Orleans National Banking Association to draw
upon it, and binds itself to accept these drafts at ninety days, up to
1,000,000 francs.
"' The drafts made under these conditions shall be renewable under
the saiue conditions, but it is expressly specified that, ten days beforo
maturity, the Society of the Credit Mobilier shall be covered by Mr.
Cavaroc, president, to the amount of the payments to be made.
"' The funds realized from these emissions shall be used by the
bank against guaranties and securities of the first class, which shall
be deposited by the bank with the firm of Messrs. Cavaroc & Son,
which shall be the depository thereof, and advise the Credit Mobilier of such deposit.
" The bank shall guarantee the investment of these sums, and
the interest shall be carried to the credit of the joint account, at
the rate of seven per cent per annum.
"'This account shall in no manner allow any commission or
privileged charge on either side,-there shall figure only brokerage, stamps, and divers charges, really and honestly incurred by
either side.
"'The accounts shall be stated at the closing of each operation.
"'Profit and loss shall be equally divided between the Credit
Mobilier and the New Orleans National Banking Association.'"

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

Lsup.

Ct.

The answer of the society, dated on the 12th of July, 1873,
repeats this contract, and accepts its terms.
During the negotiation, on the 11th of July, Cavaroc and
the Credit Mobilier, respectively, despatched the following
successive telegrams to the bank in New Orleans: 1. "Bank exchange one million, ninety days' sight, Socidt6 de
Credit Mobilier, giving best securities deposited with house.
(Signed)
"CAVAROC."
2. "Defer drawing, the agreement is not yet completed.
(Signed)
"CREDIT MOBIIEIR
8. "Draw bank one million, ninety days' sight, Credit Mobilier
accepting our guarantee.
(Signed)
"CA-VAOC."
In pursuance of these advices, on the 12th of July the bank
drew its bills on the Credit Mobilier to the aggregate amount
of one million francs, and negotiated them through Schuchardt
& Co., of New York, realizing therefrom $218,454.34. The
bills were accepted by the society in due course, and were
afterwards paid by it, no funds being provided by the bank for
that purpose.
The answers allege that in this transaction Cavaroc & Son
acted as the agents of both parties. The answers further allege
that the securities in question were delivered by the bank to
Cavaroc & Son, for the Credit Mobilier, in pursuance of the
agreement; that a portion thereof, to the nominal amount of
$220,021.41, a list of which is contained in a schedule annexed to
the answer of the society, marked "Exhibit B," were delivered
on the day the drafts were drawn, to wit, July 12, 1873; and
that these not being deemed sufficient, another deposit, representing about $100,000, was made a few days afterwards; that
some portion of these securities coming to maturity and being
paid, Cavaroc & Son allowed the bank to receive the cash paid
thereon, upon other securities being given equal thereto, in lieu
thereof.
It was proved that the securities were delivered, or pretended to be delivered, as stated; but the evidence as to the
time and manner of the delivery, and the manner in which

Oct. 1877.]

OASEY V. CAVAROC.

the securities were afterwards treated, presented serious questions for the consideration of the court. It was evident that
the identical securities specified in "1Exbibit B " could not
have been delivered as early as the 12th of July, because they
were dated and discounted after that day, and "Exhibit B"
itself was not made out until the nineteenth day of August.
There was some evidence that securities to the amount of
this schedule had been delivered to Cavaroc & Son at or
soon after the twelfth day of July, and that those named in
the exhibit had been substituted for them as they severally
became due, and were renewed, or paid, as stated in the answer. The other securities, amounting to. about $100,000,
could not have been added until after Aug. 19, when "Exhibit
B" was made out, or they would have been included therein.
This list, contained in "Exhibit B," was made out for the
purpose of being transmitted to the Credit Mobilier. A
letter from C. Cavaroc & Son to the society, bearing date
Aug. 19, 1873, was exhibited in evidence, with which, as
Cavaroc, Sen., testified, a copy of the list "Exhibit B"
was forwarded to the society. It contained the following
passage: "If we have not sent you, at first, the memorandum of the
valuables we have received from the bank, to guarantee our house
and yourselves, it is because the subsequent despatch of our son
gave us to understand that the operation was made under our
guaranty, and we Had ourselves taken these valuables. But we
think it more just that we should not only transfer you this deposit,
but that we should give you the details of these notes, which are all
of the first class.
"As soon as certain of them will mature, we will take care to
replace them by others, and will advise you."
A letter from the society to the bank, dated Sept. 5, acknowledges the receipt of this letter of Cavaroc & Son, in the following terms :
"By their letter of the 19th of the same month, Messrs. Cavaroc
& Son, of your city, have sent us the memoranda of the valuables
which you deposited with them to secure your drafts on us. Said
valuables amount together to $220,021.41, which is well."

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct.

Precisely when the additional $100,000 of securities were
added to the first lot does not appear; but Charles Cavaroc,
the president of the bank, testified that it was a few days after
the delivery of the latter.
But a more serious question related to the manner in which
the securities were delivered and disposed of. The evidence
on this point was to the following effect: Charles Cavaroc,
Sen., the president of the bank, acting as agent of both parties, directed the discount clerk of the bank, who had charge
of its portfolio of notes and bills discounted, to select the securities for the Credit Mobilier. They were selected accordingly
to the amount of $220,021.41, and placed in an envelope by
themselves, and handed to Mr. Cavaroc, for Cavaroc & Son.
He handed them to the cashier of the bank for safe-keeping.
But, as some of the securities soon matured, they had to be
taken out of the envelope for collection; and Cavaroc had
them collected, or renewed, in the usual manner by the discount clerk. The trouble of going to the cashier whenever a
note became due, to get it out of the envelope, after a few days
induced a change, and the securities were handed back to the
discount clerk, in the envelope, in order that he might more
conveniently attend to their collection and renewal. When
any of them were paid, the money was taken and used by the
bank, and other notes were substituted in their place. When
renewed, the new note took the place of the old. On one
occasion, quite a large amount of the notes was exchanged for
others, because more available in some other transaction of the
bank. The entire lot, however, subject to this exchange of
individual securities, appears to have been kept in the envelope
by itself. In this manner the notes were kept in the bank
until its failure on the 4th of October, when Mr. Cavaroc took
possession of the package, and thereafter it was kept in the
office of his firm. At the same time, the indorsement of the
bank was placed on the several securities, which had not been
done before. Lists of the securities contained in the envelope
had been made out from time to time,- the last being made
on the 4th of October, when they were finally removed from
the bank. A copy of this list is annexed to the Credit Mo.
bilier's answer as "Exhibit C."

Oct.. 1877.]

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

No entry was made on the books of the bank of this transaction with the Credit "Nobilier,except that the bills drawn on
it were duly entered amongst bils payable; and the Credit
Mobilier was credited with the amount, which was put down
amongst the liabilities of the bank, and so appeared in all the
monthly statements, beginning with the 1st of August. The
pledge of securities was not noticed. These all remained on
the portfolio of bills discounted, as before, and their amount
continued to be represented in the daily and monthly statements, without any note or memorandum to show that they
had been pledged. So far as the public, and those with whom
the bank dealt, could perceive, the bank continued to have
possession and control of all the securities in its own right, and
they all appeared to be equally liable with the other assets to
the claims of all the creditors.
The Circuit Court rendered a decree dismissing the bill of
complaint, and from that decree the receiver appealed.
Mr. Thomas Allen Clarlce in support of the decree.
1. The pledge is valid, and, being of negotiable paper, no
other formality than delivery is required. Act of La., 1852,
p. 15, sect. 1; re-enacted 1855, p. 848; Rev. Civil Code, 8158;
Rev. Stat., sect. 2905. The effect of revisory legislation is
stated with clearness in State v. Holmes, 11 La. Ann. 439,
State v. Brewer, 22 id. 273, and State v. McCort, 23 id. 326.
From these decisions, it follows that the provisions of the
Revised Statutes of 1870 retained in force sect. 2905, in reference to the limitation of formalities in pledges of negotiable
instruments, notwithstanding the Revised Code of the same
year contained the provisions of the old code alongside of the
amendment of 1852. One article of the Code requires certain formalities, 8160; the other article, 3158, dispenses with
them, and the Revised Code contains the dispensing article.
So neither an act before a notary, nor an indorsement by the
pledgor, is required to constitute a valid pledge.
2. Informalities in a pledge cannot enable the pledgor to impeach it, Partee, Syndic, v. Coming, 9 La. Ann. 539; Brother
v. Saul, 11 id. 225; although they may be required as against
third persons, Matthews v. Rutherford, 7 id. 225.
3. The syndic, receiver, or assignee of a debtor has no

CASEY v. CAVAROC.

LSup. Ct.

greater authority than the debtor, except as the statute provides. Partee, Syndic, v. Corning, 9 La. Ann. 589; Gibson v.
Warden, 14 Wall. 244 ; Cook v. Tullis, 18 id. 332; Mitford v.
Mitford, 9 Ves. Jr. 86.
Assignees in bankruptcy are subject to the same equities
affecting the bankrupt's rights which could have been enforced
against him. Grant v. Mills, 2 Ves. & Bea. 308; L'x part,"
Hanson, 12 Ves. 349 ; Turner v. Harvey, Jacob, 174; Campbell
v. Slidell, 5 La. Ann. 274; Gibson v. Warden, 14 Wall. 244;
Yeatran v. Savings Institution, 95 U. S. 764.
4. It is lawful to constitute the pledgor an agent to collect
the negotiable instruments pledged, and to replace those collected by others, or to change the securities. Clark, Assignee,
v. Iselin, 21 Wall. 360; White v. Platt, 5 Den. (N. Y.) 269.
5. Sect. 52 of the statutes of 1864 measures the power
of setting aside transfers, &c., at the instance of a receiver.
This case has none of the elements prescribed. The interdiction of that section has the same purpose as that of sect. 35
of the Bankrupt Act, and operates on sales or pledges or
transfers for a fraudulent object, not on those with an honest
purpose.
Two things must concur to bring the transaction within the
inhibitions of the law: the fraudulent design of the bankrupt,
and the knowledge of it upon the part of the transferee.
Tiffany v. Lucas, 15 Wall. 410; Wager v. Hall, 16 id. 584;
Wilson v. City Bank, 17 id. 473; Cook v. Tullis, 18 id. 332;
Mays v. Fritton, 20 id. 414.
Advances may be made in good faith to a debtor to carry on
his business, no matter what his condition may be, and the
party making these advances can lawfully take securities at
the time for their repayment. Tiffany v. Boatman's Institution, 18 Wall. 376; Mays v. Fritton, 20 id. 414; Clark v. Iselin,
21 id. 360; Watson v. Taylor, id. 378; Burnhisel v. Firman,
22 id. 170; Sawyer v. Turpin, &c., 91 U. S. 114; Jerome v.
McCarter, 94 id. 734.
6. The fact that the senior member of the firm of Cavaroc
& Son was president of the bank is immaterial, for he acted
as stakeholder in his individual capacity. The contract was
hetween the Credit Mobilier and the bank. In holding the

Oct. 1877.]

OASEY V. CAVAROC.

pledge, the Cavarocs, like all stakeholders, were agents of both
parties. There was no inconsistency in this position arising
from the fact that one of .the partners was president of the
bank. He did not stand as contracting on both sides. He
said to the bank and to the Credit Mobilier, distinct persons
from himself, I will hold these stakes. He made the contract
not with himself, but with two other parties.
7. The contract was made with the authority of the corporation, through its board of directors; and the institution, having
received the benefit of the loan, cannot avoid its liability.by
denying the authority of those who contracted in its behalf.
Ottawa Plank Road v. Murry, 19 Ill. 336; Bissell v. Michigan
Southtern Norther?_IndianaRailroad Co., 22 N. Y. 258; Townshlp of Pine Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666; Bank of the
United States v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64; Bezou v. Pike, 2a
La. Ann. 788.
8. The contract was within the ordinary action of banks and
bankers, and not in contravention of the policy or the provisions
of the banking act.
Mr. J. D. Rouse and Mr. C-liarles Case, contra.
MR. JusTiCE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The substance of the agreement in this case, so far as necessary to be considered, was, that the Credit Mobilier should
accept the drafts of the banking association to the amount of
a million of francs at ninety days, the bank agreeing to furnish
funds to pay the drafts at maturity, with the privilege of a
renewal; and it was stipulated that this obligation of the bank
should be guaranteed by Cavaroc & Co., and by a deposit with
them, for the use of the Credit Mobilier, of first-class securities,
of which deposit the latter was to be advised.
This arrangement was immediately telegraphed to New
Orleans, and the drafts were drawn on the 12th of July; but
the weight of the evidence is, that none of the collateral securi
ties were delivered until the 19th of August, - which mightraise a question whether the accommodation acceptances of the
Credit Mobilier could be considered as a contemporary consideration therefor; or, if not, whether the bank was at that time,

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct.

in the apprehension of Cavaroc (the common agent), in a condition of solvency and good credit, - as to which an affirmative
answer could not well be given, since the proof is quite clear
that the bank was then struggling with serious financial difficulties, from which it never recovered.
Waiving this question, however, for the present, we will proceed to examine whether, supposing that no objection arises
from the time when this transaction took place, it amounted to
such a transfer or pledge of the securities in question as to
entitle the Credit Mobilier to a preference upon them over the
other creditors of the bank at the time of its failure. Was
there such a delivery and retention of possession of the collateral securities as to constitute a valid pledge by the law
of Louisiana? Clearly they were never out of the possession of the officers of the bank, and were never out of the
bank for a single moment, but were always subject to its disposal in any manner whatever, whether by collection, renewal,
substitution, or exchange; and collections, when made, were
made for the benefit of the bank, and not that of the Credit
Ilobilier.
The case has some features in common with, though differing
in others from, that of Clarke v. Iselin (21 Wall. 360), in which
this court held that collateral securities transferred by the borrower to the lender at the time of the loan were not divested
out of the latter by the mere fact of his depositing them with
the borrower for collection. The court say: " Obviously this
deposit in no degree affected the title of the defendants to the
notes. It merely facilitated collections." The court then cited
JWhite v. Platt,a New York case in 5 Denio, 269, in which it
was said: "'Where promissory notes are pledged by a debtor to
secure a debt, the pledgee acquires a special property in them.
That property is not lost by their being redelivered to the
pledgor to enable him to collect them, the principal debt being
still unpaid. Money which he may collect upon them is the
specific property of the creditor. It is deemed collected by the
debtor in a fiduciary capacity."
The case of Clarke v. .Telin, being a New York case, and
governed by New York law, or the common law as understood
in New York, the authority cited was necessarily of great

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

weight, if not controlling. When, as in that case, the title has
been transferred to the creditor, and the collections are made
for his benefit, the pledgor merely acting as his servant or agent
in making them, the character of the security is not affected at
the common law by the debtor having actual possession of the
collaterals, there being no fraud in the transaction. In such
case, they are held by the creditor by way of mortgage as well
as pledge; and a mortgage is valid notwithstanding the mortgagor has the possession. The difference ordinarily recognized
between a mortgage and a pledge is, that title is transferred by
the former, and possession by the latter. Indeed, possession
may be considered as of the very essence of a pledge (Pothier,
Nantissement, 8); and if possession be once given up, thepledge, as such, is extinguished. The possession need not be
actual: it may be constructive; as where the key of a warehouse containing the goods pledged is delivered, or a bill of
lading is assigned. In such case, the act done will be considered
as a token, standing for actual delivery of the goods. It puts
the property under the power and control of the creditor. In
some cases, such constructive delivery cannot be effected without doing what amounts to a transfer of the property also. The
assignment of a bill of lading is of that kind. Such an assignment is necessary, where a pledge is proposed, in order to give
the constructive possession required to constitute a pledge; and
yet it formally transfers the title also. In such a case, there is
of mortgage
a union of two distinct forms of security, -that
and that of pledge; mortgage by virtue of the title, and pledge
by virtue of the possession.
This advantage exists when notes and bills are transferred
to a creditor by way of collateral security. His possession of
them gives them the character of a pledge. Their indorsement if payable to order, or their delivery if payable to bearer,
gives him the title also, which is something more than a pledge.
This double title existed in White v. Platt and in Clarke v. Iselin.
Hence the actual possession of the securities by the creditor wasa matter of less importance in those cases.
Whether constructive possession in the creditor can be
affirmed, where an article to which his only title is that ofpledge is actually re-delivered to the debtor, with general

(ASEY

V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct.

authority to dispose of it and substitute another article of
equal value in its place, is the question which we have to meet
in this case. Such a redelivery for a mere temporary purpose,
as for shoeing a horse which has been pledged and is owned by
the farrier, or for repairing a carriage which has been pledged
and is owned by the carriage-maker, does not amount to an
interruption of the pledgee's possession. The owner is but a
mere special bailee for the creditor. So, when the debtor is
employed in the creditor's service, his temporary use of the
pledged article in the creditor's business does not effect a restoration of the possession to the debtor. This is in accordance
both with the common and the civil law. Beeves v. Capper
(5 Bing. N. C. 136) was a case of this kind. A sea-captain
pledged his chronometer for a debt. He was afterwards employed by the pledgee as master of one of his ships, and the
chronometer was placed in his charge, to be used on the voyage.
It was held that the possession of the pledgee was not lost. He
recovered the chronometer against a person to whom the master
pledged it a second time.
In Hays v. Biddle (1 Sandf. (N. Y.) 248), the plaintiff delivered to the defendant, at his request, a convertible bond of the
New York and Erie Railroad Company (which had been pledged
by the latter to the former), in order to get it exchanged for
stock of the same company, which stock was to be returned
and substituted for the bond in pledge. The defendant never
returned either the bond or the stock. The plaintiff brought
an action of trover against him for the bond, and recovered its
value, being less than the debt for which it was pledged. It
being objected that by delivering back the bond to the pledgor
the plaintiff had lost his special property in it as pledgee, the
court said: "At common law, as a general rule, the positive
delivery back of the possession of the thing, with the consent of
the pledgee, terminates his title. 2 Pick. 607 ; 15 Mass. 889.
If the thing, however, is delivered back to the owner for a
temporary purpose only, and it is agreed to be redelivered by
him, the pledgee may recover it against the owner, if he refuse
to restore it to the pledgee, after the purpose is fulfilled.
2 Taunt. 266; Story on Bailm., sect. 299. So, if it be delivered back to the owner in a new character; as, for example, as

Oct. 1877.]

O ASEY

V.

CAVAROC.

a special bailee or agent. In such case, the pledgee will still be

entitled to the pledge, not only as against the owner, but also
as against third persons. 14 Pick. 497."
In Tfacomber v. Parker (14 Pick. (Mass.) 497), referred to
in the last case, the proprietors of a brickyard contracted it
out on shares to a brickmaker, agreeing to advance the money
requisite to carry on the manufacture of bricks, and, after being
repaid their advances, to divide the profits with the latter. It
was agreed that the bricks, as fast as made, should be pledged
to the owners of the yard as security for their advances; but
the brickmaker was -o keep them in his charge, and sell them
at retail, and as often as he got the amount of a hundred dollars
from the sales he was to deposit it in bank to the credit of the
owners. The bricks were afterwards attached as to the share
of the maker for his debts. But the court held that the owners
of the yard had not, by leaving the bricks in the hands of the
maker, lost their lien as pledgees of the entire property. They
remark: "To say that this limited authority to sell the bricks
by retail, in small sums, on account of the plaintiffs, was a
waiver of their possession of the residue that remained in the
kilns in their yard, would be clearly against the intent and
meaning of the parties, unreasonable, and unwarranted by the
evidence." Again: "The special authority given by the plaintiffs to Evans [the brickmaker] was to clothe him with the
character of agent to a limited extent only, and no remission to
him, in his character of pledgor, of the plaintiffs' right to retain
the bricks according to the agreement." To the objection that
retention of possession by the pledgor would have the effect to
deceive those dealing with him, the court said: "If the vendor
or the pledgor should have the actual possession of the property
after it were pledged or sold, it would only be _prima facie, but
not conclusive, evidence of fraud. The matter might be explained and proved to be for the vendee or pledgee. It is a
most familiar principle, that one man may have the actual possession or custody, while another has the legal title and 'the
constructive possession."
In this case, it will be observed, the pledgees were joint
owners of the brick, and were owners of the premises on which
the bricks were kept; and the decision was undoubtedly cor-

CASEY v. OAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct,

rect. But, in the general remarks made by the court, there is
manifest, as in many other cases, a tendency to confound the
distinction between cases in which the title is in the creditor,
and those in which his whole interest depends on possession.
All the cases cited, however, show that a bailment to the
pledgor for a mere temporary purpose for the use of the
pledgee, or for the repair and conservation of the pledge, will
not destroy the latter's possession; at the same time, they imply
that a redelivery to the pledgor, except for the special and
temporary purposes indicated, divests the possession of the
pledgee, and destroys the pledge.
The civil law, which is more particularly our guide in the
present case, is to the same general effect; though it is more
careful in denouncing the danger of losing the right of pledge
by parting with any thing like permanent or continued possession to the pledgor; and it preserves very clearly the distinction between pledge and hypothecation, or mortgage. The old
civil law of the Digest, it is true, was more indulgent, and permitted the pledge to be delivered to the pledgor without prejadice to the security, in a manner that would not be allowed at
the present day. Thus, in book xiii. of the Digest, title vii.,
law Z5, Modestinus says: "A pledge transfers only the possession to the creditor, the property remaining in the debtor; yet
the debtor may have the use of it, either as a gratuity, or for
hire." And Paulus, in the same title, law 37, says: "If I lend
a pledge to the owner thereof, I retain possession by means of
the loan ; for before the debtor borrowed it, the possession was
not in him ; and when he borrowed it, it was my intention still
to retain the possession, and it was not his to acquire it."
Pothier's Pandects, vol. vii. p. 860.
As to this law of the Digest, Mr. Bell, in his Commentaries
on the Scotch Law, remarks as follows: "Voet very justly
observes, in criticising this law, that to permit such practices
were to endanger the safety of other creditors, and to sanction
a fraud upon the rule which requires possession to complete a
real right to movables; and that no true analogy can hold
between the law of Rome, where hypothecs without possession
were admitted, and the laws of modern commercial nations, in
which the rule is established that possession preserves property.

-Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

It is true," Bell continues, "that, in the course of many con
tracts, there is a necessity for separating property and possession; and that the mere circumstance of goods being in the
bands of another on a temporary contract will not deprive the
real proprietor of his right, in favor of the creditors of the temporary possessor. And there seems to be no doubt that the
right of a pledgee will also be sufficiently strong to support this
temporary dereliction of possession, in the course of necessary
operations on it; the manufacturer, or other holder, being eustodier for the pledgee, without injury to the real security. But
the doctrine delivered by Voet is sound, where the possession is
given up without necessity to the owner of the goods." 2 Bell,
Com. (7th ed.), p. 22.
The modern French law, governed by a similar policy, has
been put into a very explicit form in the Civil Code, which has
been followed in the Civil Code of Louisiana. A quotation of
some of the principal articles, bearing on this subject, will show
the care taken to require distinct possession in the pledgee.
Art. 3158 (Rev. Civ. Code La.), relating to movables, is as
follows: "This privilege" [namely, that of pledge] "shall take
place against third persons, only in case the pawn is proved by
an act made either in a public form, or under private signature:
Provided, that in this last case it should be duly registered in
the office of a notary-public at a time not suspicious: Provided
also, that, whatever may be the form of the act, it mentions the
amount of the debt as well as the species and nature of the
thing given in pledge, or has a statement annexed thereto of its
number, weight, and measure." This article is copied from art.
2074 of the Code Napoleon.
As to negotiable securities, the Louisiana Code, by art. 3161,
provided that a regular transfer by indorsement should be sufficient. But by a subsequent act, passed in 1852, and re-enacted
March 15, 1855, it was provided "that where a debtor wishes
to pawn promissory notes, bills of exchange, stocks, obligations,
or claims upon other persons, he shall deliver to the creditors
the notes, bills of exchange, certificates of stock, or other evidences of the claims or rights so pawned; and such pawn so
made, without further formalities, shall be valid as well against
third persons as against the pledgors thereof, if made in good
VOL. VI.
31

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. Ot.

faith." A question was made on the argument whether this
statute was in force in 1873, when the transaction in question
took place. Without giving our reasons at present, it is sufficient to say that we are satisfied that the act was in force at.
that time.
The next article, 3162, which is not affected b3 the statute,
and which is copied from art. 2076 of the Code Napoleon, is iinportant, and is in these words: "In no case does this privil-ge
subsist in the pledge except when the thing pledged, if it be a
corporeal movable, or the evidence of the debt, if it be a note or
other obligation under private signature, has been actunlly put
and remained in the possession of the creditor, or of a third
person agreed on by the parties."
As might be supposed, this article has formed the subject of
much discussion by the commentators. Troplong says: - The
pledgee has this privilege only on the condition of being possessed of the thing. This condition was expressly imposed
upon him by art. 181 of the Custom of Paris. This is reproduced by art. 2102, No. 2, of the Code Civil, and we shall specially discuss it in the commenltary on art. 2076. Possession is
indispensable to him. It withdraws the thing from the hands
of the debtor and from the actions of creditors, and sets it aside
in a privileged situation. 'Possidentis mielior est con ditio.' Possession is the most sure foundation, and the most striking index
of his privilege. Without it, the creditor would have no ground
for escaping the law of contribution. Casaregis says, I Preference is accorded to a pledgee oti the thing pledged, because he
has it in his own hands.'
"This possession ought to be certain and not equivocal. If
it is ambiguous, if the things pledged have been so placed as to
deceive the other creditors, and to lead them to believe that
the debtor always continued the possessor, the pledge would be
endangered."
T'roplong shows, however, that this possession may be a civil
possession, as where the delivery is made by the transfer of a
bill of lading of goods on board a ship, &c. Troplong, Nantissement, arts. 97-99.
The same author, in commenting on art. 2076, after treating
nf the absolute necessity of possession by the pledgee, in order

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. OAVAROC.

to constitute the relation of pledge, and after discussing the
different forms of possession, actual and constructive, adapted
to the nature and situation of the thing pledged, proceeds (Nantissement, No. 309) to treat of the manner in which it may be
in the litnds of the pledgor without destroying the possession
and right of the pledgee. He says: "Though the merchandise
be deposited in the creditor's storehouse, it may still need the
care of the debtor. Then it is not forbidden to stipulate that
he shall continue to attend to it in the interest of the creditor.
The important thing is, that this clause does not cover a fraud.
Aside from this, the possession of the creditor is not incompatible with a certain co-operation of the debtor,-being for the
conservation of the thing,-he still being the owner. The
creditor does not any the less continue exclusive possessor of
the thing. The debtor is none the less dispossessed of it." He
then gives some cases by way of illustration. For example: In 1839, Morin & Co., of Beaune, pledged to Weiland & Co.,
of Baden, sixty thousand bottles of sparkling Burgundy, for a
debt. The wine was delivered to an agent of Weiland & Co.,
and deposited in a vault hired by him for the purpose. It was
agreed that Morin & Co. should give the wine all necessary
care, in presence of the agent, who was to keep the keys of the
vault. But, to facilitate matters, it sometimes happened that
the agent gave the keys to Morin & Co.; and once, in 1840,
the latter removed some of the bottles of wine to their own
premises. Morin & Co. having failed, their assignees (syndics)
insisted that the pledge was null and void, because the debtors
were not dispossessed of the wine. But Weiland & Co. having
renounced their privilege on the wines which had been removed,
were sustained by the highest court in their claim to the remainder. It was held that the special character of the wine,
and the difficulty of finding persons qualified to take proper
care of it, were sufficient reasons for employing Morin & Co.
to attend to it; and the agent's allowing them to take the
keys occasionally for this purpose was a mere matter of convenience, to facilitate the operations of the workmen. Troplong, Nant., No. 311; Dalloz, Repertoire, vol. xxxii. p. 455,
art. Nantissement. See also Duranton, vol. xviii. INos. 525,
528, 531.

CASEY V. OAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct.

A different result was had in another case, where certain
Champagne vines were the object of the pledge, and the debtor
had reserved the care of them; and, though the vaults in which
they were stored were leased to the creditors, they communicated by open doors with the other vaults of the. debtors,
where their workmen were employed on the wines, and there
was nothing to indicate which were pledged, and which weie
not, and nothing to prevent a substitution thereof; so that the
debtors appeared in possession, and kept up their credit thereby,
which they could not otherwise have done. Troplong, No. 312;
Bicou et al. v. Syndies of Joly & Co., Dalloz, Repertoire, Nantissement, No. 93, note.
In another case, it was decided that the debtor might be
permitted to make sales of the goods pledged, provided that
they remained in the pledgee's possession, and could not be delivered to the purchaser without his consent. Dalloz, No. 1 9.
Troplong deduces, from these and other cases, the general
conclusion that, whenever the assistance of the debtor is necessary to the better accomplishment of the object of the pledge,
it ought to be permitted, provided always that it does not disturb the possession of the creditor in any respect. Nant., No.
313. Dalloz says: "It is evident that if the pledge of movables
could, without a delivery, have effect in regard to third persons,
it would be the source of great frauds and deceptions. When
the debtor is obliged to surrender possession he cannot deceive
third parties dealing with him by keeping possession of the
pledged articles as part of his estate, and getting credit thereby." He takes' special notice of the decision that a pledge is
not valid if the dispossession of the debtor is not sufficiently
complete to prevent substitution ; or if there is a mere contract
for a pledge, and not an actual pledge. Dalloz, Rep. Nant. 119.
And he lays down the principle, that though a contract for a
pledge may be enforced against the pledgor and his heirs
(Nant., No. 121), yet that, by the very words of the Code, lie
cannot set up the privilege of the pledge, which alone constitutes his right as against third persons, without actual possession, or its equivalent. Nant. 119, 209.
From these authorities it seems to be evident that., in the
French law at least, the text of which, in this regard, is the

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. OAVAROC.

same as that of Louisiana, a delivery by the owner of securities
by way of pledge, followed by a return thereof to him, for the
purpose of enabling him to collect them and apply the money
to his own use, on substituting others in their stead, and with
general liberty of substitution, and to appear as the owner and
possessor thereof in his dealings with others (the title of the
securities not being transferred to the creditor), is not such a
delivery of possession as is necessary to establish the privilege
due to a pledge as to third persons. It would be contrary to
the very letter of the law to allow such a transaction to have
that effect. It would not be mere evidence of fraud, which
might be rebutted by counter evidence; but it would be contrary to the rule of law adopted to prevent fraud. In other
words, as to third persons, it would not be a pledge at all within
the meaning and requirements of the law.
We think that the decisions in Louisiana lead to the same
conclusion. In the case of Geddes v. Bennett (6 La. Ann.
516), the object of the pledge was certain barrels of whiskey
in the warehouse of a third person. The creditor allowed the
debtor to remove them to his own premises, upon giving the
following receipt: "Received from J. & R. Geddes four hundred and fifty-six barrels of whiskey, on storage." Having the
goods thus in his own possession, the debtor parted with them to
a third person. The Supreme Court, in an action brought by
the pledgees to recover the whiskey, said: "The plaintiffs have
shown no compliance with the articles of the Code, concerning
the form of the contract of pledge, which it would be necessary
to observe in order to enable them to recover against the defendants, who are third persons; and our impression is, that, under
the circumstances of the case, the delivery of the object pledged
to Bennett, even under the receipt he gave, would of itself defeat the pledge;" referring to article 3162 of the Code, which
we have been considering. And in the late case of .D'Jfeza's
Sucesson (26 id. 35), Myers & Levy had made certain acco:nmodation indorsements for the deceased, upon the faith and
promise of receiving from him a policy of insurance upon his
life, for which he had made application. Having procured the
policy, he told them to call at his office and get it from his
book-keeper, informing them that he had told the book-keeper

CASEY

V. CAVAROC.

FSUP. Or.

it was for them. But he died before it was actually delivered.
The court held that the policy was never placed beyond the
control of D'Mcva, and that Myers & Levy never had the requisite possession thereof. "The book-keeper," say the court,
"never held the policy as agent or trustee for Myers & Levy.
Although informed of his employer's intention in regard to one
of the policies" (he had obtained two of the same amount),
"he was never instructed to deliver it to Myers & Levy, or any
one else. There was, therefore, no delivery of the policy to
Myers & Levy, although the deceased intended to do so. Consequently, they never held it as a pledge or collateral security
for their accommodation indorsements." These cases appear
to us to govern the present. The securities claimed to have
been pledged to the Credit Mobilier remained in the possession
and control of the bank until the time of its failure. Up to
that period they were not in such a condition as the law requires for a pledge. The placing them in such a condition
afterwards, by Cavaroc's removing them from the bank at the
time of its failure, w;as, in fact, an attempt to create a pledge
then, by assuming the possession requisite thereto ; and a pledge
taking its origin at that time was a preference forbidden by the
banking act.
It must not be overlooked that the Credit Mobilier has no
other claim to the securities in question but that of pledge. A
pledge, and possession, which is its essential ingredient, must
be made out, or their privilege fails. An agreement for a pledge
raises no privilege. There is no mortgage; for the title of the
securities was never transferred to them. The evidence of the
cashier is, that they were all stamped payable to the order of
the bank, when discounted. They were not indorsed by the
cashier until the day they were removed by Cavaroc, which was
after the bank had failed.
Two cases, decided by the Supreme Court of Louisiana, have
been cited and relied on (as well as some other cases in England and the United States), to show that an assignee only
takes the property assigned exactly in the plight in which the
debtor held it, and subject to all the equities to which it was
subject in his hands. The first case is that of Canipbell v.
•Videll ( 5 La. Ann. 274), in which a syndic claimed certain real

Oct. 1877.]

CASEY V. OAVAROC.

estate wl ich the debtor had conveyed to a bona fide purchaser,
but the deed had not been duly registered. The court held
that this made no difference. The debtor had parted with the
title, and, therefore, he could not assign to the syndic what he
did not himself own, although the deed might be void, for want
of registry, as against a subsequent purchaser in good faith, or
a subsequent judgment creditor who should acquire a mortgage
by recording his judgment. It is evident that this case is unlike
the one now under consideration. Here the debtor never transferred the title; and the only question is, whether there was
such an ttempt to pledge as to raise a privilege,- which, as we
have seen, there was not.
The second case is that of Partee,Syndic, v. Corning, 9 La.
Ann. 539. In this case, the debtor had actually pledged and
delivered bills receivable to the defendants for simultaneous
advances, but had not indorsed the bills, as required by art.
8156. The court said: "It is clear that the pledgors could not
have set up this objection; and we are of opinion that the
syndic cannot, upon a mere naked informality of this sort, disturb the pledge. Let it be observed that there is no pretence
that the pledges were taken in bad faith, or that an injury was
done to creditors in taking them." Here, the indispensable
requisite of possession existed. The other formalities (which
were required at that time) were enjoined by the article referred to, it is true; but there was no declaration that the
pledge should be void, or that the privilege should not exist
without them. We do not think that these cases conflict with
the conclusion which we have reached in this case.
We have examined the other authorities referred to, among
which are Mitford v. Mfford, 9 Ves. Jr. 86; Mitchell v. Winslow,
2 Story, 630; and also the cases of Gibsonv. Warden, 14 Wall
244, and Cooke v. Tullis, 18 id. 332; but these were all cases
in which the creditor claiming adverse to the assignee had a
clear legal or equitable title to the property claimed. None of
them stood as the present case does, upon the claim of a privilege expressly denied by the law. We do not deem it necessary,
therefore, to go into a review of those cases. They cannot affect
this.
Whilst it is generally true that an assignee for the benefit of

488

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[Sup. Ct.

creditors holds the property assigned subject to the same equities as the debtor or assignor held it, it is not universally true.
Many transactions would be binding on the latter which would
not be binding on the assignee. All sales and securities made
for the actual purpose of defrauding creditors are of this class.
By the law of Louisiana, a pledge, in order to be effective
against third persons, must be accompanied by a privilege. It
may be valid as a contract between the parties without this
quality, as held both in the French law (as already shown)
and in Louisiana, in the case of Matthews v. Rutherford, 7 La.
Ann. 225. But art. 3162 expressly declares that the privilege
arising from a pledge does not subsist except when the thing
pledged has been actually put and remained in the possession
of the creditor, or of a third person agreed on by the parties.
Without the privilege, or right of preference, the Credit Mobilier has no claim to hold the securities in question as against
the other creditors. How, then, can it set up such a claim
against the receiver? The receiver does not represent the bank
alone: he represents all the parties. He represents the law,
which takes charge of the property for the benefit of all creditors, according to their respective and mutual rights. Suppose
no receiver had been appointed, and, when the bank failed, it
had called the creditors together, and laid all its assets on a
table, could the Credit Mobilier, in presence of the other
creditors, have laid its bands on the securities in question, and
claimed them by right of any privilege or preference? It certainly could not have done so if it had no privilege as against
them. And yet this is precisely the relation in which the parties stood. The existence of a receiver, as trustee for all, did
not change it. That one essential thing which the law requires
for the subsistence of the privilege, namely, possession, was
wanting. Other formalities might have been dispensed with.
But, possession is essential, - made so by the express terms of
the law. Nearly all the cases in France, where this question
has arisen, have been contests between creditors claiming by
way of pledge, and the syndics of the failing debtor, who stand
in the place occupied by the receiver here. If there is 'any
distinction between them, it is in favor of a firmer right on the
part of the receiver to protect the interests of the general cred

Oct. 1877.3

OASEY V. CAVAROC.

itors. He is not made receiver by a voluntary assignment of
the bank, but is appointed by the magistrate in invitum ther
bank, for the very purpose of securing equal justice to all its
creditors, and under a law which sternly forbids preferences.
Surely such an officer, whatever may be the rule in the case of
voluntary assignments, may assert those rights of the general
creditors, which the law itself creates, without being subject to
all the disabilities under which the bank would labor in combating its private engagements with favored creditors. If the
law says, "there shall be no privilege, as to third persons, by
a pledge without possession," there will be no need of a judgment and execution in order to oppose such a pledge, if only a
creditor, or one who represents creditors, has a proper standing
in court. Insolvency of the debtor, if a bank, and the appointment of a receiver thereof, will force the pledgee into concurrence with the general creditors; and the receiver's power will
be fully adequate to the protection of their interests as established by law. The case of Bank of Alexandria v. Herbert
(8 Cranch, 36) presents a state of things almost precisely
analogous to this. There, the trustee of an insolvent debtor
recovered the proceeds of property which the latter had mortgaged to the bank. The recovery was had on the ground that
the mortgage had not been recorded in proper time under
the law of Virginia, which declared that all deeds and mortgages, though good between the parties, should be void as to
creditors and subsequent purchasers without notice, unless recorded within eight months from date. "To set up this deed
against the creditors," said Mr. Chief Justice Marshall, "would
be to defeat the very object for which the law was made."
Indeed, it may be laid down as a general rule, as well at the
common law as the civil law, that a trustee, assignee, or syndic,
having the powers and occupying the relations which are sustained by a receiver under the National Banking Act, or an
assignee in bankruptcy, may well oppose any privilege or preference which the law itself, unaided by a bona fide purchase or
judgment, would regard as void against the general creditors in
a direct contest between them and the parties claiming such
privilege or preference; even though the debtor himself, on
account of some personal disability arising from his own acts

CASEY V. CAVAROC.

[SUP. Ct.

or engagements, could not resist the claim. That an assignee
in bankruptcy has this power cannot well be doubted; and
since a national bank cannot be put into bankruptcy, but can
only be wound up under the peculiar provisions of the banking
act, the receiver appointed by virtue thereof must have the same
power, or the absurd consequence would follow, that the property
of a bank disposed of by voluntary conveyances, or pledges not
good as to third persons, would be beyond the reach of creditors.
Vhere the legal or equitable property in a security passes,
and there is no express law invalidating the transfer, the creditor will be entitled to hold it as well against the assignee or
receiver as against the debtor; because the assignee only takes
such title as the debtor has at the time of the assignment or
insolvency. In that case, however, the question of fraud would
be admissible as a question of fact, to invalidate the transaction. But, in the present case, that question does not arise;
or, if it might be raised, it is immaterial. The Credit Mobilier
claims a privilege by virtue of a pledge; and such a privilege,
as we have seen, cannot be maintained as to third persons,
without possession. Bad faith, it is true, would defeat the
pledge though the creditor had possession. But want of possession is equally fatal, though the parties may have acted in
good faith. Both are necessary to constitute a good pledge so
as to raise a privilege against third persons. The requirement
of possession is an inexorable rule of law, adopted to prevent
fraud and deception; for, if the debtor remains in possession,
the law presumes that those who deal with him do so on the
faith of his being the unqualified owner of the goods.
This consideration meets the objection which is urged against
the rule, that it would result in giving to the general creditors
the benefit of the advances made to the debtor on the faith
of the stipulated pledge, inasmuch as the estate is increased to
the extent of these advances. It is true that the estate is so
increased; but the debts and liabilities are also increased to
the same amount by the demand of the party who makes the
advances, - the only effect of the rule being, that the latter
comes into concurrence with the other creditors on an equality,
and not by way of preference; and if the latter derive any benefit from this result, it must be remembered that, in the view

0o6t. 1877.j

CASEY v. OAVARO0.

of the law, they might not have given credit to the common
debtor had he not remained in possession of the goods, and
appeared to continue as the absolute owner thereof. If the
pledge should be sustained, they would have good cause to
complain that they had been deceived by the acts of the parties
setting up the pledge. So that, on the question of relative
merit and demerit, the parties are in all respects equal. It is
on this principle that the law is founded.
These considerations also supply an answer to another suggestion, that equity will consider as done what the parties
intended should be done, which it is assumed was, in this case,
a transfer of the title of the securities. Equity will not exercise this power when it would injure third persons who have
incurred detriment, and acquired consequent rights by the acts
that are done. Such detriment has, in the view of the law,
been incurred in this case, and such rights have, by the express
letter of the law, accrued.
This suggestion may also be answered by the fact that it
cannot be truly said to have been the intent of the parties to
transfer the title. The agreement was only that "securities of
the first class shall be deposited with the firm of Messrs. Cavaroc & Son." A transfer of the title would have been inconsistent with that unrestricted control over the securities which
the bank desired to, and did, retain, and which must be considered as having been assented to by the Credit Mobilier,
through the common agent, Cavaroc.
On this ground, therefore, of want of possession in the
pledgee, or of a third person agreed upon by the parties, and
of actual possession and control in the pledgor, we feel compelled to hold that the Credit Mobilier had no privilege as to.
third persons, and that the receiver was entitled to the securities in question.
The decree will, accordingly, be reversed, and the cause remanded to the Circuit Court with directions to enter a decreein favor of the complainant below in conformity to this opinion;
and it is
So ordered..
MR. JUSTWE S WAYNE, AIR. JUSn=E FIEL,
TICE HARLAN dissented.

and MR. Jus-

