ARTHUR v. UNKART.

[Sup. Ot.

this act be, and the same are hereby, repealed; . . . and pro-

vided further, that the duties upon all goods, wares, and merchandise imported from foreign countries, not provided for in
this act, shall be and remain as they were, according to existing
laws prior to the 29th of April, 1864." 13 Stat. 216.
This may well be construed to retain duties on articles specifically enumerated in former acts, different from those imposed by
the act of 1864, but not specifically named therein, and although
the same class of subjects may be referred to in the act of 1864.
The judgment must be affirmed, upon the grounds following:
1. The commercial designation of an article among traders
and importers, when clearly established, fixes its character for
the purpose of the tariff laws.
2. When Congress has designated an article by its specific
name, and imposed a duty upon it by such name, general terms
in a subsequent act, or in a later part of the same act, although
sufficiently broad to comprehend such article, are not applicable
to it.
3. That the expression, "not otherwise provided for," in the
eighth section of the act of 1864, does not deprive these rules
of their ordinary application.
Judgment affirmed.

ARTHUR V. UNKART.
1. In 1873, certain gloves, commerc; illy known as "silk plaited gloves," or "patent
gloves," made on frames and manufactured in part of silk and in part of
cotton, cotton being the component part of chief value, were imported at
New York, upon which the collector imposed a duty of sixty per cent ad
valerein, under the eighth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13 Stat. 210).
Held, that the articles did not come within the general terms of that section, because, 1st, they were not, by reason of their component materials,
silk gloves; 2d, they were commercially known only as "plaited gloves,"
or "patent gloves;" and, 3d, they did not fall within the concluding clause,
silk not being the component part of chief value.
2. Not being included in the act of 1864, the articles were dutiable under the
twenty-second section of the act of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 191), and the
thirteenth section of the act of July 14, 1862 (id. 556), where they are
enumerated as gloves made on frames.
3. In an action against a collector of customs to recover the amount of duties
on imports alleged to have been exacted in violation of law, t",e burden of
proof is upon the plaintiff.

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR v. UNKART.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In May, 1873, Unkart & Co. imported into New York certain merchandise, upon which the plaintiff in error, the collector
of the port, assessed and collected a duty of sixty per cent,
under the eighth section of the act of June 80, 1864 (13 Stat.
210), which imposed a duty of sixty per cent on various articles
of clothing made of silk; naming hats, gloves, &c. The concluding clause of the section is as follows: "On all manufactures
of silk, or of which silk is the component of chief value, not
otherwise provided for, fifty per cent ad valorem."
Against the imposition of that rate of duty the importers
protested in due form, upon the ground that such merchandise,
being gloves and similar articles made on frames, not otherwise
provided for, is only liable to duty under the twenty-second
section of the act of March 2, 1861, and the thirteenth section
of the act of July 14, 1862, at the rate of thirty-five per cent
ad valorem, less ten per cent; under the second section of the
act of June 6, 1872, as a manufacture of cotton, or of which
cotton is the component part of chief value.
Upon the trial of this action, which was to recover the excess
so paid, it was conceded that the articles in question were gloves;
that they were commercially known as "silk-plaited gloves,"
or "patent gloves;" that they were manufactured in part of
silk and in part of cotton, and were made on frames.
The court charged the jury, that, while the burden of proof
was upon the plaintiffs to show that they had fulfilled all the
formal, ordinary prerequisites to bringing their action, it was
upon the defendant to justify his exaction of the duty imposed,
so that it was for them to be satisfied that the evidence fairly
preponderated in favor of the defendant, that the materials
which were the component of chief value in the gloves in question were silk ; otherwise, the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict,
there being no question on the evidence but that the prerequisites in regard to which the burden rested upon the plaintiffs
had been complied with. The jury found that cotton was the
chief component of value in the gloves, and that the value of
the silk therein was less than that of the cotton, and gave theii
verdict for the plaintiffs.

ARTHUR v. UNKART.

[Sup. Ot.

Mr. Assistant-Attorney-GeneralSmith for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Stephen G. Clarke, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The twenty-second section of the act of March 2, 1861
(12 Stat. 191), provided a duty of thirty per cent on many
articles, and, among them, "caps, gloves, leggins, mits, socks,
stockings, wove shirts and drawers, and all similar articles
made on frames, of whatever material composed, worn by men,
women, or children, and not otherwise provided for."
The thirteenth section of the act of July 14, 1862 (id. 556),
increases this duty by the same descriptive terms, five per cent
ad valorem.
By the act of June 6, 1872 (17 id. 230), the duties upon manufactures of cotton, having cotton as the component of chief
value, were reduced ten per cent.
The articles in question did not come within the general
terms of the eighth section of the act of 1864, for these reasons:
1st, They were not silk gloves, by reason of their component
materials being composed of silk and cotton, the latter material
preponderating; 2d, they were commercially known as "plaited
gloves," or "patent gloves," and not as silk gloves.
They did not fall within the concluding clause, because silk
was not the component of chief value. The facts here stated
are founded upon the concessions of the parties at the trial and
upon the verdict of the jury.
Not being included in the act of 1864, the articles are dutiable under the acts of 1861 and 1862, where they are enumerated
as gloves made on frames, and by the act of 1862, which adds
five per cent to the duty of 1861.
The suggestion is made that the articles may be taxed under
the similitude clause of the act of Aug. 30, 1842. 5 Stat. 565;
Rev. Stat., sect. 2499. This provision, by its terms, applies to
non-enumerated articles only (Stu-art v. Maxwell, 16 How. 150) ;
and no such claim was made on the trial that it applied to this
case. Among the ten carefully prepared points presenting the
views of the government, there is no reference made to the
similitude act of 1842. Neither the collector in imposing
the tax, nor the counsel at the trial, professed to act under or

Oct. 1877.]

ARTHUR v. UNKART.

to demand any advantage from the act of 1842. The right of
the government was placed exclusively upon the act of 1864.
Upon the point of the rate of duties to which the goods were
liable, we are of the opinion that the importers were right, and
were entitled to a return of the excess paid by them.
There is, however, a further question in the case. The counsel for the defendant requested the court to charge, that, in
this action to recover for an alleged illegal exaction of duties,
it devolved upon the plaintif to make out- his case, by showing the illegality complained of; that the burden of proof was
on the plaintiff to satisfy the jury, by a fair preponderance
of evidence, as to the character of the materials of the gloves.
The court refused this request, but charged the jury "that the
burden of proof is upon the defendant to justify his exaction of
the duty imposed, so that it is for you to be satisfied that the
evidence fairly preponderates in favor of the defendant, that
the materials which are the component of chief value are silk,
otherwise the plaintiffs are entitled to a verdict."
It is not doubted that it was the duty of the collector, in
the first instance, to decide whether the articles imported were
dutiable, and at what rate. The statute makes it his duty.
Neither can it be doubted that unless protest is made within
ten days, and unless an appeal is taken to the Secretary of the
Treasury within thirty days after such decision, the decision
of the collector on these points is final and conclusive. The
statute expressly declares that it shall be so. The decision of
the Secretary upon such appeal is also declared by the statute
to be final and conclusive, unless a suit be brought to recover
any alleged excess of duties within ninety days after such
decision, or within ninety days after the payment of duties, if
payment be made after such decision. No suit can be maintained until the decision of the Secretary has been had as to
any transaction at a point east of the Rocky Mountains, unless his decision has been delayed for more than ninety days.
13 Stat. 214, sect. 14; Rev. Stat., sect. 2931. Express authority
to maintain the action is given by the statute of 1845 and the
Revised Statutes. 5 Stat. 727; Rev. Stat., sect. 3011.
When an appeal is taken from his decision, the decision of
the collector ceases to be conclusive; and the same is true of the

ARTHUR v. UNKART.

[Sup. Ct.

decision of the Secretary of the Treasury. These officers are,
however, selected by law for the express purpose of deciding
these questions: they are appointed and required to pronounce
a judgment in each case; and the conduct, management, and
operation of the revenue system seem to require that their
decisions should carry with them the presumption of correctness. This rule is not only wise and prudent, but is in accordance with the general principle of law, that an officer acting in
the discharge of his duty, upon the subject over which juris
diction is given to him, is presumed to have acted rightly.
The case may be likened to that of a sheriff who levies upol
the property of a debtor, who claims that a portion of it is
exempt from seizure upon execution. It is not sufficient that
the debtor shall claim the exemption, but he must, by proof of
registry when necessary, or that the articles seized are those
named in the statute, or are required to make up the amount of
the exemption, or in some other mode, prove that articles were
exempt, and that thus the seizure was illegal. Both the sheriff
and collector have power to act in the first instance upon the
question in dispute, and he who insists that such action is in
violation of law must make the proof to show it. Griffin v.
Lathulu, 14 Barb. (N. Y.) 456; Tuttle v. Buck, 41 id. 417; Van
Sickler v. Jacobs, 14 Johns. (N. Y.) 434.
The importers here bring their suit, alleging in their complaint not merely that there was an exaction of duties, but that
such exaction was excessive and illegal. The burden of proof
is upon the party holding the affirmative of the issue. Johns v.
Plowman, 49 Barb. 472. Mr. Roscoe says: "When the issue
involves the charge of culpable omission, it is incumbent on the
party making the charge to prove it, although he must prove a
negative, for the other party shall be presumed to be innocent
until proved to be guilty." Roscoe, Evid. 52, cited 15 Pick.
317, where the issue was upon the materiality of a fact not
communicated to the underwriter.
In Bank of the United States v. Davis (2 Hill (N. Y.), 451),
where the question was whether a discount had been made in
bills procured from the old Bank of the United States, the
court say, that the party alleging the illegality of a contract has
the burden of proof, there being nothing illegal upon its face.

Oct. 1877.]

O 8.RTHUR

V. UNKART.

To the same purport see ( Yuyler v. Sanford, 8 Barb. (N. Y.)
225.
So, on an application to vacate an assessment for a local improvement on the ground of fraud, the burden of proof is on
the applicant. Hatter of Petition of Sarah Bassford et al.,
50 N. Y. 509.
In an action against public officers for a non-feasance, the
burden of proof is on the plaintiff. Mintlan v. _ochfeller,
6 Conn. 276.
Mr. Greenleaf (Greenl. Evid., sect. 80) thus lays down the
rule: "So where the negative allegation involves a criminal
neglect of duty, official or otherwise, or fraud, or the wrongful
violation of actual lawful possession of property, the party
making the allegation must prove it; for in these cases the
presumption of law, which is always in favor of innocence and
quiet possession, is in favor of the party charged;" and many
instances are cited.
Again, it is to be observed that in the case of the articles iu
question, as with most other importations, they were admitted
to be liable to some duty. Simply holding the goods for duty
was not, therefore, of itself an illegality. It was only when
they were held for more duty than the law justified that it
became duress and illegal; and, to entitle himself to recover for
the illegality, the plaintiff must show such excessive charge.
If the collector had no authority in the premises, and could hold
the goods for no amount whatever, a different question would
arise. But here the very issue was as to amount, and the proof,
therefore, of illegal amount rested upon the plaintiff.
The case of Wilkinson v. Greeley (1 Curt. 63) is cited to sustain the ruling we are considering. It is true that the circuit
judge, on the trial of that case, charged that the burden of proof
was on the collector to show that the articles were not truly
described in the invoice, and were, therefore, subject to the
higher duty, and that, on the motion for a rehearing before Mr.
Justice Curtis, he assumed that to be the law. It does not,
however, appear that the point was made and argued by counsel, or that it received from the learned judge that consideration
which would entitle it to be held as an authority. The ruling
has never been followed in the circuit where made, so far as

ARTHUR v. ZIMMERMAN.

[Sup. Ot.

we can learn, and during the last fifteen years we have the
authority of Mr. Justice Clifford for saying that the law has
always been held in that circuit to be otherwise.
For this error the judgment must be reversed and a venire de
novo awarded; and it is
So ordered

ARTHU-R v. ZIMMERxAN.
1. The distinction between "cotton braids" and "other manufactures of cotton
not otherwise provided for," and "hat braids," has been established and
recognized by Congress by the acts of March 2, 1861 (12 Stat. 178), and
July 14, 1862 (id. 543), and sect. 2504 of the Revised Statutes.
2. "Braids . . . used for making or ornamenting hats," being specifically enumerated in said acts of 1861 and 1862, are subject to the duty thereby prescribed,
and not to that imposed by the sixth section of the act of June 30, 1864 (13
Stat. 209), upon "cotton braids, insertings, lace trimmings, or bobbinets, and
all other manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for."

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
In 1873 and 1874, Zimmerman imported certain goods from
France, which were composed of cotton, and commercially
known as "hat braids." Arthur, the collector of the port of New
York, imposed upon them, and collected, under protest, a duty
of ninety per cent of thirty-five per cent ad valorem, under the
sixth section of the tariff act of 1864 (13 Stat. 209), which
imposes that duty upon " cotton braids, insertings, lace trimmings, or bobbinets, and all other manufactures of cotton not
otherwise provided for."
It appeared, upon the trial of the suit to recover the excess
so paid, that there were goods known as cotton braids, used
for other purposes, but that the goods in question were commercially known as "hat braids," and used exclusively for making
and trimming hats and bonnets.
The court below, being of the opinion that the articles were
only liable to duty at thirty per cent, under the eighth section
of the act of July 14, 1862 (12 Stat. 551), so instructed the
jury, and directed a verdict for the plaintiff. Judgment having
been rendered thereon, the collector brought the case here.

