WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

this construction of the act of 1853 we concur, and it is fatal
to the case of plaintiff in error. And this question of law is
the only one of which this court can have jurisdiction in the
present case.
It appears very clearly by the facts found that Ferguson's
original claim or settlement of about one hundred and fifty
acres is subdivided by the township line which runs between
townships six and seven south, of range one west, of the Mount
Diablo meridian, and that about thirty acres, including his
residence, fell within the latter. He afterwards secured a title
to this as a settler on land granted to the town of Santa Clara
by act of Congress, which act provided that the grant should
inure to the benefit of those who were actual settlers on any
part of it.
As we have already said, the land-office held that this fact
was fatal to his right of pre-emption in any portion of township
6, though it adjoined his land in the other township, and was
part of his improvement.
We see no error in that construction of the law, and none in
the judgment of the Supreme Court of California.
Judgment affirmed.

WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

1. The Confederate States was an illegal organization, within the provision of
the Constitution of the United States prohibiting any treaty, alliance, or
confederation of one State with another; whatever efficacy, therefore, its
enactments possessed in any State entering into that organization must be
attributed to the sanction given to them by that State.
2. Any enactment, from whatever source originating, to which a State gives the
force of law, is a statute of the State, within the meaning of the act regulating the appellate jurisdiction of tfis court over the judgments and decrees
of the State courts.
8. An enactment of the Confederate States, enforced as a law of one of the States
composing that confederation, sequestrating a debt owing by one of its citizens to a citizen of a loyal State as an alien enemy, is void, because it impairs the obligation of the contract, and discriminates against citizens of
another State. The constitutional provision prohibiting a State from passing a law impairing the obligation of contracts equally prohibits a State
from enforcing as a law an enactment of that character, from whatever
source originating.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAAMS V. BRUFFY.

4. When a rebellion becomes organized, and attains such proportions as to be
able to put a formidable military force in the field, it is usual for the established government to concede to it some belligerent rights; but to what
extent they shall be accorded to the insurgents depends upon the considera.
tions of justice, humanity, and policy controlling the government.
5 The concession of belligerent rights to the Confederate government sanctioned
no hostile legislation against the citizens of the loyal States.
d Where property held by parties in the insurgent States, as trustees or bailees
of loyal citizens, was forcibly taken from them, they may in some instances
be released from liability, their release in such cases depending upon the
same principles which control in ordinary cases of violence by an unlawful
combination too powerful to be successfully resisted; but debts due such
citizens, not being tangible things subject to seizure and removal, are not
extinguished, by reason of the debtor's coerced payment of equivalent
sums to an unlawful combination. They can only be satisfied when paii
to the creditors to whom they are due, or to others by direction of lawful
authority.
7 .De facto governments of two kinds considered: (1.) Such as exists after it has
expelled the regularly constituted authorities from the seats of power and
the public offices, and established its own functionaries in their places, so as
to represent in fact the sovereignty of the nation. As far as other nations
are concerned, such a government is treated as in most respects possessing
rightful authority; its contracts and treaties are usually enforced; its acquisitions are retained; its legislation is in general recognized; and the rights
acquired under it are, with few exceptions, respected after the restoration
of the authorities which were expelled. (2.) Such as exists where a portion of the inhabitants of a country have separated themselves from the
parent State and established an independent government. The validity of
its acts, both against the parent State and the citizens or subjects thereof,
depends entirely upon its ultimate success; if it fail to establish itself permanentiy, all such acts perish with it; if it succeed and become recognized,
its acts from the commencement of its existence are upheld as those of an
independent nation.
. The Confederate government was distinguished from each kind of such de
facto governments. Whatever de facto character may be ascribed to it consists solely in the fact that for nearly four years it maintained a contest
with the United States, and exercised dominion over a large extent of territory. Whilst it existed, it was simply the military representative of the
insurrection against the authority of the United States; when its military
forces were overthrown, it utterly perished, and with it all its enactments.
0. The legislative acts of the several States stand on different grounds; and, so
far as they did not impair or tend to impair the supremacy of the national
authority, or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution, they are, in
general, to be treated as valid and binding.
ERROR

to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of

Virginia.
This was an action of assumpsit for certain goods sold by
the plaintiffs in March, 1861, to George Bruffy, since deceased,
vOL.. vI.

12

WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ot.

brought against the administrator of his estate in the Circuit
Court of Roekingham County, Virginia. The plaintiffs at the
time of the sale were and still are residents of the State of
Pennsylvania; and the deceased was then, and until his death,
which occurred during the war, continued to be, a resident of
the State of Virginia.
The defendant pleaded the general issue, and two special
pleas, in one of which he averred, in substance, that Pennsylvania was one of the United States, and that Virginia was one
of the States which had formed a confederation known as the
Confederate States; that from some time in 1861 until some
time in 1865 the government of the United States was at
war with the government of the Confederate States; that on
the 30th of August, 1861, the Confederate States enacted a law
sequestrating the lands, tenements, goods, chattels, rights, and
credits within the Confederate States, and every right and interest
therein, held by or for any alien enemy since the 21st of May,
1861, excepting such debts as may have been paid into the
treasury of one of the Confederate States prior to the passage
of the law, and making it the duty of every attorney, agent,
former partner, trustee, or other person holding or controlling
any such property or interest, to inform the receiver of the
Confederate States of the fact, and to render an account thereof,
and, so far as practicable, to place the same in the hands of the
receiver, and declaring that thereafter such person should be
acquitted of all responsibility for the property thus turned over,
and that any person failing to give the information mentioned
should be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor; that on the
1st of January, 1862, this law being in force, the defendant's
intestate paid over to the receiver of the Confederate States
the amount claimed by the plaintiffs, and that by virtue of
such payment he is discharged from the debt. The second
special plea is substantially like the first, with the further
averment that the debt due to the plaintiffs was sequestrated
by the decree of a Confederate district court in Virginia, upon
the petition of the receiver, who afterwards collected it with
interest.
The plaintiffs demurred to these pleas; but the demurrers
were overruled. The case was then submitted to the court

Oct. 1877.]

WLLIAMS

t.

BRUF'Y.

upon certain depositions and an agreed statement of facts.
They established the sale and delivery of the goods, the residence of the plaintiffs and of the deceased during the war, and
the payment by the latter of the debt in suit to the sequestrator
of the Confederate government under a judgment of a Confederate district court. The court below gave judgment for the
defendant; and the subsequent application of the plaintiffs to
the Supreme Court of Appeals for a supersedeas was denied,
that court being of opinion that the judgment was plainly right.
Such a denial is deemed equivalent to an affirmance of the
judgment, so far as to authorize a writ of error from this court
to the Court of Appeals.
Hr. Timothy 0. Howe and Mr. Enoch Totten for the plaintiffs in error.
1. In the decision in this cause there was drawn in question
the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under,
Virginia, on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, and the decision was in favor of
such validity. If she had not violated the Constitution by
entering into an "agreement or compact" with other States,
the debtor of the plaintiffs would not have been within the
so-called Confederacy. The efficacy of the sequestration law,
so far as it operated upon their rights and privileges, was
imparted to it by Virginia, through her unlawful acts and
combinations with other States.
2. The decision below was adverse to the title, right, privilege, and immunity under the Constitution of the United States,
which the plaintiffs specially claimed.
The Constitution declares that "the citizens of each State
shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens
in the several States;" and that "no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities
of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law;
nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
As citizens of Pennsylvania, the plaintiffs, under these provisions, had a right to pass through or reside in Virginia; to
take, hold, and dispose of property within her borders; to

WILLIAMIS V. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

institute and maintain actions in her courts, and to have the
same rules of law enforced in the determination of them as
would govern in suits between her citizens. Corfield v. Coryell,
4 Wash. :71; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418. They were
entitled to every privilege or immunity allowed to her most
favored class of citizens. Tenn. v. Ambrose, 1 Meigs, 381 ; Paul
v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 id. 75.
The courts of Virginia, in a suit between her own citizens,
could not have recognized as valid the defence set up below.
This confiscation law which she enforced applies exclusively
"to alien enemies," or, in other words, to citizens of the loyal
States, and there can be no question that it impaired the obligation of this contract, and withheld from these plaintiffs the
privileges and immunities to which they were undoubtedly
entitled.
K/r. Henry TV. Garnett and Mr. Thomas J. Miller for the defendant in error.
1. This court has no jurisdiction. No question arose touching the validity of a statute of any State, or of an authority
exercised under it. "The Confederate States of America,"
so called, was an entirely different thing from the State of
Virginia. Nor was there a decision against any title, right,
privilege, or immunity, claimed under the Constitution, or any
treaty, statute of, or commission held or authority exercised
under, the United States.
If, on other grounds, the judgment below impaired or failed
to give effect to the contract sued on, there is no authority here
to review it. Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379.
2. The Confederate government was a government in fact,
exercising supreme authority over the people of the States composing it, and its acts controlling their conduct must be their
legal vindication. The accepted writers on public law establish these propositions.
(a.) That a de facto government, enjoying belligerent rights,
has control over the territory it holds, and its laws are binding on all persons residing within its actual jurisdiction, in
connection with all things situate there or owing to an alien
enemy.
(b.) That the test of such de facto government is the num

Oct 1877.]

WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

her of the population adhering to it; the armies it organizes
in the field; the power it manifests in its resistance to the
enemy; the facts recognized or repudiated by the enemy, such
as interchanging prisoners of war, establishing blockades, &c.
We refer to the conclusions of law as contained in Wheaton's
International Treatise, p. 23, Dana's note, on the recognition of
belligerency. The Confederate government did comprehend,
in its influence and authority, every thing constituting belligerency, and the de facto power entitling it to such rights as grow
out of this condition of civil war. .ltauran v. Insurance Company, 6 Wall. 1; Thorington v. Smith, 8 id. 1.
If the belligerent government enacts a law of confiscation or
sequestration, and a debt is paid under its authority, the alien
creditor can never hold the debtor to a second liability. The
debt is extinguished just as if it had been paid to the creditor.
Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 227; Vattel, c. 3, pp. 8, 138, c. 9,
sect. 161; Brown v. United States, 8 Cranch, 126, 129; Kent
Com. 1, 59; Halleck, 365; Woolsey, 118.
The right of the government to confiscate and sequestrate
does not depend upon its being de jure. If it be de facto,
and possessed of belligerent rights, nothing more is required.
It is not the party, but the individual, who lives within its territory; and he is relieved, because it was not possible for him
legally to avoid the payment of the debt to a power which
he could not resist. It has been deemed better for society
that an alien enemy should lose his debt, than that his debtor
should be made twice to pay what he once has paid, according to the established rules of war and of nations. The
government de facto may fail to be a government de jure,
but the individual who holds the property of another may
rightfully surrender it at the demands and coercion of that
government.
We respectfully refer to the elaborate argument of Mr.
Green, in the case of .Keppel's Administrators v. Petersburg
Railroad Co. (Chase's Decisions, pp. 174-203), and to Prize
Cases (2 Black, 635); !horington. v. Smith, supra, and to
Vattel, p. 425; Wheaton, sect. 296; and to Halleck, on the
rights of belligerents, and the authority of de facto governments.

WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ot.

JUsTIcE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The question for our determination arises upon the special
pleas, and relates to the sufficiency of the facts therein set forth
as a defence; that is, to the effect of the sequestration of the
debt by the Confederate government as a bar to the action.
There is, however, a preliminary question to be considered.
It is contended by the defendant that the record presents no
ground for the exercise of our appellate jurisdiction. The
second section of the amendatory judiciary act of 1867, as
given in the Revised Statutes, provides for a review by this
court of the final judgment or decree of the highest court of
a State in which a decision could be had, in three classes of
cases.
1st, Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
and the decision is against their validity.
2d, Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of, or an authority exercised under, any State, on the ground
of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of
the United States, and the decision is in favor of their validity;
and,
3d, Where any title, right, privilege, or immunity is claimed
under the Constitution, or any treaty or statute of, or commission held or authority exercised under, the United States, and
the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or immunity
specially set up or claimed by either party under such Constitution, treaty, statute, commission, or authority.
It is upon the last two clauses that the jurisdiction of the
court is asserted by the plaintiffs; and we are of opinion that
it can be maintained upon both of them. The pleas aver that a
confederation was formed by Virginia and other States, called
the Confederate States of America, and that under a law of this
confederation, enforced in Virginia, the debt due to the plaintiffs was sequestrated. Now, the Constitution of the United
States prohibits any treaty, alliance, or confederation by one
State with another. The organization whose enactment is
pleaded cannot, therefore, be regarded in this court as having
any legal existence. It follows that whatever efficacy the enactment possessed in Virginia must be attributed to the sanction
MR.

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIJ S v. BRUFFY.

given to it by that State. Any enactment, from whatever
source originating, to which a State gives the force of Taw is a
statute of the State, within the meaning of the clause cited
relating to the jurisdiction of this court. It would be a narrow
construction to limit the term to such enactments as have gone
through various stages of consideration by the legislature.
There may be many acts authorized by the constitution of a
State, or by the convention that framed it, which have not been
submitted to the consideration of its legislature, yet have all
the efficacy of laws. By the only authority which can be
recognized as having any legal existence, that is, the State of
Virginia, this act of the unauthorized confederation was enforced as a law of the Commonwealth. Its validity was drawn
in question on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States; and the decision of the court below
was in favor of its validity. Its repugnancy was asserted in
this, that it impaired the obligation of the contract between the
plaintiffs and the deceased, and undertook to release the latter
from liability, contrary to the express prohibition of that instrument; and also in this, that it discriminated against the plaintiffs as citizens of a loyal State, and refused to them the same
privileges accorded to the citizens of Virginia, contrary to the
provision declaring that "the citizens of each State shall be
entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the
several States." This provision has been held, in repeated adjudications of this court, to prohibit discriminating legislation
by one State against the citizens of another State, and to secure
to them the equal protection of its laws, and the same freedom
possessed by its own citizens in the acquisition and enjoyment
of property. Gorfield v. Coryell, 4 Wash. C. C. 871; Ward v.
laryland, 12 Wall. 418; PauZ v. Virginia, 8 id. 168. The
enactment of the confederation which by the assent of Virginia
was enforced as a law in that Commonwealth, and which is now
invoked by the defendant, not only impaired, but attempted to
destroy, the obligation of the contract of the deceased with the
plaintiffs; and it discriminated against them as citizens of a
State that maintained its allegiance to the Union. The demurrers to the special pleas raised these objections. The decision
made involved the upholding of the Confederate enactment and

WrILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ot,

the denial of tWe immunity claimed by the plaintiffs. It could
not have been made without passing upon both of these points.
It is sufficient to give this court jurisdiction that, though not in
terms specially stated in the pleadings, they were necessarily
involved in the decision, and that without their consideration
the judgment would not have been rendered. We have no
doubt of our jurisdiction, and we proceed, therefore, to the
merits of the case.
Treating the Confederate enactment as a law of the State which
we can consider, there can be no doubt of its invalidity. The
constitutional provision prohibiting a State from passing a law
impairing the obligation of contracts, equally prohibits a State
from enforciug as a law an enactment of that character, from
whatever source originating. And the constitutional provision
securing to the citizens of each State the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States could not have a more
fitting application than in condemning as utterly void the act
under consideration here, which Virginia enforced as a law of
that Commonwealth; treating the plaintiffs as alien enemies
because of their loyalty to the Union, and decreeing for that
reason a sequestration of debts due to them by its citizens.
The defendant, however, takes the ground that the enactment
of the Confederate States is that of an independent nation, and
must be so treated in this case. His contention is substantially
this: that the Confederate government, from April, 1861, until
it was overthrown in 1865, was a government de facto, complete in all its parts, exercising jurisdiction over a well-defined
territory, which included that portion of Virginia where the
deceased resided, and as such defacto government it engaged in
war with the United States; and possessed, and was justified
in exercising within its territorial limits, all the rights of war
which belonged to an independent nation, and, among them,
that of confiscating debts due by its citizens to its enemies.
In support of this position, reference is made to numerous
instances of de facto governments which have existed in England and in other parts of Europe and in America; to the
doctrines of jurists and writers on public law respecting the
powers of such governments, and the validity accorded to their
acts; to the opinion of this court in Thorington v. Smith and in

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

the P2'e Cases; to the concession of belligerent rights to the
Confederate government; and to the action of the States during
our own revolutionary war and the period immediately following it.
We do not question the doctrines of public law which have
been invoked, nor their application in proper cases; but it will
be found, upon examination, that there is an essential difference
between the government of the Confederate States and those
de facto governments. The latter are of two kinds. One of
them is such as exists after it has expelled the regularly constituted authorities from the seats of power and the public
offices, and established its own functionaries in their places, so
as to represent in fact the sovereignty of the nation. Such was
the government of England under the Commonwealth established upon the execution of the king and the overthrow of the
loyalists. As far as other nations are concerned, such a government is treated as in most respects possessing rightful authority;
its contracts and treaties are usually enforced; its acquisitions
are retained; its legislation is in general recognized; and the
rights acquired under it are, with few exceptions, respected
after the restoration of the authorities which were expelled.
All that counsel say of defacto governments is justly said of a
government of this .kind. But the Confederate government was
not of this kind. It never represented the nation, it never expelled the public authorities from the country, it never entered
into any treaties, nor was it ever recognized as that of an independent power. It collected an immense military force, and
temporarily expelled the authorities of the United States from
the territory over which it exercised an usurped dominion: but
in that expulsion the United States never acquiesced; on the
contrary, they immediately resorted to similar force to regain
possession of that territory and re-establish their authority,
and they continued to use such force until they succeeded. It
would be useless to comment upon the striking contrast between
a government of this nature, which, with all its military strength,
never had undisputed possession of power for a single day, and
a government like that of the Commonwealth of England under
Parliament or Cromwell.
The other kind of de facto governments, to which the doc-

WILLIAMS

v. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct,

trines cited relate, is such as exists where a portion of the
inhabitants of a country have separated themselves from the
parent State and established an independent government.
The validity of its acts, both against the parent State and its
citizens or subjects, depends entirely upon its ultimate success.
If it fail to establish itself permanently, all such acts perish
with it. If it succeed, and become recognized, its acts from the
commencement of its existence are upheld as those of an independent nation. Such was the case of the State governments
under the old confederation on their separation from the British
crown. Having made good their declaration of independence,
every thing they did from that date was as valid as if their
independence had been at once acknowledged. Confiscations,
therefore, of enemy's property made by them were sustained as if
made by an independent nation. But if they had failed in securing their independence, and the authority of the King had been
re-established in this country, no one would contend that their
acts against him, or his loyal subjects, could have been upheld
as resting upon any legal foundation.
No case has been cited in argument, and we think none can
be found, in which the acts of a portion of a State unsuccessfully attempting to establish a separate revolutionary government have been sustained as a matter of legal right. As justly
observed by the late Chief Justice in Sltortridge & Co. v.
Macon, decided at the circuit, and, in all material respects, like
the one at bar, "Those who engage in rebellion must consider the consequences. If they succeed, rebellion becomes
revolution, and the new government will justify its founders.
If they fail, all their acts hostile to the rightful government are
violations of law, and originate no rights which can be recognized by the courts of the nation whose authority and existence
have been alike assailed." Chase's Decisions, 136.
When a rebellion becomes organized, and attains such proportions as to be able to put a formidable military force in the
field, it is usual for the established government to concede to it
some belligerent rights. This concession is made in the interests of humanity, to prevent the cruelties which would inevitably follow mutual reprisals and retaliations. But belligerent
rights, as the terms import, are rights which exist only during

0c5t. 1877.]

WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

war; and to what extent they shall be accorded to insurgents
depends upon the considerations of justice, humanity, and
policy controlling the government. The rule stated by Vattel,
that the justice of the cause between two enemies being by the
law of nations reputed to be equal, whatsoever is permitted to
the one in virtue of war is also permitted to the other, applies
only to cases of regular war between independent nations. It
has no application to the case of a war between an established
government, and insurgents seeking to withdraw themselves
from its jurisdiction or to overthrow its authority. Halleck's
ihter. Law, c. 14, sect. 9. The concession made to the Confederate government in its military character -was shown in the
treatment of captives as prisoners of war, the exchange of
prisoners, the recognition of flags of truce, the release of officers on parole, and other arrangements having a tendency to
mitigate the evils of the contest. The concession placed its
soldiers and military officers in its service on the footing of
those engaged in lawful war, and exempted them from liability
for acts of legitimate warfare. But it conferred no further
immunity or any other rights. It in no respect condoned acts
against the government not committed by armed force in the
military service of the rebellious organization; it sanctioned
no hostile legislation; it gave validity to no contracts for military stores; and it impaired in no respect the rights of loyal
citizens as they had existed at the commencement of hostilities. Parties residing in the insurrectionary territory, having
property in their possession as trustees or bailees of loyal
citizens, may in some instances have had such property taken
from them by force; and in that event they may perhaps be
released from liability. Their release will depend upon the
same principles which control in ordinary cases of violence
by an unlawful combination too powerful to be successfully
resisted.
But, debts not being tangible things subject to physical seizure and removal, the debtors cannot claim release from liability
to their creditors by reason of the coerced payment of equivalent sums to an unlawful combination. The debts can only be
satisfied when paid to the creditors to -whom they are due, or
to others by direction of lawful authority. Any sum which

WILLIAMS V. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Or.

the unlawful combination may have compelled the debtors to
pay to its agents on account of debts to loyal citizens cannot
have any effect upon their obligations: they remain subsisting
and unimpaired. The concession of belligerent rights to the
rebellious organization yielded nothing to its pretensions of
legality. If it had succeeded in its contest, it would have protected the debtor from further claim for the debt; but, as it
failed, the creditor may have recourse to the courts of the
country as prior to the rebellion. It would be a strange thing
if the nallon, after succeeding in suppressing the rebellion and
re-establishing its authority over the insurrectionary district,
should, by any of its tribunals, recognize as valid the attempt
of the rebellious organization to confiscate a debt due to a loyal
citizen as a penalty for his loyalty. Such a thing would be
unprecedented in the history of unsuccessful rebellions, and
would rest upon no just principle.
The immense power exercised by the government of the
Confederate States for nearly four years, the territory over
which it extended, the vast resources it wielded, and the millions who acknowledged its authority, present an imposing
spectacle well fitted to mislead the mind in considering the
legal character of that organization. It claimed to represent
an independent nation and to possess sovereign powers; and as
such to displace the jurisdiction and authority of the United
States from nearly half of their territory, and, instead of their
laws, to substitute and enforce those of its own enactment.
Its pretensions being resisted, they were submitted to the arbitrament of war. In that contest the Confederacy failed; and
in its failure its pretensions were dissipated, its armies scattered, and the whole fabric of its government broken in pieces.
The very property it had amassed passed to the nation. The
United States, during the whole contest, never for one moment
renounced their claim to supreme jurisdiction over the whole
country, and to the allegiance of every citizen of the republic.
They never acknowledged in any form, or through any of their
departments, the lawfulness of the rebellious organization or
the validity of any of its acts, except so far as such acknowledgment may have arisen from conceding to its armed forces
in the condu t of the war the standin2 tnd rights of those

Oct. 1877.]

WILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

engaged in lawful warfare. They never recognized its asserted
power of rightful legislation.
There is nothing in the language used in Thorington v. Smith
(8 Wall. 1) which conflicts with these views. In that case,
the Confederate government is characterized as one of para'mount force, and classed among the governments of which the
one maintained by Great Britain in Castine, from September,
1814, to the treaty of peace in 1815, and the one maintained
by the United States in Tampico, during our war with Mexico,
are examples. Whilst the British retained possession of Castine, the inhabitants were held to be subject to such laws as
the British government chose to recognize and impose. Whilst
the United States retained possession of Tampico, it was held
that it must be regarded and respected as their territory. The
Confederate government, the court observed, differed from
these temporary governments in the circumstance that its
authority did not originate in lawful acts of regular war: but it
was not, on that account, less actual or less supreme; and its
supremacy, while not justifying acts of hostility to the United
States, "made obedience to its authority in civil and local
matters not only a necessity, but a duty." All that was
meant by this language was, that as the actual supremacy of
the Confederate government existed over certain territory,
individual resistance to its authority then would have been
futile, and, therefore, unjustifiable. In the face of an overwhelming force, obedience in such matters may often be a
necessity, and, in the interests of order, a duty. No concession is thus made to the rightfulness of the authority exercised.
Nor is there any thing in the decision of this court in the
Prize Cases which militates against the views expressed. It
was there simply held, that when parties in rebellion had
occupied and held in a hostile manner a portion of the territory
of the country, declared their independence, cast off their allegiance, organized armies, and commenced hostilities against
the government of the United States, war existed; that the
President was bound to recognize the fact, and meet it without
waiting for the action of Congress; that it was for him to determine what degree of force the crisis demanded, and whether
the hostile forces were of such magnitude as to require him to

NV]ILLIAMS v. BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

accord to them the character of belligerents; and that he bad
the right to institute a blockade of ports in their possession,
which neutrals were bound to recognize. It was also held, that
as the rebellious parties had formed a confederacy, and thus
become an -rganized body, and the territory dominated by
them was. defined, and the President had conceded to this
organization in its military character belligerent rights, all the
territory must be regarded as enemy's territory, and its inhabitants as enemies, whose property on the high seas would be
lawful subjects of capture. There is nothing in these doctrines
which justified the Confederate States in claiming the status of
foreign States during the war, or in treating the inhabitants of
the loyal States as alien enemies.
Nor is there anything in the citations so often made from
Wheaton and Vattel, as to the rights of contending parties in
a civil war, which, if properly applied, militates against these
views. After stating that, according to Grotius, a civil war is
public on the side of the established government, and private
on the part of the people resisting its authority, Wheaton says:
"But the general usage of nations regards such a war as entitling both the contending parties to all the rights of war as
against each other, and even as respects neutral nations."
Wheaton, int. Law, sect. 296. The writer is here referring
to the consideration with which foreign nations treat a civil
war in another country. So far as they are concerned, the
contending parties to such a war, once recognized as belligerents, are regarded as entitled to all the rights of war. As
between the belligerent parties, foreign nations, from general
usage, are expected to observe a strict neutrality. The language used has no reference to the rights which a sovereign
must concede, or is expected to concede, to insurgents in armed
rebellion against his authority. Upon the doctrine stated in
the citation the United States acted towards the contending
parties in the civil war in South America. In speaking on
this subject, in the case of The Santissima Trinidad (7 Wheat.
283), this court said: "The government of the United States
has recognized the existence of a civil war between Spain and
her colonies, and has avowed a determination to remain neutral
between the parties, and to allow to each the same rights of

Oct. 1877.]

W1LLIAias v. BRUFFY.

asylum and hospitality and intercourse. Each party is, therefore, deemed by us a belligerent nation, having, so far as concerns
us, the sovereign rights of war, and entitled to be respected in
the exercise of those rights. We cannot interfere to the prejudice of either belligerent, without making ourselves a party to
the contest, and departing from the position of neutrality."
Vattel says: "A civil war breaks the bands of society and
government, or, at least, suspends their force and effect; it
produces in the nation two independent parties, who consider
each other as enemies, and acknowledge no common judge.
Those two parties, therefore, must necessarily be considered as
thenceforward constituting, at least for a tiine, two separate
bodies, two distinct societies. . . . On earth they have no
common superior. They stand, therefore, in precisely the
same predicament as two nations who engage in a contest, and,
being unable to come -to an agreement, have recourse to arms.
This being the case, it is very evident that the common laws
of war- those maxims of humanity, moderation, and honor,
which we have already detailed in the course of this workought to be observed by both parties in every civil war. For
the same reasons which render the observance of those maxims
a matter of obligation betweeu State and State, it becomes
'equally and even more necessary in the unhappy circumstance
of two incensed parties lacerating their common country."
Vattel, Law of Nations, p. 425. All that. Vattel means by
this language is, that in a civil war the contending parties have
a right to claim the enforcement of the same rules which
govern the conduct of armies in wars between independent
nations, -rules intended to mitigate the cruelties which would
attend mutual reprisals and retaliations. He has no reference
to the exercise of legislative power by either belligerent in
furtherance of its cause. The validity of such legislation
depends not upon the existence of hostilities, but upon the ultimate success of the party by which it is adopted.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further. Whatever
de facto character may be ascribed to the Confederate government consists solely in the fact, that it maintained a contest
with the United States for nearly four years, and dominated for
that .period over a large extent of territory. When its military

WILLIAMS

v.

BRUFFY.

[Sup. Ct.

forces were overthrown, it utterly perished, and with it adlits
enactments. Whilst it existed, it was regarded, as said in
Thorington v. Smith, "as simply the military representative of
the insurrection against the authority of the United States."
8 Wall. 1; Keppel's Adm'rs v. PetersburgRailroad Co., Chase's
Decisions, 167.
Whilst thus holding that there was no validity in any legislation of the Confederate States which this court can recognize, it is proper to observe that the legislation of the States
stands on very different grounds. The same general form of
government, the same general laws for the administration of
justice and the protection of private rights, which had existed
in the States prior to the rebellion, remained during its continuance and afterwards. As far as the acts of the States did
not impair, or tend to impair, the supremacy of the national
authority, or the just rights of citizens under the Constitution,
they are, in general, to be treated as valid and binding. As we
said in Horn v. Loolchart (17 Wall. 570): "The existence of
a state of insurrection and war did not loosen the bonds of
society, or do away with civil government or the regular
administration of the laws. Order was to be preserved, police
regulations maintained, crime prosecuted, property protected,
contracts enforced, marriages celebrated, estates settled, and
the transfer and descent of property regulated, precisely as in
time of peace. No one, that we are aware of, seriously questions the validity of judicial or legislative acts in the insurrectionary States touching these and kindred subjects, where they
were not hostile in their purpose or mode of enforcement to
the authority of the national government, and did not impair
the rights of citizens under the Constitution." The same doctrine has been asserted in nuierous other cases.
It follows from the views expressed that the State court
erred in overruling the demurrers to the special pleas. Those
demurrers should have been sustained, and the plaintiffs should
have had judgment upon the agreed statement of facts for the
amount of their claim, with interest from its maturity, deducting in the computation of time the period between the 27th of
April, 1861, at which date the war is considered to have commenced in Virginia, and the 2d of April, 1866, when it is

Oct. 1877.]

DEWING V. PERDICARIES.

deemed to have closed in that State. The Protector,12 Wall.
700; Brown v. Hiatts, 15 id. 177.
The action of the Court of Appeals of Virginia in refusing a
supersedeas of the judgment of the Circuit Court must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

DEWING

V.

PERDICARIES.

1. All acts done in aid of the rebellion were illegal and void.
2. Pursuant to a statute of the Confederate States, and to an order of the Confederate District Court for the District of South Carolina, certain shares
of the stock of a corporation of that State were, upon the ground that the
owners of them were alien enemies, sequestrated and sold in 1862 at public
auction; and the company was required to erase from its stock-books the
names of such owners, insert those of the purchasers, and issue stock certificates to them. All dividends thereafter from time to time declared were
paid to the purchasers, against whom, or their assignees, and the company,
this bill was filed by an original stockholder, praying for a decree that the
certificates so issued b: cancelled as null and void, and the defendants enjoined from selling them, bringing suits to effect the transfer thereof, or
collect dividends therec.n, and the company from allowing such transfers,
issuing new certificates for the same, or paying such dividends. The court
decreed accordingly. HJdd, 1. That the order of sequestration, the sale, the
transfer on the stock-hotoks of the company, and the new certificates, were
void, giving no right to the purchasers or to their assignees, and taking none
from the original owners. 2. That the bill was well brought, and the corporation a proper party defendant. 3. That the purchasers, or their assignees,
have no claim against the company for indemnity; but if, under the circumstances, entitled to any redress, they must seek it by suit againtt the parties
by whom they claim to have been defrauded.

APPF_ from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of South Carolina.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
21r. Philip Philli~s and Hr. Bdward MeCrady for the
appellants.
Mr. . B. Young and Hfr. W. D. Porter,contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
There is no controversy about the material facts of this case.

At the beginning of the late civil war, the Charleston Gas.
VOL. VI.

13

