INSURANCE 0o. V. MOWRY.

[Sup. Ct

INSURANCE COMPANY v. MoWRY.
1. The only case where a representation as to the future can operate as an estoppel is where it relates to the purposed abandonment of an existing right, and
was intended to influence, and has influenced, the conduct of the party to
whom it was made. A promise as to future action, touching a right dependent upon a contract to be thereafter entered into, does not create an
estoppel.
2. The promise of an insurance company, that if a party will take out a policy
lie shall be notified when to pay the annual premiums before lie shall be
required to pay them, will not, although such notice is not given, estop the
company from setting up the forfeiture which, according to the terms of
the policy subsequently accepted, was incurred on the non-payment of the
premium when due.
8. The policy issued by the company and accepted by the assured must, in a court
of law, be taken as expressing the final agreement of the parties, and as
merging all previous verbal stipulations.
4. The court in this case holds that the authority of the local agent of the company was limited to countersigning the policy and receiving the premiums.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Rhode Island.
This was an action by Daniel A. Mowry, upon a policy of
'insurance for the sum of $10,000, issued to him, for his sole
benefit, by the Union Mutual Life Insurance Company, -a corporation created by the laws of Maine, -upon the life of Nelson
H. Mowry.
The facts of the case and the instructions to the jury are
stated in the opinion of the court.
The concluding clause of the policy is as follows: "But the
same [the policy] shall not be binding until countersigned and
delivered by John Shepley, agent at Providence, R. I., nor until
the advance premium is paid."
There was a verdict for the plaintiff ; and, judgment having
been rendered thereon, the defendant sued out this writ of
error.
Mr. Benjamin F. Thurston and 3ir. Charles i.
for the plaintiff in error.

Parkhurst

The representations of Shepley, relating to the rights and
liabilities of the parties to a contract to be executed in futuro,
are not matter of estoppel; but, if they were, there must be
proof that the company authorized him to make them, or subse-

Oct. 18T7.]

INSURANCE CO. v. MOWRY.

quently ratified them. There was no such proof. The only
ratification is contained in the last clause of the policy, and
his authority is there expressly limited to countersigning and
delivering that instrument and receiving the premium. His
promise that the company would give timely notice to the
plaintiff when the premiums were due did not bind the company, nor waive the forfeiture incurred by the non-payment of
them.
The policy determines the rights of the parties; and its provisions cannot, in the absence of fraud, be defeated by the verbal
agreements, or the conduct of the parties or their agents, which
preceded its execution and delivery.
The instructions of the learned judge below were evidently
erroneous.
-ir. J. J. Storrow, contra.
The failure of the plaintiff to pay the second premium ad
diem was owing to the conduct of Shepley. He was the agent
of the company to negotiate the contract of insurance and give
validity to it by his signature, as well as to receive the premium. As no limitation of his authority was proved, the jury
were warranted in inferring that none existed, and that his
representations and promises which misled the plaintiff were
those of the company. The latter was therefore estopped from
setting up the clause of forfeiture. Insurance Company v. Wilkinson, 13 Wall. 222; Same v. Mahone, 21 id. 152; Rockford
Insurance Co. v. Nelson, 75 Ill. 548; Boos v. World Mutual
LIfe Insurance Co., Thomp. & C. (N. Y.) 364; Mayer v. The
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of Chicago, 38 Iowa, 304.
MR. JUSTicE FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action on a policy of insurance, issued by the
Union Mutual Life Insurance Company, a corporation created
under the laws of Maine, upon the life of Nelson H. Mowiy. for
the sum of .1$0,000. The insurance was effected by a nephew of
the insured, for his sole benefit. The nephew was at the time
a creditor of the insured to the extent of 6$6,000, and had agreed
to embark with him in an enterprise requiring the expenditure
of considerable capital, and depending for its success upon the
VOL. VI.

Z

INSURANCE

CO. V. MOWRY.

[Sup. Ct.

knowledge and skill of the insured in business. These circumstances gave the nephew such an interest in the life of the
insured as to prevent the policy from being a wager one. The
insurance effected was from the 9th of March, 1867, and the
policy recited the payment of the first annual premium on that
day, and stipulated for the payment of the subsequent premiums
on the same day of that month each year. The payment of the
insurance money, after notice and proof of the death of the insured, was made dependent upon the punctual payment, each
year, of the premium. The policy, in terms, declared that it was
made and accepted by the insured and the nephew, upon the express condition that if the amount of any annual premium was
not fully paid on the day and in the manner provided, the policy
should be "null and void, and wholly forfeited." And it declared that no agent of the company, except the president and
secretary, could waive such forfeiture, or alter that or any other
condition of the policy.
The second premium, due on the 9th of March, 1868, was
not paid, and the insured died on the 8th of April following. Forty-five days after it was due, and fifteen days after
the death of the insured, this premium was tendered to the
company, and was refused. The question for determination
is, whether a tender of the premium at that time was suffi
cient to hold the company to the payment of the insurance
money.
By the express condition of the policy, the liability of the
company was released upon the failure of the insured to pay
the premium when it matured; and the plaintiff could not
recover, unless the force of this condition could in some way be
overcome. He sought to overcome it, by showing that the
agent, who induced him to apply for the policy, represented to
him, in answer to suggestions that he might not be informed
when to pay the premiums, that the company would notify
hint in season to pay them, and that he need not give himself
any uneasiness on that subject; that no such notification was
given to him before the maturity of the second premium, and
for that reason he did not pay it at the time required. This
representation before the policy was issued, it was contended

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. V. MOWRY.

in the court below, and in this court, constituted an estoppel
upon the company against insisting upon the forfeiture of the
policy.
But to this position there is an obvious and complete answer.
All previous verbal arrangements were merged in the written
agreement. The understanding of the parties as to the amount
of the insurance, the conditions upon which it should be payable, and the premium to be paid, was there expressed, for the
very purpose of avoiding any controversy or question respecting
them. The entire engagement of the parties, with all the conditions upon which its fulfilment could be claimea, must be
conclusively presumed to be there stated. If, by inadvertence
or mistake, provisions other than those intended were inserted,
or stipulated provisions were omitted, the parties could have had
recourse for a correction of the agreement to a court of equity,
which is competent to give all needful relief in such cases.
But, until thus corrected, the policy must be taken as expressing the final understanding of the assured and of the-insurance
company.
The previous representation of the agent could in no respect
operate as an estoppel against the company. Apart from the
circumstance that the policy subsequently issued alone expressed
its contract, an estoppel from the representations of a party can
seldom arise, except where the representation relates to a matter of fact, - to a present or past state of things. If the representation relate to something to be afterwards brought into
existence, it will amount only to a declaration of intention or of
opinion, liable to modification or abandonment upon a change
of circumstances of which neither party can have any certain
knowledge. The only case in which a representation as to the
future can be held to operate as an estoppel is where it relates
to an intended abandonment of an existing right, and is made
to influence others, and by which they have been induced to
act. An estoppel cannot arise from a promise as to future
action with respect to a right to be acquired upon an agreement
not yet made.
The doctrine of estoppel is applied with respect to representations of a party, to prevent their operating as a fraud upon ono

INSURANCE CO. v. MOWRY.

[Sup. Gt.

who has been led to rely upon them. They would have that
effect, if a party who, by his statements as to matters of fact, or
as to his intended abandonment of existing rights, had designedly induced another to change his conduct or alter his condition
in reliance upon them, could be permitted to deny the truth of
his statements, or enforce his rights against his declared intention of abandonment. But the doctrine has no place for
application when the statement relates to rights depending upon
contracts yet to be made, to which the person complaining is to
be a party. He has it in his power in such cases to guard in
advance against any consequences of a subsequent change of
intention and conduct by the person with whom he is dealing.
For compliance with arrangements respecting future transactions, parties must provide by stipulations in their agreements
when reduced to writing. The doctrine carried to the extent
for which the assured contends in this case would subvert the
salutary rule, that the written contract must prevail over previous verbal arrangements, and open the door to all the evils
which that rule was intended to prevent. White v. Ashton, 51
N. Y. 280; Bigelow, Estoppel, 437-441; White v. Walker, 31
Ill. 422; Paxton v. Faxon, 28 Mich. 159.
The learned judge who tried this case in the Circuit Court
instructed the jury, in substance, that if they could find from
the language of the agent that there was an agreement between
him and the assured, made before the policy was executed, that
the latter should have notice before he should be required to
pay the annual premium, then that the company, not having
given such notice, was estopped from setting up the forfeiture
stipulated by the policy for non-payment of the premium when
due. For the reasons we have stated, we think the court erred
in this instruction.
There is nothing in the record which shows that the agent
was invested with authority to make an insurance for the company. In representing himself as an agent, he only solicited an
application by the assured to the company for a policy. That
instrument was to be drawn and issued by the company, and it
shows on its face that the authority to the agent was limited to
countersigning it beforp delivery and to receiving the premiums.

Oct. 1877.1

SCHUMACHER V. CORNELL.

But even if the agent had possessed authority to make an insurance for the company, and he made the agreement pretended,
still the assured -was bound by the terms of the policy subsequently executed and accepted by him.
The judgment must be reversed, and the cause remanded
for a new trial; and it is

So oydered.

SCHUMACHER v. CORINELL.
1. Letters-patent No. 133,533, granted Dec. 3, 1872, to William Johnson, for an
improvement in wrenches, do not infringe reissued letters-patent No. 5026,
granted Aug. 6, 1872, to John Lacey and George B. Cornell, for an improvement in wrenches for extracting bung-bushes.
2. The doctrine of mechanical equivalents has no application to this case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Wisconsin.
This is a suit by George B. Cornell, against Eilert Schumacher and William Johnson, for an injunction, and for damages
claimed for the alleged infringement by them of reissued letters-patent No. 5026, granted Aug. 6, 1872, to John Lacey and
George B. Cornell, for an improvement in wrenches for extracting bung-bushes; said letters being a reissue of original letters
No. 118,617, dated Aug. 29, 1871.
The defendants justified under letters-patent No. 183,536,
issued to Johnson Dec. 3, 1872, for an improvement in
wrenches.
The specification and claim of both patents are fully stated
in the opinion of the court.
The drawings tiherein referred to are as follows:-

