WHEELER V. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Slip. M

mitted thus to mend his hold. He is estopped from doing it
by a settled principle of law. Gold v. Banks, 8 Wend. (N. Y.)
562; Holbrook v. White, 24 id. 169; Everett v. Saltus, 15 id.
474; Wright v. Reed, 3 Durnf. & E. 554; -vffy v. O'Donovan,
46 N. Y. 223; Winter v. Coit, 7 id. 288. The judge below
committed no error in refusing to charge as requested upon this
aubject.
Judgment affirmed

WHEELER v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

Suit by a national bank upon a bill of exchange. Defence, usury. The bank,
in discounting the bill, reserved a greater amount than was allowed for inter,
est by the law of the State where it was situated. There was no proof of the
current rate of exchange. Held, that the bank was entitled to recover.

to the Superior Court of the city of New York.
This suit was brought by the Union National Bank of Pittsburg, Pa., against George M. Wheeler, as indorser of two
bills of exchange, one dated Jan. 20, 1871, for $10,000, and
one dated March 8, 1871, for $5,000, drawn by Slack, superintendent of the Brady's Bend Iron Company, on and accepted
by the treasurer of said company, pursuant to authority vested
in him for that purpose, and payable sixty days after their
respective dates at the American Exchange National Bank of
New York. The plaintiff discounted both bills for the benefit
of the company : the first on the twenty-fourth day of January,
1871, and the second on the day of its date, - the company
receiving the amount mentioned in the bills, less the sum of
0246.
The rate of interest in Pennsylvania was six per cent per
wnnum.
Said bills were duly protested for non-payment, and notice
given to the defendant. There was no proof of the rate of
exchange when they were discounted.
There was a judgment in favor of the bank, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,
and the record remitted to the inferior court. Wheeler then
brought the case here by a writ of error.
ERROR

Oct. 1877.]

WHEELER V. NATIONAL BANK.

Mr. Mamas H. WVheeler for the plaintiff in error.

Mfr. Joseph M. Dixon, contra.
MR.JusTICE HArTAT delivered the opinion of the court.
The controlling question presented in this case for our determination involves -the construction of the National Currency
Act of June 8, 1864 (13 Stat. 108), which declares that "the
knowingly taking, receiving, reserving, or charging a rate of
interest greater" than that "allowed by the laws of the State
or Territory where the bank is located," shall be "held and
adjudged a forfeiture of the entire interest which the bill, note,
or other evidence of debt carries with it, or which has been
agreed to be paid thereon." The same section also declares :
"But the purchase, discount, or sale of a bona fide bill of exchange, payable at another place than the place of such
purchase, discount, or sale, at not more than the current rate
of exchange for sight drafts in addition to the interest, shall
not be considered as taking or receiving a greater rate of
interest."
Wheeler, the plaintiff in error, was sued as indorser upon
two bills of exchange, drawn at Brady's Bend, Pa., payable
sixty days after date at the American Exchange Bank, in New
York, and discounted by the Union National Bank of Pittsburg
for the benefit of the Brady's Bend Iron Company, a corporation
created under the laws of Pennsylvania. Wheeler claims that
the bank, under the provisions of the statute, forfeited the entire interest which the bills carried, or which was agreed to
be paid. This claim was denied: first, in the Superior Court
for the city and county of New York, where this action was
commenced; and, subsequently, in the Court of Appeals of that
State.
No question having been raised as to the bona fide character
of the bills, the bank had, by the express words of the statute,
the right to charge and receive the current rate of exchange
for sight drafts, in addition to interest at the rate of six per cent
per annum, which is the rate fixed by general statute in the
State of Pennsylvania. But, upon examining the special finding
of facts upon which the State court based its judgment, we discover no evidence of the current rate of exchange at the date

WHEELER

v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

[Sup. Or.

of discount. That exchange was, in fact, charged cannot be
gainsaid by Wheeler, since he avers, in his answer, that the
bills were discounted under an usurious agreement that the
bank should receive, in addition to certain interest in excess
of the statutory rate, commissions or exchange of one-quarter
of one per cent. No such agreement was, however, proven.
Indeed, the record furnishes no evidence of any distinct agree:
ment, either as to the amount of interest or exchange to be
reserved by the bank upon discounting the bills. Nothing
seems to have been said at the time of discount as to the
amount to be reserved by way of interest or upon the subject
of exchange, and the court refused, upon the request of
Wheeler, to find it as a fact in the case, that "no exchange
was charged." While it may be inferred that exchange was
charged by the bank, we are uninformed by the record 'whether
it exceeded the current rate for sight drafts.
The statute should be liberally construed to effect the ends
for which it was passed; but a forfeiture under its provisions
shouh not be declared, unless the facts upon which it must rest
are clearly established. It should appear affirmatively that the
bank knowingly received or reserved an amount in excess of
the statutory rate of interest, and the current exchaige for
sight drafts. There is no proof of the rate of exchlange;
and, since the courts uniformly incline against the declaration
of a forfeiture, the party seeking such declaration should be
held to make convincing proof of every fact essential to forfeit ure.
It is unnecessary to consider any other question in the
c,ase.

Judgment affirmed.

