Get. 1877.]

.ATHERTON

V.

FowLER.

franchise was, in 1862, foreclosed by the mortgagees, who
acquired the property and formed a new corporation. This
new corporation was, by the statute which authorized it,
declared invested with the legal rights and immunities of the
original corporation. When it afterwards consolidated with
the Maine Central, its rights and immunities passed to that
company, only to the extent and subject to the same limitations
as those of the original two companies.
It follows that there is no error in the judgment of the
Supreme Court of Maine; and it is, therefore,

4flirmed.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

ATHERTON v. FowLER.
1. No right of pre-emption can be established by a settlement and improvement
on a tract of public land where the claimant forcibly intruded upon the
possession of one who bad already settled upon, improved, and enclosed that
tract.
2. Such an intrusion, though made under pretence of pre-empting the land, is but
a naked, unlawful trespass, and cannot initiate a right of pre-emption.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MT. Montgomery Blair for the plaintiff in error.

1H. 5S. . Phillips, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case originates in an action of replevin brought by Page,
who died during the progress of the litigation, and is now represented by Atherton, his executor, the plaintiff in error. The
plaintiff below obtained possession of the hay, which was the
subject of the writ of replevin; but, on trial before a jury, they
found he was not entitled to the possession, and judgment for
the value of the hay was rendered against him. This judgment was affirmed on appeal to the Supreme Court of the State,
and is now brought before us for review on questions which
VOT. V1.

33

ATHERTON

V. FOWLER.

[,Sup. (Jt.'

relate to the rights acquired in the soil from which the hay was
cut, or rather which might have been acquired to such soil
under acts of Congress.
The hay, which is the subject of controversy, was cut in the
summer of 1863, on part of the land embraced within the Vallejo grant of the Soscol ranch.
The history of the title to that ranch is given in the report
of Prisbie v. Whitney, 9 Wall. 187. The claim of Vallejo to
the confirmation of the grant was finally decided against him
in this court, March 22, 1862. By virtue of the thiiteenth
section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1851 (9 Stat. 633),
the land embraced within his claim became public land of the
United States whenever it was finally decided to be invalid.
No public survey had been extended over these lands at that
time, and the whole of the Soscol ranch was held in possession,
and had been for years, under the Mexican patent to Vallejo,
%nd by tenants or purchasers under his title.
:Nevertheless, a large number of persons who had previously
no interest in or claim to or possession of any part of this land
invaded it by force, tore down the fences, dispossessed those
who occupied it, and built on and cultivated parts of it, uinder
pretence of establishing a right of pre-emption to the several
parts which they so seized. The general character of this
movement is well described in Frisbie v. Whitney, supra.
The defendants in this case, though taking no part in the
night invasion mentioned in that case, did, during the spring
and summer of 1862 and 1863, enter upon the lands in the possession of Page, - land which in every instance was enclosed
within fences, and which was in actual cultivation. And this
entry was without asking the consent, or having in any way
the permission, of those in possession, but by forcibly driving
them out. The hay, which is the subject of the controversy,
was cut from meadows or grounds set in grass by Page. These
facts are stated, or evidence from which the jury had a right
to infer them, in a case made by the parties, on which the
Supreme Couit finally decided it.
But Congress, on the third day of March, 1863, enacted that
all settlers on the land claiming under Vallejo might enter the
land held by them to the extent of their actual possession at

Oct. 1877.]

ATHERTON V. FOWLER.

$1.25 per acre, and have a patent for the same as soon as the
surveys were extended over the ranch. So that, when the hay
in controversy was cut, the defendants knew, or should have
known, hat they were mere trespassers on the lands of Page,
and had no right to the hay.
It is, however, to be considered that there is the doctrine
that a person having the legal title to land, but out of possession, cannot maintain the action of replevin for hay or timbercut on the land. This general doctrine has been modified both
by statute and by judicial decision in the several States, until it is
not easy to say exactly how much of it is left in any one of the
States. In the case before us, the court, on the trial, gave the
law on the subject very clearly; and, as it is a doctrine not
affected by the Constitution or laws of the United States, we
must take it to have been correctly expounded to the jury.
The court instructed them, that, if plaintiff was in the actual
possession of the land when the defendants entered, there was
no disseisin; and the subsequent possession of defendants did
not oust that of the plaintiff, unless they found that they had
entered in good faith, with intent to pre-empt the land on which
the hay was cut, and that they had the actual possession of it
at the time the hay was cut. To the last part of this instruction plaintiff excepted. The court also said: "If you believe
from the evidence that the defendants entered in good faith,
with intention to pre-empt the land on which the hay was cut,
and had actual posssession of it at the time the hay was
cut, your verdict should be for the defendants."
The plaintiff asked the court to charge the jury, that, if he
was in the actual possession of the land, having cultivated it
for several years previously, and the defendants broke through
his enclosure against his consent, the entry was unlawful,
though the land might be public land, the prior right of preemption belonging to him who had the prior and continued
possession. This the court refused.
In short, it is obvious that the case was made by the court to
turn on the assumption that the land was, in its then condition,
liable to be pre-empted by defendants, against the wishes of
plaintiff, and that, to effect the entry and cultivation necessary
to establish the right of pre-emption, the defendants could, by

ATHERTON

v. FOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

force and violence and by breaking into an actual enclosure
and by turning the plaintiff out, acquire such right of pre-emption, and at the same time a bona fide possession.
Unless the laws of the United States justify this conduct, the
instructions of the court were erroneous, and to the prejudice of
the plaintiff in a matter involving his rights under the acts of
Congress.
At the time this action was tried, Page bad obtained title
to the land under the act of March 3, 1865. This related back
to his possession under the Vallejo grant; and the title in this
action was not disputed. It was simply a question before the
court in that trial, therefore, whether the intention to pre-empt
the land changed what would otherwise have been a mere trespass into a bona fide possession which would defeat the present
action.
Undoubtedly, there have been cases, and may be cases again,
where two persons making settlement on different parts of the
same quarter-section of land may present conflicting claims
to the right of pre-emption of the whole quarter-section, and
neither of them be a trespasser upon the possession of the other,
for the reason that the quarter-section is open, unenclosed, and
neither party interferes with the actual possession of the other.
In such cases, the settlement of the later of the two may be
bonafide, for many reasons. The first party may not have the
qualifications necessary to a pre-emptor, or he may have preempted other land, or he may have permitted the time for filing
his declaration to elapse, in which case the statute expressly
declares that another person may become pre-emptor, or it may
not be known that the settlements are on the same quarter.
Johnson v. Towslehi, 13 Wall. 72; sect. 15, act of Sept. 4, 1841,
5 Stat. 455.
But all these cases suppose that the parties began their possession and made their settlements and built their houses on
lands not in the actual possession of another. It is not to be
presumed that Congress intended, in the remote regions where
these settlements are made, to invite forcible invasion of the
premises of another, in order to confer the gratuitous right of
preference of purchase on the invaders. In the parts of the
cotmtry where these pre-emptions are usually made, the protec-

Oct. 1877.]

ATHERTON

v.

FOWLER.

tion of the law to rights of person and property is generally but
imperfect under the best of circumstances. It cannot, therefore, be believed, without the strongest evidence, that Congress
has extended a standing invitation to the strong, the daring, and
the unscrupulous to dispossess by force the weak and the timid
from actual improvements on the public land, in order that the
intentional trespasser may secure by these means the preferred
right to buy the land of the government when it comes into
market.
A careful examination of the laws concerning the survey and
sale of our public lands will show that nothing of this kind is
sanctioned, and that so miny other ways are open to purchasers
of these lands that no such proceeding is necessary to enable
any one to secure his rights. In the earliest stages of our land
system no right or interest could be secured by the individual
in any public land until it had been surveyed into legal subdivisions. Nor after this had been done was it subject to sale,
until, by a proclamation of the President, it was brought into
market. This proclamation always fixed a time and place
when the lands within a given district were to be offered for
sale at public auction; and until all of them were sold which
could be sold in this manner, at prices above the minimum
fixed by law, no one could make a private entry of a particular
tract, or establish a claim to it. The scenes of violence, fraud,
and oppression, and the combinations which attended these sales,
and the wrongs perpetrated under them, led to the law of preemption. It often occurred that emigration, in advance of the
readiness of the public lands for these sales, had caused hundreds and thousands to settle on them; and, when they came to
be sold at public auction, their value, enhanced by the houses,
fences, and other improvements of the settler, placed them beyond his reach, and they fell into the hands of heartless speculators. To remedy this state of things the pre-emption system
was established. This, at first, was only applicable to lands
,which had been surveyed. But gradually this was changed,
until, in 1862, pre-emptions were allowed, under proper restrictions, on unsurveyed lands as well as those surveyed. Act of
June 2, 1862, 12 Stat. 418.
It may, therefore, be said that at tl.e time the transactions

ATHERTON V. FOWLER.

[Sup. Ct.

occurred of which we are speaking there were three modes of
securing title to public lands: 1. By purchase at the public
land sales ordered by the President. 2. By private entry;
that is, by going to the land-officer and paying at the rate of
$1.25 or i2.50 per acre for any land subject to private entry or
sale at those rates respectively. 3. By pre-emption.
Both the former modes contemplated the immediate payment
of the money, and the right of the party to the land was fixed
when this was done. He had then a vested interest, which became a perfect legal title when he received his patent. This
was usually after such delay as was necessary to ascertain if
there were any conflicting claims or rights to the land.
But the pre-emption of land did not require or admit of payment at the time the right of pre-emption was exercised. The
land might not have been surveyed, and then it could not be
identified or described so as to cause a patent to issue on it.
The law also intended to give the settler time to build a house,
break up the ground, and make a settlement first and payment
afterwards.
During this preliminary period lie had no vested right to the
land; but, as we have elsewhere decided, he did thus acquire
the right of preference in the purchase. That is to say, if lie
made the necessary settlement and improvement, and the necessary declaration in writing, no other person could buy the land
until the period elapsed which the law gave him to pay the
purchase-money. Prisbie v. Whit-ney, 9 Wall. 187; Hutchings
v. Low, 15 id. 77.
Among the things which the law required of a pre-emptor,
and the principal things required of him to secure his right,
were: 1. To make a settlement on the land in person. 2. To
inhabit and improve the same. 3. To erect a dwelling-house
thereon. Sect. 2259, Rev. Stat.
At the moment the land on which the hay in this case was
cut became liable to pre-emption, the whole of it was, by the
various persons claiming under Vallejo, 1, settled on by them
in person; 2, inhabited and improved by them; and, 3, it bad
dwellings erected on it by them.
Unless some reason is shown, not found in this record, these
were the persons entitled to make pre-emption, and no one else.

Oct. 1877.]

ATHERTON v. FOWLER.

But suppose they were not. Does the policy of the pre-emp.
tion law authorize a stranger to thrust these men out of their
houses, seize their improvements, and settle exactly where they
were settled, and by these acts acquire the initiatory right of
pre-emption? The generosity by which Congress gave the
settler the right of pre-emption was not intended to give him
the benefit of another man's labor, and authorize him to turn
that man and his family out of their home. It did not propose
to give its bounty to settlements obtained by violence at the
expense of others. The right to make a settlement was to be
exercised on unsettled land; to make improvements on unimproved land. To erect a dwelling-house did not mean to seize
some other man's dwelling. It bad reference to vacant land, to
unimproved land; and it would have shocked the moral sense of
the men who passed these laws, if they had supposed that they
bad extended an invitation to the pioneer population to acquire
inchoate rights to the public lands by trespass, by violence, by
robbery, by acts leading to homicides, and other crimes of less
moral turpitude.
We have not been able to find any decision of the courts
directly in point on this question. But in the case of the
United States v. Stanley (6 McLean, 409), Mr. Justice McLean
gave expression to the opinion, that, where a man was engaged
in erecting a house in order to make a pre-emption claim tc
lands purchased of the Miami Indians, another person, who by
force turned him out of the house, and having finished it took
up his residence there, could not by that proceeding acquire a
valid settlement, unless the other party voluntarily withdrew
all claim to the property. The case in regard to the trespass is
very like the one before us, and though the validity of the entry
of the trespasser was only remotely in question, the remark
of the learned justice, who was familiar with the laws regulating the sales of public lands, is entitled to respect.
So, also, in the case of Prisbiev. Whitney, before mentioned,
this court said, that while it was not necessary to decide it,
there were serious difficulties in regard to complainant's right
to make a valid pre-emption by a forcible intrusion upon
land cultivated, enclosed, and peaceably occupied by another
man.

ATHERTON v. FOWLER.

[Sup. ot.

In the present case, we are met with that question directly in
our way, and we are of opinion that it cannot be done.
It follows that the defendants could not have made any lawful entry on the lands where the bay was cut in this case;
that no law existed which gave them any right to make such
an entry; that they were mere naked trespassers, making an
unwarranted intrusion upon the enclosure of another, -an enclosure and occupation of years, on wiich time and labor and
money had been expended, - and that in such a wrongful attempt to seize the fruits of other men's labor there could be no
bona fide claim of right whatever. The instruction of the
court that this could be done, founded on an erroneous view of
the pre-emption law, was itself erroneous, and the judgment
founded on it must be reversed.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of California will, therefore, be reversed, and the case remanded with instruction to
order a new trial, and for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiTE, with whom concurred
TICE CLIFFORD, dissenting.

Mr. Jus-

I dissent from this judgment. It is not claimed that, when
the defendants entered, Page had title to the lands on which the
hay was cut. After the judgment of this court in United
States v. Vallejo (1 Black, 541), against the validity of the
"Soscol" grant, the lands became public lands of the United
States; and the occupancy of Page from that time, covering as
it did a tract of more than eight hundred acres, did not, in my
opinion, prevent a peaceable entry by the defendants, in good
faith, for the purposes of pre-emption. The case was fairly pat
to the jury upon that question.

