RAILWAY Co. v. MC(ARTHY.

[Sup. Or.

Myeth v. Stone, 3 Story, 284; Beard v. Turner, 13 Law Times,
N€. s. 747 ; Esteourt v. Esteourt, Law Rep. 10 Ch. 276; Coddington, Dig. 162; High, Injune. 405.
Aicquiescence of long standing is proved in this case, and inexcusable laches in seeking redress, which show beyond all
doubt that the complainant was not entitled to an account nor
to a decree for gains or profits ; but infringement having been
proven, showing that the injunction was properly ordered, be
is entitled to the costs in the Circuit Court; but the decree for
an account and for the supposed gains and profits being erroneous, the respondent, as appellant, is entitled to costs in this
court. Browne, Trade-marks, sect. 497.
Decree as to the injunction and costs in the Circuit Court
will be affirmed, but it will be reversed as to the decree for an
account and as to the allowance for gains and profits, with costs
in this court for the appellant; and the cause will be renanded
with direction to enter a decree in conformity with the opinion
of this court; and it is
So ordered.

RAILWAY COMPANY v. MCCARTHY.
1. The (ourt reaffirms its former decisions, that a court is not bound to give
2.

8.

4

5

instructions in the language in which they are asked. If those given sufficiently cover the case, and are correct, the judgment will not be disturbed..
Unless forbidden by its charter, a railroad company may contract for a shipment over connecting lines; and, having done so, is liable in all respects
upon them as upon its own lines. In such a case, the shipper is authorized to
assume that it has nutde the requisite arrangements to fulfil its obligations.
Where such a contract is not, on its face, necessarily beyond the scope of the
powerq of the corporation, it will, in the absence of proof to the contrary,
be presumed to be valid.
The doctrine of ultra rires, when invoked for or against a corporation, should
not be allowed to prevail, where it would defeat the ends of justice or work
a legal wrong.
Whre a party gives a reason for his conduct and decision touching any thing
in%olved in a controversy, lie is estopped, after litigation has begun, from
chauging his ground and putting his conduct upon another and different
conbideratiuon.

Eitmoit to the Circtit Court of the United States for the
E atern Dist ict of Misso1ri

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTHY.

This is an action by John McCarthy against the Ohio and
Mississippi Railway Company, to recover damages alleged to
have been sustained by him in consequence of negligence, care-,
lessness, and delay 6n the part of the defendant in the execution of the following contract of affreightment :"This agreement, made this twenty-third day of September, A.D
1873, between the Ohio and Mississippi Railway"Comipany, party of
the first part, and John McCarthy, party of the second part, witnesseth:

-

"That the party of the first part will forward to the party of the,
second part the fbllowing freight: to wit, sixteen cars, more or less,
from E. St. Louis to Philadelphia, at the rate of $130 per car,
which is a reduced rate, made expressly in consideration of this
agreement; in consideration of which the party of the second part
agrees to take care of said freight while on the trip, at his or their
own risk and expense; and that the party of the first part shall not
be responsible for any loss, damage, or injury which may happen to
said freight in loading, forwarding, or unloading, by suffocation or
other injury caused by overloading cars, by escapes from any cause
whatever, by any accident in operating the road, or delay caused
by storm, fire, failure of machinery or cars, or obstruction of track
from any cause, or by fire from any cause whatever, or by any other
cause except gross negligence; and that said party of the first part
and such connecting lines shall be deemed merely forwarders and
not common carriers, and only liable for such loss, damage, injury,
or destruction of freight as may be caused by gross negligence only,
and not otherwise.
"Witness our hands and seals in duplicate.
" 01IO & MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMPANY.

"By I.

COPE,

[SEAL.]'

Agent.

" JOHN MCCARTHY."

[SEAL.]

The facts in the case, as exhibited by the bill of exceptions,
are set forth in the opinion of the court. They are, therefore,
omitted here.
Upon the close of the testimony, the defendant requested. the
court to charge the jury1. That the plaintiff cannot recover damages for such loss,
damage, or injury as was sustained by his cattle by loading,
forwarding, or unloading; by suffocation or other injury caused
by overloading cars; by escapes from any cause whatever; h-y

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTHY.

[SUP. Or.

any accident in operating the road, or delay caused by failure
.f machinery or cars, or obstruction of track from any cause
except gross negligence ; or from any cause not occasioned by
gross negligence on the part of the Ohio and Mississippi Railroad Company, or the Marietta and Cincinnati Railroad Company, or the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company.
2. That under the contract the plaintiff can only recover for
such injuries or damages as the cattle sustained before they
passed into the possession of the Marietta and Cincinnati Railroad Company.
3. That the plaintiff cannot recover for such injuries as his
stock sustained after they passed into the possession of the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company at Parkersburg.
4. That it was not the duty of the defendant, or its connecting line, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, to start
out from Parkersburg on Sunday with the plaintiff's cattle, and
that the plaintiff cannot recover damages for failure to do so.
5. That the jury must find for the defendant, unless they
shall believe from the evidence that the plaintiff was the sole
owner of the cattle in controversy; and that if they shall
believe from the evidence that Hensley was a part-owner of
the cattle, or in the proceeds thereof, that they must find for
the defendant.
6. That the plaintiff cannot recover for such injuries as the
cattle sustained through the negligence of the defendant, or of
the other railroad companies operating the connecting lines,
provided that the negligence of the plaintiff, or his employ6s
or agents, contributed thereto.
7. That if the jury shall find from the evidence that the
cattle in controversy had been confined in the defendant's cars
for a longer period than twenty-eight consecutive hours upon
their arrival at Cincinnati, it was the duty of the defendant to
unload them, for rest, water, and feeding; and the defendant
cannot be made liable for that detention.
8. That if injuries were sustained in consequence of causes
specified and excepted in the contract of shipment made at
East St. Louis, then the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff
to show that such injuries were occasioned by the negligence
of the defendant.

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTaY.

The court gave the instructions embraced by the sixth,
Beventh, and eighth requests, but refused all the rest. To
which refusal the defendant excepted.
The court thereupon, sua sponte, charged as follows :"The contract between the plaintiff and the defendant contemplates that the owner, through his own agents, should have
the care and custody of the cattle throughout the entire route,that is, the loading and unloading of them at the necessary
intervals of rest, food, and water, - seeing that they were properly loaded and unloaded, and properly cared for.
"The defendant bound itself to transport safely, if it could
be so done through the exercise of ordinary caxe and diligence
on its part.
"Ordinarily, a common carrier, - that is, a railroad, - in
the absence. of a special contract of this kind, is held as an
insurer. In other words, nothing that could be prevented by
prudence or foresight is he excused from having done; and
he must transport the cattle to their destination, unless something beyond his power and control prevents it. But that is
not this contract. The parties to this suit presented a special
contract for the transportation of the cattle in question; and
it is for the jury to determine from the evidence whether the
cattle were injured, or the plaintiff sustained any damages,
in consequence of the gross neglect of the defendant or of
the connecting railroads. The defendant was bound to exercise ordinary care and diligence in operating the railroad,
so as to prevent injury to the cattle, arising from delays or
otherwise.
By the terms of the contract, the care of the cattle devolved
on plaintiff and his agents, and not on the defendants. For
any injury to the cattle caused by the manner of loading or
unloading the same, or by the nature of their habits, not caused
by the negligence of the defendant in operating the railroad
and cars, the plaintiff cannot recover. That is, if those cattle,
from their very nature, among themselves hurt themselves,
independent of what the railroad was doing, externally to the
cars, the plaintiff cannot recover for that.
"The defendant contends that at Parkersburg the plaintiff,
instead of sending forward the cattle, made a new and

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTHY.

[Sup. Ct,

independent contract with the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company; that for the transportation from Parkersburg to
Baltimore the plaintiff made an entirely new contract, and did
not go forward under the old contract; that he entered into a
new contract with other parties, and under that contract he
will have to look to the other parties for redress. But, on the
other hand, the plaintiff contends that the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company refused to permit the cattle to go forward
unless the alleged new contract was signed. If the alleged
contract was signed by the plaintiff's agent as the sole means
whereby the cattle could go forward, as the original contract
with defendant contemplated, then the signing of that new
paper at Parkersburg did not release or discharge the defendant from its obligations to send forward such cattle, as originally agreed, without unreasonable delay.
"The original contract was made upon the part of the
Ohio and Mississippi Railroad to transport to Philadelphia,
for a certain price per car, sixteen car-loads of cattle, the
privilege being given to the plaintiff to sell as he pleased at
Cincinnati or at Baltimore. Now, the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad took upon itself the sending of the cattle beyond its
terminus at Cincinnati, and took the freight for the whole
distance, and was bound to see that the cattle were carried
the whole distance. It made the agreement, and must see it
executed.
"Consequently, if when under that agreement those cars
reached Parkersburg, this intermediate road, which was the
agent, the Baltimore and Ohio Road, refused to take the cattle
forward despite the agreement with the Ohio and Mississippi
Railroad, unless the plaintiff would sign a paper whereby he
would exonerate it from any thing that might happen; if, then,
the plaintiff signed, or his agent signed, the paper under those
circumstances, as the only means of getting those cattle forward, that defence avails nothing.
"The transportation of cattle for long distances has caused,
for its protection, recent legislation by Congress. That legislation requires, under a penalty, that cattle transported over railroads shall, in the absence of unavoidable delays by storm or
accident, have a rest for at least five consecutive hours, for each

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. v. MCCARTHY.

run of twenty-eight hours. In other words, cattle shall not be
confined in cars for more than twenty-eight consecutive hours,
without giving them at least five consecutive hours for rest,
food, and water. An act very important, though it is not
involved directly in this case. You have heard a great deal
about the forty-four hours' run in this case. Every effort to
do that is a violation of the express law of the land, unless
occasioned by storm or accident.
"In the transit from East St. Louis to Baltimore, in obedience
to the law of the land, a delay which said law requires is not
an unreasonable delay for which the defendant is chargeable
It was bound to obey the law; and that amoun-t of delay is not
a reasonable delay, but a required delay. For all such delays
as occurred in that run, pursuant to law, it, so far as being
amenable to this plaintiff, is justified, for it was bound by law
to make such delays; and the plaintiff himself, having custody
of the cattle, is subject to a penalty if he transported the cattle
for a longer run than twenty-eight hours without giving them,
after that, five full hours' rest. So, in computing this question
of unreasonable delay, you will bear in mind they were bound
to give five consecutive hours for every twenty-eight hours
run.
"It is, therefore, for the jury, in the light of said requirements of law, for such delays, to determine whether there was,
in addition thereto, any unreasonable delays caused by negligence on the part of the defendant or the other roads. Take
into consideration the distance to be travelled, and the usual
and ordinary modes of transportation in such cases. The main
question, then, is, whether the cattle were injured from the
negligence of the defendant or any of the intermediate lines,
without the plaintiff or his agents contributing thereto. If
both parties contributed to the injury, neither party can recover
from the other."
To the said charge and statement of facts by the court made
to the jury, and to the several propositions therein announced
by the court as the law of the case, the defendant then and
there excepted.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff, Whereftpon the company brought the case here.

RAILWAY CO. v. MCCARTHY.

(Sup. t(m

Mr. D. V. Paul for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff in error was only a forwarder. In the absence
of any special contract, it was, therefore, only bound to carry
the cattle safely and securely over its own road, and, at its
terminus, deliver them to the succeeding company, with suitable directions for their carriage the rest of the way. Railroad
Company'v. MIanufacturing Company, 16 Wall. 318; Railroad
Company v. Pratt, 22 id. 123; Story, Bailments, sect. 448;
Reed v. United States -ExpressCo., 48 N. Y. 462; Inhabitants,
&c. v. Hall et al., 61 Me. 519; Hooper v. Wells, Fargo, & Co.,
27 Cal. 40.
The plaintiff in error cannot be held liable for the failure of
its connecting line, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
to forward the cattle from Parkersburg on'Sunday. Code of
West Virginia (1868), p. 694, c. 149, sects. 16, 17; Pate v.
Wright et al., 30 Ind. 476 ; Powhatan Steamboat Co. v. Appomattox Railroad Co., 24 How. 247.
Mr. John D. S. Dryden, contra.
AM. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error was the plaintiff in the court below.
He brought this action to recover damages from the railroad
company for alleged breaches of a contract entered into by the
parties on the 23d of September, 1873, for the transportation
by the company of sixteen car-loads of cattle from East St.
Louis to the city of Philadelphia. It was stipulated that
McCarthy should have the entire care and charge of the cattle
during the trip; that he should load and unload them; that
the company should be deemed forwarders and not common
carriers; and that it should be liable only for loss or injuries
caused by its gross negligence. The cattle were shipped, accordingly, at East St. Louis, under the care of Hensley, an eniploy6
of McCarthy. They were transported thence by the defendant's road to Cincinnati, thence by the Marietta and Cincinnati road to Parkersburg, in West Virginia, and thence by the
Baltimore and Ohio road to Baltimore. There the performance
of the contract terminated. The plaintiff gave evidence tending to prove the following state of facts: Between East St.
Louis and Cincinnati there was unnecessary delay and serious

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY Co. V. MCCARTHY.

injury to the cattle, arising from the gross negligence of the
company's servants. At Cincinnati, Hensley sold forty of the
cattle. This was done because, by reason of the injuries they
had received, they were unfit for further transportation. Between Cincinnati and Parkersburg there was further unnecessary delay, arising from the same cause which produced it
between East St. Louis and Cincinnati. The cattle arrived at
the latter place five hours behind the proper time. Hlensley
insisted that they should be shipped for Baltimore on the
morning of the next day, which was Sunday. The Baltimore
company received but refused to forward them until Monday
morning; and refused to ship them at all, until Hensley signed
a new and onerous contract touching their transportation upon
the Baltimore road. He at first refused; but, there being no
other means of transportation east, he was constrained to submit, and signed under protest.
The defendant company gave evidence tending to contradict the plaintiff's evidence on all these points. It was expressly proved that the Baltimore company "was not able
to send the cattle out of Parkersburg on Sunday, because they
had not the necessary cars therefor at the time, and that
they were sent at the first opportunity, which was on Monday
morning."
The evidence as set forth in the bill of exceptions is wholly
silent as to any other reason for not making the shipment on
Sunday.
The testimony being closed, the company's counsel submitted
sundry instructions, and prayed that they should be given to
the jury. A part was given and a part refused. Proper exceptions were taken as to the latter. Finally, the court instructed
the jury at large according to its own views.
There is no question presented in the record as to the sufficiency of the pleadings, or the admission or rejection of testimony. The exceptions and the assignments of error are confined
to the instructions refused and to those given by the court sua
sponte.
It has been repeatedly determined by this tribunal that no
court is bound to give instructions in the forms and language
in which they are asked. If those given sufficiently cover the

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTHY.

[Sup. CL

case, and are correct, the judgment will not be disturbed, whatever thse may have been which were refused.
We have examined the charge of the learned judge who
tried the case below, and are entirely satisfied with it. It was
full, clear, and unexceptionable. It submitted the case well
and fairly to the jury, and was quite as favorable to the company as the company had a right to demand.
We have found no error in it.
There are a few points, and only a few, to which we deem it
necessary particularly to advert: The suit was well brought by McCarthy. The only testimony as to the ownership of the cattle was given by him. He
said, "William Hensley, besides myself, was interested in the
cattle. le had a half-interest in the profits. I was the
owner." If Hensley bad been joined with McCarthy as a
plaintiff, there must, upon this testimony, have been an amendment, by striking his name from the record, or the action must
have failed. The facts called for no instruction, and the court
properly refused to give any.
The contract with the defendant was for the transportati
of the cattle the entire distance they were to go. It was sti
lated that the company would forward "sixteen cars, more
less, from East St. Louis to Philadelphia, at the rate of $130
car, which is a reduced rate, made expressly in consideratio
of this agreement." No other company was named, there was
no mention of compensation to any other party, and nothing
was said of a change to the cars of any other company on the
way. Such corporations, unless forbidden by their charters,
have the power to contract for shipments the entire distance over
any connecting lines. Railroad Company v. Pratt (22 Wall.
123) is conclusive in this court upon the subject. The principle is so well settled in this country, that a further citation of
authorities in support of it is unnecessary. Such is also the
rule of the English law. Both here and there the company is
liable in all respects upon the other lines as upon its own. In
such cases, the public has a right to assume that the contracting
company has made all the arrangements necessary to the fulfilment of the obligations it has assumed. The Great Western
Railway Co. v. Blake, 7 H. & N. 986; Weed v. Railroad Corn-

Oct. 1877.]

RAILWAY CO. V. MCCARTHY.

pany, 19 Wend. (N. Y.) 534; Knight v. Portland,Saco, . Portmouth Railroad Co., 56 Me. 234. When a contract is not of
its face necessarily beyond the scope of the power of the corporation by which it was made, it will, in the absence of proof th
the contrary, be presumed to be valid. Corporations are presumed to contract within their powers. The doctrine of ultra
vires, when invoked for or against a corporation, should not'be
llowed to prevail where it would defeat the ends of justice
or work a legal wrong. Union Water Co. v. Murphy's Flat
.Fluming Co. et al., 22 Cal. 620; llorris Railroad Co. v. Railroad Company, 29 N. J. Eq. 542; Whitney Arms Co. v. Barlow
et al., 63 N. Y. 62. There is no conflict in the evidence as to
the terms of the contract. It is all one way, and leaves na
room for doubt.
The contract contains some provisions in favor of the company, to which we have not adverted. They do not appear' to
have been challenged in the court below, and have not been
here. They are, therefore, not before us for consideration, and
we pass them by without remark.
It does not appear that Hensley had any authority to enter
into the contract forced upon him at Parkersburg. The original contract included the Baltimore road. The Parkersburg
contract could not, therefore, in any wise, affect his rights with
respect to the defendant. The court instructed the jury properly on the subject. It must be laid out of view as an element
in the case.
The question made by the company upon the Sunday law of
West-Virginia does not, in our view, arise in this case. We
have already shown that the defendant proved upon the trial
that it was impossible to forward the cattle on Sunday, for
want of cars. And it is fairly to be presumed that no other
reason was given for the refusal at that time. It does not appear that any thing was then said as to the illegality of such a
shipment on the Sabbath. This point was an after-thought,
suggested by the pressure and exigencies of the case.
Where a party gives a reason for his conduct and decision
touching any thing involved in a controversy, he cannot, after
litigation has begun, change his ground, and put his conduct
upon another and a different consideration. He is not per:

WHEELER V. NATIONAL

BANK.

[Slip. M

mitted thus to mend his hold. He is estopped from doing it
by a settled principle of law. Gold v. Banks, 8 Wend. (N. Y.)
562; Holbrook v. White, 24 id. 169; Everett v. Saltus, 15 id.
474; Wright v. Reed, 3 Durnf. & E. 554; -vffy v. O'Donovan,
46 N. Y. 223; Winter v. Coit, 7 id. 288. The judge below
committed no error in refusing to charge as requested upon this
aubject.
Judgment affirmed

WHEELER v.

NATIONAL

BANK.

Suit by a national bank upon a bill of exchange. Defence, usury. The bank,
in discounting the bill, reserved a greater amount than was allowed for inter,
est by the law of the State where it was situated. There was no proof of the
current rate of exchange. Held, that the bank was entitled to recover.

to the Superior Court of the city of New York.
This suit was brought by the Union National Bank of Pittsburg, Pa., against George M. Wheeler, as indorser of two
bills of exchange, one dated Jan. 20, 1871, for $10,000, and
one dated March 8, 1871, for $5,000, drawn by Slack, superintendent of the Brady's Bend Iron Company, on and accepted
by the treasurer of said company, pursuant to authority vested
in him for that purpose, and payable sixty days after their
respective dates at the American Exchange National Bank of
New York. The plaintiff discounted both bills for the benefit
of the company : the first on the twenty-fourth day of January,
1871, and the second on the day of its date, - the company
receiving the amount mentioned in the bills, less the sum of
0246.
The rate of interest in Pennsylvania was six per cent per
wnnum.
Said bills were duly protested for non-payment, and notice
given to the defendant. There was no proof of the rate of
exchange when they were discounted.
There was a judgment in favor of the bank, which was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the State of New York,
and the record remitted to the inferior court. Wheeler then
brought the case here by a writ of error.
ERROR

