Oct. 187"7.]

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

under the circumstances, to recall that election. Upon the
grounds, then, both of acquiescence and lapse of time, he
should be held to have forfeited all right to relief in a court
of equity.
For the reasons given, and without discussing other questions
of minor importance, the decree should be affirmed; and it is
So ordered.

GREGORY V. MORRIS.
1. The rule of the common law, that the lien of the vendor of personal property,
to secure the payment of purchase-money, is lost by the voluntary and
unconditional delivery of the property to the purchaser, does not prevent
the parties from contracting for a lien which, as between themselves, will
be good after delivery.
2. Where a party entitled to recover a certain amount in gold coin takes, with
the approbation of the court, a judgment which may be discharged in currency, the judgment should be for a sum equivalent in value to the specified amount of that coin as bullion.
3. Where the record does not show that the finding of the jury is contrary to the
instruction of the court, the presumption is that they followed it.
4. Where a witness testifies, in his direct examination, to a purchase made by
him, it is competent, on cross-examination, to ask him whether his contract
was in writing; and, if it was, to identify the paper.

to the Supreme Court of Wyoming Territory.
On Feb. 26, 1873, W. A. Morris and A. J. Gregory executed
a written contract at Austin, Texas, for the sale to the latter,
in accordance with a schedule of prices in gold, of a large
number of cattle. The contract provided that Morris was to
retain a lien on the cattle until the purchase-money, amounting
to nearly $8,000, should be paid; and it, for the purpose of
preserving said lien, authorized him to designate some person
as his agent to go along with and retain possession of the
cattle. In the event of the balance of the purchase-money
not being paid on or before Oct. 1 following, such agent was
to sell all or such portion of the cattle as would pay the
purchase-money then due, as well as the wages and other
expenses of the agent. After the contract was signed, Morris
executed to one Poteet a power of attorney, authorizing him
ERROR

GREGORY V. MORUS.

[Sup. Or,

to accompany the cattle, and retain the lien provided for. The
cattle arrived on the Laramie Plains some time in September.
Oct. 4, the purchase-money not having been paid by Gregory, Poteet took forcible possession of the cattle, and drove
them from the ranche where they were grazing to that of one
Alsop, some distance off. Gregory then brought replevin
against Morris and Poteet to recover possession of the cattle,
and damages for their wrongful detention.
The defendants, in their answer, denied all the allegations of
the petition, and specially that they wrongfully detained the
cattle. At the trial, the plaintiff having introduced evidence
tending to prove possession and ownership, the value of the
cattle, the taking and detention of them, and his demand for
their return, the defendants offered the written contract and
other documentary evidence, which offer was objected to by
the plaintiff, and the objection sustained. The defendants,
having by leave amended their answer, were permitted to
introduce the special matter which, under their original answer,
had been excluded by the court. The plaintiff thereupon
excepted. Upon the close of the testimony, the court gave certain instructions to the jury, which were excepted to at the
time by the plaintiff, and are set out in the assignments of
error.
The court, without objection, charged the jury, that, "there
being no question of title to the cattle put in issue by the
pleadings, but of possession only, if you find for the defendants,
you will find ' that they had the right of possession,' and will
assess such damages as they have sustained by reason of being
deprived of that possession, and the opportunity of selling the
cattle according to the contract."
The plaintiff prayed for certain instructions, which were
refused by the court. They are stated in the seventh assignment of error.
The jury found for the defendants, and assessed their damages
$7,451.90. A motion by the plaintiff for a new trial having
been overruled, and judgment rendered, which was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of the Territory, he sued out this writ, and
here assigns for error that said Supreme Court erred, 1. In sustaining the ruling of the District Court in instruct-

Oct. 1877.]

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

ing the jury as follows, to wit, "The jury must compute the
damages, and return their verdict on that computation in
dollars and cents; and, if the jury find the contract on the part
of the plaintiff was to pay a certain sum of money in gold,
they will compute the difference between gold and currency,
and render their verdict in dollars and cents in currency."
2. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in giving
to the jury the following instruction: "That the written contract between Morris and Gregory, in connection with the bill
of sale, the receipt, and the power of attorney to Poteet, necessarily explain and define the rights and interests of the parties
to this action in the property in question."
8. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in giving
to the jury the following instruction: "That by and under
those papers the defendants had a legal right to take possession
of the cattle in question on or after the first day of October
last, and retain such possession, for the purpose of selling them,
according to the terms of said contract."
4. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in giving
to the jury the following instruction: "That if the jury find
that Poteet, in pursuance of his power of attorney, took possession of 'said cattle, and removed them to Alsop's ranche for the
purpose of selling them, according to the terms of said contract, then they must find the right of possession in the defendants at the commencement of this action, and must assess such
damages for the defendants as are just and proper."
5. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in giving
to the jury the following instruction : "That the pleadings in
this case put in issue only the right of possession at the time of
the service of the writ of replevin, and you are instructed that
the right of the plaintiff in these cattle at that time was only a
right of redemption as a mortgagor after condition broken;
and that he had no right to the possession of the cattle, and no
right to take them, by replevin or otherwise, from these defendants, or either of them, until he had paid or tendered the
amount due on the contract."
6. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in giving
to the jury the following instruction: "If the jury find that
by the terms of the written contract, which must govern in this

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

case, that the defendants, on the first day of October, 1873,
had a right to sell these cattle, the right to sell necessarily carties with it the right of possession."
7. In sustaining the ruling of the said District Court in
refusing to give to the jury the following instructions: "If the
vendor, Morris, made an agreement of sale and delivery, and, in
conformity therewith, did sell and deliver cattle to Gregory, the
vendee, and by the terms of the agreement made between
the parties the vendor was to have and maintain a lien upon
the chattels, or cattle, for the balance of the purchase price, by
keeping the said cattle in the possession of the vendor during
the journey from Texas to Wyoming, until the first day of
October, 1873, the vendee, Gregory, after receiving the cattle
from Morris, must have first redelivered the said cattle to
Morris, and placed them in his bands as a pledge before the
agreed lien of Morris for balance of purchase price could vest;
and, second, if such redelivery was made by Gregory, the vendee, to Morris, the vendor, and thereafter the vendor, Morris,
by himself or his agents, by his own fault, carelessness, or
negligence, permitted the possession of the said cattle to again
pass to Gregory, the vendee, Morris, the vendor, thereby lost
his lien, and all right of possession and right of property, and
possession must thereafter rest and remain in Gregory."
8. In sustaining the ruling of the District Court in overruling the motion of the plaintiff to set aside the verdict of the
jury, for the reason that it was not in due form.
9. In sustaining the action of said District Court in rendering judgment upon the verdict, the said verdict not being in
the form required by law, nor in such form that any lawful
judgment could be rendered thereon.
10. In sustaining the ruling of said District Court in overruling the plaintiff's motion to set aside the verdict of the jury
and to grant a new trial.
11. In sustaining the action and ruling of the District Court
in admitting in evidence, over the objection of the plaintiff,
written instruments, the execution of the same not having been
proved.
Mr. W. T. Corlett for the plaintiff in error.

Mr. JT IV Wilson, contra.

Oct. 1877.]

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

IR. CHIr.F JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and tenth
assignments of error may be considered together. They relate
entirely to the construction and effect given the contract
between Gregory and Morris, as shown by the several instruments in writing put in evidence. There was no real controversy as to the facts; but Gregory claimed that he was the purchaser of the cattle in dispute from Morris, and that the lien
provided for in favor of Morris was one which a delivery of the
property under the contract extinguished. There was no pretence of payment on his part further than that shown by the
contract itself, or of title, except such as was acquired through
this purchase.
The lien at common law of the vendor of personal property
to secure the payment of purchase-money is lost by the voluntary and unconditional delivery of the property to the purchaser; but this does not prevent the parties from contracting
for a lien which, as between themselves, will be good after
delivery. So, ordinarily, when the possession of a pledge is
relinquished, the rights of the pledgee are gone. In thi case,
however, Morris was not willing to rely upon the lien which
the law gave him as vendor, or upon a mere pledge of the
property, but required a special contract on the part of Gregory, securing his rights. This contract created a charge upon
the property, not in the nature of a pledge, but of a mortgage.
The lien, as between the parties, was not made to depend upon
possession, but upon a contract, which defined the rights both of
Morris and Gregory, and the power of Morris for the enforcement of his security. When Poteet assumed the exclusive
possession of the property, no rights of third persons had intervened, and there was nothing to prevent the execution of the
agreement according to its terms. This clearly gave Morris
the right, after Oct. 1, if the purchase-money was not paid, to
take the cattle into his own possession, detain them until the
balance due him was discharged, and sell them if necessary to
obtain his money. We think the court defined correctly the
rights of the parties, and that there was no error in this particular, either in the charge or the refusal to charge.

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct

The first assignment of error brings up for consideration the
rule of damages laid down by the court. By the laws of Wyoming Territory, property taken in replevin is delivered to the
plaintiff upon his entering into an undertaking to the defendant, with one or more sufficient sureties in at least double the
value of the property taken, to the effect that the plaintiff
shall duly prosecute his action, and pay all costs and damages
which may be awarded against him. Civil Code, 1869, sect.
190. If the property is so delivered, and the jury find for the
defendant upon the issues joined, they are also required to
find "whether the defendant has the right of property or the
right of possession only;

.

. . and if they find either in his

favor, they shall assess such damages as they think right and
proper for the defendant; for which, vith costs of suit, the
court shall render judgment for the defendant." Sect. 195.
The delivery of the property to the plaintiff passes the title to
him as against the defendant, who must look for his protection
to a recovery in damages, if the writ is wrongfully sued out.
In this case, the finding for the defendant is, under the pleadings, in effect, that Morris was the mortgagee of the property
in possession after condition broken, and that Gregory had by
the replevin wrongfully deprived him of his possession. That
rendered Gregory liable for such damages, in consequence of
his wrongful act, as were "right and proper" under the circumstances. The obligation secured by the mortgage or lien
under which Morris held was for the payment of gold coin, or,
as was said in Bronson v. Bodes (7 Wall. 229), "an agreement
to deliver a certain weight of standard gold, to be ascertained
by a count of coins, each of which is certified to contain a definite proportion of that weight," and is not distinguishable
"from a contract to deliver an equal weight of bullion of equal
fineness." In that case, it was held that judgment might be
rendered upon such a contract payable in coined dollars; but
here the suit is not upon the contract for the recovery of the
amount agreed to be paid, but, in effect, for damages on account
of the wrongful detention of property mortgaged to secure the
debt. Gregory himself asked the court to charge that "the
jury must compute damages and return their verdict in dollars
and cents." This was undoubtedly correct, and it was done;

Ot. 1877.]

GREGORY V. MoRRiS.

but he further asked the court to say that "no agreement or
contract to pay a certain number of dollars in gold can be enforced. The national currency is by law a legal tender at its
face value for all debts and demands, public or private, except
duties on imports and interest on the public debt." This was
in conflict with Bronson v. Rodes, and therefore properly
refused.
But the court did say to the jury, that, if they found the contract on the part of the plaintiff was to pay a certain sum of
money in gold, they should compute the difference between
gold and currency, and render their verdict in dollars and cents
in currency; and in this we see no error. While we have decided that a judgment upon a contract payable in gold may be
for payment in coined dollars, we have never held that in all
cases it must be so. While gold coin is in one sense money, it
is in another an article of merchandise. Gregory was required
to discharge his debt in gold before he could rightfully take
the property into his possession under the replevin. If the
payment had been so made, Morris would have had his coin at
that time to use as money or merchandise, according to his discretion. But it was not made; and Gregory, by his wrongful
act in taking the property, subjected himself to damages. If
the contract had been in terms for the delivery of so much
gold bullion, there is no doubt but the court might have directed the jury to find the value of the bullion in currency, and
bring in a verdict accordingly. But we think, as was thought
in Bronson v. Rodes, such a case is not really distinguishable
from this. The question is not whether Gregory had the
right to pay in gold dollars after his debt had become due, but
whether, having wrongfully got the property into his possession without payment at all, the damages he is required to pay
on account of this wrongful act must, as a matter of law, be
estimated in gold, or whether they may be in currency. We
think it clear, that, under such circumstances, it was within the
power of the court, so far as Gregory was concerned, to treat
the contract as one for the delivery of so much gold bullion;
and, if Morris was willing to accept a judgment which might
be discharged in currency, to have his damages estimated according to the currency value of bullion. Certainly, if Morris
VOL. v1.

40

GREGORY V. MORRIS.

[Sup. Ct

had in good faith sold the cattle under his power of sale for
currency, and received payment in that kind of money, he
would have been entitled to convert the currency into gold
before crediting it upon his debt. So here, if, with the approbation of the court, be takes a judgment that may be discharged
in currency, the judgment should be for an amount which
would be the equivalent in currency of the specified amount of
coin as bullion. This was the rule adopted by the court, and
we think it correct.
The eighth and ninth assignments of error relate to the formi
of the verdict. As has already been seen, where the property
has been delivered to the plaintiff, the jury, if they find for the
defendant, must also find whether the defendant has "the
right of property or the right of possession only." In this
case the verdict, though for the defendant, is silent upon that
point; but the record shows that by consent the court charged
the jury if they found for the defendants they should find
"that they had the right of possession only." This cures any
defect there may have been in the verdict in this particular.
'rhe whole record must be taken together; and, as the jury did
not find to the contrary of the instruction, the presumption is
that they followed it.
All the other assignments relate to the admissibility of evidence, and as to them it is sufficient to say we are satisfied with
the rulings that were made. Certainly, the instruments in
writing which were objected to were admissible. They tended
directly to prove the defence set up in the amended answer,
and no objection appears to have been made at the trial as to
the proof of their execution. The cross-examination of Gregory, which was objected to, was clearly legitimate, under the
most stringent rules governing that subject. He had testified
that he had purchased the cattle from Morris. It was clearly
proper, therefore, on cross-examination, to ask him if his contract of purchase was in writing, and, if so, to identify the
paper.
Judgment affirmed

