Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

appellants has filed a brief. None has been filed upon the other
side.
There are two objections to these bills :1. The gravamen of what is desired as to Reynolds is an injunction to prevent his proceeding at law in the State court.
Without this, all else is of no account. Any other remedy
would be unavailing. Such an injunction, except under the
Bankrupt Act, no court of the United States can grant. With
this exception, it is expressly forbidden by law. Act of March
2, 1793, sect. 5 (1 Stat. 834); Rev. Stat., sect. 720; Diggs v.
Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179; Peck et al. v. 7enness et al., 7 How.
612; Watson v. Jones, 13 Wall. 679.
2. It is well settled that in a foreclosure proceeding the complainant cannot make a person who claims adversely to both
the mortgagor and mortgagee a party, and litigate and settle
his rights in that case. Barbour, Parties in Equity, 493, and
the cases there cited.
This case was one of fatal misjoinder and multifariousness,
and the proper course for Reynolds was to demur. Story,
Eq. P1., sect. 284 b.
The complainants not having amended by striking out so
much of the bills as related to him and his claim, it was propex
for the court to sustain the demurrers and dismiss the bills.
-Decreeaffirmed.

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.
1. Where a city council is vested with power to cause sidewalks in the city to be
constructed, it may authorize the mayor, and the chairman of the committee
on streets and alleys, to make, in its behalf, and pursuant to its directions,
a contract for doing the work.
2. A provision in the charter, that the city council shall not borrow for general
purposes more than $50,000, does not limit the debt of the city, nor prohibit
the council from entering into a contract involving an expenditure exceeding that amount, for special improvements, such as the grading and paving
of streets and the construction of sidewalks, which are authorized by the
charter.
& Such a contract is not rendered wholly inoperative because it provides that
the work done under it shall be paid for in bonds of the corporation, the

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

[Sup. Or.

issue whereof was not authorized by law. The contract, sa far as it is in
other respects lawful, remains in force; and for the breach thereof the corporation is liable.
4. The contract in question in this case construed, and the proviso therein, in
reference to the consent of the owners of the property fronting or abutting
on the pavements to be laid, held to have reference to the materials to br
used in constructing them, and not to the execution of the work itself.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
The judgment in the court below having been given upon a
demurrer to the plaintiffs' petition, there is no controversy
about the facts.
The city of Galveston, proposing to improve some of its sidewalks, entered into a contract with Dexter G. Hitchcock and
James W. Byrnes, the plaintiffs, by which they agreed to furnish the materials and in whole or in part to do the work
necessary for the improvement. The work consisted of filling,
grading, curbing, and paving. By ordinance, it had been determined that the sidewalks should be paved with one or the
other of the following-described materials: " Asphalt, hard
bricks laid in a bed of Portland cement and properly grouted,
concrete made of Portland cement mixed with other proper
materials, or with tile or stone laid in a bed of Portland cement."
The ordinance contains a provision that the "owners of lots or
parts of lots who represent in each block a majority of the feet
fronting or abutting upon any sidewalk of the same which is to
be paved" shall have the " right ... to select and designate
which of the said materials they prefer and desire to be used in
the construction of the pavement to be laid down on the said
designated sidewalk," reserving, however, to the chairman of
the committee on streets and alleys the right to determine the
material to be used in case the lot-owners failed to make a.
selection. Of course, grading, filling, and curbing were a necessary preparation to any of these different modes of paving;
and the city ordinances made provision for these several kinds
of preparatory work, as well as for the paving. It was in pursuance of these ordinances that the contract was made. By it, the
city engaged, in the first instance, to pay to the plaintiffs the sum
of $1.75, in bonds of the city, styled "Galveston city bonds for
sidewalk improvements," to be taken at par, for every square

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

yard of pavement laid down by them upon certain designated
sidewalks, the pavement to be composed of asphalt in bulk,
rolled solid to the thickness of three inches; provided, however,
the plaintiffs "obtain the written consent of the owners of the
property fronting or abutting upon the said sidewalks to the
laying down of the said pavement, which written consent or
selection of said pavement shall be filed in the mayor's office
with the city clerk."
Following this conditional arrangement for an asphalt pavement, where such a pavement might be selected, the parties
by the contract entered into other engagements. The city
undertook to pay to the plaintiffs in the said bonds, to be
taken at par, the sum of $1.25 for every cubic yard of filling
necessary to be done "1upon any and all of the said sidewalks
preparatory to the laying of any pavement thereon," the above
price to include not only the filling, but the grading, tamping,
and rolling.
The contract next contained an engagement of the city to
pay to the plaintiffs in the said bonds, to be taken at par, fortyfive cents for each square foot of wooden curbing (to be composed or made of three-inch cypress) "that might be needed or
used in filling up and grading the said sidewalks preparatory to
putting down the said pavement, or any other."
The contract also bound the city to pay the plaintiffs for
wooden curbing needed or used for putting down the pavements
that were to be only six feet in width. In consideration of all
these promises of the city, the plaintiffs bound themselves to
lay down and fabricate the said pavement in the manner and
style above set forth and stipulated; and they also bound themselves to fill, grade, tamp, roll, and curb the said sidewalks as
above set forth and stipulated, and to receive in payment for
all the said work the respective prices above stated in Galveston city bonds for sidewalk improvement at par. They further
bound themselves to commence the work within twenty days,
and to finish it without unnecessary delay.
Accordingly, they proceeded to fulfil their engagements. They
made contracts for labor and materials, performed a large amount
of work, completed the curbing and filling of some sidewalks,
and were going on in earnest to finish the entire work, when,

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.

[Slip. Ct.

at the expiration of forty-six days, they were compelled by
force and by authority of the city to abandon their work without any fault of their own. On the 20th of April, 1874, the
city council declared the contract null and void, and directed
the mayor to notify the contractors to that effect, which he did
two days thereafter. Hence the present suit to recover damages
for the breach of the contract.
The demurrer to the petition was sustained, and judgment
rendered for the defendants. The plaintiffs sued out this writ
of error.
J11r. F. Charles Hume and iJV. S. S. Henkle for the plaintiffs
inerror.
Where a municipal corporation has power to do certain work,
it may order its agents, for it and in its name, to enter into the
requisite contract, which will be binding upon it. Burrill v.
The City of Boston, 2 Cliff. 590; -Ford v. Williams, 21 How.
287; San Antonio v. Lewis, 9 Tex. 69; Bank of Columbia v. Patterson, 7 Cranch, 299; Dunn v. Rector of St. Andrew's Church,
14 Johns. (N. Y.) 118; Glidden v. Unity, 33 N. H. 577 ; 2 Kent,
Com. 290; Angell & Ames, Corp., sect. 212; Fitton v. Hamilton
City, 6 Nev. 196; Smiley v. Mayor, &c., 6 Heisk. (Tenn.) 604;
Story, Contr., sect. 312 ; iloyt v. Thompson's Executor, 19 N. Y.
207; Abby v. Billups, 35 Miss. 618; Alton v. M11ulledy, 21 111.
76; Dillon, Mun. Corp., sects. 132, 374; Story, Agency. sect.
54; Clark v. Mayor, &c. of Washington, 12 Wheat. 40; Fanning v. Gregorie et al., 16 How. 524; Sharp v. Mayor, &e. of
New York, 25 How. (N. Y.) Pr. 388; Dickerson v. Peters,
71 Pa. St. 53; Northern Central Railway Co. v. Mayor, &c.
of Baltimore, 21 .2d. 93.
The absence of authority to issue the bonds does not impair
the validity and obligation of the contract. They are merely
evidences of indebtedness ; and, if they are absolutely void, that
indebtedness remains, and the city is liable upon the contract,
and for damages occasioned by the breach of it. State Bank v.
Leavitt, 14 N. Y. 162; Leavitt v. Curtis et al., 15 id. 9; Oneida
Bank v. Ontario Bank, 21 id. 490; Argenti v. City of San
P.rar'.seo, 16 Cal. 255; Maher v. Chicago, 38 111. 266; Chzcago
v. IThe People, 48 id. 416.
By the contract, the city intended to incur a direct liability

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

to the contractor, and for payments made Oreimburse itself by
assessments upon, and in the event of their non-payment by
sales of, the lots bordering upon the streets improved. Where,
as in this case, there is no express limitation upon the power
of the city, such a contract is valid. Allen v. City of Janesville,
85 Wis. 403; Porltzv. Cincinnati,2 Handy (Ohio), 261; Sleeper
v. Bullen, 6 Kan. 300; Maher v. Chicago, 38 Ill. 266; Chicago
v. The People, 48 id. 416; Louisville v. Hyatt, 5 B. Mon. (Ky.)
199; Kfearney v. City of Covington, 1 Metc. (Ky.) 339; Swift
v. Williamsburgh, 24 Barb. (N. Y.) 427.
The city having so contracted, and failed or refused to
make such assessments and collections with due diligence and
pay the contractor, is liable to suit. Baldwin v. Oswego, I Abb.
(N. Y.) App. Dec. 62; Cummings v. Brooklyn,11 Paige (N. Y.),
596; Allen v. City of Janesville, Forltz v. Cincinnati,Sleeper v.
Bullen, Louisville v. Hyatt, KYearney v. Covington, Swift v. WilZiamsburgh, and Argenti v. City of San Francisco, supra.
The provision that the council shall not borrow for general
purposes more than $50,000 has no bearing whatever upon this
contract for special improvements. Cummings v. Brooklyn,
Baldwin v. Oswego, Allen v. City of Janesville, and Argenti v.
City of San Francisco, supra.
3r. WV. P. Ballinger and ffr. George Flournoy, contra.
The city of Galveston bad no express authority to make the
contract in question, or to issue bonds in payment of the work
done thereunder, and none can be implied from their general
powers. Police Jury v. Britton, 15 Wall. 566; The Mayor v.
Bay, 19 id. 468; Williams v. Davidson, 43 Tex. 1; Dillon, Mun.
Corp., sect. 393. The contract to pay in such bonds for imUnion
provements of that description was therefore void.
Pac-ific Railroad v. Lincoln County, 3 Dill. 300; State v.
Swift, 11 Nev. 167; Thomas v. Port Huron, 27 Mich. 320;
Lucas et al. v. San Francisco, 7 Cal. 463; Boeck v. Newark,
:33 N. J. L. 129; New Albany v. Sweeney, 13 Ind. 245; Johnson v. Indianapolis, 16 id. 227; McCullough v. Brooklyn, 23
Wend. (N. Y.) 458; Lake v. Trustees of Williamsburgh. 4 Den.
(N. Y.) 520 ; Nunt v. Utica, 18 N. Y. 442 ; Swift v. Williamsburgh, 24 Barb. (N. Y.) 427; Baldwin v. Oswego, 1 Abb.
(N. Y.) App. Dec. 62; Hale v. KYenosha, 29 Wis. 599; Bridqe-

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

[Sup. Ut

port v. New York & Nbrew Haven Railroad Co., 36 Conn. 255;
Alexander et al. v. The Mayor, &c. of Baltimore, 5 Gill (Md.),
383; Lansing v. Lansing, 25 Mich. 207; Ruppert et al. v. The
Mayor, &c. of Baltimore, 23 Md. 184; Annapolis v. Harwood,
32 id. 471; Fairfield v. Ratcliff, 20 Iowa, 396; Head v. Providence Insurance Co., 2 Cranch, 127; Zottman v. San Francisco,
20 Cal. 96; Nicholson Paving Co. v. Painter,35 id. 699; Whitehall v. Pulaski County, 2 Dill. 249; Hall & Argalls v. County
of Marshall,12 Iowa, 142; Regents' University v. Hart,7 Minn.
61; King v. Brooklyn, 42 Barb. (N. Y.) 627; Richardson v.
Brooklyn, 34 id. 569; Dillon, Mun. Corp., sects. 55, 610, 653,
654.
The contract, if valid, will impose upon the city a liability
exceeding .950,000, and is therefore in violation of that provision
in the charter of the city which prohibits the council from borrowing for general purposes more than that sum. Rogers v.
Burlington, 3 Wall. 654; Middleton v. Alleghany County, 37
Pa. St. 237 ; McPhersonv. Foster,43 Iowa, 48; State v. Strader,
25 Ohio St. 527.
The contract sued on is not valid, because, 1. The city
council could not delegate the power to the mayor and the
chairman of the committee on streets and alleys to make it;
2. The said mayor, &c., still further delegated the power to
determine the paving of said sidewalks to the owners of the
lots thereon. Dillon, Mun. Corp., sects. 60, 567, 618, 649,
and notes; Lyon v. Jerome, 26 Wend. (N. Y.) T,4; Danforth
v. Paterson,34 N. J. L. 163 ; State v. City of New York, 3 Duer
(N. Y.), 131; Goszler v. Georgetown, 6 Wheat. 593; Hyde
v. Joyes, 4 Bush (Ky.), 468; Mayor of Baltimore v. Porter,
18 Md. 284; Oakland v. Carpentier,13 Cal. 540; Ruggles v.
Collier, 43 Mo. 353; East St. Louis v. Wehrung, 50 Ill. 28;
Day v. Green, 4 Cush. (Mass.) 433; Coffin v. Nantucket, 5 id.
269; Ruggles v. Nantucket, 11 id. 433; Ex parte Winsor,
3 Story, 411; Scofield v. Lansing, 17 Mich. 437; Schenley v.
Alleghany, 36 Pa. St. 62.
It results from the want of authority to bind the city by the
contract sued on that there is no liability for the filling and
curbing which it is alleged has been performed by the plaintiffs.
Cooley, Const. Lim. 196; Bonesteel v. "Mayor qf New York,

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

22 N. Y. 162; McDonald v. Mayor of New York, 4 Thomp. &
C. (N. Y.) 177, and cases cited; Murphy v. Louisville, 9 Bush
(Ky.), 189; Crayeraft v. Selvage, 10 id. 696; Beilly v. Philadelphia, 60 Pa. St. 467.
The contract was subject to the condition that the lot owners
fronting or abutting upon the sidewalks should select the kind
of pavement, and that their written consent to laying it
down should be obtained by the plaintiffs. The pleadings do
not aver the performance of this condition, and without it the
contract, even if authorized by the charter, was not binding
upon the city.
MR. JusTicn
STRONG, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The demurrer to the plaintiffs' petition raises several questions, all relating to the validity or construction of the agreement between the parties.
These questions were not all
considered by the Circuit Court, but, as-we are of opinion that
court erred in giving judgment for the defendant, we cannot
overlook any consideration that could justify such a judgment.
It is contended, on behalf of the defendants, that the city of
Galveston had no power given to it by law to make the contract which was made, or bind itself to pay with the bonds
described, for sidewalk improvements. The contract was made
on behalf of the city by the mayor and the chairman of the
committee on streets and alleys, who had been authorized and
directed by ordinance "to enter into and make contract or
contracts with proper and responsible parties to fill up, grade,
curb, and pave the said sidewalks " (those designated in the
ordinance and mentioned in the contract) ; and, as the petition
of the plaintiffs averred, it was ratified and approved by the city
council as the act and deed of the defendant. The authority
of the council is found in the charter of the city. The first
section of tit. 9, art. 1, of the charter declares that the city council shall be invested with full power and authority to grade,
shell, repair, pave, or otherwise improve any avenue, street, or
alley, or any portion thereof, within the limits of said city,
whenever by a vote of two-thirds of the aldermen present they
may deem such improvement to be for the public interest.

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.

[Sup. 0t,

And sect. 8, art. 3, tit. 4, confers upon the city council power
"to establish, erect, construct, regulate, and keep in repair
bridges, culverts and sewers, sidewalks and crossways, and to
regulate the construction and use of the same;" and the section adds, that "the cost of the construction of sidewalks shall
be defrayed by the owners of the lot, or part of lot or block
fronting on the sidewalk, and the cost of any sidewalk constructed by the city shall be collected, if necessary, by the sale
of the lot, or part of lot or block on which it fronts, together
with the cost of collection, in such a manner as the city council may, by ordinance, provide; and a sale of any lot, or part
of lot or block, to enforce collection of cost of sidewalks, shall
convey a good title to the purchaser, and the balance of the
proceeds of sale, after paying the amount due the city, and
cost of sale, shall be paid by the city to the owner."
The city is thus authorized itself to construct sidewalks, and,
though the cost of construction is to be defrayed by the abutting lot-owners, the city is to collect from them the cost, and,
in case of the sale of any lot made to enforce the collection,
the city is to pay to the owner the surplus of any proceeds of
sale remaining after payment of the amount due to it.

It is

not to be denied that this section confers upon the city council
plenary authority to construct the sidewalks, and to do whatever is necessary for the construction, not prohibi.d by some
other provision of law. The resort to the lot-owners is to be
after the work has been done, after the expense has been
incurred, and it is to be for reimbursement to the city.
If the city council had lawful authority to construct the
sidewalks, involved in it was the right to direct the mayor,
and the chairman of the committee on streets and alleys, to
make a contract on behalf of the city for doing the work. We
spend no time in vindicating this proposition. It is true, the
council could not delegate ill the power conferred upon it by
the legislature, but, like every other corporation, it could do its
ministerial work by agents. Nothing more was done in this
case. The council directed the pavements, ordering them to be
constructed of one or the other of several materials, but giving
to the owners of abutting lots the privilege of selecting which,
and reserving to the chairman of their committee authority to

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.

select, in case the lot-owners failed.- The council also directed
how the preparatory work should be done. There was, therefore, no unlawful delegation of power. But, if there had been,
the contract was ratified by the council after it was made. A
sufficient ratification, if any was necessary, is averred in the
petition, and again and especially in the amended petition.
Another objection to the validity of the contract, urged by
the city, is founded upon a provision of the charter, that the
council shall not borrow for general purposes, more than
$50,000; and it is said the contract, if valid, creates a liability of the city exceeding that sum. This, however, does
not appear in the contract itself, and this, perhaps, is a sufficient answer to the objection. But the limitation is upon the
power to borrow money, and to borrow it for general purposes.
It implies that there may be lawful purposes, which are not
general in the sense in which that word is used in the charter.
An examination of the whole instrument, and of the numerous
and large powers conferred upon the council, as well as duties
imposed, makes it evident that the provision could not have
been intended to prohibit incurring an indebtedness exceeding
the sum named. It is in no sense a limitation of the debt of
the city. If it is, the grant of power the charter contains was
an idle thing, and the duties imposed could not be performed.
The council, as we have seen, is empowered to grade and pave
the streets and to construct sidewalks. There is no express
limitation of these powers. Their exercise necessarily involves
large expenditure. Such expenditure is, therefore, authorized.
It is a plain incident of the power, and it is a special expenditure. It is for a new work, unlike the work of keeping in
repair. Conceding that it is a purpose of the act incorporating
the city, it cannot be regarded as a general purpose; for, if it
is, all purposes of the charter are general. Grading a street or
making a sidewalk, where none had existed before, is a special
improvement, not like repairs of constant recurrence. By
another article of defendant's charter, the city council was
authorized to provide by brdinance special fands for special
purposes, and to make the same disbursable only for the. purpose for which the fund was created. For these reasons, we
are of opinion that the limitation upon the power of the corm

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.

[Sup. Ot.

cil to borrow for general purposes did not make the agreement
with the plaintiffs invalid.
We come now to objections which the Circuit Court susThe learned judge held the contract inoperative,
tained.
because by it the city agreed to pay for the work to be done,
and the contractors agreed to receive in payment, at par, bonds
of the city, denominated "Galveston city bonds for sidewalk
These bonds were, by the ordinance that
improvement."
authorized their issue, made payable to bearer fifteen years
after date; and the money realized from assessment on property
fronting on sidewalks improved by means of their disposition
was declared to be a special fund, and appropriated solely as a
sinking fund for their redemption. The issue of such bonds
was held by the court to be transgressive of the power of the
city, and the ruling was thought to be supported by the decision of this court in the cases of Police Jury v. Britton,15 Wall.
566, and Tie Mayor v. Bay, 19 id. 468.
In the view which we shall take of the present case, it is,
perhaps, not necessary to inquire whether those cases justify
the court's conclusion; for, if it were conceded that the city had
no lawful authority to issue the bonds, described in the ordinance and mentioned in the contract, it does not follow that
the contract was wholly illegal and void, or that the plaintiffs
have no rights under it. They are not suing upon the bonds,
and it is not necessary to their success that they should assert
the validity of those instruments. It is enough for them that
the city council have power to enter into a contract for the
improvement of the sidewalks; that such a contract was made
with them; that under it they have proceeded to furnish materials and do work, as well as to assume liabilities; that the
city has received and now enjoys the benefit of what they have
done and furnished; that for these things the city promised to
pay; and that after having received the benefit of the contract
the city has broken it. It matters not that the promise was to
pay in a manner not authorized by law. If payments cannot
be made in bonds because their issue is ultra vires, it would be
sanctioning rank injustice to hold that payment need not be
made at all. Such is not the law. The contract between the
parties is in force, so far as it is lawful

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

There may be a difference between the case of an engage.
ment made by a corporation to do an act expressly prohibited,
by its charter, or some other law, and a case of where legislative power to do the act has not been granted. Such a distinction is asserted in some decisions. But the present is not a
case in which the issue of the bonds was prohibited by any
statute. At most, the issue was unauthorized. At most, there
was a defect of power. The promise to give bonds to the
plaintiffs in payment of what they undertook to do was, therefore, at farthest, only ultra vires; and, in such a case, though
specific performance of an engagement to do a thing transgressive of its corporate power may not be enforced, the corporation can be held liable on its contract. Having received benefits at the expense of the other contracting party, it cannot
object that it was not empowered to perform what it promised
in return, in the mode in which it promised to perform. This
was directly ruled in The State Board of Agriculture v. The
Citizens' Street-Railway Co., 47 Ind. 407. There it was held,
that "although there may be a defect of power in a corpora
tion to make a contract, yet if a contract made by it is not in,
violation of its charter, or of any statute prohibiting it, and
the corporation has by its promise induced a party relying on
the promise and in execution of the contract to expend money
and perform his part thereof, the corporation is liable on the
contract." See also, substantially to the same effect, Allegheny
City v. HTClurkin, 14 Pa. St. 81; and, more or less in point,
Maher v. fhicago, 38 Ill. 266; Oneida Bank v. Ontario Bank,
21 N. Y. 490; Argenti v. City of San F7ranciseo, 16 Cal. 256;
Silver Lake Bank v. North, 4 Johns. (N. Y.) Ch. 870.
We think, therefore, the Circuit Court erred in holding the
contract of the city with the plaintiff invalid.
Nothing remains but to consider the extent of the proviso
following the first clause of the agreement. It is insisted on
behalf of the city, and it was so held by the circuit judge, that
the proviso was a condition precedent to the performance of
any part of the work, and was required to be performed before
any part of the contract became binding on the city. Such is
not our construction of the contract. The petition of the
plaintiffs, with its amendments, sets forth the ordinances of

HITCHCOCK V. GALVESTON.

[Sup. Or.

the city, and avers that the city, contemporaneously with this
contract, made various other contracts with other parties for
paving the sidewalks named, with the various materials respectively therein named, each conditioned, as was the contract
with the plaintiffs, that the lot-owners should select the kind
of pavement, whether asphalt or some other kind, directed by
the ordinance. The plain object of this proviso was to save to
the lot-owners /the privilege given to them by the ordinance
directing the pavements to be constructed. They were to be
constructed, at all events, of one or the other of certain specified materials, and the lot-owners were allowed to select which.
If in any block they preferred brick, the contractor for br:ck
paving was to put down that kind of paving. If they preferred asphalt, the contractor for asphalt was to pave with that
material. But the ordinance gave to the lot-owners no liberty
of choice whether there should be a pavement or none, or
whether the sidewalks should be filled, graded, curbed, and
prepared for a pavement of some kind, or not. That was
determined by the council. That work was absolutely directed
to be done. And the contract, we think, followed the ordinance. In it the undertakings of the plaintiffs for paving.
filling, grading, tamping, rolling, and curbing are kept distinct
from each other, and it is only to laying down an asphalt pavement that the proviso required the consent of the lot-owners.
No other construction is consistent with the other parts of the
contract. The proviso follows immediately the provision for
the asphalt pavement. It is succeeded by arrangements for
the filling, grading, and rolling, in the language of the parties,
"necessary and needed to be done upon any and all of the
said sidewalks, preparatory to the laying of any pavement
thereon." The contract, so far as it relates to the next subject, is still more significant. We refer to the agreement for
the wooden curbing that might be needed or used in filling up
and grading the said sidewalks, "preparatory to the putting
down of the said pavement, or any other." From this it is
evident the parties contemplated that the plaintiffs should do
the preparatory work upon all the sidewalks intended to be
improved; namely, the work needed to put those sidewalks in
a fit condition to receive any one of the pavements prescribed

Oct. 1877.]

HITCHCOCK v. GALVESTON.

by the ordinance. Which one should crown the preparatory
work was to be left primarily to the selection of the lot-owners
in each block. If a majority of them chose asphalt, the plaintiffs were to do the work. If a majority chose some one other
of the materials allowed in the ordinance, the contractor for a
pavement made of that other material was to construct that
pavement. The filling and curbing was to be done by the
plaintiffs in afiy event, and it was only the paving thereafter
respecting which the lot-owners had any voice.
This suit has not been brought for paving, nor for any
breach of the defendant's contract respecting the paving.
The claim is for damages caused by the abrogation or breach
of the city's contract relating to other and distinct subjects.
Hence it was not necessary to aver any consent of the owners
of the property abutting upon the sidewalks.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the original and amended
petitions sufficiently set forth a cause of action, and that the
Circuit Court erred in sustaining the defendant's demurrer.
The judgment will be reversed, and the record remitted
with instructions to give judgment on the demurrer against
the defendant; and it is
So ordered.
Mn. JUSTICE BRADLEY, with whom concurred MR. JUSTIOC
MuLLER and M

. JUSTICE FELD, dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case, being
of opinion that the proviso requiring the assent of the property
holders related to the entire work around each block, and not
merely to the kind of pavement to be used; and that the contractors had no authority to do any work on any particular
block, without such previous assent.

woL. ri. 23

