Oct. 1877.]

BRINE v. LNSURANCE

BRIn

Co.

v. INSuRANcE COmp

Ty.

1. The laws of the State in which land is situated control exclusively its descent%
alienation, and transfer, and the effect and construction of instruments
intended to convey it.
. All such laws in existence when a contract in regard to real estate is made,
including the contract of mortgage, enter into and become a part of such
contract.
S. A State statute, therefore, which allows to the mortgagor twelve months to
redeem, after a sale under a decree of foreclosure, and to his judgment
creditor three months after that, governs to that extent the mode of transferring the title, and confers a substantial right, and thereby becomes a rule
of property.
4. This right of redemption after sale is, therefore, as obligatory on the Federal
courts sitting in equity, as on the State courts; and their rules of practice
must be made to conform to the law of the State, so far as may be necessary to give full effect to the right.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
This suit began by a bill in chancery, filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of Illinois,
by the Hartford Fire Insurance Company, to foreclose a mortgage, in the form of a deed of trust, on a lot in Chicago. The
deed was signed by Bartalott and Barbier, and their wives, and
conveyed the lot to Benjamin E. Gallup, in trust to secure the
payment of $7,000, loaned to them by the company, and the interest thereon as it fell due. The lot, the title whereto was in
the grantors when that deed was made, was afterwards sold and
conveyed by them to Samuel J. Walker. Walker sold, but did
not convey, to Ida R. Brine, who, dying, left as her sole heir
Ida Winter Brine.
Walker, after his sale to Ida R. Brine,-which was evidenced by a written instrument,- conveyed the lot to J. Irving
Pearce, in order that the sum of $6,000, which she owed him
on the contract of purchase, might be held by Pearce as security
for a debt of Walker to the Third National Bank of Chicago.
All the parties interested in the lot were made defendants, except the bank, whose interest was represented by Pearce.
A final decree was made, which ascertained the sum due on
the mortgage, and allowed defendants one hundred days to pay

628

BRINE V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

it. If not paid within that time, the special master was ordered
to sell the land for cash, making such sale in accordance with
the course and practice of the court; and, after retaining his
commissions, and paying the costs of the proceedings, deposit
the remainder with the clerk, together with his report of sale,
to abide the further order of the court.
From this decree Ida Winter Brine appeals.
The statute of Illinois bearing on the case is set out, an]
the assignment of errors mentioned in the opinion of the court.
M.r, Melville W. Fuller for the appellant.
As the mortgage or deed of trust conveyed land in Illinois,
the right which the appellee acquired thereby depends upon
the laws of that State in force at the time it was made. They
created and defined the legal and equitable obligations of the
contract which is sought to be enforced as fully as if they had
been incorporated in it. A foreclosure, therefore, by suit,
instituted in either the Federal or the State court, must be in
accordance with them, so far as that right is involved. Bronson
v. Kinzie, I How. 311; MeCraccen v. Hayward, 2 id. 608;
Gantly's Lessee v. Ewing, 3 id. 707; Von JRoffman v. Quincy,
4 Wall. 535; Clark v. Beyburn, 8 id. 318; Me Goon v. Scales,
9 id. 23; Doe v. Heath, 7 Blackf. (Ind.) 154; Sheets v. Peabody, id. 613; Franklinv. Thurston, 8 id. 160; Cargill v. Power,
1 Mich. 369; Malony v. Fortune, 14 Iowa, 417; Scobey v.
Gibson, 17 Ind. 572; Bixby v. Bailey, 11 Kan. 359; Carroll
v. Bossiter, 10 Minn. 174; Wharton, Conflict of Laws, 273,
274. Their effect is to vest in the mortgagor, or his grantee
of the equity of redemption, a new estate, to continue fifteen
months after the sale under a decree of foreclosure. Farrell,
&c. et al. v. Parlier,50 Ill. 274; D' Wolf et al. v. Radyn, 24
id. 525; Campbell v. Vining, 23 id. 525.
The decree in question directs the master to sell, in pursuance of the course and practice of the court, by which for
years mortgaged lands have been sold, by the marshal, without
reserving after the sale any right of redemption, and of which
this court will take judicial notice. Oliver v. Palmer & Hamilton, 11 Gill & J. (Md.) 426 ; Contee v. Pratt, 9 Md. 67;
Iewell v. Newton, 10 Pick. (Mass.) 470; March v. (Cnmon
wealth, 12 B, Mon. ( Kv.) 25; Chitty v. Dendy. 3 Ad. & E.

Oct. 1877.J]

.BRINE

V. INSURANCE 00.

-319; United States v. Teschmaker et al., 22 How. 392; Romero
v. United States, 1 Wall. 721; 1 GreenI. Evid., sects. 6 and 6 a,
The right of redemptioii is a substantial one. At sheriff's
sale, under the statute, the purchaser obtains a certificate which
entitles him only to a deed in fifteen months therefrom, provided no redemption is made; whereas, by a sale under this
decree, that right is defeated, inasmuch as he acquires a present
estate in the land, and the right of immediate entry thereon,
not depending upon any subsequent contingency. Phillipsv.
Demoss et al., 14 Ill. 410; .Karnes v. Lloyd et al., 52 id. 113;
ilartin v. Judd, 60 id. 78.
The statute securing this right of redemption is a binding
'ule of property, and, when not in conflict with the Constitution, the treaties, or the laws of the United States, should be
administered by the Federal as well as by the State courts.
Bronson v. Kinzie, supra; Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195; M1leade
v. Beale, Taney, Dec. 339; Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet. 291;
Shlipp v. Millen's Heirs, 2 Wheat. 316; Thacher v. Powell,
6 id. 119; Parkerv. Overman, 18 How. 137; Bitch v. Creighton, 24 id. 159; Lorman et al. v. Clark, 2 McLean, 568.
31r. Edward S. 14ham, eontra.
The statute of Illinois, invoked by the appellant, regulates
the process of her courts in foreclosure cases. Having been
passed in 1841, it could not have been adopted by the act of
Congress of 1828 as a rule for the Federal courts. Counsel for
the appellant admits that it was never adopted by the court
below, or here. It has, therefore, no application to the present
suit, and no error was committed by disregarding it, and adhering to the precedents of the Chancery Court of England, and to
the rules of practice and procedure prescribed by Congress and
the Supreme Court, or adopted by the court below. *Const.
U. S., art. 3, sects. 1, 2; Temporary Process Act of Sept. 24,
1789; Judiciary Act of Sept. 24, 1789, sects. 2-4; Process
Act of May 8, 1792, sect. 2; Process Act of May 19, 1828,
sects. 1, 3 (4 Stat. 278); Act of Aug. 23, 1842 (5 id. 516);
Act of June 1, 1872, sects. 5, 6 (17 id. 197); U. S. Rev. Stat.,
sects. 913 to 916 inclusive; Equity Rules Supreme Court, Nos.
89, 90; Robison v. Campbell, 3 Wheat. 212; Sturges v. Orowninshlield, 4 id. 122; Wayman v. Southard, 10 4d. 1; Bank of

BRINE V. INSURANCE C .

[Sup. ot

the United 5'tates v. Halsted, id. 51; Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley's Lessee, 2 Pet. 492; Boyle v. Zacharie, 6 id. 348; Ross v.
Duval, 13 id. 45; Williams v. Waldo et al., 3 Scam. (Ill.) 264;
clCracken v. H7ayward, 2 id.
Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 How. 311 ;
246;
Am. Law Review, vol. i.
608; Thompson v. Phillips, Bald.
p. 23 ; Payne v. Hook, 7 Wall. 425 ; Cowles v. lercer County,
id. 118; Railway Company v. Whitton, 13 id. 270; insuranc3
Company v. lbrse, 20 id. 445; Doyle v. Insurance Companh,
94 U. S. 535.
The courts of the United States for the districts of Illinois,
in executing their decrees, do, by their own forms, modes of
procedure, and process, give just and full effect to the equity
of redemption, in foreclosure proceedings, so far as it constitutes an estate in the mortgagor.
A State statute which furnishes a rule of property or decision,
within the meaning of the thirty-fourth section of the Judiciary
Act, undoubtedly controls the contract; but "laws which relate
to practice, process, or modes of proceeding before or after judgment, are exceptions to the thirty-fourth section." Thompson
v. Phillips, supra; Mayman v. Southard, supra. Of the latter
character is the statute in question. It relates only to the
means for carrying a judgment or decree into execution ; but
it cannot reach the procedure and process of the courts of the
United States.
The party who, in asserting his rights ex contractu, invokes
the jurisdiction of the Federal courts is entitled to the methods
and process by which it is exercised. It is urged by the appellant that the law in force when the contract is made forms a
part of it. No reason can, however, be assigned why the Federal enactment establishing the forms of remedy, and the modes
of proceeding in the Federal courts, does not enter into the
contract with the same effect as the statutes of a State which
prescribe the modes and incidents of the remedy in her own
courts. If the appellee, although subject to the jurisdiction of
the courts of the United States, contracted, by implication, to
exclude their procedure, then those courts from time to time,
and without reference to the act of 1828, must adapt their
equity practice to the constantly recurring changes in Stale
legislation.

Oct. 1877.]

BRINE V. INSURANCE

0.

IR. JUSTICE MILER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We will notice the errors assigned in their order.
1. The money borrowed of the insurance company was
evidenced by a bond for the principal sum of $7,000, and the
semi-annual interest by coupons attached to said bond; and
the court allowed interest on such of these coupons as were
due and unpaid; and this is asserted to be error. We have
decided more than once in this court that such instruments are
so far distinct contracts for the payment of money, that when
they become due they bear interest, and may be sued on
separately from the bond. Cromwell v. County of Sac, supra,
p. 51.
2. It is objected that complainant was allowed in the decree premiums paid for insurance of the house covered by the
mortgage. The deed of trust required the grantors to keep
the property insured for the benefit of complainant ; and, wher
they failed to do this, we think the sum paid by the trustee foi
such insurance is a proper charge, and a lien under the trust-deed.
3. By reason of the conveyance of the lot to Pearce, aftel
Walker had sold to Mrs. Brine, and received 85,000 of the purchase-money, the appellant, her heir, insisted that, before final
decree in favor of the complainant, the right to the equity of
redemption under the trust-deed should be ascertained and settled by the court, as between her and Pearce, in order that, if
she paid the insurance company's debt, she might know what
she was getting for it. For this purpose she made application
to be permitted to file a cross-bill; but she did not pay, or offer
to bring into court, for the use of the company, the money
which was due on the mortgage. The court refused to delay
the decree in favor of the complainant for this purpose, but, by
the decree, allowed any of the defendants to pay the money
found due within a hundred days, and thus prevent the sale;
and it also ordered, that if the lot sold for more than the debt,
interest, and costs, the excess should be paid into court. The
rights of these parties to the surplus could then be litigated.
In this we are of the opinion the court did precisely what equity
and equity practice required. The complainant's debt was due,
and was undisputed as a lien on the lot paramount to all others;

BRINE V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and the complainant had no interest in the controversy between
appellant and Pearce, and should not have been delayed until
the end of a long suit for a specific performance, which could
not affect the right of the complainant to have its money out
of the lot.
While these errors are pointed out by the counsel for the
appellant, in his brief, but little is said about them ; and in the
full and able arguments, oral and printed, by counsel on both
sides, these questions are ignored or passed over in favor of one
which they deem of very great importance; and in this they
have the concurrence of the court.
4 It is said by counsel for the appellant that the statutes
of Illinois allow one year after sale, in such a case as the present, for redemption by the debtor, and three months after that
by any judgment creditor of the debtor; making fifteen months
before the purchaser has a right to his deed and to possession.
It is assigned for error that this decree not only makes no
provision for such redemption, but, by its terms, cuts off and
defeats that right.
If the point had been raised or insisted on by the appellee,
it would admit of doubt whether this question is fairly raised
by the decree; for while it orders the sale of the lot, and a
report to the court, it says nothing about barring the equity of
redemption, nor of the making of a deed; and, but for a single
phrase in the decree, it would seem that the appropriate time
to raise this question would be on the confirmation of the
i.eport of sale and the order for a deed to the purchaser, which
has not yet been done. But it is conceded by counsel here on
both sides, that it is according to the course and practice of the
court that the master makes to the purchaser at the sale a deed
for the land; which deed, by the uniform practice of the court,
gives him the right to immediate possession, and cuts off all right
of redemption, whether statutory or otherwise.
If this be true, which we have no reason to doubt, then the
decree which ordered the sale to be made in accordance with
the course and practice of the court does deny and defeat the
right which the appellant asserts, to redeem by paying the
amount of the bid, with interest, twelve months after the sale
As it is important to the holder of the equity of redemption to

Oct. 1877.]

BRINE V. INSURANCE C.

know whether it is essential to the exercise of her light to
redeem, that it be exercised before the sale, or can be -with
equal safety exercised a year later, and as the question is one
of importance and frequent recurrence on the circuits, it ieminently proper that it be decided now.
The statutes of Illinois in force on this subject when this
mortgage was made, and for a great many years before, are
found in the Revised Statutes of 1845, pages 302-305, as
follows :"It shall be lawful for any defendant, his heirs, executors, or
grantees, whose land shall have been sold by virtue of any execution, within twelve months from such sale, to redeem such land, by
paying to the purchaser thereof, his executors, administrators, or
assigns, or to the sheriff or other officer who sold the same, for the
benefit of such purchaser, the sum of money paid on the purchase
thereor, together with interest thereon, at the rate of ten per cent
per annum, from the time of such sale; and on such sum being paid
as aforesaid, the sale and certificate shall be null and void2'
"In all cases hereafter, where lands shall be sold under and by
virtue of any decree of a court of equity, for the sale of mortgagelands, it shall be lawful for the mortgagor of such lands, his heirs,
executors, administrators, or grantees, to redeem the same, in the
manner provided in this chapter for the redemption of lands sold
by virtue of executions issued upon judgments at common law;
and judgment creditors may redeem lands sold under any such
decree, in the same manner as is prescribed for the redemption of
lands sold on execution issued upon judgments at common law."
It is denied that these statutes are of any force in cases where
the decree of foreclosure is rendered in a court of the United
States, on the ground that the equity practice of these courts
i2 governed solely by the precedents of the English Chancery
Court as they existed prior to the declaration of independence,
and by such rules of practice as have been established by the
Supreme Court of the United States, or adopted by the circuit
courts for their own guidance. And treating all the proceedings subsequent to a decree which are necessary for its enforcement as matter of practice, and as belonging solely to the course
of procedure in courts of equity, it is said that not only do the
manner of conducting the sale under a decree of foreclosure,

BRINE v. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

and all the incidents of such a sale, come within the rules of
practice of the court, but that the effects of such a sale, on the
rights acquired by the purchaser and those of the mortgagor,
and his subsequent grantees, are also mere matters of practice
to be regulated by the rules of the court, as found in the sources
we have mentioned.
On the other hand, it is said that the effect of the sale and
conveyance made by the commissioner is to transfer the title of
real estate from one person to another, and that all the means
by which the title to real property is transferred, whether by
deed, by will, or by judicial proceeding, are subject to, and may
be governed by, the legislative will of the State in which it lies,
except where the law of the State on that subject impairs the
obligation of a contract. And that all the laws of a State
existing at the time a mortgage or any other contract is made,
which affect the rights of the parties to the contract, enter into
and become a part of it, and are obligatory on all courts which
assume to give remedy on such contracts.
We are of opinion that the propositions last mentioned are
sound ; and if they are in conflict with the general doctrine of
the exemption from State control of the chancery practice of
the Federal courts, as regards mere modes of procedure, they
are of paramount force, and the latter must to that extent give
way. It would seem that no argument is necessary to establish
the proposition that when substantial rights, resting upon a
statute, which is clearly within the legislative power, come in
conflict with mere forms and modes of procedure in the courts,
the latter must give way, and adapt themselves to the forms
necessary to give effect to such rights. The flexibility of chancery methods, by which it moulds its decrees so as to give appropriate relief in all cases within its jurisdiction, enables it to do
this without violence to principle. If one or the other must
give way, good sense unhesitatingly requires that justice and
positive rights, founded both on valid statutes and valid contracts, should not be sacrificed to mere questions of mode and
form.
Let us see if the statutes of Illinois on this subject do confer
positive and substantial rights in this matter.
It is not denied that in suits for foreclosure in the courts of

Oct. 1877.]

BRINE V. INSURANCE CO.

that State the right to redeem within twelve months after the
sale under a decree of foreclosure is a valid right, and one which
must govern those courts.
Nor is it pretended that this court, or any other Federal
court, can, in such case, review a decree of the State court
which gives the right to redeem. This is a clear recognition
that nothing in that statute is in conflict with any law of the
United States. If this be so, how can a court, whose function?
rest solely in powers conferred by the United States, administer
a different law which is in conflict with the right in question?
To do so is at once to introduce into the jurisprudence of the
State of Illinois the discordant elements of a substantial right
which is protected in one set of courts and denied in the other,
with no superior to decide which is right. Olcott v. Bynum et
al., 17 Wall. 44; Ex parte Jc2Veil, 13 id. 236.
Of the soundness of the first proposition of the appellant it
would seem there can, under the decisions of this court, be little
doubt.
The earliest utterance of the court on the subject is fouild in
the case of the United States v. Crosby (7 Cranch, 115), in
which this explicit language is used: "The court entertain no
doubt on the subject; and are clearly of opinion that the title
to land can be acquired and lost only in the manner prescribed
by the law of the place where such land is situated." And in
Clarke v. Graham (6 Wheat. 577) it said: "It is perfectly clear
that no title to lands can be acquired or passed, unless according
to the laws of the State in which they are situate."
In the case of lMlccormick v. Sullevant (10 id. 192), the court
held a will devising lands in Ohio, which was made and recorded
in Pennsylvania, where the devisor resided, and which was otherwise perfect, inoperative to confer title in Ohio, because it had
not been probated in that State, as the law of Ohio required.
"It is an acknowledged principle of law," said the court, "that
the title and disposition of real property is exclusively subject
to the laws of the country where it is situated, which can alone
prescribe the mode by which a title to it can pass from one
person to another."
In the case of Watts et al. v. Waddell et al. (6 Pet. 889), a
question very much like the one before us arose. Watts was

BRINE V. iNSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

seeking to compel Waddell to accept a deed and pay for land
which he had sold him many years before, the relief sought
being in the nature of specific performance. It was objected
that Watts could not convey a good title to a part of the land
which he claimed to receive from the heirs of Powell by a decreo
rendered in the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky. And
although the proper parties were before that court, and a conveyance had been made to Watts by a commissioner appointed
by the court, it was held that, as no statute of Ohio recognized
such a mode of transferring title, the deed of the commissioner
was wholly ineffectual. It will be seen that here was a court
of equity, proceeding according to its usual forms, transferring
title from one party to another, both of whom were before the
court, yet its decree held wholly ineffectual under the principle
we are considering.
We will close these citations by using the language which
had the unanimous assent of the court in the recent case of
1ifc Goon v. Scales (9 Wall. 23) : "It is a principle too firmly
established to admit of dispute at this day, that to the law of
the State in which land is situated must we look for the rules
which govern its descent, alienation, and transfer, and for the
effect and construction of conveyances."
The decree in this case, the sale made under it, and the deed
made on tha6 sale, will constitute a transfer of the title within
the meaning of the principle thus laid down. Neither the purchaser at that sale, nor any one holding under him, can show
title in any other way than through the judicial proceeding in
this suit. These proceedings are a necessary part of the transfer of title. The legislature of Illinois has prescribed, as an
essential element of the transfer by the courts in foreclosure
suits, that there shall remain to the mortgagor the right of
redemption for twelve months, and to judgment creditors a
similar right for fifteen months, after the sale, before the right
of the purchaser to the title becomes vested. This right, as a
condition on which the title passes, is as obligatory on the
Federal courts as on the State courts, because in both cases it
is made a rule of property by the legislature, which had the
power to prescribe such a rule. See Uni ed States v. Foz, 94
U. S.315.

Oct. 1877.]

BRINE V. INSURANCE CO.

But there is another view of the question which is equally
forcible, and which leads to the same result. All contracts
between private parties are made with reference to the law of
the place where they are made or are to be performed. Their
construction, validity, and effect are governed by the place
where they are made and are to be performed, if that be the
same as it is in this case. It is, therefore, said that these laws
enter into and become a part of the contract.
There is no doubt that a distinction has been drawn, or
attempted to be drawn, between such laws as regulate the
rights of the parties, and such as apply only to the remedy. It
may be conceded that in some cases such a distinction exists.
In the recent case of Tennessee v. Sneed (supra, p. 69), we held
that, so long as there remained a sufficient remedy on the contract, an act of the legislature, changing the form of the remedy,
did not impair the obligation of the contract. But this doctrine
was said to be subject to the limitation that there remained a
remedy which was complete, and which secured all the substantial rights of the party.
At all events, the decisions of this court are numerous that
the laws which prescribe the mode of enforcing a contract,
which are in existence when it is made, are so far a part of the
contract that no change in these laws which seriously interfere
with that enforcement are valid, because they impair its obligation within the meaning of the Constitution of the United
States. -Edwardsv. Kearzey, supra, p. 595. That this very
right of redemption, after a sale under a decree of foreclosure,
is a part of the contract of mortgage, where the law giving the
right exists when the contract is made, is very clearly stated
by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, in the case of Bronson v. Kinzie,
1 How. 311. That case was one which turned on the identical
statute of Illinois which is invoked by the appellant in this
case. The mortgage, however, on which that suit was founded
was made before the statute was passed; and the court held, that,
because the statute conferred a new and additional right on one
of the parties to the contract, which impaired its obligation, it
was for that reason forbidden by the Constitution of the United
States, and void as to that contract. But the Chief Justice, in
aelivering the opinion, further declared, that, as to all contracts

BRINE V. INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

made after its enactment, the statute entered into and became
a part of the contract, and was therefore valid and binding in
the Federal courts as well as those of the State. As it is impossible to state the case and the doctrine applicable to the case
before us any better, we give the language of the court on that
occasion :"When this contract was made," said the court, "no statute
had been passed by the State changing the rules of law or
equity in relation to a contract of this kind, and it must, therefore, be governed, and the rights of the parties under it measured, by the rules above stated. They were the laws of Illinois
at the time, and, therefore, entered into the contract, and
formed a part of it, without any express stipulation to that
effect in the deed. Thus, for example, there is no covenant in
the instrument giving the mortgagor the right to redeem by
paying the money after the day limited in the deed, and before
he was foreclosed by the decree of the Court of Chancery: yet
no one doubts his right or his remedy; for, by the laws of the
State then in force, this right and this remedy were a part of
the law of the contract, without any express agreement of the
parties." Speaking of the law now under consideration, he
said: " This law gives to the mortgagor and to the judgment
creditor an equitable estate in the premises, which neither of
them would have been entitled to under the original contract;
and these new interests are directly and materially in conflict
with those which the mortgagee acquired when the mortgage
was made." "Mortgages made since the passage of these laws
must undoubtedly be governed by them; for every State has
the power to prescribe the legal and equitable obligations of a
contract to be made and executed within its jurisdiction. It
may exempt any property it thinks proper from sale for the
payment of a debt, and may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the creditor as its judgment and policy may dictate.
And all future contracts would be subject to such provisions,
and they would be obligatory on the parties in the courts of
the United States, as well as in those of the State."
In Clark v. Reyburn (8 Wall. 318), the court, in recognition
of the doctrine that the statute becomes a part of the contract,
uses this language: "In this country, the proceeding in most of

Oct. 1877.]

BOaINE v. INSURANO E CO.

the States, and perhaps in all of them, is regulated by.statute.
The remedy thus provided, when the mortgage is executed,
enters into the convention of the parties, in so far that any
change by legislative authority which affects it substantially
to the injury of the mortgagee, is held to be a law 'impairing
the obligation of the contract,' within the meaning of the provision of the Constitution upon the subject."
We are not insensible to the fact that the industry of counse
has been rewarded by finding cases even in this court in wh. ea
the proposition that the rules of practice of the Federal courts
in suits in equity cannot be controlled by the laws of the
States, is expressed in terms so emphatic and so general as to
seem to justify the inference here urged upon us. But we do
not find that it has been decided in any case that this principle
has been carried so far as to deny to a party in those courts
substantial rights conferred by the statute of a State, or to add
to or take from a contract that which is made a part of it by
the law of the State, except where the law impairs the obligation of a contract previously made. And we are of opinion
that Mr. Chief Justice Taney expressed truly the sentiment
of the court as it was organized in the case of Bronson v.
Kinzie, as it is organized now, and as the law of the case is,
when he said that "all future contracts would be subject to
such provisions, and they would be obligatory upon the parties in the courts of the United States as well as those of the
States."
It is not necessary, as has been repeatedly said 'in this court,
that the form or mode of securing a right like this should follow precisely that prescribed by the statute. If the right is
substantially preserved or secured, it may be done by such suitable methods as the flexibility of chancery proceedings will
enable the court to adopt, and which are most in conformity
with the practice of the court. Ex parte ltcNeill, 13 Wall.
236. In the case before us no better mode occurs to us than
that prescribed by the statute; namely, that the master making the sale shall give to the purchaser a certificate of the sale,
with the sum at which the land was sold, and a statement that,
unless redeemed within fifteen months by some one authorised
by the law to make suci redemption, he will be entitled to

GOLD-MINING

Co.

V. NATIONAL BANK.

[Sup. Ct

deed. The matter being thus reported to the court, it can, al
the end of the time limited, make such final decree of confirmation and foreclosure of all equities as are necessary and proper:
or, if the land be redeemed, then such other decree as thE
rights of the parties consequent on such redemption may
require.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be reversed, so far as it
requires the sale to be made in accordance with the course and
practice of the court, and the case remanded with directions to
modify the decree, by making provision for the sale and redemp.
tion in conformity to this opinion; and it is
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN dissented.

GOLD-M
/iH

G COmPANY

v.

NATIoNAL

BANKL.

I. A defendant, sued by a national bank for moneys it loaned him, cannot set ul
as a bar that they exceeded in amount one-tenth part of its capital stocb
actually paid in.
2. Where an agent, without authority, borrows moneys in the name of his principal, and the latter, when they have been applied to his use and payment is
demanded of him, fails, within a reasonable time thereafter, to disavow thE
act of his agent, the jury is authorized to consider the principal as assenting
to what was done in his name.
A juror in a 6i vil action, who, on his voire dire, expresses an entire willingness,
as well as ability, to accept the facts as they shall be developed by the evi
dence, and return a verdict in accordance with them, is not rendered incom
petent by having previously conversed with a person about the case, and
received an impression in relation to the facts.

EaROR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
MJr. Wheeler H. Peckham for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. J. M. Woolworth, contra.
Mr. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the Rocky Mountain National Banl
against the Union Gold-Mining Company of Colorado, to recove

