Time DASHING WAVE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

tending through a long series of years down to the present
time.
We cannot doubt that the power exists in the legislature,
and it is not for this court to revise the facts upon which it
has seen fit to exercise it.
Mr. Justice DAVIS dissented.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

THE DASHING WAVE.
1. A neutral, professing to be engaged in trade with a neutral port, under
circumstances which warrant close observation by a blockading squadron, must keep his vessel, while discharging or receiving cargo, so clearly
on the neutral side of the blockading line as to repel, so far as position
can repel, all imputation of intent to break the blockade. Neglect of
that duty may well justify capture and sending in for adjudication;
though, in the absence of positive evidence that the neglect was wilful,
it might not justify a condemnation.
2. 'Where a party, whose national character does not appear, gives his own
money to a neutral house, to be shipped with money of that house and
in their name, to a neutral port in immediate proximity to a blockaded
rgion, and an attorney in fact, on capture of the money and libel of it
as prize, states that such neutral house are the owners thereof, and that
11no other persons are interested therein," the capture and sending in
will be justified; though in the absence of proof of an enemy's character in the party shipping his money with the neutral's, a condemnation
may not be.
3. On a capture of a vessel unobservant, through mere carelessness, of the
duty first above mentioihed, and containing money shipped under the
circumstances just stattod, a decree was made restoring the vessel and
cargo, including the money; but apportioning the costs and expenses
consequent on the capture ratably between the vessel and the coin, exempting from contribution the rest of the cargo.

DURING the late Rebellion, and while the coast of the South-

ern States, including that of Texas to the mouth of the Rio
Grande, was under blockade by the United States, the Dashing Wave, a British-owhled brig, was captured at anchor by
a United States gunboat, off the mouth ofthat river, the di.

Dec. 1866.]

THlE DASHING WAVE.

171

Statement of the case.

viding stream between the United States and Mexico, a neutral, and libelled as prize of war in the District Court of New
Orleans. The vessel was employed as a general ship on a
voyage from Liverpool to Matamoras, a Mexican town on
the Rio Grande, directly opposite to Texas. She had been
freighted at Liverpool in 1862 with an assorted cargo, consigned by ten or more shippers to various persons and firms
described as resident at Matamoras. There was no contraband aboard. The most remarkable shipment was one of
£12,000 gold coin, in the name of Lizardi & Co., British subjects of Liverpool. By claim put in after the libel filed for
Lizardi & Co., by their agent at New Orleans, it was claimed
as their property, it being stated that no other persons were
interested therein. Correspondence found on board the captured vessel showed, however, that £7000 of the £12,000
were owned by one H. N. Caldwell, and had been shipped
to the Matamoras consignee for the purchase of cotton either
in Texas or Matamoras on the joint account of Lizardi & Co.
and Caldwell.
The residence and business of Caldwell were not fully disclosed in the record. It did not appear that be was a British
merehant, nor that he had any commercial domicil in Mexico, nor yet that he waq a rebel enemy. He bad apparently
married in England shortly before the vessel sailed, and was
on board with his wife and servant at the time of capture.
The nationality of the wife and servant the captain stated to
be English; but he did not know what that of Caldwell was.
They were all permitted to go ashore with their luggage by
the boarding officer. Caldwell had, apparently, no interest
in the vessel or cargo. He appeared, by the letters, to have
been engaged in cotton transactions, and to have proposed
to Lizardi & Co. the plan of shipping all the gold to Mexico as their own property. Caldwell made no claim for an"
part of the gold, nor did he personally appear in any way
in the case.
On the proofs in preparatorio the place of capture, as respecting the middle or dividing line of the Rio Grande, appeared doubtful.

THE DASHING WAvE.

[Slip. Cf.

Argument for the United States.

The testimony of naval witnesses, examined under an order
which had been obtained by the captors for further proof as
to the place of capture and the character of the cargo, asserted that the vessel, when seized, was on the northern,
that is to say, the American side, of the boundary line, and
in our waters. The master swore to the ontrary.
In point of fact, as appeared by a Coast Survey chart, on
which her exact position was marked by a witness of the
captors, the master was wrong. The vessel was in waters
actually blockaded. The position of the vessel made access
to our coast, then in possession of enemy rebels, and under
blockade, as easy as to that of Mexico, a neutral. (See
chart opposite, inserted for convenience, laterally.)
The District Court at New Orleans made two decrees: one
restoring the vessel and cargo-a decree from which the United States now appealed; the second refusing damages and
ordering payment of costs and charges (pxceeding $12,000)
by the claimants-from which decree the claimants, appealed.
Mr. Ashton, Assistant A ttorney- General,for the United &Sates:
1. The position of the vessel, even if in Mexican waters,
was so dubious as justly to expose her and her cargo to condetnnation for violatinmg blockade. She had no right to put
herself in a position where she could, by night or in a moment when the blockading fleet was distant, land her cargo
on the coast of Texas, a coast unquestionably blockaded.
2. There should, be no final decree of restitut ion without
further proof adduced by the claimants touching the commnercial domicil and nationality of Caldwell.
The record contains no evidence in favor of the neutral
character of Caldwell, but, on the contrary, it strongly suggests that he was a hostile person. His presence on board
the captured vessel with his wife and servant; the professed
ignorance of the master and mates of the nationality and
business of the party; the suggestion, in his correspondence
with Lizardi & Co. that the gold,-of which he himself
owned the largest part,-should be covered and consigned,

Dec. 1866.]

THE DASHING

WAVE.

Sketch showing the position of vessels.

Q)

a

THE DASH1ING WAVE.

[SLIP,

Ct

Argument for the claimants.

in the bill of lading, as the neutral property of the British
house; the pr evious commercial dealings of the party as inferable from his correspondence; the rash or false statement
by the attorney that no one but the Lizardis were interested
in the gold, are sufficient, in a prize court, to warrant inference of his unneutral character, in the absence of clear
proof to the contrary.
If the claimants should neglect or fail, upon an order for
further proof being made, to establish the neutral character
of this party, then the entire property claimed by Lizardi
& Co. will be confiscable by reason of the attempt of those
parties to cover property of hostile ownership.
In the PhLnix Insurance Compan-y v. Pratt,*the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania held that a neutral master, who was
the general agent for a cargo of neutral ownership, subjected
the whole property of the principal on board the vessel to
condemnation, by attempting to cover in his own name other
goods of hostile ownership in the same vessel.
Mr. Marvin and Mr. Evarts, contra; Mr. Evartsfor Lizardi

Co.:
I. As to the vessel and cargo generally.
1. Neither the vessel nor the cargo was engaged in break.
ing blockade, fbr no blockade existed at the mouth of the
Rio Grande at the time of the capture.t
2. There is no evidence of the existence of any enemy interest in either ship or cargo, and the court will not presume
such interest to exist in a trade between one -neutral port and
another.
3. Anchoring in even American waters would of itself be
no cause of forfeiture, either under any principle of international law or under any act of Congress. The Rio Grande
and the waters leading into and from it are common to the
use of both Mexico and the United States, and their use has
not been prohibited to neutrals.1
f
t

2 Binney, 308; see also Earle v. Rowcroft, 8 East, 126.
See the Peterhoff, supra, p. 28.
The Schooner Fame, 3 Mason, 147; 6 Wheaton, 874.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

DASHING WAVE.

175

Argument for the claimants.

II. As to the £12,000 gold coin.
1. There is no support for a surmise that the consignm.ent
was not what the documents show it to be; one, namely,
from the shippers, Lizardi & Co., to their consignee, at Matamoras, there to be employed as the means of commercial
transactions intrusted to him.
It is not perceived that any question of enemy property
arises upon the special employment or application of this
capital, indicated in the correspondence; which, on tle contrary, confirms the integrity of the transaction of the consignment of the specie, and its employment as destined to
the actual and active care of the commercial house at Matamoras, to which it was addressed, and in the commerce of
that place.
That this money might be applied by the consignee under
his instructions from, and accountability to, Lizardi & Co.,
to trade in cottom, and for account of Caldwell, seems unimportant in its bearing on the question of prize or no prize.
Trade in cotton at Matamoras was wholly lawful, no matter
what the origin, or who the vendor of the cotton. Nothing
appears to expose Caldwell, or his connection with or interest in the possible transactions in which the specie might
be used, to any other construction or consequences than
would apply to Lizardi & Co.
The opportunity for further proof has been asked for and
obtained by the captors, and no damnatory evidence has
been produced by them.
2. The capture was wholly unjustifiable, and the restitution decreed should have been attended with damages and
costs.
When captors intercept an open prosecution of an apparently lawful trade, and visitation exhibits every trait of
honest neutrality, and the commerce thus indicated is not
only lawful, but is constantly engaged in by our own vessels
the integrity of the prize courts demands the infliction of
damages and costs as a cieck to the speculative cupidity ot
captors. The features of this ease are not distinguishable

Tim DASHING

WVE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

from those of the Magicienne, intercepted in her voyage
to Matamoras, and brought into Key West. She was
promptly restored, the diplomatic claim for damages immediately recognized, and, upon adjustment, paid by authority of an act of Congress.*
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Two decrees were rendered in the District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, the first, directing restitution
of the vessel and cargo; the second, refusing damages, and
ordering payment of costs and charges by the claimants.
The United States appealed from the first; the claimants
took an appeal from the second.
The proofs show that the Dashing Wave was a neutral
vessel, bound from Liverpool to Matamoras, with a cargo of
general merchandise and coin, no part of which was contraband.
It is clear, therefore, that the decree of restitution must be
affirmed.
The only question which requires much cbusideration relates to the rightfulness of capture. And this question resolves itself into two:
1. Was there anything in the position of the Dashing
Wave, at the time of capture, which warranted the opinion
of the captors that she was en gaged in breaking the blockade? and2. Was there anything in the papers on board the brig,
relating to the cargo, which justified the seizure?
It is claimed fbr the captors that she was taken in Texan
waters, lying convenient to the blockaded coast. The preparatory evidence left her position in much uncertainty, but
the testimony taken under the order for further proof, in
connection with the chart upon which her position is marked
by one of the witnesses, establishes it beyond reasonable
doubt. She was anchored north of the line between the
Diplomatic Correspondence, 1863, Part 11, pp. 511, 613, 565, 587, 588,

D~ec. 1866.]

THE

DASHING WAVE.

Opinion of the court.

Mexican and Texan waters, with as easy access to the land
on the rebel as on the Mexican side.
We think it Was the plain duty of a neutral claiming' to
be engaged in trade with Mdtamoras, under circumstances
which warranted close observation by the blockading squadron, to keep his vesselwhile discharging or receiving cargo,
so clearly on the neutral side of the boundary line as to repel, so far as position could repel, all iniputation of intent to
break the -blockade. He had no right to take, voluntarily,
a position in the immediate presence of the blockading fleet,
from which merchandise might be so easily introduced into
the blockaded region.
We do not say that neglect of duty, in this respect, on the
part of the brig, especially in the absence of positiye evidence
that the neglect was wilful, calls for condemnation; but we
cannot doubt that under the circumstances described, capturing and sending in for adjudication was fully warranted.
The other question relates wholly to the papers concerning the shipment of coin. There is no evidence which
affects with culpability any other part of the cargo.
The coin is claimed by Lizardi & Co., neutral merchants
of Liverpool; but tl-e proof shows that one I. N. Cald.
well was the real owner of the larger part of it. A letter,
dated August 17th, 1863, and addressed by Caldwell to Lizardi & Co., Istates his intention, in view of " the uncertain
state of our political affairs," to take gold to purchase cotton,
instead of taking goods to Mexico, if he can arrange for an
advance of £5000, making, with certain credits in his favor
with Lizardi & Co., and £3000 which he had in bank, a total
of £12,000, with which to operate.
In itio same letter he further proposed that the whole
amount should be shipped to J. Roman, of Matamoras, as
the property of Lizardi & Co. The next day Lizardi & Co.
acknowledged the receipt friom Caldwell of a check for the
£3000 in bank, and agreed to his proposals. Three days
later Lizardi & Co. addressed a letter to Roman, advising
him of the arrangement with Caldwell, and distinguishing
expressly the £5000 advanced by them from "the other
VOL. V.

12

THE SCIENCE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case

£7000 of the said gentleman." These letters were found on
board the brig.
Caldwell was a passenger on the brig, but was allowed to
leave before any question of his character was made. What
was that character in fact? Was he a rebel enemy or a neutral ?
The tenor of his letter to Lizardi & Co., his proposal that
the specie should be shipped as their property, when seventwelfths of it belonged to himself; and especially the circumstance that he has never made claim in this suit to any
part of it, except through Lizardi & Co., indicates that he
was not a neutral, but an enemy.
On the other hand, there is no positive proof of his enemy
character, though further proof was allowed to the captors.
This evidence, in our judgment, does not warrant condemnation of the specie, but it does, as we think, justify the
capture.
We shall therefore affirm the decree of the District Court,,
restoring the vessel and cargo, but direct that costs and expenses consequent upon the capture, be ratably apportioned
between the brig and the shipment of coin, and that the residue of the cargo be exempted from contribution.
DECREE AND

)IRECTIONS

ACCORDINGLY.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding appeal and crossappeal, and by the same counsel, were argued two cases;
one an appeal and cross-appeal, as the preceding, from the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana; the other, an appeal from the same court.
The first case Was that of
THE SCIENCE.

The Science had been captured by the American war steamer
Virginia, on the same day as the Dashing Wave, and the same
decrees were entered' in the District Court in respect to vessel
and cargo, and similar appeals were taken.

