RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

v.

BARRON.

1. A railroad company, which grants the use of its road to another company, is responsible for accidents caused to passengers which it itself
carries, by 'he negligence of the trains of the other company thus running by its permission.
2. When a statute-giving a right of action to the executor of a person killed
'by such an act as would, if death had not ensued, entitled such person
to maintain an action for damages-provides, that the amount recovered
shall be for the exclusive benefit of the widow, and next of kin, in the,
proportion provided by law in the distribution of personal property left
by persons dying intestate; and that " in every such action the jury
may give damages as th&y shall deem a fair and just compensation with
reference to pecuniary injuries resultlingfrom such death, 4c., not exceedis not necessary to the recovery that the widow and next
ig, &c.,-it
of kin should have had a legal claim on the deceased, if he had survived, for their support.
3. Semble," that statutes of this kind are enacted, as respects the measure
of damages, upon the idea that as a general fact the personal assets of
the deceased would take the direction given them by the law governing
the case of intestates. Hence any damages given must, as a general
thing, be so distributed, even though the party have left a will not so
devoting his property.
4. The damages in these cases must depend very much upon all the facts and
circumstances of the particular case. And as when the suit is brought
by the party himself, for injuries to himself, there can be no fixed measure
of compensation for the pain and anguish of body and mind, nor for the
loss of time and care in business, or the permanent injury to health and
body, so when it is brought by the representative for his death, the pecuniary injury resulting from the death to the next of kin is equally uncertain and indefinite. In the latter and more difficult case, as in the former
one, often difficult also, the result must be left to turn mainly upon the
sound sense and deliberate judgment of the jury, applied, as above stated,
to all the facts and circumst'snces.

ERROR to- the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the suit below having been one against a railroad
company to, recover damages for the death of a passenger
killed by its negligence.
A statute of Illinois 'enacts:
"SECT. 1. That whenever the death of a person shall be caused
by wrongful act, neglect, or default, and the act, neglect, or
default, is such as would, if death had not ensued, have entitled

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

91

Statement of the case.

the party injured to maintain an action and recover damages in
respect thereof, then, and in every such case, the person who, or
company or corporation Which, would have been liable if death
had not ensued, shall be liable to an action for damages nct
withstanding the death of the person injured, and although the
death shall have been caused under such circumstances as
amount to felony.
"SECT. 2. Every such action shall be brought by and in the
name of the personal representatives of such deceased person,
and the amount recovered in every such action shall be for the
exclusive benefit of the widow and next of kin of such deceased person,
and shall be distributed to such widow and next of kin, in the.
proportion provided by law, in relation to the distribution of
personal property left by persons dying intestate; and in every
such action the jury may give such damages as they shall deem
a fair and just compensation with reference to the pecuniary injuries resultingfrom such death, to the wife and next of kin of such
deceased person, not exceeding the sum of five thousand dollars."
With this statute in force, Barron's executor brought a
suit against the Illinois Central Railroad Company, to recover
damages for the death of his testator, occasioned by the
negligence of the company in conveying him as a passenger.
The deceased was killed while in the act of leaving the
car in obedience to the orders of the conductor, who apprehended an immediate collision with an express train that
was coming up behind with great speed: and which struck
the car with such violence in the rear as to split and drive it
on each side of the baggage car in front. The Illinois com-,
pany owned the road, but had granted or leased to the
Michigan Central Railroad Company, of which the express
train was one of the line, the privilege of running their
trains on this part of the road.
The testator was a bachelor, thirty-five years old, and had
an estate of about $35,000, all of which, as it was stated in
the argument, he left by his will to his father. He was au
attorney 13y profession, but for four years prior to his death
had been judge of the county court of Cook County, Illinois.
His term of office having then recently expired, he had
resumed, or was about to resume, the practice of his profes.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

sion, with a fair promise, as the evidence tended to show,
of doing ac well as before he was elected judge. His professional income, prior to his election as judge, had been
about $3000 dollars per annum.
The plaintiff was his father, and he left brothers and sisters; one of whom had formerly received some assistance
from him for support.
The defendant's counsel asked the court to charge the
jury as follows
"1st. That the statute under which the action was brought
intends to give no damages for the injury received by the deceased, but refers wholly to the pecuniary loss which the next
of kin may be found to have sustained. That it makes their
pecuniary loss the sole measure of damages, and that the satisfaction of that loss is therefore the sole purpose for which an
action of this kind can be instituted, there being nothing to be
allowed for bereavement. And that it is incumbent on the plaintiff, before he can recover anything more than nominal damages,
to show by the evidence that there are persons in existence
entitled to claim the indemnity given by the law, and that they
have sustained a pecuniary loss justifying their claim.
"2d. That to entitle the plaintiff to recover anything beyond
merely nominal damages, the parties for whose benefit the action
is brought must be shown by the evidence to have had at the
time of the death of Barren a legal interest in his life, and that
by his death they have been deprived of something to which
they had a legal right.
"'3d. That if the persons for whose benefit this action is
brought have received in consequence of the death of said Barroil, and out of this estate inherited by them from him, a pecuniary benefit greater than the maximum amount of damages
which could, under any circumstances, be recovered in this
action, then, as a matter of law, they have by the death of said
Barron sustained no actual pecuniary injury for which coirpen
sation can be recovered in this action.
"4th. That if the collision of the two trains of cars in cuestion, and the death resulting therefrom, was occasioned solely
by the carelessness or default of the persons in charge of the
express train,.and that the defendant had no authority or con-

Dec. 1'866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

93

Statement of the case.

trol over such persons, but that they were wholly under tho
authority and direction of the Michigan Central Railroad Corn.
pany, then the defendant is not liable in this action, even for
nominal damages."
But the court refused so to charge the jury; and charged
as follows:
It is contended by the defendant that as Barron was never
married, the next of kin, being his father, brothers, and sisters,
had no claim on him for support or services, and therefore there
could have been no pecuniary loss to them by his death.
We cannot adopt this construction of the law, but charge you
that there can be a recovery if the deceased left no kin surviving
him who had any legal clain on him if living, for support.
The cause of action is given in the first section of the act in
clear and unmistakable terms. If the injured party, by the
common law, had a right to sue if he had lived, then if'
he dies
his representatives can bring an action.
Many individuals who lose their lives by the fault of persons
and corp)rations are of age, unmarried, and have no next of kin
dependent on them for support. We cannot suppose that the
statute intended to give the representatives of such persons the
right to sue in one section and make that right nugatory in the
second section, by depriving them of all damages.
The policy of the law was evidently to make common carriers
more circumspect in regard to the lives intrusted to their care.
They were responsible at common law if through their fault
broken limbs were the result, but escaped responsibility i'f death
ensued. To remedy this evil and provide a continuing responsibility, was in the opinion of the court, the object of the law.
We do not -think it requisite to prove present actual pecuniary
loss. It can rarely be done. The attempt to do it would substitute the opinion of witnesses for the conclusions of the jury.
The facts proved will enable the jury to decide on the proper
measure of responsibility. 8ome cases are harder than others,
and the law intends that the jury shall discriminate in different
cases. There is no fixed measure of damages,.and no artificial
rule by which the damages in a given case can be computed.
The jury are not to take in consideration the pain suffered by
the deceased, or the wounded feelings of surviving relatives, and
no damages are to be given by way of punishment.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

In this case the next of kin are the parties who were interested
in the life of the deceased. They were interested in the further
accumulations which he might have added to his estate, and
which might. hereafter descend to them.
The jury have a right, in estimating the amount of pecuniary
injury, to take into consideration all the circumstanees attending the death of Barron-the relations between him and his next
of kin, the amount of his property, the character of his business,
and the prospectivevincrease in wealth likely to accrue to a man
of his age with the business and means which he had. There
is a possibility in the chances of business that Barron's estate
might have decreased rather than increased, and this possibility
the jury may consider. The jury also have a right to take into
consideration the contingency that he might have married, And
his property descended in another channel.
And there may be other circumstances which might affect the
question of pecuniary loss, which it is difficult for the court to
particularize, but which will occur to you. The intention of
the statute was to give a compensation. for the pecuniary loss
which the widow (if any) or the next of kin might sustain by
the death of the party; and the jury are to determine, as men
of experience and observation, from the proof what that loss is.
In order to render a verdict for the plaintiff it is necessary
that the defendant should have been in fault.
The Illinois Central Railroad Company engaged to carry Judge
Barron safely from Hyde Park to Chicago, and as a common
carrier was bound to the most exact care and diligence required
for the safety of passengers .....
It is not a question which train was mostly in fault, but whether
the train of the defendant was in fault at all. It is for the jury
to say from the evidence whether the employees of the Illinois
Central road used the necessary degree of care and diligence in
the management of their train on that morning ....
We understand that the road on which the accident occurred
belonged to the defendants, and by its charter was under its
sole control to carry passengers and property, and if it allowed
the trains of the Michigan Central to run over it under the
management of the agents of the Michigan Central, it should be
done in such a manner as not to interfere with the safety of the
passengers of the defendant, and as to such passengers the fault

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY

t7.

]BARRON.

95

Argument for the railroad company.

of the Michigan Central road in running their train is the fault
of the defendant.
Verdict and judgment for $3750 damages. The case was
now here on exceptions to the charge as made, and on the
refusal to charge as requested.

Ir. Pracy,for the railroadcompany, plaintiff in error:
1. The court erred in declining to charge as requested in
the first proposition.
The intention of the act was to conpensate the widow and
next of kin of the person killed for Ihe pecuniary injury to
them occasioned by his death. If the death caused them no
pecyniary injury, the act gave them no damages, for the compensation for that was to measure the damages.
The statute is in form like one passed in New. York,* and
frequently considered in the courts of that State. The decisions of these courts are pertinent then to this case. In

Dickins v. New York Central Railroad,t it was held, that a
husband as administrator of his wife, whgse death was caused
by the act of another, and who had no children, and no near
relatives-but sisters, could not recover for damages resulting
by her death to him, and only for. pecuniary damages sustained by her next of kin.
So in Tilley v. fludson Bkver Bailroad,j that in an action
by a husband, as administrator of a wife whose deathivas
caused by the act of another, leaving children, the possibility that the children would have received an estate increased by their mother's earnings, could not be considered.

So in Oldfield v. New York and Hlarlenm Railroad Company,§
where a little girl of six years old was killed, leaving a
mother, the court charged in the words of the statute, and by
explanation told the jury that the damages were to be a sum
which, in their opinion, would be the pecuniary loss of the
next of kin.
Revised Statutes of New 'York, vol. iii, p. 589,
. 24 Id. 471.
t 23 New York, 158.

4.
8 E. D. Smith, 103.

96

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

In the case at bar, there was no one of the next of kin
who could properly be said to sustain any pecuniary loss by
the testator's death. None of his next of kin had any pecunialy interest in his life. No one stood in the relation to
him that the mother did to her child, and whose 'duty it
would be to furnish it care and nurture. No one in the relation that the minor child did to its mother, who could re,eive the benefit of its services until it became of age. His
father was not dependent upon himn,-not entitled to his
future earnings, nor were his brothers and sisters, and, indeed, instead of a pecuniary loss to them his death gave
them, or one of them, an estate of $35,000, which otherwise he could not then receive, and which he might never
receive
In Pennsylvania, under a statute not unlike the one now
before us, the Supreme Court of 'that State seems to have
held* that the pecuniary damages to be assessed in the ease*
of the loss of a minor son of the plaintiff's was to be estimated by the value of his services during his minority, together with the actual expenses of his care while suffering
from the injury before his death, and the funeral expenses
incurred.
And in a easet where a widow brought bee action for the
death of her husband, the same court held that although
the jury might be charged that " much is left, and much
always must be left to your sound discretion," it was because
this was but an addition to the instructioi that "what the
plaintiff had lost in a pecuniary point of view by the death
of 'her husband, namely, a reasonable support and subsistence foe herself," was the rule to be observed.
The courts of Illinois have also examined the statute.
In Chicago and Rook Island Railroad Company v. Morris,T
there was no averment in the declaration of any facts showing a pecuniary loss. The court held, that as no other loss
* Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. Kelly, 81 Pennsylvania State,
378; Same Plaintiffv. Zebe et ux., 33 Id. 318.
t Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. Ogier, 35 Pennsylvania State, 72.
t 26 Illinois, 400.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

97

Argument for the railroad company.

could be shown, the declaration should have alleged facts
showing it.
2. The court erred in refusing to charge- as requested by
the second prayer, that the plaintiff could recover only
nominal damages until he had shown that the'decedent's
net of kin had some legal interest in his life, and that, by
his death, they had been deprived of something to which
they had a legal right.
A "ecompenstion with reference to the pecuniary injuries
resulting from such death," is within the discretion of the
jury; but not a compensation for the affliction the death
occasions, nor for the possibility that the deceased might, if
he had lived, make.presents to the relatives. If it had been
shown that his next of kin were paupers, and he bound to
support them, and that he could, and would do so from his
earnings, and that his death deprived them of this support,
"and had this been pleaded, the jury would have had something
upon which to exercise their judgment in estimating a pecuniary loss. But no such thing was either alleged or shown.
No one of his next of kin was alleged or shown to be dependent upon him.
As a matter of fact, it is plain that had the defendant
lived and added to his property and then died unmarried,
the whole would have gone to the father, not to the other
relatives.
8. The court erred in refusing to charge, that so far as-the
next of kin of the testator inherited from him a greater
pecuniary benefit than the maximum which they could recover, they caunot have sustained pecuniary injury by his
death.
The ground upon which the recovery must be had, is
pecuniary injury to the next of kin, occasioned by his death.
If his death necessarily and directly involved no pecun.iary
loss, and it did directly put money in their pocket, or that
of any of them, they, or such of them, have sustained no pecuniary injury.
4. The court erred in refusing to charge as requested iu
VOL. V.

7

98

RAILROAD COMPANY

v. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the railroad company.

regard to the cause of the death and its effect in discharging
the Illinois Central road..
If the jury believed that the death was occasioned solely
by the carelessness or default of the company in charge of
the express train,-the Michigan Company,-and that the
defendants had no control over them, the very fact would
preclude the idea of any negligence or carelessness of the
defendant. Yet, by the refusal to charge as asked, the jury
were left, notwithstanding such their belief, to find a verdict
against the defendant for a, negligence of Which its servants
were not guilty.
If the Michigan Company's servants in charge of the express train were guilty of the entire fault of causing the collision, their negligence was a gross one, and the Illinois
Central Company's servants were innocent of any actual or
permissive wrong; they violated no duty to the deceased.
The 6ompany was not a warrantor of the lives of passengers
against negligent or wilful acts wrongfully committed by
another.
As to the charge actually given.
It was directly calculated to withdraw the provisions of
the act from the jury's consideration, and to leave them
at liberty to assess damages arbitrarily, in the nature of
punitive damages for the killing of the deceased, and irrespectively of any pecuniary injury to his next of kin.
It in effect instructed the jury that the father and brothers
and sisters of an unmarried man of thirty-five years of ageone whose death, supposing him to reach the ordinary age
of "threescore years and ten," was still thirt'-five years
distant-would be his next of kin at his death; a presumption strongly against probabilities; and that they thus had
a pecuniary interest in his further accumulations, and his
prospective increase of wealth.
It invited the jury into a speculation as to whether he
would or would not increase his means, would or would not
marry, and would or would not have and leave issue; in
stxort, into a speculation resting on uncertainties compounded
with uncertainties, and probabilities not depending upon

Dee. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BARRON.
Argument for the executor.

any facts before them; and about which neither sense nor
science could form any conclusion whatever. How far less
precise and scientific i3 this than the view of the courts of
New York, which have held that a supposed interest in the
savings which a mother might by her exertions make to the
increase of her husband's estate, was not an element in
assessing the pecuniary irjuries sustained by her children in
her death!
Mr. Lincoln Clark, contra,for the executor:
By the law as it was before the statute was passed, injury
to the person might be compensated in damages if it was
less than fatal: if death resulted, no action for damages
would lie. There was a remedy for the lesser evil, but none
for the greater. The object of the statute clearly was to
declare that a provision of law so unreasonable 'should no
longer exist. The statute embraces no new idea or tleory
in reference to damages. It only extends the right of action
for the purpose of securing compensation for the same kind
of injuries, and imposing penalties for the same character
of*negligence; and to this all the provisions of the statute
look.
Opposite counsel plant themselves upon this provision in
the second section, "And in every such action the jury may
give such damages as they shall deem a fair and just compensation with reference to the pecuniaryinjuries resultingfrom
such death to the wife and next of kin, &c." But if the action
were at common law for injuries to the person, would not
the rule as to damages be precisely the same ? If it would,
then the statute introduces no new rule, and damages would
be given in the case of death upon the same principle, and
for the same reasons as in case of injuries to the person only.
But it has never been pretended in any case, nor is it in
this, that had the deceased been injured to any extent short
of his life, pecuniary damages might not have been adjudged
to him, though lie was a man of wealth and leisure, and not
dependent even upon the improvement of his estate for the
necessaries or the luxuries of life. It would not be said that

100

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct

Ai'g,ument for the executor.

he had suffered no pecuniary injury because of no such
dependence.
The statute gives damages to the next of kin. What damages? Damages of the same kind and for the same reasons
as i \ case of injury to the person. Damages not dependent
upon the necessities of the individual, but damages made up
of all the facts and circumstances which would naturally
tend to prevent the accumulation of his estate, and deprive
the individual of the means of doing better for his next of
kin than otherwise he might do, and in presumption of law
would do.
Opposite counsel took below the distinction, in the charges
which they asked the court to give, between substantial and
nominal damages. The language of the act is, "in every
shch case the jury may give such damages as they shall
deem a fair and just compensation." Is the court to presume that mere nominal damages would, in any case, be a
fair and just compensation, in so far that it might, as a matter of law, instruct the jury that they could give no more ?
If not, then the jury are the judges as to what a fair and
just compensation is.
Can it be inferred from the language of the act that the
case is destitute of merits because the next of kin have no
legal claim for support? If this were so, then the children
of a father killed could not have the benefit of the action if
they had passed their majority and his guardianship and
tutelage; and especially if they had separate estates, and
were better able to support themselves than the father was
to support them; for, in such a case, there would be no legal
claim for support. The next of kin is a comprehensive term,
and must often include those who have no claim for support, and stand in distant relationship to the individual.
We thus infer that a recovery is not founded upon the idea
of a legal claim for support, by showing that the action given
by the statute is of the same nature as that given by the comnmon law for mere injuries to the person, and is to be governed
by the same reasons; that pecuniary injuries result in both
cases in kind, though they may not in degree. And whether

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

101

Argument for the executor.

the damages recoverable go to those who have a.claim for
support makes no difference. Those having no claim may
be as palpably injured as those who have.
But the statute upon which the action is based has received
a construction by the Supreme Court of Illinois. In the Cily
of Chicago v. Major,* the death was of a child four years of
age, and the objection to a recovery was substantially the
same as in this case, to wit, that the verdict of the jury
must be for the present pecuniary loss, and that as the child
left no widow nor noxt of kin who were directly injured by
the death, in a pecuniary point of view, therefore no recovery could be had. But such was not the view taken by
the court.
In a New York case, Oldfield v. The New York and Harlem
-RailroadComrany,t the death was of a girl twelve years of
age. The court refused to grant a nonsuit on the ground
that there was no special damage.
The proposition of the plaintiffs in error, that "no recovery can be had in this case because the plaintiffs, or those
for whom the action is brought, gain more by the death
than the maximum of damages which can be recovered,"
assumes what is untrue in fact. None of the beneficiaries
of this action received anything by the death, except the
father, who was the plaintiff and sole legatee.
But can it be supposed that the legislature designed to
place the right to recover damages upon so uncertain a condition? A man is killed in a railroad collision; he has property; he leaves children; by his will he leaves all his property to others. According to the argument, the children may
have damages as for pecuniary injuries, because by the death
they suffer pecuniary injury; that is to say, the man killed
has, by the death, been deprived of the power to direct that
his property should go to his children; but if he dies without a will, so that his property goes in the regular course of
descent, or if having made a will, he bequeaths his property
* 18 Illinois, 349.

f 3 E. D. Smith, 103.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON

[
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the executor.

to his children, no recovery can be had, because by the death
they have been benefited beyond the maximum of damages
recoverable; that is to say, if the property descending or
bequeathed is greater than that maximum. To this result
the argument leads.
But the right to recover catn be placed upon no such fortuitous circumstances. The presumption of law is, that a
man's next of kin are benefited by his life; that he can do
better for them alive than dead; that his gains will accrue
to them. These may bein greater or less deoree; they may
be none at all. However these things may be, the facts will
speak for themselves, and produce their proper effects on
the trial.
In Pyn v. The Great Northern Railway Company,* the plaintiff's husband was killed, lie was in the enjoyment of a life
estate in land yielding an annual ipcome of £3864. Upon
his death the estate passed under ti e entail to the eldest son,
subject to a charge of £1000 per annuni to the plaintiff (the
wife), and £800 a year to the children. The deceased also
left personal property to the amount of £3890, which was
divided between the widow and the children. Now it may
be that the widow and children derived a greater benefit by
the death than they would by the life of the husband and
the father. By the death they came to the enjoyment of ascertained amounts ; but the jury gave damages in the sum
of £13,000, and that, too, although the deceased was of no
profession or business, and had no income or property other
than that already mentioned. Upon what principle were
such damages awarded? Clearly upon the principle that had
the father lived he might have used his income for the benefit of his family, though it would have been in his power
not to do it. Had he lived and thus prevented his property from going to the entail, he could have done better for
his family than was done in the event of his death. And
this is the presumption in every case, subject to the fullest
inquiry as to the facts. Had Barron lived, his next of kin
* 2 American Law Register, N. S. 234.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY v. BARRON.

103

Argument for the executor.

might have realized by his life more than they did by his
death; and this, no doubt, was the view which the jury took
of the case under the instructions of the court. Was it
wrong?
The rule of the statute which gives damages for the value
of the life lost, may be regarded, as loose an&indefinite. But
the rule as to other injuries is equhlly loose and indefinite,
as in the case of defamation of character, assault and battery
of the person, breach of promise of marriage contract; and
yet juries find no difficulty in awarding damages, and no
doubt the injury and damages will be found tp vary according to the dignity, character, and position of the person.
InIThe Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. McCloskey,* the
court say:
"1The damages must necessarily be measured by the value of
the life lost, and not by the pecuniary loss which the representatives shall have thereby sustained. The sanction of the law
lies in the duty of compensation for the value of the life dest-royed, measured according to its own merits, and not according to the necessities of the kindred."
The Pennsylvania statute does not essentially differ from
that of Illinois.
In Dickins v. The New York Central Railroad Company,t the
court say:
"An action can be maintained by the personal representatives
of a deceased person, whose death has been wrongfully caused
by the defendant, though the deceased left no husband or wife
or next of'kin surviving who could ever have any legal claim
upon such person if living, for services or support."
As to the proposition of the plaintiff in error, that "no
recovery can be had if the colliding train was the most or
chiefly to blame," little need be said.
The contract on the part of the deceased was with the Illinois Central road, the defendant below. They owed him
* 23 Pennsylvania State, 630.

t28 Barbour, 41.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the duty of safe conduct; they had a direct responsibility to
him, and in this case no doubt exclusive; and that responsibility they cannot avoid 'by leasing their road, or granting a
license to another corporation to use it. It has been repeatedly decided that a railroad corporation can not avoid
their responsibilities by leasing their road.*
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
There are only two questions raised in the course of the
trial in the court below that it is material to notice.
It was insisted on the trial, in behalf of the defendants,
that the express train was wholly in fault, and responsible
for the injury. But the court ruled, that, considering the
facts to be as claimed, still the defendants were liable; and
this presents the first question in the case.
It will be observed the defendants owned the road upon
which they were running the car in which the deceased
was a passenger at the time of the collision, and that the
ti'ain in fault was running on the same road with their permission.
The question is not whether the Michigan Company is
responsible, but whether the defendants, by giving to that
company the privilege of using the road, have thereby, in
the given case, relieved themselves from responsibility? The
question has been settled, and we think rightly, in the
courts of Illinois holding the owner of the road liable.f
The same principle has been affirmed in 6ther States.1
The second question is, as to the proper measure of damages..
The only direction on this subject in the statute is, that
the jury may give such damages as they shall deem a fair
Chicago & Rock Island Railway Co. v. Whipple, 22 Illinois, 105; Ohio
& Mississippi Railroad Co. v. Dunbar, 20 Id. 623.
- The Chicago and Saint Paul Railroad Co. v. McCarthy, 20 Illinois,
385; Ohio, &c., Railroad Co. v. Dunbar, Id. 623; Chicago and Rock Island
Railroad Co. v. Whipple, 22 Id. 105.
1 Nelson v. The Vermont, &c., Railroad Co., 26 Vermont, 717; McElroy

v. Nash',ia &c., Railroad Co., 4 Cushing, 400.

Dec. 1866.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

105

Opinion of the court.

and just compensation, regard being had to the pecuniary
injuries resulting from the death to the wife or next of kin,
not to exceed five thousand dollars.
The first section gives the action against the company for
the wrongful actif death happens, in cases where, if the
deceased had survived, a suit might have been maintained
by him. The second restricts the damages in respect both
to the principles which are to govern the jury, and the
amount. They are confined to the pecuniary injuries resulting to the wife and next of kin, whereas if the deceased
had survived, a wider range of inquiry would have been admitted. It would have embraced personal suffering as well
as pecuniary loss, and there would have been no fixed limitation as to the amount.
The damages in these cases, whether the suit is in the
name of the injured party, or, in case of his death, under
the statute, by the legal representative, must depend very
much on the good sense and sound judgment of the jury
upon all the facts and circumstances of the particular case.
If the suit is brought by the party, there can be no fixed
measure of compensation for the pain and anguish of body
and mind, nor for the loss of time and care in business, or
the permanent ihjury to health and body. So when the suit
is brought by the representative, the pecuniary injury resulting from the death to the next of kin is equally uncertain and indefinite. If the deceased had lived, they may.not
have been benefited, and if not, then no pecuniary injury
could have resulted to them from his death. But the statute
in respect to this measure of damages seems to have been
enacted upon the idea that, as a general fact, the personal
assets of the deceased would take the direction given them
by the law, and hence the amount recovered is to be distributed to the wife and next of kin in the proportion provided
for in the distribution of personal property left by a person
dying intestate. If the person injured had survived and recovered, he would have added so much to his personal estate,
which the law, on his death, if intestate, would have passed
to his wife and next of kin; in case of his death by the in-

RAILROAD COMPANY V. BARRON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

jury the equivalent is given by a suit ini the name of his
representative.
There is difficulty in either case in getting at the pecuniary loss with precision or accuracy, more difficulty in the
latter than in the former, but differing only in degree, and
in both cases the result must be left to turn mainly upon the
sound sense and deliberate judgment of the jury.
It has been suggested frequently in cases under these acts,
for they are found in several of the States, and the suggestion is very much urged in this case, that the widow and
next of kin are not entitled to recover any daniages unless
it be shown they had a legal claim on the deceased, if he had
survived, for support. The two sections of the act taken
together clearly negative any such construction, as a suit is
given against the wrong-doer in every case by the representative for the benefit of the widow and next of kin, where,
if death had not ensued, the injured party could have maintained the suit. The only relation mentioned by the statute
to the deceased essential to the maintenance of this suit, is
that of widow or next of kin; to say, they must have a legal
claim on him for support, would be an interpolation in the
statute changing the fair: import of its terms, and hence not
warranted. This construction, we believe, has beon rejected
by every court before which the question has been presented.
These eases have frequently been before the courts of Illinois, and the exposition of the act given by the learned
judge in the present case is substantially in conformity with
those cases.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

"*City of Chicago v. Major, 18 Illinois, 349; Chicago and Rock Island
Railroad v. Morris, 26 Id. 400; 21 Id. 606?; Pennsylvania Railroad Company v. McCloskey, 23 Pennsylvania State, 526; Oldfileld v. New York and
farlem Railroad Company, 3 E. D. Smith, 103.

