720

CITY OF PHILADdLPHIA

V.

THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

We find no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED.

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE

COLLECTOR.

1. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court in a case between citizens of the
same State, under the internal revenue laws of July 1, 1862, hnd March
8, 1863, removed thereto from a State court under the act of March 2,
1833 (the Force Bill), and before the passage of the internal revenue act
of June 30, 1864, is saved by the sixty-eighth section of the internal
revenue act of July 18, 1866, if the justice of said Circuit Court is of
opinion that the case would be removable from the State court to the Circuit Court under the sixty-seventh section of the said act of July 13,
1866.
2. Where a case, removed from a State court to a Circuit Court under the
act of 1833, above mentioned, would be clearly removable under the provisions of the act of 1866, directing such Circuit Court to remand removed cases, unless the circuit judge should be of opinion that the samne,
if pending in the State court, would be removable under a provision
which the last-named act made, the fact that the case was in the Circuit
Court when the new act passed, and that it never was remandea, is a
fact from which it may be inferred, as a conclusion of law, that it was
the opinion of the circuit judge that the case was one that ought tp be
retained.
8. Where an article (as illuminating gas) which, under the internal revenue
acts, is taxable when made and "sold," but is not taxable when made by
the party "for his own use," is made by trustees appointed by the party
using it, under obligatory and fixed arrangements with such party's creditors, at an establishment of which the party using the article has apparently the ultimate ownership, but which, till certain debts due by him,
and contracted in order to build and enlarge the establishment, are paid,
is held and managed exclusively by the trustees, under an arrangement
that the party using may have the article at a certain price, and that all
clear profits shall be set aside as a sinking fund for the payment of the
principal due the creditors,-such article, when furnished to the debtor
at a price fixed, is "sold," and taxabl6; though apparently the sale is
chiefly for the purpose of providing, in the manner agreed on, a sinking fund to pay the debts of the party using it.
t. The trustees of the -Philadelphia Gas Works, by the law and ordinances
creating and constituting them, and by reason of the several loans created for the support and management of the said gas works, hold such
a relation to the private consumer, the loanholder, and the city of Philadelphia, that all illuminating gas manufactured by the said trustees, and

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF PItLADELPHIA v. Tim COLLECTOR.

721

Statement of the case.

furnished by them to the city, to be used in her public lamps,-is liable
to, and chargeable with, the internal revenue duty imposed by the act
of July 1, 1862, and the supplement thereto of March 3, 1863.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for Eastern Pennsylvania; the
case being thus:
The Judiciary Act of 1789 limits the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts, so far as determined by citizenship, to "suits
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State,"
An act of 1833,* "to provide further for the collection
of
duties on imports," extended the jurisdiction to cases arising
under " the revenue laws of the United States," where other
provision had not been made. And it authorized any person injured, in person or property, on account of any act
done "under any law of the United States for the protection
of the revenue or the collection of duties on imports," to maintain sult in the Circuit Court. It also allowed any person
sued in a State court, on account of any act done "under
the revenue laws of the United States," to remove the cause
by a mode which the act itself set forth, into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
With the passage of the internal revenue laws, made
necessary by the late rebellion, it was doubted by some persons whether this act of,1833 extended to cases under the
new enactments. And the internal revenue act of 1864,t
by its fiftieth section extended in general words "the provisions" of the act of 1833 to cases arising under the internal revenue acts.
By an internal revenue act of 1866,1 however (ยง 67),
Congress made provision for removing cases from State
courts to the Circuit Court, authorizing such removal in a
way which it particularized, "6n any case, civil or criminal,
where suit or prosecution shall be commenced in any court
of any State against any officer of the United States, . . . or
against any person acting under or by authority of any such
* 4 Stat. at Large, 682.

VOL. V.

t 18 Id. 241.

46

4 14 1d. 172.

722

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

officer, on account of any act done under color of his
office," &c.
And by the sixty-eighth section, immediately following,
it " repealed" the fiftieth section of the act of 1864, with,
however, this proviso:
"Provided, That any case which may have been removed from
the courts of any State under.s -d fiftieth section to the courts of
the United States, shall be remanded to the State court from which
it was so removed, with all the records relating to such cases.
unless the justice of the Circuit Court of the United States in
which such suit or prosecution is pending shall be of opinion
that said case would be removable from the court of the State
to the Circuit Court under and by virtue of the provisions of
this act."
With the act of 1833 in force, but before the passage of
any of the others, the city of Philadelphia, in October, 1863,
,sued in a State court the collector of internal revenue of the
.collection district to which the city belongs, for a return of
oertain internal revenue taxes paid under protest; the city
corporation (constructively) and the collector being citizens
.of the same State.
The collector assuming that the case was one arising
under the revenue laws of the United States," and that it
was, therefore, within the act of 1833, removed it by the
mode prescribed in that act of 1833 into the Circuit Court.
This was in November, 1863. And the Circuit Court having been, apparently, of the same opinion as to the extent
of operati'on of the act of 1833, tried the case twice, the first
trial beginning in December, 1863; therefore, before the
internal revenue act of 1864, having its fiftieth section, was
passed. A new trial was had in October, 1864, and fihal
judgment then given.
The suit thus brought in the State court and removed, was
to recover internal revenue taxes accrued under the internal
reve ine acts of 1862 and 1863, demanded by the collector and
paid under protest by the " Trustees of the Philadelphia Gas

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

723

Statement of the case.

Works," for gas used by the city for its public lamps. Supposing jurisdiction to have existed in the Circuit Court, the
question was whether this gas had been "made and sold" by
the. trustees to the city, or whether it had been made by the
city through its appointees, the trustees, for itself. If the former, it was taxable under the provisions of the revenue acts,
which taxed all gas "made and sold.;" if the latter, it came
within an exception which exempted articles made by any
person "not for sale, but for his or their own use," and was
not taxable.
The history of "the Philadelphia Gas Works," where the
gas Was made, and their relation to the city of Philadelphia,
was this:
They originated in a city ordinance passed in 1835, and
which seems to have contemplated the temporary establishment of a quasi corporation which might yet be, or be ultimately, a department of the city government. The works
were to be and were constructed by means of money subscribed by private individuals, for which they received certificates of stock entitling them to the profits arising from the
manufacture and sale of gas. The ordinance provided that
the works should be under the exclusive management of
trustees elected by the councils of the rity; also that the public lamps should be supplied at half the price paid by private
consumers. It provided, above all, that the city corporation should have a right to take possessi6n on certain conditions. The original capital was limited to $100,000. The
works, with the increase of the city, not being found large
enough and needing to be extended, subsequent ordinances
were passed authorizing loans, and providing that the motey
should be borrowed by the city, on the requisition of the
trustees, and that obligations of the city should be issued to
the loanholders. A sinking fund; as security for the loanholders, was created out of the proceeds of sale of gas before any profits were distributable to the stockholders, The
interest on the certificates of loan was declared payable at
the office of the gas works. In 1841, under the original
or4'ineCe Of 1835, reserving to the city the right to take

724

CITY OF PHILADELPIHIA V. TIE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Vt

Statement of the case.

possession, the city did take possession in their own right,
and the stock was converted into a "gas loan," in which the
city was the debtor, and whose interest was, in fact, paid
at the city treasury. But the works were continued under
the superintendence of the existing trustees; the only change
in the relation of the trustees being that they thenceforth
were trustees for the city and loan holders, instead of fbr
the stockholders. Several ordinances were subsequently
passed, authorizing further loans. They stipulated that, for
the further security of the loanholders, the works should be
controlled and managed by a hoard of trustees, elected and
constituted as theretofore, who should have the whole control of the works, and of all the funds belonging to them;
and that the trustees should pay no part of the funds, nor
any of the profits of the works, into the city treasury, but
should apply the same in payment of the interest and principal of the loans; a stipulation whose primary design was
declared by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania-on a controversy between some of the holders of the gas loans and
the city corporation, which last wished to take into its own
control the property, held by the trustees under the various
city ordinances, out of their hands, and to elect other trustees, in addition to thd number provided by the original ordinance of 1835*-to have been "to keep the pledge entirely
out of the hards of the borrowers (the city), and prevent the
funds from being intermingled with other property of the
city, and thus exposed to the hazards of expenditure for
other objects than those to which it was exclusively designated."
The gas used by the city for its public lamps was manufactured at these works; and under diffbrent ordinances,
specifically providing for the price payable for gas supplied
to the public lamps, a process of payment was regularly
gone through with at stated intervals, though practically
the matter was, in a good degree, a provision by the city
* Western Saving Fund Society v. The City of Philadelphia, 31 Penn.

sylvania State, 178.

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

725

Argument for the collector.

for the support of works whose income paid the interest on,
and provided a sinking fund for final redemption of its own
"gas loans," held by various creditors.
The court below was of opinion that the gas was "made
and sold," and that it was taxable.
Mr. Ashton, for the collector:
1. The case of Insurance Companyv. Ritchie,* lately adjudged,
decides that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, in original
suits between citizens of the same State, in internal revenue
cases, conferred by the 50th section of the act of June 30thb,
1864, was taken away by the 68th section of the act of July
13th, 1866, and that all original suits, pending at the passage
of this last act, fell. This 68th section, however, saves (under
certain conditions) "any case which may have been removed from the courts of any State, under said 50th section."
It saves none, removed otherwise. But the present suit was
not so removed. It was removed undei the act of 1833,
which was assumed by'the collector to extend to such cases.
In fact it was removed, and once tried, months before the act
having that 50th section was passed. Unless, therefore, the
act of 1833 extends to cases of internal revenue, must not
this case fall? The matter is suggested.
2. As to the merits: If all the loans, fbr the payment of
which the trustees appointed by the city, primarily hold and
manage the gas works, were paid off, no new ones being
contracted, the works, and all right over their' products,
would become the city's, and the tax might not be chargeable; but at present there is a clear trust for the holders of
the gas loan; and the city has to elect trustees who will
manage them in subordination to their obligations to those
creditors. The gas is "sold" for their benefit, and by the
arrangements between the city and its creditors, it must be
so sold. The decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, when the city wished to act as owners, concludes this
case.
* Supra, p. 541.

726

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the city.

Messrs. Lynd (City Solicitor), W. L. Hirst, and Richard
Ludlow, contra:
1. The question of jurisdiction seems nQt to be much
pressed. If the court below was right in taking jurisdiction
under the act of 1833, as it did, the case is plain. Neither
the act of 1864 nor that of 1866 has anything to do with the
matter.
2. As respects the main question: Taxing statutes, confessed.ly, are to be strictly construed. Hence the manufacturers
or producers of gas, subject to taxation, must be private individuals, or private corporations, who pursue the business
of making gas as a source of profit.
Nowhere in the law is it provided that a city, or town, or
state, engaged in the manufacture of taxable articles, shall
pay a tax; for no city or state is known to be in the exercise of any but municipal functions-functions exercised for
the public good and not for pecuniary aggrandizement. The
gas useA by the city of Philadelphia is made under the directibn of and by an especial department of the municipal goveinment. The trustees of her gas works are chosen at stated
periods by the city councils, the legislative department of
the city. The trustees are mere managers; elected by the
city; having no title whatever. Really and practically the
gas works are a city affhir. The city owes for them and
owns them. -There are no stockholders, and the "payment"
relied on to make the .case "a sale" and to take it out of
that of a person manufacturing for himself is simply a payment by one hand into another and back. The city pays
the gas works and the gas works hand the payment back to
the city to pay interest on its gas debt.
The internal revenue acts were made for the purpose of
taxing the revenues and the incomes of the country. Nowhere does it appear that susidies were to be levied. upon
states, or towns, or that any business but that which was
clearing a profit should pay a tax. These facts are evident
from the whole language and import of the acts themselves,
sufficiently known to all. Land itself was not to be taxed,
but its products in kind and specie. The manufacturer was

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA

v. Tii, COLLECTOR.

727

Opinion of the court.

not to pay for the amount of his stock, nor for his accumulation of raw material, but for the results of his skill and
labor from which he gets wealth.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiffs sued the defendant as the collector of internal
revenue in the second collection district in the State of Pennsylvania, in an action of assumpsit fbr money had and received, to recover back the sum of twenty-six thousand eight
hundred and seventy-five dollars and fifty-seven cents, which
they had previously paid to him under protest, and which
he, as such collector, had demanded of them as for internal
revenue duties. Record shows that the duties were assessed
for the last four months of the year 1862, and for the first
six months of the succeeding year, upon illuminating gas,
manufactured and furnished by the trustees of the Philadelphia Gas Works, and which was consumed under the direction of the proper authorities of the city in her public lamps
during that period. Assessment of the duties in question
was made under the seventy-fifth section of the act of the
first of July, 1862, which provides in effect that upon illuninating gas, made wholly or in part of coal, or of any other
material, and produced and sold, or manufactured, or made
and sold or removed for consumption, or for delivery to
others than agents of the manufacturers or producers, there
shall be levied and collected a duty of five cents per one
thousand cubic feet. Section thirty-three of the act of the
third of March, 1863, enacts that those provisions shall also
be applied to the producers of the several articles mentioned
in that section as subject to duty as well as the manufacture rs. *
Suit was commenced in this case in the State court, but
on motion of the defendant, the same was removed, on the
twenty-fifth day of November, 1863, into the Circuit Court
of the United States for that district, where the verdict and
*

12 Stat. at Large, 462-729.

728

CITY OF PHIILADELPHIA V. TiE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

judgment were for the defendant. Exceptions were duly
taken by the plaintiffs, and they sued out the present writ
of error. Defendant objects to the jurisdiction of the court,
and insists that the writ of error should be dismissed, and as
that objection presents a preliminary question it will first be
examined.
1. Jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts was extended by the
second section of the act of the second of March, 1883, to all
cases in law or equity arising under the revenue laws where
other provisions had not been previously made by law. Section three of that act also provided that any officer of the
United States, or other person who should be sued in any
State court for or on account of any act done under the revenue laws, or under color thereof, or for or on account of
any right, authority, or title, set up or claimed by such officer or other person under such law, might, in the manner
therein prescribed, remove the cause into the Circuit Court,
and that the cause so removed should be proceeded in as
one originally commenced in that court.*
Those provisions were extended to cases arising under the
laws for the collection of internal duties by the fifth section
of the act of the thirtieth of June, 184, and the same section enacted in effect that all persons duly authorized to assess, receive, or collect such duties or taxes under such laws,
should be entitled to all the exemptions, immunities, benefits, rights, and privileges therein enumerated or confcrred.t
Undoubtedly the original act was passed for the protection
of officers of the revenue, and persons acting under them,
charged by law with the collection of import duties, and the
first proviso in the sixty-seventh section of the act of the
thirtieth of July, 1866, expressly enacts that the original act
shall not be so construed as to apply to cases "arising under,
any of the internal revenue acts, nor to any case in which
the validity or interpretation of those acts shall be in issue.".1
Effect of that proviso is to limit the scope of the original
act, without repealing it, to cases arising under the acts of
4 Stat, at Larg-

32.

t 18 Id. 241.,

$ 14 Id. 172,

67.

Dec. 1866.]

CITY

PHILADELPHIA V. TIHE COLLECTOR.

OF

729

Opinion of the court.

Congress providing for the collection of import duties, and
to confine its operation to the purposes for which it was
originally passed, but the proviso does not touch the provision as re-enacted in the subsequent act, entitled An act to
provide ways and means for the support of the government,
and for other purposes. Had legislation stopped there the
subsequent provision would have remained in fPll force, but
the sixty-eighth section of the act which in its sixty-seventh
section limits and restrains the original provision in the act
of the'second of March, 1833, repeals the fiftieth section of
the act of the thirtieth of June, 1864, altogether, subject to
the proviso contained in the same repealing section.*
Substance of the last-named proviso is that any case removed from the court of a State into the Circuit Court under former regulations upon the subject, shall be remanded,
unless the justice of the Circuit Court shall be of opinion
that the same if pending in the State court would be removable under the new provision contained in the sixty-seventh
section of the same act which in its sixty-eighth section repeals the fiftieth section of the prior law.t
2. Section sixty-seven, in the body of the section preceding
the proviso limiting and restraining the operations of the
original act to cases arising under the laws for the levy and
collection of import duties, makes provision for the removal
of any'case, civil or criminal, commenced against any officer
appointed or acting under the law to provide internal revenue, or against any pergon acting under such an officer, on
account of any act done in virtue of his office, &c., and prescribes the mode of proceeding to effect such a removal of
the case.t
Present case is one which was removed into the Circuit
Court under the original act, now limited and restrained in
its operation to cases arising under the laws for the collection of import duties, but it is undeniably one which, if
pending in the State court, would be removable under the
new provision, and inasmuch as it was pending in the Cir14 Stat. at Large, 172,

68.

$ Id. 171,

67.

730

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup

Ct

Opinion of the court.

cuit Court when the last-named proviso was passed, and ha5
never been remanded by the justice of the Circuit Court, if
must be understood as a conclusion of law that it was his
opinion that it ought to be -retained in the Circuit Court.
Want of jurisdiction, therefore, is not shown, although the
parties, plaintiffs and defendant, are citizens of the same
State.
3. Cases arising under the internal revenue laws, as now
modified, if commenced in a State court, against an officer
appointed or acting under those laws, or against persons acting under such an officer, may be removed on petition of the
defendant into the Circuit Court for the district, and the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over such controversies, when
all the prescribed conditions for the removal concur in the
case, is clear beyond doubt, irrespective of the citizenship
of the parties.
Although the point was not made in this case, it seems
proper to remark that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
has often been denied in this class of cases, because the party
aggrieved may appeal to the commissioner for redress, and
because he may also pursue his remedy by petition to Congress or present it in the Court of Claims. Suffice it to say,
withoutentering much into the argument, that such a theory
finds no substantial support in any act of Congress upon the
subject or in any decided case. On the contrary, the several
acts of Congress for the assessment and collection of internal
duties contain many provisions wholly inconsistent with any
such theory, and which, when considered together, afford an
entirely satisfactory basis for the opposite conclusion.
Collectors are appointed by the President, and they were
made responsible by the fifth section of the act of the first
of May, 1862, both to the United States and individuals, as
the case might be, for all moneys collected by their deputies,
and for every omission of duty.*
Collections were required by the twenty-third section of
the act to be completed within six months, and collectors
* 12 Stat. at Large, 434.

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OP PHILADELPH[A V. THE COLLEOCTY

. 731'

Opinion of the court.

were required to render their final account and pay the sums
collected into the treasury within that period. Argument ig
that inasmuch as collectors were required by that act to pay
all moneys collected into the treasury, they cannot be held:
liable to refund any portion of such collections; but the
same requirement is made of the commissioner, and yet he
is authorized to remit, refund, and pay back all duties erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, and to pay all j udgments or sums of money recovered in any court against any
collector or deputy collector for any duties or licenses paid
under protest.*
4. Necessary implication from those provisions is, that
actions may be maintained against collectors of the internal
revenue to recover back duties illegally or erroneously assessed. Authority is also conferred upon the commissioner,
by the forty-fourth section of the act of the thirtieth of June,
1864, not only to pay back all duties erroneously or illegally assessed or collected, but also all duties that appear to
be excessive in amount, and to repay to collectors or deputy
collectors the full amount of such sums of money as shall or
may be recovered against them in any court fbr any internal duties or licenses collected by them, with costs and expenses of suit.t
Same section also confers authority upon the commissioner to repay to assessors, assistant assessors, collectors,
deputy collectors, and inspectors, all damages and costs recovered in any suit against them by reason of any act done in
the performance of their official duties. Evidently, those
clauses of the section contemplate diffbrent grievances and
different remedies for their redress as known at common
law and in the practice of the courts.1
5. Appropriate remedy to recover back money paid under
protest on account of duties or taxes erroneously or illegally
assessed, is an action of assumpsit for money had and received. Where the party voluntarily pays the money, he is
without remedy; but if he pays it by compulsion of law, or
*]2

Stat. at Large, 725, 729.

t 13 Id. 239.

See also 14 Id. 111.
S

732

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

[SUp. Ct

Opinion of the court.

uder protest, or with notice that he intends to bring suit to
test the validity of the claim, he may recover it back, if the
assessment was erroneous or illegal, in an action of assumpsit for money had and received.*
When a party, knowing his rights, voluntarily pays duties
or taxes illegally or erroneously assessed, the law will not
afford him redress for the injury; but when the duties or
taxes are illegally demanded, and he pays the same under
protest, or gives notice to the collector that he intends to
bring a suit against him to test the validity of the claim, the
collector may be compelled to refund the amount illegally
exacted.t
Decisions to the same effect were made in the parent
country at a very early period, and like decisions are to be
found in the judicial reports of all, or nearly all, of the svveral States. But the third section of the act of the third of
March, 1865, requires collectors to pay daily into the treasury the gross amount of all duties, taxes, and revenue received or collected in virtue of the internal revenue acts,
without any abatement or deduction on account of salary,
compensation, fees, costs, charges, expenses, or claims of any
description whatever.n
Defendant contends that this provision has the same legal
effect in respect to suits against the collectors of the internal
revenue as the second section of the act of the third of
March, 1839, had in respect to suits against collectors of
customs.ยง
6. None of the internal revenue acts, however, contemplate that collectors shall reimburse themselves for the
amount of any judgment recovered against them on account
of duties illegally or erroneously assessed and paid under
protest. Direction in those acts is, without exception, that
all such judgments shall be paid by the commissioner,
including, by the latter acts, costs and expenses of suit.
Elliott v. Swartwout, 10 Peters, 150.

t Bend v. Hoyt, 13 Id. 267.
1 13 Stat. at Large, 487.
j 5 Stat. at Large, 848; Cary et al. v. Curtis, 3 Howard, 236; Curtis v
Fiedler, 2 Black, 461.

Dec. 1866.] CITY

OF PIHILADELPHTIAV. THE COLLEC0IDR.

733

Opinion of the court.

Clear implication, of the several provisions is, that a judgment against the collector in such a case is in the nature ot
a recovery against the United States, and that the amount
recovered is regarded as a proper charge against the revenue collected from that source. Evidently, therefore, it is
not material in this inquiry whether the collectors of the internal revenue are required to account daily or monthly, or
whether they are required to pay into the treasury the gross
or only the net amount of collections, so long as this provision authorizing the commissioner to pay such judgments,
costs, and expenses of suit, remains in full force.
Direct repeal is not pretended, and it is equally clear that
the enactment requiring collectors to pay the gross amounts
collected into the treasury is in no respect repugnant to the
provision directing the commissioner to pay all judgments
recovered against such collectors for duties illegally or erroneously assessed and paid under protest. I.iconsistent provisions are repenled, but all others remain in full force.*
Section nineteen of the act of the thirteenth of July, 1866,
does not apply in this case, as it was not passed until long
after this suit was commenced.t
Strong support to the conclusion that the Circuit Courts
have jurisdiction in cases like the present is derived from
the several provisions authorizing the removal of such cases
fr-om the State courts into the Circuit Courts for trial. Parties compelled to pay an illegal assessment ought to have a
convenient remedy to redress the injury, and inasmuch as it
is enacted by Congress that no suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of taxes shall be maintained in any court, it is believed that there is no more appropriate or effectual remedy known to the common law
than the action of assumpsit for money had and received, as
in this case.t
7. All the gas consumed in the public lamps of the corporation plaintiffs, is manufactured at the Philadelphia Gas
13 Stat. at Large, 486, 16.
$ Act March 2, 1867, 10.

t 14 Id. 162.

734

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA V. THE COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Works, and payment therefor is made by the corporation to
the trustees of the works, as shown by the only witness examined in the case. Origin of the gas works is shown in
the ordinance of 'the twenty-first of March, 1835, and it appears that the works were constructed and put in operation
by means of money subscribed by private individuals, for
which they received certificates of stock, signed by the
mayor of the city, and countersigned by the treasurer, entitling the holder to the proper share of the profits arising
from the manufacture and sale of gas. Original subscriptions amounted to one hundred thousand dollars, and the
provision whs, that the works should be under the exclusive
control and management of twelve trustees, to be elected by
the councils of the city. Purpose was to supply the city and
the citizens with gas; but the stipulation was, that the public lamps of the city should be supplied at one-half the price
paid by private consumers. Five hundred dollars is annially
paid by the trustees to the city as rent of the lot for the location and use of the gas works. New subscriptions and loans
were subsequently authorized to increase the capital stock for
the extension of the wo.rks.
Moneys arising from the manufacture and sale of the gas
were required by the original ordinance to be paid into the
city treasury, but that part of the ordinance was afterwards
repealed, which gave the entire control to the trustees.
Whenever the municipality deemed it expedient they might
take possession of the gas works and convert the stock into
a loan, redeemable in tventy years. They did take possession of the works, and loan certificates, on the third day of
June, 1841, were issued to the stockholders, but the stipulation that the works should be controlled and managed by
the trustees elected, as before, was renewed in the subsequent ordinance, passed in the same month. Clear profits
were required, under this last arrangement, to be set apart
as a sinking fund to be invested in the loans to the association, and the trustees were charged with the duty of carrying the regulation into effect. Throughout, from the organization of the association to the commencement of the suit,

Dec. 1866.]

CITY OF PHILADELPHIA

v.

T.HE COLLECTOR.

735

Opinion of the court.

the works have been controlled and managed by the trustees, and the interest of the association, which constructed
the works and put them in operation, has never been divested or become -vested in the corporation.
Plaintiffs authorized the mayor of the city, on the sixteenth day of February, 1856, to contract with the trustees
for the lighting, extinguishing, cleansing, and repairs of the
public lamps of the city, for the term of three years, at a
stipulated sum for each lamp, and made a sufficient appropriation to carry the contract into effect; and the evidence
showed that the works were, throughout the period for
which the duties were ,assessed, in the exclusive possession
of the trustees. Testimony also showed that the city paid
monthly for the gas consumed in her public lamps throughout; that entire period. They sometimes paid a fixed sum
*foreach lamp and sometimes one-half the rate paid by private consumers.
Prayers, for instruction were presented by both parties,
but the presiding justice rejected them all; and instructed
the jury that the plaintiffs were not entitled.to recover, and
that their verdict should be for'the defendant.
8. Buried as the original transaction is in subsequent ordinances and amendments thereto, still it is believed that
there is no great difficulty in ascertaining the true state of
the case so far as it respects the present controversy. Trustees elected by the councils of the city superintended the
construction of the works, but the subscribers to the capital
stock furnished the money employed in the enterprise, and
became and are the legal owners of the works. When loans
were subsequently made to enable the association to supply
gas to a larger portion of the citizens, the capital stock and
the number of shares were increased, but the control and
management remained unchanged. Debts contracted by
loans or otherwise became liens upon the works, and, in
some instances, the faith of the city as surety or guarantor
was pledged for the payment of the interest and ultimate
payment of the principal. Such liens did not change the
ownership of the capital stock of the association, nor did

736

CITY

OF PHILADELPHIA v.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the mere entry by the city for the purpose of laying the
foundation to issue the loan certificates, as the possession
was only temporary, and the control and management were,
by new stipulation, continued in the trustees constituted and
appointed in case of any vacancy, as provided in the original ordinance. Rent was paid, as before, to the city for the
lot leased for the location of the works and for the use of the
association, and the authorities continued, as before, to pay
monthly or otherwise, at stipulated prices, for the gas consumed in the public lamps.
Taking the facts as they appear in this record, it is clear that
the property of the association never became vested in the
city, and it is equally clear that it remained vested in the
association, subject to the liens created as security for the
loans and as indemnity to the city for her liabilities incur-ed
as surety or guarantor. Supreme Court of the State regarded the city as the borrower in the matter of the last
loan, and they held that the object of the stipulation. that
the works should continue to be controlled and managed by
a board of trustees, elected as before, was to keep the pledge
out of the hands of the borrower and prevent the fund from
being mingled with the funds of the city. Ruling of the
court that the works were h6ld by the city in pledge only,
and not in full property, is all which the present case requires this court to decide. They also held that the effect
of taking possession and the issuing of the certificates of
loans, was, that the trustees ceased to be trustees for the
stockholders and became the trustees of the city and the
loanholders.*
Suppose that to be so, still they held that the control and
management of the works continued in the trustees, and
that they were to be elected, as under the original ordinance. Rights of the stockholders could not be divested
without their consent, and the mere acceptance of certificates of loan in the place of certificates of shares in the capital stock, without more, would not operate to convey to the
* Saving Fund Co. v. City of Philadelphia, 7 Casey, 187.

D~ec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

737

Statement of the cases.

city their interests in the gas works. Conclusion is, that the
duties were properly assessed, and that there is no error in
the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE

KANSAS

INDIANS

1. The State of Kansas has no right to tax lands held in severalty by individual Indians of the Shawnee, Miami, and Wen tribestunder patents
issued to them by virtue of the treaties made with those tribes respectively in 1854, and in pursuance of the provisions of the 11th section of
the act of June 30th, 1859 (11 Stat. at Large, p. 431).
2. If the tribal organization of Indian bands is recognized by the political
department of the National government as existing ; that is to say, if
the National government makes treaties wiLh, and has its Indian agent
among them, paying annuities, and dealing otherwise with " head .men
in its behalf, the fact that the primitive habits and customs of the tribe,
when in a savage state, have been largely broken into by their intercourse with the whites,-in the midst of whom, by the advance of civilization, they have come to find themselves,-does not nuthorize a State
government to regard the tribal organization as gone, and the Indians as
citizens of the State where they are, and subject to its laws.
3. Rules of interpretation favorable to- the Indian tribes are to be adopted.
in construing our treaties with them. Hence, a provision in an Indian
treaty which exempts their lands from "levy, sale, and forfeiture," is
not, in the absence of expressions so to limit it, to be confined to levy
and sale under ordinary judicial proceedings only, but is to be extended
to levy and, sale by county officers also, for non-payment of taxes.

THESE wore three distinct cases involving, however, with
certain differences, essentially the same question ,argued on
the same day and by the same counsel.
The specific question was, whether the State of Kansas
had a right to tax lands in that State held in severalty by
individual Indians of the Shawnee, Wea, and Miami tribes,
under patents issued to them pursuant to certain; treaties of
the United States; the tribal organization of. these tribes
having to a certain extent, as was alleged, been broken in
upon by their intercourse with the whites, in the midst of
VOL. V.

47

