Dec. 1866.]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

307

Syllabus.

Redfield, Ch. J., said, in the case of lanonond v. Wilder,*
tLat there was no case in which the judgment of a court of
record of general jurisdiction had been held void, unless for
a defect of jurisdiction.

Less uniformity exists in the re-

ported decisions upon the subject in the courts of New York,
but all those of recent date are to the same effect. Take,
for example, the case of Em bury v. Conner,t and it is clear
that the same doctrine is acknowledged and enfbrced. Indeed, the court, in effect, say that the rule is undeniable
that the judgment or decree of a court possessing competent
jurisdiction is final, not only as to the subject thereby determined, but as to every other matter which the parties
might have litigated in the cause, and which they might
have had decided.T Same rule prevails in the courts of New
Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, and in most of
the other States.ยง
For these reasons our conclusion is, that the fourth plea
of the defendant is bad upon general demurrer, and that
there is no error in the record. The judgment of the Circuit Court " j, therefbre,
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

GREEN

V. VAN BUSKIRK.

1. Where.personal property is seized and sold under an attachment, or other
writ, issuing from a court of the State where the property is, the question of the liability of the property to be sold under such writ, must be
determined by the law of that State, notwithstanding the domicil of all

the claimants to the property may be in another State.
2. In a suit in any other State growing out of such seizure and sale, the

effect of the proceedings by which it was sold, with title to the property,
must be determined by the law of the State where those proceedings
were had.

8. The refusal of the State court in which such suit may be tried, to give
23 Vermont, 346.

t 3 Comstock, 522.

: Dobson v. Pearce, 2 Kernan, 165.

Hollister v. Abbott, 11 Foster, 448; Rathbone v. Terry, 1 Rhode Island,
7; Topp v The Bank, 2 Swan, p. 188 ; Wall v. Wall, 28 Mississippi, 413.

808

GREEN V. VAN

BUSKIRK.

[Sup.

.t,

Statement of the case.

to the proceedings of the court, under which the property was sold, the
same effect in their operation upon the title, as they have by law and
usage in the State where they took place, constitutes a proper case for review in this court, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of New York.
The Constitution of the United States declares (Section 1,
Article IV) that fall faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of
every other State; and that Congress may by general laws
prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the effecl thereof.
Under the power here con ferred, Congress, by act of 1790,*
provides that records, authenticated in a way which it prescribes, shall "' have such faith and credit given to them in
every other court of the United States, as they have by law
or usage in the court from which they are taken."
With this provision of the Constitutioa and this law in
force, Bates being the owner of certain iron safes at Chicago,
in the State of Illinois, on the 3d day of November, 1857,
executed and delivered, in the State of New York, to Van
Buskirk and others, a chattel mortgage of them. On the
5th day of the same month Green caused to be levied on the
same safes a writ of attachment, sued by him out of the
proper court in Illinois, against th(- property of Bates. The
attachment suit proceeded to judgment, and the safes were
sold in satisfaction of Green's debt. Van Buskirk, Green,
and Bates, were all citizens of New York. Green's attachmen t was levied on the safes as the property of Bates, befbre
the possession was delivered to Van Buskirk, and before the
mortgage from Bates to him was recorded, and before notice
of its existence.
Van Buskirk afterwards sued Green, in the New York
courts, for the value of the safes thus sold under his attachment, and Green pleaded the proceeding in the court of Illinois in bar of the action. In this suit thus brought by him
May 26'

1 Stat. at Large, 122.

Dec. 1866.]

GREEN v. VAN BusKIRK.

809

Argument for the motion to dismiss.

in the New York courts, Van Buskirk obtained judgment,
and the judgment was affirmed in the highest court of the
State of New York. From this affirmance Green took a
writ of error to this court, assuming the case to fall within
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, which gives
such writ in any case wherein is drawn in question a clause
of the Constitution of the United States, and the decision is
against the title, right, or privilege specially set up. His
assumption was that the faith and credit which the judicial
proceedings in the courts of the State of Illinois had by law
and usage in that State, were denied to then by the decision
of the courts of New York, and that in such denial; those
courts decided against a, right claimed by him under the
above-mentioned Section 1, Article IV, of the Constitution,
and the act of Congress of May 26th, 1790, on the subject
of it.
Mr. Carlisle,for the defendant in error, now moved to dismiss the writ of error, because the record did not present any
question within the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act
relied on by the plaintiff in error.
The record of the case, it should be said, contained the
pleadings in the case, the facts which the court had found,
and their conclusions of' law on them. Among the latter,
the court decided "that by the law of the State of New York
the title to the property passed on the execution and delivery
of the instrument under the facts found in the case, and
overreached the subsequent attachment in the State of Illinois, and actual prior possession under it, at the suit of defendant, although he was a creditor, having a valid and fair
debt against Bates, and had no notice of the previous assignment and sale. And that the law of the State of New York
is to govern the transaction, and not the law of the State of
Illinois, where the property was situated."
Messrs. Carlisleand Gale, in support of the motion to dismiss:
The record neither shows that the construction of any
clause of the Constitution was drawn in question by the
plainti" in error, in the State court, nor that any right was

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. (it

Opinion of the court.

claimed under any such clause, nor that any decision was
made against any such right.
In fact the case did not admit of any constitutional question.
The defence set up in the State court was only that the
safes, at the time of the seizure and sale, belonged to Bates,
and that by such seizure and sale the plaintiff in error acquired Bates's title. The only issue thus formed was as to
the right of property and possession at the time of such seizure; and this was the only issue tried and determined.
Messrs. Turnbull and A. J. Parker,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The section of the Constitution discussed in this case, declares that "full faith and credit shall be given in each State
to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every
other State. And that Congress may, by general laws, pregcribe the mamer in which such acts, records and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof."
The act of 1790 was intended to be an exercise of the
power conferred upon Congress by this section. In the leading case of Mills v. Duryee,* this court held that the act in
question did declare the effect of such judiciaPrecords, and
that it should be the same in other States as that in which
the proceedings were had. In the case of Christmas v. Russell,t decided at the present term of the court, we have reaffirmed this doctrine, and have further declared that no State
can impair the effect thus to be given to judicial proceedings
in her sister State, by a statute of limitation intended to operate on demands which may have passed into judgment by
such proceedings, as though no such judgment had been
rendered.
The record before us contains the pleadings in the case,
the facts found by the court, and the conclusions of law arising thereon. And notwithstanding the inverted manner in
7 Cranch, 481.
t Supra, last preceding case, p. 290.

Dec. 1866.]

GREEN v. VAN BusKIRK.

811

Opinion of the court.

which the court has stated its legal conclusions, it seems
clear that it did pass upon the efibect of the judicial proceedings in Illinois upon the title of the property in contest. The
case is not varied by declaring that the mortgage made and
delivered in New York overreached the subsequent attachinent in Illinois. According to the view taken by that court,
Van Buskirk, the plaintiff, had title to the property under
the laws of New York by virtue of his mortgage, and the
-question to be decided was whether the proceedings in Illinois were paramount in their effect upon the title to the
New York mortgage.
It is said that Van Buskirk being no party to the proceedings in Illinois was not bound by them, but was at liberty
to assert his claim to the property in any forum that might
be open to him; and, strictly speaking, this is true. Ile was
not bound by way of estoppel, as he would have been if he
had appeared and submitted his claim, and contested the
proceedings in attachment. He has a right to set up any
title to the property which is superior to that conferred by
the attachment proceedings, and he has the further right to
show tiat the properly was not liable to the attachment-a right
from which he would have been barred if he had been a
party to that suit. And this question of the liability of the
property in controversy to that attachment is the question
which was raised by the suit in New York, and which was
there decided. That court said that this question must be
decided by the laws of the State of New York, because that
was the domicil of the owner at the time the conflicting
claims to the property originated.
We are of opinion that the question is to be decided by
the effect given by the laws of Illinois, where the property
was situated, to the proceedings in the courts of that State,
under which it was sold.
There is no little conflict of authority on the general question as to how far the transfer of personal property by assignment or sale, niade in the country of the domicil of the owner,
will be held to be valid in the courts of the country where
the property is situated, when these are in diffbrent sove-

812

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

reignties. The learned author of the Commentaries on the
Conflict of Laws, has discussed the subject with his usual
exhaustive research. And iA may be conceded that as a
question of comity, the weight of his authority is in favor
of the proposition that such transfers will generally be respected by the courts of the country where the property is
located, although the mode of transfer may be different from
that prescribed by the local law. The courts of Vermont
and Louisiana, which have given this question the fullest
consideration, have, however, either decided adversely to
this doctrine or essentially modified it.* Such also seems
to have been the view of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts.t
But after all, this is a mere principle of comity between
the courts, which must give way wren the statutes of the
country where property is situated, or the established policy
of its laws prescribe to its courts a different rule. The
learned commentator, already referred to, in speaking of the
law in Louisiana which gives paramount title to an attaching creditor over a transfer made in another State, which is
the domicil of the owner of the property, says: "No one
can seriously doubt that it is competent for any State to
adopt such a rule in its own legislation, since it has perfect
jurisdiction over all property, personal as well as real, within its territorial limits. Nor can such a rule, made for the
benefit of innocent purchasers and creditors, be deemed
justly open to the reproach of being founded in a narrow or
a selfish policy."I Again, he says: "Every nation, having
a right to dispose of all the property actually situated
within it, has (as has been often said) a right to protect
itself and its citizens against the inequalities of foreign laws,
which are injurious to their interests."
Chancellor Kent, in commenting on a kindred subject,
" Taylor v. Boardman, 25 Vermont, 589; Ward v. Morrison, Id. 593;
Emmerson v. Partridge, 27 Vermont, 8; Oliver v. Townes, 14 Martin's
Louisiana, 93; Norris v. Mumford, 4 Id. 20.
T nanfear v. Sumner, 17 Massachusetts, 110.
I Story on the Conflict of Laws, 390.

Dec. 1866.]

GREEN

V. VAN

BUsIm .

313

Opinion of tile court.

namely, the law of contracts, remarks :* "But, on thissubject
of conflicting laws, it may be generally observed that there
is a stubborn principle of jurisprudence that will often intervene and act with controlling efficacy. This principle is,
that where the lex loci contractus and the lex fori, as to conflicting rights acquired in each, come in direct collision, the
comity of nations must yield to the positive law of the
land."
In the case of Milne v. Moreton,t the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania says, that " every country has a right of regulating the transfer of all personal property within its territory; but when no positive regulation exists, the owner
transfers it at his pleasure."
The Louisiana court, in a leading case on this subject,
gives, in the following language, a clear statement of the
foundation of this principle
"The municipal laws of a
country have no force beyond its territorial limits, and when
another government permits these to be carried into effect
within her jurisdiction, she does so upon a principle of
comity. In doing so, care must be taken that no injury is
inflicted on her own citizens, otherwise justice would be
sacrificed to comity. . . . If a person sends his property
within a jurisdiction different from that where he resides,
he impliedly submits it to the rules and regulations in force
in the country where he places it."
Apart from the question of authority, let us look at some
of the consequences of the doctrine held by the court of New
York.
If the judgment rendered against the plaintiff in error is
well founded, then the sheriff who served the writ of attachment, the one who sold the property on execution, any person
holding it in custody pending, the attachment proceeding,
the purchaser at the sale, and all who have since exercised
control over it, are equally liable.
If the judgment in the State of Illinois, while it protects
all such persons against a suit in that State, is no protection
* 2 Comw qntaries, 699.

t- 6 Binney, 361,

.8-1,4

GREEN V. VAN

BusKIRK.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Nelson and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

anywhere else, it follows that in every case where personal
property has been seized under attachment, or execution
against a non-resident debtor, the officer whose duty it was
to seize it, and any other person having any of the relations
above described to the proceeding, may be sued in any othei
State, and subjected to heavy damages by reason of secret
transfers of which they could know nothing, and which were
of no force in the jurisdiction where the proceedings were
had, and where the property was located.
Another consequence is that the debtor of a non-resident
may be sued by garnishee process, or by foreign attachment
as it is sometimes called, and be compelled to pay the debt
to some one having a demand against his creditors; but if
he can be caught in some other State, he may be made to
pay the debt again to some person who had an assignment
of it, of which he was ignorant when he was attached.
The article of the Constitution, and the act of Congress
relied on by the plaintiff in error, if not expressly designed
for such cases as these, find in them occasions for their most
beneficent operation.
We do not here decide that the proceedings in the State
of Illinois have there the effect which plaintiff claims for
them; because that must remain to be decided after argument on the merits of the case. But we hold that the effect
which these proceedings have there, -by the law and usage
of that State, was a question necessarily decided by the New
York courts, and that it was decided against the claim set
up by plaintiff in error under the constitutional provision
and statute referred to, and that the case is therefore properly here for review.
MOTION TO DISMISS OVERRULED.

Mr. Justice NELSON, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
SWAYNE, dissenting.
I am unable to concur in the opinion that has just been
delivered. The litigation is one of the most common occurrence growing out of the business affairs of life. It presents

Dec. 1866.]

GREEN

V.

VAN BUSKIRK.

315

Opinion of Nelson and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

the case of a race of diligence among creditors after the
property of a failing debtor to get the first security for the
payment of their debts. There is no question here as to
the bona fides of the creditors. The simple point between
them is as to which party in the race acquired the better
title to the property. All the parties, debtor and creditors,
were citizens and residents of the State of New York.
The property was in Chicago, Illinois, consisting of iron
safes.
In the race of diligence, the defendants here and plaintiffs
below, Van Buskirk and others, obtained from Bates, the
debtor, on the 3d of November, an assignment of the prop
erty as security for their debt. It was executed at Troy,
New York. But, before the agent reached Chicago to take
actual possession, Tillinghast & Warren, the other creditors, on the 5th of' the month, two days after the assign
mert, instituted proceedings in a court in Illinois against
Bates, the debtor, and attached the safes, subsequently obtained a judgmient by default, and sold them on execution.
The present suit was instituted by Van Buskirk and
others against Tillinghast & Warren, the attaching creditors,
claiming title to the property under and by virtue of their
prior assignment. As the two classes of creditors were
equally honest, the only question, as we have said, would
seem to be which had obtained the better right to theil
debtor's property; and this appears to have been the view
taken by the judge and counsel in the court below.
The trial before a jury was waived, and the case was
heard befire the judge, who gives a statement of the facts.
He found the proceedings in the attachment as set forth.
The execution of the assignment, that it was executed in
good faith, and not fraudulent. He then states his conclusions of law-1. That the assignment was a legal and valid instrument,
and operated to transfer the property in the safes to the assignees.
2. That by the laws of New York the title thus acquirud
overreached the title by attaehmont, being prior in point of

816

GREEN

V.

VAN BUSKIRK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Nelson and Swayne, JJ , dissenting.

time, though the attaching creditors had no notice of the
sale or assignment; and3. That the laws of New York governed the case.
The defendants excepted to the rulings, and contended1. That the assignment was fraudulent and void on its
face, and conveyed no title to the plaintiffs against the attachment.
2. That the rights of the parties must be governed by the
law of the State of Illinois, and not'by the law of the State
of New York; and
3. That the plainitiffs ltve shown no ownership or right
of possession to the safes superior to that of the defendants.
A judgment was entered for the plaintiffs, which was
taken, on this bill of exceptions, to th'e higher courts ir. the
State, and was affirmed, it is now here under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act; and it is claimed that this
court has jurisdiction, on the ground that the court below
denied full fhith, credit, and effect to the Illinois judgment
in the attachment proceedings. It is only on this ground
that this attachment can be maintained. We have seen that
no such point was made on the trial or ruled by the court.
These proceedings were in evidence without objection either
as to regularity or effect. It was conceded that the attachment bounid the goods from the time it was levied. Certainly no greater effect could be given to it; that is, whatever interest Bates, the debtor, had in them at that time.
This effect was not disputed. But it was claimed, on the
other side, that they had a prior right to the property under
the assignment made two days before the levy.
Now, it must be admitted that, as between Bates and the
assignees, they became vested with the title; and as the attachment was subsequent, and would only reach the interest
of Bates, it wolild seem to follow that thle assignees had the
better title; and, if this were all of the case, there could not
be two opinions upon it; the title under the attachment must
,ail. But it is not all, for it is said that this prior assignment
was ineffectual to transfer the title to the property, and prevent the operation of the attachment, for the reason that it

Dec. 1866 ]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

Opinion of Nelson and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

was fraudulent against creditors, and, being so fraudulent;
the seizure under the attachment gave the better title.
The question, therefore, that arose in the case, and the
only question, was as to the validity or invalidity of this assignmnent. If valid, then the title of the safes passed out of
Bates to the assignees on the 3d November. If invalid, then
it remained in him quoad creditors till the 5th, when the attachment was levied. Now, this question was one simply of
law, and it turned upon this: whether the assignrment was to
be governed by the law of New York, where the instrument
was made, and in which State all the parties resided, and of
which they were citizens, or by the law of Illinois, the silus
of the property. In New York the immediate delivery of
the possession, as is said, is not essential to the validity of
the assignment; in the State of Illinois it is. The continu
anice in the possession by assignor or vendor after the transfer of the title is regarded in that State as evidence of fraud,
and renders the instrument inoperative as against execution
or attaching creditors.
The court below decided that the instrument was to be
governed by the law of the State of New York, where it was
made, and which was the donieil of the parties. Now,
whether the court erred or not in this decision is not the
question, for this court has no jurisdiction to determine that.,
The question here is, whether, in so deciding, the court denied full faith, credit, and effect to the judgment in Illinois.
In other words, did the court, in holding that the prior assignment was not fraudulent and void, but valid a.nd effectual to transfer the title, thereby discredit the Illinois judgment? The answer to the question, I think, is obvious.
These assignees were not parties to the judgment. It could
not bind them. They were free, therefore, to set up and insist upon this prior title to the property; and, if there was
nothing else in the case, it is clear the junior attachment
could not hold it. It became necessary, therefore, for the
attaching creditors to displace the assignment, and this they
attempted, by insisting that it was fraudulent and void, as
not having been accompanied by possession; and this they

818

DWYER v. DUNBAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

were obliged to establish before the attachment could take
effect.
The assignment being prior in time, in the absence of
fraud, actual or constructive, the title passed to the assignees, and was out of Bates, when the attachment was
levied. This is familiar law. The question in the case,
therefore, and the one litigated in the court below, was this
question of fraud, upon which the validity of the assignment
depended, and the finlding of which was necessary to give a
preference to the claim under the, attachment. This question
was not only consistent, with the full force and effect of the
attachment proceedings, but wholly independent of them.
I agree, if the attachment had been levied before the assignment, and the court had given effect to this instrument
over the levy, it might be said that full faith and credit had
not been given to it; but, being posterior, these proceedings
could not have the effect per se to displace the assignment
as against a stranger. Another element must first be shown,
namely, fraud or other defect in the instrument, to render it
inoperative.
My conclusion is, that the regularity of the attachment
proceedings was not called in question in the court below;
but, on the contrary, full force and credit were given tc
them, and the case should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

DwYER v.

DUNBAR.

1. A letter to a third personappended to a deposition and professing to give
an account of a particular transaction, but not sworn in the deposition
to have given a true account of it, is not admissible as part of the deposition or at all.
2. A deposition which, stating the contents of a particular letter, attempts to
prove that such a letter was sent from one party to another-the letter
itself not being produced, and no proof being given of its loss-is inadmissible.
3. A court is not bound to give instructions which are not called for by the
facts of the case . a.n' which, therefore, have no practical application

