Dec. 1866.]

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

87

Statement of the case.

The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is REand this case is remanded to that court with direc.
tions to enter an order
VERSED,

AFFIRMING THE ]DECREE OF THE DISTRICT COURT.

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE

COMPANY.

Where, in case of a collision, one of two parties injured institutes proceedings against the vessel in fault, and at his own expense prosecutes
his suit to condemnation of the vessel, or of the proceeds of her sale in

the registry, another party injured by the'same collision, who has contributed nothing to the litigation to establish the vessel's liability, but
has stood by during that contest, and taken no part in it, cannot share
in the proceeds of the sale of the vessel, until the claim of the first party
is satisfied in full.

Tnrs was a question involving the proper disposition of
the surplus proceeds of the sale of the schooner Harriet
Ross in the Admiralty Court of the Northern District of
Illinois.
The schooner had been libelled in that court for supplies
furnished, to the value of $72, and sold for about $5000.
While the surplus proceeds of this sale were still in the
registry, the Corn Exchange Insurance Company ifiled a lib(,"
against them. The libellant alleged that shortly befbre the
schooner was seized at Chicago by the process of the District Court, a collision had occurred on Lake Ontario, between her and the schooner Flora Watson; that the Flora
and her cargo were sunk by the collisioin; that this was
caused solely by the want of care and skill on the part of
the crew of the Harriet Ross; and that the libellant had
taken risls on the Flora and her cargo, which it had been
compelled to pay, to an amount exceeding $8000.
Bradley, owner of the Harriet Ross at the time of the collision, appeared 4s claimant of the proceeds of her sale, and
defended this suit. An answer was filed by him and testimony taken, and the matter litigated on a considerable body

88

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

of testimony between the Corn Exchange Company and
B1radley.
Some time after the Corn Exchange Company had filed
its libel against the proceeds of the sale, one Woodworth,
who was mortgagee of the Harriet Ross for a large sum
prior to the collision; and who, when she was sold, under
the decree, for $72 for supplies, had become the purchaser
of her, filed a similar libel, claiming as assignee of. the
Columbian Insurance Company, which had also paid a loss
upon a part of the cargo of the Flora Watson. This libel
was filed April 1, 1863, but no further proceeding 'washad
in regard to it until February 2, 1864, when the libellant
asked leave to amend his libel.

On the 14th April, 1864, still, however, before final decree in the matter, between Bradley and the Corn Exchange
Company, this same Woodworth filed another libel against
these same proceeds and remnants, claiming as assignee of
the Security Insurance Company, for similar loss paid on the
hull of the Flora.
In the meantime, though as mortgagee of the vessel, WoodWorth was entitled to these proceeds, unless the Harriet
Ross should prove to be liable for the sinking of the Flora,
he did nothing; deferring -action on his part until that matter
was litigated by Bradley, he former owner.
A decree, however, having been rendered in favor of the
Corn Exchange Company, in December, declaring the proceeds of the Ross liable, Woodworth then proceeded witi:
his libels.
The District Court was of opinion that be was not entitled
to be paid the claims which he held as assignee of the Columbian and Security Companies until the Corn Exchange Company had been paid the full amount of its claim; and the
Circuit Court was of the same opinion. The matter was
now here on appeal.
Mr. Hibbard,for the appellant:
Woodworth is entitled to have his claims paid out of the
proceeds in the registry, although the libel of the Cqn

Dec. 1866.]

WOODWORTH V. INSURANCE COMPANY.

89

Opinion of the court.

Exchange Company was first filed, as his libel was filed befbre any decree of any kind was made in the other case,.*
Iad, Woodworth, indeed,'delayed filing the libel until after
decree in the other case, the result might be different.t But
that is not the case, and an error would be made if the rule
of that case were applied, as a suit in admiralty is against
all the world, and as'a decree binds all the world.
"'Mr.Rae, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The litigation to establish the liability of the Ross was
troublesome and expensive to the Corn Exchange Company.
Mr. Woodworth did not, in any manner, aid, or offer to aid
in it. His interest was against the liability which the company sought to establish; for, if the Ross was declared not
liable, he received these proceeds ,and remnants as mortgagee of that vessel. But, after permitting his own libel to
sleep during this struggle, he attempts, When it is over, to
revive that libel, and claims to share in the fruits of a victory
won without his aid, and against his wishes. The District
and Circuit Courts both thought he was not entitled to do
this, so long as the Corn Exchange Company remained unpaid.' In this view we concur.t
Our remarks are meant to apply to the libel filed April 1,
1863. But all that we have said in reference to that libel
applies with additional force to the one filed 14th April,
1864, arising from the longer delay in asserting the claim.
DECREES AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

Cobb v. 'Howard, 8 Blatchford, 624.
t The Steamboat America, 2 Western Law Monthly, 27); The Desde.
mona, 1 Swabey, 158.
See The Saracen, 6, Moore P. C. 56; The Clara, I Swabey, 1.

