Dec. 1866.]

THE SIR

WILLIAM PEEL.

517

Syllabus.

with William Chase, and had equal knowledge with him of

the whole transaction.
The foregoing views dispose of this case, and it is unnecessary to refer in detail to the charge of the Circuit Court,
because it was in conformity to them.
The instructions asked by the insurance company were

properly refused. A portion of them were right in the abstract, -butwould have misled the jury, there being no evidence in the case applicable to them.

The rest were incon-

sistent with the law of the case as given in this opinion.
The judgment of the Circuit C(iurt is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.
1. Regularly, in cases of prize, no evidence is admissible on the first hearing, except that which comes from the ship, -either in the papers or the
testimony of persons found on board.
2. If upon this evidence the case is not sufficiently clear to warrant condemnation or restitution, opportunity is given by the court, either of
its own accord or upon motion and proper grounds shown, to introduce
additional evidence under an order for further proof.
3. If, preparatory to the first hearing, testimony was taken of persons not
in pny way connected with the ship, such evidence is properly excluded,
and the hearing takes place on the proper proofs.
4. If a ship or cargo is enemy property, or either is otherwise liable to condemnation, the circumstance that the vessel at the time of capture was
in neutral waters, would not, by itself, avail the claimants in a prize
court. It might constitute a ground of claim by the neulral power,
whose tetritories had suffered trespass, for apology or indemnity. But
neither an enemy, nor a neutral acting the part of an enemy, can demand restitution of captured property on.the sole ground of capture in
neutral waters.
5. Where several witnesses stated'facts which tended to prove that a vessel
was in the employment of an enemy government; and that part, at
least, of her return cargo was in fact enemy property; while the statements of others made it probable that the vessel was in truth what she
professed to be, a merchant steamer, belonging to neutrals, and nothing

518

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
more; that her outward cargo was consigned in good faith by neutral
owners for lawful sale; that the return cargo was purchased by neutrals,
and on neutral account, with the proceeds of the cargo or other money;
the court directed restitution, without costs or expenses to either party
as against the other.
APPEAL from the decree of the District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, respecting the steamship Sir
William Peel and cargo, which had been captured September
11, 1863, at the mouth of the Rio Grande, on the Mexican
side, as it seemed, thereof, by the United States war vessel
Seminole, during the late rebellion, and libelled in the said
court for prize of war.
A claim to the vessel was put in by Corry & Laycock, of
Manchester, England; and for the cargo, by Henry & Co., of
the same place.
On the examination in preparatorio,the only persons on
board the ship who were examined were the master, mate,
and one seaman. From these, the charter-party on board,
and a survey of the vessel, it appeared that the vessel had
been sold 24th April, 1863, by certain persons, British subjects, who had bought her a week before, to Corry & Laycock;. that the vessel (one of 1500 tons burden) had been
built in 1855 as a war vessel for the Portuguese government, and at the time of the sale had been employed in the
British transport service; that her marine engines were six
feet below the water line; that three days after the sale, i.e.,
on the 27th April, the new purchasers chartered her to
Duranty & Co., "for the conveyance of lawful merchandise
between Liverpool and Mexico and any other lawful ports;
the vessel not to attempt to break any blockade. No injurious cargoes to be shipped as ordered by the charterers;" that Henry
& Co. had shipped upon her a gener-dl cargo; gambler,
sumac, boots in cases, bar, wrought, and hoop iron, baled
goods, and a number of axes; that the vessel began to unlade and relade at the same time. When captured she had
on board her a, keg (25 lbs.) and a flask of gunpowder, 72
cannon cartridges, 48 rifle cartridges, 24 blue lights, 16 rockets,
47 muskets ready for action, 4 boarding pistols, 11 toma-

Dee. 1866.]

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

519

Statement of the case.

hawks for boarding, 46 boarding cutlasses, and several ofther
military accoutrements placed in the companion-way or in
a room amidships; also among the dunnage, partly hidden,
a lot of solid round shot, and a quantity of grape-shot loose,
and between decks two casks of iron rings used for artillery
harness. These articles, it was testified by one or more of
the persons above mentioned, had been on the ship when ini
the transport service, and had followed her as she passed to
the new owners. The captain testified that there was " no
other warlike material aboard; that when the vessel was
loaded at Liverpool everythii g like contraband had been
excluded; and that Corry & Laycock owned the ship, and
Henry & Co. the cargo; that all the owners were Englishmen, and had always lived at lome ; that the voyage was
from Liverpool to Matamoras and back; that the outward
cargo was to be delivered to Milmo & Co., a firm of Matamoras, for the benefit of Henry & Co."
It appeared also, from the testimonies just mentioned,
that the vessel cleared from Liverpool direct to Matamoras,
but had stopped, as the mate testified (the captain saying
nothing about this), at Jamaica to take in coal ; and that she
arrived at the mouth of the Rio Grande, the dividing river
between Mexico and the United States, June 24, 1863, and
anchored well on the Mexican side; that she began to unlade
her outward cargo and to take a return cargo of cotton at
the same time; the outward cargo being discharged in
lighters and taken by steam from thence to Matamoras, about
thirty miles front the mouth of the river; the return cargo
of cotton being brought down in lighters and so put on the
Sir William Peel; and that, about 960 bales being on board,
the vessel was captured. That the ship's papers had been
given to her consignees at Matamoras, and were therefore
not on board, the vessel not being yet fully laden or ready
to return.
In addition to tnis testimony of the captain, mate, and seaman, the testimony of two other persons, loyal citizens of
the United States, one resident in Brownsville, a place in the
State of Texas, and then in possession of the Confederacy;

TiE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the other a inae of a mnerchant vessel of New York, then at
anchor near the Peel, was taken, in preparatorio,along with
that of the witnesses from the ship. The testimony of these
witnesses went to prove that the rebel authorities or rebel
citizens were interested in the vessel and the cargo both outward and return.*
On the case coming to hearing, the court, on motion of
counsel of the captors, excluded the testimony of such of the
witnesses as were not found on board the captured vessel,
but subsequently gave leave to both parties to take further
proofs. Further testimony, including that of one of the
persons whose evidence had been excluded, as taken in preparalorio,was accordingly taken on both sides. It was contradictory.
On tile one hand it was testified that the consignees, Milmo & Co., of Matamoras, had the general reputation of being agents of the Rebel Confederacy; that they had a branch
house in Brownsville, nearly opposite, in Texas, and were
engaged in receiving cargoes from Europe which they disposed of to the military authorities of the Confederacy, receiving and lading, in return, cotton which the Confederacy
had seized, and over which it exercised the right of property.
One witness of the captors said:
"I crossed over (from Texas to 3Mexico) between five and six
hundred bales, Confederate cotton, that was to go on to the Sir
W. Peel, but I cannot swear that it went on board her." . . "This
cotton had been turndd over by a Confederate States agent to
Milmo & Co., for account of the Confederate government ...
Milmo & Co. hurried me up, as they were anxious to ship it on
the Sir W. Peel." "I shipped the cotton even during nights
and on Sundays." "I was fully confident at the time that this
cotton was shipped for the Peel, and had no doubt of it whatever."
Another witness of the captors, resident for many years
in Brownsville and its vicinity, testified:
* For the suspicious character of all the trade between neutrals and Matamoras, see the statement of the case in The Peterhoff, sapra, p. 30, and
the chart, su a, p. 1 "'3.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.
Statement of the case.

"It was generally known in Matamoras that the Peel-was at
the mouth of the Rio Grande. This public notoriety was as to
her size; second, as to the cargo she had and third, as to the
disposition to be made of that vessel after ",aving the port of
Matamoras. 11er size was unusual for a N ,,cl in those waters;
her cargo, comprising arms and munitions of war. It was the
general rumor that she was to receive her cargo of cotton, go to
Havana and Nassau, and there discharge her cargo,,and then
become a privateer. I very often met with Texan and rebel of'
ficers. I remember two with whom I had conversations with
regard to the Peel. The adjutant, Dr. Riley, at the time of the
seizure of cotton by the Confederacy, told me, when I inquired
of him the cause of this impressment of cotton, that certain vessels had arrived from England belonging to parties with whom
he had contracts, and tbey found it necessary to impress cotton
if they were to receive these cargoes; accordingly the cotton
was impressed, in order that they could receive these cargoes.
"The Sir William Peel was spoken of in connection with these
cargoes in a conversation with J. K. Spear, quartermaster's clerk
in Brownsville, in reference to the amount of arms the people
of Western Texas had. lie stated that they received all the
arms they desired from vessels at the mouth of the Rio Grande,
and that for a week previous he had been engaged in crossing
arms for the quartermaster. I inquired of him where he had
the arms from, whether from the Mexican shore or direct from
the Gulf. lie answered he got them in both ways, direct from
vessels and from the other side, the Mexican shore. At the same
time he stated that a particular friend of his was interested in
the Sir William Peel, and that he had been receiving goods from
the Sir William Peel."
On the other hand, the testimony of one of the partners
of the firm of Milmo & Co. was as follows:
"The vessel belonged and still belongs to Messrs. Corry & Laycock, merchants, living in Manchester, England, and British
subjects.
"The cargo on board the vessel when captured, was and is the
bond fide property of Henry & Co., residing in Manchester, British subjects, purchased by us in this port for them ; the cargo
landed here belonged to the same parties. I derive this knowl-

TnE SIR

WILLIAM PEEL.

[Slip. Ct,

Argument for the claimants.

edge friom the consignment, and correspondence relative to the
consignment of the said cargo to us, by the said Hfenry & Co.
Their ownership was absolute and exclusive of all other interest.
" We had full instructions to invest the entire proceeds of tho
inward cargo in cotton, and to fill up the Sir William Peel for
Lierpool. If the proceeds did not furnish cotton enough, then
to take any freight offering for that port, sufficient to load the
vessel at the ruling rate of' freight. We accordingly had ready
for the Sir William Peel, three thousand bales of cotton, the
quantity thought to be necessary to fill her. Our instructions
also directed us to give her as quick despatch as possible for
Liverpool; and her cargo was engaged for, and the nine hundred and four bales on board were destined for that port."
The instructions referred to by this witness were not produced.
The further proofs showed that there was machinery
aboard, apparently not on the manifest, which had been
landed; bales of blankets, &c., &c., and also tended to show
that the vessel when first anchored, was in American water;
but that she had shifted her position to the spot at which she
was captured.
The testimony as a whole, satisfied the mind of the court
below that the vessel was captured when anchored south of
the line dividing the waters of the Rio Grande, and when,
therefore, she was in neutral waters. On that ground, it
decreed her restitution; but entertaining grave doubts as to
the object of her voyage, " so grave, indeed, that but for this
consideration that she was captured in neutral waters, the
court should have decreed her condemnation, it ordered
that the costs and charges conseqoent upon the capture, be
paid bY, the claimants, and that damages be refused." Both
parties appealed.
Messrs. Evarts and Marvin, with whom was Mr. A. F. Smith,
for the claimants:
I. The order made in the court below, granting to the
captors time to procure further evidence, was improper;
the captors not being entitled, under the circumstances of

Dec. ,1866.]

TiE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.
Argument for the claimants.

the case, to any such order; and, particularly, not entitled
to an order granting them leave to produce further proof in
the case generally, without specifying any particular matter
or point to which the further proof should be directed.
The evidence to acquit or condemn, with or without costs
or damages, must, in the first instance, come merely from
the ship taken, viz., the papers on board, and the examination, on oath, of the master and other principal officers. If
there do not appear from thence ground to condemn as
enemy's property, or contraband goods going to the enemy,
there must be an acquittal, unless from the aforesaid evidence the property shall appear so doubtful that it is reasonable to go into further proof. The claimant is often allowed
to supply further proof of his neutral ownership. The captor is rarely allowed to produce other proof than what is
furnished by the ship's papers, and the testimony of persons
on board ; and when he is allowed to produce further proof,
the order should confine such proof to a particular point or
matter,*
We assert, therefore, that the cause shall be heard and
decided in this court, as it ought to have been in the court
below, upon the claim itself, upon the papers found on board
the vessel, and the depositions of the master and persons on
board the vessel at the time of the captu-re; that is to say,
in this case, of the master, the mate, one seaman, and none
others.
On these testimonies it is impossible to find justification
even of seizure.
II. (Mr. Evarts.)-1. The claimants in this case are neutrals, subjects of Great Britain, and as such have .a persona
standi in the prize court to allege, according to the reguldr
procedure of the prize jurisdiction, whatever is pertinent and
significant on.the question "of lawful prize of war," under
the law of nations, as bearing upon the sentence or restitution or condemnation to be passed in the cause. Whenever,
* Letter of Sir William Scott and Sir John Nicholl to John Jay, 1 Robinson, 389; The Sarah, 8 Id. 380; The Haabet, 6 Id. 54; The George, 1.
Wheaton, 408.

524

TiE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

ESup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

therefbre, upon the contestation of these competent litigants,
any fact appears to the court exhibiting the capture to be
unlawful and void, that fact is to have its 'consequence in a
sentence of restitution, as necessarily as upon any other
form of presentation to or cognizance by the court of the
fact in question. It is impossible for the court to ignore such
fact, for it is alleged and proved by a litigant, to whom it is
open to allege and prove whatever is pertinent and is true,
bearing upon the question of prize or no prize. If the fact
thus before the court, under the rules of the law of nations,
requires the restitution of the prize, sentence of condemnation cannot pass without a violation of the law of nations.
2. The Sir William Peel with her cargo, when lying at
anchor within the neutral territory of Mexico, was captured,
in violation of the absolute immunity from belligerent visitation, search, or capture, enjoyed by neutral property within
neutral territory.
Upon this fact appearing, the capture is, by the law of
nations, illegal and void, carrying no i'ights to the captors,
involving the neutral property or its neutral owners in no
amenability to the prize jurisdiction on the merits, and exposing the captors to exemplary damages from the justice
of the prize court, and to personal punishment from their
belligerent government, which their misconduct has compromised with the neutral nation of the injured neutral
owners, not less than with the neutral nation whose territory
has been violated.
As between belligerents, the rights of war are substantially measured by their power. But as between neutrals,
the mere power of the belligerents carries no right whatever. The whole scope and measure of the rights of a belligerent towards neutrals, are determined by the conceded
or adjusted rules and limits of interference fixed by the law
of nations. These rules and limi'ts relate either to the theatre or region within which any rights whatever are conceded
to the belligerents towards neutrals, or to the restrictions
upon such rights within the theatreor region where, tc any degree,
sueh rights are conceded.

h

Dec. 1866.]

THE

525

SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

Argument for the claimants.

By the law of nations, within the region invaded by this
belligerent capture, the belligerent had no right whatever as towards or against neutral nations, nor the property of their
subjects. " The rights of war," says Mr. Wheaton, " can be
exercised only within the territory of the belligerent powers,
upon the high seas, or in a territory belonging to no one.
Hence it follows that hostilities cannot lawfully be exercised
within the territorial jurisdiction of the neutral state which
is the common friend of both parties."*
"The maritime territory of every state extends to the
ports, &c. The general usage of nations superadds to this
extent of territorial jurisdiction a distance of a marine league,
or as far as a cannon-shot will reach from the shore, along
all the coasts of the state. Within these limits, its rights
of property and territorial jurisdiction are absolute, and exclude those of any other nation."t
Every exercise of belligerent right, whether of visitation,
search, or capture, wiihin neutral territory, is absolutely unlawful, and every capture within such territory is absolutely
void. "' There is no exception to the rule, that every voluntary entrance into neutral territory, with hostile purposes, is
absolutely unlawftl."I " All captures made by the belligerent within the limits of this (neutral) jurisdiction are absolutely illegal and void."ยง '' When the fact is established,"
says Lord Stowell, "it overrules every other 'onsideration.
The capture is done away; the property must be restored,
notwithstanding it may actuially belong to the enemy; and
if. the captor should appear to have erred wilfully, and not
merely through ignorance, be would be subject to further
punishment."I1
The governiimenut of the United States, in the most definite and vigorous manner, and in the most public and authentic form, recognized these limitations of belligerent rights,
and enjoined upon our cruisers a strict observance of them,
Dana's Wheaton,
IId. 429.

426.

t Id. { 171.
Id. { 428.

The Vrow Anna Catharina, 5 Robinson, 18, cited and approved, Dana's
Wheaton,
429.

526

TuE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

under penalty of its displeasure. Upon a suggestion from
the British minister, that the cruiser Adirondack had pushed
the chase of a British vessel within the line of neutral maritime jurisdiction, the Secretary of State, under date of August 14, 1862, communicated to the Secretary of the Navy
the views of the government in the following terms:
"The President desires that you ascertain the truth of this
fact with as little delay as possible, since, if it be true, the commander of,the Adirondack has committed an inexcusable violation
of the law of nations, for which acknowledgment and reparation
ought to be promptly made. To guard against any such occurrence hereafter, the President desires that you at once give notice to all commanders of American vessels of war, that this
government adheres to, recognizes and insists upon the principle that the maritime jurisdiction of every nation covers a full
marine league from the coasts, and that acts of hostility or of
authority within a marine league of any foreign country, by any
naval officer of the United States, are strictly forbidden, and
will bring upon such officer the displeasure of his government."*
Indeed, the commission to cruisers, by the law of nations
and by the practice of our government, accepts and enforces these limitations on belligerent rights towards neutrals. Thus, the "instru c tio ' s" to private armed vessels,"
during the last war with Great Britain, enforced this limitaulon:
"The tenor of your commission, under the act of Congress, entitled ' An act concerning letters of marque, prizes, and prize
goods,' a copy of which is hereunto annexed, will be kept constantly in your view. The high seas, referred to in your commission, you will understand generally to refer to low water mark, but
with the exception of the space within oe league, or three miles,from
the shore of countries at peace both with Great Britain and with the
United States. You may, nevertheless, execute your commission
within that distance of the shore of a nation at war with Great
Lawrence's Wheaton, n. 215, p. 715.

Dec. 180}6.]

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.
Argument for the claimants.

Britain, and even upon the waters within the jurisdiction of
such nation, if permitted so to do."*

Accordingly, the Secretary of the Navy, in a communication to the Secretary of State, in answer to the remonstrance
of the British minister against the violation of the law of
nations by this and other captures in neutral waters, as made
known to the Secretary of the Navy by the Secretary of
State, expressly disclaims either the right or the purpose to
make such captures.

He said:

"I do not understand our government to claim the right of.
&c.,
nor the right, of capturing ships in Mexican waters, or in any
neutral waters."
"It is not improbable that the commanders of some of our
cruisers in the Gulf are not accurately informed of the extent
of the national rights herein referred to, und the department
will lose no time in placing the matter properly before them."t
3. As, then, the capture was made in the neutral waters
of Mexico, and upon that mere statement, was(a) In excess of the cruiser's commission from our government;
(b) In excess of exercise of belligerent rights, conceded
and submitted to by the neutral nation whose subjects are
the owners of the captured property;
As it had been(a) In terms "strictly forbidden" to our cruisers, and
brings upon the captors "the displeasure of the government ;"

(b)Pronounced bythe government "an inexcusable violation of the law of nations, for which acknowledgment and
reparation ought to be promptly made-"
The vessel and cargo are not lawful prize of war, and the
decree of restitution must be affirmed.
The prize court is but a judicial scrutiny or inquisition,
in behalf of the government, to ascertain and adjudicate
* Wheaton on Captures, Appendix, 841.

t Mr. Welles to Mr. Seward, Ma,:ch 5,1864, Diplomatic Correspondence,
p. 548.

Tim

SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

whether the res is subject to condemnation, as captured
within and in pursuance of the belligerent right of the government, conformably to the law of nations.
When the contrary appears, restitution follows, and in no
case can the treasury be enriched, and the captors rewarded,
by condemnation, when the capture is " an inexcusable violation of the law of nations, for which reparation must be
promptly made," and brings upon the captor " the displeasure of his government," provided this character of the capture is before the prize court.
4. It is submitted that no case can be found in which the
property of neutral claimants, admitted to allege and prove
the invalidity of a capture in neutral waters, has been condemned, The case of The Lilla (in Spragnc's.Deisions).*
in the District Court of Massachusetts, is no exception to
this proposition. The court held the fact not made out, and
the very brief observation of the court, that, if made out,
the objection was not open to the neutral claimant, was but
obiler.
5. The rule, supposed to be established, and the cases in
support of' it, that, though actual enemy property captured
in neutral waters is not good prize, and must be restored,
upon that fact appearing, yet the enemy owner cannot be
heard to make the objection, but only the neutral nation
whose waters have been entered, rest upon the reason that
no wrong can be done to an enemy, and no allegation can be
heard in his behalf. In other words, that in the ease of enemy's property, the fact of invalid capture cannot come before the prize court, except upon the representation of the
neutral nation. '' It is a technical rule of the prize courts,"
says Mr. Wheaton, ' to restore to the individual claimant,
in such a case, only on the application of the neutral government whose territory has been thus violated. This rule is
foundad upon the principle that the neutral state alone has
been injured by th3 capture, and that the hostile claimant has
no right to appear f)r the purpose of suggesting the invalidity of
the copture."t
Vol. ii, p.

f Dana's Wheaton,
t,

480.

Dee. 1866.]

THE SIR WILLIM

PEEL.

529

Argument for the claimants.

The Anne,* the only case in this court upon the question,
was of' an enumy ship, and so far from disturbing, confirms
the position contended for in behalf of neutral claimants.
" A capture made within neutral waters,' Laid Story, J., in
that case, " is, as between enemies, deemed, to all intents and
purposes, rightful." " The enemy has no rigts wtasoever ;
and if the neutral sovereign omits or declines to iterpose a
claim, the property is condemnable, jre bcl/i, to the captors."
This case is subject to the further criticism, as an authorit "
on this point, that the facts showv, and the court so hold, that
the protection of neutrality had been forfeited by the captured ship having commenced hostilities against the captor,
so that no claim by the neutral sovereign could have been
itnterposed.t
The Richmond,t was the case of a municipal forfeiture of
a vessel of the United States, the seizure having been made
in St. Mary's River, within the Spanish territory of Florida.
On such a case, it is obvious that the violation of Spanish
territory could never come in issue, judicially, nor could it
in anywise protect the vessel against the municipal justice
of its own government.
Upon an examination of the decisions of Sir William
Scott, it will be found that the cases in which condemnation
has passed, for want of the intervention of the neutral governmn-iit, have been upon actual enemy's property where no
claimant could appear.
II. If, however, this neutral property represented by
neutral claimants, shall be held amenable to the prize jurisdiction upon the merits, it is apparent that neither the vessel nor the cargo captured is good prize of war.
1. As to the VSSEL.
Its sincere and permanent neutral ownership is unquestionable, either upon the preparatory, or the further proofs.
The "general rumors" to the contrary come to nothing in
the face of the positive testimony.
It had violated, or attempted to violate no blockade.
8'Wheaton, 485.
VOL.

V.

- Id. 447-8.
84

1 9 Cranch, 102

530

Tim, SIR. WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct

Argumen~t for the claimants.

Matamoras could n-ot be, and Brown.sville was not, block.
aded.*
The Navy Department expressly excluded
Brownsville
from the blockade of Texas. "The whole coast of Texas,
except such part as may be necessary for access to the port of
Brownsville, is to be regarded as under blockade."t
If its inward cargo included any contraband, it had all
been landed before the capture, and so the ship was f'ee
from interference on that gronud.
But if contraband had been found on board, the ship would
not have )een involved in condemnation therefrom. There
was no connection between the ship or its owners and thb
cargo or its owners, except that of carriers under the charterparty.
But further. Upon the proofs it is impossible to contend
that contraband formed any part of the inward cargo.
Again. If any part of the inward cargo was contraband in
its nature, as the voyage was between neutral ports in its
prqject, and was consummated by the delivery of the whole
cargo at Matamoras, no offence is predicable of a trade in
contraband not seeking an enemy port.
2. As to theC'CARGO.
The inward cargo captured was neutral property, and was
not contraband.
Its value was o trivial as to deserve little attention, and
the outward cargo consisted of 904 bales of cotton, and as
it was not contraband in its nature, and, whatever*its nature,
it could not be contraband from its outward destination; as,
besides, it was not being exported in violation of.blockade,
it can be condemned only as enemy property.
Upon the proofs it is impossible to contend that any impatation goes beyond the fact, that some undesignated and
unmeasured part of this cotton had been, before lading, enemy property. But as trade by neutrals with the enemy, and
the purchase of enemy property, except in violation of blockSee The

'eterhoff, supra, p. 28.

t Mr, Welles to Mr. Seward, Diplomatic Correspondence, 1864, Part I,
548.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

531

Argument for the captors.

ade, are wholly lawful, no consequence of condemnation,
from enemy origin, can be pretended.*
Finally. The capture was wholy unjustifiable, and the
restitution decreed should have been attended with damages
and costs.
The innocence of the vessel and her voyage and cargo,
was apparent upon visitation, and there was no justification
for suspicion or srnise to their prejudice.
When captors thus intercept an open prosecution of an
apparently lawful trade, and visitation exhibits every trait
of honest neutrality, and the commerce thus indicated is not
only lawful, but is constantly engaged in by our own vessels,
the integrity of the prize courts demands the infliction of
damages and costs as a check to the speculative cupidity of
captors.
The features of this case are not distinguishable from
those of The Labuan, intercepted in her trade at Matamoras,
and brought into New York. She was promptly restor'ed,
the diplomatic claim for damages immediately recognized,
and an adjustment proceeded with.t
The decree of restitution should be affirmed, and the decree charging the claimants with costs and refusing them
damages, should be reversed.
Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General for the United States,
and Mr. Eames, for the captors, contra:
I. We could argue, perhaps, that the testimony of all the
witnesses taken in preparatoriomight, in the discretion of the
court, have been well received in furtherance of justice. One
of them was a person stationed on a New York vessel, temporarily in the harbor, and could not be subsequently procured. We need not so argue. But undoubtedly the
further proofs must be hea'd. There was enough in the
mere character of an armed vessel to excite suspicion, even
if the court had no right to look at all the depositions.
The Bermuda, 8 Wallace, 557.
t Diplomatic Correspondence, 1863, Part I, p. 476, Lord Lyons to Mr.
Seward.
C'

632

Tim SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the captors.

I. The locality of the capture, admitting it to have been
made in Mexican waters, is unimportant. Mexico makes
no remornstrance; in no way objects. We admit the ingenuity and force also of the opposing argument made by Mr.
Evarts. But all the authorities agree that capture within
neutral territory can only e averred in support of a claim
for restoration by the accredited agent of the government
whose neutral immunity has been thus infringed. Neither
the enemy claimant, who has 1o standing in the prize courts,
nor the citizen claimant, who has made his property liable
to condemnation in prize for unlawful trading with the
eneny, nor the neutral claimant, who, at the time of capture, is found in the predicament of having laid aside his
neutral character, and having, by unneutral conduct, made
himself pro hac vice an enemy, can set up for defence against
decree of condemnation so incurred, the fact of capture
within neutral limits. No case has been or can be produced
giving warrant for such allegation. All the adjudged cases
state, with equal explicitness and emphasis, first, that the
claim of neutral immunity, when properly pleaded by the
aggrieved neutral government, is conclusive and effectual in
all cases as a defence against a decree of condemnation, and,
secondly, that such claim on such ground can be made only
by and in behalf of such government whose territorial rights
have been infringed.
In The Purissima Concepcion,* the leading British case
upon the subject, Lord Stowell stated, in the plainest words
he could use, that "it is a known principle of this court that
the privilege of territory will not itself enure to the protection of property, unless the state from which that protection
is due steps forward to assert the right.7'
The same doctrine is maintained in the other British
cases,t and in The Anne, in our own.,T
In no one of these cases does the court attempt to make
* 6 Robinson, 45.

J-The Etrusco, cited 3 Robinson, 31; The Eliza Ann, 1 Dodson, 244;
The Diligentia, Id. 412.

1 3 Wheaton, 435.

Dec. 1866.]

TiE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

533

Argument for tlw captors.

any distinction between the case of a captured non-combatant enemy and a captured neutral who has forsaken his neutrality, and by his conduct made himself liable to be captured and condemned as aii enemy.
The order issued by the Navy Department to our naval
vessels on the 14th of August, 1862, prohibiting the capture
of any vessel within the territorial waters of a friendly nation, has no application to a case like this, where the captors
proceeded upon the best observations which could be made,
and so determined the position of the prize to be such as to
make her capture not only lawful, but obligatory upon theta
in the performance of their duty. The order is intended to
protect the territorial immunity of neutral nations, and not
to save blockade-runners and contrabandists, in doubtful positions near the neutral line, from the lawful and rightful
penalty of their conduct.
II. The testimony brings out the fact made known in
other cases, that the whole system of traffic during our rebellion between Matamoras and the British ports, was but a
fraudulent pretence of honest and legitimate neutral trade,
and that the plan and scheme of the voyages were organized
with the purpose of concealing enemy property, and in a"
manner peculiarly offensive both to the belligerent and the
sovereign rights of the United States.
As matter of public law, any neutral vessel engaged and
arrested in the prosecution of a traffic so suspicious-and demoralizing as that with a neutral along the line of a river on
which lay a blockaded and suffering enemy, should be held
in, a prize court to conclusive proof of her innocence. in
the absence of such proof, the inference must be that she is
guilty.
The selection of a steamer of the size, strength, and armament of the Peel for the Matamoras trade; the touching at
Jamaica,-suppressed by the master, but confesscd by the
mate,-material, when the 'ship is afterwards found clan.
destinely discharging machinery, no machinery being upon
the manifest; the universal belief at Matamoras that the vessel and cargc were owned by rebel parties, and that the for-

534

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mer was not meant to return to Liverpool, but was intended,
after discharging her cotton at Havana and Nassau, to be
turned into a rebel privateer; the munitions, arms, and cannon she had on board, suitable only for war service, and not
at all excused, but the contrary, by the fact that they were on
board when the vessel was bought; the admissions by rebel
agents that they had goods aboard; the unexplained failure
of Milmo & Co., testifying through their partner, under the
order for thrther proof, to produce the instructions from
Henry & Co. as to the disposition of the outward cargo and
purchase of the return cargo; the employment by Hen v &
Co., claimants, of Milmo & Co. to act as their agents, when
they were the notorious and advertised commercial agents
of the rebel authorities in Texas, known to have little, if
any, other business than the obtaining of cotton from those
authorities for exportation, as return cargo, through the
port of Brownsville, where they had a branch house,-all
mark a dishonest purpose on the part of those concerned in
this adventure; and the decree of restoration in the court
below should be reversed, and both ship and cargo con-'
dermned.
They would, indeed, have been so but for the idea of the
judge below, that the capture in neutral waters saved them;
an idea which, though so ably. supported on the other side,
we have shown has no foundation in law.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Regularly in cases of prize no evidence is admissible on
the first hearing, except that which comes from the ship,
either in the papers or the testimony of persons found on
board.
If upon this evidence the case is not sufficiently clear to
warrant condemnation or restitution, opportunity is given
by the court, either of its own accord or upon motion and
proper grounds shown, to introduce additional evidence under an order for further proof.
In the case now before us some testimony was taken, pre.
paratory to the first hearing, of persons not found on board

Dec. 1866.]

THE SIm WILLIAM PEEL.

535

Opinion of the court.

the ship, nor, indeed, in any way connected with her. This
evidenee was properly excluded by the district judge, and
the hearing took place on the proper proofs.
Upon that hearing an order for further proof was made,"
allowing the libellants and captors, on the one side, and the
claimants, on the other, to put in additional evidence; and
such evidence was put in accordingly on both sides.
The preparatory evidence on the first bearing consisted
of the depositions of the master of the ship, the mate, and
one seaman. No papers were produced,, for none were
found on board; a circumstance explained by the statement
of the master, that all the papers belonging to the vessel,
except the lightermen's receipts for the cargo, were with
the English consul and the consignees of the ship at Matamors.
The depositions established the neutral ownership of the
ship and cargo. They proved that the Sir William Peel
was a British merchantman ; that she, had brought a general
cargo, no part of which was contraband, from Liverpool to
Matamoras; that this carco, except an inconsiderable portion, had been,delivered to the consignee at the latter port;
that the cotton found on board was part of her return cargo;
that it was owned by neutrals, and had a neutral destination; and that the ship, when captured, was in Mexican
waters, well south of the boundary between Mexico and
Texas.
This proof clearly required restitution. The order for
further proof was, probably, made upon the rejected depositions, which, though inadmissible as evidence for condemnation, may have been allowed to be used as affidavits on the
motion for the order.
The further proof, when taken, was conflicting.
The weight of evidenge, we think, put the vessel, at the
time of capture, in Mexican waters; but if the ship or cargo
was enemy property, or either was otherwise liable to condemnation, that circumstance, by itself, would not avail the
claimants in a prize court. It might constitute a ground of
claim by the neutral power, whose territory had suffered

UNITED STATES V. PICO.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

trespass, for apology or indemnity. But neither an enemy.
nor a neutral, acting the part of an enemy, can demand restitution of captured property on the sole ground of capture
in neutral waters.
We must, therefore, look further into the case.
There is some evidence which justifies suspicion. Several
witnesses state facts which tend to prove that the Peel was
in the employment of the rebel government; and that part,
at least, of the cotton laden upon her, as return cargo, was
in fact rebel property.
There are statements, on the other hand, which make it
probable that the Peel was in truth what she professed to
be, a merchant steamer, belonging to neutral merchants,
and nothing more; that her cargo was consigned in good
faith by neutral owners for sale at Matamoras, or to be conveyed across the i'iver and sold in Texas, as it might lawfully
be, not being contraband; that the cotton was purchased by
neutrals, and on neutral account, with the proceeds of, the
cargo or other money.
In this confliet of evidene we do not think oruselves
warranted in condemning, or in quite excusing the vessel or
her cargo. We shall, therefore, affirm the decree by the
District Court, and direct restitution, without costs or expenses to either party as against the other.
AFFIRMANCE AND DIRECTION ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. PICO.
I. When, in Mexican grants, boundaries are given, and a limitation upon

the quantity embraced within the boundaries is intended, words expressing such intention are generally used.

In their absence the extent

of the grant is only subject to the limitation upon the power of the governor imposod by the colonization law of 1824.
2 Where a doubt arises upon the meaning of the grant as to the quantity
ceded, reference may be had to the juridical possession delivered to the
grantee. This proceeding involved an ascertainment and settlement of
the boundaries of the land granted, by the aljpropriate officers of the gov.

