Dec. 1866.]

EWING V. CITY OF ST.

Louis.

413

Statement of. the case.

EWING V. CITY -OF ST. Louis.
1. With the proceedings and determinatiops of inferior boards or tribunalh
of special jurisdiction, courts of equity will not interfere, unless it should
become nbcessary to prevent a multiplicity of suits or irreparableinjury,
or unless the proceeding sought to be annulled or corrected is valid upon
its face, and the alleged invalidity consists in matters to be established
by extrinsic evidence. In other cases the review and correction of the
proceedings must be obtained by the writ of certiorari.
Therefore, to a bill filed to enjoin the enforcement of certain judgments
rendered against the complainant by the mayor of St. Louis for the
amount of alleged benefit to his property from the opening of a street
in that city, and setting forth, as grounds of relief, ,want of authority
in the mayor, and various defects and irregularities in the'proceedings,
a demurrer on the ground that a court of equity had no jurisdiction of
the matter, and that the complainant had a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, was sustained.
2. A non-resident complainant can ask no greater relief in the courts of the
United States than he could obtain were he to resort to the State courts.
If, in the latter courts, equity would afford uo relief, neither will it in
the former.

Tiis was a bill in equity, filed in the Circuit Court for Missouri, to enjoin the enforcement of certain judgments rendered against the complainant by the mayor of St. Louis for
the amount of alleged benefit to his property from the open2
ing of Wash Street, in that city, and to obtain conpensation.
for the property of the complainant appropriated by the city
for the use of the street.
The bill, Qfter averring the complainant's ownership of
certain lots in that city, alleged that the mayor, at the instance of the city, and by its authority, issued a notice and
summons against the complainant and others as defendants,
addressed to the marshal of the city, with the object of notifying to them proceedings thereby instituted "Jbr the purpose of condemning private property in order to open Wash Street,"
and summoning them to appear before him on a day named,
to show cause why the city should not proceed to open the
street, &c.
That aj,ry was sworn at the instance of the city to assess
the damages and benefits against and for the said city and

EWING V. CITY OF ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

against and for all persons whose property was benefited or
taken by the said street being opened, and retu ned, as their
verdict (in so far as regarded the complainant), that in order
to open Wash Street, it would be necessary to take a parcel
of land (described) belonging to the complainant, and the
actual value of which, without reference to the proposed irnprovement, was found to be $1027; also, two other parcels
(described), the actual value of which was found' to be $5825.
The jury also found that the entire value of the ground
necessary to be taken for the said purpose, including that
above named of the complainant, was $18,492. To pay
which the jury assessed against the city $100, against the
complainant as owner of certain blocks and lots $7993.58,
qud the residue against other owners, $10,398 42. Total,
$!8,492.
That this verdict was afterwards entered on the journal
of proceedings kept by the mayor, and was not set aside,
but was, within fbur months after being rendered, reported
by the mayor to the city council, and within three months
thereafter, to wit, on the 9th day of November, 1858, the
city council, by ordinance, appropriated the sun of.$100 to
pay said assessment against the city; but that the mayor did
not, at any time within twenty days after said appropriation
was made, render judgment in favor of said city against the
complainant, for the said sums assessed against him as aforesaid by the verdict of the jury.
That the mayor was not vested in law with power and authority to render such judgment against him at any time,
and had not any color or pretence of authority by any ordinanue or provision of law to render any such judgment at
any time after the expiration of twenty days after the appropriation was so made by the council. Nevertheless, that at
some long time after the expiration of twenty days therehfter, there was written upon the journal of proceedings of
the mayor, where the same still remains, an entry, set forth
in the bill in extenso, the substance of which is, that "Now,
on the 20th day of November, 1858, the city council having,
on the 9th day of November,.1858, confirmed the award of

Dec. 1866.]

EWING V. CITY OF ST.

Louis.

415

Statement of the case.

the jury in the matter of opening Wash Street," &c., "and
made an appropriation to pay the sum awarded by said verdict against the city, it is therefbre ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that the city do recover of the said parties and of the
said property set forth and described in said verdict the several sums and amounts assessed and allowed by way of benefits in said verdict, on account of, ' &c'.,
"in manner and
form following, to wit," &c. (reciting, so far as regards the
complainant, the substance of the verdict), "anounting, in
the aggregate, to the sum of $7993.58 damages by way of
benefits, an(1 $1.25 costs, and have execution therefor." The
name of 0. D. Filley, mayor, being subscribed at the foot
of said entry upon the said journal.
That the said entry, although of no legal validity, never.
theless tends to, and does, materially injure and prejudice
the complainant in this, that the said city, by its officers and
agents, gives it out in speeches, and insists that the entry is,
in legal effect, ajudgment, and as such is conclusive against
the complainant as evidence of debt, to the amount therein
set forth, to the said city; and that the several parcels of the
complainant's property inreference to which said assessments
were made are bound and liable for the payment of said alleged debt, to be sold on execution, threatened to be issued
in behalf of the city on the pretended judgment; by reason
whereof the complainant is injured in the use and enjoyment of his said property, and hindered and prevented from
selling and disposing thereof by reason of the cloud cast
upon his title thereto, &c.
The bill then proceeded to allege that the verdict and
judgment were invalid, void, and ineffectual in law to deprive him of his said property or to raise against him a debt
to the city or otherwise, and set forth various grounds of alleged illegality in the proceedings. The principal of these
grounds were, that the proceedings were taken without
notice to the complainant or any entry of his appearance in
person or by attorney; that the notice required was not published according to law; that no provision was made for compensation for the property taken; that the mayor was not

EwING V.

CITY OF St.

Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellant.

clothed with authority to render the judgment in question
by the legislature, and that the city was not empowered to
invest him with any such authority; and that the statutes
under which the proceedings purported to have been commenced were repealed before the proceedings were completed.
To this bill the defendant demurred, on the ground, anong
other things, that it did not contain facts constituting or
giving to the complainant any equitable cause of action, or
coming within the equity powers of the court; that on the
contrary., it appeared that the court as a court of equity had
no jurisdiction or authority to take cognizance of any such
matters as those described and complained of in the bill;
and that it appeared that the complainant had for his alleged
grievances, a plain, adequate, and complete remedy given
him by law.
The court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill,
and the complainant appealed to this court.
Mr. T. Ewing, Jr.,for the appellant:
1. This is a proper case for equity jurisdiction. Numerous
cases show this.*
2. Our standing in court being established, we are entitled
to a decree setting aside the pretended judgment and enjoining execution thereof, on the ground that the mayor had
no authority in law to render judgment or issue execution.
3. The scheme for taking private property for public use,
in the execution of which this verdict arises, provides no
compensation for. the property taken, and is therefore unconstitutional and void.t
Freuin v. Lewis, 4 Mylne& Craige, 254; Simpson v. Lord.Howden, 8 Id.
97; Belknap v. Belknap, 2 Johnson's Chancery, 463; Burnet v. City of Cincinnati, 3 Ohio, 86; Anderson and wife v. Commrs., 12 Ohio State, 635;
Walker v. Wynne, 3 Yerger, 62; Am. Ins. Co. v. Fisk, 1 Paige, 90; Oakley v. Trustees, &c., 6 Id. 265; Whitlock v. Dufield, 2 Edwards, 366; Page
v. City of St. Louis, 20 Missouri, 136; Lockwood v. St. Louis, 24 Id. 20;
Fowler v. St. Joseph, 37 Id. 240.
t Gardner v. Newburgh, &c., 2 Johnson's Chancery, 162; McArthur v.
Kelly et al , 5 Ohio, 139; Lamb & McKee v. Lane, 4 Ohio State, 167; 2
Kent's Commentary, 334.

l)ec. 1866.]

EwING v. CITY or ST. Louis.

417

Opinion of the court.

4. The proceedings had by the jury were void as to appellant, fbr want of notice, actual or constructive.
5. The court having jurisdiction of the parties and the
subject-matter, will determine all rights and equities growing out of the case, and will decree compensation for the
lands actually appropriated and in. the use and permanent
occupancy of the defendants.
C. D. Drake, contra:
1. The case is not one for the exercise of the equitable
jurisdiction of the court, because if the court could take
jurisdiction at all of the revision of the mayor's proceedings,
there is a plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law, by
cerfiorari.*
2. The review and correction of all errors, mistakes, and
abuses in the exercise of subordinate public jurisdictions,
and in the official acts of public officers, belong exclusively
to a court of law, and has always been a matter of legal, and
never of equitable, cognizance.t
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The object of tjiis suit is twofold1st. To enjoin the enforcement of certain judgments rendered against the complainant by the mayor of St. Louis for
the amount of alleged benefit to his property from the opening of Wash Street, in that city.
2d. To obtain compensation for the property of the complainant appropriated by the city for the use of the street.
The bill details the steps taken by the city and the mayor"
at the instance and as the servant of the city, for the opening of the street, the finding of the jurors summoned before
that officer, and the estimates made by them of the value of
the property appropriated, and of the benefits which would
*

Heywood v. Buffalo, 14 New York, 584; Nichols v. Sutton, 22 Georgia,

369; Myers v. Simms, 4 Iowa, 500; Longfellow v. Quimby, 29 Maine, 196.

t Mooers v. Smedley, 6 Johnson's Chancery, 28; Brooklyn v. Meserolo,
26 Wendell, 132; Van Doren v. New York, 9 Paige, 388; Heywood v. Baf-

falo, 14 New York, 634.
VOL. V.

27

418

EWING

v.

CITY OF

ST. Louis.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

flow from the improvement, both to the public and to the
owners of adjoining property, and sets forth various grounds
of alleged illegality in the proceedings.
Of these grounds the principal are, that the proceedings
were taken without notice to the complainant, or any appearance by him; that the notice provided by law was not
published as required; that no provision was made for coinpensation for the property taken ; that no power to render
the judgments was vested in the mayor by any act of the
legislature, or could be invested in him by the city authorities under any clause of the city charter; and that the statutes under which the proceedings purported to have been
taken were repealed before the proceedings were completed.
These grounds are by the demurrer admitted to be true, and
being true no reason exists upon which to justify the interpositiou of a court of equity.
If the statutes and ordinances under which the mayor undertook to act did not invest him with any authority to render the judgments against the complainant, the judgments
were void, and could not cast a cloud upon his title, or impair any remedies at law provided for the protection of his
property, or the redress of trespasses to it.
On the other hand, if the statutes and ordinances invested
the mayor with authority, when new streets in the city were
to be opened, to render judgments for the amount of benefits assessed against the ow-ers of adjoining property, and
in this instance he failed to follow their provisions, or exceeded the jurisdiction they conferred, the remedy of the
complainant was by certiorariat law, and not by bill in equity.
With the proceedings and determinations of inferior boards
or tribunals of special jurisdiction, courts of equity will not
interfere, unless it should become necessary to prevent a
multiplicity of suits or irreparable injury, or unless the proceeding sought to be annulled or corrected is valid upon its
face, and the alleged invalidity consists in matters to be established by extrinsic evidence. In other cases the review
and correction-of the proceedings must be obtained by the
writ of certiorari. This is the general and well-established

Dec. 1866.]

DE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.

419

Syllabus,

doctrine. Examples in which this is asserted are found in
The Mayor, &c., of Brooklyn v. Meserole,* and in Heywood v.
The Oily of Btffalo,t and in the cases there cited.t
The complainant can ask no greater relief in the courts
of the United States than he could obtain were lie to resort
to the, State courts. If in the latter courts equity would afford no relief, neither will it in the former.
The second object of the bill-the obtaining of compensation for the property actually appropriated by the city-falls
with the first. If the proceedings for its appropriation were
void, the title remains in the complainant, and lie can resort
to the ordinary remedies afforded by the law for the recovery
of the possession of real property wrongfully withheld.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

IDE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.
1. In bringing appeals to this court from the Court of Claims, the record
must be prepared strictly according to the General Rules announced on
the subject of.that class of appeals at. December Term, 1865, and printed
at large in 3 Wallace, vii-viii.
Hence only such statement of facts is to be sent up to this court as may be
necessary to enable it to decide upon the correctness of the propositions
of law ruled below; and this statement is to be presented in the shape
of the facts found by that court to be established by the evidence in such
form as to raise the question of law decided by the court. It should not
include the evidence in detail.
2.Where a resolution of Congress authorized one of the executive departments to settle, on principles of justice and equity, all damages, losses,
and liabilities incurred or sustained by certain parties who had contracted to manufacture brick for the government, Provided I' that the said
parties first surrender to the United States all the brick made, together
with all the machines and applianees, and other personal property prepared for executing the said contract, and that said contract be cancelled," an award is not within the resolution, which, taking a surrender
of real estate-the brick-yard-where the brick, machinery, and appliances were, makes allowance for it. Nor will another award be brought
within the submission, because the party, being dissatisfied with the
first award, Congress has referred the matter to another executive de26 Wendell, 132.
$ See also Scott v. Onderdonk, Id. 9.

t 4 Kernanm, 584.

