342

T.Hu

GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. OCt.

Syllabus.

THE GRAY JACKET.
MERITS.)

1. The proclamation of President Lincoln made December 8th, 1863, granting to all persons (with certain exceptions) who had participated in the
then existing rebellion, a foil pardon, with restoration of all rights of
property except in slaves and in property cases, where rights of third
persons shall have intervened, has no application to cases of maritime
capture, and therefore does not extinguish the liability of a vessel and
cargo seized flagrante delictowhiie running the blockade then declared
against our southern coast, from the consequences of condemnation by
a prize court.
2. A claimant's own affidavit that he is not within the exceptions of the
proclamation, is insufficient to establish the fact in setting Up the proclamation as an extinguishment of the liability above described.
8. A remission by toe Secretary of the Treasury under the act of July 13th,
1861, providing (*5) that all goods, &c., coming from avState declared
to be in insurrection ''into the other parts of the United States," by land
or water, shall, together with the vessel conveying the same, be forfeited
to the United States; and also (Q6) any vessel belonging in whole or in
part to any citizen or inhabitant of such State, "found at sea;" but
enacting also ( 8) that the forfeitures and penalties incurred by virtue
of the act may be mitigated or remitted in pursuance of the authority
vested in the said Secretary by an act approved 3d March, 1797, or in
cases where special circumstances may seem to require it, &c., does not
reach a case where the vessel and cargo were not proceeding to a loyal
State.
4. The statute does not give the Secretary power to remit in any case of
property captured as maritime prize of war.
5. The liability of property, the product of an enemy country, and coming
from it during war, is irrespective of the status doieicilii, guilt or in.
nocene of the owner. If it come from enemy territory, it bears the
impress of enemy property. If it belong to a loyal citizen of the country of the captors, it is nevertheless as much liable to condemnation as
if owned by a citizen or subject of the hostile country or by the hostile
government itself. The only qualification of these rules is, that whore,
upon the breaking out of hostilities or as soon after as possible, the
owner escapes with such property as he can take with him, or in good
faith thus early removes his property, with the view of putting it beyond the dominion of the hostile power, the property in such cases is
exempt from the liability which would otherwise attend it.
6. Where the war (a civil war) broke out in April, 1861, a removal on the
30th December, 1863, said to be too late.
7. An order for further proof in prize cases is always made with extreme

Dec. 1866.]

THE GRAY JACKET.
Statement of the case.

caution, and only where the ends of justice clearly require it. A claimant forfeits the right to ask it, by any guilty concealments previously
made in the case.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, the case being thus :
The steamer Gray Jacket, and her cargo, consisting of
513 bales of cotton, 25 barrels of rosin, some turpentineand
tobacco, were captured during the late rebellion, by the
United States war vessel Kennebec, on the morning of 31st
December, 1863, on the hiyh seas, about forty miles south of
Mobile Bay and beyond the limits of the blockade then established of that port, by the Federal government. The
steamer had 'gone out of Mobile Bay on the previous night'
in the dark, and endeavoring, as the captors alleged, to escape, was pursued and on ihe next morning captured by the
Kennebec for breach of blockade. She was, at this time,
in a disabled condition owing to a storm in the night, and
on the firing of a gun across her bows hove to, without resistance, and without having changed her course.
Being sent into Now Orleans for adjudication, her captain
(one Mealier), who owied her; the mate, named Flynn, and
her chief engineer, were examined in preparalorio, on the
standing ingerroyatories. These were all the witnesses thus
examined.
In r(ply to these interrogatories,Meaher, the captain, stated
that he was born in Maine, but had lived thirty years in Mobile. " I am a citizen," he continued, " of the State of Alabama, to which lowe my allegiance." lie stated that the vessel came out of harbor with the American flag flying;
that he was owner of the vessel and of the eargo; "that the
voyage began at Mobile, and was to have ended at Havana;"
that in case the vessel had arrived there, he thought that lie
should have reshipped the cargo to some place where he
could have received a better price for it than he could in
Havana.
Flynn, the mate, examined after Meaher had been, made
the same statement as to the destination of the vessel and
cargo. Ile stated, however, that the vessel sailed "undx

Tim GRAYJACKET:.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

English colors and bad no other."
be said:

As to their ownership,

" The owners of the vessel were Captain Meaher and brother.
They also owned half the cargo. The balance was for Confederate
government account. The greatest part of the cotton was produced upon Meaher's lands. I understood they had built the
Gray Jacknet expressly to carry their own cotton to Havana, but
they had to allow the government an interest of one-half; otherwise they would not have been permitted to leave Mobile. The
Gray Jacket on the trip in which she was taken had attempted
to sail covertly from the port of Mobile, then under blockade.
She could not have left it otherwise than secretly."
The cotton, it appeared, was the product of Alabama.
The depositions in which these statements were made,
were taken on the 26th of February, 1864. About a month
afterwards, Meaher filed what he called a "claim, and answer
to the libel." It'presented a narrative in its material parts,
as follows:
" That he, the said Timothy, is the true and bonO fide owner
of the said steamer, and of the cargo thereon, and that uo other
person is the owner thereof.
"That he was living in Mobile, at the time the rebellion broke
out, and that he had resided there for upwards of thirty years
prior thereto; that after the breaking out of the said rebellion
he gave no aid to the same; that he had previously, by a life of
industry and economy, and the prosecution of legitimate business, acquired a large amount of property; that after the breaking out of the rebellion he became anxious to adopt some measure by which he might be able to withdraw the same to a place
of security; that with that object he built the said steamer with
his own means, and loaded her with the goods constituting her
cargo, and then procured a clearance from the so-called Confederate authorities, exercising all the powers of a government
defacto in Mobile,,State of Alabama, from the said port of Mobile to the port of Havana, in the island of Cuba, then and now
a port of~a country in amity with the United States, as the only
means by which he could be enabled to effect the withdrawal
of his property from the limits of the so-called Confederacy.

Dec. 1866.]

THE GRAY JACKET.
Statement of the case.

"And he now avers the truth to be that his right of pioperty
in the said steamer and in her cargo, which was full and complete
while the same were in the port of Mobile, continued to be fall and
complete after he had gotten upon the high seas with the intent
of escaping from the power and control of the States in 'ebellion to a port in a country in amity with the United States, and
that the said steamer and cargo were not at any time after their
escape from the said port of Mobile, rightfully subject to cap.
ture, &c.
"And further answering, he says that the President by a proclamation dated the 8th December, A. D. 1863, declared to all
persons who had participated in the existing rebellion except
as thereinafter excepted, that a full pardon is granted to them
and each of them, with restoration of all rights of property except as to slaves and in property cases where rights of thirdparties
shall have in ervened, upon the condition that every such person
shall take and subscribe an oath, as prescribed in the said proclamation, and shall thenceforward keep and maintain said oath
inviolate; that he, the defendant, is not embraced in the exceptions made by the said proclamation ; that on the 18th day of
March, 1864, be took and subscribed the oath, as prescribed.
That in the premises a full pardon is extended to him, even if
he had directly or by implication participated in the existing
rebellion, and that he therefore now pleads the pardon as a bar
to any further proceedings."
On a subsequent day the court, on motion of
the District
Attorney of the United States, ordered so much of the claim
and answer as was in the nature of an answer to be stricken
from the record. The captors then offered in evidence the
proofs in preparalorioand a paper found on board the captured vessel, as follows:
"Memo. of agreements made between Messrs. Meaher & Bro., owners
of the st'r Gray Jacket, and Henry Meyers, major and ch'f ord.
officer, acting for the gover't of the C. S. :
" The gover't will furnish the whole cargo of cotton, and
will make over to the owners of the vessel one-half of the cotton, in consideration of which the owners do agree to deliver
the other half,belonging to the government, at {avana, free of

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statemcnt of the case.

further charge, except the one-half of the expenses of compressing and storing incurred at Mobile.
"It is understood and agreed that the said steamer is to return
to Mobile, if practicable; if not, then to some other confederate
port; and the gover't is to be allowed at least one-half of the
carrying capacity of the steamer in the return voyage, at a
freight of £25 per ton, and for any excess over the one-half required by the gover't, at £30 per ton, payable in cotton, at the
rate of' 6d. per pound for middling, and other grades in proportion, on delivery of the freight.
"It is further understood and agreed that in the event of a partial loss of the outward cargo, the portion of cotton saved is to
be equally divided between the parties at the port of destination,
and any loss on the inward cargo is to be settled on the princi.
ple of general average, as far as the cargo is concerned.
" HENRY MEYERS,
Major and Ch'f Ord. Officer, Dep't of the Gulf.
"MOBILE, Oct. 22, '63."

On the other side, the claimant put in evidence the oath
referred to in his claim and answer. It was an oath of loyalty, promising thereafter fhithfully to support the Constitution of the United States, &c., being an oath prescribed in
the proclamation of President Lincoln of December 8th,
1863, referred to in the answer, and by which the said President, reciting that it was desired by some persons heretofore
engaged in rebellion, to resume their allegiance to the
United States, " proclaimed and made known to all persons
who had directly, or by implication, participated in the existing rebellion, except as hereinafter excepted, that a full
pardon is granted to them, and each of them, with restoration or all rights of property, except as to slaves, and in
property eases where rights of third parties shall hare interrened,
and upon the condition that every such person shall take and
subscribe an oath," &c. Certain classes of persons were excepted. After the giving of this oath in evidence the claimant moved for an order to take further proof. The matter
was held open.
All these proceedings, including the giving in evidence

^

Dec. 1866.]

TuE GRAY JCKET.

347

Statement of the case.

of the paper above-named found on board, took place 5th
April, 1864. On tie 25th May following, the claimant made
a new affidavit, which was subsequently filed. It presented
a narrative as follows:
"That he, the said Timothy, is a loyal citizen of the United
States, born in the State of Maine; that he was late of' the city
of Mobile, in the State of Alabama, and that he is the true,
lawful, and sole owner of the steamer Gray Jacket, and of the
cotton constituting her cargo; that he was living in the city of
Mobile at the time the existing rebellion broke out, and that he
had resided there upwards of thirty years prior thereto; that
during the period which preceded the breaking out of the rebellion he opposed secession and did all in his power to prevent
the same, and to preserve and maintain the Union; and that
after the said rebellion broke out he gave it no aid or assistance
in any way whatever.
"And he further says: that after the breaking out of the rebellion he was anxious to adopt some course by which lie might
be enabled to withdraw the property he was in possession of, or
as considerable a portion of it as was practicable, from the socalled Confederate States, to a place of- security, and get it into
such a position that he might realize the value of it and return
to the State of Maine, where his mother now lives and where
he has property and many relations and friends; that with thi-s
object and intention, well known to several of his confidential friends, he built the said steamer Gray Jacket with his own
means, with the design of lading her with cotton belonging to
himself; that while he was engaged in building said steamer,
and she was approaching completion, the Confederate authorities at Mobile manifested a determination to make use of the
steamer to advance their own purposes, and proposed to load
her with cotton furnished by them and to give him one-half of
the cargo as the owner of the steamer, on condition that the
other half was landed at Havana, free of charge for freight, and
that he would bind himself to return to Mobile or to some other
Confederate port, and give to the so-called Confederate government a certain portion of the carrying capwcity of the said
steamer on certain terms and conditions; that situated as he
was, with his property and himself and his fhmily in the power
and under the control of the rebel authorities, he had no freedom

348

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of action, and could only by his manner manifest his repugnance
to any proposal without venturing on an absolute reft'sal to it;
that he did manifest great dissatisfaction to the proposed arrangement, and that no such contract was entered into by him
with the rebel authorities, and that no such arrangement by
them with him was carried into effect, either wholly or in part;
that although the said rebel authorities had seemed to abandon
the attempt of carrying out the said proposal, not havinag found
any cotton to be laded aboard of the said steamer, yet be ibund
that when he was ready to begin to lade his own cotton aboard
bf her that the said rebel authorities had not abandoned all
idea of deriving an advantage from exereisina a forced control
over his property.
"That an officer exercising authority at Mobile visited him and
said that he, Meaher, could not take the cargo out unless he
consented that one-half of the cargo to be put on board of the
steamcr should be for the account of the so-called Confederate
government, and that if he, Meaher, did not comply, he, the
officer, would take possession of the steamer and put a government crew on board of her; that he, Meaher, finding that it was
impossible for him to have any control over his property if he
refused to comply with the requisition on the part of one armed
with physical power to despoil him altogether, apparently submitted to and complied with the requisition,with the secret determinatioln to assert and maintain his real rights over the entire cargo so
soon as he had escaped beyond the authority and control of the rebel
States; that all the cotton laden on said-steamer at the time of
beginning her voyage, and found on board of her at the time of
her capture, was his own property, and had been produced on
his own plantation, or had been bought and paid for by him,
with a view to its being laded on board of said steamer for
transportation to Havana on' the contemplated voyage, on his
own account, and that before he obtained a clearance of the
said steamer Gray Jacket and her cargo, he was required to pay
and did pay the export duty imposed on all cotton exported, by
authority of an act of the Congress of the so-called Confederacy,
upon the entire amount of cargo embarked on the said steamer.
"That neither the so-called Confederate States, or any person
or persons in rebellion against the United States, or their factors, or agents, or any others, had at the time of the shipment
of the said cotton on the said steamer Gray Jacket, or at the

Dec. 1866.]

TiE GRAY JACKET.

849

Statement of the case.
time of the capture of the said steamer, on the 31st day of De.
cember, 1863, or now have any right, title, or interest in the
said cotton or in the siad steamer Gray Jacket.
"That it was at first his intention to have taken his wife and
children with him on board the said steamer on the said proposed voyage to Havana, but that he was afterwards deterred
from attempting to do so lest it should strengthen the suspicion
which already existed against him in the minds of the rebel au.
thorities, and prevent his getting away at all, and that he at last
unwillingly abandoned the idea and left them after having made
an arrangement with his brother, J. M. JIeaher, to send them as soon
afterwards as he could find a suitable opportunity, to Havana, where
they were to place themselvcs under the care of the commercial house
of Santa Maria, with whom he, Timothy Meaher, was to have made
an arrangement.
"That after lading the steamer, he procured a clearance from
the so-called Confederate authorities, exercising all the powers
of a government de facto in the said city of Mobile, in the State
of Alabama, from the port of Mobile to the port of Havana, as
the only means by which he could be enabled to effect the withdrawal of his said steamer with its cargo from the limits of the
so-called Confoderacy and beyond the powers and contro4 of the
States in rebellion against the government of the United States.
And ho further says that the President of the United States, by
a proclamation, dated the 8th day of December, 1863, declared,"
&c. [setting fbrth the proclamation and pardon, as in the former
affidavit on pp. 344-5.]
The court condemned the vessel and cargo.
The case being now in this court, Mr. B. F. Butler, in behalf of the claimant Meaher, moved for an order to take
f'rther proof; its purpose being, in effect, to establish the
truth of the facts set ftrth in the second affidavit of the
claimant; to show also in substance"That he sailed out past Fort Morgan, in the evening of the
30th of December, with the full intent to deliver himself up to
the blockading squadron, if he met it, or, failing to so do, to go
to Havana; that during the night his vessel was partially disabled,, bursting a steamn pipe, but he refused to return to Mobile

850

TiiE

GRtAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
although, owing to the storm, he had difficulty in keeping off
shore, and was obliged to make all the offing he could.
" That, seeing the Kennebec, he did not alter his course or attempt to get away from her, although he might have run ten
knots, his machinery being repaired, but kept at the rate of
four knots till the Kennebec came up.
"That he was sailing under the American flag hoisted on his
vessel, being the only one he had on board, and one which he
had preserved through the war, at the hazard of his life or liberty, befbre lie was captured.
"That when boarded he told the officer why his vessel was in
this predicament, and demanded protection for himself and property, but was seized as prize.
"That he answered the interrogatories put to him without any
knowledge of the object, and before he had any opportunity to
make any explanations or statements in his own behalf.
"That as soon as he was permitted, to wit, on the 18th of
March, 1864, he went before the proper officer and took the
oath of amnesty prescribed by the President's proclamation of
December 8, 1863, with full intention to keep the same, and has
ever kept his oath inviolate; that this was more than a year
before the war ended, and would have precluded his return to
Mobile while the Confederacy existed.
"That he has proved all these facts to the satisfaction of the
Secretary of the Treasury, who has remitted to him all the forfeitures prescribed by the act of Congress of July 13, 1861, and
acquited him of all intention of violating the laws of the United States or of aiding or abetting the rebellion."

Under the form of further proof he desired also to bring
before the court the remission by the Secretary of the Treasury above referred to, and made under the act of July 13,
1861.
This act, it is necessary to state, declares (§ 6) that any
vessel belonging, in whole or in part, to any citizen or inhabitant of a State whose inhabitants were declared to be in a
state of insurrection [as those of Alabama had been declared], " found at sea," should be forfeited to the United
States; and also, by another section (§ 5), "1 all goods and
chattels, wares and merchandise, coming from said State or

Dec. 1866.]

851

THE GRAY JACKET.
Statement of the case.

section, into the other parts of the United States,

.

.

.

by

land or water, together with the vessel or vehicle conveying
the same."
The act, however, declared (§ 8) that the forfeitures incurred by virtue of' it might be remitted in pursuance of the
authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury by an act
entitled, &c.
The act of remission under the seal of the Secretary, and
sought to be put in proof, bore date March 21st, 1866, and
ran thus:
"Whereas a petition has been made before me by Timothy
Meaher, a citizen of the State of Alabama. for the remission of
the forfeiture of the steamer Gray Jacket, and her tackle and
cargo, incurred under the statute of the United States entitled,
&c., approved July 13, 1861:
"And . . . it appearing to my satisfaction.that the said
forfeiture was incurred without any intent on the part of the
p~titioner to violate the laws of the United States, or to aid or
abet the insurrection against the government of the United
States, and that the petitioner is a loyal citizen, and that said
steamer and cargo were condemned by the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana as prize of war:
"Now therefore know ye, that I, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consideration of the premises, and by virtue of the power
and authority to me given by the said eighth section of the said
act of July 13, 1861, do hereby decide to remit to the petitioner
all the right, claim, and demand of the United States to the said
forfeiture, upon payment, &c., so far as such foifeiture was in..
curred under.the provisions of the act of July 13, 1861, but not otherwise."*
It app'-ared that as originally drawn, Meah'er's petition to
the Secretary of the Treasury recited in the foregoing act of
remission, set forth that Meaher "would satisty the honorable
Secretary of the Treasury that he was a loyal man, attempting to escape from the Confederacy, which he had never aided
with his property [and to take the same into the loyal States, by
12 Stat. at Large, 255.

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument fbr the captors.

way of ilavana, if his vessel should prove fit for the voyage], in
order to meet his wife and family, whom he had aeut out of
the Confederacy by another channel, and fbr whom he had
arranged to live at the house of his mother, in the State of
Maine;" that the petition thus drawn, and without the words
in italics and brackets, was filed and submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury to the Attorney.General, who objected
to it, to that officer," that it contained no allegation so as to
bring it within the act of July 13, 1861, that the cargo was
proceeding, when captured, from a revolted State into other
parts of the United States." The requisite words, indicated
above in the brackets and italics, appeared as an interlineated
amendment.
The court allowed this remission by the Secretary to be
received as part of the case; which therefore, as it now
stood before this court, presented three questions:
1. How far the judgment should be affected by Meaher's
oath of loyalty, in connection with the proclamation of the
President giving full pardon and with restoration of ali
rights of property, except "in property cases where rights
of third parties shall have intervened ?"
2. How far it should be affected by the remission now allowed to be read and relied on, from the Secretary of the
Treasury?
3. Whether, if it was unchanged by these, the case was
one for further proof?
Mr. Ashton, Assistapt Attorney-General, for the United States,
and Mr. Eames, for the captors:
I. Mealer declares that he was at all times a loyal citizen
of the United States, and yet relies on the proclamation of
President Lincoln in favor of those "who have participated
in the existing rebellion;" declares that he has ever acted
a patriotic part, and then sets up a "full pardon" for
treason.
The proclamation and pardon was never meant for persons such as Meaher describes himself to be.
But for whomever meant, it excepts "property cases where

Dec. 1866.]

THE GRAY

353

JACKET.

Argument for the captors.

the right of third parties had intervened." Here the right
of the captors, by the act of seizure, intervened. The case
is in terms excepted.
Neither has Meaher proved that he is not within the classes
excepted from the benefit of the proclamation. He asserts,
indeed, in his ex parle affidavit, that he is not; but that is no
proof of the fact.
II. The case is no better on the remission from the Treasury. The vessel was not "found" at sea within one section
of the act of July 13, 1861. She was captured when sailing,
a flag flying, her officers and crew aboard; nothing derelict
about her; seized, not found. Neither were the vessel and
cargo coming from. a rebellious State or section. into the
other parts of the United States" so as to come within the
other section. The voyage was unquestionably to Havana.
Going from Mobile to Maine, viO Havana, the plan finally
set up, was plainly all an afterthought.
Besides, the present condemnation was incurred by virtue
of the public law of war, and not under the statute of July
13, 1861, and is therefore, by the terms of the warrant, excluded from its operation.
Even if this were not so, the Secretary's power to remit
forfeitures incurred by virtue of the statute of 1861 is limited,
by the words of the statute to eases of seizure and proceedings to enforce forfeitures under the statute, and does not extend to and cannot be exercised in cases of maritime captures of vessels and cargoes under the law of war, adjudicated under that law, and in the prize jurisdiction, and then
condemned -as prize of war on account of breach of blockade.
Recent eases in this court show vessels captured and condemned as prize of war, though at the time of capture, and
until so captured, liable also to seizure and forfeiture under
the statute of 13th July, 1861, as belonging, in whole or in
part, to citizens or inhabitants of the insurrectionary States,
and found at sea. Among these, the Baigory and the Andromeda;* the Cornelius and the Bermuda.t
2 Wallace, 481, 489.
VOL. V.

t 3 Id. 214, 653.
28

TiE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. CL

Argument for the captors.

III. 16 the case one for further proof?
1. Whatever Meaher's general feelings or views were in regard to the rebellion, there is no doubt, we submit, that this
voyage was a speculation, a fraud on the blockade. le was
captured on the high seas, outside the line of the block
ading vessels, steering to Havana, trying, as the captors re
port, and, as seems obvious, to escape. If he could bring
a host of witnesses to show what he was and what he
meant before sailing; that he was then a loyal man,
wishing to return to loyal regions and loyal friends, these
facts contradict them all, in a way past any power of
refutal. Why did he not first seek the blockading squad
ron ? Indeed, the matters set up in his affidavits seem to
have been quite an afterthought. There is nothing even
in his deposition taken in preparatorio, which so much as
adumbrates the scheme subsequently set up as the true hi,tory. If ever a claimant showed a character and a case
where further proof ought not to be allowed, it is Meaher.
lie has shown that he can make proof ad libitum. Ile first
gives evidence and files an answer, showing one case, sufficient, as he supposes, for the then necessity. But the mate
contradicts him as to ownership, and the government produces the document found on board, which confirms what
the mate had declared. He then files a second affidavit, setting up a further case, and explaining away the evidence
against him. He next petitions the Secretary of the Treasury, setting forth his case as he thought needful. Objection
is made by the Attorney-General that his case is radically defective in its facts, the non-existing facts being pointed out.
And lo! Meaher immediately interlines and states the required ficts. Allowance for further proof in such a case
would be a direct encouragement to perjury. Courts of admiralty are most careful not to lay snares in this way for defective consciences.
We may, moreover, well doubt whether Meaher was an
honest or a loyal man at all. le confesses that he meant to
cheat the Confederacy for his own benefit, not for the nation's. And why does he state that his allegiance was due

Dec. 1866.]

Tim, GRAY JACKET.

355

Argument for the captors.

to the State of Alabama? Did he not know that Alaba a
was then in rebellion against the nation ? But2. If he were ever so loyal, aud if his narrative, in its last
elaborated and interlineated form, were true, it would be no
defence :
(a) The law of war denounces, as being a trading with
the enemy, the withdrawal by a citizen of this country of
any property without license, from the enemies' territory
after a considerable time has elapsed since the beginning of
hostilities.* In that case, this court held that goods purchased in England before hostilities, and shipped to the purchaser in this country by his agent, eleven months after the
declaration of war, were confiscable in a prize court.
()) In Mealier's affidavits his purpose of removing this
property "to a place of security, beyond the power and control
of the States in rebellion," is presented in such a way as that
an intention to return to his residence and business in Mobile is consistent with it; nor are there any facts alleged in
that document tending to show a dissolution of the com..
mercial establishment and domicil in Mobile (proved by
Flynn's deposition in preparatorio to have existed), prior to
or at the time of his sailing on this voyage, or any suspension of the mercantile pursuits in which le bad been engaged durinig the entire period of war. If the claimant was
a member of a house of trade in Mobile, engaged in the
enemy's commerce, then, independently of personal residence, a continued connection with such a house would operate in law to prevent any divestiture of that enemy quality
impressed upon him by residence and commerce during the
war in Alabama.
(c)Mealier alleges that this cotton, " had been produced
on his own plantation.'' Now, no doctrine is better settled
than that the produce of a person's own plantation in the
enemy's country is considered, in a prize court, as the property of the enemy, independent of his own personal residence
and occupation.
Every way the case is against the claimant.
Penniman's claim, The St. Lawrence, 9 Cranch, 121.

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. ("t

Argument for the claimant.

Mr. B. F. Butler, for the claimant: Mr. C. Cushing, being
allowed leave to appearfor the Treasury department:
I. Theproclamation of December 8th, 1863, was a proclaimed
license to every sort of enemy within its terms, those by construction as well as those in fact, those who by mere presence
and necessity had participated in the rebellion as well as to
those who were actual belligerents, to come within the Union
lines, with full restoration of all rights and property.*
No " right of third parties"-neitherjus ad rem norjus in
re-had " intervened" by a simple seizure; nor could any intervene, at best, before a decree of condemnation. The case
was not " a property case." Even if "a right" had intervened it was initiate only, and defeasible by the party's taking the oath of loyalty as soon as he could and, certainly,
before decree should fix the right.
Indeed the government has power to release all penalties
and forfeitures and all maritime captures, irrespective of the
claims of captors or informers, up to the moment of distribution of proceeds. Such is the settled doctrine of the prize
eourts.t
I. The remission by the Secretary of the Treasury.
1. The vessel was "'found at sea" and the property of an inhabitant of an insurgent State. When found, eo instanti,by
force of the statute she became forfeited to the United States,
and the title of the United States could not be divested
either by capture or by sale to an innocent purchaser.1
There is no indication of the acts referring to derelict or
abandoned vessels only. The vessel then comes within the
terms of the act.
But the cargo must go with the vessel and partake of its
character, especially where there is the same owner to both.
The remission is a license coupled with a final adjudica" The Herstelder, 1 Robinson, 117.
f The Elsebe, 5 Robinson, 172; H. M. S. Thetis, 3 Haggard, 231; French
Guiana, 2 Dodson, 150-158; The Diligentia, 1 Id. 404; The Nassau, Blatch.
ford's Prize Cases, 601 ; Fifty-two Bales of Cotton, Id. 310.
1 United States v. 1960 Bags 6f Coffee, 8 Cranch, 398; Same v. Grundy,
1 Id 351.

Vec. 1866.]

TIE GRAY JACKET.

357

Argument for the claimant.

tion of the bonafides of the licensee in his acts under it, and
must relate back to the inception of the voyage.
All licenses, either express or implied, are to be construed
with the greatest liberality.* Such is the present doctrine,
though not the old one.
2. This is a case of Treasury forfeiture, and not of maritime prize.t
This power of making remissions has been exercised by
every Secretary of the Treasury since the war. In the
Florida, by Secretary Chase; in the Cyclops, by Secretary
Fessenden; in the ease at bar, by Secretary McCulloch.
In the Revolution of 1775 the British Parliament passed
an act of non-intercourse and forfeiture of rebel property,
from which the act of July 13th, 1861, was drawn, and its
necessity was argued from the same consideration as in this
rebellion.1
The British act contained no relief from forfeitures under
it, so that there was the strongest disposition to hold the
captures maritime prizes; yet in every instance the forfeitures
were adjudged to the Exchequer and not to captors, or as
"Droits of Admiralty," save in the first case arising;§ and
in that case, the judge, Sir George Hay, publicly declared
that he repented of that decision.J Ever after the decisions
were made as forfeitures. We have caused the "Paper books
of the Appeals to the Lords" to be examined, and find all
cases were brought on the Instance side of the court, although
the act denominates the property as that of" open enemies,"
and to be proceeded against " as lawful prize."
The blockade, which was declared by proclamation of
April 19, 1861, is a pacific, and not a belligerent, blockade. It
is made so in terms:
*

The Jongo Klassina, 5 Robinson, 265; The Clio, 6 Id. 67; The Eolus,

I Dodson, 300; Duer on Insurance, 596.

t See on this subject generally the opinion of Treat, J., of the Eastern
District of Missouri, 8vo. pp. 78; Washington, Treasury Department, 186C.

t

See letter of Mr. Secretary Chase explanatory of act of 1861. Coxie.

Globe, 37th Cong., 1st sess., p 65.
, The Dickenson, Marriot's Decisions, page 1.

M
Marriot, 74', 197, 222.

Tnim GRAY JACKET.

[Slip. Ct

Argument for the claimant.

"To the protection of the public peace, and the lives and
property of quiet and orderly citizens pursuing their lawful
occupations, until Congress shall have assembled and deliberated
on the said unlawful proceedings, or until the same shall have
ceased, have further deemed it advisable to set on foot a blockade
of the ports within the States aforesaid, in pursuance of the
laws of the United States, and of the law of nations in sueb
case provided."
The blockade was rade specifically " under the laws of
the Uibted Stales and the laws of nations." A belligcrent blockade could have been only under the laws of nations, jutm
be/li, in such case provided.
Congress did deliberate thereon, and the act of July 13,
1861 (already quoted), was one result of these deliberations,
with authority to the President to make a new proclamation on the subject of commercial intercourse with the rebel-

lious States.*
A proclamation was issued August 16, 1861, reciting the
act of July 13, and declaring, among other things, that '' all
ships and vessels belonging in whole or in part to any citizen
or inhabitant of any of said States, found at sea, &c., will be
forfeited to the United States." It proceeded:
"And I hereby enjoin upon all district attorneys, marshals, and
officers of the revenue, and of the military and naval forces of the
United States, to be vigilant in the execution of said act, and in
the enfbrcement of the penalties and forfeitures imposed or
declared by itj leaving any party who may think himself aggrieved thereby to his application to the Secretary of the Treasury for the remission of any penalty or forfeiture, which the
said Secretary is authorized by law to grant, if,in his judgment,
the special ,ircumstances of any case shall require such remis
s1lo."

From notification of that proclamation the blockading
fleet became, by the authority of Congress and by order of
the President, employed on the revenue service, so far as
the acts of trade of tie insurgents were concerned, and
- 12 Stat. at Large, 257 ; Id. 319.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

GRAY JACKET.

359

Argument for the claimant.

a " blockading force" quoad neutral or hostile nations; the
rights and wrongs of the rebels to be adjudged by the municipal laws of their country, which alone were applicable to
them, and the neutral or hostile offenders to be tried by the
prize courts of the country under the law of nations, to which
alone they were amenable. This course was taken by Congress in order to meet meritorious cases liko that at bar,
instead of leaving the citizen to the rigors of blockade and
prize capture; " and when hardships shall arise provision is
made by law for affording relief under authority much more
competent to deal in such cases than this 'ourt ever can
The Executive has ordered " all military and naval officers,
district attorneys, and marshals, to be vigilant in enforcing
that act." Can a naval officer and a district attorney, by
colluding to bring the cause on the prize side instead of
the instance side of a Uniited States Admiralty Court, thus
avoiding their proclaimed duty, oust the United States of its
forfeiture and property, and involve it perhaps in serious inconvenience ?
On this whole subject Sir William Scott speaks with force.
and clearness in ie Elsebe :
"Prize is altogether a creature of the crown. No man has,
or can have, any interest but what he takes as the mere gift of
the crown. Beyond the extent of that gift he has nothing.
This is the principle of law on the subject, founded on the wisest
reasons. The right of making war and peace is exclusively in
the crown. The acquisitionsof war belong to the crown, and the
disposal of these acquisitions may be of the utmost importance
for the purposes both of war and peace. This is no peculiar
doctrine of our constitution; it is universally received as a
necessary principle of public jurisprudence by all writers on the
subject. Belle parta cedunt republica.
"And I must add, that though I have suffered a party to
stand before the court for the purpose of arguing the question,
f do not know the party who can legally stand before it, pray* Per Johnson, J., 1960 Bags of Coffee, 8 Cranch, 405.

t 5 Robinson, 173-192.

m

360

/

T ......

THE (tRAY JACKET.

rc

i

Pup.

'O-1

J

Argument for the claimant.

ing a condemnation to the crown, which the crown itself pub
licly renounces.
"When I state the position contended for on the -part of the
captors to be in effect this, that it shall be in the power of every
man who has made a capture,-of the pettiest commander of the
pettiest privateer,-to force on, in spite of all the prudence of the
crown, opposed to such an attempt, the discussion and decision
of the most delicate questions, the discussion and decision of
which may involve the country in the most ruinous hostilities,
I state aproposition that must awaken the apprehension of
every man who hears me as to the extent of the danger which
would attend the establishment of such a principle."

III. Is the case one for further proof? Opposing counsel
argue that it is now attempted to show a different case from
that presented by the proofs in preparatorio. This is not so;
though we may wish to show a fuller one.
The standing interrogatories are not adapted to reach the
facts in all cases of capture, in a war so special as ours.
What are these standing interrogatories?
To ascertain the legal status of a vessel in relation to her
neutrality, a limite d number of questions called " standing
interrogatories" were prepared many years ago by Sir William Scott, and have been adopted by the courts of the United
States without substantial change. No better illustration
of their occasional ill adaptation to elicit the facts necessary
to the understanding a capture arising under a rebellion,
such as was ours, can be had than the answer they cause
Meaher to give in reply to the first interrogatory when the
question is not read in connection therewith. On that answer
the captors found an argument of disloyalty. The answer
which the witness makes is:
"I was born in Maine; I live in Mobile, and have lived there
thirty years; I am a citizen of the State of Alabama, to which
I owe my allegiance."
The matter is explained when you see to what question
the answer is made. It is:

Dec. 1866.]

TnE

GRAY JACKET.

861

Argument for the claimant.

"Where were you born, and where do you now live, and how
long have you lived there? Of what prince or state are you a
subject or citizen, and to which do you owe allegiance?"
So it is with all the proofs in preparatorio. They are responsive to specific questiops, and are not adapted to get out
a history in a case where a history may well exist. Any exfoliation of the responsive facts-that which would make
the history-would, as responsive to these interrogatories.
be irregular.
We concede that, in a foreign war and a blockade of a
foreign port, where there are no circumstances of license or
withdrawal of friendly property to be proved, there would
be no such doubtful status of the res as would allow furthQr
proof. But the case, we repeat, is not one of this sort. It
is the case of an insurrection by certain people in certain
parts of one nation; a case where many people in the insurrectionary district remained loyal, and wished to leave the
district. Certainly a capture here presents a different case
from one of an enemy's vessel, and enemy property, of a
claimant enemy by domicil in enemy country, pursuing a
voyage in the interest of the enemy government.
The few discrepancies in the testimony ar-e easily reconcilable. Meaher testifies that he owns the whole vessel and
cargo. Flynn testifies that it belongs to Meaher, that the
owners were Meaher & Brother. The explanation is that
Meaher knew the fact that lie was sole owner, and that Flynn
did not know. Meaher knew that he put his own cotton
on board, and, although forced to consent to ship half on
government account, this did not change the ownership,
and it, in fact, was all his own. This he now ofiers to prove,
and has proved, to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the
Treasury.
So as to the paper found on board.
The document is not signed by the claimant, and therefore ought not to affect him unless it is shown that he agreed
to it. It is an offer by the Confederate government to furnish the whole cargo on joint account with Meaher Brothers,
upon certain conditions. This was under date of October

362

TH

GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

22d, 1863, more than two months before the voyage, while
the vessel was fitting out. That this contract was not accepted nor acted on is shown by Flynn :
" I understood they built this vessel expressly to carry their
own cotton to Havana, but they had to allow government an
interest of one-half in the cargo, otherwise they would not have
been permitted to leave. Meaher had necessarily to appear to
accept it."
The claimant makes no contradictory cases. The facts
which he seeks to prove are only those which he set forth
in his claim and answer, explained, and by proper filling up,
enlarged. No one of them is contradictory to anything he
testified to in his deposition in preparatorio.
IV.Is the historg, ifit were in proof,no defence ? We submit,
in opposition to the captor's counsel, that it is:
(a) The right of withdrawal of person and goods by a
citizen from hostile territory, has always been recognized,
and applauded as an act of loyalty. The only question has
been, what is a rasonaletime ? That question must always
be decided by the circumstances of each case. Notlb.g can
be deduced from rules in a foreign war, as applicabie to this
rebellion. The citizen had a right to suppose that his government would put down the rebellion within a reasonable
time, so that he would not be obliged to quit home and
property, as was hoped by all, and so wait. The Coufodcracy did not allow their citizens to leave it if the intention
so to do was known. All were retained for conscription
and taxation. Undeniably, a reasonable time is to be given
to collect property, but here the very collection of it tended
to lead to suspicion and confiscation. The war was carried
on by the rebels in an unusual and barbarous manner towards
persons disposed to be loyal. If this course of the rebels
furnishes no reason for relaxation of the rule by the courts,
it certainly tends to excuse delays, and accounts for inconsistencies in the conduct of the claimant not to be judged
by the rules of foreign warfare.*
The Ocean, 5 Robinson, 84.

Dec. 1866.]

Tim,

GRAY JACKET.

Argument for the claimant.

In the case of The S. Lawrence, cited on the other side,
although eleven months, under the facts, was considered an
inreasonable delay, it being a foreign war, yet the Supreme
Court granted motion for further proofs. In the case of a
rebellion the rule should be that it is a reasonable time,
waenever the withdrawal is made in good faith ; an issue to be
determined by the facts of each case.
(b)The captors assert that " an intention on the part of the
,aimant to return to his residence and business in Mobile
is consistent with the contents of this affidavit; and that
there are no facts in the affidavit tending to show any dissolution of the claimant's commercial establishment and domieil in Mobile prior to or at the time of his sailing on this
voyage, or any suspenson of the mercantile pursuits in which
he had been engaged during the war."
But the affidavit does set forth that the claimant desired
to " withdraw the property he was in possession of, or as
considerable a portion of it as was practicable, from the socalled Confederate States, to a place of security, and get
into such a position that he might realize the value of it and
return to the State of Maine, where his mother now lives,
and where lie has property and many relations and friends;
that with this object and intention, as well known to several
of his confidential friends, he built the steamer Gray Jacket
with his own means, with the design of lading her with cotton belonging to himself."
And ''that it was at, st his intention to have taken his
wife and cl-idren with hini. on board the said steamer, on
the said proposed voyage to Havana, but that lie was afterwards deterred from attempting to do so lest it should
strengthen the suspicion which already existed against him
in the minds of the rebel authorities, and prevent his getting
away at all, and that he at last unwillingly abandoned the
idea, and left them, after having made an arrangement with
his brother, J. M. Mealer, to send them as soon afterwards
as he could find a suitable opportunity to Iavana, where
they were to place themselves under the care of the corn-

364

TInE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimant.

mercial house of Santa Maria, with whom he, Timothy
Meahor, was to have made an arrangement."
(e) The res is ot enemy property. Being simply domiciled
in rebellions territory, without any act shown, does not mnake
a loyal citizen an enemy, within the legal definition of enemy,
without some declaratory act by his sovereign; certainly not
so as to remit his rights to be tried by the laws of nations in
a prize court.*
The property of rebels is not confiscable as prize of war,
but by forfeiture.Doing, at worst, only an enemy by construction of domicli-a quasi enemy-his status changed as soon as be formed
the intention of returning to his allegiance, and did any act
carrying out that intention.t
ie had escaped from the
enemy country with his property, and was on the high seas,
on his own deck, under the American flag, which he had aright to raise, having protected it through the rebellion.
His domicil co instante changed; he was no longer an enemy,
even by construction, lut an American citizen. His property, being enemy only because of his slatus, partook of the
change with him. The flag determined the character of the
vessel and cargo in absence of all papers.§
The question, in short, is, '"Shall the court be left to grope
among inferences, circumstances, misrecollections, or misconceptions of. witnesses, to find facts upon which to confiscate a loyal man's property, whep, by admitting further
proof, the claimant will prove, to the satisfaction of the
court, as he has done to one branch of the government, that
every answer or allegation that he has made is true, and
that lie was a loyal citizen, trying to take his property from
the grasp of the enemies of the government, who ought to
* Judge Treat's opinion, p. 24, citing opinions of Nelson and Swayne, JJ.;

The Dickenson, Alarriot's Decisions, 1-46; The Venus, 8 Cranch, 280, 294,
301.
t The William and Grace, Marriot, 76; The Rebecca, Id. 197-210; The
Renard, Id. 222-225.
$ Lawrence's Wheaton, 564-567; The Indian Chief, 8 Robinson, 17-22;
The Venus, 8 Cranch, 280.
0 The Vrow Elizabeth, 5 Robinson, 11.

Dec. 1866.]

THE GRAY JACKET.

365

Opinion of the court.

be aided and protected in so doing, and not an alien enemy,
whose property is to be condemned under the law of na,
tions ?"
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us by appeal from the District
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
In the night of the 30th of December, 1863, the steamer
Gray Jacket was discovered running out of Mobile Bay by
the gunboat Kennebec, one of the blockading fleet. The
darkness of the night enabled the steamer to avoid the pursuing vessel. In the morning she was seen endeavoring to
escape to the southward and eastward. The Kennebec fired
a gun across her bows. She hauled down her colors and
hove to. The captors took possession of her. 1Her cargo
was found to consist of about five hundred bales of cotton
and a few other articles of small value. She was put in
charge of a prize crew and sent to New Orleans for adjudication. The claimant, Meaher, was examined in preparatorio.
Ile states that he was born in Maine; he had lived thirty
years in Mobile; he was a citizen of Alabama, and owed
his allegiance to that State; le was captain of the Gray
Jacket, and owned the vessel and cargo; the vessel was
bound for Havana; he built her near Mobile; the cotton
with which she was loaded was raised in Alabama.
Flynn, the mate, was also examined. According to his
affidavit, she sailed under English colors; her machinery
had broken down, and she was in a disabled condition when
-aptured. He says, "She was taken running the blockade."
" The owners of the vessel were Captain Meaher
and brother."
.
.
"They also owned half the cargo.
The balance was for Confederate government account."
"I know the Gray Jacket, on the trip on which she
was captured, had attempted to sail covertly and secretly
from Mobile, then under a blockade. She could not have
!eft otherwise than secretly." . . . "J. M. and T. Meaher

366

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

owned the vessel and half the cargo. The Confederate government owned the other half."
Among the papers found on board was an agreement between the claimant and Meyers, a military officer and agent
of the rebel government, whereby it was stipulated that
"the government will furnish the whole cargo of cotton,
and will make over to the owners of the vessel one-half of
the cotton, in consideration of which the owners do agree
to deliver the other half' belonging to the government at
Tavana, free of' charge, except half of the expenses of
pressing and storing incurred at Mobile."
That " the said steamer is to return to Mobile, if practicable; if not, then to sonic other Confederate port; and the
government is to be allowed one-half' of the carrying capacity of the steamer on the return voyage," at rates specified.
And that "in the event of a partial loss of the outward
cargo, the portion of' cotton saved is to be equally divided
between the parties at the port of destination; and any loss
on the inward cargo to be settled on the principle of general
average, so far as the cargo is concerned." Meaher's affidavit in prcparatorio was taken on the 26th of February,
1864. It ignored the interest of his brother in the vessel
and cargo, an(d alleged the property of both to be in himself. .Itconcealed the ownership of half the cargo by the
rebel government and the contract between him and the
rebel military agent. Upon these subjects not a word was
uttered. On the 21st of March he filed an answer and
claim, which do not differ materially from his affidavit in
preparalorio.
The court ordered the paper to be stricken from the files,
but gave him leave to file an affidavit, which was accordingly
done on the 29th of August following. This affidavit sets
up an entirely new state of facts. According to its averments, lie never sympathized with nor gave any aid to the
rebellion ; the steamer was built to enable him to get away
with as much as possible of his property; he did not take
his family with him, lest it might excite suspicion and defeat
hi,,object; the rebel government furnished none of the cot.

Dec. 1866.]

Tii

GRAY JACKET.

367

Opinion of the court.

ton with which his vessel was laden; he was compelled to
agree that one-half of it should be taken on account of that
government, and also to assent to the provisions of the contract with the rebel military agent; otherwise, he would
not have been allowed to depart; it was his intention, upon
reaching IIavana, to claim all the cotton as his property,
and to appropriate the proceeds entirely to himself; on the
18th of March, 1864, he took the oath prescribed by the
President's proclamation of the 8th of' December, 1863 ; he
is not within any of its exceptions, and is entitled, by its
provisions, to the restoration of the property.
The court below condemaned the vessel and cargo as prize
of war, and the decree is before us for review.
In this court a motion was made at the hearing, and
argued at length, for an order for further proof; to enable
the claimant to'establish the facts set forth in the affidavit as
to his loyalty to the United States, and the motives and
object of his departure from Mobile with the vessel and
cargo, and also to enable him to bring before this court the
remission by the Secretary of the Treasury, bearing date of
the 26th of March, 1866, of all right and claim to the property as forfeited to the United States, '1 so far as such for..
feiture was incurred under the provisions of the act of July
13, 1861, and not otherwise."
The court consented at once to receive this paper without
further proof, and it is properly in the case.
The questions for our consideration are:
The effect ofI tle amnesty proclamation of the 8th of December, 1863, in connection with the oath of the claimant?
The propriety of making an order for further proof?
And whether the remission by the Secretary of the Treasury entitles the claimant to the restoration of the vessel and
cargo ?
The proposition as to the proclamation and oath was not
pressed in the argument here. If it were relied upon, the
answers are obvious and conclusive.
There is no satisfactory proof that the claimant is not in

368

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

one of the classes of excepted persons. His own affidavit
under the circumstances, is clearly insufficient to establisl
the negative. "Property cases, where the rights of third
persons shall have intervened," are excluded in terms by the
proclamation.
The proclamation is founded upon the act of July 17, 1862,
and has reference only to property subject to confiscation as
there denounced.
Both the statute and proclamation are wholly silent as to
maritime captures like the one before us, and neither has
any application to that class of cases. In no view of the subject can this proclamation be held to extinguish the liability
of a vessel and cargo running the blockade, and seized in
flagranle deliclo. It would be a strange result in such a case
if the subsequent oath of the claimant were allowed to
establish his innocence and compel the restitution of the
property.
This is not a proper case for an order for further proof.
The order is always made with extreme caution, and only
where the ends of justice clearly require it. The claimant
forfeited all right to aak it by the guilty concealment in his
first affidavit, and in his subsequent affidavit and claim. The
allowance would hold out the strongest temptation to subornation of perjury. There is nothing to warrant such an
exercise of our discretion. We are entirely satisfied with
the testimony in the case, and entertain no doubt of the correctness of the conclusions we draw from it. If the allegations of the claimant are true, he postponed his effort to
escape too long to derive any benefit from it. The law does
not tolerate such delay. The motion is overruled.
The order of the Secretary of the. Treasury does not affect
the case. It is limited in its terms to the rights of the United
States, arising from forfeiture under the act of July 13, 1861.
That act provides "that all goods and chattels, wares, and
merchandise, coming from a State or part of a State in rebellion" into the other parts of the United States,....
"by land or water," . .
. . " shall, together with the

Dec. 1866.]

THE GRAY JACKET.

369

Opinion of the court.

....
"be forvessel or vehicle conveying the same,"
feited to the United States." It contains nothing as to goods
and vessels going from a rebel to a foreign or neutral port.
The Gray Jacket was not proceeding to a loyal State. It
is true that after this objection was taken by the AttorneyGeneral to the authority of the Secretary to interpose, the
claimant amended his petition by interlining the averment
that he was attempting to take the property "into the loyal
States by way of Havana, if his vessel should prove fit for
the voyage." But this does not recall what he had before
sworn, nor change the facts as they are disclosed in the
record. In his first affidavit he said, "' T1'h voyage began in
Mobile and was to have ended at Havana." " In case we
had arrived at our destined port, I think I should have reshipped the cargo to some pprt where I (0ould have obtained
a better price for it than I could obtain there." The mate
also testified " that the voyage began at Mobile and was to
have ended at Havana." The claimant in his affidavit speaks
of going to Havana, but was silent as to going beyond there,
to any of the loyal States; and nowhere disclosed such a
purpose until he amended his petition to the Secretary under
the pressure of the occasion. We are satisfied that at the
time of the capture no such intention existed. This brings
the vessel and cargo within the exception prescribed by the
Secretary. The order does not reach the case. But if the
order of the Secretary were unqualified that the property
should be released and discharged, the result would be the
same. The power of the Secretary to remit forfeitures and
penalties is defined and limited by law. The jurisdiction is
a special one and he may not transcend it. Iflhe do, his act
is void. le has no power to remit in any case of property
captured as maritime prize of war. The subject lies wholly
beyond the sphere of his authority. The liability of the
property is irrespective of the status domiedii, guilt or innocence of the owner. If it come from enemy territory, it
bears the impress of enemy property. If it belong to a loyal
citizen of the country of the captors, it is nevertheless as
much liable to condemnation as if owned by a citizen or subvol.

v.

24

370

THE GRAY JACKET.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ject of the hostile country cr by the hostile government
itself. The only quaiification of these rules is, that where,
upon the breaking out of hostilities, or as soon after as possible, the owner escapes with such property as he can take
with him, or in good faith thus early removes his property,
with the view of putting it beyond the dominion of the hostile power, the property in such cases is exempt from the
liability which would otherwise attend it.
Such, with this limitation, is the settled law of this and of
all other prize courts.
The case before us, as we view it, has no redeeming feature. It has no claim to the benefit of the exception we have
mentioned. The vessel and cargo were properly condemned
as enemy property and for breach of the blockade. There
is nothing persuasive to a different conclusion.
The decree of the court below is
AFFIRMED.

THE GRAY JACKET
(M oTIoN.)
As a general rule, where the United States is a party to a cause and is represented by the Attorney-General, or the Assistant Attorney-General, or
by special counsel employed by the Attorney-General, no counsel can
be heard in opposition on behalf of any other of the departments of the
government.
f'he rule departed from in this instance, the circumstances being special.

THE case of the Gray Jacket, reported on the last preced-

ing pages, was argued partly on one occasion and partly on
another, Mr. Eamcs, who spoke for the captors, having been
taken suddenly and, is the unfortunate issue proved, fatally
ill while addressing the court, and the case having been adjourned in the midst of the argument.
The ease being subsequently called with a view of seeing
how far counsel were ready to go on, it was mentioned that

Dec. 1866.]

TnE

GRAY JACKET.

371

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Cashing would appear in behalf of the Treasury Department, to justify the remission, which the preceding report
shows had been granted, of the right accrued to the United
States and captors by a decree of condemnation of the vess',:l
as prize. Some remark being made by the court as to the
circumstance that the United States were on the side of the
captors while the Treasury Department appeared in an antagonistic position, and a doubt being expressed whether it
was quite allowable that the Treasury should thus appear,
Mr. Cashing referred the matter of his taking part to the
pleasure of the court; observing only that he was prepared
to speak in support of the act of the Secretary of the Trea2ury, if desired.
Before the case came to be finally argued in conclusionThe CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court
on this point:
The court has considered the question whether counsel
shall be heard in this cause on behalf of the Treasury Department, and has instructd me to say that in causes where
the United States is a party, and is represented by the Attorney-General or the Assistant Attorney-General, or special
counsel employed by the Attorney-General, no counsel can
be heard in opposition on behalf of any other of the departments of the government.
In the present case, however, the argument has doubtless
proceeded under the impression at the bar that counsel
would be heard on behalf of the Treasury Department, and
the court is desirous of all the light that can be derived from
the fullest discussion. The counsel for the Treasury Department may be heard, therefore, if he sees fit, on behalf of the
claimant, and two hours will be allowed for the argument.
without prejudice to the time which remains to the counsel
who opened the cause, for reply to the Attorney-General
and the counsel for the captors.

