Dec. 1866.]

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.
Statement of the case.

treaty was to hedge the lands around with guards and restrictions, so as to preserve them for the permanent homes
of the Indians. In order to accomplish this object, they
must be relieved from every species of levy, sale, and forfeiture-from a levy and sale for taxes, as well as the ordinary judicial levy and sale.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas in all three
cases was REVERSED, and the causes remanded, with directions
to enter a j udgment in conformity with the opinions above
given in the several cases.

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.
1. Where Indians, being in possession of lands, their ancient and native
homes, the enjoyment of which, "without disturbance by the United
States," has been secured to them by treaty with the Federal government, with the assurance that." the lands shall remain theirs until they
choose to sell them," the State in which the lands lie has no power to
tax them, either for ordinary town and county purposes or for the special purpose of surveying them and opening roads through them.-The
case of The Kansas Indians (supra, p. 787), approved.
2. A statute of a State authorizing a sale of such lands for taxes so laid, is
void, even though the statute provide that "no sale, for the purpose of
collecting the tax, shall, in any manner, affect the right of the Indians
to occupy the land."
3. Where Indians, under arrangements approved by the United States, agree
to sell their lands to private citizens, and to give possession of them at
the expiration of a term of years named, a taxation of the lands before
the efflux of the term is premature; even though a sale for the nonpayment of the taxes might not take place until after the time when,
if they fulfilled their agreements, the Indians would have left the land;
and even though any sale would be st'.ject to the proviso named in the
preceding paragraph.
4. A deed under a sale for taxes, and purporting to convey the lands to the
purchaser, even with the qualification of such a proviso as that in the
third paragraph, would, in law, be a disturbance of the Indian tribe.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of New York; the case
being thus:
In 1786, qnd before the adoption, therefore, of the Fed-

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

eral Constitution, the State of Massachusetts, which laid
claim to four tracts of land in Western New York then occupied by native Indians (Senecas, chiefly), and known respectively as the Alleghany, Cattaraugus, Buflhlo Creek, and
Tonawanda reservations, entered, at the conclusion of some
disputes, into an agreement with the State of New York by
which New York ceded to Massachusetts, and her grantees,
in fee, the right of pre-emption from those Indians and all estate in the reservations, except jurisdiction and sovereignty,
which it was agreed should belong to the State of New
York. By the fourth article of this compact New York
stipulated thus:
"The said Indian reservations, so long as they shall remain
the property of Massachusetts, shall be exempt from all taxes whatever, and no general or State tax shall be charged on the lands of
the said reservations thereafter to be granted by Massachusetts,
or on the occupants or proprietors of such lands, until fifteen
years after the confirmation of such grants in the manner mentioned in the compact; but the said lands, and the occupants
thereof, during the said period shall be subject to town and county
charges or taxes only."
Before the adoption of the.Constitution, the then United
States, and after its adoption, the Federal government, made
several treaties with these Indians;* the Treaty of Canandaigua, November 11, 1794, being one,t by which the land
in those reservations were acknowledged to belong to them,
the sai l Indians, and by which it was agreed that the United
States would " never claim " the same, nor disturb the Indians, and that the land should " remain theirs until they chose
to sell the same to people of the United States."
In 1791 Massachusetts parted with her rights in these reservations, and the same had, in 1838, become vested in Ogden & Fellows. In that year, 1838, a treaty was made be.
* Treaty of Fort Stanwix, Oct. 22, 1784, 7 Stat. at Large, 15; Treaty of

Fort Harmar, Jan'y 9, 1788, Id. 33; Treaty of Genesee, Sept. 15, 1797, Id.

601 ; Treaty of Buffalo Creek, June 30, 1802, Id. 70; Treaty of January 15
1848, Id. 530; Treaty of May 20, 1842, Id. 586.
J 7 Stat. at Larae, 41.

De,.. 1866.]

THE NEw YORK

INDIANS.

763

Statement of the case.

tween the United States and the Indians, providing for the
removal of the latter to the west of the Mississippi River;
and at the same treaty a deed of conveyance was executed
between the Seneca nation and Ogden & Fellows in fee, as
joint tenants of the four reservations. The treaty provided for the removal of the Indians within five years. It
was to become obligatory on the parties only after being
proclaimed by the President. And as this proclamation was
not made till April 4,,1840, no right (as the treaty was construed by the officers of the Federal government, a construction in which Ogden & Fellows acquiesced) accrued to
Ogden & Fellows till April 4, 1845.
Before the expiration of these five years, differences arose
between the Indians and Ogden & Fellows, and in order to
settle them, a new treaty was made in 1842 between the United States and the Indians; and a deed was executed between
Ogden & Fellows and the Indians, by which it was agreed
that the Indians should remain in possession of two of the
reservations, to wit, the Alleghany and Cattarangus, with
the same right and title in all things that they had possessed
before the sale. The two others (the Buffalo Creek and Tonawanda) being, by the deed, ceded to Ogden & Fellows.
The Indians remained in possession accordingly of the
two retained reservations.
In 1840, May 9th, the legislature of New York passed an
act, by which it authorized a highway tax to be assessed
upon the Alleghany and Cattaraugus reservations (the two
still in possession of, and subsequently agreed to be retained
by, the Indians); and the tax was assessed.
In the following year, May 4th, 1841, the same legislature
authorized the assessment of other taxes for making roads
upon those same two reservations, and on one of the others
also, the Bufllo Creek.
This act of 1841 contained eight sections.
The first authorized the board of supervisors of Erie
County to appoint commissioners to lay out, open, and construct roads across the Cattaraugus reservation lying within
the county, and the same in respect to the supervisors of the

THE NEw. YORK INDIANS.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.

county of Cattaraugus, over the Alleghany reservation in
that county.
The second provided for the survey of these roads by the
commissioners, and conferred upon the supervisors the power
to direct therepair and improvement of them.
The third provided for raising money to defray the expenses
of constructing and repairing the roads, and for the building
of bridges, and repairing the same, by,levying for the years
1841, 1842, and 1843, on the lands in the Cattaraugus reservation, lying in the county of Erie, the sum of $4000, and
on the Alleghany $4000, and on the Cattaraugus, lying
within the county of Cattaraugus, $1000 each year.
The fourth provided for the survey and maps of the reservations, with a view to the taxation.
The fifth section provided for the sale of the lands in case
of default in the payment of the taxes. It contained, however, this proviso:
"PRoVIDED, That no sale for the purpose of collecting said taxes
shall in any manner affect the right of the Indians to occupy said
lands."
The eighth or last section was thus-:
"1The taxes hereby authorized may be imposed, assessed, levied, and collected as directed by this act, notwithstanding the
occupation of the said lands, or parts or portions thereof, by the Indians, or byany other person or persons; and the failure to extinguish the right of the Indians, or to remove them from the possession thereof, shall not impair the validity of said taxes, or prevent
the collection thereof."
The act of 1840 did not contain the proviso, above given,
to the fifth section of this act of 1841.
Under these acts, the county supervisors assessed taxes to
the amount of $16,000, or more. One of the tracts afterwards retained by the Indians (the Cattaraugus), and one of
those agreed at the expiration of the five years to be ceded
to Ogden & Fellows, were, in addition to the beforesaid special tax, assessed; also, in 1840, 1841, 1842, and 1843, with
ordinary town and county taxes. The taxes of no kind being
paid. the lands were sold.

Dec. 1866.]

TiE NEW YoRK INDIANS.
Argument in support of the tax,

A case being agreed on, Fellows and others (Ogden being
dead) brought suit in the Supreme Court of New York
against the controller of the State and the purchaser at the
tax sales praying that the assessments might be declared
void. That court gave judgmnent for the defendants; a j udgment which the Court of Appeals of the State affirmed.
This judgment was now here for review;.the, question being
whether the State of New York had power to tax the Indian
reservations in that State, especially the Cattaraugus and
Alleghany.

Mr. Martindale,.Attorney-General of New York, for the appellees, and in support of the right to tax:
The Indians' title is a right of occupancy, use, and enjoyment, and not of alienation.* It does not include the whole
property in the land. The " ultimate-fee" to these reservations which carries with it the right of pre-emption, is the
real property, and this has hitherto proved far more valuable, in market and in treaties, than the Indian right of occupancy.
Now the assessment of taxes authorized by the law of,
1841 does not relate to, or affect the Indians' title. On the
contrary, that title-the. right of occupancy-is by the
tifth section expressly excepted from the operation of the
statute.
The taxes were not authorized by the legislature until
after the lands were conveyed by the Indians to our own
citizens, and after the purchase had been approved by the
general government. Under these circumstances, the intent presumable, not less than the intent expressed, was to
impose and enforce the tax in respect to the interests rightfully
cequired by our citizens, and it is only on that assumption that
the plaintiff has any standing in court.
The assessments complained of are made then, in fact,
against the right and property of Fellows, to which the treaty
The Cherokee Nation v. The State of Georgia, 6 Peters, .1 ; Worcbster
v. The State of Georgia, 6 Id 615; Mitchel v. The United States, 9 Id. 71.

THE NEw YORK INDIANS.

[S lip. ot.

Opinion of the court.

of Canandaigu t, 1794, had no relation. His title is, without
doubt, liable to taxation by State authority.*
In addition, the fourth article of the compact of 1786, between New York and Massachusetts, admits the right to impose town and county taxes, of which class the taxes here
laid are.t

Mi. J. 11. Reynolds, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The principal authority to tax is derived from two acts of
the legislature, passed May 9, 1840, and May 4, 1841. As
the act of 1840 was held by the court below void as respects
these reservations, we will, for the present, dismiss it.
Theact of 1841 contains eight sections.
[His honor here stated the first five sections of the act in
the words already given on pages 763-4.]
The eighth section provides that the taxes may be assessed,
levied, and collected as directed by the act, notwithstanding
the occupation of the lands by the Indians. The failure to
extinguish the right of the Indians, or to remove them from
the possession, shall not impair the validity of said taxes or
prevent the collection.
This last section furnishes, doubtless, a solution of what
we must otherwise regard as a very free, if not extraordinary, exercise of power over these reservations and the rights
of"the Indians, so long possessed and so frequently guaranteed by treaties. These treaties are historical and need not
be referred to, beginning in 1784 and coming down to 1842.
That of 1794, entered into at Canandaigua, New York, may
be cited as a specimen. Third article, " The United States
acknowledge all the land within the aforementioned boundaries (which include the- reservations in question) to be the
property of the Seneca nation, and the United States will
never claim the same nor disturb the Seneca nation, . . .
* McCulloch v. The State of Maryland, 4 Wheaton, 429; People v. Mayor,
&a., of Brooklyn, 4 New York, 426, 427.
f See Opiniion of Denio, J., in Fellowsv. Den.,iston, 23 New York, 425.

Dec. 1866.]

Ti

NEW YORK INDIANS.

767

Opinion of the court.

in the free use and enjoyment thereof; but it shall remain
theirs until they choose to sell the same to the people of the
United States, who have the right to purchase."
We will now refer to the explanation of this law, which,
it is admitted, is the first (except that of 1840) ever passed
by the legislature of New York to tax these Indian reservations.
By the treaty of 1888 the Seneca nation on these reservations agreed to remove to the west of the Mississippi River,
and, at the same time, with the consent of the United States,
sold their lands to Ogden & Fellows, who held the pre-emptive right, derived from Massachusetts, and executed a conveyance of the same. The treaty provided for the removal
within live years. It was proclaimed April 4, 1840. Before
the expiration of the five years, difficulties arose between
the grantees and the Indians, which resulted in a new treaty,
20th May, 1842, between the United States and the Seneca
nation, when it was agreed that the deed embracing these
two reservations should be cancelled, and the Indians remain
as before with all their original rights. The words are:
The said nation shall continue in the occupation and enjoyment of the whole of the said two several tracts of land,
called the Cattaraugus reservation and the Alleghany reservation, with the same right and title in all things as they
had and possessed therein immediately before the sale of
said reservation."
Now, it will be seen that this act of New York, which was
passed in 1841, was passed at a time when the grantees,
under the treaty of 1838, had taken the title in fee, but before the expiration of the five years. And it was doubtless
assumed, which we think a mistake, that the whole title
being in the grantees, the State, notwithstanding the possession of the Indians, might enter upon the reservations in the
exercise of its internal police powers, and deal with them as
with any other portion of its territory. Hence the eighth section directing that taxes may be imposed, assessed, or levied
and collected, notwithstanding the occupation of the Indians%
or the failure to extinguish their right, or to remove them

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

from the possession, and declaring that the neglect should
not impair the validity of the taxes or prevent the collec
tion.
This explanation is. due to the character of the State, and
removes the inference that might otherwise be drawn, that
the legislature were encouraging, if not authorizing, a direct
interference by the owners of the right of pre-eniption with
these ancient possessions and occupations, secured by the
most sacred of obligations of the Federal government.
It is provided, however, that the execution of these laws
shall not disturb or affect the right of the Indians in their
occupation of the reservations, and a clause in the fifth section is referred to as conclusive of this position. "But no
sale for the purpose of collecting said taxes shall in any man ner affect the right of the Indians to occupy said lands."
ft is true that this clause undertakes to save this right, which
the act of 1840 did not; but the rights of the Indians do not
depend on this or any other statutes of the State, but upon
treaties, which are the supreme law of the land; it is to
these treaties we must look to ascertain the nature of these
rights, and the extent of them.
'Ithas already been shown that the United States have
.acknowledged the reservations to be the property of the
Seneca nation-that thby will never claim them nor disturb
this nation in their free use and enjoyment, and that they
shall remain theirs until they choose to sell them. These
are the guarantees given by the United States, and which
her faith is pledged to uphold. Now we have seen that
this law, taxing the lands in the reservations, authorizes
the county authorities to enter upon them4 survey and lay
out roads, construct and repair them, construct and repair
bridges, assess and collect taxes to meet the expenses, and
survey the lands for the purpose of making the assessments,
and in pursuance of these powers the proper officers of the
counties have assessed upon them large sums for the years
1840, 1841, 1842, and 1843.
The answer to all this interference with the possession,
and occupation, and exercise of authority is, that the sale

Dec. 1866.]

THE

sNEw
YORK INDIANS.

769

Opinion of the court.

of the lands in default of payment of the taxes shall not
" affect the right of occupancy of the Indians." We are of
opinion that this is not a satisfactory answer.
We have iooked through all the treaties from 1784 down
to the present time, and find but one of them in which any
right is stipulated to enter upon the lands reserved to construct roads. That is the treaty of 1794, in which the Seneca
nation cede to the United States the right to make a wagonroad from Fort Schlosser to Lake Erie, as far south as Buffao Creek.
A clause in the adjustment of the dispute between New
York and Massachusetts, in respect to these and other lands,
has been referred to, which provides that no, general or State
tax shall be charged or collected from the lands thereafter
to be granted by Massachusetts, or on occupants or proprietors of such lands until fifteen years have elapsed after confirmation, &c., "but that the lands so granted, and the occupants thereof, shall, during the said period, be subject to
town and county charges, or taxes only." We suppose this
provision had no relation to the Indian occupation, or Indian
occupants, for the two States possessed no power to deal
with Indian rights or title. They were dealing exclusively
with the pre-emption right after the Indian title was extinguished, and with the government and jurisdiction over the
territory. The clause doubtless related to the condition of
these lands in case the Indian title should be extinguished
as to the whole or any part of them within the fifteen years'
exemption. At all events, whatever may be the true construction, it can in no way affect the Indian occupants. The
commissioners had no power over them.
The question of the taxation of Indian lands, while in
their tribal organization, by the State authorities, has been
before us this tdrm in several cases from the State of Kansas,
and after a very full consideration of the subject the power
was denied.* We refer to the opinions in these cases as
The Kansas Indians; supra, p. 737; the last preceding-case.
VOL. V.

49

770

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

rendering any further examination of the subject unnecessary.
The tax imposed on the Buffalo reservation in 1840, 1841,
1842, and 1843, is not distinguishable from that imposed on
the Allegliany and Cattaraugus reservations. The Indians
were still in their ancient possessions and occupancy, and
till removed by the United States were entitled to the undisturbed enjoyment of them.
On looking into the record it appears that these reservations, besides the special taxation referred to, have been
taxedl for the years 1840, 1841, 1842, and 1843, for the ordinary town and county charges in each year.
If I understand the opinion of the learned judge of the
Court of Appeals, these taxes, as it respects the Buffllo reservation, are sustained on the ground that the Indians had
parted with their title to Ogden & Fellows by the treaties
and conveyances of 1838 and 1842, and that the whole title
was in the grantees, though the period for the removal of
the Indians had not expired, but would before the sales
could take place for default in payment or the purchaser be
entitled to the possession.
We have already given the answer which we think satis.hetory to this ground in support of the judgment below.
Until the Indians have sold their lands, and removed from
them in pursuance of the treaty stipulations, they are to be
regarded as still in their ancient possessions, and are in under their original rights, and entitled to the undisturbed enjoyment of them. This was the effect of the decision in the
ease of Pyellows v. Blacksmith.* The time for the surrender
of the possession, according to their consent given in the
treaty, had not expired when these taxes were levied. The
period withiin which the removal was to take place, under
the treaty of 1838, was five years from the time it went into
effect. It was not proclaimed till 1840, and under that of
1842 the time did not expire till 1846. The taxation of the
lands was premature and illegal.
*

19 Howard, 866.

Dec. 1866.]

TIm NEw YORK

INDIANS.

771

Opinion of the court.

It will be seen on looking into the general laws of the
State imposing taxes for town and county charges, as well
as into the special acts of 1840 and 1841, that the taxes are
imposed upon the lands in these reservations, and it is the
lands which are sold in default of payment. They are dealt
with by the town and county authorities in the same way in
making this assessment, and in levying the same, as. other
real property in these subdivisions of the State , We must
say, regarding these reservations as wholly exempt from
State taxation, and which, as we understand the opinion of
the learned judge below, is not denied, the exercise of this
authority over them is an unwarrantable interference, inconsistent with the original title of the Indians, and offensive
to their tribal relations.
The tax titles purporting to convey these lands to the purchaser, even with the qualification suggested that the right
of occupation is not to be affected, may well embarrass the
occupants and be used by unworthy persons to the disturbance of the tribe. All agree that the Indian right of occu
pancy creates an indefeasible title to the reservations that
may extend from generation to generation, and will cease
only by the dissolution of the tribe, or their consent to sell
to the party possessed of the right of pre-emption. He is
the only party that is authorized to deal with the tribe in
respect to their property, and this with the consent of the
government. Any other party is an intruder, and may be
proceeded against under the twelfth section of the act of 30th
June, 1834.*
We are gratified to find that in 1857 the legislature of
New York passed a law declaring, in substance, that no tax
shall thereafter be assessed on either of the two reservations
(Alleghany and Cattaraugus), or on-any part of them, so long
as they remain the property of the Seneca natioi, and that
all acts'of the State conflicting with the provisions of this
section are hereby repealed.t
Our conclusion is, that the whole of the taxes assessed upon
*4 Stat. at Large, 780.

t 1 R. S. P., 907, j 10.

772

SUPERVISORS

V.

SCHENCK.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

the three reservations (Buffalo Creek, Alleghany, and Cattaraugus), are illegal, and void as in conflict with the tribal
rights of the Seneca nation as guaranteed to it by treaties
with the United States.
The judgment must therefore be REVERSED, and the cause
remanded, with directions to enter a judgment IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

SUPERVISORS V. SCHENCK.
The levy of a tax and payment of interest by the proper county authorities,
validate§, in the hands of bond fide holders for value, county bonds,
issued in their origin, irregularly, as ex gr. in virtue of a popular vote
ordered by a " County Court," instead of one ordered by the " Board
of Supervisors ;" the vote, however, and other proceedings having beer.
in all respects other than the sourc6 of order, regular. [In this case the
tax had been levied and the interest paid by the county for nine years
before it was set up that the bonds were void.]
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Northern District of
Illinois; the case being thus:
An Illinois statute, passed in 1849, authorized the "county
court" of counties wishing to subscribe to.stock in railroads,
to make subscriptions and to issue bonds. . But the statute
provided that no subscription should be made or bonds
issued whereby any debt should be created by the county
court, except after an election to be held in a mode prescribed in the statute, and after at such election two-thirds
of the qualified voters of the county had voted to have it.
In 1851-that is to say, two years after the statute just
mentioned had been passed-the legislature passed another
statute, called The bwnship Organization Law, thus:

"No county under this organization shall possess or exercise
any corporate powers, except such as are enumerated in this act, or
shall be specially given by law, or shall be necessary to the ex.
ercise )fthe powers so enumerated or given.

