LicENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct,

Syllabus.

no interest in the land, never applied for any, either to Spain
or Mexico, and was content with a permission to occupy it
for the purposes of pasturage.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the case
r6manded to the District Court of California, with directions
to enter an order
DISMISSING THE PETITION.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in this case, nor take any
part in its decision.

LICENSE TAX CASES.
UNITED STATES V. VASSAR.
9
V. SCHUREMAN.
it

v.
v.

GREEN.
BEATTY.

V. SHELLY.

v.

BOWEN.

99

0v.SWAIN.

49

V. CRAFT.

ic

V. CRAFT.

1. Licenses under the act of June 30, 1864, .'to provide internal revenue to
support the government, &c." (13 Stat. at Large, 223), and the amendatory acts, conveyed to the licensee no authority to carry on the licensed
business within a State.
2. The requirement of payment for such licenses is only a mode of imposing
taxes on the licensed business, and the prohibition, undei%penalties,
against carrying on the business without license is only a mode of enforcing the payment of such taxes.
8. The provisions of the act of Congress requiring such licenses, and imposing penalties for not taking out and paying for them, are not contrary to the Constitution or to public policy.
4. The provisions in the act of July 13, 1866, "to reduce internal taxation,
&c." (14 Stat. at Large, N3), for the imposing of special taxes, in lieu of
requiring payment for licenses, removes whatever ambiguity existed in
the previous laws, and are in harmony with the Constitution and public
policy
5. The recognition by the acts of Congress of the power and right of tho

Dee, 1866.]

LICENSE TAX CASES.
Statement of the case.

States to tax, control, or regulate any business carried on within its
limits is entirely consistent with an intention on the part of Congress
to tax such business for National purposes.
CONGRESS, by an internal revenue act of 1864, subsequently
amended, enacted that no persons should be engaged in certain trades or businesses, including those of selling lottery
tickets and retail dealing in liquors, until they should have
obtained a " license"* from the United States.
By an amendatory act of 1866, the word "special tax"
was substituted in the place of the word license in the former
act.
A party exercising any business for which a " license
was necessary, or on which the "special tax" was imposed,
without having obtained the former or paid the latter, was
made liable, under the acts respectively, both to the tax and
to fine or imprisonment, or both. By the two principal
acts, respectively, it was provided that no license so granted,
or special tax so laid, should be construed to authorize any
business within a State prohibited by the laws thereof, or so
as to prevent the taxation by the State of the same business.
In New York and New Jersey, selling lottery tickets, as
in Massachusetts retailing liquors (except in special cases,
not important to be noted), is, by statute, wholly forbidden. Such selling or dealing is treated as an offence against
public morals; made subject to indictment, fine, and imprisonment; and in one or more of the States named, high
vigilance is enjoined on all magistrates to discover and to
bring the offenders to justice; and grand juries are to be
specially charged to present them.
In this condition of statute law, National and State, seven
cases were brought before this court.
They all arose under the provisions of the internal revenue acts relating to licenses for selling liquors and dealing
in lotteries, and to special taxes on the latter business.t
The first came before the court upon a certifi~ate of di.
Sep 13 Stat. at 'Large, 248, 249, 252, 472, 485; 14 Id. 113, 116, 137, 301.
t 13 Stat. at Large, 252, 472, 485, and 14 Id. 116, 137, 301-2.
*

:LICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

vision from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York.
It was argued at the last te'm, with the five next cases,
which came here upon writs of error to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of New Jersey.
During the present term another case of the same general character, coming from the Circuit Court for the District of Massachusetts, was argued, with two others, simiNr,
except in one particular, to the New York and New Jersey
cases, and coming here upon a certificate of division from
the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York,
In the first case, Vassar, a citizen and resident of
the
State of New York, was indicted for selling lottery tickets
in that State without having first obtained and paid for a
license under the internal reVenue acts of Congress. He
demurred to the indictment, and the division of opinion
arose upon the question presented by the demurrer and
joinder.
In the five cases from New Jersey, citizens and residents
of that State were severally indicted for the same offence.
They set up, by way of plea, the statute of New Jersey prohibiting the business, for carrying on which, without obtaining a license and payment of the required duty, they were
indicted. The district attorney demurred to each of these
pleas, and in each case there was a j udgment for the defendants upon demurrer and joinder.
In the case from Massachusetts, the defendant was indicted for carrying on the business of retailing liquors
without license, to which indictment there was a demurrer.
A statement of facts was agreed on to the effect that the
defendant was a retail dealer as charged, and that this business was prohibited by the laws of the commonwealth. And
the division of' opinion occurred on the question presented
by the pleadings and this agreed statement.
The'general question in these cases was: Can the defendants be legally convicted upon the several indictments found
against them for not having complied with the acts of Congress by taking out and paying for the required licensesto

Dee. 1866.]

LICENsE TAX CASES.

465

Argument for the defendants.

carry on the business in which they were engaged, such business being wholly prohibited by the laws of the several
States in which it was carried on ?
In one of the two remaining cases the defendant was indicted for being engaged in the business of a lottery dealer,
and in the other for being engaged in the business of a lottery ticket dealer, in New York, without having paid the
special tax required by law. In each case there was a demurr'er and joinder in demurrer. The division of opinion
occurred upon the pleadings, and the question certified was
the same in each case.
In these two cases, therefore, the general question was
Could the defendants be legally convicted upon an indictment for being engaged in a business on which a special
tax is imposed by acts of Congress, without having paid
such a special tax, notwithstanding that such business was,
and is, wholly prohibited by the laws of New York?
The different cases were argued here for the different defendants by different counsel, Mr. IV. 1T. Evarts representing the defendants in the New York cases, Mr. Senott the
defendant in the case from Massachusetts, and Mr. Woodbury
(by brief), one of the defendants in the cases, each like the
other, from New Jersey.
Argument for the defendants:
The provisions of the acts of Congress under which these
indictments are found, if regarded as legislation for the suppression and punishment of crime, which selling lottery tickets
is regarded in New York and New Jersey to be, as retailing
liquor is also regarded in Massachusetts, would be consistent with morality, but, being beyond the competency of
Congress, under the Constitution of the United States,
would be void; for no question can be made that the whole
jurisdiction over domestic crimes and misdemeanors within
its territory rests with each State.
The validity and the construction, therefore, of the acts
of Cong;ess, the violation of which, within the States of
New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts, is imputed to
VOL. V.

80

1

466

LICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the defendants.

the defendants as a crime, must depend upon considerations
appropriate to these acts as Revenue Laws.
How, in this aspect, are they to be regarded ?
1. Congress cannot, constitutionally, punish for a refusal to
pay for a license to comn.iit crime, or constitutionally levy a
tax for the privilege of committing it. Such a mode of raising revenue would be palpably against public policy. It
matters not whether the crime or offence was 2nalum in se
or mahlm prolibium. Vending lottery tickets and vending
liquors appear to be regarded in some of the States,-perhaps from the consequences to which vending them often
lead-as mala in se. But whether or not, with the States,not with Congress,-rests (confessedly, we supp.ose) a complete and exclusive right to say whether such acts are criminal or not.
2. The various acts of New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts, on the subject of dealing in lotteries and retailing
liquor, were perfectly known to Congress; and it is apparent
that the fram¢ and purpose of the scheme of taxation made
by Congress in regard to the two matters iiow before the
court, assume the business of lotteries and vending liquors
to be open and lawful pursuits, in the gains of which the
Federal government may rightfully participate, and which
can endure the regulation in protection of the tax imposed,
which these provisions of law establish, and yet yield the
revenue sought.
But such a scheme of taxation appjied to communities
whose exclusive and paramount legislation proscribes the
taxed pursuit as common and public nuisances, imputes
.every step in such pursuit as a crime, and punishes every
transaction out of which the tax is raised by fine and imprisonment, and requires every grand jury to be specially
charged to inquire into every perpetration of these crimes,
is an absurdity.
If the acts of Congress had, in terms, provided "that no
person should, within the diffbrent States of New York,
New Jersey, and Massachusetts, perpetrate the crime ot sell.
ing lottery tickets or liquor, without having first paidto the

Dec. 1866.]

LICENSE TAX CASES.

467

Argument for the defendants.

United States $100, and registered his name and the place
where he intended to perpetrate these crimes, and given
bond that he would account to the United States for a fair
share of the lucre which the crimes brought him," &c.,-ot
all this were expressed in the acts of Congress, it would
have been no more a taxation of crime than it is now asserted to be in -reference to these different States by the attempts made in the courts below to punish for the non-impetration of a license or to enforce the collection of the tax.
Suppose that a State, while proscribing and punishing all
dealing in liquor or in lottery tickets, should enact as its law
the scheme of taxation upon selling liquor and upon lotteries
which Congress has adopted. Could a more absurd example
of cross-purposes in legislation be imagined?
But the absurdity is in the absolute repugnancy of the
two courses of legislation, and is inherent in them. This
repugnancy is equally great, though the Federal government is the author of one and the State government of the
other of the opposing laws.
In this repugnancy between an act of Congress raising a
revenue from crime in a State, and the legislation of the
State suppressing the crime, there can be no doubt of the
supremacy of the State legislation.
Whatever room for argument there may be as to the competency of State legislation to extinguish material products,
as sources of internal revenue to the United States, by proscription of their legal use while their actual use continues, it
can never be tolerated that personal vice and guilt constitute a
fund for Federal taxation, which ousts the States of police and
penal regulation of the personal conduct of their inhabitants.
Hence, upon the natural construction of these acts of Congress, not less than upon the foregoing reasons, it is to be
inferred that this revenue is sought to be raised only when
and where the pursuit taxed is a lawful occupation, and admits of the methods for its regulation and the colleetior of
the tax prescribed by Congress.*
" See act June 80, 1864, l'78, 111, last clause; 18 SLat. at Large, 250,
279; McGuire v.Commonwealth, 3 Wallace, 387.

ICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

3. If this is not a correct view; if Congress meant to exact the license and lay the tax wherever lotteries or liquors
were dealt in,-whether declared crimes by the States or
not,-there remains another argument:
A license to carry on a particulay business is an authority
to carry it on. The licensee pays a valuable consideration
and gets, or rather "purchases, a right" to do what he is
licensed to do.* The trades or businesses here licensed were
part of the internal trade of the States; a sort of trade over
which, as we have said, Congress has no jurisdiction. And
the States have declared them nuisances and crimes, and forbidden them to be carried on at all. The license proffered,
and the special tax attempted to be laid, were thus void, and
no penalty could be imposed for refusing either to accept the
license or pay the tax
Indeed, it is obvious that if a State, by prohibitory legislation, withdraw a large class of articles from taxation, Congress must either lose the revenue or protect the citizen in
its violation of the State law.
But Congress, as we have said, cannot dictate the domestic law of any State. And this court has decided, recently,t
that a license from the United States is no protection to the
licensee against acts forbidden by the State laws.
Mr. Speed, A. G. (at the last term), Mr. Stanbery, A. G. (at
this), with the former of whom was Mr. -Reed, A. G. of Massachuselts, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In the argument of all the cases here before the court, it
was strenuously maintained by counsel for the defendants
that the imposition of penalties for carrying on any business
prohibited by State laws, without payment for the license
or special tax required by Congress, is contrary to public
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheaton, 419.
B
" McGuire v. The Corinmonwealth, 3 Wallace, 387.

Dec. 1866.]

LICENSE TAX CASES.

Opinion of the court.

policy; and illustrations of this supposed contrariety were
drawn from hypothetical cases of the license of crime for
revenue.
We will dispose of this objection before proceeding to
consider the other important questions which these cases
present.
It is not necessary to decide whether tor not Congress
may, in any case, draw revenue by law from taxes on crime.
There are, undoubtedly, fundamental principles of morality
and justice which no legislature is at liberty to disregard;
but it is equally undoubted that no court, except ih the
clearest cases, can properly impute the disregard of those
principles to the legislature.
And it is difficult to perceive wherein the legislation we
are called upon to consider is contrary to public policy.
This court can know nothing of public policy except from
the Constitution and the laws, and the course of administration and decision. It has no legislative powers. It cannot
amend or modify any legislative acts. It cannot examine
questions as expedient or inexpedient, as politic or impolitic. Considerations of that sort must, in general, be addressed to the legislature. Questions of policy determined
there are concluded here.
There are cases, it is true, in which arguments drawn from
public policy must have large influence; but these are cases
in which the course of legislation and administration do not
leave any doubt upon the question what the public policy is,
and in which what would otherwise be obscure or of doubtful interpretation, may be cleared and resolved by reference
to what is already received and established.
The cases before us are not of this sort. The legislature
has thought fit, by enactments clear of all ambiguity, to impose penalties for unlicensed dealing in lottery tickets and in
liquors. These enactments, so long as they stand unrepealed
and unmodified, express the public policy in regard to the
subjects of them. The proposition that they are contrary to
public policy is therefore a contradiction -in terms, or it is intended as a denial of their expediency or their propriety. If

LICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

intended in the latter sense, the proposition is one of which
courts cannot take cognizance.
We come now to examine a more serious objection to the
legislation of Congress in relation to the dealings in controversy. It was argued for the defendants in error that a
license to carry on a particular business gives an authority
to carry it on; that the dealings in controversy were parcel
of the internal trade of the State in which the defendants
resided; that the internal trade of a State is not subject, in
any respect, to legislation by Congress, and can neither be
licensed nor prohibited by its authority; that licenses for
such trade, granted under acts of Congress, must therefore
be absolutely null and void; and, consequently, that penalties for carrying on such trade without such license could not
be constitutionally imposed.
This series of propositions, and the conclusion in which it
terminates, depends on the postulate that a license necessarily confers an authority to carry on the licensed business.
But do the licenses required by the acts of Congress for selling liquor and lottery tickets confer any authority whatever?
It is not doubted that where Congress possesses constitutional power to regulate trade or intercourse, it may regulate
by means of licenses as well as in other modes; and, in case
of such regulation, a license will give to the licensee autnority to do whatever is authorized by its terms.
Thus, Congress having power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes, may, without doubt, provide for granting
coasting licenses, licenses to pilots, licenses to trade with
the Indians, and any other licenses necessary or proper for
the exercise of that great and extensive power; and the same
observation is applicable to every other power of Congress,
to the exercise of which the granting of licenses may be incident. All such licenses confer authority, and give rights to
the licensee.
But very different considerations apply to the internal
commerce or domestic trade of the States. Over this commerce and trade Congress has no power of regulation nor

Dee. 1866.]

LICENSE TAX CASES.

471

Opinion of the court.

any direct control. This power belongs exclusively to the
States. No interference by Congress with the business of
citizens transacted within a State is warranted by the Constitution, except such as is strictly incidental to the exercise
of powers clearly granted to the legislature. The power to
authorize a business within a State is plainly repugnaht to
the exclusive power of the State over the san'e subject. It
is true that the power of Congress to tax is a very extensive
power. It is given in the Constitution, with only one exception and only two qualifications. Congress cannot tax exports, and it must impose direct taxes by the rule of appor.
tionment, and indirect taxes by the rule of uniformity. Tnus
limited, and thus only, it reaches every subject, and may be
exercised at discretion. But it reaches only existing subjects. Congress cannot authorize a trade or business within
a State in order to tax it.
If, therefore, the licenses under consideration must be regarded as giving authority to carry on the branches of business which they license, it might be difficult, if not inpossible, to reconcile the granting of them with th6 Constitution.
But it is not necessary to regard these laws as giving such
authority. So far as they relate to trade within State limits,
they give none, and can give none. They simply express the
purpose of the government not to interfere by penal proceedings with the trade nominally licensed, if the required taxes
are paid. The power to tax is not questioned, nor the power
to impose penalties for non-payment of taxes. The granting
of a license, therefore, must be regarded as nothing nrore
than a mere form of imposing a tax, and of implying nothing except that the licensee shall be subject to no penalties
under national law, if he I)ays it.
This construction is warranted by the practice of the government from its organization. As early as 1794 retail dealers in wines or in foreign distilled liquors were required to
obtain and pay fhr licenses, and renew them annually, and
penalties were imposed for carrying on the business without
compliance with the law.* In 1802 these license-taxes and
1 1 Stat. at Large, 877.

LICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the other excise or internal taxes, which had been imposed
under the exigencies of the time, being no longer needed,
were abolished.* In 1813 revenue from excise was again
required, and laws were enacted for the licensing of retail
dealers in foreign merchandise, as well as to retail dealers
in wines and various descriptions of liquors.t These taxes
also were abolished after fhe necessity for them had passed
away, in 1817.: No claim was ever made that the licenses
thus required gave authority to exercise trade or carry on
business within a State. They were regarded merely as a
convenient mode of imposing taxes on several descriptions
of business, and of ascertaining the parties from whom
such taxes were to be collected.
With this course of legislation in view, we cannot say that
there is anything contrary to the Constitution in these provisions of' the recent or existing internal revenue acts ielating to licenses.
Nor are we able to perceive the force of the other objection made in argument, that the dealings for which licenses
are required being prohibited by the laws of the State, cannot-be taxed by the National government. There would be
great force in it if the licenses were regarded as giving authority, for then there would be a direct conflict between
National and State legislation on a subject which the Constitution places under the exclusive control of the States.
But, as we have already said, these licenses give no authority. They are mere receipts for taxes. And this would
be true had the internal revenue act of 1864, like those of
1794 and 1813, been silent on this head. But it was not
silent. It expressly provided, in section sixty-seven, that no
license provided for in it should, if granted, be construed to
authorize any business within any State or Territory prohibited by the laws thereof, or so as to prevent the taxation
of the same business by the State. This provision not only
recognizes the full control by the States of business carried
on within their limits, but extends the same principle, so far
* 2 Stat. at Large, 148.

t 3 Id. 72.

I"Id. 401.

Dec. 1866.]

LICENSE TAX CASES.
Opinion of the court.

as such business licensed by the National government is concerned, to the Territories.
There is nothing hostile or contradictory, therefore, in the
acts of Congress to the legislation of the States. What the
latter prohibits, the former, if the business is found existing
notwithstanding 'the prohibition, discourages by taxation.
The two lines of legislation proceed in the same direction,
and tend to the same result. It would be a judicial anomaly, as singular as indefensible, if we should hold a violation of the laws of the State to be a justification for the violation of the laws of the Union.
These considerations require an affirmative answer to the
first general question, Whether the several defendants,
charged with carrying on business prohibited by State laws,
without the licenses required by acts of Congress, can be
convicted and condemned to pay the penalties imposed by
these acts ?
The remaining question is, Whether the defendant, indicted for carrying on a business on which a special tax is
imposed by the internal revenue law, but which is prohibited
by the laws of New York, can be convicted and condemned
to pay the penalty imposed for not having paid that tax?
What has been already said sufficiently indicates our judgment upon this question.
Congress, in framing the act of 1866, has carefully guarded
against any misconstruction of the legislative intention by
substituting throughout the terra " special tax" for the word
"license."
This judicious legislation has removed all future
possibility of the error which has been common among persons engaged in particular branches of business, that they
derived from the licenses they obtained under the internal
revenue laws, an authority for cirrying on the licensed business independently of State regulation and control. And it
throws, moreover, upon the previous legislation all the light
of a declaratory enactment. It fully confirms, if confirmation were needed, the view we have already expressed, that
the requirement of payment for licenses under former laws
was a mere form of special taxation.

474

LICENSE TAX CASES.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

The act of 1866 contains the same provision in respect to
the effect of special taxes which the original act of 1864 contained in respect to licenses. It provides expressly that the
payment of the taxes imposed by it shall not exempt any
person carrying on a trade or business from any penalty or
punishment provided by State laws for carrying on such
trade or business, or authorize the commencement or continuance of any such trade or business contrary to State laws,
or prevent the imposition of any duty or any tax on such
trade or business by State authority.
It was insisted by counsel that whatever might be the
power, it could not have been the intention of Congress to
tax any business prohibited by State laws. And the argument from public policy was much relied upon in support
of this view.
We think it unnecessary to repeat the answer already
made to this argument, when urged against the requirements
of licenses. It is, if possible, less cogent against the direct
imposition of a tax on a prohibited business than against the
indirect imposition.
It may, however, be properly said that the law of 1866 was
enacted after the arguments of the last term, and that Congress imposed these special taxes with the distinct understanding that several branches of business thus taxed were
prohibited by State legislation. This is conclusive as to the
intention. The hypothesis we are asked to adopt would nullify some of the plainest provisions of the act, and is inadmissible. The question must be answered affirmatively.
Upon the whole, we conclude1. That licenses under the act of 1864, and the amendatory
acts, conveyed to the licensee no authority to carry on the
licensed business within a State.
2. That the requirement of payment for such licenses is
only a mode of imposing taxes on the licensed business, and
that the prohibition, under penalties, against carrying on
the business without license is only a mode of enforcing the
payment of such taxes.
3. That the provisions of the acts of Congress requiring

Dec. 1866.]

PERVEAR v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

475

Syllabus.

such licenses, and imposing penalties for not taking out and
paying for them, are not contrary to the Constitution or to
public policy.
4. That the provisions in the act of 1866 for the imposing
of special taxes, in lieu of requiring payment for licenses,
removes whatever ambiguity existed in the previous laws,
and are in harmony with the Constitution and public policy.
5. That the recognition by the acts of Congress of the
power and right of the States to tax, control, or regulate any
business carried on within its limits, is entirely consistent
vith an intention on the part of Congress to tax such business for National purposes.
It follows: That in the case from the Northern District of
New York, the question certified must be answered in the
affirmative.
That in the five cases from tl- District of New Jersey, the
several judgments must be reversed, and the several causes
remanded to the Circuit Court for new trial, in conformity
with this opinion.
That in the case from the District of Massachusetts, the
two questions certified must be answered in the affirmative;
andThat in each of the two cases from the Southern Distridt
of New York, the following answer must he returned to the
Circuit Court, namely: "That the law imposing the special
tax in the indictment mentioned, and for the non-payment
of which, said indictment was preferred and found, is valid,
and not unconstitutional."
ALL WHICH IS ORDERED ACCORDINGLY.

PERVEAR

v.

THE COMMONWEALTH.

1. A license from the Federal government, under the internal revenue acts
of Congress, is no bar to an indictment under a State law prohibiting
the sale of intoxicating liquors. The License Tax Cases supra, p. 462,
herein affirmed.
2. A law of a State taxing or prohibiting a business already taxed by Con.

