UNITED STATES V.

WEED.

[Sup. (Jt,

Statement of the chtse

nothing likely, in his opinion, to prejudice the case of the
ship and cargo.
We must say that his conduct was inconsistent with the
frankness and good faith to which neutrals, engaged in a
commerce open to great suspicion, are most strongly bound.
Considering the other facts in the case, however, and the
almost certain destination of the ship to a neutral port, with
a cargo, for the most part, neutral in character and destination, we shall not extend the effect of this conduct of the
captain .to condemnation, but we shall decree payment of
costs and expenses by the ship as a condition of restitution.
)EDRFEE ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. WEED ET AL.
1. When the record presents a case in this court which has been prosecuted
exclusively as prize, the property cannot be here condemned as for a
statutory forfeiture.
2. When the record presents a case prosecuted below on the instance side
of the court, for forfeiture under a statute, it cannot here be condemned
as prize.

8. In either of these cases, if the facts disclosed in the record justify it, the
case will be remanded to the court below for a new libel, and proper
proceeding according to the true nature of the case.
4. In the present case, which was prosecuted as prize of war exclusively,

the facts did not prove a case of prize, nor did they show a probable
case of violation of any statutes. A decree of the court below dismisking the libel and restoring the property was therefore affirmed.
b. Permitq granted during the late rebellion by the proper licensing agents
to purchase goods in a certain locality, are primdfacie evidence that the
locality is properlv within the trade regulations of that department.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for

the Eastern District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
On the 15th of April, 1864, the steamer A. G. Brown was
hoarded in the Atchafalaya River, while on her way tc
Brashear City, by the United States gunboat Wyanza, Cap.

Dec. 1866.1

UNITED STATES

V. WEED.

68

Statement of the case.

tain Washburne, and after some investigation the cargo of
the Brown was pronounced prize of war. She followed the
gunboat into Brashear City, her cargo was landed there, and
put on the railroad which connects that place with New
Orleans, and sent to the latter city in charge of a person
calling himself a prize-master. No attempt was made to
detain the A. G. Brown. About a week afterwards she
landed at Brashear City, on her return from another expedition, and as soon as she touched the shore Captain Washburne came 6n board of her, declared her cargo prize of
war, and sent that also to New Orleans by railroad. These
cargoes consisted of sugar and molasses.
At New Orleans the first cargo arrived in two instalments.
On the arrival of the first a libel was filed against it, in prize,
in the District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
by the attorney of the United States for that district. Shortly
after this the second instalment of the first capture, knd all
of the second capture, arrived at New Orleans, where'upon
an amended or supplemental libel, equally in prize, was filed
against all the goods of both seizures.
The property, on its arrival,.was placed in the hands of
prize commissioners, depositions in preparaloriowere taken,
and the litigation pursued and ended as if it were a single
capture. It was only by the most diligent search of the
record that one was enabled to discover'what goods were
taken in the first capture and what in the second.
As soon as the ease was fairly begun in the District Court,
C. A. Weed filed his claim for the sugar and molasses of the
first capture, alleging that he was the owner of it; that he
was a loyal citizen of New Orleans; that lie had purchased
the property in the Parish of St. Mary, Louisiana, under a
license from the proper treasury agents, and was transmitting it to New Orleans, when it was seized. F. Blydenburgh
filed a claim, with similar statements, for the sugar of the
second capture, stating, however, that he had bought it under a license which authorized him to "transport the same
from the Parish of S1. Marlin's." Both claims, which were
sworn to, were quite full in stating the circumstances con..

64

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

-cted with the purchases and loyalty of the region where
made and through which the property passed.
Durii)g the progress of the case the claimant made a motion to dismiss the proceedings in prize, and transfer tlhe
case to the instance side of the court. This motion was disregarded; but, on final hearing, the District Court dismissed
the libel and ordered restitution of the property. From that
decree the United States appealed to this court.
The vessel on which the goods were seized was the property of the government of the United States, in the employment and control of the quartermaster's department of
(leneral Banks's army at the time of the seizure,-the government receiving $3000 for the use of the vessel. An
officer of this department accompanied the expedition, which
went from Brashear City for the goods, and was on board
when she was overhauled by the gunboat. The vessel was
manned by officers and men in the service of the government. There was also on board a file of United States
soldiers, under the command of a captain of the army, who
were detailed for the expedition by order of the colonel in
command. The only person known to be on board not in
the service of the government was the person who acted as
agent for the claimant of the goods. Brashear City was in
posse;siol of our forces, and had been for several months,
and the vessel was only returning to her proper place when
she was captured in the first instance, and was lying there
when boarded, in the second. Ifer voyage did not, ineither
case, extend beyond the region of.country which was under
the control of the military authorities of the government at
that time.
As to the cargoes.
Weed's had been brought from the parish of St. Mary.
Blydenburgh's came from the parish of St. iartin, on'the
shore of the Grand River, a little below a place called Butte
la Rose. The Grand River was apparently the boundary
between the two parishes. The district is on the Gulf of
Mexico, and is indented on the Gulf side by several bays,
witb numerous islands, creeks, &c., divided by two or three

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

65

Argument for the United States.

navigable rivers, broken by swamps and lakes, and traversed
in every direction by numberless bayous and watercourses;
facts which rendered the absence of a public enemy a fact
not so easy to be ascertained.
It appeared, however, in this case that the district was in
the control of the United States; that the President had
designated by proclamation, on the 1st of January previous,
the parish of St. Mary and apparently the whole region
through which that cargo was to pass, as not in rebellion.
Various placcs in the parish of St. Mary had been named by
the commanding general as the places where delegates from
the State were to assemble on the 22d February, 1864, to
appoint State officers, and on the first Monday of April following, to make a State constitution.
The licenses, which were produced in court, and had all
usual indicia of regularity, were to purchase within " the
country known as the parish of St. Mary, Louisiana," and
both had at die top of them the words, "1This permit will
accompany the shipment, and be surrendered at the customhouse." No papers were found with the goods.
Mr. A.-1l'on, Assistant Attorney-General,for the United States,
appellants:
Conceding, for the sake of argument simply, that the
property was not enemy property, and so liable to confiscation as prize of war, it is yet so for violation of municipal
law, and the court below should not have ordered restitution.
Licenses of this charaeter are strictly construed. The rule
against constructive license is probably the sternest principle
known to the law.* Even where the licensee was deceived
by the tours6 of the captor's government, a persuasive equity
could not relieve him.14 The party who uses a license " engages not only for fair intentions, but for an accurate interpretatiou of the permit.":: The claimant in a prize court is
The Hoop, 1 Robinson, 216.
J- The Charlotta, 1 Dodson, 387-893.
I Lord Stowell, The Cosmopolite, 4 Robinson, 13.
VOL V.

5

66

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

an actor, and must make out his case.* During the late rebellion, for the best of reasons, the doubt seems to have gone
in this court against the individual, in deference to controlling public objects.t
Now in this case there are various difficulties.
1. The first words of the documents are these: "This permit will accompany the shipment and be surrenderedat the customhuse." The case shows that the license did not accompany
the merchandise; nor did any other papers. This was a
violation of the conditiqns of the license, which, by its own
terms, was thus avoided.
2. The merchandise in suit is not identified with the al-.
leged pernilts, or as the property of thq claimant. The
onus of an intervenor is nowhere more pressing than on this
point Quantity is one of the elements of identity where a
lot of merchandise is in question. In this case the property
claimed here by Weed is of a quantity precisely stated in
the libels.
3. As respects ]Blydenburgh's license. The permit was to
purchase in and transport from "St. Mary's parish." Blydenburgh's own statement in his claim shows that the whole
transaction was in "St. Merlin's parish." For this he does
tiot pretend to have had any license
Mr. Coffey, contra, for the claimant.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
If this case is to be disposed of here, upon the answer to
be given to the question of prize or no prize, there can be
no doubt that the decree of the District Court must be
affirmed.
There can on the facts be no pretence that there was any
attempt to break a blockade, nor can it be held that the
cargoes were enemy property; No person hostile to the
United States is mentioned in argument or otherwise as
probable owner of any part of them. Can the places from
The Amiable Isabella, 6 Wheaton, 77.
" The Reform, 3 Wallace, 628.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

WEED.

Opinion of the court.

which the goods were brought impress upon them the char.
acter of enemy property ? They were the products of those
islands of Louisiana found in the bayous of that region, and
were undoubtedly taken by the vessel from near the places
of their production. These places, as we have seen, were
under the military control of our authorities; and the
parishes of St. Mary and St. Martin were then represented
in a convention of loyal citizens, called to frame a constitution under which a government was organized for the State,
hostile to the rebellion, and acceptable to the military commander of that department.
The regularly authorized agents of the Treasury Depart
ment were also issuing licenses to trade in these parishes,
under the act of July 13th, 1861, and'the regulations of the
Treasury Department made under that act and other acts of
Congress. It is not possible to hold, therefore, that property
arriving from these parishes was, for that reason- alone, to be
treated as enemy property, in the sense of a prize court.
Whether it is liable to forfeiture for an illegal traffic, as
being in violation of those regulations and acts of Congress,
will be considered hereafter; but the question must be determiied upon other considerations than those which govern
a prize court.
The question of prize or no prize must therefore be answered in the negative.
But it is said, in behalf of the government, that if the
property in controversy is not subject to condemnation as
prize of war, it is liable to confiscation as having been ,purchased in violation of the acts of Congress, and the trade
regulations established in pursuance of those acts.
Before entering upon this inquiry a preliminary question
of some importance presents itself; which must be first dis
posed of.
The pleadings, the testimony, and the conduct of the case
have been governed exclusively, from its commencement,
upon the idea of prize proceedings. The libel is a very
general allegation of property captured as prize. Not a
word is found in the pleadings of the case which alleges any

UNITED STATES V.

WEED.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

fact rendering the property liable to confiscation under the
acts of Congress. A large part of the testimony consists of
mants had no
depositions taken in preparatorio,where the
opportunity of cross-examination. If, under these circumstances, there is found in the testimony sufficient evidence
to convince us that the property is liable to statutory confiscation, can we condemn it in this proceeding? Or, if we
cannot condemn, must we, on the other hand, restore it to
the claimants?
It would seem to violate all rules of pleading, as well as
all the rules of evidence applicable to penal forfeitures, to
hold that in such circumstances we can proceed to condemnation. The right of the claimant to be infbrmed by
the libel of the specific act by which he or his property has
violated the law, and to have an opportuhity to produce
witnesses, and to cross-examine those produced against him,
are as fully recognized in the admiralty courts, in all except
prize cases, as they are in the courts of common law.
In the case of The Schooner .Heppel,* the vessel was proceeded against for a forfeiture under the act to interdict
commercial intercourse with France, and this court, by C.
J. Marshall, says, that the first question made for its consideration is whether the information will support a sentence
of condemnation. After stating the substance of the pleading, and the rule which governs the common laxV courts, he
proceeds: "Does this rule apply to informations in a court
of admiralty? It is not contended that all those technical
niceties, which are unimportant in themselves, and standing
only on precedents of which the reason cannot be discerned,
should be transplanted from the courts of common law in a
court of admiralty. But a rule so essential to justice and
fair proceeding, as that which requires a substantial statement of the offence upon which the prosecution is founded,
must be the rule of every court where justice is its object,
and cannot be satisfied by a general reference to the proIe then asks if this defect of the
visions of the statute."
* 7 Cranch, 389.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

Opinion of the court.

pleading can be cured by any evidence showing that in
point of fact the vessel and cargo are liable to forfeiture
and holds that it cannot.
In the case of The Brig Caroline,* this case is affirmed,
and the principle applied to a libel filed against a vessel for
violating the act of Congress concerning the slave trade.t
The claimants, on the other hand, insist that as the evidence does not sustain a case within the prize jurisdiction
of the court, the libel must be dismissed, and the property
restored.
This might be true if the prize court of this country was
a court sitting under a special commission, as it is in England, for that commission must then be the limit of its power.
But such is not the case here. The District Court holds
both its prize jurisdiction and its jurisdiction as an instance
court of admiralty from the Constitution and the act of Congress, and it is but one court, with these different branches
of admiralty jurisdiction, as well as cognizance of other and
distinct subjects.
The case of Jecker v. Montgomery,T in this court, is instructive, if not conclusive, on the point we are now considering.
In that case Captain Montgomery had, during the Mexican
war, taken as prize the Admittance, an American vessel,
and her cargo, for illegal trade with the enemy on the coast
of California. He had carried his capture before a court
claiming prize jurisdiction in that region, organized by the
authority of the commanding general, and she was by that
court condemned and sold. After this the owners of the
vessel and cargo filed a libel in admiralty, in the instance
side of the court, in the District of Columbia, *against the
captor; alleging that the capture was wrongful, and the condemnation illegal, and they prayed for restitution of their
property, or that Captain Montgomery might be compelled
7 Cranch, 496.

f See, also, The Samuel, 1 Wheaton, 9; The Mary Anne, 8 Id. 380.
+ 13 1award, 498.

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

[Slip. Or,

Opinion of the court.

to bring the captured property into that court, or some other
court of competent jurisdiction, and institute there the proper
proceeding for its condemnation. Captain Montgomery
answered, and insisted that his capture was lawful prize, and
that the proceedings in the prize court in California were
valid. Demurrers to the answer were filed, and on these
pleadings the libel was dismissed.
On appeal to the Supreme Court, it was held that the prize
court of California was without authority and its decree void.
But, although the parties were before the court, and suflicient cause for the capture was stated in the answer, and
sufficient excuse shown for not proceeding to a valid adjudication-all of which was admitted by the demurrer of the
claimants-this court reversed the decree dismissing the
libel, and remanded the case, with directions that the captor
should institute proceedings in prize for the condemnation
of his capture, and if he did not do so within a reasonable
time the court should proceed against him on the libel of
claimants for a marine trespass.
The court said that "the necessity of proceeding
to condemnation in prize does not arise from any distinction between the instance court of admiralty and the prize court.
Under the qonstitution of the United States the instance
court of admiralty and the prize court of admiralty are the
same court, acting under one commission. Still, however,
the property cannot be condemned as prize under this libel,
nor would its dismissal be equivalent to a condemnation,
nor recognized as such by foreign courts. The libellants allege that the goods were neutral, and not liable to capture,
and their right to them cannot be divested until there is a
sentence of condemnation against them as prize of war.
And, as that sentence cannot be pronounced against them
in the present form of the proceeding, it becomes necessary
to proceed in the prize jurisdiction of the court, where the
property may be condemned or acquitted by the sentence of
the court, and the whole controversy finally settled."
In that case it was determined that the ease must be re.
mitted to the court in prize, because, under the libel and

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V.

WEED.

71

Opinion of the court.

mode of proceeding in the instance side of the court, the
question of prize or no prize could not be definitely settled
The case before us is the converse of that. We have here
a case where all the proceedings are in prize, and according
to the mode of proceeding in prize courts, but the case for
the government, if it can be sustained at all, is not a case of
prize but of forfeiture under municipal law. We think the
reasons are quite as strong why this court should not condemn the property in this proceeding, even if liable to forfeiture on the facts, as they are for refusing to condemn a
prize oti a libel filed on the instance side of the court. What,
then, shall be done with the property, if'the facts in the
record prove a liability to forfeiture under the statute?
In the case of The Schooner Adelaide,* where this precise
question was raised, it was not found necessary to decide it,
because the proceeding being in prize, this court held that
the facts proved it to be a prize case. But Mr. Justice Story,
in delivering the opinion of the court, responding to the argument that the case was salvage and not prize, and therefore the libel should be dismiissed, said: "If, indeed, there
were anything il this objection, it cannot, in any beneficial
manner, avail the defendants. The most that could result
would be, that the case would be remanded to the Circuit
Court, with direction to allow an amendment of the libel.
Where merits clearly appear on the record, it is the settled
practice in admiralty pfoceedings not to dismiss the libel,
but to allow the party to assert his rights in a new allegation."
This practice was also followed in the case of Mrs. Alexan tcr's Collon.t In that case the cotton had been libelled as
prize of war. This court was of opinion that it Was not a
case of prize, but that it came within the statute covering
captured and abandoned property. The court did not, for
that reason, affirm the decree of the District Court, which
had restored the property, or its proceeds, to Mrs. Alexander,
but reversed that decree, and remanded the case to the Dis.
*9 Cranch, 244.

t 2 Wallace, 404.

UNITED

STATES V. WEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

trict Court, that it might dispose of the proceeds of the sale
of the property, then in the'registry, according to the opinion
of the court.
Our inquiries into this subject, guided and supported by
the decisions of this court, lead to the establishment of two
propositions:
1. That when a ease has been prosecuted as prize in the
modes in use in the prize courts, which the facts in the
record show not to be prize, but a case of forfeiture under
statute, this court will remand the case for further proceedings in the court below.
2. That where a case has been in like manner prosecuted
in the instance court, which, on the facts presented, this
court is of opinion is a case for a prize court, it will be remanded for proccedings in prize.
We have already seen that the present is not, on the facts,
a case of prize. The first of the above propositions establishes the rule that we cannot, under this proceeding, condemn the property for a forfeiture under the statute. It
remains to be determined whether we shall affirm the decree
of the District Court restoring the property, or remand the
case for further proceedings on the question of municipal
forfeiture. For this purpose we must examine, for a moment,
the testimony before us.
We have already seen that the goods were purchased in
those parishes of Louisiana which were occupied by our
military forces, and which'were under their control, and
which were also represented in the effort to establish a loyal
State government. It also appears that the legally appointed
agents of the Treasury Departmei)t were in the habit of
issuing permits to trade in those parishes.
The claimants allege that they made the purchases under
licenses obtained from these agents, that they were fair and
honest transactions, and that they themselves are loyal citizens of New Orleans. The facts of the purchase are stated
with particularity, and under oath. The permits, or licenses,
are produced and filed in court, and seem to us to be regu-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. WEED.

73

Opinion of the court.

lar in form and properly issued. It cannot be supposed that
this court can take judicial notice of the varying lines of the
Federal army of occupation in those remote regions, but the
fact that the proper officers issued these permits for certain
parishes, must be taken as evidence that they were properly
issued, until the contrary is established. The facts, also,
that the goods were brought in by a government vessel, for
the use of which government received $3000, commanded
by government officers, and guarded by government troops,
ordered for the purpose by the post commander, are circumstances not to be disregarded in a matter of this kind.
It is objected that the permits were not found with the
goods, as the regulations direct. This was merely'directory,
and would not of itself work a forfeiture of the goods. But
they probably were on board with the goods when the latter were seized, and the holder of them may have felt justified in not delivering this evidence of his good faith to a
gentleman who seemed willing to let the vessel do all she
could in this traffic, so long as he could stand on the shore
when she landed her goods, and seize them as prize of war.
It is said there is no proof identifying these goods as those
purchased under the permits; but the affidavits of claimants
are full to this point, and are uncontradicted by any testimony in the record. Other witnesses also prove the purchase and payment of. these goods by Weed, about the time
mentioned in the first of two permits issued to him.
It is said that Blydenburgh's permit was to purchase in the
parish of St. Mary, and that his purchase was made in the
parish of St. Martin. It is not shown precisely where the
purchase was made. The sugar was taken from the shore
of Grand River, a little below Butte la Rose. This Grand
River seems to be the boundary between the parishes of St.
Mary and St. Martin. However, there seems no reason to
suppose that Blydenburgh intended to violate the terms of
his permit, nor sufficient proof that he did so, in making his
purchase. There is much contradictory testimony as to the
existence of guerrillas near where the sugar was obtained
about the time of its transportation; but this would seem

WATSON V.

SUTHERLAND.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

to show the necessity for its speedy removal, if the purchase
had been honestly made.
On the whole, we see no reason to suppose that a case of
forfeiture would be made out by the testimony on another
trial, as much of that taken ex parle by the captors would
probably be modified favorably fbr the claimants on crossexamination.
The decree of the District Court is therefore
AFFIRMED.

WATSON V. SUTHERLAND.
The absence of a plain and adequate remedy at law affords the only test of
equity jurisdiction, and the application of this principle to a particular
case must depend altogether upon the character of the case, as disclosed
in the proceedings.
Hence where a creditor of A. levied on goods, a miscellaneous stock in
retail trade, suitable for the then current season, and intended to be paid
for out of the sales-in the possession of B., a young man recently
established in trade and doing a profitable business, alleging that they
had been conveyed to B. by A. to defeat his creditors-the court, upon,
being satisfied that they had not been so conveyed, held that the execution had been rightly enjoined; that as at law the measure of damages,
if the property were not sold, could not extend beyond the injury done
to it, or, if sold, to the value of it, when taken, with interest from the
time of the taking down to the trial-loss of trade, destruction of credit,
and failure of business prospects-commercial ruin, in short-collateral
or consequential damages, which might nevertheless ensue, would not
be compensated for at law, but were properly prevented in equity.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Maryland; the case being this:
Watson & Co., appellants in the suit, having issued writs
offerifacias on certain judgments which they had recovered
in the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland against
Wroth & Fullerton, caused them to be levied on the entire
stock in trade of a retail dry goods store in Baltimore, in
the possession of one Sutherland, the appellee. Sutherland,
claiming the exclusive ownership of the property, and inAPPEAL

