TIHE HAMPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TiE HAMPTON.
1. In proceedings in prize, and under principles of international law, mortgages on vessels captured jure belli,
are to be treated only as liens, sub-

ject to being overridden by the capture, not as jura in re, capable of an
enforcement superior to the claims of the captors.
2. Neither the act of July 18th, 1861, providing (? 5) that all goods, &c.,
coming from a State declared to be in insurrection ' into the other parts
of the United States," by land or water, shall, together with the vessel
conveying the same, be forfeited to the United States ; but providing
also (Q 8) that the forfeiture may be remitted by the Secretary of the
Treasury, &c. ; nor the act of March 3, 1803, " to protect the liens
upon vessels in certain cases,"

&c., refers to captures jure belli; and

neither modifies the law of prize in any respect.

AN act of Congress of July 13, 1861,* passed during the
late rebellion, enacted that goods, chattels, wares, and merchandise coming from or going to a State or section in insurrection, by land or water, along with the vessel inwhich
they were, should be forfeited,-but gave the Secretary of
the Treasury a right to remit., And another, passed March
3, 1863,t "that in all cases now, or hereafter pending, wherein
any ship, vessel, or other property shall be condemned in
any proceeding, by virtue of the ac/s above mentioned, or of any
other laws on that subject, the court rendering judgment
shall first provide for the payment of bonafide claims of loyal
citizens."
In January, 1863, the schooner Hampton and her cargo
were captured by the United States steamer Currituck in
Dividing Creek, Virginia, and having been libelled in the
Supreme Court for the District of Columbia, were condemned as prize of war. The master of the vessel was her
owner, but interposed no claim; nor did any one claim the
cargo. One Brinkley, however, appeared and claimed the
vessel as mortgagee. The bonafides of his mortgage was not
disputed; nor that be was a loyal citizen. But it was set
up that neither by the laws of war nor under the acts of
* 12 Stat. at Large, 256.

t Id. 762.

De . 1866.]

THE

HAMPTON.

373

Argument in support of the claim.

Congress, could the claim be allowed. After a hearing the
claim was dismissed by the court; the question involved,
however, being certified by it to this court, as one of difficulty
and proper for appeal. The matter was accordingly now
here on appeal, taken by Brinkley, from the order dismissing his claim.
Mr. W. S. Waters,for the appellant and in support of the mortgage claim:
The question is, "Does the mortgage as a claim prevail
against the forfeiture ?" We think it does.
The mortgage is ajus in re, and not a mere lien.*
Even then, if the case was unaffected by the act of Congress of March 3, 1863, the mortgage would prevail. This
claim was not a secret one. Any fair and open claim existing at the time of capture upon property captured in war is
valid, by the law of nations, if the claim amounts to a jus
in re.t
The forfeiture in this case, however, was really for breach
of municipal law, though the condemnation may have been
through pleadings in prize. The act of July 13, 1861, was
in force when the capture was made, and applicable to tile
facts of this case and controlled it. The general law of nations, as applicable to the question, was repealed to the extent
of the provisions of this statute. Even therefore if, on prin.
ciples of international law, the mortgage claim would not bo
allowed, we submit that under the statute of July 13, 1861,
it would. For undoubtedly all municipal forfeitures are subject to claims such as this when accruing before the act
which causes the forfeitur.
But finally, the act of March 3, 1863, is applicable, whatever ground of forfeiture may be assumed. The vessel, it
will hardly be denied, was condemned by virtue of laws applicable to the rebellion; and the act provides, that out of
Conard v. Atlantic Ins. Co., 1 Peters, 441-447; Thelusson v. Smith, 2
Wheaton, 396.
t The Sally Magee, 3 Wallace, 451; The Tobago, 5 Robinson, 194 ,The

Nlarianna, 6 Id. 24.

TntE

HtAMPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the proceeds of the property so condemned, the claim of any
bondfide loyal citizen of the United States shall be paid.*
31r. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLEIR delivered the opinion of the court.
The decree of condemnation of vessel and cargo stand
unaffected, and the only question presented for our decision
is, Whether appellant is entitled to have the amount of his
mortgage paid to him out of the proceeds of the sale of the
vessel.
1. The first ground on which appellant relies is, that the
mortgage being a jus in re, held by an innocent party, is
something more than a mere lien, and is protected by the
law of nations.
The mortgagee was not in possession in this case, and the
real owner who was in possession admits that his vessel was
in delicto by failing to set up any claim for her. It would
require pretty strong authority to induce us to import into
the prize courts the strict common law doctrine, which is
sometimes applied to the relation of a mortgagee to the property mortgaged. It is certainly much more in accordance
with the liberal principles which govern admiralty courts to
treat mortgages as the equity courts treat them, as mere
securities for the debt for which they are given, and therefore no more than a lien on the property conveyed.
But it is unnecessary to examine this question minutely,
because an obvious principle of necessity must forbid a prize
court from recognizing the doctrine here contended for. If
it were once admitted in these courts, there would be an end
of all prize condemnations. As soon as a war was threatened,
the owners of vessels and cargbes which might be so situated
as to be subject to capture, would only have to raise a sufficient sum of money on them, by bond file mortgages, to
indemnify them in case of such capture. If the vessel or
cargo was seized, the owner need not appear, because he
would be indifferent, having the value of his property in his
See The Sally Magee, 8 Wallace, 451.

Dec. 1866.]

TieE

HTAMPTON.

Opinion of the court.

hands already. The mortgagee having an honest mortgage
which he could establish in a court of prize, would either
have the property restored to him, or get the amount of his
mortgage out of the proceeds of the sale. The only risk
run by enemy vessels or cargoes on the high seas, or by neutrals engaged in an effbrt to break a blockade, would be the
costs and expenses of capture and condemnation, a risk too
unimportant to be of any value to a belligerent in reducing
his opponent to terms.
A principle which thus abolishes the entire value of prize
capture oa the high seas, and deprives blockades of all
dangers to parties disposed to break them, cannot be recognized as a rule of prize courts.
2. The second ground on which appellant relies is based
upon the fact that the vessel was liable to confiscation under
the act of Congress of July 13, 1861, and that the act of
March 3, 1863, protects his rights in the premises.
This latter statute provides, " that in all cases now or hereafter pending wherein any ship, vessel, or other property
shall be condemned in any proceeding, by virtue of the acts
above mentioned, or of any other law on that subject, the
court rendering the judgment" shall first provide for bond
fide claims of loyal citizens. Although there is nothing in
this act, or in its title, to show what the acts above-mentioned
were, it may be conceded that the act of July 13, 1861, was
one of them. But as the vessel in the case before us was
not condemned in any proceeding, by virtue of that act, or
of any law on that subject, but was condemned under the
international laws of war by which she became lawful prize,
it i3 difficult to perceive bow the act of 1863 can have any
application to the case. It is certainly not covered by its
terms, and we think still less by its provisions.
Congress had, by several statutes, of which the act of July
13th was one, defined certain acts, or conditions growing out
of the rebellion, which would render property liable to confiscation to the United States. It became evident that in
many of these cases loyal citizens might have rights and
interests in such property which justice required to be pro

THE HIAMPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tected. Hence the passage of the act of March, 1863, and
the eighth section of the act of July 13, 1861, the latter of
which gives to the Secretary of the Treasury the power of
remitting forfeitures and penalties incurred by virtue of that
act.
We are quite satisfied that in neither of these provisions
did Congress have reference to cases of condemnation as
prize jure belli.
It is further said that because the vessel in this case was
liable to condemnation under the act of July, 1861, although
actually condemned under 'a principle of international law,
the court is bound to apply the statute as though she had
been condemned in a proceeding under it. We do not see
the force of the argument. Both laws are in force. The
vessel was liable under both. The government chose to proceed against her under that law which prescribed the harder
penalty. Its right to do so seems to us undeniable. The argument to the contrary would enable a person found guilty of
a murder committed by burning down the house of his victim, to plead that he should only be sentenced to the penitentiary instead of being hung, because he was guilty of
arson in addition to murder. The case of The Sally* is a
direct decision of this court, that a statute creating a municipal forfeiture does not override or displace the law of prize.
We do not deny the full control of Congress over the law
of prize as it may be administered in the courts of the United
States whenever they choose to exercise it. But in the
statutes relied on by appellant in this case, we see no evidence of any intention to modify that law in any respect.
There seems to be no reason to doubt the loyalty of appellant, or the fairness of his debt, and we regret our inability to provide for his claim. But until international
treaties, or an act of Congress, shall mark another stage in
the meliorations of the rigors of war, we are not at liberty
to interpolate a principle which would tend so materially to
destroy the right of prize capture in time of war.
DECRE AFFIRMED.
* 8 Cranch, 382

