Dec. 1866.]

MYERS v. FENN.
Statement of the case.

extend the time for payment-taking up the old securities
and issuing new.
This suit is brought upon the scrip received on that set.
tlement, and we think the learned court below erred in
excluding it from the jury.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed with costs,
and the cause is remanded to the court below, with instructions to issue
A VENIRE DE NOVO.

MYERS v. FEmN.
The practice of permitting judgment creditors to come in and make themselves parties to a creditor's bill, and so obtain the benefit, assuming at
the same time their portion of the costs and expenses of the litigation,
is well settled. And a proceeding of this sort will not be reversed because the party so coming in has not obtained an order of court to
come on; the want of such order not being objected to and the proceeding having gone on to its conclusion as if it had been obtained.
Semble that in Illinois, in the case of a perfectly fair assignment for the
benefit of creditors, where the trust will give considerable trouble and
property assigned is of a sort that little or no cash will pass into the
hands of the assignee, a payment by the debtor previously to the assignment's being made, of a certain sum on account of commissions, need
not of necessity vitiate the assignment.

MYERs, Kinsly, and Stout, having obtained judgment
against Fenn, filed a bill against him and three other persons named respectively, Thompson, Green, and Roberts,which last-named person had been Fenn's general assignee,
charging a fraudulent transfer of property by'hin to them.
Before issue was had on this bill, one Bowen, having a judgment against Fenn for $3260.96, and a certain Reed having
one for $3916.75, upon each of which execution had been
returned unsatisfied, united by petition in the bill of Myers,
Kinsly, and Stout. The petitions were filed without an3
order of court; but no objection was made, and the hearing
went on as if an order had been granted. The bill set forth
that Fenn, being hopelessly insolvent, had conveyed large

206

MYERS V. FENN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the assignment.

quantities of property both to Thompson and to Green, receiving therefor pa'yment in county bonds and other securities then so greatly depreciated as to make it plain that a
fraud was intended. And as respected Robbins (the general
assignee), that the assignment was not made in good faith,
but in order to place the property beyond the reach of executions, and it prayed that it might be set aside.
After Bowen and Reed filed their petitions the proceed
ing as respected Thompson and Green was dismissed by
consent of parties, the matter of the general assignment being thus the only'matter remaining charged as fraudulent.
As respected this it appeared by the testimony of Robbins,
the general assignee, called by the complainants, and the
only witness examined, that Fenn was wholly insolvent and
had transferred all his property of every sort to him, for the
benefit of his creditors exclusively. It appeared also, however, on cross-examination, that before the assignment was
resolved on, Fenn, by the advice of his friends, had come to
Thompson, asking him to become the assignee; that Thompson had declined; that being still urged, Thompson had
gone to counsel and ascertained that upon an estate such as
Fenn's he would be entitled to six per cent. commission;
that examining Fenn's affairs he found that theamount of
debt to be collected would be about $100,000, but that so
very large an amount of it would be paid by counter demands on Fenn himself, that there would not be sufficient
money to pay the commissions. Thompson therefore refused to accept the office of assignee unless Fenn paid him
a " bonus," which Fenn paid him, accordingly, in the shape
of three county bonds for $1000 each, and worth actually
about $2300. This sum was apparently meant to be on account of commissions.
The Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois (in
which the bill was filed) dismissed it. Appeal.

Mr. E. S. Smilh,for the appellants:
The giving of the bonds to Robbins, vitiated the assign
meaii.

Dec. 1866.]

MYERIS v. FENN.
Opinion of the court.

A debtor cannot fix compensation for an assignee, much
less canl he pay a large sum in advance for labor to be performed. If the debtor could do this, he might as well give
to the assignee discretionary power which he could exercise
against the will of the creditors.
In iehols v. MlJcEwen,* the assignment provided for the
payment of a counsel fee to the assignee, who was a lawyer,
over and above the expenses of the commission for executing the trust. The assignment was held void for that provision. Our case is stronger than that one. There the provision was made upon the face of the assignment and was
open for the creditors to know what the provision was.
Here nothing appeared until the parties were complled to
answer and testify.
Mr. Van Armam, conira.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The complainant, Bowen, by petition, united in a creditor's bill which had be.eni filed against the defendants, before
it was at issue. Subpoenas were issued and served on him;
and, although no order appears to have been entered permitting the joinder of the petitioner in the suit, all the
subsequent proceedings were carried on as if such order had
been entered. No objection was made to the joinder, but,
on the contrary, the court and all parties seem to have acquiesced.
The practice of permitting judgment creditors to come in
and make themselves parties to the bill, and thereby obtain
he benefit, assuming at the same time their portion of the
costs and expenses of the litigation, is well settled.
The judgment, which is set forth in his petition against
Fenn, the common debtor, is for the sum of $3260.96, upon
which execution had been issued and returned. At the
same time another judgment creditor, T. B. Reed and
others, joined in the proceedings without objection. This
judgment had been rendered against Fenn fbr the sum of
17 New York, 22.

SEAVER v. BIGELOWS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

$3916.75. The case went to a hearing on the pleadings and
proofs, and a decree was entered dismissing the bill. It is
now here on appeal.
Although the bill was originally filed against four parties,
while the suit was progressing, and after the above judgment
creditors had become parties to the proceedings, it was dismissed by the stipulation and consent of the complainants as
to two of them-Thompson and Green-who were charged
in the bill as having become the owners of large parcels of
the estate of Fenn, the debtor, after his insolvency and before he made an assignment for the benefit of his creditors.
The dismissal of these parties narrowed the litigation and
confined the issue between the judgment creditors on the
one side, and the debtor and Robbins, his general assignee,
on the other, and who was the only witness examined in the
case. He was called on the part of the complainants. His
testimony shows, that Fenn was heavily in debt and hopelessly insolvent. That he had divested himself of all his
property in his endeavors to adj ust his del)ts, and by the assignment for the benefit of his creditors. There was no
concealment of any of his assets, or attempted appropriation
of any part of them fbr his own benefit or the benefit of his
family. All that he possessed appears to have been devoted
by the assignment to the use of his creditors, and we perceive no reason for dissenting from the conclusion at which
the court below arrived in its disposition of the case.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

SEAVER V. BIGELOWS.
in a creditor's bill-several creditors joining-to set aside a conveyance of
property as fraudulently made, this court has no jurisdiction on appeal
if the judgment of the creditor appealing do not exceed $2000. Tb3
fact that the fund in litigation exceeds it is not sufficient.

SEAVER filed a creditor's bill against the defendants, in the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, setting
forth a judgment against one of the defendants, for tho

