Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. THE COMMISSIONER.

563

Statement of the case.

ship constitute one party, and the owners of the cargo the
other, tho law of freight applies, and the fundamental rule,
says Ir. Parsons, is that the rights of the respective parties
arm reciprocal, and that each has a lien against the other to
enforce those rights, and the better opinion is, that the lien
for freight commences as soon as the goods are delivered
into the control of the master, or certainly as soon as they
are put on board.*
Usually the charter-party contains a clause binding the
ship to the merchandise and the merchandise to the ship,
but the Iaw-merhant, as already explained, imposes that
mutual obligation even if it be omitted.t
Decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed with costs,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings in con formity to this opinion. Libellants, upon the payment of the
amount of the protested acceptance and interest and costs
of suit, will be entitled to a decree that the stipulation given
for the return of the goods shall be given up to be cancelled.
Otherwise the libel must be dismissed.
DECREE REVERSED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. THE COMMISSIONER.
A mandamus will not be granted to compel the performance of an office, such
as the issuing of a patent for land, in a case where numerous questions of
law and fact arise, some of them depending upon circumstances which rest
in parol proof yet to be obtained, and where the exercise of judicial funcNor will it be
tions, some of them of a high character, is required.
granted where it is reasonable to presume that there are persons at the
time in posession under another title, and who therefore should have an
opportunity to defend it.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
*

2 Parsons on Contracts (5th ed.). 286; Abbott on Shipping, 462; Fra-

gano v. Long, 4 Barnewall and Creswell, 219; Cooke v. Wilson, 1 Common

Bench, N. S. 153; Maclachlan on Shipping, 353; Tindall v. Taylo, 4 Ellis
& Blackburn, 219; Same case, 28 English Law and Equity, 210.
-f- Brig Casoo, Davies, 184; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 803; 2 Parsons's M.

L. 561.

5(34

UNITED STATES V.

THE COMMISSIONER.

[SUp. Ct

Statement of the case.

The case in that court arose on a petition by McConnell
for a mandamus to command the Commissioner of the General Land Office to cause to be prepared, signed,
countersigned, recorded, and issued, a patent to him for the north
part of the south half of section No. 10, T. No. 39 W., range
14 E., situate in the city'of Chicago. There was a rule to
show cause, and a return thereto by the Commissioner of the
Land Office.
The right to the patent was founded upon a certificate of
purchase by private entry at the register's office in Chicago,
on the 15th June, 1836. The relator complained that he
had been denied the patent, since the issuing of the oertificate down to the present time, some twenty-eight years,
though repeated applications had been made by him for the
sal e.
The return set up that one Robert Kenzie entered this
same land, under a pre-emption right, as early as the 7th
May, 1831, five years before the relator's entry, and, that the
latter's certificate of purchase on the 1st June, 1834, was
cancelled on the 20th August thereafter, by the commissioner
on account of this previous entry.
Several objections were taken to the legality of the 4entry
by Kenzie, such as, that it was made in the wrong district,
and, if in the right one, that the entry on this part of the
south half of section No. 10 was in violation of law; which
objections were answered by allegations that an act of Congress was passed confirmatory of the defective entry; and
also, that the parcel entered and contested belonged to the
north and not to the south part of the section.
It further appeared that a patent was issued to Kenzie 4th
March, 1837, in pursuance of an act of Congress passed 2d
July, 1836; but to this itwas objected that the! rights of the
relator had become vested by the previous entry of 1st June,
1836.
The court below refused to grant the mandamus, and the
case was now here for review.
Xr. McDougal,for the relator.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES V.

THE COMMISSIONER.

565

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
Where the merit of the several objections find questions
made in this case lie, we do not undertake to determine, nor
can they be determined, understandingly, upon this record.
Many of the acts of the parties, and of the officers, the
registers, and commissioners of the Land Office, may be
valid or void, depending upon the facts and circumstances
attending them at the time, and which rest in parol, and are
the proper subject of proofs. We have referred to them Ibr
the purpose of showing that this case is not one to which the
remedy by mandamus can be applied. It calls for the exercise of the judicial functions of the officer, and these of' no
ordinary character. Indeed, however eminent, it is plain
no intelligible decision could be made without the aid of
facts not within his knowledge, nor attainable by proofs
consistent with the proceedings in the case of mandamus.
The duty is not merely ministerial, but involves judgment
and discretion, which cannot be controlled by this writ.
Besides, it appears that Kenzie was in possession when his
entry was made in May, 1831, and was there in 1836; and,
as the premises are situated in the settled part of the city of
Chicago, it is but reasonable to presume that persons are at
this time in possession of the same premises under his title
who should have an opportunity to defend it. The relator
has mistaken his remedy, for if his title under the certificate
is valid, and .presents a superior equity over the opposing
title, as in the case of Lytlde el al. v. The Slate of Arkansas,*
and Lindsey v. Ilawes,t the appropriate remedy is.by bill
in equity.
Whether or not a mandamus will lie in any case to compel
the issuing of a patent is a question not necessarily involved
in this case; we have not therefore examined it, and express no opinion upon it. We have found no case in which
this power has been exercised.
Patents are to be signed by the President in person, or in

* 9 Howar4, 315.

f"2 Black, 554.

566

[Sup. Ct.

GOODRICH V. THE CITY.
Statement of the case.

his name by a secretary, under his direction,* and countersigned by the recorder of the General Land Office.t
Judgment of the court below
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in the case.

GOODRICH V. THE CITY.
1. Where a matter is directly in issue and adjudged in a court of common
law, that judgment may be got up as.an estoppel in a court of admiralty.
2. Where an action is brought in a State court against a city for its neglect

to do a public duty imposed on it by law (as ev. gr. to keep its harbor
free from obstructions hidden under water), the declaration going upon
its neglect to do the thing at all, a judgment in such State court that it
was not bound to do the thing at all, may be used as an estoppel in
another suit (a libel in admiralty), where the allegation of the libel is
that, being bound to keep the river clear, the city began to clear itentered upon its duty but never finished the work, by which neglect to
finish it the injury occurred; the cause of action being otherwise the

same.

GOODRICH filed a libel in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in a cause of damage, civil and maritime, against the City of Chicago, in personam.
The libel alleged that he was the owner of the steamer
Huron; and that, on the 27th of March, 1857, while leaving
the port of Chicago, the vessel ran against a sunken wreck
in the Chicago River and, was sunk; that, prior to this
damage done, the city had been vested with exclusive jurisdiction over the river as a common public navigable river
and highway by the State of Illinois, and with all the necessary means to provide funds for defraying the expenses incident thereto; that the city accepted the act of the legislature, and had ever since assumed the exclusive jurisdiction
and control over the river harbor; that on the 20th day of May,
1856, the city bad passed an ordinance for the removal, without delay, of any obstruction to free navigation, by which it
was ordained that whenever there should be in the harbor
*4 Star. at Large, 663.

t 5 Id. 417.

