D~ec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

737

Statement of the cases.

city their interests in the gas works. Conclusion is, that the
duties were properly assessed, and that there is no error in
the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE

KANSAS

INDIANS

1. The State of Kansas has no right to tax lands held in severalty by individual Indians of the Shawnee, Miami, and Wen tribestunder patents
issued to them by virtue of the treaties made with those tribes respectively in 1854, and in pursuance of the provisions of the 11th section of
the act of June 30th, 1859 (11 Stat. at Large, p. 431).
2. If the tribal organization of Indian bands is recognized by the political
department of the National government as existing ; that is to say, if
the National government makes treaties wiLh, and has its Indian agent
among them, paying annuities, and dealing otherwise with " head .men
in its behalf, the fact that the primitive habits and customs of the tribe,
when in a savage state, have been largely broken into by their intercourse with the whites,-in the midst of whom, by the advance of civilization, they have come to find themselves,-does not nuthorize a State
government to regard the tribal organization as gone, and the Indians as
citizens of the State where they are, and subject to its laws.
3. Rules of interpretation favorable to- the Indian tribes are to be adopted.
in construing our treaties with them. Hence, a provision in an Indian
treaty which exempts their lands from "levy, sale, and forfeiture," is
not, in the absence of expressions so to limit it, to be confined to levy
and sale under ordinary judicial proceedings only, but is to be extended
to levy and, sale by county officers also, for non-payment of taxes.

THESE wore three distinct cases involving, however, with
certain differences, essentially the same question ,argued on
the same day and by the same counsel.
The specific question was, whether the State of Kansas
had a right to tax lands in that State held in severalty by
individual Indians of the Shawnee, Wea, and Miami tribes,
under patents issued to them pursuant to certain; treaties of
the United States; the tribal organization of. these tribes
having to a certain extent, as was alleged, been broken in
upon by their intercourse with the whites, in the midst of
VOL. V.

47

788

TxuE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement a" the cases: The Shawnees.

whom the indians were, and by their enjoyment, to some
extent, of the social and other advantages of our own
people.
The q'festion was raised on bills filed in equity in the
county courts of Kansas, by different Indian chiefs,-Blue
Jacket as representing the Shawnees; Yellow Beaver representing the Wea tribe, and Wan-zop-e-ah the Miamisagainst the County Commissioners of Johnson County and
Miami County, to restrain these commissioners from selling
for non-payment of taxes lands held by these Indians in
their individual characters. The county court dismissed
the bills, conceiving that the lands were rightly taxed, and
on an afir*mance of such dismissals in the Supreme Court
of the State, the cases were brought here. They were, respectively, thus:
I.

CASE OF THE SHAWNEE TRIBE.

In 1817, a portion of the Shawnees were living in Missouri,
others in Ohio; those in Missouri were upon lands given to
them by the United States, and which, by treaty, was declared should not be liable to taxes so longq as they 'continued to be
the property of the Indians.*
In 1825, the Shawnees in Missouri gave up their lands
there to the United States, and in consideration for the surrender received for themselves, and such of their brethren
in Ohio as might choose to fbllow them, a tract in Kansasthen a wild-of 50,000 square miles, or 1,600,000 acres.t
In 1831, the Shawnees in Ohio resolved to join their Missouri brethren who had gone to Kansas. A treaty was accordingly concluded in that year by the United States with
the Ohio Shawnees. By the terms of it the President was
to cause the said tribe from Ohio to be protected at their intended residence against all interruption or disturbance from
any other tribe or nation of Indians, or from any other person or persons whatsoever, and he was to have the same care
* 7 Stat. at Large, 166.

tId. 284.

Dec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.
Statement of the cases: The Shawnees.

and superintendence over them in the country to which they
were to remove, that heretofore he had over them at their
then place of residence. 100,000 acres of land .within the
50,000 square miles, above mentioned, were granted to them
in fee by patent, so long as they should exist as a nation.
These lands were not to be ceded by them except to the
United States, and were never to be included within the bounds
of any State or Territory, nor to be subject to its laws.*
The Ohio Shawnees were thus transferred to Kansas, and
were there resident with the rest of their tribe from the
time they went there, continuously, up to 1854. In the
course of this term of years, the progress of civilization
westward, carried numbers of white men to, around, among,
and beyond them. They were thus in the midst of whites.
In May of the year just mentioned, 1854, Kansas became a
"Territory " of the United States, with an organic law from
Congress. By this law, it was ordained "that ' all treaties,
laws, and other engagements made by the government of
the United States with the Indian tribes inhabiting the territories embraced therein should be faithfully and rigidly observed;" and also that all such "territory, as by treaty with
any Indian tribe was not to be included within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory should
be excepted out of the boundaries and constitute no part of
the same until said tribe should signify their assent to tl-e
President of the United States to be included therein."
In November of this same year, 1854, the Shawneesholding their lands in common in fee by patent, no partition
having beeti made among themselves, and they proposing
to divide them to the extent of 200 acres each, among themselves, but having no mode to effect this except by paroleceded to the United States the whole tract of 1,600,000 acres.
A retrocession of a part (200,000 acres) was made in the
same instrument to carry out this purpose, with a stipulation that these retroceded lands should cover the lands where
improvements of individuals had been made, and that the
* 7 Stat. at Large, 857.

740

ThE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the cases: The Shawnees.

restriction before annexed to their title should 1)e as to the
power of alienation, regulated as Congress might provide
for. In one article of the agreement now made with these
Indians, " the care and protection of the United States are
invoked, and they agree to comply with the laws of the
United States', and expect to be protected and have their
rights vindicated by them."* 'A sum of $829,000 was
agreed to be paid to the Shawnee Indians for the cession
to the United States. One article of the treaty provides that
this sum "shall be in full satisfaction not only of such claim,
but of all others of what kind soever, and in release of all demands and stipulations arising under former treaties." From
this re-ceded or reserved tract 200 acres were to be selected
for each individual, except as to certain bands, who were to
have their lands in common and in a compact body. The lands
assigned to individuals were to be patented, under such restrictions as Congress-or, as that body afterwards enactedtsuch restrictions as the Secretary of the Interior might impose.' This officer afterwards made rules; and patents were
issued in fee simple, with the restriction that " the said lands
shall never be sold or conveyed by the grantee or his heirs
without the consent of the Secretary of the Interior."
In July, 1859, a constitution was formed for the State of
Kansas, in which it was provided that all rights of individuals should continue as if no State had been formed, or
change in the government made.
In January, 1861, an act for the admission of the State
was passed by Congress.1 In this it was provided "that nothing contained in this said constitution respecting the boundaries of said State shall be construed to impair the rights of
person or property now pertaining to the Indians of said territory, so long as such rights shall remain unextinguished by
treaty with such Indians." And also, "that no territory
should be included which, by treaty with such Indian tribes,
was not (without the consent of such tribe) to be included
within the territorial limits or jurisdiction of any State or
*10 Stat. at Large, 105-4.

t111Id.430.

112 Id. 127.

Dec. 1866.7]

THE ]KANSAS INDIANS.
Statement of the cases: The Miamis.

Territory; but that all such territory shall be excepted out of
the boundaries and constitute no part of the State of Kansas
until said tribe shall signify their assent to the President of
the United Stateg to be included in said State."
No treaty had been made by this tribe in which such consent was given by them. Nor was such assent shown by
the record to have been given to the President.

II. THE CASE

OF THE WEA TRIBE

Was similar in the outlines to that of the Shawnees. It
was a small tribe-a mere band-who joining with other
small tribes surrendered to the United States, bY treaty of
10.h August, 1854,* lands which had been ceded to them in
earlier times while the region was wild. One hundred and
sixty acres were reserved for each individual, to be selected,
not in a body, by the heads of families. ' Ten sections were
reserved for the common property of the tribe, and one
section for the American Indian Mission Association. The
unselected lands were to be sold and the proceeds given to
the Indians. The patents were like those given to the
Shawnees.
Ill. THE

CASE OF THE MIAMI TRIBE

Was, in its main aspect, like the others. By the treaty
of 1854,t it was provided, "should difficulties at any time
arise, that these Indians would abide by the laws of the
United States, and as they expected to be protected and
have their rights vindicated by those laws." And also in
the 11th article of the same treaty it was provided, "that the
President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, might
adopt such policy in the management of their affairs as in
his judgment might be most beneficent to them; or Congress might thereafter make such provision by law as expe10 Stat. at Large, 1082.

- Id. 1097.

742

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the cases.

rience should prove to be necessary."

Like the Indians of

the other two tribes, this tribe held their rights in severalty,
with the conditiors against alienation except on approval,
&c. The patents, in the case of this tribe, declared, however:

"That the lands now patented shall not be liable to levy, sale,
or execution, or forfeiture: PROVIDED, that the legislature of a
State within whieJ the ceded county may be hereafter embraced, may, with the assent of dongress, vemove the restriction."
IN THE CASE OF THE S-IAWNEE TIBV,

the Commissioners

of the County of Johnson,.which had laid the tax, answered
the bill as follows:
" That the aggregate of the lands selected by the said In.
dians, and from which it is sought to enjoin the levy of taxes, is
about one hundred thousand acres; that they do not lie in a
contiguous body, but are scattered over the entire area of the
lands ceded by said tribe of Indians to the United States; in
fact, over the whole body of the said county of Johnson; that
interspersed with the selected lands are farm lands and roads,
and school districts and municipal townshaips (the said districts and townships exercising their jurisdiction and functions
over the said lands) of the white citizens of the county; that the
lands are traversed by the white citizens as well as by Indians in
visiting each other, in going to mill and to various business contres of the county; that highways have been laid across the
lands by different county tribunals, and frequently at the instance and request of the grantees of the lands; that since the
lands have been patented to the Indians, many of them have
sold to their white neighbors, and to each other ' such portions
as they were allowed to do by the Secretary of the Interior;
that the Indians traffic and live with their white neighbors as
they do with each other, and as such white neighbors do with
each other; that many of the Indians have intermarried with
their white neighbors and friends; that their marriage ceremony conforms to the laws of the State; that many of the mom.
bers of the said tribe of Indians, and who are the complainants
in the bill, and who are grantees of tho selected lands, are white

Dec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

743

Statement of the cases.

men and women; that the said white men aru entitled to, and do
exercise the elective frianehise at all elections; that the Indians
appeal to the different courts of justice of the county to protect
their rights, not only as against their white neighbors, but as
against each other; that offenders among them are brought by
them before the courts of justice fbr trial and punishment; that
the Indians invoke the aid and shield of' the laws, courts, and
institutions of the State as administered and enibrced in the said
county to preserve order, maintain justice, protect righLs, and
redress wrongs among themselves as well as among their white
neighbors and thrsemsvees; that they use the common schoo
established in said county, and their children are entitled to thu
benefit of the different school funds ; that on the decease of any.
of the said Indians, their estates are subject to the laws of descent, inheritance, and distribution of the State, and are in fact
administered upon and disposed of by their request and application in the Probate Court of said county; that many of the said
Indians have paid the taxes levied upon their lands into the
treasury of the county, and that commercial business and social
intercourse prevail throughout said county between the complainants and the citizens; and residents of said county."

As

RESPECTED THE WEA TRIBE,

it was admitted in a case

agreed on,
"That guardians are appointed by the Probate Court of said
county for minors, and their lands sold by order of the Probate
Court under the like regulations of the Secretary of the Interior;
that the members of said tribe sue and are sued in the various
courts in the said county of Miami; that the said Indians trade
and traffic with the whites, and the whites with them-the same
as the whites do with each other; that the tribe exercise no
control over the bead-rights, and do not punish for offences
among themselves, but that the Indians go to the criminal courts
for redress; that eight of the persons fbr whose use this suit-is
brought are white men, adopted into the said tribe, and own
head-rights under the treaty; that some of the adopted whites
exercise the elective franchise; that highways are laid out over
and across said lands under the authority of the laws of Kansas;
that farms of the whites are interspersed more or less among
these Indian lands; that municipal townships of the county

744

TuE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup.,Ut

Statement of the cases.

embrace the said Indian lands, and have done so since the or.
ganization of the county. That annuities of the United States
are not received by the chiefs, but are paid over to each Indian
who signs the pay-roll.

The chiefs only receive those funds that

are used and expended for tribal purposes. The said tribe does
not enforce the collection ef debts among the members of said
tribe."
As RESPECTED THE MIAMIS, the case was admitted to be

essentially similar.
In 1860 a law was passed by the Territorial authorities of
Kansas,* to the effect " that all Indians in Kansas Territory
to whom lands have been set apart in severalty or by fanilies, and who shall receive patents therefor from the United States, are hereby declared to be, and are, made citizens
of the Territory of Kansas."
Notwithstandin-all this, however, it was plain that a tribal
organization ini all three of the tribes was, to a greater or less
ettent, kept up. Blue Jacket, who filed the bill on behalf
of the Shawnees, was himself the Shawnee head-chief.
There was also a second chief. These Indians had a council, elected for a year, and a clerk of council, and a sheriff,
of their own. Also a place where the council and head-men
met to transact business once in each month. The number
of Indians belonging to the tribe was 860, not including absentees, of whom there were about 250.
The clerk of the council, a white man apparently, who
was a member of the Shawnee tribe of Indians by adoption,
gave the fbllowing account of them:
"I have resided among them since the year 1849. I was the
head of a family. I got eight hundred acres of land as a headright. I have been clerk of the Shawnee council since 1856. I
attend the meetings of the council regularly. I keep a record
of the business transacted in the council. Any difficulties between members of the tribe they sit as a council to determine
the same. Since I have been clerk there have been quite a num.
*

Compiled Laws of Kansas, p. 602.

Dec. 1866.]

TiE KANSAS INDIANS.
Statement of the cases.

her of difficulties settled by the council. Shawnees who die, the
council appoint persons to sell the personal property and pay
the debts. They appoint the men to sell; order the sale to pay
the debts. We keep a record in the council in relation to all the
transactions relating to orphans and the disposal of property of
deceased persons, &c. The last estate settled in the council was
the estate of Eliza Flint, a woman who died in the fall of 1864.
She had but a few things to administer on. There is one estate
which is not yet settled up. It is of a man who died in the fall
of 1864. The council do not order the sale of real estate, and
do not take control of our lands. I am administering, through
the Probate Court of Johnson County, the estate of James Suggott, who was a member of the Shawnee tribe. There is one
minor, and I am the guardian appointed by the Probate Court
of Johnson County. I was curator of an incompetent Indian,
appointed by the Probate Court of Wyandotte County, in
Kansas. The council takes cognizance of offences committed
by one Shawnee against another Shawnee. They determine
the punishment for offences of' Shawnees against Shawnees.
The party found guilty is fined. He is fined the value of the
thing stolen, which is paid to the owner, and a like value paid
to the council, which goes into the council fund. There have
been cases of this kind since I have been clerk, but not a very
great many. The last man that was fined was in 1863; he had
stolen something. Within the last five years there have been
a number of persons punished.. There was one case where a
Shawnee was charged with man laughter. The council found
him guilty, and sentenced him to one hundred lashes, and to be
expelled from the ti ihe. and to lose his annuity; but that sentence
was not executed, owing to the opposition of some of the tribe.
This took place in 1860 or 1861. Itwas just before the war, and
the defendant went into the service. They have hung one man
for murder since 1 was clerk. In the case of William Fish, arrested by the sheriff of Johnson County, for shooting Robert
Bluejacket, the council directed me and. the Shawnee sheriff to
demand him of the sheriff of Johnson County, to be delivered
over to the council for trial. We did so, and he was delivered
up to us. Fish and Bluejacket were both Shawnee Indians.
This took place in 1858; in the fall. He was tried before the
council, and acquitted. The Shawnees have a custom of their
own with regard to marriage. Some marry according to the

746

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the cases.
old custom, and some marry by the minister. Charles Blue.
jacket is our minister. The more enlightened portion go to him
to perform the ceremony. He has a ceremony of his own. Soms
are still married according to the old custom. Each mode of getting married is considered by the Shawnees as valid. I never was
present at an Indian marriage according to the old custom. The
Charles Bluejacket who is minister is the same who is complainant in this case, and head chief. We are a church body alone.
We are not connected to any other church. Charles Bluejacket
is an exhorter, but nothing more. We sell head-rights to white
men, according to the rules prescribed by the Secretary of the
Interior. White men have bought parts of head-rights, made
farms, and planted orchards on the lands they have bought. I
know of two or three cases of this kind. I never voted but
once, that I recollect of. A number of Shawnees voted at the
election for county-seat in 1858. Shawneetown was a candidate. I was judge of township election in 1863. There are
state-and county roads and town roads leading out through
Shawnee lands. There is a road laid out by the county through
my land. I sent my children, at one time, to Mr. Bladget to
school."
Blue Jacket himself testified:
"The sheriff of the Shawnees executed the sentence of death
for the murder referred to by the last witness. This was in the
year 1856 or 1857. They are still in the habit of punishing
Shawnees for offences against Shawnees. We have a national
school fund and a school fund of our own. The interest on the
national school fund is about $5000 per annum. We have what
is called the mission school, carried on under the direction of
the Society of Friends or Quakers. There is a Sunday school
for the Shawnees still kept up at the Quaker Shawnee mission.

The United States have a Shawnee Indiai agent for the Shawnees,
who resides amongst us. The Shawnees have a treaty now pending with the United States. In 1863 the Shawnees, by their head
men, signed a treaty with the United States, and it was sent to
Washington City. It was signed by the men who were appointed
by the nation to make a treaty. It has never been acted on by,
the Senate. This treaty was drawn up in 1864, and is still pend.
ing. I was one of the delegates from the Shawnee nation to
make the treaty."

Dec. 1866.]

TiiE KANSAS INDIANS.
Opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas.

So in regard to THE WEA AND MIAMI TRIBES, it appeared
that each tribe bad its "head mien," who represented it
and transacted its business; receiving funds from the United
States and disbursing then for tribal purposes; the govern.
ment of the United States having an Indian agent for both
tribes, who transacted business with them through their
chiefs and head men at his office.
On the cases corning from the County Court to the Suprene Court of Kansas, the principal case, that of the Shawnees, was twice fully argued. And the court, through its
chief justice, gave an extended and able opinion. No more
of it can be here presented than short and much-mutilated
extracts. Even these, however, will serve to convey some
idea of the line of view had by that tribunal:
"What is the nature of the plaintiffs' title? Have the patentees but a portion of tho title, the remainder being in the government, or have they the whole title?
" It is not material to inquire whether the title of the Shaw-

nees would be correctly described by the technical term ' feesimple.' The true test is, what was the intention of the parties,
as derivable from the treaty and the provisions of the patent,
all taken together, considered with reference to circumstances
existing at the time they were made and issued.
"The policy of the government has been to induce the Indians
to abandon their mode of life, as hunters and warriors, and to
cultivate in them a taste for and aid them ia adopting the- pursuits and manners of civilization. To this end enlightened missionaries have been encouraged to live among them as teachers,
and the vicious of the white race have, so far as was practicable,
been excluded from their country. They have been furnished
with agricultural implements and taught the use of them.
Traders and merchants have been permitted to live among them
and furnish them with supplies, so that they need not depend
upon the spoils of war, or rely upon the uncertain success of the
chase for the necessaries of life. The effect of this policy is seen
in many instances. The nationalities of some of the tribes most
ferocious in history have become extinct, the members thereof
constituting a worthy portion of' the great body politic, undis.
tinguishable from the great mass, except in color or texture.

748

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas.
"'The Shawnees, for the last third of a century, have lived
upon the very borders of civilization, and much of the time in
actual contact with the white race. Many of them have been
gradually losing the distinctive characters of the red man, adopting the habits and modes of life of their fairer-skinned neighbors, and are, and have been for years, thrifty, substantial, industrious husbandmen. On the other hand, others of them still
live the nomadic lives of their fathers, preferring to remain in
habits, mode of life, and in name, Indians. In the country ceded
by them by the treaty of 1854, the former class, under tribal
regulations, were occupying particular portions of their country,
having made thereon farms and other improvements pertaining
to a fixed mode of life. Their reservation would soon be surrounded by white settlements, and be useless to the nomadic
portion as hunting-grounds. There was vastly more of it than
would be necessary for agricultural purposes if every member
of the tribe were to become an independent tiller of the soil.
Good policy dictated that the portion of these lands, which,
under the circumstances, must soon become wholly useless to
the Indians as homes, should be placed in a situation to be occupied by the whites. Upon consultation with the Indians, it
was ascertained that their views and those of tho government
coincided, and immmediate steps were taken for an amicable
arrangement.
"It was competent for the Indians, had they seen proper so
to do, to have selected the whole in a compact body and held
them in common, Had they done so no patents would have
been issued to them, and their title would have been at least the
'Indian title.' But it was not expected that course would be
taken by them. It is apparent from the provision of the treaty
-that some of them desired to hold their shareb in severalty.
Among the more civilized and thrifty of them such a desire
was a very natural one. When the Indian, in pursuance of the
treaty, made his selection of lands to be held by himself in severalty, the title of the tribe, so far as the lands selected were
concerned, vested in him; that is, he took the right of perpetual
use and occupation, Had it been the intention of the framers
of the treaty that he should not acquire a greater title, further
provision was wholly unnecessary, but further provision was in
fact made. The tribe agreed that, under proper restrictions for.
the protection of the patentees, the government might issue pat-

Dec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.
Opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas.

ents for the lands. It was feared, probably, that some of the
patentees might be overreached by their more shrewd and bet.
ter-educated white neighbors, and be deprived of their lands
without adequate compensation. Hence the stipulation. Nothing remained in the government but the ultimate titles, and the
ordinary mode adopted by the government for conveying that
to individuals is by patent in fee-simple. Must not the conclusion be that the object of these patents was to convey to the
Indians the ultimate title? It seems so to the court. But the
correctness of this conclusion is confirmed by the fact that,
when any of these lands are sold by the grantees with the consent of the government, the whole consideration of the sale goes
to the Indian.
"The effect of the restrictions in the patent remains to be considered.
"It need not be argued that it does not operate as a condition.
An attempt by the Indian to convey without the assent of the
Secretary of the Interior does not forfeit his right to the land.
"His act would be wholly void, not affecting his title in any
way. It is not a limitation upon the title, because the whole
title of the government passed when the patent issued.
"The conclusion of the court upon the first point is that the
absolute title to the lands in question was intended to be, and is,
in the Indians and not in the government, and that they must
be held to be taxable if there be no other reason for adjudging
them exempt.
"Second. Are these lands exempt from taxation on the ground
that they belong to the Shawnees? For some purposes at least
the tribal organization of the Shawnees is still maintained, but it
nowhere appears that as a tribe they have a right to or that
they attempt to control in any manner the lands held in severalty by the patentees. The lands not only do not lie in a compact body, but they are widely scattered, being thickly interspersed with the lands and settlements of white persons.
"There is no express prohibition against taxing these lands
or the personal property of the Indians residing upon them.
The treaty does not contain it, nor is it contained in any act of
Congress to which our attention has been directed. In disposing of these lands to the Indians, it doubtless was competent for
the proper branch of the government to have prohibited their

750

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas.

taxation by the State, at least so long as they might remain the
property of the members of an Indian tribe. The exercise of.
such power in this instance must be sought elsewhere than in
express provisions of law or treaty."
The court then distinguished the case from Goodell v.
Jackson,* decided by Chancellor Kent, and from The Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, and W7orcester v. Georgia, in this court;t
which last cases went, the court below observed, on the
ground that the Indians concerned were recognized by the
general government as occupying exclusively a district of
country, in the enjoyrnint of which they were promised the
protection of the United States; the court, in the latter case,
said (page 557): "The treaties and the laws of the United
States contemplate the Indian Territory as completely separate from that of the States." His honor proceeded:
"The ShaWnees do not hold their lands in common, nor are
they contiguously located. It is difficult to conceive of a national existence without a national domain upon which to maintain it. It may be competent for the general government, for
some purposes, to recognize the continued tribal existence of
the Indians, but it never has recognized them as distinct nationalities, except in connection with the country they occupied. It never has treated with them, or legislated in regard to
their affairs, except as the owners and exclusive occupants of a
particular district of country. The Shawnees who own and occupy these selected and patented lands are in precisely the same
situation they would have been in if,instead of giving them two
hundred acres of land apiece, the government had given each
two hundred dollars, which they had used in purchasing each a
quarter of a section of the public lands wherever it could be
found within the State."
On the whole case the conchrsion of the Suoreme Court
of Kansas was:
"That the Shawnees who hold their lands in severalty under
patents from the government have the abstract title thereto;
*20 Johnson, 698.

t" 5 Peters, 1 ; 6 Id. M15.

Dec. 1866.]

Tim KANSAS INDIANS.

751

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Shawnees.

that the lands are subject to taxation, unless exempted specifically by the constitution of this State, or by some paramount
law, and that they are not so exempt."
As respected the MIAMIS, that learned tribunal, on a comparison of the treaty made with them with treaties with
other Indians made at about the same time and penned by
the same person-in which last treaties it was stipulated that
the lands should " not be liable to levy, sale, or execution
oi forfeiture," and at the same time stipulated that they
should not be taxed for a certain term of years, &c.,-held
that the words above quoted had reference to "judicial proceedings alone."
On the cases coming here, the whole three were argued
by Mr. T. A. flendricks, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.
E. P. Stanton, contra; the latter counsel enlarging upon and
enforcing the arguments presented in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Kansas, and as respected the case of the
Shawnees, more prominently, calling attention to the fact
that there was no provision in the treaty of 1854, as there
had been in that of 1831, exempting these lands from taxation, or withdrawing t.hem from the State or Territorial jurisdiction; and so argued that it was plain, when the Indians
ceded all their lands back to the United States, that the
lands were divested of all conditions which had previously
attached to them; and that when the government afterwards
conveyed a part of them to the Indians in severalty, they
were subject only to such conditions as were stipulated by
the new treaty, or expressed on the face of the patents.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court in
all three of the cases ; -a separate opinion in each.
IN THE CASE OP THE SHAWNEES.

The sole question presented by this record is, whether the
lands belonging to the united tribe of Shawnee Indians, residing in Kansas, are taxable?

[:Sup.

THE KAN SAS INDIANS.

Ct.

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Shawnees.

The authorities of the county of Johnson asserting the
right, and the highest court of the State having sustained it,
the question is properly here for consideration. The solution of it depends on the construction of treaties, the relations of the general government to the Indian tribes, and
the laws of Congress. In order to a proper understanding
of the rights of these Indians, it is necessary to give a short
history of some of the treaties that have been made with
them.
In 1825 the Shawnee tribe was divided--part being in
Missouri and part in Ohio. The Missouri Shawnees we'in
possession of valuable lands near Cape Girardeau, and in
that year* ceded them, by treaty, to the United States, and,
in consideration of the cession, received for their use, and
those of the same nation in Ohio, who chose to join them,
a tract of country in Kansas, embracing fifty square miles.
In pursuance of the favorite policy of the government to
persuade all the Indian tribes east of the Mississippi to migrate and settle on territory, to be secured to them, west of
that river, in 1831,T a convention was concluded with the
Ohio Shawnees-they being willing to remove West, in
order to obtain "a more permanent and advantageous home
for themselves and their posterity." In exchange for valuable lands and improvements in Ohio, they obtained, by
patent, in fee-simple to them and their heirs forever, so long
as they shall exist as a nation, and remain upon the same,
one hundred thousand acres of land, to be located under
the direction of the President of the United States, within
the tract granted in 1825 to the Missouri Shawnees.
This treaty contained words of promise that the same
care, superintendence, and protection, which had been extended over them in Ohio, should be assured to them in the
country to which they were to remove, and also a guarantee
that their lands should never be within the bounds of any
State or Territory, nor themselves subject to the laws
thereof. In obedience to the obligations of this treaty, they
*7

Stat. at Large, 284.

t Id. 356.

Dec. "1866.-]

TIIE

KANSAS

INDIANS.

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Shawnees.

removed and united with their brethren, who had preceded
them from Missouri, but were soon met by the advancing
tide of civilization. In view of the rapid increase of population in the Kansas country, and the small number of
Shawnees-the tribe does not now contain over twelve hundred souls-it was deemed advisa)le to lessen their territorial limits.
Accordingly another treaty was concluded with them on
the 2d day of November, 1854.* By this treaty the united
Shawnee nation ceded to the United States all the large domain granted to them by the treaty of 1825. In consideration for this cession, two hundred thousand acres of these
same lands were receded to them, and they also obtained
annuities and other property. This treaty was peculiar in
sorhe of its provisions. It did not contemplate that the Indians should enjoy the whole tract, as the quantity for each
individual was limited to two hundred acres. The unselected lands were to be sold by the government, and the
proceeds appropriated to the uses of the Indians. It also
recognized that part of the lands selected by the Indians
could be held in common, and part in severalty. If held in
common, they were to be assigned in a compact body; if in
severalty, the privilege was conceded of selecting anywhere
in the tract outside of the common lands.
The Indians who held separate estates were to have patents issued to them, with such guards and restrictions as
Congress should deem advisable for their protectio.i. Congress afterwardst directed the lands to be patented, subject
to such restrictions as the Secretary of the Interior might
impose; and these lands are now held by these Indians, under patents, without power of alienation, except by consent
of the Secretary of the Interior. This treaty was silent
about the guarantees of the treaty of 1831; but the Shawnees
expressly acknowledged their dependence on the government
of the United States, as formerly they had done, and invoked
its protection and care. Prior to the ratification of this treaty
10 Stat. at Large, 1063.
VOL. V.

' 11 Id. 430
48

754

THE

KANSAS

INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Shawnees.

(although not before it wras signed) the organic act for the
Territory of Kansas was passed, and on the 29th of January,
1861, Kansas was admitted into the Union; but the rights of
the Indians, the powers of Congress over them, their lands,
and property, and the stipulations of treaties, were fully
preserved, and in the same words, both in the organic act
and the act for the admission of Kansas.
The Ohio Shawnees, when they ceded their lands in Ohio,
did it in pursuance of an act of Congress of May 28, 1830,*
which assured them the country to which they were translated should be secured and guaranteed to them and their
heirs forever. The well-defined policy of. the government
demanded the removal of the Indians from organized
States, and it was supposed at the time the country selected
for them was so remote as never to be needed for settlement.
This policy was deemed advantageous to their interests, a'
it separated them from the corrupting influences of bad
white men, and secured for them a permanent home. It is
plain to be seen, that the covenants with the Shawnees in
the treaty of 1861, that they should not be subject to the
laws of organized States or Territdries, nor their lands included within their boundaries, unless with their own consent, signified to the President, must have materially influenced their decision to part with their Ohio possessions and
join their brethren in Kansas. They, therefore, removed
under the assured protection of the government, to enjoy, as
they expected, in perpetuity, free from encroachment, a
home adapted to their habits and customs. But these expectations were not to be realized, for the spirit of American
enterpilise, in a few years, reached their country, and the
same white population that pressed upon them in Ohio and
Missouri followed them there.
Thie present and future wants of this population created
the necessity for.the treaty of 1854, and the segregation cf
lands allowed by it, in connection with the power to sell
these unselected tracts, invited what followed-a mixed oc.
4 Stat. at Large, 411.

Dec. 1866.]

Tim

KANSAS INDIANS.

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Shawnees.

cupancy of the same territory by the red and white menthe very matter which dictated the removal of the Indians
from the older States.
It is insisted, as the guarantees of the treaty of 1831 are
not, in express words, reaffirmed in the treaty of 1854, they
are, therefore, abrogated, and that the division of the Indian
territory into separate estates, so changes the status of the
Indians that the property of those who hold in severalty is
liable to State taxation. It is conceded that those who hold
in common cannot be taxed. If such are the effects of this
treaty, they were evidently not in the contemplation of one
of the parties to it, and it could never have been intended
by the government to make a distinction in favor of the Indians who held in common, and against those who held in
severalty. If the Indians thus holding had less rights than
their more favored brethren, who enjoyed their possessions
in common, and in compact form, would not good faith have
required that it should have been so stated in the treaty?
The general pledge of protection substantially accorded in
this treaty, as in all the other treaties with this tribe, forbids
the idea that government intended to' Withdraw its protection from one part of the tribe and extend it to the other.
But, it is not necessary to import the guarantees of the
treaty of' 1831 into that of 1854, in order to save the property of the entire tribe from State taxation. If the necessities of the case required us to do so, we should hesitate to
declare that, in the understanding of the parties, the promises under which the treaty of 1831 were made, and the
guarantees contained in it, were all abandoned when the
treaty of 1854 was concluded. If the tribal organization of
the Shawnees is preserved intact, and recognized by the political department of the government as existing, then they
are a "people distinct from others,." capable of making
treaties, separated from the jurisdiction of Kansas, and to
be governed exclusively by the government of
the Union.
I' under the control of Congress, from necessity there can
be no divided authority. If they have outlived many things,
they have not outlived the protection affbrded by the Con-

756

TiE KANSAS INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the -court: In the case of the Shawnees.

stitution, treaties, and laws of Congress. It may be, that
they cannot exist much longer as a distitct people in the
presence of the civilization of Kansas, " but until they are
clothed with therights and bound to all the duties of citizens," they enjoy the privilege of total immunity from State
taxation. There can be no question of State sovereignty in
the case, as Kansas accepted her admission into the family
of States on condition that the Indian rights should remin
unimpaired and the general government at liberty to make
any regulation respecting them, their lands, property, or
other rights, which it would have been competent to make
if Kansas had not been admitted into the Union. The treaty
of 1854 left the Shawnee people a united tribe, with a declaration of their dependence on the National government for
protection and the vindication of their rights. Ever since
this their tribal organization has remained as it was before.
They have elective chiefs and an elective council; meeting
at stated periods; keeping a record of their proceedings;
with powers regulated by custom; by which they punish
offences, adjust differences, and exercise a general oversight
over the affairs of the nation. This people have their own
customs and laws by which they are governed. Because
some of those customs have been abandoned, owing to the
proximity of their white neighbors, may be an evidence of
the superior influence of our race, but does not tend to
prove that their tribal organization is not preserved. There
is no evidence in the record to show that the Indians with
separate estates have not the same rights in the tribe as
those whose estates are held in common. Their machinery
of government, though simple, is adapted to their intelligence and wants, and effective, with faithful agents to watch
over them. If broken into, it is the natural result of Shawnees and whites owning adjoining plantations, and living
and trafficking together as neighbors and friends. But the
action of the political department of the government settles,
beyond controversy, that the Shawnees are as yet a distinct
people, with a perfect tribal organization. Within a very
recent period their head men negotiated a treaty with the

Dec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.
Opinion of the court: In the case of the Weas.

United States, which, for some reason not explained in the
record, was either not sent to the Senate, or, if sent, not
ratified, and they are under the charge of an agent who constantly resides with them. While the general government
has a superintending care over their interests, and continues
to treat with them as a nation, the State of Kansas is estopped from denying their title to it. She accepted this
status when she accepted the act admitting her into the
Union. Conferring rights and privileges on these Indians
cannot affect their situation, which can only be changed by
treaty stipulation, or a voluntary abandonment of their tribal
organization. As long as the United States recognizes their
national character they are under the protection of treaties
and the laws of Congress, and their property is withdrawn
from the -operation of State laws.
It follows, from what has been said, that the Supreme
Court of Kansas erred in not perpetuating the injunction
and granting the relief prayed for.
IN

THE CASE OF THE WEAS.

The opinion just rendered in the case of Blue Jacket,
representing the united tribe of Shawnee Indians, controls
the decision of this case. The relations of the general government to the Wea tribe, and their relations to the State of
Kansas, are settled by the agreed statement of facts in the
record, in connection with the treaty of 10th August, 1854.*
This tribe being weak in numbers, united with three other
tribes, equally weak, and ceded to the United States large
possessions obtained under former treaties, reserving for
each individual only one hundred and sixty acres of land,
and ten sections for the commonproperty of the united tribes,
with one section in addition, for the American Indian Mission Association. The reservation of the limited quantity
for each individual was not to be in a compact body. Indi.
10 Stat. at Large, 1082.

THE

KANSAS

INDIANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Weas.

viduals and heads of families had the right of selection, as
in the Shawnee treaty, and the lands were to be patented,
with restrictions upon alienation, as the President or Con.
gress should prescribe. The unselected lands were to be
sold, and the proceeds paid over to the Indians. This policy
produced, as in the case of the Shawnees, a mixed occupancy
of the original Indian territory, arid, in consequence, the
same difficulties. These difficulties must have been foreseen by the people of Kansas and the general government,
but could not have been within the apprehension of the
limited intelligence of the Indians. The basis of the treaty,
doubtless, was, that the separation of estates and interests,
would so weaken the tribal organization as to effect its voluntary abandonment, and, as a natural result, the incorporat;on of the Indians with the great body bf the people.
But this result, desirable as it may be, has not yet been
accomplished with the Wea tribe, and, therefore, their lands
cannot be taxed. It is conceded, that the tribal organization is kept up and maintained in the county of Miami,
where they live, and where the annuities are paid to them,
under the supervision of the Indian agent of the tribe.
And it-is further conceded, that the chiefs and head men of
the tribe, represent it and transact its business, receive funds
from the United.States for tribal purposes and disburse it,
ard that an agent for the tribe resides in the county, where
he transacts the business of the United States with the tribe
through their chiefs and head men. These concessions
ploce the Wea Indians in the same category with the Shawnees.
It is argued, because the Indians seek the courts of Kansas for the preservation of rights and the redress of wrongs,
sometimes voluntarily, and in certain specified cases by di,rection of the Secretary of the Interior, that they submit
themselves to all the laws of the State. But the conduct of
Indians is not to be measured by the same standard, which
we apply to the conduct of other people. Kansas is not
obliged to confer any rights on them. Because a sound
policy may dictate the wisdom of treating them, in some

Dec. 1866.]

THE KANSAS INDIANS.

759

Opinion of the court: In the case of the Mliamis.

respects, as she treats her own citizens, and thereby weaning them from the ancient attachment to their own customs,
they are none the less a separate people, under the protection of the general government. This policy may eventually succeed in disbanding the tribe, but until it does, the
Indians cannot look to Kansas for protection, nor can the
general laws of tihe State taxing real estate within its limits
reach their property.
But, it is said, the protection promised the Shawnees is
not accorded to the Weas, in the treaty of August, 1854.
Not so, for in the tenth article, they agree " to comnmit no
wrong on ,ither Indian or citizen ; and if difficulties should
arise, to abide by the laws of the United States in such cases
made and provided, as they expect to be protected and have
their rights vindicated by those laws." Did iot the government accord to them the protection invoked, l1y executing
the treaty? It surely did not need that the United States
should say in words, we agree to protect you and vindicate
your rights. But the 11th article fixes beyond dispute the
reciprocal relations of the general government and these
Indians. It declares the object of the treaty is to advance
the interests of the Indians; and if it should prove ineffectual, " it was agreed that the President, with the advice and
consent of the Senate, should adopt such policy in the management of their affairs as in his judgment should be proper,
or Congress might make such provision by law as experience should prove. to be necessary." How fll the powers
of the President or Congress extend under this article, it is
unnecessary to discuss or decide. It is sufficient to say, that
it leaves the Indians most clearly under the prote.,tion of the
general government, and withdraws their property from the
jurisdictioi of Kansas.
IN THE CASE or, THE MIAMIS.

The principle of the foregoing cases of the Shawnee and
Wea tribes of Indians, is also decisive of this controversy.
The Miami tribe hold their head rights in severalty, by vir

[Sup. -Ct

TIiE KANSAS INDIANS.
Opinion of the court: En the case of the Miamis,

tue of the provisions of the treaty which was proclaimed by
"the President on the 4th of August, 1854.*
It is unnecessary to pursue the history of this tribe through
the various treaties which have been concluded between
them and the United States. It is sufficient to state that
they are a nation of people, recognized as such by the general government in the making of treaties with them, and
the relations always maintained towards them, and cannot,
therefore, be taxed by the authorities of Kansas. Their
tribal organization is fully preserved, and they are under
the supervision of an agent, who resides in the county where
their lands are situated. It is not necessary to decide, until
the question arises, what powers have been confeirred on
Congress, or the President, by virtue of the 11th article of
the treaty of 1854, being the same as the 11th article of the
Wea treaty. There is, however, one provision in the Miami
treaty-being in addition to the securities furnished the
Shawnees and Weas-which, of itself, preserves the Miami
lands from taxation. This particular provision exempts the.
lands from " levy, sale, execution, and forfeiture." It is argued, that these words refei to a levy and sale under judicial proceedings, but such a construction would be an exceedingly narrow one, whereas enlarged rules of construction are adopted in reference to Indian treaties. In speaking
)f these rules, Chief Justice Marshall says: "The language
used in treaties with the Indians shall never be construed to
their prejudice, if words be made use of which are susceptible of a more extended meaning than their plain import as
connected with the tenor of their treaty."t
Applying this principle to the case in hand, is it not evident that the words "levy, sale, and forfeiture" are susceptible of a meaning, which would extend them to the ordinary
proceedings for the collection of taxes ? Taxes must be first
levied, and they cannot be realized without the power of
sale and forfeiture, in case of non-payment. The position,
it seems to us, is too plain for argument. The object of the
* t0 Stat. at Large, 1093.

t6 :Peters, 682.

Dec. 1866.]

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.
Statement of the case.

treaty was to hedge the lands around with guards and restrictions, so as to preserve them for the permanent homes
of the Indians. In order to accomplish this object, they
must be relieved from every species of levy, sale, and forfeiture-from a levy and sale for taxes, as well as the ordinary judicial levy and sale.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas in all three
cases was REVERSED, and the causes remanded, with directions
to enter a j udgment in conformity with the opinions above
given in the several cases.

THE NEW YORK INDIANS.
1. Where Indians, being in possession of lands, their ancient and native
homes, the enjoyment of which, "without disturbance by the United
States," has been secured to them by treaty with the Federal government, with the assurance that." the lands shall remain theirs until they
choose to sell them," the State in which the lands lie has no power to
tax them, either for ordinary town and county purposes or for the special purpose of surveying them and opening roads through them.-The
case of The Kansas Indians (supra, p. 787), approved.
2. A statute of a State authorizing a sale of such lands for taxes so laid, is
void, even though the statute provide that "no sale, for the purpose of
collecting the tax, shall, in any manner, affect the right of the Indians
to occupy the land."
3. Where Indians, under arrangements approved by the United States, agree
to sell their lands to private citizens, and to give possession of them at
the expiration of a term of years named, a taxation of the lands before
the efflux of the term is premature; even though a sale for the nonpayment of the taxes might not take place until after the time when,
if they fulfilled their agreements, the Indians would have left the land;
and even though any sale would be st'.ject to the proviso named in the
preceding paragraph.
4. A deed under a sale for taxes, and purporting to convey the lands to the
purchaser, even with the qualification of such a proviso as that in the
third paragraph, would, in law, be a disturbance of the Indian tribe.
ERROR to the Court of Appeals of New York; the case
being thus:
In 1786, qnd before the adoption, therefore, of the Fed-

