DECISIONS
IN

TH

SUPREME COURT OF TIlE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1866.

THE SPRINGBOK.
1. Though invocation, in prize cases, is not regularly made on original
hearing, but only after a cause has been fully heard on the ship's documents and the preparatory proofs, and where suspicious, circumstances
appear from these; yet where the court below, in the exercise of iis discretion, has allowed it on first hearing, the decree will not necessarily
be reversed; decrees of condemnation having passed in both the cases
invoked, one pro confesso and the other by a: decree of the highest appellate court.
2. Where the papers of a ship sailing under a charter-party are all genuine
and regular, and show a voyage between ports neutral within the meaning of international law; where there has been no concealment nor
spoliation of them; where the stipulations of the charter-party in favor
of the owners are apparently in good faith; where the owners are neutrals, have no interest in the cargo, and have not previously in any way
violated neutral obligations, and there is no sufficient proof that they
have any knowledge of the unlawful destination of the cargo,-in such
a case, its aspect being otherwise fair, the vessel will not be condemned
because the. neutral port to which it is sailing has been constantly and
notoriously used as a port of call and transshipment by persons engaged
in systematic violation of blockade and in the conveyance of contraband
6f war, and was meant by the owners of the cargo carried on this ship
to be so used in regard to it.
3. The facts that the master declared himself ignorant as to what a part of
his cargo, of which invoices were not on board (having been sent by mail
to the port of destination), consisted,-such part having been contraband; and also declared himself ignorant of the cause of capture, when
his mate, boatswain and steward all testified that they understood it to
be the vessel's having contraband on board,-held not sufficient, of
VOL. V.

1

( 1)

THE SPRINGBOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
themselves, to infer guilt to the owners of the vessel, in no way compromised with the cargo. But the misrepresentation of the master as
to ,his knowledge of the ground of capture, held to deprive the owners
of costs on restoration.
4, A cargo was here condemned for intent to run a blockade, where the
vessel was sailing to a port such as that above described, the bills of
lading disclosing the contents of 619 packages of 2007, which made the
cargo, the contents of the remnAning 1388 .being not disclosed; where
both they and the manifest made the cargo deliverable to order, the
:uaster being directed by his letter of instructions to report himself on
arrival at the neutral port to H., who "would give him orders as to the
delivery of his cargo ;" where a certain fraction of the cargo whose contents were undisclosed was specially fitted for the enemy's military use,
and a larger part capable of being adapted to it; where other vessels
owned by the owners of the cargo, and by the charterer, and sailing ostensibly for neutral ports were, on invocation, shown to have been engaged
in blockade-running, many packages on one of the vessels, and numbered in a broken series of numbers, finding many of the complemental
numbers on the vessel now under adjudication; where no application
was made to take further proof in explanation of these facts, and the
claim of the cargo, libelled at New York, was not personally sworn to
by either of the persons owning it, resident in England, but was sworn
to by an agent at New York, on "information and belief."
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, respecting
the British bark Springbok and her cargo,, which had been
captured at sea by the United States gunboat Sonoma during
the late rebellion, and libelled in the said court for prize.
The vessel was owned by May & Co., British subjects, and
was commanded by James May, son of one of the owners.
She had been chartered 12th November, 1862, by authority of May, the captain, to T. S. Begbie, of London, to take
a full cargo of

"Lawful merchandise, and therewith proceed to Nassau, or so
near thereunto as she may safely get, and deliver same, on being
paid freight as follows, &c.: The freight to be paid one-half in
advance on clearance from custom-house, subject to insurance,
and the remainder in cash on delivery. Bills of lading are to
be signed by master at current rate of freight, if required, without prejudice to this charter-party. It being agreed that master
or owners have absolute lien on cargo for all freight, dead freight,

Dec. 1866.]

T~iii SPRINGBOKC.
Statement of the case.

demurrage, oi other charges.

The ship is to be consigned to

the charterer's agent at port of unloading, free of commission,

Thirty running days are allowed the freighter for loading at
2ort of loading and discharging at Nassau."
This document had an Indorsement on it by Speyer &
Hfaywood, persons hereinafter described.
The letter of instructions to the master was thus:
"LoNDoN,
"CAPTAIN

December 8, 1862.

JAMES MAY.

"1Dbear Sir,-Your vessel being now loaded, you will proceed
at once to the port of Nassau, NV.P., and on arrivalreport yourself
to Mr. B. W. hart there, who will give you orders as to the delivery
of your cargo and any further information you may require.
"We are, dear sir, &e.,
"-SPEYER & HAYWOOD,
"For the Charterers."

The letter to the agent of the consignee, directed "B. W.
Hart, Nassau," and from these same persons, Speyer & Hey.
wood, was thus:
"Under instructions from Messrs. Isaac, Carnpbell & Co., of Jermyn Street, we inclose you bills of lading for goods shipped per
Springbok, consigned to you."
The London custom-house certificate was "from London
to Nassau;" the certificate of clearance declared the "destination of voyage, Nassau, N. P. ;" and the manifest was of a
cargo from .'London to Nassau."
The log-book was headed, "Log-book of the bark Springbok, on a voyage from London to Nassau."
The shipping articles, November, 1862, were of a British
crew, "on a voyage from London to Nassau, _ . P.; thence, if
required, to any other port of the West India Islands, Ameriean ports, British North America, east coast of South America and back to the final port of discharge in the United
Kingdom or continent of Europe, between the Elbe and
Brest, and finally to a port in the United Kingdor; Voyage
probably under twelve mn)nths."

THE SPRING30K.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

The cargo, valued at £66,000, was covered by three bills
of lading (of which two were duplicated, the duplicates
marked Captain's copies), hs follows:
Bill of lading marked No. 2, showed "666 packages merchandise," shipped by Moses Brothers, to be delivered, &c.,
at port of Nassau, N. P., unto order - or to assigns,
he or they paying freight, as per charter-party. It was
indorsed by Moses Brothers in blank. This bill of lading
on its face showed 150 chests and 150 half-chests tea, 220
bags coffee, 4 cases ginger, 39 bags pimento, 1) bags cloves,
and 60 bags pepper-in all, 613 packages. The remaining
53 were entered as cases, kegs, and casks. These 53 packages
were found, when the cargo was more closely examined, to
contain medicines and sallpetre; matters at that time much
needed in the Southern States, then under blockade.
Bill of lading No. 3, showed one bale and one case shipped
by Speyer & iaywood, to be delivered at Nassau, unto order
or to assigns, &c., paying freight as per charterparty.
Bill of lading No. 4, showed 1339 packages shipped by
Speyer & Iaywood to Nassau, as above. These 1339 packages were also described as cases, bales, boxes, and a trunk.
This was also indorsed in blank.
The manifest gave no more specific, description of the
character of the cargo. It was signed Speyer & Haywood,
brokers, and showed that the whole cargo was consigned
to "order."
An examination of the packages in bills Nos. 3 and 4
showed 540 pairs of "gray army blankets," like those used
in the army of the United States, and 24 pairs of " white
blankets;" 360 gross of brass navy buttons, marked
"C. S. N.,"* 10 gross of army buttons, marked "A.,"t 397
gross of army buttons, marked "I.":j: and 148 gross of army
buttons, marked " C.,"§ being in all 555 gross; all the buttons were stamped on the under side, "Isaac, Campbell &
Confederate States Navy ?
I Tnfantr, ?

t Artillery?
Cavalry?

Dec. 1866.]

THE~SPRINGBOK.
Statement of the case.

Co., 71 Jermyn st., London." There were 8 cavalry sabres,
having the British crown on their guards; 11 sword bayonets, 992 pairs of army boots, 97 pairs of russet brogans, and
47 pairs of cavalry boots, &c.
The vessel set sail from London, December 8th, 1862, and
was captured February 3d, 1863, making for the harbor of
Nassau, in the British neutral island of New Providence,
and about 150 miles east of that place. The port, which lay
not very far from a part of the southern coast of the United
States, it was matter of common knowledge had been largely
used as one for call and transshipment of cargoes intended
for the ports of the insurrectionary States of the Union, then
under blockade by the Federal government.* The vessel
when captured made no resistance; and all her papers were
given up without attempt at concealment or spoliation.
Being brought into the port of New York, arid libelled
there as prize, February 12, 1863, a claim was put in on
the 9th of March following, by Captain May for his father
and others as owners of the vessel. On the 24th of the same
month a claim for the whole cargo was put in for Isaac,
Campbell & Co., and also for Begbie, through one Kursheet,
their "agent and attorney;" Kursheet stating in his affidavit
in behalf of these owners, that "it is impossible to communicate with them in time to allow them to make the claim and test
affidavit herein." His affidavit stated farther,
That, as he is informed and believes, it was not intended that
the barque should attempt to enter any port of the United
States, or that her cargo should be delivered at any such port,
but that the only destination of such cargo was Nassau aforesaid, where the said cargo was to be actually disposed of,and proceeds remitted to said claimants.
"That, as he is informed and believes, the cargo was not shipped
in pursuance of any understanding,either directly ec indirectly,
with any of the enemies of the United States, or with any per.
son or persons in behalf of or connected with the so-called Con.
* See the F-rmuda, 8 Wallace, 514.

TiiE SPIgGBOK.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

federate States of America, but was shipped with the full, fair,
and honest intent to sell and dispose of the same absolutely in
the market of Nassau aforesaid.
"That his information is derived from letters and communications
very lately received by this deponent from the aforesaidclaimants, and
from documents in deponent's possession, placed there by said
claimants, and that such communications authorize this deponent
to intervene and act as agent as well as proctor and advocatefor the
said claimants as to the above cargo."
The master, mate, and steward, were .examined as witnesses in preparatorio:
The master stated, that the goods were to be delivered
at Nassau for account and risk of Begbie & Co., London, the
charterers; that he did not know that the laders or consignees
had any interest in the goods; that he knew nothing of the
-qualities, quantities, or particulars of the goods or to whom
they would belong if restored and delivered at the destined
port; that he was not aware that there were goods contraband of war on board; that, as he believed, invoices and duplicate- bills of lading were sent to Nassau by mail steamer;
that there were no false bills of lading, nor any passports or
sea-briefs other than the usual register and ship's papers,
which were entirely true and fair; that he did not know on what
pretence she was captured; that there were no persons on
board owing allegiance to the United States; that on the
vessel's previous voyage, she went from London to Jamaica,
carrying general merchandise, and returned direct, carrying
principally logwood.
The mate, who to a greater or less extent confirmed
these
statements, swore that the cargo was a general cargo;' casks,
bales, boxes, and bags; that he had no knowledge, information, or belief as to what was contained in them, and' had
never heard. Ile knew of no goods contraband of war; no
arms or munitions of war that he know of " The seizure,"
he stated, " was nlade'on the supposition that the cargo was contraband of war."
The boatswain testified to the same purpose of the voyage;
that th(, vessel had no colors but English aboard; that the

.Dec. 1866.]

THE

SPRINGBOK.

Statement of the case.

cargo was general, in bales, cases, and bags, that he did not
know their contents and never had heard them stated; and
that he " understood the seizure was made because the bills
of lading did not show what was in some of the cases on board."
The steward, that he "understood the vessel was captured
because we had goods contrabandof war aboard; had heard no
other reason given."
Upon the hearing in the District Court, the counsel for
the captors invoked into the case the proofs taken in two
other cases, on the docket of that court for trial at the same
time with the present one, the cases, namely, of United States
v. The Steamer Gertrude, and United States v. The Schooner
Stephen Hart.
The Hart was captured on the 29th of January, 1862,
between the. southern, coast of Florida and the Island of
Cuba. The claimants of her whole cargo were the firm of
Isaac, Campbell & Co., the same persons who claimed, jointly
with Begbie, the cargo of the Springbok. It also appeared
in the case of the Hart, that the brokers who had charge
of the lading of her cargo were Speyer & Iaywood, the same
parties who appeared as brokers of the cargo in the present
case, and as shippers of a part of it, and as agents for Begbie and for I., C. & Co. It appeared, in the case of the
1hart, that I., C. &"Co. were dealers in military goods, and
that the entire cargo of that vessel, consisting of' arms, munitions of war, and military equipments, was laden, on board
of her in England, under the direction of I., C. & Co., in
co-operation with the agents, at London, of the " Confederate States," with the design that the cargo should run the
blockade into a port of the enemy, either in the Hart, or in
a vessel into which the cargo should be transshipped at some
place in Cuba, and that I., C. & Co. intrusted to the agent
of the " Confederate States" in Cuba, the determination of
the question as to the mode in which the cargo should be
transported into the enemy's port. The cargo of the Hart
had been condemned by the Supreme Court, as lawful prize,
at the last term.*
3 Wallace, 559.

T~it

SPiING BOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The Gertrude was captured on the 16th of April, 1863, in
the Atlantic Ocean, off one of the Bahama Islands, while
on a voyage ostensibly from Nassau to St. John's, N. B.
The libel was filed against her on the 23d of April, 1863,
and she was condemned, with her cargo, as lawful prize, on
the 21st of July, 1863. No claim was put in to either the
Gertrude or her cargo. The testimony showed that she belonged to Begbie; that her cargo consisted, among other
things, of hops, dry goods, drugs, leather, cotton cards,
paper, 3960 pairs of gray army blankets, 335 pairs of white
blankets, linen, woollen shirts, flannel, 750 pairs of army
brogans, Congress gaiters, and 24,900 pounds of powder;
that she was captured aftera chase of three hours, and when
making for the harbor of Charleston, her master knowing
of its blockade, and having on board a Charleston pilot
under an assumed name.
The marshal's report of the contents of the packages on
board of the Springbok, and of the prize commissioners'
report of the contents of the packages of the Gertrude, disclose the following facts:
The report in the ca~e of the Springbok specified "18
bales of army blankets, butternut color," each marked A,
in a diamond, and numbered 544 to 548, 550, 552, and 555 to
565. The report in the case of the Gertrude showed a large
number of bales of " army blankets," each marked A, in a
diamond, and numbered with numbers, scattered from 243
to 534, and then commencing to renumber again at 600.
In the cargo of the Springbok was found a bale marked
A, in a diamond, and numbered 779; while in the cargo of
the Gertrude were found bales each marked A, in a diamond,
and numbered 780, 782, 784, 786, 788, 789 to 799.
In the Spriugbok were found 9 cases, each marked A, in
a diamond, and numbored 976 to 984, and 4 bales, each
marked A, in a diamond, and numbered 985 to 987 and 989,
by the same marks; the 4 bales being stated to be "men's.
colored 'travelling shirts." In the Gertrude were found 5
bales, each marked A, in a diamond, and numbered 998, 990,
to 992 and 998, and described as "men's colored travelling

Dec. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.
Argument for the claimants.

shirts." In the Hart were 4 caoes of men's white shirts,
each marked A, in a diamond, and numbered 994 to 997.
So, also, in the Springbok were fo-und packages, each
marked A, in a diamond, S. I, C.& Co., and numbered irregularly and with considerable hiatus, from 1221 up to 1440.
But there was no 1285 among them, the hiatlts being from
1266 to 1289, which last was the first of several having
"shirts."
On the Gertrude were packages marked A, in a
diamond, numbered from 1170 to 1214, also one numbered
1285, and found to contain " shirts."
On board of the Springbok was found 1 bale of brown
wrapping paper, marked A, in a diamond, T. S. & Co., atid
numbered 264. On board of the Gertrude a large number
of bales of wrapping paper and other paper, marked A, in a
diamond, T. S. & Co., and numbered with numbers scattered
between 1 and 170.
In only one instance, apparently, so far as the testimony
showed, was the same number found on a package in each
cargo.
On the other hand, many marks were found on the one
vessel not found on the other.
No application was made in the court below for leave to
furnish further proofs.
The court below condemned both vesset and cargo.
Messrs. Carlisle and El3dwards for the appellants, claimantsin
the case:
1. As to the invocation.-The papers in the cases of The Hart
and The Gertrude were introduced against well-established
principles of international law. For the well-settled rule
of practice in prize is, that ekclusively upon a ship's papers
and the examinations in preparatoriothe cuse is to be heard
in the first instance.* " The evidence to acquit or condemn,
with or without costs or damages, must," says the highest
English authority, "in the first instance, come. merely from
The Dos Hermanos, 2 Wheaton, 76; The Pizarro, Id. 227; The Ainiable Isabella, 6 Il. 1.
-

THrE SPRINGBOK.

ISup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

the ship taken, viz., the papers on board and the examination on oath of the master and other principal officers."*
The English cases of invocationt are all cases after further
proof. The cases in our own courts coupled with invocation are to the same effect: The George was one for further
proof,-" permission to make further proof." The Experi.
menl§ was of the same character. " The captors," says the
case, "have had full notice of the difficulties of their case,
and after an orderfor further proof, which should awaken extraordinary diligence," &c., &c.
And even further proof, which is the portal through which
invocation must come, is rarely allowed, unless there be
something in the original evidence which lays a suggestion
for prosecuting the inquiry further.Ii Where the case is
not liable to any just suspicion, the disposition of' the court
leans strongly against the introduction of extraneous matter,
and against permitting the captors to enter upon further inquiry. The most ordinary cases of further proof are where
the cause appears doubtful upon the original papers and the
answers to the standing interrogatories.
Aside from rules, the principle, in cases of invocation, is
that the suit invoked from should be between the same
parties.
In this case there is invocation of two ex parte reports of cargoes, made by United States prize commissioners
in the absence of claimants; and also a United States libel.
"It is essential," says Story, J., in The Don flermanos, in
this court,** "to the correct administration of prize law, that
the regular modes of proceeding should be observed with
the utmost strictness."
Even depositions taken on further proof in one prize case,
Report of Sir George Lee, Dr. Paul, Sir Dudley Ryder, and Mr. Mur.
ray (Lord Mansfield), contained in the letter of Sir William Scott and Dr.
Nicoll to John Jay, Esq. Wheaton on Captures, Appendix, 310.
t The'Sarah, 3 Robinson, 3380; The Vrcndschap, 4 Id. 166; The Romeo,
6 Id. 367; The Zulema, 1 Acton, 14.
1 Wheaton, 408.

I The Sarah,

=Robinson, 330.

x* 2 Wheaton, 80.

8 Id. 261.

Dearle v. Southwell, 2 Lee, 98.

Dec. 1 i'66.]

THE SPRINGBOK.
Argument for the claimants.

cannot be invoked in another ;* by parity, the documents in.
voked in the present case ought to be excluded.
2. As respects caiqo.-The suit stands clear of blockade
and of enemy property. The ship's papers are genuine; in
perfect order.
It is not asserted that the bills of lading do not tally with
the marks, &c. Invoices were to be sent forward, as is now
customary, by steamer. An invoice is not a "ship's paper;"
a manifest is. The former is made out by a shipper to and
for his own agent and consignee, so as to show price and
charges. The master has io control over an invoice. Whenever it happens to be on board, it is inclosed in a sealed
letter from shipper to consignee. The captain cannot know
anything of cargo which is boxed up or contained in bales,
save so thr as they are mentioned in bills of lading, upon
which he wisely puts " Contents unknown." The charterparty in this case was made free of commissions, so there
was less requirement for an invoice. And invoices carry
with them little authenticity, being easily fabricated where
fraud is intended.
Even where all necessary and ordinary ship's papers are
not on board (an invoice is not strictly one of them), a court
will look into all circumstances before condemnation, or will
allow of further proof.t
It is not to be forgotten that as the Springbok was going
from a British port and bound to another English port, an
invoice was in no way required. No duties were payable,
and, therefore, an invoice was not wanted in connection with
coffee, ginthem. And the reason why the articles of tea,
ger, pimento, cloves, and pepper are specified on bills of
lading was, that these articles are foreign to Etu-land, and
are, by rule and custom, to be designated, from the fact of
being dutiable, and the country requires to know, through
periodical returns, the quantity of goods, subject to duty,
which have been transshipped.
The Experiment, 4 Wheaton, 84.
1 Pratt's Law of Contraband, Introd. xii; Story, Justice, in The Amia.
ble Nancy, 3 Wheaton, 561.

12

THE SPRINGBOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

A neutral, it must be remembered, has a right to carry
any kind of merchandise from one neutral port to another
neutral port. It may consist of warlike weapons and their
appliances. The substance of the article does not make it
contraband. It does not even get its name "contraband"
until it is going, positively moving, to an enemy's port-a
hostile port. In order to constitute contraband of war, two
elements must concur, viz., a hostile quality and a hostile
destination. If either of these elements is wanting, there
can be no such thing as contraband.
{ostile goods, such
as munitions of war, going to a neutral port, are not contraband.
"It would be too high for any such court of julstice as
this," said Sir George Hay, in The Ilendric and Alida,* "to
assert ,that the Dutch may not carry, in their own ships, to
their own colonies and settlements, everything they please,
whether arms or ammunition or any other species of merchandise, provided they do it with the permission of their
own laws. And if they act contrary to them, I am no Judge
of the laws of Holland. I cannot enforce diem."
Although contraband does not arise, still, supposing that
the case could be tortured into a something which might
have a color of contraband: what would the alleged contraband amount to ?
Contraband, says Hautefeuille,t affects those articles only
destined immediately to become in the hands of the possessors a direct means of attack and defence, that is, articles
suited solely for warlike purposes, without requiring to undergo any industrial preparation or transportation to render
them so; and that contraband of war is limited expressly to
arms, instruments, and munitions of war, fashioned and
fabricated exclusively to serve in war; and all other articles,
without excepting even those substances suited for the manufacture of such prohihited articles and the instruments even
Hay and Marriot, 127.
- Droits ot Dovoirs des nations neutres, t. ii, p. 83; and see Halleck a In.
ternational Lau p. 670, ch. 24, 9.

Dec. 1866.]

TiE SPRINGBOK.

13

Argument for the claimants.

which, without having a direct use in hostilities, can, however, be indirectly employed in them, continue the objects
of free commerce on the part of neutrals, either with both
the belligerents or with one of them.
The cloth in bale and the two small boxes of buttons are
consequently not contraband. The buttons were made in
England, and a court will not speculate upon their initials,
and certainly not assume to condemn through any such
mere assumption. There are British troops in Nassau; and
the Island of New Providence, on which it is, had probably
an Artillery, Infantry, Cavalry, and, perhaps, a Coast Survey.
The letters C. S. N., A., I., and C., may mean many things
innocent as well as one thing guilty.
The few kegs of saltpetre might reasonably be intended
for ordinary sale, or for domestic use in Nassau : for instance, in the curing of provisions. At any rate, it would
not be in quantity or value sufficient to affect a large cargo
of dry goods, even if this particular article was standing
alone in a gross prize case, connected with running a cargo
direct to a belligerent. This small quantity, with all the
rest of the cargo, was going to Nassau.
The dozen swords having the British crown upon their
guards were evidently English cavalry swords, ordered by
military men in Nassau. The twelve sword-bayonets were
also in court, and .were made for English Enfield rifles, and
most probably for the use of British troops in Nassau: and
they were only a dozen in all.
A reference to our treaties-our treaty with New Grenada,*"with Guatemala,t with Peru-show what our nation
looks upon as contraband. And while "clothes made up
in the form and for military use," may become contraband,
the mere cloth uncut, in the bale, is not so construed; nor
buttons.
In the treaty between the United States and the Republic
of Colombia, and in that with the Republics of Chili, of
" Art 17 9 Stat. at Large, 87.
: Art. 28, id. 937.

t Art. 16, Id. 880.

TILE SPRINGBOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

Venezuela, and of the Peru-Bolivian Confederation and
Equador, it is provided that contraband articles shall not
affect the rest ofthe cargo or the vessel.
But the question of contraband cannot arise; the cargo
was destined wholly for Nassau. The invocation does not
materially help the case. The proof derived from the
" dovetailing" of a few parcels on the Springbok and Gertrude is of very little significance. The whole source of the
evidence is interested. The marshal and prize commissioners make out their elaborated lists with the very purpose to procure condemnation. Besides, the amount of
dovetailing is far too small, to infer as a necessity a guilty
purpose. Condemnations cannot be made on presumptions.
3. As to the vessel alone. There is not a fact which connects
the Springbok herself with wrong. Where a neutral vessel is
going near the shore of~a belligerent, it may be best, for the
sake of protection, that the master know the character of
the cargo he carries;* but there can be no motive or object,
save so far as he has chosen to make himself liable for its
safety through bills of lading, to know its character, when
taking it from and having to deliver and get rid of it in another port of his own country.
In this case, its particulars were not known by the master
or mate, or any one on board.
The master is the agent of the shipowner only; he has
nothing to do with the cargo.t
Even where a cargo is made contraband by going to the
enemy, the vessel, if not belonging to the owner of the
cargo, will go free.
All the papers show that the master had no control of the
cargo after getting to Nassau. He was to drop it there; his
vessel was to be cleared, as to this cargo, at that place; and
the charter-party ended there, at Nassau.
The owners of the ship had no interest in the cargo.
The Oster Risoer, 4 Robinson, 199.
t Washingtor J., in Ross v. The Active, 2 Washington's Circuit Court,
226.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.

15

Argument for the captors.

They were mere corn non carriers, to receive freight for the
performance of an oi dinary and honest duty.
The modern rule is that the ship shall not be condemned
for carrying even contraband goods.*
The penalty is applied to the vessel and its owner only
where there has been some actual co-operation in a meditated fraud upon a belligerent by covering up the voyage
under false papers, and with a false destination.t
Mr. Ash ton, Assistant Attorney-General, with a brief of Mr.
Coffey, contra,.for the United States.
1. As to the invocation. No case decides that a decree will be
reversed because an invocation has been made on original
hearing; the suits invoked being like those where judgments have gone against the captors, and in one suit was
taken pro confesso. In such a case, even if not technically
regular, the maxim of Quod non fieri debetfactum valet, would
apply.
2. As respects cargo. The bills, &c., of Speyer and Haywood,
"as agents " for Isaac, Campbell & Co., written " under instructions," to Hart, at Nassau, show no purpose to deliver
the cargo at Nassau, as the end of the voyage, and taken in
connection with the fact that they are to order, were indorsed
in blank, and that no invoices were found on the ship, sustain the conclusion that there was an ulterior destination,
and that Nassau was but a port of transshiprnent.
That Begbie had an interest in the whole cargo appears
by the fact that all the bills of lading call for the payment
of freight as by the chartev-party; and the vessel was undoubtedly chartered by him to carry the cargo, all of which
was owned by hini and Isaac, Campbell & Co. The num
bers of the parcels on the Springbok and the Gertrude are
complements, and the voyages of all the vessels were parts
of a single transaction.
* The Neutralitet, 3 R~binson, 295; and see Carrington v. The Merchants'
lnsB Co., 8 Peters, 519; The Imina, 3 Robinson, 167; The Caroline, 6 1d. 462
t Carrington v. The Merchants' Ins. Co., saTra.

16

THE SPRINGBOk.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the captors.

In the commercial enterprise, therefore, in which ship and
cargo were captured, they were proceeding with false papers
to a false destination; a valuable part of the cargo was
what, notwithstanding the quotation, on the other side, from
Hautefeuille, was certainly contraband of war, manufactured
expressly fir, and proceeding directly to, -enemy use; all of
the ship's papers were prepared to conceal the fact that part
of the cargo was contraband.
This purpose of concealment appears, too, from the ab-

sence of the invoices of cargo. The invoices and duplicate
bills of lading were not carried on the vessel, but were to be
sent to Nassau by mail steamer. That the whole cargo was
owned in common, is also shown by the letters of Speyer &
Haywood to Captain May and W. S. Hart; by their indorsement on the charter-party, and by their signature to the
manifest.
Isaac, Campbell & Co., who, it is plain, by what is stamped
on the buttons, are manufacturers and dealers in military
goods in London, were the owners of the whole cargo of the
Hart, condemned as prize of war; the proceedings in which
case have been invoked into this. Speyer & Haywood were
the brokers who had charge of the lading of the Hart. The
cargo of that vessel consisted of arms, equipments, and
munitions of W'ar, laden in England under the direction of
I., C. & Co., in co-operation with agents, at London, of the
rebel authorities, for the purpose of running the blockade,
the question of transshipment to be decided by a rebel agent
at Cuba.
That case, with the case of the Gertrude, show that the
cargoes of the Springbok, the Hart, and the Gertrude, were,
in fact, parts of a single commercial venture, divided by
shipments on different vessels, but having a common ownership and destination. The dates and places of capture of all
three vessels must be adverted to. The Hart was capturea
29th of January, 1862; the Spriugbok, February 3d, 1863;
the Gertrude on the 16th of April, 1863, all in guilty or
suspicious regions. , That the want of some of the regular

Dec. 1866.]

TE

SPRINGBOIC.

Argument for the captors.

ship's papers, is strong presumptive evidence against a ship
in time of war is shown by many writers.*
The fbree of this presumption is increased when the vessel,
laden with contraband of war, with some of her usual and
important papers missing, and all of them concealing the
fact of contraband cargo, is found, in time of war, on the
usual route of such trade, proceeding towards, the enemy
country.
The master was the son of one owner, and the vessel
was chartered for this voyage by his authority, lie denied,
on his examination, that he knew that she had any goods
contraband of war on board, and stated that she carried
"a cargo of general merchandise." Ile also stated that he
did not know on what pretence the capture was made.
This testimony is obviously false. The latter part of it is
contradicted by the testimony of the mate, boatswain, and
steward.
The fact that the master attempted, by falsehood, to conceal the true ground of capture, well known to his subordinates, shows a design to withhold the truth as to the facts
of the voyage, and justifies the inference that he knew, in
fact, what he vas bound in law to know, that part of his
cargo was contraband.t
He signed bills of lading for 1394 packages of merchandise, the contents of only 613 of which were disclosed by
the bills of lading, all of those so disclosed being innocent
articles. His manifest, identifying the packages by their
marks and numbers, described them only as cases, bales,
boxes, chests, bags, &c. ie knew of the existence of invoices, but sailed without them. These facts show that his
ignorance of the character of his cargo, if real, was his own
fault. But they show still more strongly that his ignorance
was not real, but affected. A reason. for this affectation of
"See Halleck's Int. Law, chap. 25, sec. 25, p. 622, and cases; 1 Kent's
Corn. 157; The Richmond, 5 Rob. 328, where Sir Win. Scott animadve'ts
on the concealment on the ship's papers of contraband articles.
See the Oster Risoer, 4 Robinson, 199; Mosely on Contrabanis, 97., 98
VOL. V.

2

THE SPRINGBOK.[

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for. the captors.

ignorance was, doubtless, that he hoped thereby to save, his
father's ship.
These facts implicate the vessel in the guilt of the cargo.
None of the claimants of either vessel or cargo have ventured to vindicate the innocence of the voyage by a test
oath.
The master swears to the claim of the claimants of the
vessel, nearly a month after the libel was filed. No reason
is assigned why the claim and the facts stated therein are
not verified by the oath of one of the owners.
As a trustworthy source of information to a prize court,
Mr. Kursheedt's affidavit is entitled to no respect whatever;
not because Mr. Kursheedt is unworthy of belief, but because he has, and can have, no personal knowledge on the
subject about which he swearg; and because those who have
the requisite personal knowledge refuse to subject them-,
selves to the test of an oath, even to save a cargo so valuable, and attempt to palm upon the prize court their unsupported statements at secondhand. And this insult to the
court is aggravated by the excuse offered, that in six weeks
it was impossible to communicate with them (at London) in
time to allow them to make the claim and test affidavit.
The case rests on the following propositions of fact and
law, which, it is submitted, the evidence and authorities
sustain.
1. The cargo was prize, because the Springbok, when cap.
tured, was pursuing a voyage -laden with a cargo intended
to be transshipped to the enemy's blockaded port at its port
of real destination.
Because the cargo was largely contraband of war, consisting of articles all of which were specially suited for
enemy use, and destined to an enemy port for.such enemy
use, by transshipment at Nassau, but without any sale or
change of ownership at Nassau.
Because, therefore, the cargo was taken on a voyage
having, so far as the cargo was concerned, its terminus a quo
at London, and its terminus ad quem at the blockaded and
enemy port, and any existing purpose to touch and transship

Dec. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.

19

Argument for the captors.

the cargo at Nassau, in prosecution of that voyage, did not,
as to the cargo, break the continuity of its voyage to the
blockaded and enemy port.*
That part of the cargo not contraband of war was good
prize, not only for the foregoing reasons, but for the further
reason that it was owned by the owners of the contraband
part.t
2. The vessel was good prize, because she was in the sole
act, of transporting the cargo destined for the blockaded
port one stage of its route to that port. For this purpose
she was chartered by the owner of the contraband and other
goods, and, when captured, was sailing on the route by which
trade to the blockaded and enemy port was then usually
conducted, in pursuance of the charter and in furtherance
of that purpose, under the exclusive orders of the charterer.T
Because she was carrying contraband of war destined for
enemy use, under a charter made for that purpose, and, Qf
course, with the knowledge of the owner of the vessel; carrying it also with a false destination. These facts make the
owner of the vessel a party to the fraud, and implicate it in
the guilt of the cargo. See The Neulralitet,§ Wghere the owner
chartered the ship for contraband trhde; The Franklin,lI
where the ship was carrying contraband, with a false destination, and where Sir William Scott said that the relaxation
of the ancient rule, which condemned the ship with the
cargo, can only be claimed by fair cases; The Ranger, where
he said, "If the owner (of the ship) will place his property
The Maria, 5 Robinson, 365; The William, Id. 385; The Thomyris,
Edwards, 17; The Minerva, 8 Robinson, 229; The Richmond, 5 Id. 325;
The Commercen, 1 Wheaton, 382; Jecker v. Moptgomery, 18 Howard,
110-115; The Nancy, 3 Robinson, 122; The United States, Stewart's Adm.
Rep. 116.
t Halleck's Int. Law, chap. 24, 6, p. 573, and authorities cited; 8 Phillimore, Int. Law, 277; 2 Wildman, Int. Law, 217; The Sarah Christina,
I Robinson, 237.
I See cases cited to third point; also, The Maria, 6 Robinson, 201; The
Charlotte Sophia, Id. 204, note 1; Instructions of Navy Dpartment of
18th August, 1862; Upton's Prize. 450, 3d ed.
0 3 Robinson, 296.
I1Id.. 217.
6 Id. 126,

THtE SPRINGBOKC.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of.the court.

under the absolute management and control of persons who
are capable of lending it to be made an instrument of fraud
in the hands of the enemy, he must sustain the consequences
of such misconduct on the part of his agent;" The Baltic,*
where the ship was condemned because "the owner must
have been aware of the fraud intended, if not a confidential
party to it."t
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We have considered the case with much care, not only
upon the ship's papers and the preparatory proofs, but upon
the documents invoked on the hearing in the Distriet Court
from the two causes, United States v. The Steamer Gertrude,
and United States v. The Schooner Stephen Hart, then pending in that court.
The invocation of these documents appears to have been
made at the original hearing, and we cannot say that this
was strictly regular. It would have been more in accordance
with the rules of proceeding in prize if the cause had been
first fully heard on the ship's documents and the preparatory
proofs, and if invocation had been allowed, especially to the
captors, only in case of the disclosure of suspicious circumstances on that hearing. But there was no such irregularity
as was inconsistent with the lawful exercise of the discretion
of the court, and none which would justify us in reversing
the decree below because of the allowance of the invocation,
or in refusing to look at the documents invoked and now
part of the record. Especially should we not be justified in
such refusal, after being made aware by the record that the
steamship Gertrude was so manifestly good prize that no
claim was ever interposed for her or her cargo, and after
1 Acton, 25.
t The Jonge 3Margaretha, 1 Robinson, 189; The Mercurius, Id. 288, and
note; The Jonge Tobias, Id. 329; The Neptunus, 3 Id. 108; The Eenrom,
2 Id. 1; The Edward, 4 Id. 68; The Oster Risoer, Id. 200; The Carolina,
-'l. 260; The Richmond, 5 Id. 325; The Charlotte, Id. 275; The Ringende
Jacob 1 Id. 89; Carrington v. The Merchants' Insurance Co., 8 Peters, 520

Dec. ] 866.]

THE

SPRINGBO0K.

Opinion of the court.

having, at the last term, condemned the Stephen Hart and
her cargo by our own decree.
We have, therefore, looked into all the evidence, and will
now dispose of the case.
We have already held in the case of the Bermuda, where
goods, destined ultimately for a belligerent port, are being
conveyed between two neutral ports by a neutral ship, under
a charter made in good faith for that voyage, and without
any fraudulent connection on the part of her owners with
the ulterior destination of the goods, that the ship, though
liable to seizure in order to the confiscation of the goods, is
not liable to condemnation as prize.
We think that the Springbok fairly comes within this
rule. Her papers were regular, and they all showed that
the voyage on which she was captured was from London to
Nassau, both neutral ports within the definitions of neutrality furnished by the international law. The papers, too,
were all genuine, and there was no concealment of any of
them and no spoliation. Her owners were neutrals, and do
not appear to have had any interest in the cargo; and there
is no sufficient proof that they had any knowledge of its
alleged unlawful destination.
It is true that her shipping articles engaged the crew fdr
the voyage, not only from London to Nassau, but also from
thence, if required, to any other ,port of the West India
Islands, American States, British North America, and other
named countries, and finally to a port in the United Kingdoi; and it is also true that this engagement would include, should the master undertake it, a continuance of the
voyage for the conveyance of the cargo from Nassau to a
blockaded port; but there is no proof that there was any
engagement for such continuance of the voyage. On the
contrary, the charter-party, which has the face, at least, of
an honest paper, stipulated for the delivery of the cargo at
Nassau, where, so far as is shown by that document, the
connection of the Springbok with it was to end.
The preparatory examinations do not contradict but rather
sustain the papers.

THIE SPRINGBOK.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

The testimony of the master was that the vessel was des.
tined to and for Nassau to deliver her cargo and return to
the United Kingdom, and that her papers were entirely true
and fair. And his testimony in this regard is corroborated
by that of the other witnesses.
It is said, however, that the master, upon his examination,
declared himself to have been ignorant of the real ownership
of the cargo, and that this indicates unlawful intent. But
it must be remembered that the master of the Springbok
had a clear right to convey neutral goods of all descriptions,
including contiaband, from London to Nassau, subject to
the belligerent right of seizure in order to confiscation of
contraband, if found on board and proved to be in transit to
the hostile belligerent. On the hypothesis, therefore, that
the cargo was to be actually delivered at Nassau, without an
ulterior destination known to and promoted by the master
or owners, in bad faith, we cannot say that the master's ignorance of its ownership is an important circumstance in
the case.
There is more weight in the argument for condemnation
derived from the misrepresentation of the master concerning
his knowledge of the cause of seizure. The master testified
that he did not know when examined on what pretence the
capture was made, while the mate and the steward deposed
that they understood that the vessel was captured under the
supposition that the cargo was contraband, and the boatswain
testified that it was because the bills of lading did not show
the contents of some of the eases.
The master must have known as much about the cause of
capture as either of the witnesses; and his misrepresentation
of the truth in this instance brings his statements concerning
the real destination of the ship and the intention to deliver
her cargo at Nassau into some discredit. Frankness and
truth are especially required of the officers of captured vessels when examined in preparation for the first hearing in
prize. And the clearest good faith may very reasonably be
required of those engaged in alleged neutral commerce with
a port constantly and notoriously used as a port of call and

Dec. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.

Opinion of the court.

transshipment by persons engaged in systematic violation of
blockade and in the conveyance of contraband of war. That
Nassau was such a port is not only known from evidence
before the prize courts, but from the official correspondence
between the English and American governments, and the
fact was distinctly stated by Earl Russell, then Foreign Secretary in the British ministry, in an answer, dated July 5th,
1862, to a communication from the shipowners of Liverpool.*
If, therefore, the case of the claimants of the ship depended
wholly upon the testimony of the master, we should find it
difficult to resist the argument for condemnation. But it
does not depend wholly or mainly on that statement. The
fairness of the papers, the apparent good faith of the stipulations of the charter-party in favor of the owners, and the
testimony of the other witnesses, restrain us from harsh inferences against the owners of the vessel, who seem to be in
no way compromised with the cargo, except through the
misrepresentations of the master, and are not shown to have
been connected with any former violation of neutral obligations.
In consideration of the master's misrepresentation, however, and of the circumstance that he signed bills of lading
which did not state truly and fully the nature of the goods
contained in the bales and cases mentioned in them, we shall,
whiie directing restoration of the ship, allow no costs oi
damages to the claimants.
The case of the cargo is quite different from that of the
ship.
The cargo was shipped at London in November and December, 1862, in part by Moses Brothers and the remainder
by Speyer and I-aywood.
The bills of lading, three in number, show no interest in
any other person.
The charter-party was made by the master with one Begbie, and stipulated that the ship should take on board a cargo
* July 19th, 1862, Lawrence's Wheaton, 719.

Tim

SPRINGBO-K.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of lawful merchandise goods and deliver the same at Nassau
to the charterers' agent at that port.
On completion of the lading on the 8th of December,
Speyer and Haywood, subscribing themselves as agents for
the charterers, addressed a note to the master directing him
to proceed at once to Nassau, and on arrival report himself
to B. W. Hart there, who would give him orders as to the
delivery of the cargo and any further infbrmation he might
require.
The bills of lading disclosed the contents of six hundred
and nineteen, but concealed the contents of thirteen hundred
and eighty-eight, of the two thousand and seven packages
which made up the cargo. Like those in the Bermuda case
they named no consignee, but required the cargo to be delivered to order or assigns. The manifest of the cargo also,
like that in the Bermuda case, mentioned no consignee, but
described the cargo as delivelrable to order. Unlike those
bills and that manifest, however, these concealed the names
of the real owners as well as the contents of more than twothirds of the packages.
'Why were the contents of the packages concealed? The
owners knew that they were going to a port in the trade
with which the utmost candor of statement might be reasonably required. The adventure was undertaken several
months after the publication of the answer of Earl Russell
to the Liverpool shipowners already mentioned. In that
answer the British foreign secretary bad spoken of the allegations by the American government that ships had been
sent from England to America with fixed purpose to run
the blockade, and that arms and ammunition had thus been
conveyed to the Southern States to aid them in the war; and
he had confessed his inability either to deny the allegations
or to prosecute the offenders to conviction; and he had then
distinctly informed the Liverpool memorialists that he could
not be surprised that the cruisers of the United States should
watch with vigilance a port which was said to be the great
entrep6t of this commerce. For the concealment of the
character of a cargo shipped for that entrep6t, after such a

Dec. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.

25

Opinion of the court.

warning, no honest reason can be assigned. The true reason must be found in the desire of the owners to hide from
the scrutiny of the American cruisers the contraband character of a considerable portion of the contents of those packages.
And why were the names of those owners concealed? Can
any honest reason be given for that? None has been suggested. But the real motive of concealment appears at once
when we learn, from the claim, that Isaac, Campbell & Co.,
and Begbie were the owners of the cargo of the Springbok,
and from the papers invoked, that Begbie was the owner of
the steamship Gertrude, laden in Nassau in April, 1863, with
a cargo corresponding in several respects with that now
claimed by him and his associates, and despatched on a pretended voyage to St. John's, New Brunswick, but captured
for unneutral conduct and abandoned to condemnation,
without even the interposition of a claim in the prize court;
and when we learn further from the same papers that Isaac,
Campbell & Co., were the sole owners of the cargo of tile
Stephen Hart, consisting almost wholly of arms and munitions of war, and sent on a pretended destination to Cardenas, but with a real one for the States in rebellion. Clearly
the true motive of this concealment must have been the apprehension of the claimants, that the disclosure of their
names as owners would lead to the seizure of the ship in
order to the condemnation of the cargo.
We are next to ascertain the real destination of the cargo,
for these concealments do not, of themselves, warrant condemnation. If the real intention of the owners was that the
cargo should be landed at Nassau and incorporated by real
sale into the common stock, of the island, it must be restored,
notwithstanding this misconduct.
What then was this real intention ? That some other
destination than Nassau was intended may be inferred, from
the fact that the consignment, shown by the bills of lading
and the manifest, was to order or assigns. Under the circumstances of this trade, already mentioned, such a consignment must be taken as a negation that any sale had been

THE SPRINGBOK.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

made to any one at Nassau. It must also be taken as a
negation that any such sale was intended to be made there ;
for had such sale bben intended, it is most likely that the
goods would have been consigned for that purpose to somE
established house named in the bills of lading.
This inference is strengthened by the letter of Speyer &
Haywood to the master, when about to sail from London.
That letter directs him to report to B. W. Hart, the agent of
the charterers at Nassau, and receive his instructions as to
the delivbry of the cargo. The property in it was to remain
unchanged upon delivery. The agent was to receive it and
execute the instructions of his principals.
What these instructions were may be collected, in part,
from the character of the cargo.
A part of it, small in comparison with the whole, consisted
of arms and munitions of war, contraband within the narrowest definition. Another and somewhat larger portion
consisted of articles useful and necessary in war, and therefore cQntraband within the constructions of the American
and English prize courts. These portions being contraband,
the residue of the cargo, belonging to the same owners, must
share their fate.*
But we do not now refer to the character of the cargo for
the purpose of determining whether it was liable to condemnation as contraband, but for the purpose of ascertaining its real destination ; for, we repeat, contraband or not, it
could not be condemned, if really destined for Nassau and
not beyond; and, contraband or not, it must be condemned
if destined to any rebel port, for all rebel ports were under
blockade.
Lo.oking at the cargo with this view, we find that a part
of it was specially fitted for use in the rebel military service,
and a larger part, though not so specially fitted, was yet well
adapted to such use. Under the first head we include the
sixteen dozen swords, and the ten dozen rifle-bayonets, and
" The Immanuel, 2 Robinson, 196;
Carrington v. Merchants' Insurance
Co., 8 Peters, 495.

Dee. 1866.]

THE SPRINGBOK.

27

Opinion of the court.

the forty-five thousand navy buttons, and the one hundred
and fifty thousand army buttons; and, under the latter, the
seven bales of army cloth and the twenty bales of army
blankets and other similar goods. We cannot look at such
a cargo as this, and doubt that a considerable portion of it
was going to the rebel States, where alone it could be used;
nor can we doubt that the whole cargo had one destination.
Now if this cargo was not to be carried to its ultimate
destination by the Springbok (and the proof does not warrant us in saying that it was), the plan must have been to
send it forward by transshipment. And we think it evident
that such was the purpose. We have already referred to
the bills of lading, the manifest, and the letter of Speyer &
Haywood, as indicating this intention; and the same inference must be drawn from the disclosures by the invocation,
that Isaac, Campbell & Co., had before supplied military
goods to the rebel authorities by indirect shipments, and
that Begbie was owner of the Gertrude and engaged in the
business of running the blockade.
If these circumstances were insufficient grounds for a
satisfactory conclusion, another might be found in the presence of the Gertrude in the harbor of Nassau with undenied
intent to run the blockade, about the time when the arrival
of the Springbok was eXpected there. It seems to us extremely probable that she had been sent to Nassau tc await
the arrival of the Springbok and to convey her cargo to a
belligerent and blockaded port, and that she did not so convey it, only because the voyage was intercepted by the capture.
All these condemnatory circumstances must be taken in
connection with the fraudulent concealment attempted in
the bills of lading and the manifest, and with the very remarkable fact that not only has no application been made
by the claimants for leave to take further proof in order to
furnish some explanation of these circumstances, but that no
claim, sworn to personally, by either of the claimants, has
ever been fi'ed.
Upon the whole case we cannot doubt that the cargo was

THE PETERHOFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

originally shipped with intent to violate the blockade; that
the owners, of the cargo intended that it should be transshipped at Nassau into some vessel more likely to succeed
in i.eaching safely a blockaded port than the Springbok;
that the voyage from London to the blockaded port was, as
to cargo, both -in law and in the intent of the parties, one
voyage.; and that the liability to condemnation, if captured
during any part of that voyage, attached to the cargo from
the time of sailing.
The decree of the District Court must, therefore, be revorsed as to the ship, but without costs or damages to the
claimants, and must be affirmed as to the cargo; and the
cause must be remanded for further proceedings
IN

THE

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

PETERIOFF.

1. A blockade is not to be extended by construction.
2. The mouth of the Rio Grande was not included in the blockade of the
ports of the rebel States, set on foot by the National government
during the late rebellion; and neutral commerce with Matamorag, a
neutral town on the Mexican side of the river, except in contraband
destined to the enemy, was entirely free.
8. Semble that a belligerent cannot blockade the mouth of a river, occupied
on one hank by neutrals with complete rights of navigation.
4. A vessel destined for a neutral port with no ulterior destination for the
ship, or none by sea for the cargo to any blockaded place, violates no
blockade.
Hence trade, during our late rebellion, between London and INiatamoras,
two neutral places, the last an inland one of Mexico, and close to our
Mexican boundary, even with intent to supply, from Matamoras, goods
to Texas, then an enemy of the United States, was not unlawful on the
ground of such violation.
5. The trade of neutrals with belligerents in articles not contraband is
absolutely free unless interrupted by blockade: the conveyance by neutrals to belligerents of contraband articles is always unlawful, and such
articles may always be seized during transit by sea.
Co.The classification of goods as contraband or not contraband, which is
best supported by American and English decisions, d'vides all merchandise into three classes.

