290

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

joint lrenant and a tenant in common, and their co-tenants,
the bar becomes complete when the period has elapsed,
which the statute prescribes, after the commencement of
open and notorious adverse possession.* We think the special verdict sustains conclusively this defence.
The judgment below was properly given for the defendant
in error, and it is affirmed.
Mr. Justice MILLER. I concur in the judgment of the
court, and in its opinion as to the first ground on which the
judgment is based.
In that part of the opinion which declares the statute of
limitation to be a good defence, I cannot concur. The facts
conceded by both parties show, that until the death of Thomas
Croxall, in 1861, the defendants and those under whom they
claimed, had a lawful possession ; and were at no time liable
to an action to disturb that possession until that event; and
I do not believe that the statute of limitations of New Jersey, or of any other country, or any rule of prescription, was
ever intended to create a bar in favor of parties in possession,
who were not liable to be sued in regard to that possession.
It was unnecessary to decide this proposition, as the court
were unanimous in the opinion that defendants had a good
title, in fee simple, which needed no statute of limitation to
protect it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

1. A State statute which enacts that " no action shall be maintained on any
judgment or decree rendered by any court without this State against any
person who, at the time of the commencement of the action in which

such judgment or decree was or shall be rendered, was or shall be a resident of this State, in any case where the cause of action would have been

barred by any act of limitation of this State, if such suit had been brought
therein"-is unconstitutional and void, as destroying the right of a
party to enforce a judgment regularly obtained in another State, and
Angel on Limitations,

425, and 419 to 436.

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

291

Statement of the case.
as conflicting therefore with the provision of the Constitution (Art. IV,
1), which ordains that "full faith and credit shall be given in each
State to the public acts, records, and judicial proceedings of every other
State."
2. A plea of fraud in obtaining a judgment sued upon, cannot be demurred
to generally because not showing the particulars of the fraud set up.
Going to a matter of form, the demurrer should be special.
3. Subject to the qualification that they are open to inquiry as to the jurisdiction of the court which gave them, and as to notice to the defendant,
the judgment of a State court, not reversed by a superior court having jurisdiction, nor set aside by a direct proceeding in chancery, is conclusive in the courts of all the other States where the subject-matter of
controversy is the same.

IN March, 1840, Christmas, being a citizen and resident
of J1ississippi, made at Vicksburg, in that State, and there
delivered to one Samuel, a promissory note, promising to
pay to his order in March, 1841, a sum certain. This note
was indorsed by Samuel to Russell, a citizen and resident of
Kenlucky. By statute of Mississippi, action on this note was
barred by limitation, after six years, that is to say, was barred
in March, 1847. In 1853, the defendant, who was still, and
had continuously been, a resident of Mississippi, having a
Kentucky on a visit, and
mansion-house therein, went iteto
was there sued in one of the State courts upon the note.
Defence was taken on a statute of limitations of Mississippi and otherwise, and the matter having been taken to
the Court of Appeal of Kentucky and returned thencejudgment was entered below in favor of the plaintiff.
A transcript being promptly carried into Mississippi, the
place of the domicil of Christmas, an action of debt was
brought upon it in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of Mississippi; the action which
was the subject of the writ of error now before this court.
The transcript above referred to, was one duly authenticated under the act of Congress of 26th May, 1790, which
provides that records authenticated in a manner which it
prescribes, shall "have such faith and credit given to them
in every other court in the United States, as they have by
law or usage in the court from which they are taken;" an
act passed in pursuance of Section 1 of Article IV of the Con.

292

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

stitution of the United States, declaring that " full faith and
credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records,
and judicial proceedings in every other State;" and that

" Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in
which such records shall be proved, and the effect thereof."
In the action brought as above said, in the Circuit Court
of Mississippi, the defendant filed six pleas-of which the
second was to this effect:
"That at the time the cause of action accrued, and thenceforth until suit was brought in Kentucky, and at the time when
said suit was brought, he was a resident of Mississippi, and that
the cause of action would have been barred by an act of limitation of that State, if the suit had been brought therein, and so
by the law of Mississippi, no action could be maintained in said
State upon the said judgment."
lie also pleaded
4th. " That the judgment set forth was obtained and procured
by the plaintiff by fraud of the said plaintiff."

And
6th. " That the said suit in which judgment was obtained, was
instituted to evade the laws of Mississippi, and in fraud of said
laws."

The second and sixth pleas were intended to set up a defence under a statute of Mississippi, adopted in February,
1857, and which went into effect on the 1st day of November of that year.* That statute enacted:
"No action shall be maintained on any judgment or decree
rendered by any court without this State against any person
who, at the time of the commencement of the action in which
such judgment or decree was or shall be rendered, was or shall
be a resident of this State, in any case where the cause of such
action would have been barred by ,any act of limitation of this
State, if such suit had been brought therein."

* Revisel Code, pp. 43, 400.

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V.

I{USSELL.

Argument in support of the pleas.

To these pleas the plaintiff below demurred. The demurrer was sustained, and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the question on error here was, as to the sufficiency of
these pleas, or either of them, to bar the action.
Messrs. Carlisle ana McPherson,for the plaintifin error:
We will, for convenience, discuss the fourth plea first, and
then the second and sixth together.
I. The fourth plea offered to prove, in bar to the action,
that the judgment sued on was obtained and procured by
the plaintiff by his fraud.
1. Fraud by the plaintiff in procuring the judgment, if well
aad sufficiently pleaded and proven, would have barred the
action.
This is the established rule of law, and was so laid down
by this court in the case of Webster v. Reid.*
It is also the rule in Kentucky, where the judgment now
sued on was rendered.t
2. Fraud was well and sufficiently pleaded.t

I. As to the 2d and 6th pleas. The manifest policy of the
State of Mississippi in passing the statute set up by the defendant in his second plea below was to protect its citizens
from unjust and harassing litigation under circumstances
such as those under which the present one is brought on.
And the question is, whether this statute, having such intent
and policy, was within the constitutional competency of the
State to enact.
It will be maintained on the opposite side that such a
power cannot be exercised without violating that clause of
the Constitution, respecting the full faith and credit due to
the records and judicial proceedings of the several States.
Without here examining the authorities on this subject
in detail, it is sufficient to observe that on the one hand they
clearly establish that "the full faith and credit" which is
* 11 Howard, 441, 460.

8 Chitty's Pleading, 1184.

t Talbott v. Todd, 5 Dana, 194-6.

294

[Sup. Ct

CHRISTMAS V. RUssELL.

Argument in support of the pleas.

guaranteed to the records and judicial proceedings of the
several States, has relation to them only as instruments of
evidence,* while on the other all the cases concede that the
whole subject of remedies by action or suit at law or in equity,
is within the undoubted competency of the respective States.
In -Bronsonv. Kinzie,t Chief Justice Taney says:
"Undoubtedly, a State may regulate at pleasure the modes
of proceeding in its courts in relation to past contracts as well
as future. It may, for example, shorten the period of time within which claims shall be barred by the statute of limitations. It
may, if it thinks proper, direct that the necessary implements
of agriculture, or the tools of the mechanic, or articles of neces-

sity in household furniture, shall, like wearing apparel, not be
liable to execution on judgments. Regulations of this description have always been considered, in every civilized community,
as properly belonging to the remedy to be exercised or not by
every sovereignty, according to its own views of policy and

humanity. It must reside in every State to enable it to secure its
citizens from unjust and harassing litigation, and to protect them in
those pursuits which are necessary to the existence and well-being of
every community. And although a new remedy may be deemed
less convenient than the old one, and may, in some respects.

render the recovery of debts more tardy and difficult, yet it
will not follow that the law is unconstitutional.
Vhatever belongs merely to the remedy may be altered according to the will of the
State, provided the alteration does not impair the obligation of'the
contract."
Now, in the present case, the only contract between the
parties in form or in substance, which is pretended to have
had any existence at the date of the Mississippi statute,
was that the plaintiff in error, being a citizen and resident of Mississippi, on the 10th day of March, 1840, in that
State, made and delivered his promissory note to a certain
Samuel, promising to pay to his order a certain sum of
money at a certain day thereafter. Neither the statute in
question, nor any other statute of Mississippi purports to
*.Mills v. Duryee, 7 Crunch, 481.

t- I Howard, 315

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

295

Argument in support of the pleas.

impair, or is pretended to have impaired the obligation of
this contract. After the passage of the disputed statute, as
well as before, there was a statute of limitations which
barred the remedy in this contract in six years after the
cause of action accrued, but this it is conceded was within
the constitutional power of the State.
All that had occurred after the making of this contract
was, that a new and higher instrument of evidence, establishing the same contr,,et with greater solemnity, had been. imposed upon the debtor, by a proceeding in invilum, in another
State of the Union, where he happened to be found temporarily sojournirig. But the contract between the parties remained the same in its substance, altlhough it had changed
its form by operation of law, in which form its substance is
distinctly repeat ed and adjudicated.
Will it be maintained that when a contract has assumed a
new shape by extra-territorial judicial proceedings it may
be immediately brought back into the State where it was
made, and where in its original form it was a mere nullity,
because against public policy, in violation of express law, and
there, through the courts, in spite of the statute, be compulsorily enforced ? This surely will not be cont6nded.
The statute of Mississippi, alleged to be unconstitutional,
did not deny to the Kentucky record the full faith and
credit guaranteed to it by the Constitution. In the present
case, full fhith and credit and effect as evidence were given
to the Kentucky record, as conclusive of every matter and
thing which thereby appeared. And it did thereby appear
that the judgment had no other foundation than a certain
Mississippi contract therein set forth, which fell within the
purview of the Mississippi statute in question, the cause of
action therein having been long barred by the limitation
acts of said State in force at the date of the contract.
This question rises far above any mere technical criticism
of the provisions of the Constitution; it involves the sovereign competency of the State to enforce its own laws within its own limits in -egard to subjects of litigation arising

CIRISTMAS

V.

IUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the pleas.

there between its own citizens. In the case at bar the stat-.
ute invoked by the plaintiff was passed, manifestly, in the
just and reasonable exercise of that power, which in the
language of this court, above cited, must reside in every
State to enable it to secure its citizens from unjust and harassing litigation. It does not disregard or discredit the Kentucky record; but giving that record full ihith and credit, it
declares that upon the facts thereby appearing, the obligation thereby'attempted to be imposed upon the defendant
is contrary to the public policy of the State, and shall not
be enforced within its limits.
Mr. Ashton, contra :
I. In regard to the fourth plea. The plea, even admitting
for argument's sake that the judgment was procured by
fraud, is perhaps defective in not setting out by what fraud;
in not showing, we mean, how, particularly, the fraud set up
generally was perpetrated.
But waiving this matter of form, the plea is defective substalitially, fraud being no plea in one State to a judgment
standing in full force, unreversed, and never set aside, in
another; and this being true, both by common law principles-and by the provision of the Constitution on the subject of the faith and credit due in each State to the judicial
proceedings of every other.
The j ndgments of the courts of one State are, as respects
other States, very much in the nature of domestic judgments.
Certainly under our Federal system, and in a country where
one sovereignty is made of States, they cannot be regarded
as foreign judgments.
As to domestic judgments, it is matter of" horn-book learning," that these cannot be called in question collaterally,
supposing that the court which gave them had jurisdiction.
And even as to fbreign judgments, while the earlier coinmon law,-the law of a day when intercourse between nations was difficult, limited, and suspicious,-held them open
to a plea of fraud, the disposition in this present day of the
brotherho d of nations is to disallow such plea. Certainly

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

297

Argument against the pleas.

we would be disposed to pay as much respect to a solemn
judgment of the King's Bench, or Common Pleas of England, as we should to one of our own courts. And no less
respect would be due from that bench to a judgment of this
high tribunal; and none less we presume would now be
paid
But all this is quite useless discussion. The question is
simply, "What faith and credit is due in one State to a judicial proceeding had in another?"
And the Constitution
answers the question ; for it declares that it shall be "full
faith and credit." How is full faith and credit, or any faith
and credit at all, given when you can plead that the judicial
proceeding was fraudulently procured ? If, indeed, any matter has supervened ; that is to say, if the judgment has been
paid, it may in a proper form, as that of payment, be pleaded;
though not in a form, as that of nil debet, which would leave
it uncertain whether the plea was meant to go to matter
anterior to the date of the judgment, or to matter posterior
to it. This is reason, and a matter settled by authority so
well known to the bar as almost to dispense with our referring to the cases.*
II.As to the second and sixth pIleas. The act of Mississippi is clearly uncqnstitutional. The Constitution declares
that full faith and e edit should be given in each State (including Mississippi) to thejudicial proceedings in every other
(including Kentucky). The act of the Mississippi legislature
says that no faith or credit at all shall be given to a judicial
proceeding in Kentucky in any case where the cause of action
there,held not barred would in Mississippi be held barred.
The cooiflict is palpable. Under numerous authoritiest the
statute df Mississippi set up as a plea is no plea. In short,
no plea to' a suit on such a record as this suit was brought
*Mills

v. Duryec, 7 Cranch, 481 ; Hampton v. McConnel, 3 Wheaton,

234; McElmolye v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 320; Bank United States v. Merchants'
Bank, 7 Gill, 482; 2 American Leading Cases, 763 to end.
t Bronson v. Kinzie, 1 Ho~vard, 815; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 Id. 608;
Murray v. Gibson, 15 Id. 421; Tarpley v. Hamer, 9 Smedes & Marshall,
913; Wdst Feliciana Railroad Company v. Stockets, 13 Id. 897.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

on, is good, except na' lil record, payment, or some plea in
abatement touching the rights of the parties to sue in the
court of the United States, or some limitation to the right
of suing on the record founded on reasonable time from the
date of the judgment.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Wilson, on the eleventh day of November, 1857, recovered
judgment in one of the county courts in the State of Kentucky, against the plaintiff in error, fbr the sum of five thousand six hundred and thirty-four dollars and thirteen cents,
which, on the thirty-first day of March, 1859, was affirmed
in the Court of Appeals. Present record shows that the
action in that case was assurnpsit, and that it was founded
upon a certain promissory note, signed by the defendant in
that suit, and dated at Vicksburg, in the State of Mississippi,
on the tenth day of March, 1840, and that it was payable at
the Merchants' Bank, in New Orleans, and was duly indorsed
to the plaintiff by the payee. Process was duly served upon
the defendant, and he appeared in the case and pleaded to
the declaration. Several defences were set up, but they were
all finally overruled, and the verdict and judgment were for
the plaintiff.
On the fourth day of June, 1854, the prevailing party in
that suit instituted the present suit in the court below, which
was an action of debt on that judgment, as appears by the
transcript. Defendant was duly served with process, and
appeared and filed six pleas in answer to the action. Reference, however, need only be particularly made to the second
and fourth, as they embody the material questions presented
for decision. Substance and effect of the second plea were
that the note, at the commencement of the suit in Kentucky,
was barred by the statute of limitations of Mississippi, the
defendant having been a domiciled citizen of that State when
the cause of action accrued, and from that time to the commencement of the suit.
Fourth plea alleges that the judgment mentioned in the

Dec. 1866.]

CHRisTMAs V. ]RUSSELL.

299

Opinion of the court.

declaration was procured by the fraud of the plaintiff ini that
suit. Plaintiff demurred to these pleas, as well as to the
fifth and sixth, and the court sustained the demurrers.
First plea was gad lid record, but the finding of the court
under the issue joined, negatived the plea.
Third plea was payment, to which tie plaintiff replied,
and the jury found in his favor.
II. 1. Resting upon his second and fourth pleas, the defendant sued out this writ of error, and now seeks to reverse
the judgment, upon the ground that the demurrers to those
pleas should have been overruled. Views of the defendant
were, and still are, that the second plea is a valid defence to
the action on the judgment, under the statute of Mississippi
passed in February, 1857, and found in the code of that State
which went into efiect on the first day of November of that
year. By that statute it was enacted that '' no action shall
be maintained on any judgment or decree rendered by any
court without tHis State against any person who, at the time
of the commencement of the action in which such judgment
or decree was or shall be rendered, was or shall beia resident
of this State, in any case where the cause of action would
have been barred by any act of limitation of this State, if
such suit had been brought therein."*
Material facts are that the defendant, being a citizen and
resident of Mississipi, made the note to the payee, who
indorsed the same to the plaintiff, a citizen and resident of
Kentucky. Such causes of action are barred by limitation,
under the Mississippi statute, in six years after the cause of
action accrues. Some time in 1853 the defendant went into
Kentucky on a visit, and while there was sued on the note.
ie pleaded, among other pleas, the statute of limitations of
Mississippi, and, on the first trial, a verdict was fbund in his
favor; but the judgment was reversed on appeal, and at the
second trial the verdict and.judgnent were for the plaintiff
2. Undoubtedly, the second plea in this case is sufficient
in form, and it is a good answer to the action if the statute
*Mississippi

Code, 400.

300

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Plaintiff in error
suggests that it should be considered as a statute of limitations; and, if it were possible to regard it in that light, there
would be little or no difficulty in the case. Statutes of limi.
tation operating prospectively do not impair vested rights
or the obligation of contracts. Reasons of sound policy
have led to the adoption of limitation laws, both by Congress and the States, and, if not unreasonable in their terms,
their validity cannot be questioned. Consequently, it was
held by this court, in the ease of Enoyle v. Cohen,* that the
statute of limitations of Georgia might be pleaded to an
action in that State fbunded upon a judgment rendered in
the State Court of South Carolina. Cases, however, may
arise where the provisions of the statute on that subject may
be so stringent and unreasonable as to amount to a denial
of the right, and in that event a different rule would prevail,
as it could no longer be said that the remedy only was
affected by the new legislation.t
3. But the provision under consideration is not a statute
of limitations as known to the law or the decisions of the
courts upon that subject. Limitation, as used in such statutes, means a bar to the alleged right of the plaintiff to recover in the action created by or arising out of the lapse of
a certain time affer the cause of action accrued, as appointed
by law.t
Looking at the terms of this provision, it is quite obvious
that it contains no element which can give it any such character. Plain effect of the provision is to. deny the right of
the judgment creditor to sue at all, under any circumstances,
and wholly irrespective of any lapse of time whatever,
whether longer or shorter. No day is given to such a creditor, but the prohibition is absolute that no action shall be
maintained on any judgment or decree fhling within the
conditions set forth in the provision. Those conditions are
addressed, not to the judgment, but to the cause of action.
'ander which it was framed is a valid law.

18 Peters, 312.
t Bronson v. Kiuzie et al., 1 Howard, 815; Angell on Limitations, 18.
Bouviei's Di'ionary, title Limitation.

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

301

Opinion of the court.

which was the foundation of the judgment. Substantial import of the provision is that judgments recovered in other
States against the citizens of Mississippi shall not be enforced in the tribunals of that State, if the cause of action
which was the foundation of the judgment would have becn
barred in her tribunals by her statute of limitations.
Nothing can be plainer than the proposition is, that the
judgment mentioned in the declaration was a valid judgment in the State where it was rendered. Jurisdiction of
the case was undeniable, and the defendant being found in
that jurisdiction, was duly served with process, and appeared
and made full defence. Instead of being a statute of limitations in any sense known to the law, the provision, in legal
effect, is but an attempt to give operation to the statute of
limitations of that State in all the other States of the Union
by denying the efficacy of any judgment recovered in another
State against a citizen of Mississippi for any cause of action
which was barred in her tribunals under that law. Where
the cause of action which led to the judgment was. not
barred by her statute of limitations the judgment may be
enfbreed ; but if it would have been barred in her tribunals,
under her statute, then the prohibition is absolute that no
action shall be maintained on the judgment.
4. Article four, section one, of the Constitution provides,
that "full faith and credit shall be given in each State to the
public acts, records, and judicial proceedinigs of every other
State. And the Congress may, by general laws, prescribe
the manner in which such records shall be proved, and the
effect thereof." Congress has exercised that power, and in
effect provided that the judicial records in one State shall be
proved in the tribunals of another, by the attestation of the
clerk, under the seal of the court, with the certificate of the
judge that the attestation is in due form. 2. That such records so autheaticated ''shall have such faith and credit given
to them in every other court in the United States as they
have by law or usage in the courts of the State from whence
the said records were or shall be taken."*
1 SLat. at Large, 122; D'Arcy v. Ketchum et aP, 11 Howard, 175.

302

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

When the question of the construction of that act of Congress was lirst presented to this court it was argued that'the
act provided only for the admission of such records as evidence; that it did not declare their effect; but the court refused to adopt the proposition, and held, as the act expressly
declares, that the record, when duly authenticated, shall have
in every other court of the United States the same faith and
credit as it has in the State court from whence it was taken.*
Repeated decisions made since that time have affirmed
the same rule, which is applicable in all similar cases where
it appears that the court had jurisdiction of the cause, and
that the defendant was duly served with process, or appeared
and made defene.t Where the jurisdiction has attached
the judgment is conclusive for all purposes, and is not oper
to any inquiry upon the merits.. Speaking of the before.
mentioned act of Congress, Judge Story says it has been
settled, upon solemn argument, that that enactment does
declare the effect of the records as evidence when duly authenticated. . . . "If a judgment is conclusive in the
State where it was pronounced, it is equally conclusive
everywhere" in the courts of the United States.ยง
5. Applying these rules to the present case, it is clear that
the statute which is the foundation of the second plea in this
case is unconstitutional and void as affecting the right of the
plaintiff to enforce the judgment mentioned in the declaration. Beyond all doubt the judgment was valid in Kentucky and conclusive between the parties in all her tribunals. Such was the decision of the highest court in the
State, and it was undoubtedly correct; and if so, it is not
cQnpetent for any other State to authorize its courts to
open the merits and review the cause, much less to enact
that such a judgment shall not roceive the same faith and
* Mills v. Duryeo, 7 Cranch, 488.

- Hampton v. McConnel, 8 Wheaton., 832; Nations et al. v. Johnson et
al., 24 Howard, 203; D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 lIa. 165; Webster v. Reid, Id.
460.
1 Bissell v. B1riggs, 9 Massachusetts, 462; United States Bank v. Mer.
chants' Bank, 7 Gill, 480.
J 2 Story on Constitution (3d ed.), 1318.

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTMAS V. IRUSSFLL.

303

Opinion of the court.

credit that by law it had in the State courts from which it
was taken.
II1 1. Second error assigned is that the court erred in sustaining the denurrer to the fourth plea, which alleged that
the judgment was procured by the fraud of the plaintiff.
First proposition assumed by the present defendant is, that
the plea is defective and insufficient, because it does not set
forth the particular acts of the plaintiff which are the subject
of complaint. But the substance of the plea, if allowable at
all, is well enough under a general demurrer, as in this case.
Whether general or special, a demurrer admits all such matters of fact as are sufficiently pleaded, and to that extent it is
a direct admission that the facts as alleged are true.*
Where the objection is to matter of substance, a general
demurrer is sufficient; but-where it is to matter of form only,
a special demurrer is necessary. Demurrers, says Chitty,
are either general or special: general, when no particular
cause is alleged; special, when the particular imperfection
is pointed out and insisted upon as the ground of demurrer.
The former will suffice when the pleading is defective in
substance, and the latter is requisite where the objection is
only to the form of the pleading.t Obviously the objection
is to the form of the plea, and is not well taken by a general
demurrer.
2. But the second objection is evidently to the substance
of the plea, and therefore is properly before the court for
decision. Substance of the second objection of the present
defendant to the fourth plea is, that inasmuch as the judgment is conclusive between the parties in the State where it
was rendered, it is equally so in every other court in the
United States, and consequently that the plea of fraud in
procuring the judgment is not a legal answer to the declaration. Principal question in the case of Mills v. Duryee was
whether nil debet was a good plea to an action founded on a
judgment of another State. Much consideration was given
* Nowlan v. Geddes, 1 East, 634; Gundry v. Feltham, 1 Term, 834;
Stephens on Pleading, 142.
t 1 Chitty's Pleading, 663; Snyder v. Croy, 2 Johnson, 428.

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

to the case, and the decision was that the record of a State
court, duly authenticated under the act of Congress, must
have in every other court of the United States such fhith
and credit as it had in the State court from whence it was
taken, and that nil debet was not a good plea to such an
action.
Congress, say the court, have declared the effect of the
record by declaring what faith and credit shall be given to
it. Adopting the language of the court in that case, we say
that the defendant had full notice of the suit, and it is beyond all doubt that the judgment of the court was conclusive upon the parties in that State. "It must, therefore, be
conclusive here also." Unless the merits are open to exception and trial between the parties, it is difficult to see how the
plea o fraud can be admitted as an answer to the action.
3. Domestic judgments, under the rules of the common
law, could not be collaterally impeached or called in question if rendered in a court of competent jurisdiction. It
could only be done directly by writ of error, petition for
new trial, or by bill in chancery. Third persons only, says
Saunders, could set up the defence of fraud or collusion, and
not the parties to the record, whose only relief was in equity,
except in the case of a judgment obtained on a cognovit or
a warrant of attorney.*
Common law rules placed foreign judgments upon a different fboting, and those rules remain, as a general remark,
unchanged to the present time. Under these rules a foreign
judgment was pria facie evidence of the debt, and it was
open to examination not only to show that the court in which
it was rendered had no jurisdiction of the subject-matter, but
also to show that the judgment was fraudulently obtained.
Recent decisions, however, in the parent country, hold that
even a foreign judgment is so far conclusive upon a defendant that he is prevented from alleging that the promises upon
which it is founded were never made or were obtained by
fraud of the plaintiff.t
2 Saunders on Pleading and Evidence, part 1, p. 68.
f Bank of Australasia v. Nias, 4 English Law and Equity, 252.

Dee. 1866]

CHRISTMAS V. RUSSELL.

305

Opinion of the court.

4. Cases may be found in which it is held that the judgment
of a State court, when introduced as evidence in the tribunals of another State, are to be regarded in all respects as
domestic judgments. On the other hand, another class of
cases mniglit be cited in which it is hed that such judgments
in the courts of another State are foregn judgments, and that
as such the judgment is open to every inquiry to which other
foreign judgments may be subjected under the rules of the
common law. Neither class of these decisions is quite correct. They certainly are not foreign judgments under the
Constitution and laws of Congress in any proper sense, because they "' shall have such faith and credit given to them
in every other court within the United States as they have
by law or usage in the courts of the State from whence"
they were taken, nor are they domestic judgments in every
sense, bectuse they are not the proper faunation of final
process, except in the State where they were rendered. Besides, they are open to inquiry as to the jurisdiction of the
court and notice to the defendant; but in all other respects
they have the same faith and credit as domestic jludgments.*
Subject to those qualifications, the judgment of a State
court is colnclusive in the courts of all the other States
wherever the same matter is brought in controversy. Established rule is, that so long as the judgment remains in
force it is of itself conclusive of the right of the plaintiff to
the thing adjudged in his favor, and gives him a right to
process, mesne or final,, as the case may be, to execute the

judgment.t
5. Exactly the same point was decided in the ease of Benton v. Bttrgol, + which, in all respects, was substantially like the
present case. The action was debt on judgment recovered
in a court of another State, and the defendant appeared and
pleaded nil debet, and that the judgment was obtained by
fraud, imposition, and mistake, and without consideration.
D'Arcy v. Ketchum et al., 11 Howard, 165; Webster v. Reid, Id. 437.
*FVoorhees v. United States Bank, 10 Peters, 449; Huff v. Hutchingson,
14 Howalrd, 588.
+ 10 Sergeant & Rawle, 240.
VOL. V.

20

CHRISTMAS

V. RUSSELL.

[Skip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Plaintiff demnurred to those pleas, and the court of original
jurisdiction gave judgment for the defendant. Whereupon
the plaintiff brought error, and the Supreme Court of the
State, after full argumrent, reversed the judgment and directed judgment for the plaintiff. Domestic judgments, say
the Supreme Court of Maine, even if fraudulently obtained,
must nevertheless be considered as conclusive until reversed
or set aside.* Settled rule, also, in the Supreme Court of
Ohio, is that the judgment of another State, rendered in a
case in which the court had jurisdiction, has all the force in
that State of a domestic judgment, and that the plea of fraud
is not available as an answer to an action on the judgment,
Express decision of the court is, that such a judgment can
only be impeached by a direct proceeding in chancery.t
Similar decisions have been made in) the Supreme Court
of Massachusetts, and it is there held that a party to a judgment cannot be permitted in equity, any more than at law,
collaterally to impeach it on the ground of mistake or fraud,
when it is ofibred in evidence against him in support of the
title which was in issue in the cause in which it was recovered.. Whole current of decisions upon the subject in that
State seems to recognize the principle that when a cause of
action has been instituted in a proper forum, where all matters of defence were open to the party sued, the judgment
is conclusive until reversed by a superior court having jurisdiction of the cause, or until the same is set aside by a direct
proceeding in chancery.ยง State j udgmenti, in courts of competent jurisdiction, are also helh by the Supreme Court of
Vermont to be conclusive as between the parties until the
same are reversed or in some manner set aside and annulled. Strangers, say the court, may show that they were
collusive or fraudulent; but they bind parties and privies.II
Granger v. Clark, 22 Maine, 180.
- Anderson v. Anderson, 8 Ohio, 108.
: B. & W. Railroad v. Sparhawk, 1 Allen, 448; Homer v. Fish, 1 Pickering, 435.
McRae v. Mattoon, 13 Pickering, 57.

II Atkinsons

v. Allen, 12 Vermont, 624.

Dec. 1866.]

GREEN V. VAN BUSKIRK.

307

Syllabus.

Redfield, Ch. J., said, in the case of lanonond v. Wilder,*
tLat there was no case in which the judgment of a court of
record of general jurisdiction had been held void, unless for
a defect of jurisdiction.

Less uniformity exists in the re-

ported decisions upon the subject in the courts of New York,
but all those of recent date are to the same effect. Take,
for example, the case of Em bury v. Conner,t and it is clear
that the same doctrine is acknowledged and enfbrced. Indeed, the court, in effect, say that the rule is undeniable
that the judgment or decree of a court possessing competent
jurisdiction is final, not only as to the subject thereby determined, but as to every other matter which the parties
might have litigated in the cause, and which they might
have had decided.T Same rule prevails in the courts of New
Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, and in most of
the other States.ยง
For these reasons our conclusion is, that the fourth plea
of the defendant is bad upon general demurrer, and that
there is no error in the record. The judgment of the Circuit Court " j, therefbre,
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

GREEN

V. VAN BUSKIRK.

1. Where.personal property is seized and sold under an attachment, or other
writ, issuing from a court of the State where the property is, the question of the liability of the property to be sold under such writ, must be
determined by the law of that State, notwithstanding the domicil of all

the claimants to the property may be in another State.
2. In a suit in any other State growing out of such seizure and sale, the

effect of the proceedings by which it was sold, with title to the property,
must be determined by the law of the State where those proceedings
were had.

8. The refusal of the State court in which such suit may be tried, to give
23 Vermont, 346.

t 3 Comstock, 522.

: Dobson v. Pearce, 2 Kernan, 165.

Hollister v. Abbott, 11 Foster, 448; Rathbone v. Terry, 1 Rhode Island,
7; Topp v The Bank, 2 Swan, p. 188 ; Wall v. Wall, 28 Mississippi, 413.

