326

TOWNSEND V. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

TOWNSEND ET AL.

v.

GREELEY.

I. The treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo between the United States and Mexico
does not divest the pueblo, existing at the site of the city of San Francisco, of any rights of property or alter the character of the interests it
may have held in any lands under the former government. It makes no
distinction in the protection it provides between the property of individuals and the property held by towns under the Mexican government.
2. The act of March 3d, 1851, does not change the nature of estates in land
held by individuals or towns. By proceedings under that act, imperfect
rights,-mere equitable claims,-might be converted by the decrees of
the board created by the act or of the courts, and the patent of the government following, into legal titles; but if the claim was held subject to
any trust before presentation to the board the trust was not discharged
by the confirmation and the subsequent patent. The confirmation only
enures to the benefit of the confirmee so far as the legal title is concerned.
It does not determine the equitable relations between him and third parties.
3. By the laws of Mexico, in force on the acquisition of the country, pueblos
or towns in California were entitled, for their benefit and the benefit of
their inhabitants, to the use of lands constituting the site of such pueblos
and towns, and of adjoining lands, within certain prescribed limits. The
right of the pueblos in these lands was a restricted and qualified right
to alienate portions of the land to its inhabitants for building or cultivation, and to use the remainder for commons, for pasture lands, or as a
source of revenue, or for other public purposes. This right of disposition
and use was, in all particulars, subject to the control of the government
of the country.
4. Lands thus held by pueblos or towns, under the Mexican government,
are not held by them in absolute property, but in trust for the benefit
of their inhabitants ; and are held subject to a similar trust by municipal bodies, created by legislation since the conquest, which have succeeded
to the possession of such property.
5. The municipal lands held by the city of San Francisco, as successor to the
former pueblo existing there, being held in trust for its inhabitants, are
not the subject of seizure and sale under judgment and execution against
the city.

ON the 20th of June, 1855, the common council of the city
of San Francisco, the legislative body of that city, passed.
"An ordinance for the settlement and quieting of the land
titles in the city of San Francisco." This ordinance is generally known in San Francisco as " The Van Hess ordi-

Dec. 1866.]

ToWNSIEND V. GREELEY.

327

Statement of the case

nance," after the name of its reputed author. By the second section of the ordinance the city relinquished and
granted all her right and claim to the lands within the corporate limits, as defined by the charter of 1851, with certain
exceptions, to the parties in the actual possession thereof, by
themselves or tenants, on or before the 1st day of January,
1855, and to their heirs and assigns forever, provided such
possession continued up to the time of the introduction of
the ordinance into the common council; or, if interrupted
by an intruder or tr espasser, had been or might be recovered by legal process. This ordinance was ratified by the
legislature of the State on the 11th of March, 1858.
At the time this ordinance was passed the city of San
Francisco asserted a claim to four square leagues of land, as
successor of a Mexican pueblo, established and in existence
at the site of the present city, and had presented her claim
for the same to the board of commissioners created under
the "act to ascertain and settle the private land claims in
the State of California," of March 3d, 1851, for confirmation, and the board had confirmed the clain for a portion
of the land and rejected the claim for the rest. The portion
confirmed included the premises in controversy.
One Greeley, having acquired title to certain premises
from parties who were in the actual possession of them at
the time mentioned in the ordinance, brought the present
action, ejectment, ia one of the District Courts of the State
of California, against two persons whom he found in occupation,-Townsend and Powelson, defendants below,-to
oust them. The defendants filed separate answers.
Townsend, after pleading a general denial, averred as a
separate answer, in substance, "that by the treaty of peace
between the United States and Mexico, dated at Guadalupe
Hidalgo, February 2d, 1848, the ownership and title in fee
simple of the lot passed to and became vested in the United
States, and that the United States afterwards, by force and
effect of the act of the Congress thereof, passed March 3d,
1851, entitled 'An act to ascertain and settle the private
land claims in the State of California,' and by force and

828

TOWNSEND

V. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

effect of the final decision and decree of the board of corn.
missioners of said United States, appointed and acting thereunder (upon the petition and claim of the city of San Francisco, prese'ited to and filed before said board in favor of
said city), the ownership and title in fee so acquired*and held
by the United States passed to and vested in the city of San
Francisco; and that by divers mesne conveyances, and by
force of divers ordinances of the said city, and an act or acts
of the legislature of California the title in fee had, prior to
the 28th day of March, A. D. 1862, become, and then was,
vested in and held by one Mumiford, who executed a lease
of the premises to the defendant Powelson, under which
Powelson entered and took possession, and has ever since
continued, and still is, lawfully, peaceably, and rightfully in
possession thereof." And that all acts done bythe defendant Townsend with reference to the premises, have been
done as the agent and attorney of the said Mumford, and
by his authority, and by the license and permission of the
said Powelson, his lessee.
The answer of the other defendant, Powelson, was substantialiy the same, except that he averred that he held as
tenant under Mumford.
On the trial various exceptions were taken to the ruling
of the court upon matters relating to the possession of the
plaintiff, but the manner in which the matters arose are not
stated, because the rulings made thereon are not noticed by
the court, for the reasons given in its opinion.
The defendants offered in evidence a certified copy of the
petition of the city of San Francisco, filed on the seeond
day of July, A. I).1852, before the board of United States
Land Commissioners, appointed and sitting under the already mentioned act of Congress of March 3, 1851; the said
copy being certified to be a true copy of said petition by the
United States Surveyor-General of California.
Also, in connection With the said petition, a certified copy.
of the decree of said boa/d of land commissioners thereUpon made, and filed in the office of the secretary of said
board on the 21st of December, A. D. 1854, confirming to

Dec. 1866.]

TOWNSEND

v.

GREELEY.

Statement of the case.

the city a tract of land therein described; the said last-mentioned copy being likewise certified by said surveyor-general
to bea true copy of the said decree.
The court then~inquiring of the defendants and requiring
them to state by what proof they intended to follow the said
documentary evidence, they offered to prove that the premises in controversy were a part of the land described in the
decree of confirmation ; that the appeal for the decree was
dismissed by the District Court of the United States, March
30, 1857, and that the decree had become final; and they
also offered to deraign title to the premises in,dispute under
said confirmation, from the city to Mumford, by conveyances executed and delivered since the decree of confirmation, and since the dismissal of the appeal therefrom, and
prior to the 28th day of March, A. D. 1862, and offered
to justify the tacts of Townsend done in reference to the
premises, by proving authority for his acts as agent and
attorney for Mumford, and to justify the entry of the defendant Powelson by proving a lease to him of the premises
from Mumford.
The court then inquiring further of the defendants, and
requiring them to state by what means, and in what particular manner they expected to deraign title to Mumford from
the city, they offered to show the recovery of a judgment
against the city. the issue of an execution thereon, and the
sale by the sheriff of the county thereunder of the premises
in controversy, and the purchase of the same by one Wakeman, the delivery of a sheriff's deed to him, and his conveyance of his interest to the said Mumford.
Thereupon the plaintiff objected to the admission of the
evidence offered, or of any part of it, on various grounds,
and among others, on the ground that the premises in controversy were not subject to seizure and sale under execution upon a judgment against the city; and hence that the
title could not be affected in any way by the introduction of
the evidence offered. The court sustained the objection and
excluded the evidence. The defendants excepted to the ruling. The plaintiff had judgment, and the Supreme Court

330

TOWNSEND V. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for plaintiffs in error.

of the State having affirmed it, the case was here upon
writ of error, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act.
Messrs. Ewing and Vanarman, for the plaintiffs in, error:
The court below erred in excluding from the jury the evidence ofi red by the defendants of the final confirmation of
the premises in controversy by the United States to the city,
and of the deraigunient of title thereto friom the city to Mumford, under whom they undertook and claimed the right, to
justify their possession.
1. By the treaty of February 2, 1848, between the United
States and the Mexican Republic, commonly known as that
of Guadalupe Iidalgo, the title to all lands then vested in
the Mexican Republic within what is now the State of California, passed to and became vested in the United States.*
2. By presuinplion of law all lands within this State are
deemed public lands, and the title thereto vested in the United States until the title is shown to be elsewhere.t And
this presumption applies as well to lands situated within the
limits of a " pueblo" as elsewhere.
3. The confirmation, therefore, by the United States of the
premises in dispute to the city of San Francisco, by decree
of the United States Commissioners, dated December 21,
1854, made final March 30th, 1857 (which the defendants
offered to prove by the evdence excluded by the court), operated to vest the title of the United States, from that date,
in the city.ยง
Art. V of the Treaty.
t Act of Congress admitting California, 3; California Statutes, 1856, p.
54, 0 1; People v . Folsom, 5 California, 377; Burdge v. Smith, 14 Id. 388.
.1 Brown v. San Francisco, 16 California, 459, 460; Chouteau v. Eckhart,
2 Howard, 344; Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Id. 464.

Act to Settle Private Land Claims in California,

15, 9 Stat. at Large,

634; Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 316; Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Id. 463,
464; Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 Id. 836, 336, 837; Waterman v. Smith, 18 Cali-

fo-nia, 419; Moore v. Wilkinson, Id. 488; Gregory v. McPherson, Id. 574;
Natoma W. & Al. Co. v. Clarkin, 14 Id. 550, 551; Soto v. Kroder, 19 Id. 96;
Estrada v. Murphy, Id. 272-274.

Dec. 1866.]

TOWNSEND

V. GREELEY.

331

Argument for the defendant in error.

4. The title so acquired was one upon which an action of
ejeetment could be maintained, and, of course, defended.*
5. The title so acquired was a complete American title under
the act of Congress, though derived from Mexico through
the United States, and was the legal title in fee simple absolute.t
6. No trust attached upon this title. If any holding in
trust could be predicated of lands being " situated within
the limits of a pueblo," or of their being " reserved or set
apart for the uses of a pueblo," nothingZ of either kind was
shown in this case, and neither this court nor the court below
could acquire any knowledge of either of those facts, except
by proof.
Messrs. TV. M. Stewart and C. Burbank, contra, for the defendant in error:
The court below, in the trial of the action, properly excluded the decree of the United States Land Commissioners
confirming the title of the city of San Francisco to the pueblo lands and the evidence offered of the deraignment of
the title of the city to Mumford; because1. The defendants only proposed to connect themselves
with the title of the city by showing a judgment against the
city and an execution sale under it. This would not show
title in them ; because1st. San Francisco was a pueblo at the date of the conquest and cession of California, with the municipal rights of
such a body.
2d. The city, as successor to such pueblo, has a right and
title to the uplands within her limits, and holds those undisposed of in trust for the uses and purposes of the municipality.
3d. The lands thus held in trust are not subject to seizure
and sale tnder execution against the city.T
Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 452-454; Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard,
816, 317; Stanford v. Taylor, 18 Id. 412; Bryan v. Forsyth, 19 Id. 336, 337.
t See Opinion of United States Land Commissioners in the City Case;
Bissell v. Penrose, 8 Howard, 381 ; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 453, 454;

Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 316, 317; Les Bois v. Bramell, 4 Id. 464
: Hart v. Burnett, 15 California, 615; Fulton v. Hanlow, 20 Id. 450.

832

TOWNSEND V. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

II. The decree of confirmation did not, as asserted by the
defendants, give an American title to the city. It only established the ftiet that San Francisco was a pueblo, and that
the lands within her limits were not a portion of the public
lands of the United States. It followed, as an inevitable
conclusion, that the pueblo held the lands within its limits
for the uses and purposes of the municipality.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment to recover the possession of
a tract of land situated within the corporate limits of the
city of San Francisco, in the State of California. The plaintiff in the court below, the defendant in this court, claims to
be owner in fee of the premises, by virtue of an ordinance
of the common council of the city, passed on the 20th of
June, 1855, and an act of the legislature of the State, confirmatory thereof. At the time this ordinance was passed
the city of Francisco asserted title, as successor of a Mexican
pueblo, established and in existence on the acquisition of the
country by the United States, to four square leagues of land,
embracing the site of the present city, and had presented
her claim for the sane to the board of land comnissioners,
created under the act of March 3d, 1851, for recognition and
confirmation, and the board had confirmed the claim to a
portion of the land and rejected the claim for the residue.
The portion confirmed included the premises in controversy
in this case.
By the second section of the ordinance the city relinquished and granted all the title and claim which she thus
held to the land within her corporate limits, as defined by
the charter of 1851, with certain exceptions, to the parties

in the actual possession thereof, by themselves or tenants,
on or before the first day of January, 1855, provided such
possession was continued up to the time of the introduction
of the ordinance into the common council, or if interrupted
by an intruder or trespasser, had been, or might be recoveied by legal process.
Te party through whom the plaintiff in the court below

Dec. 1866.]

TOWNSEND V. GREELEY.

333

Opinion of the court.

traces his title was in such actual possession of the premises
in controversy at the times designated by the ordinance ; at
least the jury must have found, under the instructions of the
court, that he was in such actual possession, and in this court
the finding must be taken as conclusive.
We have not looked into the rulings of the court below
upon this matter, and therefore do not intimate, nor have
we any reason to suppose that error intervened. We have
not looked into those rulings, because if error was committed, it would not constitute ground of reversal.
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,
under which alone this court has jurisdiction to review the
final judgments and decrees of the highest courts of a State,
provides for such review only in three classes of cases:
First. Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or authority exercised under the United States,
and the decision is against their validity;
Seeond. Where is drawn in question the validity of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any State, on the
ground of their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor
of their validity ; and
Third. Where is drawn in question the construction of
any clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty or statute of,
or commission held under the United States, and the decision is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up or clai,med by either party under such clause
of the Constitution, treaty, statute, or commission. And in
these eases no error can be regarded as ground of reversal
except it appear on the face of the record, and relate to these
questions of validity or construction.
The inquiry then is, whether error was committed in the
disposition of any questions of this character arising upon
the record.
The defendants in the court below alleged in their answer
to the complaint-the designation applied in the practice of
California to the first pleading in a civil action, whether at
law o in equity-in substance as follows: that by virtue of

334

TOWNSEND V. GREELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the treaty of Guadalupe Hlidalgo, between the United States
and the Republic of Mexico, the ownership and fee of the
premises in controversy passed to the United States; that by
force of the act of March 3d, 1851, to ascertain and settle
private land claims in California, and the final decree of the
board of commissioners created under that act, the ownership and fee of the premises vested in the city of San Francisco; and that by various inesne conveyances and ordinances of the city, and acts of the legislature of the State, they
passed to one Mumford, under whom one of the defendants
holds as tenant, and for whom the other has acted as agent.
On the trial the defendants produced the petition of the
city of San Francisco to the board of land commissioners
for confirmation of the claim asserted to four square leagues;
the decision of the board confirming the claim to a portion
of the land; the dismissal of the appeal on the part of the
United States by order of the District Court, in March,
1857; the recovery of a judgment against the city; the issue
of an execution thereon; the purchase of the premises by
one Wakeman; the delivery of a sheriff's deed to him; and
the transfer of' his title by sundry mesne conveyances to
Mumford.
Upon objection the evidence thus of.bred was excluded on
various grounds, and among others that the title of the city
to the premises Was not the subject of seizure and sale under
execution. This ruling denied the position assumed by the
defendants in their answer respecting the operation of' the
treaty, the act of Congress, and the decision of the board in
passing a fee simple title to the city; for if the city had in
this way, or in any other way, become invested with a title
in fee simple at the time the judgment was docketed or the
execution was issued, there could -be no question that the
title passed by the sheriff's sale and deed.
The treaty of Guadalupe H-idalgo does not purport to
divest the pubblo, existing at the site of the city of San
Francisco, of any rights of property, or to alter the character
of the interests it may have held in any lands under the
former government 1f, provides for the protection of the

Dec. 1866.]

TOWNSEND

v. GREELEY.

335

Opinion of the court.

rights of the inhabitants of the ceded country to their prop.
erty; and there is nothing in any of its clauses inducing the
inference that any distinction was to be made with reference
to the property claimed by towns under the Mexican government. The subsequent legislation of Congress does not favor
any such supposition, for it has treated the claims of such
towns as entitled to the same protection as the claims of
individuals, and has authorized their presentation to the
board of commissioners for confirmation.
Nor is there anything in the act of Alarch 3d, 1851, which
changes the nature of estates in land held by individuals or
towns. One of the objects of that act was to enable claimants
of land, individual or municipal, by virtue of any right or
title derived from Spain or Mexico, to obtain a recognition
of their claims, and, when these were of an imperfect character, to furnish a mode for perfecting them.
Thus the government provided for discharging the obligation of protection cast upon it by the stipulations of the
treaty, and at the same time for separating private lands
from the public domain. By proceedings under that act,
imperfect rights-mere equitable claims-might be converted by the decrees of the board or courts, and the patent
of the government following, into legal titles; but whether
the legal title thus secured to the patentee was to be held by
him charged with any trust, was not a matter upon which
either board or court was called upon to pass. If the claim
was held subject to any trust, before presentation to the
board, the trust was not discharged by the confirmation and
the subsequent patent. The confirmation only enures to the
benefit of the confirmee so far as the legal title is concerned.
It establishes the legal title in him, but it does not determine the equitable relations between him and third parties.
It is true if a claim were presented by one designating himself as trustee, executor, or guardian, or if such relation of
the claimant to others appeared in the examination of the
case before the board or courts, the decree might declare
that the confirmation was to the claimant in such fiduciary
character. But if the trust was not stated, and did- not

TOWNSEND v. GRP,,ELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appear, the legal title was none the less subject to the same
trust in the hands of the claimant.
By the laws of Mexico, in fore at the date of the acquisition of the country, pueblos or towns were entitled, for their
benefit and the benefit of their inhabitants, to the use of
lands constituting the site of such pueblos and towns, and
of adjoining lands, within certain 1 )rescribed limits. This
right appears to have been common to the cities and towns
of Spain from an early period in her history, and was recognized in the laws and ordinances for the settlement and government of her colonies on this continent. These laws and
ordinances provided for the assignment to the pueblos or
tow'ns, when once established and officially recognized, for
their use and'the use of their inhabitants, of four square
leagues of land.
It may be difficult to state with precision the exact nature
of the right or tide which the pueblos held in these lands.
It was not an indefeasible estate; ownership of the lands in
the pueblos could not in strictness be affirmed. It amounted
in truth to little more than a restricted and qualified right
to alienate portions of the land to its inhabitants for building or cultivation, and to use the remainder for commons,
for pasture-lands, or as a source of revenue, or fbr other
public purposes. This right of disposition and use was, in
all particulars, subject to the control of the government of
the country.
The royal instructions of November, 1789, for the establishrnent 'of the town of Pictic, in the province of Sonora,
were made applicable to all new towns which should be established within the district under the Commandant General, and that included California. They gave special directions for the establishment and government of the new pueblos, declared that there should be assigned to them -four.
square leagues of land, and provided for the distribution of
building and farming lots to settlers, the laying out of pasture-lands, and lands from which a revenue was to be derived, and for the appropriation of the residue to the use of
the inhabitants

Dec. 1866.]

T0WNSEND

v. GREELEY.

Opinion of the court.

It is evident from this brief .tatement that these lands
were not assigned to the pueblos in absolu'te property, but
were to be held in trust for the benefit of their inhabitants.
This is the view taken by the Supreme Court of the State
of California after an extehded and elaborate consideration
of the subject.*
This view was also taken by the Circuit Court of th
United States, in tile final decree confirming the claim of the
city to her municipal lands. Since the trial of the present
cause in the cout below, the appeal taken by the city from
the decree of the board of commissioners has been heard by
the Circuit Court of the United States, to which the case was
transferred under the act of July 1st, 1864.t That decree
declares that the confirmation "is in trust for the benefit of
the lot-holders, under grants from the pueblo, town, or city
of San Francisco, or other competent authority, and as to
any residue, in trust for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of the city." From this decree the United States and
the city of San Francisco appealed, the United States from
the whole decree, and the city from so much thereof as
included certain lands reserved for public purposes in the
estimate of the quantity confirmed; but during the present
term of this court both parties have, by stipulation, withdrawn their objections, and their respective appeals have
been dismissed. It is therefore now the settled law that the
municipal lands held by the city of San Francisco, as successor to the former pueblo existing there, are not held in absolute property, but in trust for its inhabitants. Trust property, thus held, is not the subject of seizure and sale under
judgment and execution against the trustee, whether that
trustee be a natural or an artificial person.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
NOTE.

Another case-Townsend v. Burbank-substantially the same
inquestion and principle with the one preceding and like it froiji
SHart v.

Burnett, 15 California, 530; Fulton v. Hanlow, 20 Id. 480.

13 Stat. at Large, 333; 3 Wallace, 686.
VOL. V.

22

FRANCIS V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the Supreme Court of California, was decided in the same way
with it: the CHIEF JUSTICE delivering the judgment of this
court
AFFIRMING

THE JUDGMENT BELOW.

FRANCIS V. UNITED STATES.
Although, under the act of 6th August, 1861, " to confiscate property used
for insurrectionary purposes," an informer may file an information along
with the Attorney-(General, and so make the proceeding elnure, under the

act, to his own benefit equally as to the benefit of the United States, yet,
after the proceeding has been instituted by the Attorney-General alone,
and wholly for the benefit of the United States, and after issue has been
joined and proofs furnished by other parties, no person can come in asserting himself to have been the informer, and so share the benefit of the proceeding.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Missouri.
The record showed a libel of information against certain
bales of cotton marked C. S. A., as belonging to persons in
insurrection against the United States, and the confiscation
of which was demanded under the act of 6th August, 1861,
entitled "An act to confiscate property used for insurrectionary purposes." [For the sake or distinction this case was
numbered 939.] The act just referred to provides (by its
third section, which indicates the persons who may institute
proceedings)-

" That the Attorney-General or any District Attorney of the
United States in which said property may at the time be, may
institute the proceedings of condemnation; and in such case they
shall be wholly for the benefit of the United States. Or any person
may file an information with such attorney, in which case the
proceeding shall be for the use of such informer and the United
States, in equal parts."
The order for the detention of the cotton was dated 18th
October, 1862, and recited that it appeared, on the return of
a warrant of arrest issued in case No. 934, that the marshal

