.PACKET COMPANY V., SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.
1. Where the record of a former suit is offered in evidence, the declaration
setting out a special contract, but not saying whethe, it was written 'or
parol, and where jurors who were empanelled in the former suit are
brought to testify that the contract declared on in the second suit was the
same contract that was in controversy in the former one, and was passed
on by them, testimony may be given on the other side that the contract
was a parol one ;-so as to let in a defence of the statute of frauds.
[In the District of Columbia, in which the suits in this case were brought,
the British statute of frauds, providing that " no suit shall be brought
to charge any person upon any agreement that was not to be performed
in oue year, unless there was some memorandum or note in writing of
the agreement," was in force. And the fact that the contract declared
on was a parol one, and so within the statute, was one of the matters
meant to be relied on by the defendants in the second trial.]
2. A- contract where performance is to run through a term of years, but
which, by its tenor, may be defeated at any time before the expiration
of the term-ex. gr. a contract to pay for a right to use an inventioij, on a certain boat, so much a year during the term of a patent
having twelve years~yet to run, "if the said boat should so long last,"is ,within the clause of the statute quoted in the preceding paragraph.
In this case, which had become somewhat. complicated by several trialA
below, and which had been in this court on error more than once, and
was now returned with a mandate for a venire de nove, the court makes
two observations over and above the points above stated as adjudged :
(i) That the secret deliberations of the jury or grounds of their proceedings
while engagdd in making up their verdict, are not competent or admissible evidence of the issues or finding ; but that their evidence should be
.confined to the points in controversy on the former trial, to the testimony given by the parties, and to the questions submitted to the jury for
their consideration ; and that then the record furnishes the only proper
proof of the verdict.
(ii) That where theextrinsic proof of the identity of the cause of action is
such that the court must submit the question to the jury as a matter of
fact, any other matters.in defence or support of the action, as the case
may be, should be admitted on the trial, under proper instructions.

T is was a suit brought in the Supreme Court (the former
Circuit Court) of'the District of Columbia to recover damages
under a special contract set forth in the declaration.
The contract, in substance, was, that on the 18th of June,
1844, the plaintiffi below, Sickles & Cook, and the Wash-

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET

COMPANY V.

SICKLES.

581

Statement of the case

ington, &c., Steam Packet Company, the defendants, agreed
that Sickles & Cook should attach, for use, to a steamboat
owned by tl-e company, the Sickles cut-off, a certain patenlted
contrivance which was designed to effect the saving of fuel
in the working of steam engines; and that, in) consideration
thereof, if the said cut-off should effect a saving in the consumption of fuel, the company would use it on their boat
durig the continuance of the said patent, IF the said boat should
last so long, and that they would, for the use of the cut-off, pay
to the plaintiffs, weekly, three-fourths of the value of the fuel
saved. The palent had, at the date of the alleged contract,yet twelve
years to run. The declaratiou set forth further, that it wag
agreed between the parties that the saving of the fuel caused
by the use of the said cut-off should be ascertained by taking two piles of wood of equal quantity and burning one pile
without and the other with the use of the cut-off; and thus
to ascertain how much longer the boat would run, under the
same circumstances, with the use of the cut-off than without,
and that the proportion of savings as agreed upon above
should be paid by the defendants. It alleged finally, that
this experiment had been fairly made, and showed a saving
of fuel by the use of the cut-off of thirty-four per cent.
The plaintiffs accordingly claimed the value of threefourths of the fuel thus saved, between certain dates specified.
The defendants pleaded the general issue.
On the trial the plaintiffs, to support the issue, gave in evidence the record of a former trial between the same parties
on the same contract as alleged, for payments due when the
writ in that case was issued, in which trial a verdict and judgment had been rendered in their favor.
The declaration in the record of this former trial contained four counts:
1. A special count on the contract, corresponding in all respects with that set out in the declaration in the present suit.
2. A common count for compensation for the use of the
cut-off by the defendants on their boat before that time had
and enjoyed, and for such an amount as it was reasonably
worth.

PACKET COMPANY V.

S[CKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

3. A common count for money had and received; and
4. A special count on a contract in substance like the
first, with the diflierence hereinafter stated: It recited that,
in consideration the plaintiTff had before that time attached
the said Sickles cut-off to the engine of the defendants'
boat, and had agreed that they should have the use of it
during the continuance of the patent-right, if the boat
should last so long, they, the defendants, undertook and
agreed to pay the plaintiffs three-fourths of the valuq of the
fuel saved by the use of the cut-off; that a large quantity of
the file], to wit, one 'thousand cor:ds of wood, of the value
of $2500, had been saved, yct the defendants, not regarding
their promise, &c., have rulsed, &c. The difference between
this and the first count consists mainly in the omission of
any agreement to ascertain the saving of fuel by the experinient.
To the declaration in this former suit, whose record was
thus oflered in evidence, the defendants had pleaded the
general issue.
It should be here mentioned that this suit had been in
this court betbre. It was here in 1860.* On a trial from
the result of which the writ of error then came, a record of.
a former trial had also been offered in evidence; apparently
the same offered in the suit to whose result the present writ
was taken.
The record offered in that previous trial contained a declaration having two counts upon the contract, with the common counts, a plea of the general issue, a general verdict
for the plaintiffs on the entire declaration,and a judgment on
the first count; a count similar to the counts in the declaration in the suit then pending.
Besides this testimony of the contract, the plaintiffs proved
on 'that previous trial the quantity of fuel used in running
the boat, and relied upon the rates as settled to determine
their demand, and insisted that the defendants were estopped to prove there was no such contract, or to disprove any
See the case in 24 Howard, 334.

vec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SLCKLES.

583

Statement of the case.

one of the averments in the first count of the declaration in
the former suit, or to show that no saving of the wood had
been effected; or to show that the so-called experiment was
not made pursuant to the contract, or was fraudulently
made, and was not a true and genuine exponent of the capacity of the said cut-off; or to prove that the said verdict
was in fhct rendered upon all the testimony and allegations
that were submitted to the jury, and was in point of fact rendered, as by the record it purported to have been, upon
the issues generally, and not upon the first count specially.
The Circuit Court adopted these conclusions of the plaintiffs, and excluded the testimony offered by the defendants
to prove these facts. On the matter coming here in 1860,
by exceptions in that second suit, this court, in 24th Howard,* remarked upon the exclusion of this testimony as follows:
"The record produced by the plaintiff showed that the first;
suit was brought apparently upon the same contract as the second, and that the existence and validity of that contract might
have been litigated. But the verdict might have been rendered
upon the entire declaration, and without special refercnce to the
first count. It was competent to the defendants to show the state
of facts that existed at the trial, with a view to ascertain what was
the matter decided upon by the verdict of the jury. It may have
been that there was no contest in reference to the fairness of the
experiment or to its sufficiency to ascertain the premium to be
paid for the use of the machine; or it may have been that the
pliintiffA abandoned their special counts and recovered upon the
general counts. The judgment rendered in that suit, while it
remains in force, and for the purpose of maintaining its validity,
is conclusive of all the facts properly pleaded by the plaintiffs;
but when it is presented as testimony in another suit, the inquiry is competent whether the same issue has been tried and
settled by it."
Considering, therefore, that the Circuit Court had erred
in holding the Packet Company estopped by the probeed.
Pages 333, 346.

584

PACKEr COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case

ings in the first suit from any inquiry in respect to the matters in issue, and actually tried in that cause, this court reversed the judgment given against it, and the case went
down for trial a second time; the trial, namely, after which
the present writ of error was taken.
On this new trial the plaintiffs called several of the jurors
who had been empanelled in the former trial, to give evidence
of the testimony then given, and also as to the matters in contest before the court on that trial; the purpose in introducing
this extrinsic evidence having-been to prove such facts as, in
connection with the record, would show that the same contract was in controversy in the second suit, and had been
conclusively adjudged in their favor. [Many of these jurors,
it may be remarked, while stating the particulargrounds on
which thcy fomnd the ierdict, and speaking of a contract that
was before theru, did not all speak so definitely as to the
terms of the contract as to make it easy to say whether they
described such a one as was set forth in the first count, or
such a one as was set forth in the last count.]
When the plaintiffs rested, the defendants offered a com)etent witness to prove that the only contract given in evidence on the former trial was by parol, and not reduced to
writing; the purpose of this testimony having had obvious
reference to a provision of the statute of frauds, in force
in the District of Columbia; the words of the statute being:
That no suit shall be brought to charge any person upon
any agreement not to be peformcd in one year, unless there was
some memorandum or note in writing of the agreement," &c.
The evidence thus offered was objected to, and excluded
by the court. The defendants offered to prove, further, that
the contract was by parol, and to be performed at the time
stated in the declaration;which testimony was also objected to,
and excluded, except as to the latter branch. The questions
growing out of this exclusion of evidence were now before
this court on a bill of exceptions for review.
Two questions were, accordingly, raised here:
1. Whether the evidence as above mentioned was rightly
excluded

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

585

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

2. Whether the contract, which it was sought to show
was in issue in the former suit, was now to be regarded as
valid. This question being suggested, of course, by the
above-quoted section of the statute of frauds.
Messrs. Carlisle and Davidge, for the plaintiffin error:
I. The court erred in excluding the testimony:
1. Because the fact that the only evidence offered at the
trial alleged to be an estoppel was parol evidence, was a fact
proper for the consideration of the jury in weighing the
evidence offered by the plaintiffs to show what the prior
jury found.
2. Because the estoppel relied on was not an estoppel of
record, in the strict sense, but was to be applied by the jury
to the subject-matter by parol evidence.
As the case was tried, the court assumed the absolute
truth of the evidence offered by the plaintiffs, and refused
to submit that evidence to the jury, or to allow the defendants to offer any evidence based on the hypothesis that the
estoppel ntight not be found as set up. In other words, the
court undertook to determine the weight of the parol evidence.
3. Because the evidence, if admitted, showed that the testimony submitted at the former, trial had relation only to
the common counts. Evidence of a parol contract could not
support the first count of the declaration in the former suit;
nor could such evidence be objected to, as it was adnlissible
as tending to show the measure of damages under the common counts.
We assert that if, in fact, the prior jury found only a parol
contract, we are not estopped from denying its validity
in law in the present case. We are estopped only from
denying the particular points of facts found, to wit, a parol
promise.
The fact, if true, that we did not, at the former trial, make
objection on this ground was, at most, but an admission for
the purposes of that case. It was am admission of law, which
does not estop in any subsequent 'action. Questions of law

586

PACKET COMPANY V.

SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

are not submitted to, or found by a jury, but only the naked
issue of facts.*
We maintain that the contract being in parol merely was
void in law, since it was not to be performed within one
year.
Taking it for granted, for the present, that it was void,
cases show that courts go far in searching out the particular
point of fact-the pmnehton facli-decided by the prior jury,
and in holding such point to be set aside and different from
the one at issue in the case on trial.
Thus, in COarer v. Jatoes, a case in the English Exchcquer,t

the defendant had given a bond, secured by mortgage for
£600. The mortgage contained a covenant to pay the debts.
The plaintiff sued upon the bond, but the defendant set up
a usurious agreement, and averred that the bond was given
"in pursuance of that agreenoct," and so was void. The
plai tiff replied that it was not given in pursuance of that

agreement, and upon this issue was joined and a verdict
found for the defendant. Afterwards, the plaintiff sued upon
the covenants contained in the mortgage, it being confessedly for the same debt. The defendait pleaded the fbrmer
verdict by way of estoppel, but, on demurrer, the plea was
held had, on the ground that the point of fact found in the
former case was no answer in this; that point being that the
bond was given in pursuance of the complainant's agreemnent, whereas in the present case the point was whether
the covenant was so given, and~whether the agreement itself
was usurious.
The covenant was an agreement to pay the same debts as
were named in the bond; and if the bond was given in pursuance of the complainant's agreement, the inference is irresistihle that the covenant was so also; yet the court made

a distinction.
In the prior case the plaintiff had not denied the fact
of a usurious agreement, but had by his pleading virtually
Richardson v. City of Boston, 19 Howard, 263; Hughes v. Alexander,
5 Duer, 488.
t 13 Meeson & Welsby, 137.

Dec. 1866.J

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

687

Argument for the plaintiff in errdr.

admitted it for the purposes of that case. Held (Alderson,
B.) that his so admitting did not estop him on that point, as
it was one on which the jury did not pass.
So in the present case, we deny that there was a written
contract; we are not estopped from doing so by our not
having denied it at the former trial, nor by the jury finding
that there was a parol contract.
In Burlcu v. Shannon,* a prior judgment had been obtained
against the defendant for the board, for a certain period, of
his wife, who had left his house, she being justitied in doing
so, it was asserted, on the ground, first, of his cruelty, and,
second, of his consent. On a suit to recover board for a
subsequent period, the ground then being that the wife was
absent from cruelty (not his consent), the former verdict was
set up as an estoppel. But its being so was denied on the
ground that it was dubious whether the jury found cruelty,
and that it must be left to the present jury to decide, from
the evidence produced to them, what particular fact (of the
two alleged) the former jury found.
In Sawyer v. Woodbury,t in the same court, a plaintiff had
brought an action of covenant, alleging sev'eral distinct;
breaches. The jury found a general verdict in his favor.
In a subsequent suit-he set up one of those breaches, and
claimed the former verdict as an estoppel. But the court
held that evidence might be adduced to enable the jury to
decide which breach it was the prior jury found.
II. The alleged contract, if merely parol, was void.
The statute avoids all edntracts not "to be" performed
within one year-meaning acts agreed not to be so performed ; acts agreed to be done beyond the end of one year.
Now, the acts stipulated to be done by the defendant in this
case were, as alleged, to pay the money at certain intervals
throughout the term of twelve years. In order to perform
the contracts, the defendant must make these payments.
In case the boat ceased to exist during that term, the defendants would then, indee-, be excused from paying after* 14 Gray, 433.

7 Id. 499.

PACKET COMPANY V.

[ICCLES.
[Sup.
Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

wards; but this would be a defeasance, as if by a conditiou
subsequent, not a perfbrmance of the contract.
Had the w6rds, "if the boat shall last so long," not been
inserted, there can be no question that the alleged agreement would be void. Can these words cause a difference?
The agreement was, not to pay so long as the boat should
last. If that had been the agreement, then it might possibly have been fully performed in one year. But the agreement was, to pay for twelve years, though it was provided
that such payments fbr that period might be excused and
dispensed with, if the boat should previously cease to exist.
The fact that further performance may be thus dispensed
with will not take the case out of the statute.*
Mr. -Bradley, contra.
I. By the testimony of the fbrmerjurors, it appears that the
contract specially declared on in the first two counts of the
declaration in the second cause-the experiment provided
for in that contract; the result of that experiment, and the
consequent saving of fuel to the defendants-were the main
issues in that cause, and.were Iound by thatjpry.
Now, it will thu be seen that there are only two questions:
1. Was the verdict and judgment on"the former trial conclusive on all the questions directly in issue on that trial,
upon the proof offered by the plaintiffs, if believed by the
jury ?
2. Could the defendants go behind that verdict and judgconfined themselves to proof of
ment while the plainti
what was then in issue and tried by the jury?
As to the first, we submit that it was, and that the court
below was right in rejecting all evidence tending to show
that no such contract had been made, or that the contract was
not in writing, or that the experiment was insufficient to establish the rate of saving, or that it had been unfairly or
fraudulently conducted. All these matters were involved
Birch v. Earl of Liverpool, 9 Barnewall and Cresswell, 392; Roberts v.
Tucker, 3 Exchequer R. 632; Dobson v. Collis, 1 Hurlstone and Norman, 81.

liec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY

V.

SICKLES.

589

Argument for the defendant in error.

in the issues raised by the two counts in the declaration and
the pleas in the former action, and passed upon by the jury,
as shown by the witnesses.
The other question may be more novel ; but, according to
general principles of law, and according to the settled law
of Maryland, by which it is to be determined, is free from
difficulty.

II. As to the statute of frauds.
If the contract was within the statute, the fat whether it
was in writing or iuot was directly in issue in the first suit.
If the defendant then waived the defence (if this was one)
arising from the contract's being butin parol, as he might,
he should have offered evidence of that fhct on the second
trial. He did not make such offer. None of the bills of exceptions assert that it was not set up in that action. If it had
been, and if it was a defence, the suit could not have been
sustained; which it was completely.
The authorities from Peter v. Compton, reported by Skin-.
ner,* to this day are numerous to show that the case was not
within the statute.
What was this contract? It was one to put a machine on
defendant's boat, to be paid for by a share of the savings of
fuel caused by its use, to be ascertained as soon as the machine was in working order: that share to be paid for, from
time to time, whenever demanded. The contract might
run on to the expiration of the patent, or .it might be terminated the next day. There is nothing from which it can be
inferred that the parties understood it could not be performed
within the year. It would have been completed by the loss
or destruction of the boat at any time during the year, a
matter in terms provided for.
There is a distinction between a performance which shall
complete, and one which may defeat the contract within the
year. If it can be completed within the year (as this one
*

Ptige 853.

590

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

might have been), it is not brought within the statute, by
the fact that it may run on for many years.*
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
When this case, or one of the class, was formerly before
this court,t in which the record of the former recovery wab
in evidence, it was claimed that, without any extrinsic evidence, itconcluded tie defendants from again denying the
existence of the contract, or from disproving any other of
the averments in the first count of the declaration, and it
had been so ruled by the court below.
This court, when the case came up on error, agreed that
the record was properly admitted as evidence of the former
trial between the parties, but held the pleadings, verdict,
and judgment did not furnish the necessary proof to show
that the contract in controversy in the suit then on trial had
been before agitated, and conclusively adjudicated in the
former trial in behalf of the plaintiffs; and that the verdict
had been rendered upon the entire declaration, and without
special reference to the first count.
The record, with the pleadings and verdict, furnished evidence that the same matters might have been litigated on
that trial, and afforded ground for the introduction of extrinsic evidence to show that the same contract had been in
contest before the court, and had been referred to the decision of the jury, but nothing more. For this reason the
judgment was reversed, and a new trial ordered.
Taking this view of the application and effect of the record of the former trial., the plaintiffs introduced in this ease
extrinsic evidence, and have endeavored to prove the necessary facts which, in connection with the record, would lead
to the conclusion that the same contract was in controversy
in the former suit, and had been conclusively adjudged in
their fhvor. But this extrinsic evidence was open to be controverted on the part of the defendants. As the record
See the authorities in support of this proposition, collected in Browne
272, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
on the Statute of Frauds, 2d edition, ch. 13,
t As reported in 24 Howard.

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

591

Opinion of the court.

itself did not furnish evidence of the finding of the existence
or validity of the contract in the former suit, and nence extrinsic proof- was required to this effect, it was of course
competent for the defendants to deny and disprove both, as
ini so doing they did not impeach the record, but only sought
to disprove the evidence introduced by the plaintiffs.
The rejection of this. evideuce,-therefore, offered by the
defendants on the trial, was error. Whether or not the con.
tract, as proved on the former trial, rested in parol or was
in writing, was material. It"in writing, there could be no
•controversy in fact in respect to its terims or stipulations;
and its construction and legal effect belonged to the court
to determine. If it rested in parol, its terms and conditions
depended upon the extrinsic proof, and hence the materiality of the first question put to the witness, as preliminary to
further proof. It was important to settle the terms of the
contract in evidence on the former trial, in order to determine whether it was the same as the one then in controversy,
and, resting in parol, these terms depended very much upon
the testimony in the case.
There is another view in this branch of the case that must
be noticed. As we have seen, the declaration in the former
suit contained four counts, to which the general issue was
pleaded, and a general verdict for the plaintiffs. The first and
fourth counts set up two different special contracts relating
to the same subject-matters, and which constituted the cause
of action between the parties. Now, the extrinsic evidence
furnished on the part of the plaintiffs as to the former trial,
and the grounds of proceeding therein, tended to prove
either count, and was sufficient to have justified the jury in
finding either contract. These contracts, as thus set forth,
were identical, with the exception of the agreement to settle
the proportion of fuel saved by an experiment, which had
been made, and resulted in the saving, by the use of the
cut-off, of three-fourths of'the fuel as used by the old throttle valve. The jury, therefore, might have found in favor
of the plaintiffs on the contract as set forth in the fourth
count, even if they disbelieved the proof. of the agreement

PACKET COMPANY

V.

8ICKLES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as to the mode of settling the proportion of fuel saved.
Many of the jurors called and examined speak of a coiitract between the parties in respect to the use of the Si.klcs
cut-off, but so indefinitely it is impossible to determitie
Whother the testimony related to the one set out in first or
fourth counts, and no attempt was made to distinguish between the one or the other on the trial.
As we understand the rule in respect to the conclusiveness
of the verdict and judgmenin a former trial between the
same parties, when the judgment is used in pleading as a
technical estoppel, or is reIed on by way of evidence as con-,
clusive, per se, it must appear, by the record of the prior suit,
that the particular controversy sought to be concluded was
necessarily tried and determined-that is, if the record of
the former trial shows that the -verdict could not have been
rendered without deciding the particular matter, it will be
considered as having settled that matter as to all future actions between the parties; aqd furthe., in cases where the
record itself does not show that the matter was necessarily
and directly found by the jury, evidence aliunde consistent
with the record may be received to prove the fact; but, even
where it appears from the extrinsic evidence that the matte*r
was properly within the issue controverted in the former
suit, if it be not shown that the verdict and judgment necessarily involved its consideration and determination, it will
not be concluded.*
In view of this doctrine, it is quite clear that the record
of the, former trial, together with the extrinsic proofs, failed
to show that the contract in controversy in the present suit
was necessarily determined in the former in, behalf of the
plaintiffs. Wf'e agree, if the declaration had contained but
the first count, which had set out the contract in controversy
in the present suit, the effect of the judgment would have
been different. The verdict of the jury, then, could not
have taken place without finding the existence and validity
* Wood* v. Jackson, 8 Wendell, 10, 16, 81, 36; Washington, &c., Packet
Co. v. Sickles, 24 Howard, 333, 343, 845; Lawrence v. Hunt, 10 Wendell,
BO; Cowen & Hill's Notes to Phillips's Evidence, Part 2, N. 121.

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY V.

SICKLES.

593

Opinion of the court.

of the contract. But, as we have already shown, the record
and evidence on the former trial are different, and tend to a
different conclusion.
Some of th jurors in the former trial were permitted to
testif as to "the particular ground upon which they found
the verdict. This testimony was not objected to, and therefore is not available as error here. But it is proper to say,
that the secret deliberations of the jury, or grounds of their
proceedings while engaged in making up their verdict, are
not competent or admissible evidence of the issues or finding. The jurors oftentimes, though they may concur in the
result, differ as to the grounds or reasons upon which they
arrive at it.
The evidence should be confined to the points in contro-.
versy on the former trial, to the testimony given by the parties, and to the questions submitted to the jury for their
consideration, and then the record furnishes the only proper
proof of the verdict.*
There is another suggesti6n, also, it may be proper to
make, growing out of the rule, now very general both in
the Federal and State courts, to admit the record of a
former trial as evidence to Conclude a party from agitating
the same matters in a second suit, and that is where the extrinsic proof of the identity of. the cause of action is such
that the court must submit the question to the jury as a
matter of fact; any other matters in defence or. support of
the action, as the case may be, should be admitted on the
trial, under proper instructions. For, if the jury should find
against the conclusiveness of the former trial, then this additional evidence would not only be material,.but constitute
the whole of the proof on which the cause of action or defence must rest. If the extrinsic evidence should be so conclusive that the court could properly hold the record to be
conclusive, the trial would of cdurse be at an end, so far as
*Wood v. Jackson, 8 Wendell, 36 ; Lawrence v. Hunt, 10 Id. 85; Hitchin
v. Campbell, 2 Bfackstone, 827; Saunders on Pleading and Evidence, Pt. L.
260.
VOL. V.

88

PACKET

COMPANY V.

SICKLES.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the matters embraced therein were identical with those in
controversy. But, if not so conclusive, and the question
must be submitted to the jury, then the record and evidence
in respect to the former trial would constitute but one of the
grounds relied on before the jury in support of the cause of
action, or in defence, and be entirely consistent with any
other grounds for the maintenance or defence of the suit in
the possession of the parties. This must be so, for the reason that if the trial should, in the ease contemplated, be
confined to the issue growing out of the former trial, and
the jury should find against its conclusiveness, nothing
would be determined. The former trial, therefore, when
its conclusiveness must be submitted to the jury, can be re.
garded only as a preliminary question, and the nerits, independently of this question, should be heard and tried.
As the ease must go down for another trial, and as the
validity of the contract set out in the declaration may be involved in that trial, it is proper that we should express our
opinion upon it, if, as it was offered to be proved, the contract was not in writing, but rested in parol.
We have referred particularly to the contract in the fore
part of this opinion. The question raised is, whether or not
it is within the statute of frauds, and therefore void. The
law in this district, it is admitted, is a copy of the English
statute on the subject.
The patent had some twelve years to run after the date
of this contract, which was in June, 1844.
The words of the statute are: " That no suit shall be
brought to charge any person upon any agreement that was
not to be performed in one year, unless there was some
memorandum or note in writing of the agreement," &c.
Now, the substance of the contract is, that the defendants
are to pay in mony a certain proportion of the ascertained
value of the fuel saved at stated ifitervals throughout the
period of twel.ve years, if the boat to which the cut-off is
attached should last so long.

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY

V. SICKLES.

595

Opinion of the court.

The statute applies to contracts not wholly to be performed within the year.*
It is insisted, however, that this contract is not within it,
because it may, by the happening of 4 certain event,-the
loss or destruction of the boat,-terminate within the year.
The answer is, that the possibility of defeasance does not
make it the less' a contract not to be performed within the
year.
In Birch v. The Earl of Lirerpool,t a contract for hire of a
coach for five years, for a stipulated price per year, was held
to be within the statute, although determinable by either
party at any time within that period.
The same principle was again held in Dobson and Anolher
v. Espie.t That case was the hiring of a traveller for more
than a year, subject to a determination by three months' notice. Pollock, C. B., in delivering his opinion, stated that
the object of the enactment was to prevent contracts not to
be perfbrmed within the year from being vouched by parol
evidence, when at a future period any question might arise
as to their terms. No doubt, he fhrther observes, formerly
it was the practice to construe not only penal statutes, but
statutes which interfered with the common law, as strictly as
possible; but, in my opinion, that is not the proper course
of proceeding. Alderson, B., observed: " The very circumstance that the contract exceeds the year, brings it within
the statute. If it were not so, contracts for any number of
years might be made by parol, provided they contained a defeasance, which might come into operation before the end of
the first year."
We might refer to many other cases arising upon this statute. They are numerous, and not always consistent, for the
reason, probably, given by Pollock, C. B., that the courts at
first construed the enactment as strictly as possible, as it interfered with the common law. We think the construction
given in the cases referred to is sound, and adopt it. The
Boydell v. Drummond, 11 East, 142; Broadwell v. Getman, 2 Denio, 87,
t" 9 Barnewall & Cresswell, 892.

1 2 Hurlstone & Norman, 81.

PACKET COMPANY V.

SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

result is, that the contract in question is void, not being in
writing. It is a contract not to be performed within tho
year, subject to a defeasance by the happening of a certain
event, which might or might not occur within that time.
All the mischiefs which the statute was intended to remedy
apply with full force to it.
Judgment reversed, the cause remitted, and
VENIRE DE NOVO.

Mr. Justice MILLER, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court just delivered.
The points in the case before us for review are whether
there was such a contract made as that set forth in the first
count of the declaration, and if so,, whether it was valid.
The only evidence of both these propositions offered by
plaintiffs was the record of the former trial, and the. testimony of certain jurors on that trial, tending to show that
their verdict was based on the same contract which is described in the first count of the declaration in the present
suit. If that-testimony did not establish both those propositions, then plaintiffs failed in their action, for'they offered
no other evidence on that issue. If that testimony did show
that the contract on which the verdict in the former suit
was rendered was the one set up in the first count of the
present declaration, then the record established both the
making of that contract and its valid character, for a judgment was rendered on that verdict which is still in full force
and unreversed. If the testimony of the witnesses tended
to show this fact, then it should go to the jury, for its suffliciency to establish the fact was for them and not for the
court. No charge on this subject was asked by defendants,
and none given by the court to which defendants excepted.
The main exception sustained by this court is to the offer
of defendants to prove by a competent witness that the contract proved in the former trial was a parol contract.
Did this testimony have any tend'ency to disprove that of
the witnesses of plaintiffs who testified as to the contract on

Dec. 1866.]

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

597

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

which the former verdict was founded? I am not able to
see it.
The witness did not propose to swear that the terrhs of the
contract proved on the former trial differed from the terms
of the contract counted on in this suit. lie was expected to
state that the only contract proved in the former suit was a
parol contract. None of the witnesses of the plaintiffs said
it was other than a parol contract. It was not pretended that
the contract relied on in the first suit was a written contract.
It is said that if the contract was in parol, it is void as
against the statute of firauds, and that question could not be
concluded by the former judgment.
I think the law is otherwise. In the case of Smith v. Whiting,* the Supreme Court of Massachusetts says: "It is apparent from the pleadings that this very demand has been
once tried and determined; and although the court may
have decided wroqg in rejecting the evidence ii the former
suit, yet this is not the way to remedy the misfortune. Exceptions might have been filed to the opinions of the judge,
or a new trial had upon petition. We must presume that
this very matter has been tried, and it is never permitted to
overrule the judgment of a court having jurisdiction by another action." To the same efiect is the case of Grant v.
Button, in the Supreme Court of New York.t

If the law be, as claimed, that there can be no estoppel as
to matter of law, but only as to matter of fact, what becomes
of the estoppels by judgments rendered on demurrer? The
authorities in favor of estoppels in this class of cases are numerous. The ease of Goodrich v. The City, decided at this
term,J is directly in point. There the judgment of the State
court of Illinois on demurrer, in a former suit between the
same parties, was held a bar, although it was intimated that
if it had been an open question, this court might have differed with the Illinois court in the construction of the law.
All decisions on dmnurrer must necessarily be on questions
of law, for the demurrer admits the facts pleaded and only
* 11 Massachusetts, 445.

See s pra, p. 566, last preceding case

t 14 Johnson, 677.

PACKET COMPANY V. SICKLES.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of Miller, J., dissenting.

raises the questions of law which grow out of those facts.
If the principle contended for were true, there could be no
estoppel by demurrer.
If, then, the jury were satisfied from the record
in the
former case, and from the testimony of the^ witnesses, that'
the terms of the contract on which that verdict was foinded
were the same as the special contract set out in the present
suit, then the verdict and judgment in that case established
the existence and validity of that contract for the purposes
of this suit, and whenever it may be called in question between the same parties in relation to the same transaction.
And the testimony offered, if admitted, would have had no
tendency to disprove either of those propositions, but only
to show that the court erred in its judgment in the first suit.
Again, if I understand the opinion aright, it is said that it
must be made to appear from the record of the former suit,
and the testimony of the witnesses, that the former verdict
was pecessarily founded on the contract set out in this suit.
It seems to me that when this case was last here before,* the
court then stated the proposition much short of this. For
the opinion, after alluding to the indefinite character of the
pleadings in many actions, says: "It was consequently decided that it was not necessary as between parties and privies
that the record should show the question upon which the
right of the plaintiff to recover, or the validity of the defence
depended, for it to operate conclusively; but only that the
same matter in controversy might have been litigated, and
that extrinsic evidence would be admitted to prove that the
particular question was material, and was in fact contested,
and that it was referred to the decision of the jury." The
rule, as I understand it, is that to render such former judgment conclusive it is only necessary to show that the same
matter might have been decided, and actually was decided.
Again, it is said in the opinion that the testimony of the
jurors in the former trial was incompetent to disclose the
grounds of their decision in the former case. I think the
k As

reported in 24 Howard.

Dec. 1866.]

DIE

HARO V. UNITED STATES.

699

Syllabus.

rule in those courts where it is adopted at all, and it is rejected wholly in many, is that a juror cannot be permitted
to impeach his verdict, but that he is never refused to sustain it. And this only applies to proceedings to set aside
that verdict, and not to cases where the question of what
was actually decided may arise in another proceeding.
On the whole, I am of opinion that there was but one
question in the case, and that was whether the former verdict and judgment were based on the same contract counted
on in the present suit, and that the evidence which went to
the jury had a tendency to establish that fact, and the evidence rejected by the court had no tendency to disprove it.

DE

HARe V. UNITED STATES.

1. In 1844, persons in California petitioned the Mexican governor of that
province for a grant of certain described land, situated in the vicinity
of the Mission of San Francisco. The petition was referred to the secretary of state, who reported that the land was unoecupied, but that inasmuch as "common lands" (ejidos) were to be assigned to the said
mission, he was of opinion that in the meanwhile the petitioners might
occupy the land solicited under a provisional license. The governor
"
thereupon made a decree, declaring the petitioners
empowered to occupy provisionally " the land, and directing a proper document to be
issued to them, and a registry made of it. An instrument was accordingly issued to the petitioners, signed by the governor and attested
by the secretary of state, by which the governor, in virtue of the authority vested in him, and in the name of the Mlexican nation, granted
"to them the occupation" of the land, subject to the measurement to
be made of common lands for the establishment of San Francisco, with
conditions against alienation, and for the occupation of the land within
a year, and for forfeiture in case the conditions were not complied with.
On this case:
TIeld, That the decree of the governor constituted only a naked license to
occupy the land provisionally ; and that the instrument issued pursuant
to the decree did not pass any title to or interest in the land; that this
license was a personal privilege of the parties, and upon their death did
not extend to their heirs; that a claim for land, resting upon a license
of this character, is not entitled to confirmation under the -act of Congress of March 3, 1851.

