THE SCIENCE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case

£7000 of the said gentleman." These letters were found on
board the brig.
Caldwell was a passenger on the brig, but was allowed to
leave before any question of his character was made. What
was that character in fact? Was he a rebel enemy or a neutral ?
The tenor of his letter to Lizardi & Co., his proposal that
the specie should be shipped as their property, when seventwelfths of it belonged to himself; and especially the circumstance that he has never made claim in this suit to any
part of it, except through Lizardi & Co., indicates that he
was not a neutral, but an enemy.
On the other hand, there is no positive proof of his enemy
character, though further proof was allowed to the captors.
This evidence, in our judgment, does not warrant condemnation of the specie, but it does, as we think, justify the
capture.
We shall therefore affirm the decree of the District Court,,
restoring the vessel and cargo, but direct that costs and expenses consequent upon the capture, be ratably apportioned
between the brig and the shipment of coin, and that the residue of the cargo be exempted from contribution.
DECREE AND

)IRECTIONS

ACCORDINGLY.

NOTE.

At the same time with the preceding appeal and crossappeal, and by the same counsel, were argued two cases;
one an appeal and cross-appeal, as the preceding, from the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana; the other, an appeal from the same court.
The first case Was that of
THE SCIENCE.

The Science had been captured by the American war steamer
Virginia, on the same day as the Dashing Wave, and the same
decrees were entered' in the District Court in respect to vessel
and cargo, and similar appeals were taken.

Dec. 1866.]

THE VOLANT.

179

Statement of the case.
Air. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, for the captors; Mr.
Vfarvin contra, for the claimants.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The evidence is clear that the vessel and her outward cargo
were neutral property, destined to neutral consignees at Matamoras, and that the cargo had been actually delivered as consigned.
Some of the proof tended to show that a portion of this cargo
consisted of confederate uniform cloth; but there was none
showing destination to enemy territory or immediate enemy
use.

There was, therefore, nothing in the character of the vessel
or of the outward cargo which warrants condemnation.
At the time of capture, the bark had the whole or a great
part of her homeward cargo on board. It consisted of cotton
and a small quantity of copper. The captain had not signed
bills of lading, and, upon his preparatory examination, assigned
this circumstance as a reason for not being able to give the
names of the shippers at Matamoras or of the consignees at
Liverpool. The presumption, arising upon the facts proved, is
that it was Peutral property, which must be restored.
The position of the Science, when her cargo was put on board,
and when she was captured, is left in doubt by the depositions
of the master and mate; but the testimony of two officers of
the Virginia, read as further proof, is explicit that she was in
Texan waters,* and no excuse is offered for being there.
The principles just declared in the case of the Dashing Wave
require, therefore, the affirmation of both decrees of the District
Court.
AND THIS IS ORDERED.

The second case was that of
THi

VOLANT.

THE brig Volant had been captured, near the mouth of the
Rio Grande, on the 5th of November, 1863, by the United States
* See chart,

mutra, p. 173.-Rzp.

