Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY.

481

Syllabus.

ords and briefs of lfr. Riddle, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
Cooley, contra.
On the following 7th of May the CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court, that the cases resembled, in all
essential features, cases already decided at this term, which presented the question of the constitutionality of State laws prohibiting, restraining, or taxing the business of selling liquors
under the internal revenue licenses of the United States; that
[he brief of the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error calling
upon the court to review its decisions affirming the validity of
those laws, the court had done so, and was satisfied with the
conclusions already announced.
The several judgments of the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa were therefore
AFFIRMED.

THE EDDY.
1. Contracts of affreightinent are maritime contracts over which the courts
of admiralty have jurisdiction. Either party may enforce his lien by a
proceeding in rem in the District Court.
2. In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, the shipowner has a lien
upon the cargo for the freight,. and may retain the goods after the arrival of the ship at the port of destination until the payment is made.
The master cannot, however, detain the goods on board the vessel. He
mut deliver them.
3. An actual discharge of the goods at the warehouse of the consignee is not
required to constitute delivery. It is enough that the master discharge
the goods upon the wharf, giving due and reasonable notice to the consignee of the fact.
4. Where the goods, after being so discharged and separated into their different consignments, are not accepted by the consignee or owner, the
carrier discharges himself from liability on his contract of affreightments by storing them ir a place of safety and notifying to the consignee or owner that they are so stored, subject to the lien of the ship
for the freight and charges.
6. A frequent and even general but not at all universal practice in a particular port, of shipowners to allow goods brought on their vessels to-be
transported to the warehouse of the consignee and there inspected before
freight is paid, is not such a "custom" as will displace the ordinary
maritime right to demand freight on the delivery of the goods on the
wharf.
YOL. V.
81

482

THIE EDDY.

[Sup, Ct.

Statement of the case.
6. Or. a libel by the consignee of goods against a vessel for non-delivery of
the saie--the defence being that the goods were subject to the lien of
the vessel for freight and that the libellants improperly refused to pay
it-any supposed misconduct of a bailee of the goods, not b~bre the
court, with whom the goods had been stored on the refusal of the con-

signee to pay freight and take them away, is a question not involved in
the pleadings. And if on such a state of pleadings the defendants prove
their defence, they are entitled to a decree in their favor irrespective of

any such supposed misconduct of the bailee.

EIRROR to the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina; the case being thus:
On the 25th March, 1854, the master of the schooner Mary
Eddy, then at New Orleans, received on board his vessel 102
hogsheads of sugar and 21 of syrup, to be earried by sea to
Charleston, South Carolina, and there delivered to Mordecai
& Co., merchants of that place. The bill of lading contained
the usual clause as to the payment of freight. The vessel
reached Charleston safely on the 31st of March, and the
master gave notice to Mordecai & Co. of her arrival and of
the sugar and syrup on board for them; offering to deliver
them on the payment of the freight.
Owing to some misunderstanding between the parties
on the occasion of a former shipment, where, after payment of the freight, a part of the cargo had been discovered
to be damaged, Mordecai & Co. were not willing to pay the
freight, unless the sugars and syrups were all delivered
and in. thteir store, and after inspection by them thiere, were
f6und not to have suffered injury in the voyage. They
alleged that, by the usage of the port of Charleston, they
had a right to have them so stored and so to examine them,
before they could be called on to pay the freight. The master did not agree with them in this view of their rights;
conceiving that he had a right to be paid his freight "on the
wharf," when thle sugars were put there, and to retain possession until he was paid. Conference and some partial understandings were had between the parties; and under these
all the syrup, with three hogsheads of the sugar, were taken
to the storehouse of Mordecai & Co. They declining, however, to pay freight on the parts as thus distributively in

Dec. 1866.]

Tim,

EDDY.

Statement of the case.

their possession, but insisting upon having the whole in
their storehouse first, the master, who was now unlading
the sugars, and had a large part of it on the wharf,-after 2
o'clock on the afternoon of the 4th of April,-gave them
notice that the sugars (some of the hogsheads containing
which had been more or less compressed or staved in on
the voyage, and needed to be coopered) were now in good
order; but that to avoid difficulty in collecting the freight
he requested them to pay the amount as by the bill of lading; adding, that the sugars "will not be delivered without
settling the amount due." Ile concluded:
"Should you not accede to the above, and settle the matter,
the sugars will remain on the wharf until sunset, and then be
stored at your expense and risk."
Mordecai & Co. replied:
"We are prepared to give you satisfactory security for your
freight-money, to be paid to you in accordance with the usages of
this port, and upon your delivery of our property in compliance
with your contract. If you refuse to do so we shall hold you
responsible for all damages. We would add, that we are in:
formed that there are a large number of hogsheads of sugar on
the wharf. A notice of their being landed, at this late hour,
will not give us time to dray them away and store them; and
therefore we hold you responsible for any damage to those that
are landed."
The larger part of the 99 hogshea'ds of sugar remained on
the wharf until sundown, and were then stored by the master in the storehouse of one Brown. A few yet in the ship
were landed and stored on the next day. No agreement as
to the rate of storage was made. On the evening of this
same day (4th April) Messrs. Brown & Porter, the attorneys-at-law of Mordecai & Co., sent a note as follows to the
master:
"We are instructed by Messrs. Mordecai & Co. to inform you
that they consider their whole consignment of sugar-that ou

484

THE EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the wharf as well as that in the ship-at the risk of the schoonet
Mary Eddy and her owners; and that they are ready to pay you
the freight upon your delivery to them of the entire consignment
in accordance with the bill of lading; that from your own ad,mission and conduct, they hav6 reason to believe that part of
the consignment is not in the condition you received it; and
they have further reason to believe that this damage is not ineluded within the dangers and accidents of the seas and navigation; that they are willing to give any security for the
freight, but will not consent to pay the freight as you have demanded in your letter, when a larger portion of the consignment is in your possession, under circumstances which authorize them to beliee that they tnay sustain considerable damage.
We are also instructed to inform you that unless this matter'is
adjusted to their satisfaction by 10 o'clock to-morrow, they will
proceed to libel the vessel."
The master did nothing more in the way of delivery of
the hogsheads. He himself averred, in an answer subsequently made in the case, "that the sugars were examined
next day in store and on the wharf by the agents of Mordecai & Co.; but that no demand was made nor any freight
tendered."
At the time the sugars were thus stored,-4th of April,
1854,-they were worth $6901. The claim for freight was
$641. On the 21st November, 1855, Brown, the storehousekeeper, without the assent of Mordecai & Co., sold, to satisfy
his account of storage, 51 hogsheads of the 99 stored. From
the proceeds, $2314, he deducted his claim, $1919, for storage, at the rate of 25 ceits a hogshead per week, and paid the
balance to the schooner's agent. The remaining hogsheads
were detained till Jaiuary, 1856, when they likewise were
sold by order of the sclooner's agent, who paid $204 out of
the proceeds for storage, at the former rate, reserved $759 for
freight and interest, and tendered $2400 for the consignment
of the sugars.
When Brown, in whose stores the sugars bad been placed,
was about to sell to pay his storage, Mordecai & Co. applied
to him to permil them, with some two gentlemen, to exam-

Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY.
Statement of the case.

ine into their condition. Brown acceded to their wish, but
subsequently informed Mordecai & Co. that the agents of
the schooner objected to an ex parle survey, and directed
him to refer Mordecai & Co. to them or th'eir counsel. Mordecai & Co. then addressed, through their proctors, the same
request. to the proctor of the master of the vessel, and reply
was made that before it could be consented to it was but fair
that they should be advised of its purpose and of the use that
might be intended tc be made of it hereafter. The terms
were not acceded to, and the inspection was not allowed.
Soon after the sugars were stored Mordecai & Co. informed
the agents of the master that storage could be procured by
them at the rate of 25 cents per hogshead per month, and they
replied that the owner of the store in which it was would
make the rate agreeable to Mordecai & Co. Subsequently,
when the owner of the store demanded storage at the rate
of 25 cents per week f6r each hogshead, instead of 25 cents
per month, there was no objection on the part of the agents.
Witnesses testified that 25 cents per week was an excessive
charge; though the " wharf rates" allowed 23 cents where
there was no agreement.
A libel having been filed on the 5th of March, testimony
was taken as to the cnstom of the port of Charleston as to
place of payment of the freight.
Two witnesses were examined in behalf of Mordecai & Co.;
one of them, a merchant in the habit of receiving consignments, stated, that with his house it had always been customary to deliver the goods on the wharf, and then to call for
the payment of the freight at a reasonable time after; that
this was the general practice with merchants; that Mordecai & Co. were merchants of very good reputation; that he
himself had never paid freight on the wharf, and if any man
vere to ask him to do so, he would take it as an insult. On
cross-examination he added, that he thought that by commercial law the master would have a right to demand freight
on the wharf, if the party were doubtful as regarded their
ability to pay, or if he expected to receive any trouble in the
collection of the freight; that as to the, right to demand

486

TiE EDDY.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

freight on the wharf, he thought it a question of law; that
as to the fact, he had never heard of a ease in which it was
done. The other witness stated, that lie thought it was the
prevailing practice to discharge and collect freight afterwards; but that though such was his practice, he would, if
he ever anticipated difficulty in the collection of freight, have
stored the cargo in the name of the consignee, subject to his
order and the payment of freight. In opposition to this testimony, fbur witnesses were examined in behalf of the shipowners. One stated that he had known instances where refusals were made to deliver the cargo without payment of
freight. Another, that he knew of instances where consignments were not delivered without payment of freight on the
wharf; that it was his custom so to collect it, if he doubted
the solvency of the house, or feared difficulty in the collection of it. A third, that in the case of small bills, to save
the trouble of collecting the freight, he had ordered it to
be paid on the wharf before delivering the cargo ; and the
fourth, that in one instance, he was refused a consignment
unless he paid freight on the wharf, but that the general
usage was otherwise-the practice being to call for the freight
at any time belbre the vessel was ready for sea.
Upon this case the District Judge in whose court the libel
was filed-considering that no sufficient custom had been
proved-concluded his opinion as follows:
"It is evident that on both sides there was a proclivity to an
extreme estimate of their rights, from the occurrence previously
of some matter between them which was unpleasant. In the
detention of the cargo to secure the lken of his freight the master
exercised a lawful right. In continuing the exercise of that d6tention upon property undergoing deterioration, without submitting the property to such control as could rightfully dispose
of it, if he was not satisfied that under the circumstances he
could not do so himself, he acted wrongfully and is liable to the
consequences. And all the evidence which is before me in relation to the conduct of the master while detaining the property
supports me in the conclusion that the respondent should be
made liable. I pass over the fact that with property capable

Dec. 1866.j

TiiE EDDY.
Statement of the case.

of division, and of which he had the right to retain a part for
the freight of the whole, he insisted on retaining the whole;
and that in so doing he retained an amount ten times greater
than his claim, and subjected the owner to ten times the expense
that was necessary. I pass this over, because in speaking of the
power to retain, the language is general. But when the master
in the exercise of his right did detain, it was nevertheless the
property of another which he had in his possession. That possession he transfers to another-the owner of the store in which
be placed the property. And it was there placed subject to the
order of the master or his agent. There was no recognition of
any other owner, nor discretion allowed the storekeeper to deliver the property to any person but the master or his agent.
Now, it is quite clear that the right which' the carrier was entitled to was simply that of detention until freight was paid.
And the importance of the mode in which the goods were stored
is only made to appear from subsequent events.
"It is obvious that it was forgotten that when the master retains the control of the cargo to secure his lien for freight, he is
regarded as ihe agent of the owners of the cargo. And the conduct of the master in the management of the property in this
case was inconsistent with the duties which the law in such cases
devolves upon him.
"Let a report set out the value of the property at the port
of delivery ; from this amount let the freight be deducted ; and
let a farther deduction be made for the storage of the goods for
sixty days; which, under the circumstances of the case, I consider a reasonable time for the master to make application for
the aid of the court, in making his lien available; the balance
then remaining with interest from that date, will be the amount"
due the libellants. As to the costs, I will divide them in the
following manner. I do not sustain the libellants in what they
did previous to the storage of th6goods and the filing of their
libel. I do not sustain what the respondents have subsequently
done."

A decree, after a report made by a master on this basis,
was entered accordingly.
On appeal to the Circuit Court this decree was reversed,
and it was ordered that there be allowed to Brown, 'orthe
storage of the merchandise, compensation according to a re-

THtE EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the lien for freight.

port of a master, which had been made under a reference of
the Circuit Court, and which allowed 40 cents a hogshead
per month. That the residue of the fund in the hands of
Brown, should be paid into court. That the libellants should
be at liberty at any time to apply to take it out, and that,
subject to such leave, after the fund was paid into court, the
libel should be dismissed with costs.
It appearing afterwards, however, on a return to this rule,
that the sugars never were in the custody of the Circuit
Court, the decree of the District Court Was in all things reversed, and the libel dismissed with costs.
Appeal was now taken by Mordecai & Co., to this court.
Mr. Carlisle,for the appellants:
The evidence shows that the goods had been more or less
damaged on the voyage; and though the libellants may have
originally acted on the assumption that they had the right to
the possession of the goods before the freight was demandable, yet subsequently, upon consultation with their counsel,
Brown & Porter, it is plain that they receded from this.
The letter of the 4th April, which they, through those counsel, addressed to the master, states that "they are ready to
pay you the freight upon your delivery to them of the entire
consignment, in accordance with the bill of lading." No reply
was ever made to this offer.
We concede the right of lien for freight upon the cargo;
but we submit that the consignee has the right to inspect
,the whole consignment before he can be called upon to pay
the freight, and that the master is not entitled to detain the
goods in any such way as to deprive the consignee of this
opportunity of inspecting them, and of ascertaining whether
they have been injured by the master's fhult.
This was the rule, under the Empire, of the Ordinance,
and is under the Code of Commerce. In England the same
law obtains.* and the decisions in this country are to the
same effect. " The shipper," says Story, J.,t " has the right,'
Abbott on Shipping, 285.
" Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumner, 601.

Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY.

489

Argument against the lien for freight.

as it should seem by the maritime law, to insist upon exarmining the goods after they are delivered, in order to ascertain whether they are damaged or not, before he makes
himself liable, at all events, for the freight."
We admit, too, that where the transportation isby vessel,
and the consignee ref@ses to receive, the carrier may discharge
himself from further responsibility by placing the goods in
store with some responsible person, for and on account of the
owner. But in such case, the storehouse-keeper becomes the
agent or bailee of the owner of the property.* Here the property was stored by the captain, and subject to his order alone.
The appellants were not even allowed to inspect the same,
though two applications were made for that purpose. The
goods were stored without even an agreement for the storage.
In consequence of this gross negligence, the enormous charge
of one dollar per month was levied on the sugars, which consumed the greater part of their value, though the agents of
the master had been informed by letter that storage could
be procured at 25 cents, and the report of a master shows
that but 40 cents should be allowed.
The ease then stands thus: The master having property
in his possession ten times greater than his own demand,
has so dealt with it as to render it almost valueless to the
owner, He has acted on the assumption that his lien gave
him the right to sell, and made two sales against the protest
of the owner.
Whether by the law he had this right of sale need not,
therefore, be inquired into. iHe clearly had the right to
apply to the court for the purpose of enforcing his lien for
the freight. But when is this to be done ? Has the master
the right to detain the goods for an indefinite time? We
assert that when he assumes to keep possession and control,
he must act as a prudent administrator, and in good faith to
the owner of the goods. He could have sold the goods as
soon as the parties refused to pay the freight, or procured an
order of the court, if he preferred it, and thus secured his
* Fisk v. Newton, 1 Denio, 45.

TiiL EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

own rights and protected the interests of the owner. If he
had applied to the court, the property would have been delivered to the claimant upon a proper stipulation, preserving
the rights of the master. If the consignee had been dead or
absent, the case might be more palpable, but the rules of
law applicable would be the sarte. The reasons urged on
this point by the district judge on decreeing for the libellants should be conclusive of the rights of the parties in this
litigation.
No opposite counsel appeared.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Substance of the allegations of the libel setting forth the
cause of action was, that certain merchants at New Orleans,
on the 25th day of March, 1854, shipped on board the
schooner Mary Eddy, then lying in that port, one hundred
and two hogsheads of sugars, for which the master gave a
bill of lading to the shippers, and that be contracted to
transport the sugars from that port to the port of Charleston, and there to deliver the same to the appellants, in good
order and condition, saving and excepting only the dangers
and accidents of the seas and navigation ; and the libellants
averred that the vessel departed on the voyage, and that the
master had neglected and refused to deliver the sugars.
Answer of the respondents admitted the reception of the
sugars, the contract of aflttightment as set forth in the bill
of lading, and the arrival of the schooner at the port of destination with the sugars on board, in good order and condition.
Principal defence set up in the answer was that the contract to deliver the sugars was subject to the lien of the respondents for the payment of the freight, as stipulated in the
bill of lading; and they averred that the vessel proceeded on
her voyage, and arrived safely at the port of destination with
the sugars on board, in good order and condition, and that
the master gave immediate notice of those facts to the con-

Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY,

491

Opinion of the court.

signees, and offbred to deliver the sugars to them, according
to the bill of lading, but they utterly neglected and refused
to pay the freight.
First appeal of the libellants to this court was dismissed,
it appearing that neither this court nor the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction of the case, as no final decree had been entered in the District Court where the libel was filed.* Such
being the fact, this court dismissed the appeal, and remanded
the cause to the District Court, in the same condition in
which it was before the appeal was taken to the Circuit
Court, in order that the District Court might proceed with
the case to a final decree. Pursuant to the mandate of this
court, the District Court completed the hearing, and still
being of the opinion that the claim of the libellants was well
founded, entered a final decree in their favor; but the Circuit Court reversed the decree, on the appeal of the respondents, and the libellants appealed to this court.
1. The record shows that the controversy in this case, in
its origin, grew out of a difference of opinion between the
parties as to the respective rights and duties of the master
of the schooner, as a carrier by water, and the shipper of the
cargo, in respect to the delivery of the goods, or rather of
the shipowners and the consignees and owners of the cargo,
under the usual bill of lading stipulating for the delivery of
the goods upon payment of the freight. Appellants, as the
consignees and owners of the cargo, conceded that the
owners of the schooner had a lien fbr the freight, hut insisted that they, as consignees and owners of the cargo, had
a right to inspect the sugars befo e paying the freight, as
stipulated in the bill of lading, and that it was the duty of
the master, under the usages of the port, to discharge the
entire consignment before exacting the payment of freight,
and to allow them, as the consignees, to take possession of
the sugars, and transport the same to their store, in order
that they might be enabled satisfactorily to make such ex.
ainination and inspection.
*Mordecai

et al. v. Lindsay et al., 19 Howard, 199.

THE EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Acting for the owners of the vessel, the master admitted
that it was his duty to discharge the entire consignment, and
to permit the same to be inspected by the consignees, but he
denied that it was his duty to allow the sugars to be transported to the warehouse of the consignees until the freight
was paid. On the contrary, he insisted that it was his right
to retain possession of the sugars as the means of preserving
the lien of the vessel, to which the sugars were subject for
the payment of the freight. When the agent of the libellants first went to the vessel, shortly after her arrival, and
asked for the sugars, he was duly notified by the master that
the lien of the vessel for the payment of the freight would.
iiot be waived. Subsequently, one of the libellants went on
board and had some conversation with the master in respect
to the payment of the freight and the delivery of the consignment. They came to an understanding that all the
sugars which were in good order should be sent to the store
of the libellants, but that the freight on all so sent should be
paid on the wharf.
The whole consignment consisted of one hundred and two
hogsheads of sugars and twenty-one barrels of syrup. Libellants' clerk sent the twenty-one barrels of syrup and three
hogsheads of the sugar to their store, under that arrangement, but the libellants refused to furnish the money to pay
the freight, and the master declined to permit any more to
be sent, except upon payment of the freight, as it had been
understood in that arrangement. Finding that they were
unable to agree, the master notified the libellants that lie
should exact the payment-of freight on the wharf; and they,
in reply, notified the master that they should hold him responsible for any injury the sugars should receive on the
wharf. Correspondence took place between the parties in
respect to the delivery of the sugars and the payment of the
freight- which is exhibited in the record, together with the
testimony of various witnesses who were examined upon the
subject.
The vessel arrived at Charleston on the last day of March,
1854, and the cargo was discharg9d on the third and fourth

Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY.

493

Opinion of the court.

days of April following. Notice was given to the libellants
early in the afternoon of the latter day, to the effect that the
consignment was ready to be delivered in good order and
condition, on payment of freight, but that if they refused to
pay freight, as stipulated in the bill of lading, the sugars
would remain on the wharf until sunset, and would then be
stored at their expense and risk. Their response was that
they would give security for the freight to be paid, in accordance with the usages of the port, upon the delivery of
the consignment. They also objected to the notice as too
late in the day to enable them to transport the sugars from
the wharf and store them in their warehouse.
Throughout the correspondence it is obvious that the
libellants denied all obligation to pay the freight until the
entire consignment was discharged and delivered without
qualification, s(i that they could store the goods and inspect
them in their own warehouse. Refusing to accede to those
terms the master discharged the sugars, and after waiting a
reasonable time stored them, and notified the libellants that
they were stored at their risk and cost, to be delivered to
them upon payment of freight and charges. Proofs also
show that the libellants examined the sugars the next dayboth those on the wharf and those in store-but no demand
was made nor was any freight tendered.
2. Undoubtedly the shipowner has a lien upon the cargo
for the freight, and consequently may retain the goods after
the arrival of the ship at the port of destination until the
payment is made, unless there is some stipulation in the
charter-party or bill of lading inconsistent with such right
of retention and which displaces the lien.* Text-writers
usually state the rule as follows: Le bald est obliyg a la marchandise el la marchandiseau batel.t
Unquestionably the general rule of law is well expressed
in that maxim, but it is subject to an important exception
Bags of Linseed, 1 Black, 112.
t Cleirac, p. 697; Abbott on Shipping, 8th ed., p. 248; Maude & Pollock
on Shipping, 254.

Tim :EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as applied to the cargo, that the lien may be displaced by an
inconsistent and irreconcilable provision in the charter-party
or bill of lading, making it the duty of the master to deliver
the goods unconditionally before tie consignee is required
to pay the freight. Saving that exception, the rule is uni-.
versal that the ship and freight are boud to the merchandise
and the merchandise to tle ship. Shipowner contracts for
the safe custody, due transport, and right delivery of the
merchandise, and the shipper, consignee, or owner of the
cargo contracts to pay the freight and charges. These are
reciprocal duties, and the law creates reciprocal liens for
their enforcement, but the lien of the shipowner may be
displaced, as before explained, or it may be waived.
Such a lien-that is, the lien of the shipowner-is not
"the privileged claim" of the civil law, but it arises merely
from the right of the shipowner to retain the possession of
the goods until the freight is paid, and therefore it is lost by
an unconditional delivery of the goods to the consignee.
Subject to this explanation, the maxim that the ship is bound
to the merchandise and the merchandise t6 the ship for the
performance of all the obligations created by the contract
of affreightment, is the settled rule in all the Federal courts.*
3. Contracts of affreightment, notwithstanding it is held
that the lien of the shipowner is nothing more than the
right to withhold the goods, and is inseparably associated
with his possession, are regarded by the courts of the United
States as maritime contracts over which the courts of admiralty have jurisdiction, and consequently that either party
in a proper case may enforce his lien by a proceeding in rem
in the District Court. Where the ship is in fault, the usual
remedy of the consignee is by the proceeding in rem; but
where the shipper, owner, or consignee of the cargo is in
Iault, the shipowner usually finds an adequate remedy by
retaining the goods until the freight and charges are paid.
His right to do so is beyond doubt, but he cannot detain the
goods on board the ship until the freight is paid, as the conDupont v. Vance, 19 Howard, 168.

Dec. 1866.]

THE

EDDY.

495

Opinion of the court.

signee or owner of the cargo would then have no opportunity of examining their condition. Practice in England is
to send such goods as are not required to be landed at any
particular dock to a public wharf, and order the wharfinger
not to part with them till the freight and other charges are
paid; and it is held that in such cases the lien of the master
continues, as the goods remain in his constructive possession.*
4. Delivery on the wharf in the case of goods transported
by ships is sufficient under our law, if due notice be given
to the consignees and the different consignments be properly
separated, so as to be open to inspection and conveniently
accessible to their respective owners.t Where the contract
is to carry by water from port to port an actual delivery of
the goods into the possession of the owner or consignee, or
at his warehouse, is not required in order to discharge the
carrier from his liability. He may deliver them on the
wharf; but to constitute a valid 'delivery there the master
should give due and reasonable notice to the consignee, so
as to afibrd him a fair opportunity to remove the goods, or
put them under proper care and custody. When the goods,
after being so discharged and the different consignments
properly separated, are not accepted by the consignee or
owner of the cargo, the carrier should not leave them exposed on the wharf, but should store them in a place of
safety, notifying the consignee or owner that they are so
stored, subject to the lien of the ship for the freight and
charges, and when lie has done so he is no longer liable on
his contract of affreightment.T
5. Parties may agree that the goods shall be deposited in
the warehouse of the consignee or owner, and that the
* Chitty & Temple-on Carriers, 222; Ward v. Felton, 1 East, 512; Machlachlan on Shipping, 369.

t 2 Parson on Contracts, 5th ed. 195; Ship Middlesex, 21 Law Rep. 14.
. Richardson et al. v. Goddard et al., 23 Howard, 89; 1 Parson's Maritime

Law, 153; Machlachlan on Shipping, 367; Hyde v. T. & M. Nav. Co., 5
rerm, 389; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 5th ed. 191; Brittan v. Barnaby, 21
Howard, 632.

TIHE EDDY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

transfer and deposit shall not be regarded as a waiver of the
lien, and where they so agree the courts of admiralty will
uphold the agreement and support the lien; but there was
no agreement in this case. The appellants refused to pay
the freight, and'the master declined to part with the possession of the goods. He discharged the cargo upon the wharf,
gave due notice to the consignees, and they refused to pay
the freight, claiming that they had a right, by the usages of
the port, to remove the goods to their store for inspection,
without paying freight. They examined witnesses upon that
subject, but it is sufficient to say that they failed to prove
any such usage. Relying on proof of such a usage, they
refused to accept the goods, and the master stored them in
a place of safety and gave due notice to the libellants.
6. Misinterpreting the mandate of this court, the district
judge came to the conclusion that the interlocutory decree
entered in the cause before the former appeal could be supported by proof of the subsequent misconduct of the bailee
of the goods, who sold certain portions of them to pay the
charges for storage. All we think it necessary to say upon
the subject is, that none of those questions are involved
in the pleadings in this record. Present libel was in rem
against the vessel for the non-delivery of the consignment
of the libellants. Respondents appeared and set up the
defence that the goods were subject to the lien of the vessel
for the freight, and that the libellants, without just cause or
excuse, refused to pay the freight, and they fully proved
their defence. Having proved their defence, they were
entitled to a decree in their favor, wholly irrespective of
any subsequent misconduct of the bailee of the goods, who
was not before the court.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

