Dec. 1866.]

SHELTON

V.

THE COLLECTOR.

113

Statement of the case.

with reference to the Atlantic ports, goods which are the
growth or product of Persia or China, are from countries
beyond the Cape of Good Hope, and are thus chargeable
with duty, but with reference to the Pacific ports, they are
from countries this side of the Cape, and thus not within the
terms of the statute.
The answer to the objection is obvious and conclusive.
The terms "beyond the Cape of Good Hope" are employed
as descriptive of the locality of certain countries, not their
relative position with respect to ports of import. They are
used to avoid the necessity of enumerating the countries
whichf lie east of the Cape. "Beyond the Cape" and "east
of the Cape" are often used in the acts of Congress as
equivalent expressions. They indicate the locality of certain countries with reference to the position of the' lawmakers at the national capital. In a similar manner would
the words "beyond the Mississippi" be construed if found
in an act of Congress. They would be held to refer to the
country west of the Mississippi, which, with reference to the
.egislators at Washington, would lie beyond that river.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

SHELTON V. THE COLLECTOR.
1. Where merchandise receives dalhages during a voyage, proof to ascertain the damage must be lodged at the custom-house of the port where
the goods are landed within ten days after the landing.
2. The damages must be ascertained before the goods are entered.

T'His case, which was brought up by a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts, was submitted to the court below upon an agreed
statement of facts, substantially as follows:
Shelton & Co.-the plaintifi in error, who were also the
plaintiffs below-imported a quantity of molasses from the
islai.d of Cuba into the port of Boston. At the time of the
VOL. V.
8

114

SHELTON v. Tim COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the ease.

exportation from Cuba it was sound and sweet.
Upon
reaching Bostomi it was soured, having become so during
the voyage. There was a material difference between the
value of sweet and sour molasses both at the port of exportation and the port of importation,-sweet molasses being of'
the greater value. The molasses in question was entered at
the fall value of sweet molasses. The plaintiffs demanded to
nave the damage appraised and allowed in the computation
3f duties. The defendant caused the damage to be appraised,
but afterwards (under instructions from the Secretary
of the
Treasury) refused to allow them, and duties were exacted V
the defendant, and paid by the plaintiffs, under protest, upon the
full 'alue of the molasses.
It was agreed that if the court should be of opinion that
damage by souring during the voyage of importation was a
damage on the voyage, within the meaning of the provision
of the fifty-second section of the act of March 2d, 1799, judgment was to be entered for the plaintifls-otherwise for the
defendant.
Upon this agreement the court below gave judgment foi
the defendant, and this writ of error was prosecuted to reverse it.
The fifty-second section of the act of March 2d, 1799,
above-mentioned, enacts:
"That all goods, wares, and merchandise of which entry shall
have been made incomplete, or which shall have received damage
during the voyage, to be ascertained by the proper officers of the
port-or district in which the said goods, &c., shall arrive, shall
be conveyed to some warehouse or storehouse to be designated
by the collector, in the parcels or packages containing the
same, there to remain at the expense and risk of the owner or
consignee, under the care of some proper officer, until the pgrticulars, cost, or value, as the case may require, shall have been
ascertained: Provided, That no allowance for the damage on
any goods, wares, and merchandise that have been entered, and
on which the duties have been paid or secured to be paid, and
for which a permit has been granted to the owner or consignee
thereof, shall be made, unless proof to ascertain such damage

Dec. 1866.]

SHELTON V.

115

THE COLLECTOR.

Argument for the United States.

shall be lodged in the custom-house, &c., within ten days after the
landing of such merchandise."*
As having a certain bearing on the subject, reference may
be made also to the twenty-first section of an act of March
1, 1823, as follows:t
"That before any goods, wares, or merchandise which may be
taken from any wreck shall be admitted to an entry, the same
shall be appraised in the maner prescribed in the sixteenth section of this act; and the same proceedings shall be ordered and executed in all cases where a reduction of duties shall be claimed on account of damage which any goods, wares, or merchandiseshall have
sustained in the course of the voyage; and in all cases where the
owner, importer, consignee, or agent shall be dissatisfied with
such appraisement, he shall be entitled to the privileges provided in the eighteenth section of this act."
The manner of appraisement referred to as provided in
the sixteenth section; and the privileges provided in the
eighteenth section, were not material to the issue in this
case.
Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and Mr. Ashlon, Assistant A. G., for the
collector:
Goods which have been completely entered, under what
ever circumstances such entry has been made, are not entitled to any allowance for damage, from whatever cause, unless proof of such damage has been furnished within ten
days after the landing of the goods, and other action had.
Without a statutory exception, the general law regulating
entries of goods and assessments of duties would of course
disallow such damage; and the exception claimed in this
suit withholds, by express terms, its benefits whrre "proof
to ascertain such damage" has not been "lodged in the custom-house" of the port " within ten days after the landing
of such merchandise."
Here is a condition precedent,
which the case, by its omission to mention it, shows has not
4

Slat. at Large, pp. 665, 666.

t Id. 786.

SHtELTON V.

THE

COLLECTOR.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

been fulfilled by the importer. The entry was regular and
complete, and it follows that the entire fifty-second sectioE
is inapplicable, except as by its proviso it prohibits the al
lowance claimed.
But any provision of the act of 1799 favorable to the plaintiffs was repealed by the act of 1823.
The act of 1823 declares that " no entry shall be admitted until
after appraisementof goods taken from any wreck; and the
same proceedings'shall be ordered and executed in all cases
where a reduction of duties shall be claimed on account of damage
which any goods, wares, or merchandise shall have sustained in the
course of the voyage."
If, therefore, under section fifty-two of the act of 1799 the
importers could have claimed the benefit of any appraisement of damages to their goods, "sustained in the course of
the voyage," after they had procured them to be entered at
the custom-house (with or without the lodgement therein of
proof within ten days after landing), under the terms of this
section, it is manifest they could not have the benefit of such
an appraisement now, since the act of 1823 thus expressly
prohibits the admission of the very entry they made. Therefore, if the importers chose to forego this prohibition of entry,
by entering the goods according to invoice, they must sub..
mit to the consequences of their voluntary action.
Whenever, in fact, the invoice has been the basis of an
entry at the custom-house, complete or incomplete, or whenever an entry has been made with a specific valuation, theire
is no power to reduce the corresponding assessment of
duties.
As an importer is not, in any case of damage in the course
of the voyage, imperfect data-, wreck' &c., obliged to make
entry before appraisement, under the statutes cited, the
reason of the rule binding him to abide his entry is palpable.
No opposite counsel appeared.
Mr.Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The question presented for our determination in this case

Dec. 1866.]

SHELTON V. THE COLLECTOR.
Opinion of the court.

is a purely statutory one, and it must be decided by the light
of the law of Congress, which relate to the subject.
The 52d section of the act of March 2d, 1799, declares
that goods, of which an incomplete entry has been made, or
which shall have received damage during the voyage, to be
ascertained by the proper officers, shall be conveyed in the
parcels or packages containing them to some warehouse, to
be designated by the collector, and that they shall remain
thei'e at the expense of the owner or consignee, under the
care of some proper officer, " until the particulars, cost, or
value, as the case may be, shall be ascertained." The proceedings touching the appraisement, in case of damage
during the voyage, are particularly prescribed. The proper
deduction is also provided for, whether the goods are charge
able with a duty ad valorem, or a specific duty. The section
concludes with a proviso, that no allowance shall be made
for the damage on any goods and merchandise which have
been entered, and on which the duties have been paid, or
secured to be paid, and for which a permit has been granted,
unless the proof to ascertain the damage shall be lodged in
the custom-house within ten days after the merchandise was
landed.
The act of the 3d of March, 1823, provides that, before
goods taken from a wreck shall be entered, they shall be
appraised in the manner prescribed by the 16th section of
the act, and that the same proceedings shall be had, in all
cases, where a reduction of duties is claimed on account of
the damage which any goods may have sustained in the
course of a voyage.
It provides further, that in all cases, when the owner or
consignee is dissatisfied with the appraisement, he may avail
himself of the privileges given by the 18th section of the
act.
It is not necessary to advei't to the 16th an4 18th sections
more particularly. They embrace details in nowise material to the question under consideration. In so far as they
are inconsistent with the mode of ascertaining the damage
to the goods prescribed by the act of 1799, the former act

SHELTON V. THE COLLECTOR.

I'sup.
L

Ut

Opinion of the court.

must yield to the latter, and it is to that extent repealed,
But this in no wise affects the limitation of the time, fixed
by the act of 1799, within which the proof of the damage
must be lodged in the custom-house.
The plaintiffs were clearly nbt entitled to recover, because
it did not appear that this requirement of that act had been
complied with. It was neither agreed no r made to appeai
aliunde that any proof was filed within the ten days.
There is another objection, which is equally conclusive.
The statute of 1823 requires the damage to be ascertained
before the goods are entered at the custom-house. This
order of proceeding was attempted to be inverted by the
plaintiffs. They entered the molasses regularly at the in
voice price, and then insisted upon an appraisement of the
damage, and a corresponding reduction of the duties, and
the latter being refused, paid the full amount under protest.
The protest was unavailing. The claim for an appraisement,
and for the consequent reduction of the duties, came too late.
The door to relief was then closed, and no power but the
legislature could reopen it. The right was one which the
importers might assert or waive at their option. The entry
of the goods was such a waiver, and it was final. There
was no power in the executive department of the government competent to restore it. We place our decision upon
two grdunds:
One-that the requisite proof was not lodged in the cus.
tom-house within the time prescribed by the act of 1799.
The other-that the molasses was completely entered be.
fore the proceedings authorized by the act of 1.823 werc
demanded and taken.
The judgment below is
AFFIRMED.

