UNITED STATES V. ARMiJo.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

or things in action, belonging to the defendant or held in
trust for him, with the exception above stated, which shall
be discovered by the proceedings in chancery."
The fourth section provides that when service cannot be
made at law, and a judgment cannot be obtained, and also
where the demand is of a purely equitable nature, "a court
of equity shall have jurisdiction to subject legal and equitable interests in every species of stock and other property,
with the exception hereinbefore stated, and also in real
estate."
The Supreme Court of the State decided, in the suits referred to, that this statute embraces trusts of real estate, and
that it exempted the property in question from liability to
the judgment creditors. There can be no doubt of the power
of the legislature to pass the statute. Its wisdom and policy
are considerations with which we have nothing to do. Being a local statute and involving a rule of property, we adopt
the construction which has been given to it by the highest
judicial tribunal of the State.
This is decisive of the case as to those of the appellees
who were not parties to the former suits.
The decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause will be remanded to that court with directions to enter
a decree
IN

CONFORMITY

TO THIS OPINION.

UNITED STATES V. ARMIJO ET AL.
1. The motives which may actuate parties intervening in a California land
case to appeal, or the fact that an inconsiderable interest in the grant is
represented by them, can have no influence -upon the decision of the
matter presented. The holder of the slightest interest, if properly be.
fore the court, has the right to insist upon a fair location of the quantity
granted, however much such location may clash with the wishes of his
co-owners.

2 Where two grants in California, made by the Mexican government, were
both for specific quantities without designation of location or bounds,

IDec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES v. ARMIJO.
Statement of the case.

except that they were within the same general outboundaries, which in.
cluded %much larger quantity of land than was specified in both grants,
the location by occupation and settlement of the second grantee under a
provisional license of an earlier date than the first grant was properly
respected in the survey of his land after his grant was confirmed. The
equity created by the prior occupation and settlement under the provisional license, was superior to that of the other grantee, although the
formal title was first issued to the latter.
13.Where a grant was of a specified quantity within exterior limits embracing a much larger quantity, there was no obligation on the part of the
former government, nor is there on that of the present government, to
allow the quantity to.be selected in accordance with the wishes of the
grantee. The duty of thegovernment is discharged when the right conferred by the grant to the quantity designated is attached to a specific
and defined tract.
4. Under our system the grantee is allowed the privilege of directing a selection of the quantity granted, subject only to the restriction that the
selection be made in one body, and in a compact form. It is a privilege
given by the generosity of the government ; but its exercise is not permitted, so as to defeat the equitable prior rights of others.
5. As compactness of form depends, in many instances, upon a variety of
circumstances, such as the character of the country, its division into
different parcels by mountains, rivers, and lakes, and sometimes by its
relation to neighboring grants, it will be sufficient if the survey be in
reasonable conformity with the decree of confirmation.
APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of California.
The question presented for determination in the case related to the location of the southwestern line of the survey
of a grant of land in California, made to one Francisco Armijo, which survey was approved by the District Court. The
Arnijo grant adjoined another grant in California mande to
one Francisco Solano; and, to understand the question presented, a statement of the origin and nature of both of the
grants is necessary.
In January, 1837, Francisco Solano, a chief of an Indian
tribe, presented a petition to the commanding general of the
northern frontier of California, and director of colonization,
for a grant of a tract of land of about four square leagues
in extent, known by the name of Suisun. In his petition
he represented that the land belonged to hint by hereditary
right from his ancest rs, and that he was in its actual posses.

UNITED STATES V. ARMIJo.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

sion, but that he desired to "revalidate" his rights; that is,
to obtain a new recognition of their validity, in accordance
with the existing laws of the -Republic and the recent law of
colonization decreed by the supreme government. The commanding general soon afterwards, during the same month,
acceded to the petition so far as to give Solano a provisional
grant of the land, "as belonging to him by natural right
and actual possession," but accompanied it with a direction
to him to ask from the government the usual title, in order
to give validity to his rights, in conformity with the new law
of colonization. In accordance with this direction, Solano
applied, in January, 1842, to Alvarado, then Governor of
California, for a full grant, accompanying his application
with the above petition to the commanding general and the
provisional grant of that officer.
On the 20th of the same month a formal grant was accordingly issued to him by the Governor, which was afterwards
approved by the departmental assembly.
This grant was presented to the board of land commissioners created under the act of March 3, 1851, by Archibald
C. Ritchie, who had become interested in the land, and the
same was confirmed to him by the board, and afterwards by
the District Court, and the decree of confirmation was affirmed by this court at its December Term, 1854.*
In the following year the four square leagues were surveyed under the directions of the Su'veyor-General of the
United States for California, and the survey was approved
by that officer. In conformity with this survey, a patent
was issued by the United States to Ritchie in January, 1857,
and his representatives (heirs or vendees) have been in possession of the premises ever since.
In November, 1839, more than two years after the application of Solano to the commanding general, Francisco Armijo also presented a petition to that officer for a grant of a
tract of land of about three leagues in extent, known by the
,lame of Tolenas, representing that the land solicited ad* 17 Howard, 525.

Dec. 1866.)

UNITED STATES V. ARMIJO.

Statement of the case.

joins the Suisun tract. The general immediately gave the
petitioner permission to occupy the-land thus situated, as it
was vacant and was not private property. The order granting this permission enjoins upon the petitioner, as a duty, to
avoid molesting the Indians or other neighbors, to endeavor
'o win their confidence, to give information of any attempt
at rebellion, and, in every case, to act in accord with the
chief of the Suisun, and directs him to apply, with this
order, to the political authorities for the necess.ry title-papers. Application was accordingly made to the prefect of
the district, and by him the application was transferred to
the governor of the department, who, on the 4th of March,
1840, issued to Armijo a formal grant of the premises. One
of the conditions annexed to the grant provided that on no
account should the grantee molest the Indians nor his immediate neighbors. This grant was also presented to the
board of land commissioners, and was rejected. On appeal to the District Court, the decision of the board was reversed and the grant confirmed, and at the December Term
of 1859 the deo ree of the District Court was affirmed by this
court.
The survey made by the Surveyor-General of the United
States for California of the tract thus confirmed located the
land adjoining the tract patented to Ritchie, and was a.pproved by the decree of the District Court in July, 1863,
and the case came before this court on appeal from this decree. The appeal was prosecuted by two intervenors, claiming under the Armijo title. All the other representatives of
the original'grantee approved of the location made, and desired its confirmation.
The United States were also appellants on the record, but
they did not press their objections urged in the court below.
The specific quantity granted was not described by metes
and bounds in either of the two grants, but in each refer.
ence was made to a map indicating the exterior limits
within which the quantity Was to be taken. Both maps repreSented, to a great extent, the same general tract, and the intervenors sought to include within the survey of the Armijo

UNITED STATES V.

ARMIJo.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

grant a portion of the land patented to Ritchie, and thus to
be enabled to retain the land occupied by tbem, either as
pre-emptors or holders of warrants issued by the State for
the five hundred thousand acres given by Congress under
the act of September 4, 1841.

Messrs. J. B. Williams and J. A. Wills, for the appellants, and
Messrs. Carlisle and Stanley, for the respondents.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court, as follows:
The motives which may actuate the intervenors appealing, or the fact that an inconsiderable interest in the grant
is represented by them, can have no influence upon the decision of the matter presented. The holder of the slightest
interest, if properly before the court, has the right to insist
upon a fair location of the quantity granted, however much
such location may clash with the wishes of his co-owners.
The intervenors appealing rest their claim principally
upon two grounds:
1st. Upon the alleged priority of the grant to Armijo;
and
2d. Upon the alleged priority of occupation and settlement.
The priority of the grant consists only in the date of the
former title-papers. The grant to Armijo bears date on the
Ith day of March, 1840; that to Solano on the 20th of January, 1842. But the rights of Solano are recognized by Armijo in his petition, and in the order of concession by the
commanding general, and are specially referred to in the
formal grant issued by the governor. The concession to Armijo assumes, and correctly assumes, that the 'ad known
as Tolenas was vacant and unappropriated. It is clear, therefore, that the political authorities intended that Armijo should
take his grant in subordination to the previously existng, or,
at least, previously asserted, rights of the Indian chief.
There can be no doubt, as observes the district judge, that,
under those circumstances, the rights of Solano. according

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED

STATES

V. ARMIJO.

449

Opinion of the court.

to Mexican usages, would have been recognized as superior
to those of Armijo in any contest, notwithstanding the for.
real title issued first to Armijo. And, as he justly adds,
"the archives abound in instances where not only the equity
created by a prior occupation and cultivation under a provisional license to occupy, but even that created by a prior solicitation, has been recognized and enforced."
This is not all. Where a grant was of a specific quantity
within exterior limits embracing a much larger quantity,
there was no obligation on the part of the former government, nor is there any obligation on the'part of the present
government, to allow the quantity to be selected in accordance with the wishes of the grantee. The duty of the government is discharged when the right conferred by the grant
to the quantity designated is attached to a specific and defined tract.
Under our system the right of the grantee to direct a selection of the quantity granted is admitted, subject only to
the restriction that the selection be made in one body, and
in a compact form. This right, we say, is admitted, though
strictly it is not a right; it is only a privilege given by the
generosity of the government.
The law of Mexico, as stated by Galvan, was otherwise.
It was as follows: "No person, though his grant be older
than others, can take possession for himself, or measure, or
set limits to his landed property, unless it is done by judicial
authority, with the citation of all those who bound upon him;
for whatever is done contrary to this will be null, of no validity or effect:"*
And to the same purport is the language of this court
in the case of Fremont v. United Statcs.t "Under the Mexican government," said the court, " the survey was to be
made or approved by the officer of the government, and the
party was not at liberty to give what form he pleased to the
grant. This precaution was necessary, in order to prevent
the party from giving it such a form as would be inconveniSee Ordonanzas de tierras y aguas, by Galvan, ed. of 1855, p. 185.
t 17 Howard, 542.

*

VOL

V.

29

UNITED STATES

v.

ARMIjO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ent to the adjoining public domain and impair its value.
The right which the Mexican government reserved to control this survey passed, with all other public rights, to the
United States, and the survey must now be made under the
authority of the United States, and in the form and divisions prescribed by law for surveys in California, embracing
the entire grant in one tract."
The exercise of the right of selection given to the grantee
is not permitted by the political authorities, and when a location is subject to the control of the courts is' never permitted by them so as to defeat the equitable rrior rights of
others.
2. The alleged priority of occupation and settlement consists in the fact that Armijo, after obtaining his grant, built
a house upon a portion of the land included in the patent to
Ritchie, and occupied it. But this fact is met by the further
fact that the erection of the house gave rise to a suit between
the owners of the two grants as to the boundary between
them, which finally led to an arbitration of the matter. The
award, as we construe it, fixed the Sierra Madre as the common boundary of their respective claims. The patent of the
Suisun tract does not embrace any land situated on the Armijo side of this boundary, and cannot, therefore, be justly
a ground of objection by the claimants under the Armijo
title.
The objection that the survey does not locate the land in
a compact form cannot be sustained. Compactness of form
must depend, in many instances, upon a variety of circumstances: such as the character of the country, its division
into different parcels by mountains, rivers, and lakes, and
sometimes by the relat ion of the tract to neighboring grants.
In this ease, the Tolenas tract is surrounded by three grants,
confirmed, surveyed, and patented. The survey is made so
as to avoid collision with any of' the elder patents, and,
under these circumstances, is in reasonable conformity with
the'decree of confirmation-the only coniformity which the
law requires..
DECREE AFFIRMED.

