180

THE TERESITA.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
steamer Granite City, and, with her cargo, was condemned, by
the decree of the District Court for the Eastern District of Lou.
.siana. The case came before this court upon the appeal of the
claimants.

Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General, for the United States;
_21r. _3farvin, contra,for the claimants.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The proof shows that the brig was the property of a neutral
merchant of the island of Jersey, fully documented as a British
merchantman, and regularly cleared from London to Alata.

moras.
The cargo was shipped by the charterers of the vessel for
neutral owners, and consigned to neutrals at Matamoras, but
bad not been discharged at the time of capture.
It consisted in part of bales of confederate uniform cloth, of
the saine mark and of corresponding numbers with like goods
found on the Science; but there is no proof of unlawful destination.
The brig, however, anchored in Texan waters, near the coast,
and remained there until captured.*
This circumstance alone did not warrant condemnation,
though, in connection with the character of the cargo, it justifled capture.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed; and a decree of restitution, on payment of costs and charges, must be
entered instead of it.
REVERSAL AND DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

THE TERESITA.
A neutral vessel, at anchor, completely laden with a neutral cargo, on
the neutral side of a river dividing neutral from hostile water, washing
a blockaded coast, was captured as being subject to just suspicion of
an intent to break the blockade.
2. The captain of the vessel (who was, however, absent at the time of cap* See chart, supra, p. 17.-Rir,

Dec. 1866.]

THE TERESITA.
Opinion of the court.

ture), and the mate) being examined in preparatorio,testified that she
was in neutral waters when captured. A stevedore, yet on board, that
she had drifted to the place where she was taken, nnder stress of weather;
he not knowing whether when captured she was in neutral waters or not.
Held, that this preliminary testimony warranted restoration.
8. Further proof having been allowed, it appeared that the vessel when captured was a quarter or a half mile within the hostile waters; the mate
admitting this fact, but testifying that the vessel had drifted to the spot,
itf anchor and chain being too light, and he expressing as one reason for
not returning to the former anchorage as soon as the wind became fair,
that the captain was in port (about 36 miles distant), with the ship's
papers, and that he did not like to move the vessel without orders; and,
as another, that the ship was fully laden and ready to sail, and had been
seen by two blockading men-of-war, which did not disturb her, and that
he thought the vessel might safely remain where she was till the captain
returned; the mate proposing, also, if not captured, to return at once
to the anchorage from which he had drifted. On this,
Held, that the case for the captors was not improved by the further proof'
and that with the restitution costs and expenses to be paid by the captors, was to be decreed.
APPEAL

from the District Court of the United States for

the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States.
Mr. Beverdy Johnson, contra,for the claimant.
The CHIEF JUSTICE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The bark Teresita was captured near the mouth of the
Rio Grande, on the 16th of November, 1863, by the United
States steamer Granite City. The cargo consisted of one
hundred and fifty-eight bales of cotton.
She was brought into New Orleans for adjudication; and,
upon bearing, the District Court directed restitution of the
vessel and cargo.
There was no question of the neutrality of the ship or her
cargo; but it was claimed for the captors that she was in
Texan waters when captured, and therefore subject to just
suspicion of intent to break the blockade.
The captain and the mate of the ship, in their preparatory

THIE TERESITA.

['kup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

depositions, testified that she was in Mexican waters; but
the captain being on shore at the time, could not be certain] 3
informed as to this. A stevedore, who had been employed
on board the vessel and had not been discharged, testified
that she'had drifted to the place where she was taken, under
stress of weather. He did not know whether she was then
in Texan or American waters. Her 'full cargo had.been
taken in at her former anchorage.
The preliminary hearing took place on this evidence,
which, doubtless, warranted restitution.
Further proof, however, was allowed. It consisted of depositions by the captain and some other officers of the Granite
City to the effect that the Teresita when captured was a
quarter or half a mile north of the line, according to the
bearings by the compass, and that the mate admitted that
she was in Texan waters. But the same deposition showed
that the mate declared that his vessel had drifted to the spot,
his anchor and chain being too light; and assigned, as one
reason for not returning to the former anchorage as soon as
the wind became fair, that the captain was at Matamoras
with the ship's papers, and he did not like to move the vessel without orders; and, as another, that the ship was fully
laden and ready to sail, and had been seen by two American
men-of-war, which did not disturb her, and he thought, therefore, that she might safely remain where she was till the
captain returned. It appeared, also, that the mate proposed
if not captured, to return at once to the anchorage from
which he had drifted.
We are of opinion that, under such circumstances, temporary anchorage in waters occupied by the blockading vessels,
does not justify capture, in the absence of other grounds.
The case for the captors was not improved by the further
proof. The decree of restitution must be affirmed, and we
shall .lirect the costs and expenses to be paid by the captors.
DECREE AND

DIRECTION ACCORDINGLY.

