Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON v. Rwi(S.
Syllabus.

who were complainants in the court below. They had appealed from the original decree of foreclosure, on the ground
that it did not include certain property which they were entitled to have sold under the mortgage. Upon the questions
involved in that appeal, the members of the court who heard
the argument-which was by the same counsel as the appeal by
the other side, their positions only as respected appellant and
appellee being reversed-were equally divided in opinion, and
the decree and orders complained of were therefore affirmed.

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.
1. The eighth section of the act of Congress of 1863 (12 Stat. at Large, 764),
to reorganize the courts of the District of Columbia, and which says,
"that if, upon the trial of the cause, an exception be taken, the bill containing it need not be sealed or signed," does not dispense with a regular
bill of exceptions in the way Usual in Circuit Courts of the United States
when the rulings of the court, ,inadmitting or rejecting evidence, or in
giving or refusing instructions, are meant to be brought from the Supreme Court of the District to this court for review. The provision has
reference to carrying such rulings from the special to the general term
of the Supreme Court of the District itself. -PomeroyIs Lessee v. Bank
of Indiana (1 Wallace, 602), allproved.
2. A customer of certain bankers at Washington, D. C., in times when,
specie payments having been lately suspended, coin was acquiring one
value and currency .(paper money) another and less, deposited with
them both coin and paper money; the different deposits being entered
in his pass-hbook, the one as "coin" the other as "currency," &c.
Debts being at this time payable by law only in coin, the bankers requested their customer to make his full balance coin, which he did.
Congress passed, about eight months afterwards, an act making certain
treasury notes lawful money for the payment of debts. The depositor
went on depositing "coin," and "treasury notes" then regarded as
currency, and both were entered accordingly. He afterwards drew for
"coin," for a part of his deposit, exceeding the coin deposited after the
legal tender act, and his check was paid in coin. He afterwards drew
for "coin,"-the bulk of his coin balance deposited before the legal
tender act. Coin was refused and tender made of the notes declared by
Congress a legal tender. On suit brought to recover the market value
of the coin drawn for-the bank teller having testified among other
things that "after the suspension, and particularly after the act making
treasury notes a legal tender, his employers uniformly made with customer, depositing with them a difference, in receiving and paying their

TiHOMPSON

v. RIGGS.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.
deposits, between coin or specie and paper money, and in all cases when
the deposit was in coin they paid the checks of their customers in coin
when they called for coin, otherwise they paid currency, treasury or
bank notes "-the plaintiff offered evidence to show "that the usage and
mode of dealing between the said parties as set out in the testimony of
the teller was uniformly used and practised by all the banks and bankers of the District of Columbia 'with their customers"Held, that the evidence was rightly excluded.

E.RROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Riggs & Co. were bankers in the District of Columbia:
Thompson was a business man there, keeping a bank account
with them, depositing specie, treasury notes, bank notes,
bills for collection, in. the ordinary way of bank customers.
Prior to April, 1861, no distinction apparently had been made
in the mode of entering, in his pass-book, credits of coin and
credits of curre'nt bank notes, then payable throughout the
country in coin, on demand. All kinds of money deposited
had been entered in the pass-books alike. In April, 1861,
the banks generally suspended specie payments, and a diffei'ence between the value of coin and of bank notes, or
4i current funds," as these were called, began to show itself,
becoming by degrees, for some time, greater. Riggs & Co.,
at that date, began to make a difference in receiving, and
paying deposits, paying in coi'n when the deposit
was made
in coin, and in currency when made in currency. On the
18th June, 1861, Thompson had made depositsCoin,
Currency,

$2,920 09
2,463 60
$5,383 69

On that day Riggs & Co. required him to make his full
balance specie, which was done by his drawing a cheek,
payable in currency, and depositing the check of another
customer of the bank, payable in coin, for a. like sum, and
which was received and credited by the bank as specie. On
tne-3d of September, 1861, Thompson drew another check
on the bank for $1000, payable in currency, and at the same
time deposited a check, drawn by the same customer, in like

Dec. 1866.]

TuoMPSON V.

RIGGS.

Statement of the case.

manner, payable in specie, for $1000, which was credited as
cash.
Afterwards, in like manner, Thompson, from time to
time, deposited with Riggs & Co. other checks, drawn on
them by the same customer, payable in specie, some of
which were credited as coin, and others as cash, to an
amount exceeding $1600.
An extract from the bank book shows the exact form of
entries between June 18, 1861, and the 25th of February,
1862.
DR.

CR.

1861.
June 18. To bat. ( 2 ,4 6 83ie
cur.),
June 24. Coin,
July 5. Cash,
....
Aug. 3 Do.,
Aug. 17. Do.,
Aug. 31. Do.,
....
Sept. 3. Do., ....

1861.
June 22. By check, No.
$5,888 59
1,468 50
88 75
105 00
80 54
8....
105 60
1,000 00

$8,226
1861.
$5,761
Sept. 3. To balance,
Sept. 14. To cash,
127
50
Sept. 5. To King,
22
Sept. 21. To cash,
5. Do., ....
153
Oct.
488
Oct. 19. Do......
Oct.
5. To King,
50
92
Nov. 23. To cash,
Dec. 7. Do.,
....
186
Dec. 21. Do., ....
.140
Jan. 4. To treasury notes, 119
74
Jan. 11. To coin,.
Jan. 25. Do......
120
Feb. 8. Do......
...
127
Feb. 20. To Gideoi.,
197

July
Sept.

$1,463 50
1213, . .
1. By prot. Stevens,
1 75
8. Check, No. 1214, 1,000 00
Balance,

5,761 73

$8,226 98

98
73
71
00
00
23
20
00
10
84
00
41
72
86
11
05

$7,724 96

On the 25th February, 1862, above mentioned, Congress
passed an act authorizing the issue of notes of the United
States, which notes, the act declared, should be "lawful

Tnaompsox v. Rmos.,

666'

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of th~e case.

money and a legal tender in payment of all debts, public and pr
vate," except duties, and interest on the national debt.
The entries of credits in the pass-book, after the said 25th,
were thus:
1862.
Feb. 25.
M'ch 1.
R'ch 8.
M'ch 15.
MI'ch 22.

To bjalance.
To T. notes, .
Do.,
.41
To coin,
To coin,

$7,724 96
158 51
00
71 94
65 84

On t-he 8th May, 1863, Thompson drew for $750 coin;
more than the amount deposited after the passage of the legal
tender law. This was paid in coin.
On the 23d of February, 1864, he drew for $6600 "coin."
Riggs & Co. made a tender of notes created by the act of
Congress. These were declined, and assumpsit brought in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to recover a
sum of money equal to the just commercial value of $6600
in gold coin; a value, on the day of the draft, of $157 for
,every $100 of the notes tendered; and,'on the day of the
suit, of about $200 for each such $100.
The declaration had four countsTwo on an alleged custom of bankers in Washington, to
receive gold and silver coin, bank and other notes on deposit,
keeping separate entries of the character of the deposit, and
to respond to the checks drawn upon them in kind; to pay
coin for deposits in coin, and notes for deposits in notes, and
that the plaintiffh so dealt with the defendants; and having
a large balance to their credit, in February, 1864, in gold
coin, they drew two checks for coin, payment of which was
refused:
And two on a special agreement in substance the same as
the usage above stated, arising in like manner.
Pleas: 1st. That the defendants did not promise as alleged.
2d. Tender of treasury notes made by Congress a legal
tender in payment of debts.
On the trial, at special term, before Mr. Justice Wylie, the
teher of Riggs & Co. testified thus:

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON V. RIiGS.

Statement of the case.
"Prior to the suspension, the defendants paid all checks drawn
upon them by their customers in gold or itij equivalent, except
when the deposit had been in Virginia or other depreciated
lyaper, and then they.paid in like kind. After the -suspension,
and particularly after the act of February 25, 1862, making
treasury notes a legal tender, they uniformly made, with their
customers depositing with them, a difference, in receiving and
paying their deposits, between coin or specie and paper money,
and in all cases when the deposit was in coin they paid the
checks of their customers in coin when they called for coin;
otherwise they paid currency, treasury or bank notes."
On cross-examination, he said:
"After the suspension the defendants would no longer receive
currency, then depreciated, as the equivalent of specie, as before; it continued to be received and credited to the customer,
as appears by the books, and went into the general funds of the
bank; the same money was never returned to the customer, and
was not received on special deposit; the plaintiffs never had made
any special deposit with the defendants; the books of the bank and
the pass-books were kept as before the suspension, except that
the different deposits were designated by being marked, respectively,
coin and currency."
" Thereupon the plaintiff offered to give evidence to show
that the usage and mode of dealing between the said parties,
as set out in the testimony of the teller, was uniformly used
and practised by all the banks and bankers of the District
of Columbia with their customers."
The record proceeded:
"Which last offered evidence, being objected to by. defendants,
is excluded by the court, and to said ruling of the court the plaintiff excepts in law, and prays the court to sign and seal this their
first'bill of exceptions, which is done accordingly, this eleventh
day of June, 1864.
[SEAL.]

"ANDREW

WYLIE"

The Supreme Court of the District in which the action
was brought, was created in'1863 by "An act to reorganize

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the Courts of the District of Columbia." It is composed of
four judges. A single justice holds what is called a " special
term" (the Nisi Prius). Three justices hold the "general
term," or ancient Couri in Banc.
Any party aggrieved by a judgment of the court at special term, may appeal to the court at general term. The
eighth section of the statute enacts:
"That if, upon thi trial of a cause an exception be taken, it
may be reduced to writing at the time, or it may be entered on
the minutes of the justice, and afterwards settled in such manner as may be provided by' the rules of the court, and then
stated in writing in a case or bill of exceptions with so much
of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be raised;
but such case or bill of exceptions need not be sealed or signed."
And the eleventh section says:
"Any final judgment, &c., may be re-examined in the Supreme
Court of the United States, in the same cases and in like manner,
as is now provided by law, in reference to final judgments, &c!,
of the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia."
In this last-named court, bills of exceptions had been in
the old and usual form; that is to say, had been signed and
sealed by the judge.
On the trial, both parties resting, the plaintiffs prayed the
court to give certain instructions set out in the record-as
"that, by the Constitution of the United States, no tender of
the payment of a debt is good unless made in gold and silver coin, &c.," which the court refused to give; giving other
instructions. And the record proceeded, no judge's seal or signature appearing:
"And to the said ruling of the court, as well as to refusing to
give as to giving said instructions, the plaintiff excepts in law, and
said exception and the evidence aforesaid are hereby made record."
Verdict having gone for the defendant, the case was taken
to the court at general term, and judgment entered finally
for the defendant.

Dec. 1866.]

THtOMPSON V. R IGGS.
Argument for the depositor.

The case being now here on error, two questions arose:
1st. Whether in order to bring exceptions to this court
from the court just named, it was necessary that they should
be signed and sealed by the judge; a question, upon whose
resolution, as it might be the affirmative or negative, depended the fact whether the instructions asked and given at
the special term as to the constitutionality of the legal tender law had, or had not, got here for review.
2d. Whether the court had rightly refused the offer of
proof that the usage and mode of dealing between the parties
in this cause was uniformly used and practised by all banks
and bankers in the District with their customers.
The first question was suggested here by this court.
Messrs. Bradley and Wilson, for the plaintiff"in error:
I. Of course, independently of the act of Congress which
organized the Supreme Court of the District, exceptions, in
order to take up a case on error, must be signed and sealed
by the judge. But that act, in its eighth section, dispenses
with this ancient, cumbrous, and really quite useless formality. It declares in terms that if made part of the record (as
they were here) bills of exception "need not be sealed or
signed."
IT. The instructions asked for, and those given, involving
the constitution~ality of the legal tender act, so far as it makes
paper lawful money, are therefore before this court for adjudication. [The counsel then argued in support of the unconstitutionality of this provision of the legal tender act.]
III. The evidence of the usage ought to have been received.
In the latter part of 1861 it had become evident, as every
one knows, that coin was ceasing to be the circulating medium of commerce, and was daily appreciating in value.
There was a daily increasing difference between gold and
silver, which, although a circulating medium, had an intrinsic
value, ayid currency, which was merely the representative of
value. Apprehending that this difference would continue
and increase, it was quite natural for all parties dealing as

670

THOMPSON

v. RIGGS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the depositor.

bankers and customers, to say the one to the other: "In our
dealings we will, for our mutual benefit, distinguish coin
from bank and other bills-both shall be returned in kindgold we will repay with gold, the other we will repay in currency." Indeed, such agreements were made essential to
commercial safety by the events that were then taking
place. They were modifications of the usual relations between banker and customer, and adjustments to the exigencies of the times.
The natural inference, then, from the entries found in
this pass-book, in such a state of the currency-never made
in any pass-book in ordinary times and when gold is not at
a premium-was that such had been the understanding here.
The entries of themselves imported as much. As the short
entry of numbers in the money columns signified not only
that so many dollars had been deposited, but that so many
dollars also were to be returned, so the most natural import of the words "coin" and "treasury notes,1' written at
the same time and by one pen with, and in immediate juxtaposition to those numbers, meapt not only that that " coin"
or "treasury notes" had been deposited, but also that coii
and treasury notes were to be paid. Especially was this the
most natural meaning when coin was "worth double of treasury notes. The words, indeed, in connection with the known
state of the currency, could not well have any other'meaning than that which we asserted, unless we suppose that a
man deposits $6600 expecting when he calls for it-the next
hour perhaps-to receive just $3300.
Even the testimony of Riggs & Co.'s teller, it may be remarked-though this'is not important; for the whole .matter
was for the jury-is direct to the effect of the entries; for he
states that with all their other customers Riggs & Co. uniformly paid coin or currency, as one or the other was deposited, and, of course, entered in the pass-book. Nor is
this affected by his statement on cross-examination-that
"the same money was never returned to the customer." Of
course it was not. โข But only "the like kind" of money. It
was not set up at all by Thompson that he had made a '" spe.

'Dec' 1866.]

TIIOIpSON V. RiGGS.
Argument for the depositor.

cial deposit" in the law sense of that word. His money was
not marked with an ear-mark, 'nor in a box or bag. Such
deposits are but a charge to bankers. But in times when
goldis undergoing fluctuations of value they want gold not
the less on deposit. Going into thei general funds of the
bank, it is theirs. They use it as they* do other deposits,
viz., to lend out; and when gold is worth' twice as much as
currency to lend out at double the rates of currency. In'
other words, they borrow it as they do deposits of currency,
to'pay back on draft; not, of course, the identical pieces of
gold but only the same number of dollars in gold coin ; in
both cases the deposit being in the nature of what the civil
law calls a mutuum. The teller states that "the books of the
bank and the pass-books were kept as before the suspension
-except that the different deposits were designated as being
marked respectively coin and. currency." In the exception
consists the basis of the claim. He says also that -deposits
of " currency" went into the general funds of the bank.
But he does not say that deposits of gold ever went into the
general mass of the "currency," or into the general mass of
anything except of the gold itself.
The offer was, therefbre, not to contradict or vary a contract, or even to supply an omission'in it; but the form of
it being very curt and technical-in the style of.bankersto explain it by showing in what way if was acted on universally. by bankers and their customers in the District; a way,
as the teller showed, in which it had been uniformly acted on
by these same bankers with their customers generally. This
was allowable. The uniform custom of banks in the District
of Columbia constitutes a part of the contracts between
bankers and depositors.* The offer, in fact, was in support
of that which, apparently, formed and was the contract.
Neither was the evidence offered to vary general law.
That, of course, cannot be done. But there is no law that
when gold money is worth twice as much as paper money,
Wigglesworth v. Dallisont 1 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th.Am ed. 887
Rq aner v. Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheaton, 582.

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.

[Slip. Ct,

Argument for the bankers.

a man depositing gold money And paper money in the same
bank may not agree that when he asks for gold money back
he shall have it, to the extent of his deposit; being bound
also when he has deposited but paper to take paper back.
Messrs. Carlisle & W. S. Cox, contra,for the bankers, defendants in error:
I. The objection suggested from the Bench, as to the absence of any proper bill of exceptions to raise the principal
question, the question of constitutionality of the legal-tender
act, seems to us well taken. We are instructed, however,
to waive any such objection if it be competent for us to do
so. The point is not made upon our brief. The argument
in support of it may be briefly stated thus:
Final judgments in the Supreme Court of the District are
to be examined here, not only in the same cases, but "in the
same manner"'as formerly. The provision in the eighth section dispensing with seals and signature had reference to
appeals from the special term to the general term.
I. Accordingly no question as to instructions can arise
here. The case then stands thus-of an act of Congress
making certain notes a legal tender, of a tender in them,
and of a refusal; there being no allegation in the court below, so far as appears here, that the law authorizing a tender in notes was not constitutional and of course binding on
all. However, we are ready to argue the constitutional question. [The counsel then argued at length accoirdingly.]
HI. To resolve the remaining question-the admissibility
of the supposed usage-it is only necessary distinctly to understand the true state of facts upon which it arose
This suit is not brought to recover a balance of deposits
made in coin after the passage of the legal-tender act. All
such deposits were repaid, and largely overpaid, in coin, on
the check of May 8th, 1863, for $750. The balance sued for
is that which the~passage of the act found in the banker's
hands, and which, if it were, as the law contemplates, used
in banking, could thereafter only be recovered by the banker
tbr his debtors, in legal-tender notes. The plaintifl's theory

Dec. 1866.]

THoMPSON

V.

RIGGs.

673

Opinion of the court.

is, that he had only to allow that balance to remain to his
credit and thereafter make his demand for gold when the
premium should be highest; thus compelling the banker,
nolens volens, to be, his broker, and to secure for him all the
advantages, with none of the risks, of speculation upon the
national currency. The check for $6600 was drawn upwards
of two years after the passage of the act; and might with
like supposed results have been delayed till gold was at 300.
As there was no evidence tending to show that any of this
balance was deposited after the passage of the legal-tender
act, it was impertinent to offer proof of the usage where such
deposits were made and received as coin. If the act was to
have any operation or vitality at all, it must needs apply to
bankers' balances due-at its passage. Plainly, it was bindio- on the banker as to debts due him growing out of the
legitimate use of the sums which had been so deposited.
To apply it to his receiving hand, and not to his paying
hand, would be absurd. The offer was, to defeat the statuto
by proof of a supposed usage. This.was inadmissible.
Repl.-That the coin deposits were made before the tender act passed is unimportant. They were not made till
after the distinction in value between coin and paper was
established: ten months before the act. All loans made by
Riggs &Co. incoin after April, 1861, were, in fact, paid in coin.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.

Substance. of the declaration was that the defendants were
bankers, exercising the trade and business of banking, and
that the plaintiffs were their customers, and as such were in
the hahit of making their deposits at their bank, and that
the defendants, as such bankers, were accustomed to receive
as deposits gold and silver coin, and other money currency,
of their customens, to be paid and returned in kind, agreeably to the custom of their bank and all other hanks in the
city of Washington; and that the plaintiffs, on the twentyeighth (lay of February, 1864, having a balance due them at
VOL. V.

48

674

THOMPSON

v. RIGos.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

the bai k of the defendants, of five thousand seven hundred
and sixty-one dollwrs, as deposits previously made there in
gold and silver coin, demanded payment and return of the
same, and that the defendants then and there refused to
make such payment and return as they had promised to do.
Defendants pleaded the general issue, and that they, at a
certain time prior to the suit, tendered and offered to pay to
the plaintiffs the sum of money in their declaration mentioned in treasury notes, made a legal tender in payment of
debts, and that from that time they have been and still are
ready to pay the same, and now bring the same into court.
1. Parties went to trial at a special term of the court and
the verdict and judgment were for the defendants. Objection was duly taken by the plaintiffs to one of the rulings
of the court in excluding certain testimony offered by them
to show the usage and mode of dealing of'other banks, and
the bill of exceptions to the ruling was regularly drawn out
and duly signed and sealed.
Prayers for instructions to the jury were duly presented
by the plaintiffs and they were refused by the court, and
other and different instructions were given in their place,
but i7o bill of exceptions in that behalf was tendered by the
plaintiffs, or signed or sealed by the court.
Statement in the min'utes is that the plaintiffs excepted in
law as well to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury as
requested, as to the instructions given, and that the exceptions and the evidence are hereby made record. Plaintiffs
also made a motion for new trial, assigning two causes: (1.)
Because the coult refused to instruct the jury as prayed by
the plaintiffs. (2.) Because the court instructed the jury as
prayed by the defendants.
Order of the court was that the motion should be heard
o)efore the court at general term. Both parties were heard
before the full bench, and the court affirmed the judgment
Writ of error to this court
as rendered at the special terrm'.
was stied out by the plaintiffs.
2. Principal questions discussed at the bar are presented,
if at al ,,in the prayers for instructions which were refused,

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON

v. RIGGS.

Opinion of the court.

and in the instructions which were given to the jury. Defendants, contend that neither the prayers for instructions
nor the instructions given are before the court, as they are
not exhibited in any bill of exceptions signed and sealed by
the justice who presided at the trial.
Settled practice in this court is that neither the rulings of
the court in admitting or rejecting evidence, or in giving or
refusing instructions can be brought here for revision in any
other mode than by a regular bill of exceptions. Final judgments in a Circuit Court may be re-examined in this court
and reVersed or affirmed upon a writ of error, founded upon
an agreed statement of facts, a special verdict, a dernurrer
to a material pleading, or a demurrer to evidence, as well as
by a bill of exceptions; but none of the other modes will
enable the appellate court to revise the rulings of the court
in refusing to instruct the jury as requested, or the instructions as given, or the rulings of the court in admitting or
rejecting evidence. Such rulings rest in parol and can only
be incorporated into the record by a bill of exceptions, and
of course cannot be re-examined in any other way.*
None of the other modes suggested, say the court, in the
case of Pomeroy's Lessee v. Bank of Indiana,t enable the complaining party to review or re-examine the rulings of the
court, except that of the bill of exceptions, and we reaffirm.
that rule.T
Instructions requested or given rest in parol and do not,
in the practice of this court, or in any other court where the
common law prevails, become a part of the record, unless
made so by a regular bill of exceptions, sealed by the judge
who presided at the trial; and it is the well-settled practice
in this court that an entry of the ruling in the minutes cannot be of any benefit to the party unless he seasonably re* Suydam v. Williamson, 20 Howard, 432.

t 1 Wallace, 602.

4 Bulkeley v. Butler, 2 Barnewall & Cresswell, 434; Seward v. Jackson,:8
Cowen, 406; 2 Tidd's Practice, 896; 4 Chitty's General Practice, 7; 2 Initit tes, 427; Dougherty v Campbell, 1 Blackford, 24; Cole v. Driske., Id.
i6; Strother v. Hutchinson, 4 Bingham; N. C. 89.

676

TIOMPSON V. RIGGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

duces the same to form and causes it to be sealed by the
judge.*
Views of the plaintiffs are that the bill of exceptions is
not necessary in cases removed here from the Supreme Court
of this District. Reference is made to the eighth section of
the act to organize the courts in this District, as furnishing
support to the proposition, but it is quite evident that the
section referred to relates exclusively to the practice in the
subordinate court, and not to the proceedings for the removal of the cause into this court for examination and revision.
Exceptions taken in the trial at the special term, before a
single justice, as there provided, may be reduced to writing,
at the time, or may be entered in the minutes of the justice
and settled afterwai'ds in such manner as the rules of the
court provide. Such exceptions must be "stated in writing
in a case or bill of exceptions, with so much of the evidence
as may be material to the questions to be raised; but the
case or bill of exceptions need not be signed or sealed."t
Motion for new trial may also be entertained by the jusfice who tries the cause, at the same term, in the manner
therein described. When such motion, however, is made
upon the minutes, an appeal to the general term may be
taken from the decision, in which case a bill of exceptions
or case shall be settled in the usual manner. Our only purpose in referring to that section is to show that no part of it
has anything to do with the question before the court.
No one of the clauses mentioned make any provision
whatever for a writ of' error or appeal to this court. Regulations upon That sibject are made by the eleventh section
of the same act, which provides that any final judgment, order, or decree of the court may be re-examined, and reversed
or affirmed, in the Supreme Court of the United States upon
writ of error or appeal in the same cases and in like manner
as is now provided by law in reference to the final judgments, orders, or decrees of the Circuit Court of the United
* Pomeroy's Lessee v. Bank of Indiana, 1 Wallace, 598.

t 12 Stat. at Large, 764.

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON V. RIras.
Opinion of the court.

States for this District. Writs of error and appeals werC
required to be prosecuted under that law, in the same manner, and under the same regulations as in the case of writs
of error or appeals from judgments and decrees rendered in
the Circuit Court of the United States.*
Conclusion is, that the regulations respecting the removal
of cases from the Supreme Court of this District, on writs of
error or appeal, are the same as from the Circuit Courts of
the United States, and, of course, the questions presented in
the prayers for inLruction, and in the instructions given to
the jury in this case, are not before the court, as neither the
prayers for instruction, nor the instructions given, are any
part of the record.
3. Remaining question arises under the exception to the
ruling of the court, in excluding the testimony offered by
the plaintiffs to show the usage and mode of dealing of other
bankers in this city. The teller of the defendants, called by
the plaintiffs, testified that the defendants, prior to the suspension of specie payments in April, 1861, paid all checks
drawn upon the bank by their customers in gold, or its
equivalent, except when the deposit had been made in depreciated paper; that after that time they uniformly made
a diffirence with their customers in receiving and paying
their deposits, between coin, or specie, and paper money,
and that in all cases where the deposit had been made in
coin, if requested, they paid the checks in coin; that after
the suspension of the banks the defendants refused to receive
currency as the equivalent of specie; that currency continued
to be received and credited to customers as before, but went
into the general funds of the bank, and the same money was
never returned to the customer, and it was not received on
special deposit; that the plaintiffs had never made any special
deposits with the defendants; that the books of the bank,
and the pass-books were kept as before the suspension, except that the different deposits were designated as coin,
cash, checks, or treasury noces.
4. Testimony of the teller of the bank is express to the
2 Stat. at Large, 106; United States v. Hooe et al., 1 Cranch, 318.

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

point that the plaintiffs never made any special deposit with
the defendants, and there is no testimony in the case to support any such theory. On the contrary, it is clear that they
made their deposits for their own convenience, and were
credited for the amount in the usual way on the books of
the bank.
Clear inference from the whole testimony is that the deposits of the defendants were made without condition or
special agreement of any kind, and in such cases the law is
well settled that the depositor parts with the title to his
money, and loans it to the bank.*
Deposits may be made under circumstances where the
legal conclusion would be that the title to the thing deposited remained with the depositor, and in that case the
bank would become the bailee of the depositor, and the latter might rightfully demand the identical money deposited
as his property.
Contracts between a banker and his customers are doubtless required to be performed, and must be construed in the
same way as contracts between other parties. When the
banker specially agrees to pay in bullion or in coin he must
do so or answer in damages for its value, and so if one agrees
to pay in depreciated paper, the tender of that paper is a
good tender, and in default of payment the promissee can
recover only its market and not its nominal value.t
But where the deposit is general, and there is no special
agreement proved, the title of the money deposited, whatever it may be, passes to the bank, and the transaction is
unaffected by the character of the money in which the deposit was made, and the bank becomes liable for the amount
as a debt, which can only be discharged by such money as
is by law a legal tender.t
Moneys deposited with the bank in this case were entered
in a pass-book in figures, expressing the amount in dollars
* Marine Bank v. Fulton Bank, 2 Wallace, 256.

t Robinson v. Noble, 8 Peters, 198; McCormick v. Trotter, 10 Sergeant
& Rawle, 96.
t Bank of I entucky v. Wister et al., 2 Peters, 825.

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON v. RiGs.
Opinion of the court.

and cents, and it appears that the character of the money
deposited is marked against each sum as coin, cash, check,
or treasury notes, as the fact was in each particular instance.
Such marks, however, are wholly insufficient to overcome
the testimony of the teller, who was introduced by the plaintiffs, and who was the only witness examined upon the subject. Proof that those words were written against the several deposits for any such purpose as is supposed by the
plaintiffs is entirely wanting; and in the absence of such
proof it is much more reasonable to infer that they were put
there as matter of convenience to the depositor, or to assist
the memory as to the amount of the respective credits, in
case of misrecollection or dispute.
No evidence of general usage or custom, in the ordinary
sense of those terms, was offered by the plaintiffs or appears
in the record. Customary rights and incidents universally
attaching to the subject-matter of the contract in the place
where it was made are impliedly annexed to the language
and terms of the contract, unless the custom is particularly
and expressly excluded. But evidence of usage is not admitted to contradict or vary express stipulations restricting
or enlarging the exercise and enjoyment of the customary
right. Omissions may be supplied, in some cases, by the
introduction of such proof, but it cannot prevail over or nullify the express provisions and stipulations of the contract.
So where there is no contract usage will not make one, as it
can only, be admitted either to izterpret the meaning of the
language employed by the parties in the absence of express
itipulations, or where the meaning is equivocal or obscure.*
Judge Story expressed himself strongly against local usages
or customs in particular trades or kinds of business, set up
to controvert or annul the general liabilities of parties under
the common law as well as, under the commercial law, and
remarked that there was great danger in admitting evidence
of such loose and inconclusive usages and customs often unBliven v. New England Screw Co., 23 Howard, 481; Addison on Contru ts, 853; Greenleaf's Evidence, sec. 292.

THOMPSON V. RIGGS.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

known to parties, and always liable to great misunderstanding and misinterpretations, and allow it to outweigh the
well-known and well-settled principles of law.*
Usage contrary to law, or inconsistent with the contract,
i'never admitted to control the general rules of law or the
real intent and meaning of the parties.t
Evidence of local usage to sell commercial paper, pledged
as a security for a loan, at private sale after demand of payment, and notice that such sale would be made in case of
default, was held to be inadmissible in the Court of Appeals
in the State of New York, all the judges concurring.1
Evidence )f the usage of banks to regard drafts drawn
upon them, p.,yable at a day certain, as checks, and not entitled to days of grace, is inadmissible as evidence to control
the rules of law in relation to such paper.ยง
General rule of law is, that if a merchant deposits money
with a bank, the title to the money passes to the bank, and
the latter becomes the debtor of the merchant to that
amount; and it is not perceived that the evidence offered,
if it had been admitted, could have had any other effect
,than to control that general rule of law, as it is not pretended that the evidence showed a special deposit or any
special contract. Viewed in any light consistent with the
other evidence in the record, the testimony was either entirely immaterial or inadmissible, as tending to control the
well-settled rules of law.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED,

WITH COSTS.

Schooner Reeside, 2 Sumner, 569.

f Dykers v. Allen, 7 Hill, 499; Woodruff v.Merchants' Bank, 25 Wen
dcll,
674.
: Wheeler v. Newbould, 16 New York, 896.
B wen v. Newell, 4 Selden, 194.

