188

EX PARTE THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

the blockaded coast and having sailed from that coast, was
attempting to run the blockade when captured.
But we are not inclined to condemn the vessel on this
ground, much less the forty-four bales and the thirty-nine
bales, which were taken on board at Matamoras.
But it is an undoubted principle that in a case of libel as
prize of war, the burden of proving the neutral ownership
of the ship and cargo is upon the claimants. In this case
satisfactory proof is made of neutral ownership in the cotton
laden at Matamoras. But there is no proof at all of such
ownership in the seventy-onIe bales put on board from
lighters; and no satisfactory proof of such ownership in the
schooner. On the contrary, the weight of the evidence is
that these bales were owned by a rebel enemy; and that the
sdme rebel enemy, either alone or in association with Jenny,
who makes no claim, owned the schooner.
. It results that the forty-four bales and the thirty-nine
bales must be restored to the claimants represented by the
master, without contribution to costs or expenses, and that
the seventy-one bales and the schooner must be condemned.
The decree below must be reversed and a decree entered
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

Ex

PARTE THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD COMPANY.

1. A case being properly in this court by appeal, the court has a right to issue
any writ which may be necessary to render its appellate jurisdiction effectual.
2. Accordingly, it will issue the writ of supersedeas if such writ be necessary
foi that purpose; the circumstances otherwise making it proper.
8. It will issue this writ rather than attain the same end by issuing a mandamus to the court below, in a case where the issuing of a mandamus
would control judicial action in a niatter apparently one of discretion ;
as ex gr. the approval or rejection of a bond offered for the court's approval.
1. Hence, where, after an appeal to this court, the judge below refused to
approve a bond for a supersedeas, because all the sureties were non-residents of the district, this court (though not agreeing with such judge in

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE THE MILWAUKEE RAILROAD CO.

189

Opinion of the court.
the opinion that mere non-residence within the district was a sufficient
reason for rejecting a bond, if, in all other respects, it were unobjectionable) declined to issue a mandamus to compel the judge to approve the
bond and allow a supersedeas, considering its right to do this doubtful;
but ordered that on filing a bond to be approved by t',e clerk of this
court, a supersedeas should issue from this court.

PETITION for a writ of mandamus.

The Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin having
rendered a decree in favor of J. T. Soutter, survivor, &c.,
against the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company
and the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company, on
the 5th March, 1867, for $40,000, and ordered a sale of the
road mortgaged to secure the debt, the last-mentioned company prayed an appeal to this court, which vxas allowed. For
the purpose of staying proceedings on the decree, they offered a bond, in the penalty of $50,000, within the ten days
allowed for that purpose, which the district judge decJined
to approve, but upon which he niade the following indorsement:
"March 16, 1867.

"The counsel of complainant having objected to the allowance of this bond for supersedeas, on the ground that all the
sureties are non-residents of the district,for this reason this bond is
not approved for a supersedeas.
"A. G. MILLER,
District Judge."

The record bf the case having been brought into this court
on the appeal taken, the appellants now petitioned the court
for a mandanus to compel the district judge to approve the
bond and allow a supersedeas, or for such other relief in the
premises as this court could give.
Messrs. Cram and Cushing, in favor of petition; Mr. Cary,
contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Although this court does riot concur in the opinion of the
district judge, that the fact of the non-residence of the sure-

BARTON V.

FORSYTH.[

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

ties within the district is a sufficient reason for rejecting a
bond which is in all other respects unobjectionable, we are
not inclined to interfere by mandamus with the discretion of
that judge in approving or rejecting a bond offered for his
approval. If we had the right to do this, which is extremely
doubtful, it is unnecessary, as the remedy which is in our
own hands is ample. The case being properly in this court
by appeal, we have, by the fourteenth section of the Judiciary
Act, a right to issue any writ which may be necessary to render our appellate jurisdiction effectual. For this purpose the
writ of supersedeas is eminently proper in a case where the
circumstances justify it, as we think they do in the present
instance. flardeman v. Anderson,* is an example of the exercise of this power precisely in point.
We shall therefore make an order, that upon the filing of
a bond for the sum of $50,000, with the usual conditions, at
any time within thirty days from this date, which shall be approved by the clerk of this court, a supersedeas will issue
from this court to the judge of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin, and to the marshal of the United States for said district, commanding a
stay of proceedings on said decree until the further orde
of this court,
TnE SAME BEING SUPERSEDED.

BARTON V. FORSYTH.
1. The appellate jurisdiction of this court on writs of error, under the twentysecond section of the Judiciary Act, is confined by the express words of
the section to final judgments, and the writ of error should be addressed
to the final judgment accordingly.
2. A judgment on a motion made by the plaintiff to set aside a writ of restitution which had been issued in favor of the defendant, and to grant a
writ of restitution to the plaintiff in a case, is not a final judgmentwithin the terms of the said section ; in fact is but an order of court.
4 Howard, 640.

