Dec. 1866.]

DIE

HARO V. UNITED STATES.

699

Syllabus.

rule in those courts where it is adopted at all, and it is rejected wholly in many, is that a juror cannot be permitted
to impeach his verdict, but that he is never refused to sustain it. And this only applies to proceedings to set aside
that verdict, and not to cases where the question of what
was actually decided may arise in another proceeding.
On the whole, I am of opinion that there was but one
question in the case, and that was whether the former verdict and judgment were based on the same contract counted
on in the present suit, and that the evidence which went to
the jury had a tendency to establish that fact, and the evidence rejected by the court had no tendency to disprove it.

DE

HARe V. UNITED STATES.

1. In 1844, persons in California petitioned the Mexican governor of that
province for a grant of certain described land, situated in the vicinity
of the Mission of San Francisco. The petition was referred to the secretary of state, who reported that the land was unoecupied, but that inasmuch as "common lands" (ejidos) were to be assigned to the said
mission, he was of opinion that in the meanwhile the petitioners might
occupy the land solicited under a provisional license. The governor
"
thereupon made a decree, declaring the petitioners
empowered to occupy provisionally " the land, and directing a proper document to be
issued to them, and a registry made of it. An instrument was accordingly issued to the petitioners, signed by the governor and attested
by the secretary of state, by which the governor, in virtue of the authority vested in him, and in the name of the Mlexican nation, granted
"to them the occupation" of the land, subject to the measurement to
be made of common lands for the establishment of San Francisco, with
conditions against alienation, and for the occupation of the land within
a year, and for forfeiture in case the conditions were not complied with.
On this case:
TIeld, That the decree of the governor constituted only a naked license to
occupy the land provisionally ; and that the instrument issued pursuant
to the decree did not pass any title to or interest in the land; that this
license was a personal privilege of the parties, and upon their death did
not extend to their heirs; that a claim for land, resting upon a license
of this character, is not entitled to confirmation under the -act of Congress of March 3, 1851.

DE HAR0 v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
2. The term. tiulo, in the Spanish language, only means .the instrument
which is given as evidence of the right, interest, or estate conferred; it
does not indicate the measure of such right, 'interest, or estate; hence
it applies equally to papers which convey title in the usual acceptation
of the term, and to those which confer a mere right of occupancy.
APPEAL from the District Court for the Northern District
of California; in a claim for land, now of immense value,
originally presented to the board of land commissioners
established by the act of March 3, 1851. The case was thus:
In April,- 1844, Ramon and Francisco de Ilaro presented
a petition to the Mexican governor of the province of California for a grant of a tract of land, called the " Potrero of
San Francisco," situated near the mission of that name.
The petitioners were minors, and their petition was accompanied with the consent of their father that they might present it, and also his application to the local alealde for information as to the condition of the land solicited, and the
alcalde's reply thereto. The petition and accompanying
papers were referred to the secretary of state for his report
thereon. The secretary reported that the land was unoccupied; but, for reasons stated, he was of opinion that a provisional license to occupy it should be given to the petitioners. A decree was accordingly made pursuant to this suggestion, and was followed by the issue and delivery to the
petitioners of a formal document, ceding to them the occupation provisionally, subject to certain conditions. The following is a translation of the several papers mentioned:

[Petitionfor the Grant.]
EXCELLENT SENOR GOVERNOR OF BOTH

CALIFORNIAS:

We, Franciseo do Haro and Ramon do ilaro, in the name of
our family, Mexican citizens by birth, and residents of the exMission of San Franciscode Asis, represent to your Excellency,
with due submission, that inasmuch as we..have to remove the
share of cattle appertaining to our deceased mother out of the
rancho of the deceased Jos6 Antonio Sanchez, and as we have
in view to tame them, we entreat your Excellency to grant to
us in the exercise of your Excellency's powers, a small parcel of
land called Potrero de San Francisco,&c., because there is no

Dec. 1866.]

DE HAR0 V. UNITED STATES.

601

Statement of the case.
competent person to do it, according to the annexed sketch that
we submit to your Excellency; and as said parcel of land can
be inclosed, we intend to place on it the tamed cattle, because
of the small extent of the location occupied at present by the
cattle of our father, who has given us due permission to petition,
as we are under'the parental power and control. Therefore, we
entreat your Excellency to grant us this benefit, whereby we
shall receive favor and grace. We swear not to proceed moved
by malice, &c. This memorial has not been written on paper
of the corresponding stamp, there not being any here.
RAMON DE HARO,

FRANCISCO DE HARO.
SAN FRANCIsCO, April 12, 1844.
[Consent of the Father of the Petitioners.]
I, the undersigned, grant by the present document, to my
sons, Francisco and Ramon de Hare, the corresponding assent
enabling them (because they are minors) to solicit the Superior
Government of the Department the grant of the Potrero of the
ex-Mission of San Francisco de Asis, at present lying unoccupied, and represented in the sketch accompanying the petition.
The said Potrero being intended to be (if it should please the
Superior authority to grant it) for the benefit of their other
brothers as well as themselves, and to answer due ends I give
them this document in the aforementioned ex-Mission of San
Francisco de Asis, on the 12th day of April, 1844.
FRANCISCO DE HARO.
[Application of the Father of the Petitioners to the local Alcalde
for Information as to the Condition of the land solicited.]
TO THE HONORABLE THI,, ALCALDE OF FIRST NOMINATION OF SAN
FRANCISCO:

I, Francisco do Hare, a resident of this jurisdiction, in the
name of my sons, Francisco and Ramon, formally appear and
say that my sons aforementioned have received my assent to
solicit of the Superior Government of the Department the grant
of the Potrero that lies opposite the ex-Mission of San Francisco
do'Asis, which stands unoccupied, and the inclosures of which

DE JIARo V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

are thrown down, and lying on the g'ound ; and inasmuch as I
wish to remove the obstacles that may obstruct the speedy despatch of said petition, and since it must be referred thence to
this place for report and information, and I want to obviate this
delay, I therefore apply to you, in order that you be pleased
to reportas you may think convenient, in the subject of my solicitation.
Therefore, I entreat you to proceed in this matter according
to right, and to direct this memorial, written on common paper,
there not being here any of the corresponding stamped. Thus
I swear, &c.
FRANcIsco DE HARo.
SAN FRANCISCO,

April 13th, 1844

[Reply of the local Alcalde to the Applicationfor Information.]
SAN FRANCISCO DE Asis, April 13th, 1844.

In consideration of the reasons presented by the party who
solicits, I proceed to report about the location in request, declaring that up to this day there are no claimants of any kind, and
it is not occupied by any community or private individual.
G. tINKLEY.
[Order of Governor referring Petition and accompanying Papers to
the Secretary of State to report thereon.]
MONTEREY,

April 29th, 1844.

Let the secretary of state report on the same, and take the
necessary information.
MICHELTORCENA.

[The Report of the Secretary.]
MONTEREY, April 29th, 1844.
EXCELLENT SENOR GovERNOR:

The Mission of San Francisco no longer holds property of any
kind, and consequently the Potrero (or inclosed place for keeping
horses) in request is lying unoccupied, as -the soliciting parties
show by means of a report proceeding from the respective judge;
and in.smuch as there are to be assigned to said establishment, its

Dec. 1866.]

,DE

HARO V.

UNITED STATES..

603

Statement of the case.

corporationor common land (ejidos*), I am of opinion that in the
meanwhile the parties might occupy the plot of land, by virtue
of a provisional license of your Excellency, because no prejudice i,, caused thereby to the community, to any private individual.
.our Excelleney's own decision will doubtless be the most
proper one.
MANUEL JIMENO.
31owiFmly, April 30th, 1844.

In conformity.
MICHELTORENA.

[The Decree of the Governor upon the Petition and Secretary's
Report.]
MONTEREY, April 80th, 1844.

After examining the petition at the head of this proceeding, the
preceding reports, and whatever else was thought to the purpose,
in conformity with the laws and regulations on the subject, I declare
Francisco and'Ramon do Ilaro empowered to occupy provisionally
the piece of land called Potrero de San Francisco, to the extent
of half a square league, the boundaries to be the extremities of
the mouth of the Potrero, and the range of hillocks or highlands
environing it. Let the correpondingpatent be issued; let it be duly
entered, and let this information be communicated to the person in
chargeof said establishment.
[The Document issued by the Governor, and delivered to the Petitioners pursuant to the above decree.]
MANUEL MICHELTORENA, GENERAL OF BRIGADE IN THE MEXICAN
ARMY, ADJUTANT-GENERLAL OF THE STAFF OF THE SAME, COMMANDANT-GENERAL,

GOVERNOR

AND INSPECTOR OF THE DE-

PARTMENT OF CALIFORNIA:

Whereas, Francisco and Ramon de ilaro have solicited the
grant of the Potrero de San Francisco, so called, from the mouth
of the estuaries, together with the high land surrounding it, all
the necessary investigations having been made according as the
laws and regulations in the matter prescribed, by virtue of the
authority in me vested, I have thought proper, in the name of

the Mexican nation, to grant to them the occupation of the aforeThe word is elsewhere translated as "places for common resort," or
"pleasure grounds. "--REP.

604

DE HARO V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

mentioned Potrero, subject to the mensuration to be made of
the corpora'tion or common lands (ejidos) for the establishment
of San Francisco, and under the following conditions :*
1st. They shall have no power, under any consideration,to sell or
alienate it to the detriment of any of the proprietorsof the establishment of San Francisco.
2d. They shall not obstruct the paths, roads,and servitudes, using
it for culture and cattle they intend to introduce on it, but within
a year at the most it must be occupied.
3d. The parcel of land to which reference is made is of half a
square league, and if they should transgress any of these conditions,
they shall lose their right to this provisional grant, which is delivered
to the parties concerned for their security, and other ends.
Given in Monterey, on the first day of May, 1844.
MANUEL MICHELTORENA.

MANUEL JIMENO.

Under the last document the De Haros went into possession of the land, and occupied it for the pasturage of horses
and cattle until their death, which occurred in May, 1846.t
The land was inclosed on three sides by water, and a wall
bad been erected by the'priests of the mission on the fourth
side. This wall had gone to ruin, and the De Haros, after
obtaining their concession, repaired it. The land was not a
fertile tract, and was only fit for pasturage. The father of
the De IHaros succeeded to whatever interest they possessed
in the property at their death, and he occupied the land
afterwards ina similar manner; that is, for the pasturage of
horses and cattle, until his death, which took place in 1849.
His successors in interest were his children, six girls and
one son, all minors at the time. From these children the
property passed into the hands of numerous American citizens, for whose benefit, after our conquest, the claim was
This translation of the document is given in the record; elsewhere the
translation of the last four lines of the first paragraph is given as follows:
-"Ihave determined to permit 'the Messrs. Do Hare to occupy the beforementioned pasture-ground, subjecting themselves to the limits that shall be
prescribed to .the establishment of San Francisco."
t They were killed by the Americans during our war with Mexico.

Dec. 1866.]

D

HARO V. UNITED STATES.

605

Statement of the case.

presented for confirmation to the board of land commissioners, established by the act of March, 1851, to settle private
land-claims in California.
When the claim was pending before the land commissioners, two papers additional to those set out at pages 600-604
were produced and given in evidence; one of them purporting to be a grant in fee simple of the land to the Do Iaros,
signed by Governor Micheltorena, bearing date May 24,
1844, and the other purporting to be a grant of a similar
nature, signed by the same officer September 18, 1844. The
signature to both was genuine, but it was added after the
cession of the country to the United States. The instruments were antedated, but by whom they were prepared
was not shown.
The commission confirmed the claim, rejecting the paper
of May 24, 1844, as a forgery or antedated, but relying upon
the paper of September 18, 1844, though not without grave
doubts as to its genuineness.
On appeal to the District Court additional proof as to the
second paper was taken, and its real character exposed; and
it, as well as the first paper, was formally, abandoned by the
counsel of the claimants, and the claim for confirmation was
based solely on the provisional license and the proofs shwing an occupation under it.
The clause which usually appears in Mexican grants of
land in California, namely, that the party shall lose his
right to the land in case he violates the conditions attached,
was altered in the document of May 1, 1844, issued to the
Do Haros by the governor, to the words, "he shall lose his
right to this provisional concession" in case he violates the
conditions.
The document was mentioned in the list of grants made
by the secretary of state, Jimeno, known as Jimeno's Index,
and is noted in the record Toma de Razon. The entry in
this last book was as follows:
1"226. Don Francisco and Iamon llaro, on the 1st May.
1844.

606•

DE IIARo V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument in support of the claim.

"Title (titulo) delivered to them of the tract named El Potrero, in extent of one half league square."
. The District Court rejected the claim, holding that the
right conferred by the document in question was a mere
license to occupy the premises until the ejidos, or common
lands, should be measured.
In distinguishing the case from some others cited,. the
court, in its opinion, said:
"In this case the permission is given to occupy only until an assignment of the land to the pueblo is effected. The governor not
only indicates no willingness or intention to grant, but, in obedience to Jimeno's suggestion, he refuses to grant, and ex industria limits the concession to the permission to occupy land not
then used by the Mission."
From the decree of that court the case was now here on
the appeal of the claimants.
Messrs. M. Blair, P. A. Dick, J. B. Felton,.W. M. Stewart,
W. . Evarts, J. S. Black, and T. J. Coffey, for the appellants:
Before proceeding to argue this case, it is our duty to inform the court that there appear in the transcript of the
record several documents which are antedated,--not forged,
in the proper signification of the word, since the signatures
of the persons purporting to have. signed are genuine,-and
many depositions which, to-day, we know are full of untruths. Happily, the false is easily separated from the true;
and it is clear from the transcript that neither the original
grantees nor any one claiming through them are in any de-

gree to be blamed for the attempts which have been made
to impose upon the court. The original grantees, from
whom the claimants derive title, Ramon and Francisco do
Haro, were killed by the Americans in the war of 1846,
which led to the annexation of California to the United
States; long before there could have been any motive for
forgery or perjury in connection with this title. Their

Dec. 1866.]

DE HARO

V. UNITED STATES.

'607

Argument in support of the claim.

father, who was their heir, died in 1849; long prior to any
litigation relative to California land-titles. His successors in
interest were six minor girls and one minor son. From
these latter heirs the estate has passed into the hands of
numerous American citizens of California, who, until a recent period, shared in the prevailing ignorance of Spanish
laws and customs.
Almost every one who has heard of California knows
something of the history of the frauds which were practised
after land s, formerly unsalable, were rendered by American enterprise, and the wonderful growth of that coast, as
valuable as those which, in the Atlantic States, have been
cultivated and improved for ages. Such frauds were, in
many instances, perpetrated by the very officers who, under
Mexico, were intrusteid with the duty of granting lands;
and the identity of signature, the character of the signer,
and the utter confusion which prevailed in the archives of
the former government, rendered it easy to impose spurious
antedated documents, not only on purchasers, but on the bar
and the judiciary. Witnesses of California birth for years
obtained a livelihood by the fabrication of documents in the
Spanish idiom, and attempting to maintain them as genuine
by perjury; and it was not until Mr. Stanton, lately Attorney-General of the United States, visited that coast, and,
supported by the aid and power of the Federal government,
brought his great professional force and accomplishments to
the work of collating the various sources of evidence, and
of arranging them on principles of legal science, that it has
been possible, by even the most careful examination of witnesses and the most laborious research of counsel, to guard
the courts against being imposed upon by fraudulent and
spurious land-claims.
In the case at bar the claimants were imposed upon by two
forged grants and an antedated certificate of juridical possession. When they discovered their true character they.
openly abandoned them, and themselves announced the
frauds and imposition. That it was not for want of diligence upon the part of these claimants that they did not at

DE HArO V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

first discover the real character of those documents, and the
evidence given in support thereof, is evident from the fact
that the judges of the land. commission, assisted, as. they
were, by a special law agent, and with all the lights which
at that time could be furnished by the archives in the possession of the commission, founded their decision confirming the claim of the petitioners upon one of the forged documents; and it was naturally not a difficult task to impose
upon the present claimants, not one of whom could, by any
possibility, have known the true state of the case. It would
be unnecessary to make this preliminary statement to a California court, or to persons intimately acquainted with the
local history of that State. Such a tribunal would see, on
reading the transcript, that the claimants, in presenting
these spurious documents, were the victims, and, not the accomplices, of a fraud. On this remote Atlantic coast, where
much of the history of that region has the aspect of the fabulous, the explanation is necessary for ordinary readers of tle
reports, and will be pardoned by all.
In here presenting the case, the claimants do not invoke the
doctrine now settled, that where that which is genuine in the
grant can be distinguished from that which is fraudulent,
the genuine part will be upheld, and the false rejected. Denouncing the spurious wholly, they present documents of
unquestionable genuineness, and ask to have their rights
determined by those; and, as matter of right and justice,
that they shall not be prejudiced by skilful frauds practised
upon them; frauds which have heretofore deceived the most
cautious and able of the bar, and even the courts themselves.
The documents on which we rely are all given in the
statement of the case.
I. We might rest upon the opinion of the District Court,
which decided this case. The court states that there can be
no doubt of the genuineness of all these documents. It further states that the petitioners repaired the old wall which
had been erected around this tract by the priests; that they
placed their cattle and horses thereon, which were regularly

Dec. 1866.]

IDE ITARO V. UNITED STATES.

609

Argument in support of the claim.

attended by their herdsman and themselves, who resided at
the Mission. In construing the provisional grant in -this
case, the court states that it is a permission given [to the graniees]
to oecupy until an assignment of the land to the pueblo is effeeted.
The court has decided, then, that in 1844 the proper anthorities of Mexico granted the occupation of certain lands
to the persons under whom claimants derive title, until such
time as those lands should be measured 0)( set off as a part of the
ejidos of the estublishment of San Francisco, and subject to certain conditions.
It is not pretended that those lands ever have been measured off as part of the ejidos of that establisliment. It is now
certain and conceded that they never can be. No condition
of the grant has been violated. The authority of the governor to make such a grant is conceded, Now, this case admitted, how can a conditional grant, made by a government,
to occupy certain lands until a certain event"happens, and as
long as designated conditions are complied with, be determined excdpt in one of two ways: 1st, either by the happening of the event; or, 2d, by the non-fulfilment of some
one of the conditions? The district jidge has decided this
case upon the point that the grant is not a grant in fee, but
that it is simply the grant of a right to possess or occupy.
The opinion does not discuss at all the point which is the
only one in this case, and which is this : Conceding that the
Mexican authorities granted to the Do I-iros only a right to
possess and occupy this land, is not this right to possess and
occupy still subsisting so long as the event limiting that
right has not happened, and the conditions for the violation
of which that right was to be forfeited, have all been complied with ?
We say that it is; and that, until such event happens, or
the conditions are violated, such a grant vests in a grantee
an estate ;-whether called an estate in fee, or a lease, or a
license, makes no difference.
II. Turning from the opinion of the judge to the facts,
we find that in April, 1844, the youths De Iaro, Mexicans
by birth, petitioned the govern6r of the Californias for a
VOL. V.

39

DE

IIARO V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

small piece of land, for the purpose of placing thereon tame
cattle. The alcalde of San Francisco at the same time reported that there were no claimants for that land, and that
it was not occupied by any community or private individual.
The case shows that it was a small, barren neck of land, extending into the Bay of San Francisco, so worthless that'
nobody but two boys, just starting in life, ever thought of
reducing it to ownership, at a time when the most fertile lands
of California could be had by the league for the mere asking, and the government was grateful to the person who
would take and occupy them. It was the duty of the governor, under the colonizatica law of Mexico, to grant the
request of these petitioners, if there were no valid legal objections. The governor of California was bound to carry
out the colonization laws in their true spirit, and to make
grants of vacant lands to those persons who showed themsolves within their purview; and the right which he had to
grant lands under those laws, was not a right which he
could exercise or not at his caprice. Under the Mexican
system, the petitioner for vacant lands, who complied in all
respects with the colonization law, had a legal right to a
grant as much as a pre-emptioner under the American law
has a right to a patent. Governor Micheltorena, recognizing
this right on the part of the petitioners, refers the matter to
the secretary of state, for the purpose of ascertaining if any
reasons there were why the De Iaros should not receive a.
full title in fee to this land, as they had asked. For it is
evident from this that, if the secretary of state had found
no objection to the issue of a full, unconditional title, the
governor would have granted the De IHaros this land absolutely.
IAnd now analyze the objection which the secretary of
state did find to the making of an absolute grant. How far
would it naturally act upon the mind of the governor, and
to what extent would it naturally make him limit, qualify,
or modify his grant to the petitioners? Thesecretary re.
ports, in the first place, that the land "is lying unoccupied, as
the solicit ng parties show by means of a report proceeding

Dec. 1866.]

DE HARO

V. UNITED STATES.

611

Argument in support of the claim.

from the respective [proper] judge." Now, the proper judge,
Hlinckley, had certified that by unoccupied he meant "that
up to this clay there are no claimants of any kind, and it is
not occupied by any community or private individual." So
that we have the case of a small piece of land, unoccupied,
and unclaimed. But the secretary goes on to state, in substance, that it is possible that the Mission of San Francisco
may want these lands as cjidos. Ie does not say that they
will not select other lands as ejidos; nor does le pretend
that these lands were fit t6 be cjidos, as they were not; but
lie says that a possibility depending on two contingencies,
exists. Those contingencies were, first, whether any lands
should ever be assigned to' the said establishment; second,
whether, if any lands ever were assigned to that establishment these would be the lands selected. This bare possibility of this future contingent event was the sole objection
found by the proper authority to the full compliance with
the prayer of the petitioners.
The secretary evidently t]iought tht the prayer of the
petition should be complied with so far as it could be, subject to this objection. And he says that he is of opinion
" that in the meanwhile the parties might occupy the plot
of land by virtue of a provisional license." What do these
words in the 'meanwhile" signify, unless that until these
identical lands 'are assioned to the said establishment the
parties may remain in undisturbed possession of that land,
and that there is no reason for disturbing them in possession
until that contingency happens ?
The secretary continues, " because no prejudice is [would
be] caused thereby to the community or to any private individual."
Take, now, the objection of the secretary to the full granting of this land with his recommendation to the governor,
and is it not clear that the secretary said, in substance, to
the governor: " These are vacant and unclaimed lands; but
there is a possibility that a certain public corporation may
at some day require theni for public purposes. Were it not
for this possibility, I would recommend that a grant in fee

DE HARo v. UNITED STATES.

[Sul). Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

absolute be made to the petitioners. But, as this possi.
bility exists, I do recommend you to grant the lands, subject
only to the possibility of this contingency happening." In
other words, is it not clear that the single objection found by
the secretary, to the absolute granting of this land,'should
be the single limit or restriction which he recommended
should be put upon the grant?
II. Analyze this provisional grant, license, lease, or permission to occupy. Did the governor, in consequence of
this bare possibility of an event, which probably ngver would
happen, reject the prayer of the Do Hares, and refuse to
give them any title at all ? or did he grant the request of the
petitioners to the extent that this objectiop permitted him ?
He complied with the prayer of the petitioners, so far as he
could consistently with this objection and this possibiity.
In the first place, lie commences his decree, which precedes
the title, and in accordance with which the title issues, by
stating, that he makes it after examining,-in view of the
petition of the parties,-the reports that were made, and
whatever else. was necessary to be considered, in conformity
with the laws and regulations on the subject. So that whatever relief:, he granted, was granted in compliance with the
petition, the reports, and the colonization laws. That petition was for the fee absolutely. The reports were that the
fee could be granted absolutely were it not for the existence
of a bare possibility that the public might at some future
day want these lank for ejidos. The laws and regulations
on the subject, in conformity with which this decree was
made, prescribed that unclaimed and vacant lands ought to
be granted for just such purposes as this land was asked for,
and that is, for the purpose of raising stock-the chief employment of the nation, as the cattle raised was its chief
product. The petition, the reports, and the laws, are all
made a part of this decree by incorporation, and this decree
must be read by their light. Now, is it to be supposed that
cithei the governor or the secretary thought that these lands
should forever be taken out of the market and excluded
rrom the benef cial purposes of agriculture and commerce,

Dec. 1866.]

DE HARo

V. UNITED STATES.

613

Argument in support of the claim.

simply because they might by possibility be afterwards
wanted for a use for which they were then not necessary at
all ; a possibility so i'emote that it did not suggest itself to
the chief officer of the Pueblo of San Francisco, as is shown
by the fact that he makes no mention of it iin his report?
The corporation in question had not yet selected any cjidos,
nor was it by any means certain that it ever would. As a
matter of fact, it never did. Even if it did select ejidos, it
was almost an impossibility that it should select these
particular lands; hadly possible, we say, that this rocky,
barren, bleak tongue of land, which could under no cireninstances have had any value but for the marvelious developments of later years, could have been selected by a corporation as the ejidos; the exit, the breathing-places, the places
for common resort, the outskirts for the convenience of its
population, a population, as is historically known, that did
not exceed, at the time of the American occupation, three
hundred souls-that population residing, too, an average
distance of three miles from the contingent, possible ejidos.
Continuing our analysis of the decree of the governor, he
says :
"I declare Francisco and Ramon de Ilaro empowered to.occupy provisionally the piece of land called Potrero de San Francisco."
Now, what does the word "provisional," in connection with
occupation, mean? The word provisional evidently means
conditional-an occupation depending on something that is
foreseen (pro-visus) as a possibility; and what condition or
possibility has been foreseen, excepting the possibility of the
measurement of these ejidos? Why should the word "provisional" be used in this connection at all, unless'something
had been foreseen as a possibility which was to limit and
bound the right of occupation granted by this decree ? The
decree then proceeds as follows, using the language of the
translation in the record:
"Let the co 'responding patent be issued; let it be duly en.

DE HABO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Argument in support of the claim.

terod, antd lot this information be communicated to the person

in charge of said establishment."
The translation should be as follows:
"Let the corresponding title issue, and let registry be made
of the same, and let a communication be directed to the person
in charge of said establishment."
We would here call attention to both of the words, " corThe word " corresponding"
responding " and "title."
means corresponding with the views hereinbefore expressed;
that is to say, corresponding with the petition, the reports
thereupon, and the colonization laws; in other words, a title
corresponding with the facts, that a petition asks for the
land in fee, reports that declare that the land is vacant and
unclaimed, but possibly may be wanted for future public
uses, and with colonization laws prescribing that lands vacant
,and unclaimed, shall be given to any Mexican citizen who
will use them for ordinary industrial purposes. A title corresponding with all these facts is to issue. What is a title
au assurance of an estate in lands?
if it is not an evidence orn
This title issues directly from the government. It is made
under certain solemn laws fiamed 1br the encouragement of
settlement and immigration. Is it not absurd to suppose
that a solemn title like this can issue from a government,
clothed with all the formalities of law, and yet convey no
interest or estate ? The decree continues: " Let registry be
made of the same," the correct translation of the terms used;
that is, let this title which issues he recorded in the archives
of the government. For what purpose should a title which
conveys no title or interest be recorded in the archives of the
government? What information would be imparted to any
one by a registry, setting forth that a title had issued on a
certain day, which title had conveyed no interest or estate
in the lands therein described ? The Mexican archives were
kept for the purpose of carrying out the colonization laws.
The province of ;hese archives was to inform the world that
certain lands had ilready been granted, and by donsequence

Dec. 1866.]

DE IIARO v.

UNITED STATES.

Argument in support of the chim.

were no longer open to settlement, and no longer subject to
the disposition of the government. But can a reason be assigned why the government should insist on registering a
title which conveyed no rights, and which is not a title in
any sense of the word, when, according to the theory of the
opposite side, the lands would still be open to settlement,
and subject to be granted to any person who should ask fbr
them ?
The next clause in the decree is:
"Let a communication be directed to the person in charge of
such establishment."
A communication to what effect? Evidently that a title
to this land has been issued, and has been recorded in government archives, which title corresponded to a certain petition praying for the absolute fee of this land, and to reports
of the proper authorities to the effect that there was no objection to the granting the fee of this land, provided such
grants were made subject to being defeated in case these
lands should be measured off as ejidos of a certain corporation, and corresponding with certain laws declaring it to be
the policy of the nation that lands situated precisely as these
confissedly were, should be granted to such citizens as would
put theni to their proper uses.
The grant was issued in accordance with this decree. Observe the official language in which Micheltorena speaks of
himself:
"Manuel Micheltorena, General of Brigade in the Mexican
Army, Adjutant-General of the staff of the same, CommandantGeneral, Governor, and Inspector of the Department of California-"
This is the language of an officer who is about to act in
his official capacity, and to exercise powers conferred upon
him by the nation. As an inducement to the grant, the
governor sets forth the petition already analyzed, the taking of, the necessary proceedings and investigation according to the'colonization laws, and then continues:

616

DE,IIAtO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

"By virtue of the authority in me vested, I have thought
proper, in the name of the Mexican nation, to grant to them tho
occupation of the aforementioned potrero, subject to the mensuration (measurement) to be made of the corporation or common lands (ejidos) for the-establishment of San Francisco, and
under the following conditions-"
Here a concession of something is made in the name of
the Mexican nation. Some rights were conferred. What
were the rights thus conferred? Plainly the rights to occupy the potrero.
I-ow long was that occupation to continue, and subject to
what conditions ? In what manner could the rights be lost?
'he grant goes on to tell: In case these lands should be
measured off as the ejidos of San Francisco, these rights
would be deternained or diminished by their own limitation.
No other bound or limit to that right of occupation, excepting this possibility, that these lands would be required for a
public purpose, can be found. But there are certain conditions attached to this grant to be performed by the grantees,
a violation of which conditions will impose upon them the
penalty of losing the rights conferred by this instrument.
Rights, tlherefore, were conferred by this instrument-rights
which could be forfeited, provided certain conditions were
not complied with, and rights which could not be forfeited,
that is, could iot be taken away from the grantees so long
as these conditions were complied with.
Now, these conditions are, in the first place, that the
grantees shall not, by any title, sell or alienate the property
to the prejudice of any property the establishment of San
Francisco may have. In other words, the title was a title
that might be sold, provided that the sale or alienation
should not prevent the establishment of San Francisco
claiming the lands at -some future time, in case it wanted
them as ejidos. This meaning which we have giveli to this
condition will perhaps be disputed, and it is not necessary
for our argument to insist on the meaning which we have
given it, excepting by way of its illustration. The original

Dec. 1866.]

DE ITARO V. UNITED STATES.

617

Argument in support of the claim.

language is somewhat vague.
Translated literally, the
words of this condition mean, we submit, this:
" They shall not, by no title, sell it nor alienate it without prejudicing some property which the establishment of San Francisco may have."
Opposite counsel may contend that this is an absolute restriction on thie right to sell or alienate. But if this had
been the purpose of the grantor he would Lave stopped
after the words " alienate it;" for the words "without prejudicing some property which the establishment of San Francisco may have," would have been evidently superfluous.
The language "without prejudicing some property which
the establishm~ient of San Francisco may have," plainly contains the reasons why any restriction whatever is put on the
rigrht to alienate. And this reason would be entirely satisfied by giving to the grantees the right to sell or alienate,
provided their vendees should hold the land subject to the
same right of the measurement of the' ejidos to which it was
subjected in the hands of the original grantees. But, conceding that this was a restriction on the right to sell or alienate, when would such restriction cease? Obviously as soon
as it became impossible that any rights could ever exist to
be injured.
The second condition is as follows:
"They shall not obstruct the paths, roads, and servitudes,
using it for culture and cattle they intend to introduce on it;
but within a year, at the most, it must be occupied."
Is it not evident that this language is applicable to a longcontinuing estate-something that the grantees will be entitled to, even though they let eleven months and twenty-nine
days pass without availing themselves of it? This condition
is incompatible with the idea of an estate determinable at
the caprice of the grantor; and does it not become absurd
when used in a grant which, according to the ideas of opposite counsel, conveys no rights at all?
The third article ii the grant provides, that if the grantees

618

DE ItIARO v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the claim.

violate thI conditions, they will lose their right to this pro.
visional concession, which is delivered to the interested
parties for their security and other ends. How could a title
be security to them, unless it proved on its face that rightk
were thereby conveyed; that if they violate these conditions
they will lose their rights to this provisional concession?
What possible meaning can be given to a provision like this
on the theory of opposing counsel that either this grant conveyed no rights, or else that the rights which it did eonvby
were revocable at the will of the grantor? Is it not absurd
to speak of losing rights in consequence of the violation of
conditions, when there are no rights to lose; when, even if
the conditions are complied with, there are no rights to
retain ?
We have before said, that the object of recording Mexican
grants was to show to the world what lands, by having been
granted, were no longer open to settlement and the operation of the colonization laws. Jimeno himself, the secretary, who suggested this possibility of this land being
wanted as ejidos, as the only reason why they should not be
absolutely granted, kept an oficial index, the object of
which is clearly indicated by its title. It was called an
"Index of the Lands Adjudicated, anl Persons to whom they
have been Conceded ;" and all concessions of lands were regularly numbered in this index in the order in which they
were granted. Now, in this index, in its regular order, this
concession is inserted, under its proper number, in the same
manner in which any concession ulnder the colonization law
was. Still further: in the official book called the " Toma
de Razon," a book in which were set down the concession
of lands adjudicated by the Mexican government, this grant
was regularly recorded as at full grant of the land.
IV. If the concession did not confer upon the Do Haros
the right to occupy until this condition happened, what
other construction can be given to the instrument? Only
that of a license determinable at will. Supposing that to be
the construction, by what right? when? how? has that
license been revoked? The government of Mexico did not

Dec. 1866.]

619

DE HArO v. UNITED STATES.
Argument in support of the claim.

revoke it. On the contrary, the evidence shows that the
heirs of the original claimants were in undisputed possession of their tract-of land at the time of the treaty of Guadalupe Iidalgo, and the right to revoke such license, if it
ever existed, passed to the United States, to be exercised, if
at all, by the legislature, and not by the judiciary. For,
even conceding this right to be revocable at tile will of the
government, that will must be expressed, and cannot be implied. And how can it be argued that the courts of the United States have been clothed with the power to exercise it?
Congress, by two successive acts (the act of July 4, 1864,*
ratifying certain ordinances of the city, and the act of March
8, 1866t), so far from revoking any permission to occupy,
has granted these lands to the persons who had the riht of
occupancy. What stronger right of occupation can there
be than one resting upon an unrevoked license of the highest department of the government-the source or all titles?
B ut we do not concede that the instrument under which
we claim conferred only a license, revocable at the will of
the grantor. On tie contrary, we assert that such a construction would be incompatible with the history of the
grant, with its language, conditions, and evident meaning,
with the circumstances of the country, and of the inhabitants thereof, at the time it was made. It is matter of corn
mon knowledge, that when this grant was issued, California
was a sparsely settled country, without fences, with no obstr uction to 1revent the herds and flocks from roaming in an
untamed state over its whole surface. All the inhabitants
without grants might be said to be tenants-at-will of the governmer.t lands, and the government officers would have had
no more thought of disturbing them in the possession of the
ungranted portions, than our government now thinks of
expelling pre-emptors from the public lands. Certainly it
would never have occurred to any Mexican citizen to ask,
nor to any governor to grant, a right to use lands fbr so
long as the governor should so will. Even in the most
* 13 star at Large, 333,

5.

+14 1b. 4

620

DE HARo V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C1.

Argumcnt in support of the claim.

populous countries it would hardly suggest itself to any
private person to put a license to occupy land in writing,
provided such license were revocable -at will. Such a
license would naturally be granted by word of mouth or by
occupation without objection. But here, in the case of a
private individual granting the right to use the most valuable property at his own pleasure, it would be an evident absurdity to put such license in the form of a solemn document, clothe it with legal formalities, give notice thereof to
the world by registration, that he has done what simply allowed another to use his estate until he chooses to put him
off, it may be, the next hour; for a power of revocation at
will gives no fixed time to the licensee.
But if, on the other hand, it be admitted that this is something more thi a license to occupy at will, what other limit
or restriction on the right of occupancy can be stated than
the one we have suggested, namely, the selection, measurement, and appropriation of these lands as the ejidos of San
Francisco ? Clearly, none other can be obtained from the
grant itself Suppose that Congress should grant a certain
island to A. and his heirs, until it should be required ns a
site for a light-house, would it not be a grant of that island,
subject. to the title being defeated by the proper department
of the government selecting it for a light-house; in other
words, a grant on condition subsequent? And if, by any
convulsion of nature, it should be rendered impossible that
sueh island should be ever selected for 'a light-house site,
would not the title, as against all the world, become absolute in the grantees ? What difference would it make if the
language in which such a grant were expressed was, " The
land is granted," or "permission to use and occupy the land is
granted,"or " a license is given to use and occupy the land ?"
Would not the law, which construes words so as to get at
the real intent of the party using the same, see that the
grantor intended to give the grantee all the beneficial rights
of property in the subject of the grant, determinable in a
possible event?
The admeasurement, selection, and assignment of ejidos

Dec. 1866.]

DF HARO V. UNITED STATES.

621

Argument in support of the claim.

was a part of the incidents of establishing a pueblo peculiar
to Spanish and Mexican countries, a system quite at variance
with the manners, customs, and laws of Ameriea ns. It.is certain Congress has not decided, and will not decide, that the
lands petitioned for by the De Ifaros may be set apart as ejidos; and because the object of the reservation, or rather, the
right to assign them as cjidos, can never be exercised, are
we to be told we thereby have not the right to occupy ?
V. We pass now to the questions:
1st. Has the event taken place on the happening of Which
these rights of occupancy were, by the term of the grant, to
cease ?
2d. Has that event become impossible? If so, when and
in what manner?
As to the first query, we might rest upon the fact that the
government has not shown affirmatively that any such event
has happened; for, it is incumbent on one who asserts that
an estate is divested by the happening of a condition subsequent, to show affirmatively that such event has happened,
which causes the estate. to cease. But the ease shows that
these lands were never measured off as eJidos to the establishment of San Francisco, and that they were occupied by
the heirs of the Do Iaros up to the 0ession of California to
the United States, and even up to the present time.
To the second question We answer, that it became impossible for such event to happen the moment Califbrnia was
ceded to the United States, for the reason that then, with the
change of proprietorship of the territory, the objects and
purposes of the reservation, and the system of measuring
ejidos, ceased.
We go farther, and assert that, whereas, under the Mexican system, in pastoral countries it was deemed of paramount interest to the public that ejidos, or pleasure lands,
should be reserved for public use, under the American system the demands of commerce require that lands in the
vicinity of a seaport be appropriated to private business and
held in private proprietorship. Recognizing this policy, the
Congress of the United States has twice enacted that the

DE HARO V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lands forming the peninsula on which San Francisco now
stands, all of which, under Mexico, might possibly have become ejidos, should be granted in fee to the individuals,
who, as against all but the United States, had the right to
occupy the same to the extent of the actual right of occupa
tion. These acts recognize and establish the proposition that
these lands can never be used as ejidos. indeed, by such
legislation, Congress has deprived itself of the power to
provide for the selection and assignment thereof as ejidos;
and if these lands were now to be offered to the city of San
Francisco, to be used as ejidos, the corporate powers would
doubtless decline to accept them with that restriction; for,
while they would be useless for the common purposes of the
inhabitants of that city, the necessities of commerce demand
that they shall be owned by individuals, and devoted to the
use of trade, manufactures, &c.
[The learned counsel then made other points not necessary, in view of the grounds of the opinion, to be presented.]
Messrs. Stanbery, A. G., Carlisle, Wills, and Cushing, argued
the case very fully, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The case, on account of the large pecuniary value of the
land in controversy, has elicited great interest. We have
been aided by oral and written arguments of rare ability,
and the question of pueblo and mission rights, and the powers of the Mexican governors of Califbrnia over them, has
been much pressed upon our attention.
The construction, however, which we give to the espediente, conceded to be genuine, and on which the plaintiffs
must recover, if at all, supersedes the necessity of discussing
Ahe remaining questions, which in any other aspect of the
case, it would be important to do.
In order to asceitain the proper effect of the espediente
as an entire thing, it is necessary to analyze all its parts.
And with this analysis, the meaning of it, in our opinion,
cannot be mistaken. The petition presented by Francisco

Dec. 1866.]

DE

HARO V.

UNITED STATES.

62a

Opinion of the court.

and Ramon do Haro, residents of the ex-mission of San
Francisco, to Governor Micheltorena, asks for the grant of
the potrero, for the purpose of pasturing attle inherited
from their mother, which they were desirous of taming,
and had to remove out of the rancho where they then
were. The assent of their father was necessary to enable
them to solicit the grant, as they were minors, and it was
given.
According to the custom of the country, this petition was
referred to the secretary of the department to ascertain what
was the true state of facts, and report to the governor. The
informe, as it is called, or official report of Jimeno, who
was then secretary, as it was approved by the governor, and
formed the basis of his action, is of material assistance in
arriving at the true nature of' the right which was subsequently conceded. It is in these words, addressed to the
governor: " The mission of San Francisco has no longer any
property, and consequently the potrero which is petitioned
for is lying unoccupied, as the soliciting parties show by
means of a report proceeding from the respective judge; and
inasmuch as there are to be assigned to said establishment,
its corporation or common lands, I am of opinion, that, in
the meanwhile, the parties might occupy the plot of land, by
virtue of a provisional license of your excellency, because
no prejudice is caused thereby to the community (or) to any
private individual."
The significant fact appearing on the face of this document, is, that it ignores the very matter for which the De
Hares petitioned. They solicited a grant of the land pertaining to the potrero, but Jimeno, among the most intelligent of Mexican officials, knew, if the mission was secularized, there would remain an incipient pueblo, which might
embrace for its common lands, the piece of ground asked
for; and, thereibre, reported that the grant of it could not
be safely conceded, as it might prejudice the rights of the
community. But, as the inclosure was vacant, no harm
could result to the public, or any private individual, by its
temporary occupancy, and as the petitioners wanted very

324

DE

1fARO V.

UNITED STrATES.

Eksup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

much a place to pasture the cattle, which had fallen to them
in right of their deceased mother, he recommended that
they be permitted to occupy it, temporarily, and for their
security, the governor should issue to them a provisional
license.

The report was evidently predicated on the belief

that the grant of the land would interfere with the rights of
the mission or pueblo; but in the meantime, as they were
not ascertained, there could be no reasonable objection to
the Do flaros having the permissive occupation of the tract.
It nowhere appears an interest in the land was in any event
to be conceded, nor were any promises held out to the Do
Iaros, if the potrero should prove to be outside of the common lands, a title in fee, or any less title should be assured
to them. Jimeno recommended nothing more than a provisional licese, enabling the parties to occupy the land for
the occasion. The question arises, was Micheltorena's decision in conformity with Jimeno's recommendation ? The
material part of the order or decree of the governor, and
which was extended on the same day of the approval of the
report, is as follows: "I declare Francisco and Ramon do
Haro, empowered to occupy provisionally the piece of land
called Potrero de San Francisco to the extent of half a square
league."

"

Librese elcorrespondientedespacho"-" let the cor-

responding order or despatch be delivered; let it be duly
entered, and let this information be communicated to the
person in charge of said establishment." It is very clear
that this decree conforms to the recommendations of the report, and that Micheltorena did not intend to confer any
greater powers on the Do Haros than Jimeno advised.
There are no words used indicating an intention to give a
title, or to vary from the position taken in the informe. The
document to be issued, is one corresponding to the right
conferred, which was to occupy provisionally the potrero.
And the despatch which did issue for the protection of the
parties, conformed' to the terms of the decree, as will sufficiently appear by an examination of its essential provisions.
"I have determined," says the governor, "to permit the
Messrs. De Haro to occupy the beforerentioned pasture

Dec. 1866.]

DE IIARO

V. UNITED STATES.

625

Opinion of the court.

ground, subjecting themselves to the limits that shall be
prescribed to the establishment of San Francisco."
If language has any meaning, Micheltorena, intended by
this instrument to give nothing more than the power to occupy, and even this power was made expressly subject to the
paramount claim of the establishment of San Francisco.
To permit pasture-ground to be occupied, excludes all idea
that a grant of the land was contemplated. There are, absolutely,, no words indicating an intention to make a future
grant on the happening of any event whatever. But the
despatch goes further, and forbids the Do Haros to sell or
alien it, or do any act prejudicial to the property of the establishment, on penalty " of losing their right to this provisional concession." The prohibition against sale and aliena.
tion, by necessary intendment, refers to the right of occupancy, for no other right was to be conceded, and this right
was to cease, if the fundamental conditions attached to "the
provisional concession," delivered to the Do Haros for their
protection, were violated. If they were to lose their right
to the land, as is contended, why were the words appropriate
to a concession of the land, which an inspection of the original document shows were written in it, stricken out, and
the phrase "they shall lose their right to this provisional
concession," substituted in their stead? It is clear enough,
that Jimeno, who was in the habit of writing grants for
land, inadvertently pursued the usual form for such grants,
but recovering himself, wrote the words appropriate to confer a license to occupy, which he had recommended and the
governor approved.
It surely cannot need more evidence to derionstrate that
the Mexican officials intended the espediente to be what it
is, a mere license to occupy, not permanently, but "in the
meantime," until the ejidos were measured. It is impossible to divest the mind of the conviction, that Micheltorena
and Jimeno, either believed they had not the power to grant
the potrero, or, if they had, the circumstances of the mission
forbade its exercise, and conceded a permissive occupation,
not of right, but by way of grace and favor.
VOL. v.

40

Dx IHARO V.

UNITED

SIATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

But, it is said, the occupation thus permitted could ripen
into a grant in fee, or some lesser estate, in case the potrero
was not included within the admeasurement of the ejidos.
Not so, however, for there are in the title-papers no words
granting the tract of land, either absolutely or on condition,
provisionally or otherwise; nor any words by which any
estate or interest in it can be raised by implication. The
power conferred, resembles a grant in no particular, but is
a bare, naked license, and to be governed by the rules' of law
applicable to such a power.
But, the authority of the " Toma de Razon" is invoked to
bolster up the claim of title, because in the entry qf this
case, the word " titulo " is used.
It is proper to remark that the nature and eff-bet of an espedienle, when it is clearly ascertainable, from contemporaneous and official construction, cannot be defeated by an entry in the Toma de Razon. The office of the Toma de Razon
is to support, not destroy the espediente. In this case, however, the entry did not mistake the character of the transaction, for the Spanish word "titulo" does not indicate the
measure of the right, interest, or estate of the party. "It
means," according to Spanish authority,* "the cause in virtue
of which anything is possessed, and the instrument by which
the right is accredited," and in Spain and Mexico there are
a class of titles (titulos), not translative of property. Therefore, Jimeno did not err in characterizing the instrument
given to the Dc Hares as a "titulo," for the word "titulo"
is a nomen generalissirum, to be applied as well to titlepapers, which convey title, in the usual acceptation of the
term, as to those which confer a mere right of occupancy.
And the claimants can derive no help from the use of the
word " concession," for a distinguished Spanish scholar
(Escriche), gives this definition of it: "Whatsoever is
granted as favor or reward, as the privileges granted by the
prince." As a matter of favor, Micheltorena conceded to
the De Hares, the privilege of temporarily occupying the
Escriche.

Dec. 1866.]

DE

HAR0O V. UNITED STATES.

627

Opinion of the court.

potrero in question. There was no contract to do more, nor
the semblance of one.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied,
from a careful examination of this Mexican record, that the
only thing conferred, or intended to be conferred, on the De
Haros, was a provisional.or temporary license of occupation,
which the governor was willing should be in writing, instead
of by parol, to enable the licensees to enjoy their possession
with greater security. And this leads us to a consideration
of the law on the subject of licenses. If the license in question has been terminated, there is an end to this case, and it
is wholly lmiecessary to consider the other questions which
have been discussed at the bar.
There is a clear distinction between the effect of a license
to enter lands, uncoupled with an interest, and a grant. A
grant passes some estate of greater or less degree, must be
in writing, and is irrevocable, unless it contains words of
revocation ; whereas a license is a personal privilege, can be
conferred by parol or in writing, conveys no estate or interest, and is revocable at the pleasure of the party making if.
There are also other incidents attaching to a license. It is an
authority to do a lawful act, which, without it, would be unlawful, and while it remains unrevoked is a justification for
the acts which it authorizes to be done. It ceases with the
death of either party, and cannot be transferred or alienated
Dy the licensee, because it is a personal matter, and is limited
to the original parties to it. A sale of the lands by the owner
instantly works its revocation, and in no sense is it property
descendible to heirs. These are familiar and well-established
principles of law, hardly requiring a citation of authorities
for their vindication; but if they are needed, they will be
found collected in the notes to 2d Hare & Wallace's American Leading Cases, commencing on page 376.* We are not
aware of any difference between the civil and common law
on this subject.
Testing this case by these rules of law, is not the license
* Or in the last edition (4th), p. 786, notes to Prince v, Case and Rerick v.

Kern.-RzP.

628

DE HARO v. UNITED SIATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

given by Micheltorena ended? The De Haros died in 1846,
while the Mexican government owned California, and with
their death the licen'se terminated. As long as they were in
full life they had a valid authority to enter upon the potrero
and pasture their cattle, but, as the privilege was a personal
one, it ceased when they died, and did not extend to their
heirs. The continued possession by the father, and those
under him, estops no one-certainly not a sovereign power
ke Mexico or the United States. The representatives of
the Dc Haros could, doubtless, lawfully enter upon the potrero in order to remove the property left there, but their
authority extended no furth r.
It is argued, the license was to last until the ejidos were
measured, and therefore is not determinable until that event
occurs. This argument has no force, unless it was the intention of Micheltorena to give some interest in the land to the
De Haros when the ejidos were assigned, if they did not
embrace the potrero; but we have seen that he had no such
intention. He promised nothing; he did not say what he
would do or not do when the common lands were measured,
but told the De Haros, meanwhile, until they are measured,
you can occupy the potrero for a pasture-ground for your
cattle. This was not a contract on consideration that they
and their heirs should have the right of occupancy until the
happening of this event. It might never happen; and what
was intended as a mere license would be thus converted into
a grant. Micheltorena could have lawfully ousted the Do
Hros from the possession at any time befbre their death,
because the privilege conferred wvas at all times within his
control, and liable to be countermanded.
The Do Haros, so to speak, were tenants-at-will, and held
at the sufferance of the Mexican authorities. They could
not have been deceived as to the nature of the right conferred, for they repaired to Monterey to get the land in full
property, and returned to San Francisco with only a provis.
tonal license to pasture their cattle on it. The term provisional excludes the idea of permanency; it means some.
thing temporary and for the occasion.

Dec. 1866.]

DE HARO

V.

UNITED STATES.

629

Opinion of the court.

It may be true that Micheltorena, when lie conceded to
the De Haros the privilege of pasturing cattle on the potrero, did not intend to revoke it, if the conditions were observed, until the ejidos were measured, and that it was so
understood by them; but this can, in no aspect of the case,
alter the relations of the parties to this suit. It was a personal privilege conceded to the De Haros alone, and with
their death it ceased. The license itself not only contains
no words extending it beyond the lives of the parties, but
all the circumstances of the case exclude the idea that the
governor intended to pass any interest descendible to heirs.
If this is so, this claim, if presented to the Mexican government, would have been rejected, and is, therefore, not
entitled to confirmation, under the act of Congress, against
the United States.
In concluding this opinion, we are sorry to have to state
that this record is not a clean one. It is tainted with fraud
and forgery. When this claim was originally pressed for
confirmation, it was on title-papers conveying a grant of the
land, which are now withdrawn as being forgeries. If the
espediente on which the claim is now rested carried the title
to the property, why substitute forged grants? A crime is
never committed without an adequate motive, and it is clear
that, in the opinion of the party who did it, the genuine espediente fell short of a concession of the potrero in full
property.
We are gratified, on a consideration of the evidence, to
learn that the young Do Haros, during the short period they
occupied the potrero, did not mistake the naturb of the
power conferred on them. They did not add to the value
of the land by improvements, and left nothing on it bi~t
what could be easily removed and made available to their
heirs.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD dissented.

