Dec. 1864.]

HIaUERAS V. UNITED STATES.

827

Syllabus.

The litigation between these parties has consumed such
a large proportion of the ime of this court, and the close of
the term is so near at hand, with the pressure of matters'of
more importance upon us, that we cannot enter into a statemerit of the reasoning which governs our action in the
present motion. It is sufficienit to say that we are satisfied
that the petitioner has presented a case calling for the exercise of the supervisory power of this court over the Circuit
Court, which can only be made effectual by a writ of mandamus. A writ of mandamus will therefore issue from this
court, directed to the judges of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Wisconsin, commanding
them to proceed with the execution of the order of that
court of July 18, 1865.

HIGUEnAS V. UNITED STATES.*
1. Land claims arising by virtue of a ight or title derived from the Spanish or Mexican governmeft are required to be. presented to the land
commissioners for adjudication.
2. Final decrees in such cases, whether made by the commissioners or by
the District Court, unless an appeal is taken, are conclusive between
the United States and the claimants.
8. Confirmation alone, however, did not, under the original act, confer
upon the claimant a right to a patent; but it was made the duty of the
surveyor-general, as a condition to the granting of the same, to cause
such claim, if finally confirmed, to be accurately surveyed, and to furnish plats of the same to the Land Office.
4. But the second section of the subsequent act conferred jurisdiction upon
the District Court to order such surveys to be returned into, that court
for examination.
5. Authority is also conferred upon the court to set the survey aside and
annul the same, or to correct and modify it.
8. Parties may except to any such order or decree, and appeal from the
same ; but the questions for decision het'e are those only which are presented in the exceptions.
* For the syllabus to this case, adjudged some terms since in the reporter's absence, he is indebted to the courtesy of the learned Justice by whom
%heopinion of the court was delivered.

828

HIUERAS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
7. Such an appeal does not open the decree of confirmation for revision, because that decree is the foundation of the survey.
8. Unless the decree of confirmation is a valid decree, there cannot be a
valid survey, as the latter is founded upon the former.
9. Mlexican governors made three kinds of grants or concessions of vacant
public lands. 1. Grants by specific boundaries, where the donee is entitled to the entire tract described. 2. Gftants by quantity, as of one
or more leagues of land situated jn a larger tract, and usually described
by out-boundaries, where the donee is entitled to the quantity speQified,
and no more. 3. Grants of a certain place or rancho by some particular name, either with or without specific boundaries, where the donee
is entitled to the tract according to the boundaries, if given ; and if not,
according to the limits of the possession and settlement.
10. Boundaries of the claim in this case are given in the decree of confirmation; and as neither party appealed from that decree, they are not now
at liberty to question its correctness or to ask for any modification of
its terms.
11. Construction of the decree must be governed by the ordinary rules of the
common law, as it is a decree of a Federal court sitting in a State where
the common law prevails.
12. Terms of the decree, taken as a whole, are sufficiently definite and complete to secure to the claimants all their legal rights.
13. Errors exist, undoubtedly, in the courses specified in the decree; but the
general rule in such cases is, that courses and distances must give place
to monuments and physical boundaries described in the grant; and
when that rule is applied in the ease, there is no such uncertainty as is
supposed.
14. First course is from the back of the principal house to the lone tree,
which is not the subject of dispute. Second course is from the lone
tree, along the sierra, to the adjoining rancho. Third course runs westwardly along the northern line of that rancho to the arroyo, which is
well known. Fourth course runs up the arroyo to the estuary, and
from that point to the place of beginning.
16. Correct, as above, the courses of the described lines by the monuments
given, as should be done, and the boundaries of the tract are specific
and complete, and the survey and decree describe the same land.
APPEAL

from the District Court for Northern California.

Mr. Bradley, for the appellants; Mr. Willes, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of California,
confirming the survey of a private land claim. Appeals in

Dec. 1864.]

HIUERAS V. UNITED STATE9.
Opinion of the court.

such cases are authorized by the fifth section of the act of
the fourteenth of June, 1860, if applied for within six months
after the date of the decree, and it is under that special provision that the present controversy is now before the court.
I. 1. Original claimant acquired a possessory right to the
tract of land situate in Santa Clara County, California, and
called Tularcitos, on the fourth of October, 1821, by virtue
of a decree of concession of that date made to him by the
governor of the Territory. Directions of the decree of concession were that the applicant for the tract should be put
in possession of the same by the commissioner of San Jos6,
in whose jurisdiction the land was situated. Measurements
were to be made and monuments fixed on the four sides of
the tract, and the officer designated to perform the duty was
to make return of his doings to the government. Pursuant
to those directions the commissioner attended to the duty
assigned to him and made his return, in which lie states
that he went upon the tract and gave possession to the donee, designating the number of varas allowed on each of the
four sides of the concession.
Claim to a portion of the tract it seems was subsequently
made by an' adjoining proprietor, and on the seventeenth
day of October, 1835, the original claimant presented to the
governor of the Territory a second petition, in which he requested that the boundaries of the concession to him might
be enlarged, and that his title to the former concession might
be confirmed. He based the claim in the second application
chiefly upon two grounds: 1. That he had been in the occupation of the tract for more than twelve years. 2. That a
part of the tract embraced in the decree of concession had
been granted to another person.
2: Second decree of concessioh granted the augmentation,
as requested, and directed that the same should be considered as annexed to the former concession. Annexed to the
petition was a diseno describing the entire tract, which appears to have been made in strict conformity to the colonization laws. Remark should be made that the first concession did not profess to grant anything more than a possessory

830

HIGUERAS V.

[Sup. Ct

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

right, and the second espediente is without the formal title,
but there can be no doubt that the several documents are
sufficient to give to the donee an inchoate right to the tract,
within the meaning of the treaty of cession and the act of
Congress subsequently passed to carry the provisions of the
treaty into effect.*
Such also were the views of the land commissioners appointed under that act of Congress, as appears by their decree confirming the claim.
Description of the tract as given in the decree of confirmation is that it is situated in Santa Clara County and is the
same land formerly occupied by Jos4 Higuera, now deceased,
and is'known by the name of Los Tularcitos. Boundaries
given in the decree 91e as follows: Beginning at the back
side of the principal house on said rancho, standing at the
foot of the hill, and running thence northwardly to a lone
tree on the top of the sierra (which tree is known as a landmark), thence east along the sierra to the line of the land
knowni as the rancho of Jos6 Maria Alviso, thenre southerly
along the west line of said Alviso's rancho till it intersects
the Arroyo de ]a Penctencia, thence up said arroyo to an estuary, and from that point to the place of beginning.
3. Appeal was duly taken from that decree by the United
States, but the appeal, on the motion of the district attorney,
was subsequeptly dismissed, and on his motion also it was
ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the claimants have leave
to proceed under the decree as a final decree in their favor.
No appeal was subsequently taken, and the decree, therefore, became and is the final decree in the case. Final decrees in such cases, if regularly made and duly entered in
the record, are conclusive between the United States and
the claimants, unless an appeal is seasonably taken from the
decree according to law.t
4. Confirmation alone, however, did not, under that act,
confer upon the claimant a right'to a patent, but it was made
the duty of the surveyor-general to cause all private lanl
* 9 Star. at Large, 631-2.

tId.

632,

Dec. 1864.]

HiGUERAS V. UNITED STATES.

831

Opinion of the court.

claims finally confirmed to be accurately surveyed, and to
furnish plats of the same; and the provision was that a patent should issue to the'claimant upon his presenting to the
General Land Office an authentic certificate of such confirmation and a plat or survey of the land, duly certified and
approved by the surveyor-general.
Such was the legal effect of a final confirmation of a private land claim under the act of Congress first passed to
carry the treaty of cession into efict, and such also was the
legal course of proceeding under that act to procure a patent.
5. But authority was conferred upon the District Courts
for the Northern and Southern Districts of California, under
the second section of the subsequent act, to which reference
has been made, upon the application of any party interested,
to make an order requiring any survey of a private land
claim, within their respective districts, to be returned into
such court for examination and adjudication; and if, upon
de hearing of the allegations and proofs, the court should
be of opinion that the survey and location were erroneous,
the court, in that event, was authorized to set it aside and
annul the same, or to correct and modify it. Proofs are to
be taken and the parties have a right to be heard, and thereupon the court is required "to render judgment thereon."
Survey of the tract in this case was made by the surveyorgeneral, and on the seventh day of June, 1859, the court, on
motion of the claimants, made an order directing the plat
of the survey to be returned into court. Whereupon the
claimants filed three exceptions to the survey, which in subStance and effect are as follows: 1. That the survey was not
made in accordance with the decree of confirmation. 2.
That according to the decree of confirmation and the evidence in the case, the northern and southern lines of the
survey should be extended easterly to the sierra or main
range of mountains, so as to include the tract of country
known as the Valley of the Calaveras. 3. That the northern
line, extending from the estuary to the Calera Creek, should
be a straight line instead of an angle, as represented on the
plat. Testimony was taken, but before the hearing the

HIGUERAS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

claimants filed an additional exception, describing the tract
of country mentioned in the second exception, and claiming
that the lines of the survey should be extended as therein
specified, so as to embrace that whole tract. Additional
testimony was then taken and the parties were heard, and
after the hearing the several exceptions were overruled, and
a decree entered that the " survey be, and the same is hereby confirmed." Claimants asked for a rehearing, which was
granted, but the court refused to modify the decree, and ordered that it stand as the final decree in the cause. Present
appeal is from that decree, and the questions for decision
are those presented in the exce)tions to the survey and location, as the same were filed by the claimants.
II. 1. Appellants insist, as a primary proposition, that the
boundaries of the tract, as given in the decree, are so indefinite and incongruous that the decree cannot be carried into
effect, and consequently that they have a right in this proceeding to prove the extent of the tract as formerly occupied
by the original claimant, so that the court may determine the
true location and correct the errors in the decree of confirmation. But no such authority is to be fbund in the act conferring jurisdiction over the surveys of private land claims,
nor in any other act of Congress upon that subject. Survey is required of' all private land claims final]' confirmed.
Such claims are required to be accurately surveyed, which is
equivalent to a requirement that the survey, where the decree of confirmation is by metes and bounds, shall conform
to the decree.
Private land claims, such as are recognized in that act, are
those which arise by virtue of a right or title derived from
the Spanish or Mexican government. Every person claiming such lands in California was required topresent his
claim to the lhnd commissioners for adjudication, and the
provision was that all land the claims to which should be
finally decided to be invalid, and all lands the claims to
which should not have been presented to the commissioners
within two years from the date of the act, should be decreed,
held, and considered as part of the public domain.

Dec. 1864.]

HIGJERAS V. UNITED STATES.

833

Opinion of the court.

2. Confirmed claims onlg were required under that act to
be surveyed, and it is only the surveys of such claims that
the District Court, under the second section of the subsequent act, is authorized to order into court for examination
arid adjudication. Confirmation must precede the survey
which is made subject to such an order, and if the decree of
confirmation is so indefinite and incongruous that it cannot
be execIted, then it is void and of no effect, and the claim to
the land stands upon the same footing in legal contemplation
as a claim which was never presented to the commissioners
for adjudication. Nothing can be plainer than the proposition that a decree of confirmation. under that act, which is in
itself void, cannot be the proper foundation of a legal survey
and location of the claim; and if not then, it is equally clear
that the survey of the claim, although made by the surveyorgeneral, and ordered into the District Court, cannot confer
any jurisdiction upon tho court to determine the boundaries
of the claim. Assume, therefore, that the proposition under
consideration is correct, and it necessarily follows that the
claimants have no legal right whatever to any portion of the
tract.
3. Jurisdiction over the " right or title" of the. claimant
is conferred upon the commissioners, under the act entitled
''An act to ascertain and settle private land claims," but the
jurisdiction over the surveys of the same, after the plat is
certified and .approved by the surveyor-general, is conferred
upon the District Court under the subsequent act, and the
two things are wholly distinct and cannot be blended, nor
can the one be subslituted for the other.
4. But the court does not, by any means, intend to be understood as acceding to the proposition that the decree of
confirmation in this case is either void or voidable. On the
contrary, it is clear,' we think, that the decree, when properly understood, is not only free from any question as to its
validity, but is also of a character to secure to the claimants all their right and title in the premises.
5. Concessions or grants of land by Mexican. governors
VOL. v.

53

HIGUERAS

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

were of three kinds, and in some respects the rules applicable to their construction are widely different. They were
concessions or grants by specific boundaries, where, of
course, the donee is entitled to the entire tract or concession, or grants by quantity, as of one or more leagues of
land situate at some designated place, or within a larger
tract described by what are called out-boundaries, where the
donee is entitled to the quantity specified and no more, or
gralnts or concessions of a certain place or rancho by some
particular name, either with or Without specific boundaries,
where the donee is entitled to the tract according to the
boundaries, if boundaries are given, and if not, according to
the extent and limits of the tract or rancho as shown by the
proofs of settlement and possession.
Confessedly, the concession in this case, as originally
made, was of the latter class, but the questions presented
for decision under the exceptions to the survey have respect
to the decree of confirmation, and not to the concession or
concessions as made by the governor.
III. 1. The decree of confirmation gives the boundaries
of the claim, and as neither of the parties appealed from it,
they are not at liberty to question its correctness or ask for
any modification of its terms. Construction of the decree
must be governed by the ordinary rules of the common law,
as it is the decree of a Federal court sitting in a State where
the common law prevails. Most or all of the courses given
in the decree are undoubtedly erroneous; but there is very
little difficulty in ascertaining the cause of the error,- and
still less in the conclusion that the errors in that behalf
ought not to-control the questions under consideration, nor
be suffered to affect or prejudice the rights of either party.
Unlike what is usually to be seen in Mexican espedientes,
it appears in this case that two of the disenos or maps of the
tract exhibited in the espedientes, contain on their face a delineation, as on a card, of the four cardinal and other princi.pal points of the compass. Referring to the delineation, it
will be seen that north, as there delineated, is in the place of
northwest, and that the corresponding error occurs througb

Dec. 1864.]

HIG'.TERAS V.

UNITED STATES.

835

Opinion of the court.

out the delineation. Make the correction suggested, and the
representation of the points of compass would be substantially correct in all respects; or, in other words, reud north
for northwest and northeast -for north, and there would be
little or no incongruity between the monuments given in the
decree and the courses as therein laid down. Mistakes of a
like character were made by the Mexican witnesses in their
description of the tract and its boundaries. They knew the
monuments designated as marking the boundaries of the
done's possession, but they do not profess to have had any
positive knowledge as to the true course from one monument to another. Language of the decree is so nearly the
same as that employed by one or more of the witnesses as to
justfy the conclusion that the commissioners, in framing the
decree, borrowed the terms of the description from the language employed by the witnesses.
2. Appellants do not deny that the place of beginning is
correct, nor do they controvert the fact that the first cburse
is from the back side of the principal house to a lone tree on
the top of the sierra, which is known as a landmark. The
course, as stated by the witnesses and given in the decree, is
northwardly, but the termini of the line being given and the
respective monuments marking the line admitted, it is clear
that the monuments must govern. Measurements of distances and the direction of lines in reference to the points
of the compass mentioned in a deed, may be made a part
of the description of the premises intended to be granted,
and in some cases, where the lines are so short as evidently
to be susceptible of entire accuracy in their measurement,
-and are defined in such a manner as to indicate an exercise
of care in describing the premises, such a description is regarded with great confidence as a means of ascertaining
what is intended to be conveyed. But ordinarily surveys
are so loosely made, and so liable to be inaccurate, especially
when made in rough or uneven land or forests, that the
courses and distances given in the instrument are regarded
as more or less uncertain, and always give place, in questions
of doubt or discrepancy, to known monuments and bounda-

IIIGUERAS

V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ries referred to as identifying the land.* Such monuments
may be either natural or artificial objects, such as rivers,
streams, springs, stakes, marked trees, fences, or buildings.t
3. Second line mentioned in the decree is from the lone
tree.along the sierra to the line of the land known as the
rancho of Jos6 Maria Alviso, who was the southern colindante of the original claimant. Three objections are assigned by the claimants to the second line in the decree as
showing that it is unreliable and cannot be exectted. First
objection.is that the course from the lone tree along the
sierra, as described in the decree, is east instead of southeast
as it should be, if the views of the appellees are correct.
Beyond doubt, the fact is as suggested, but the objection is
entitled to no weight, for the same reasons as those assigned
in respect to the error in the described course of the first
line. Both of the monuments, to wit: the lone tree and
the sierra, are fully proved, and the appellants are obliged
to coutq'ede that the lone tree and sierra of the survey are the
same as those of the decree. They do not attack the survey
as a departure from the decree, but insist that the decree is
so indefinite and incongruous that it cannot be executed,
and that the survey is contrary to the actual location of the
land granted to the donee, as shown by the evidence in the
case. Impliedly the proposition admits that if the decree
can be executed the appellees must prevail, and so is the
course of the argument.

Appellants contend, in the next place, that the second line,
that is, the line from the lone tree along the sierra, is unreliable, because they insist that the evidence shows that th
lone tree is not a corner boundary. Present inquiry, however, is how it was viewed by the commissioners when they
framed the decree, and not what they might or ought to
* Washburn on Real Property (2d ed.), 673; Preston's Heirs v. Bowman.
6 Wheaton. 582; Marshall v. Currie, 4 Cranch, 176; Farrington v. Ridgel,
4 Maine, 286; Howe v. Bass, 2 Massachusetts, 280; Bosworth v. Sturtevant
6 Cushing, 392; Jackson v. Ives, 9 Cowen, 661.
t Newsom v. Prior, 7 Wheaton, 10; Rix v. Johnson, 5 New Hampshire

Dec. 1864.]

lireUERAS V. UNITED STATES.

837

Opinion of the court.

have decided, if the evidence since taken had been before
them at that time. Looking at the language of the decree
it is beyond a doubt that the commissioners, in framing it,
regarded the lone tree as a corner boundary, that is, as the
termination of the first line and as the beginning of the
second; so that the second objection of the appellants is unfounded in fact.
Third objection is that the second line, if run from the
lone tree along the sierra, would not intersect the line of
the rancho mentioned in the decree. But the objection is
purely a technical one, and as such is entitled to no weight.
Alviso's land did not, it is true, extend quite to the sierra,
or if' it did his northern line, as exhibited on the diseilos in
the record, was not so delineated. Protract the line in the
same direction to the sierra, and the whole foundation of
the objection is gone. The intention of the decree is obvious, and there can be no doubt that the surveyor-general
was right in regarding that supposed defect as supplied by
necessary implication from the language of the decree. He
terminated the second line at the point where the northern
line of the other rancho, if protracted as the commissioners
assumed, 'Would strike the sierra, and in adopting that view,
it is clear that he carried into effect the intention of the coinmissioners.
4. Residue of the decree is without objection, except that
the third line has the corresponding error in the course of
the line. Substance of the objection is that the course is
described as southerly instead of westwardly, as assumed by
the appellan'ts, and as running along the west line of the
other rancho instead of along the northern line of the same,
as it should have been if their theory is correct. Obviously,
both of these mistakes are of the same character as those
previously considered in the description of the first and second lines, and they may be answered in the same way, as
the evidenec is full to the point that the location of the
rancho referred to was well known. Evidence shows that
the proprietor of that rancho and the original claimant at
one time ha I a controversy in' respect to that line, but that

HIGUERAS V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the same was satisfactorily adjusted under Mexican rulebe
fore the second concession was made to the donee. When
reference, therefore, was made to that rancho, it was to one
well known, and the termination of the line was at the Ar
royo de la Penetencia, which was equally well known and
established.
5. Remaining portion of the description as given in the
decree is as follows: Thence up the arroyo to an estuar,,
and from that point to the place of beginning. Correct the
description of the courses of the lines, or strike out that
portion of the description, and the boundaries of the tract
are complete and specific, and the survey and the decree
describe -the same tract of land. Unless the views of the
claimants are misunderstood, they do not deny that fact; and
if they do, it is a sufficient answer to the denial, in view of
the explanations already given, to say that in the judgment
of this court the just and legal conclusion is the other way.
6. Having come to the conclusion that the rights of the
appellants are fully defined in the decree of the commissioners, and that the survey in question corresponds with that
decree, we do not think it necessary to enter into any extended examination of the evidence as to the extent-of the
tract embraced in the original concessions as presented to
the land commissioners. All those matters were concluded
by the decree, and the only question now is whether the
decree of the commissioners is fairly carried into effect by
the snrvey and decree of the District Court, and our conclusion upon that question is that the complaints of the appellants are withoit any foundation. While such is our
conclusion, we still think it proper to say that we havelooked
into the evidence in tlo case with care, and have no hesitation in saying that if the whole controversy was open, as
is supposed by the claimants, we should be constrained to
ooncur in the views of the district judge, that the great
weight of the evidence shows that the survey describes the
tri e location and boundaries of the tract.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

