Dec. 1866.]

PERVEAR v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

475

Syllabus.

such licenses, and imposing penalties for not taking out and
paying for them, are not contrary to the Constitution or to
public policy.
4. That the provisions in the act of 1866 for the imposing
of special taxes, in lieu of requiring payment for licenses,
removes whatever ambiguity existed in the previous laws,
and are in harmony with the Constitution and public policy.
5. That the recognition by the acts of Congress of the
power and right of the States to tax, control, or regulate any
business carried on within its limits, is entirely consistent
vith an intention on the part of Congress to tax such business for National purposes.
It follows: That in the case from the Northern District of
New York, the question certified must be answered in the
affirmative.
That in the five cases from tl- District of New Jersey, the
several judgments must be reversed, and the several causes
remanded to the Circuit Court for new trial, in conformity
with this opinion.
That in the case from the District of Massachusetts, the
two questions certified must be answered in the affirmative;
andThat in each of the two cases from the Southern Distridt
of New York, the following answer must he returned to the
Circuit Court, namely: "That the law imposing the special
tax in the indictment mentioned, and for the non-payment
of which, said indictment was preferred and found, is valid,
and not unconstitutional."
ALL WHICH IS ORDERED ACCORDINGLY.

PERVEAR

v.

THE COMMONWEALTH.

1. A license from the Federal government, under the internal revenue acts
of Congress, is no bar to an indictment under a State law prohibiting
the sale of intoxicating liquors. The License Tax Cases supra, p. 462,
herein affirmed.
2. A law of a State taxing or prohibiting a business already taxed by Con.

476

PERVEAR V. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.
gress, as ex. gr., the keeping and sale of intoxicating liquors,-Congress
having declared that its imposition of a tax should not be taken to
abridge the power of the State to tax or prohibit the licensed business,is not unconstitutional.
B The provision in the 8th article of the amendments to the Constitution,
that "excessive fines " shall not be " imposed, nor cruel and unusual
punishments inflicted," applies to National not to State legislation; the
court observing, however, that if this were otherwise, a fine of $60 and
imprisonment at hard labor in the house of correction, during three
months-the punishment imposed by a State for violating one of its
statutes, forbidding the keeping and sale of intoxicating liquors-cannot be regarded as excessive, cruel, or unusual.

THIS cause was brought before the court by writ of error
to the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, under, the 25th section of the Judiciary Act.
Pervear, the plaintiff in error, was indicted in the State
court for keeping and maintaining without license a tenement for the illegal sale and illegal keeping of intoxicating
liquors.
In bar of this indictment he pleaded specially three matters of defence:
(1) That he had a license from the United States under
,the internal revenue acts of Congress to do all the acts for
which he was indicted:
(2) That he had paid a tax or duty on the intoxicating
liquors, for keeping and selling which the indictment was
found, in the same packages, and in the same form and
quantity in which he sold the same; and
(3) That the fine and punishment imposed and inflicted
by the law of Massachusetts for the acts charged in the indictiment were cruel, excessive, and unusual, and that the
State law was therefore in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States [the 8th article to the amendments of
which, proposed in 1789, declares that "excessive bail shall
not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and
unusual punishments inflicted].
This plea was overruled, and Pervear declining to plead
further, a plea of not guilty was entered for him, He was
then put on trial, and the court instructed the jury that the

Dec. 1866.]

PE4.VEAR v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

477

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

plea was no defence to the indictment; to which instruction
exception was taken. A verdict of guilty was thereupon
found, and Pervear was sentenced to pay a fine of fifty dollars and to be confined at hard labor, in the house of correction, for three months.
The Writ of error brought this sentence under review, and
the general question now 'was, Did the State court err in
instructing the jury that the plea was no defence to the
indictment?
Mr. Sennott for Pervear,plaintiff in error:
I. Congress, in the exercise of its power to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts, &c., has constantly taxed imported articles. Such articles, so taxed, have been protected from State
interference by this court because they were taxed by Congress to raise revenue. The same body, in its internal revenue acts, has of late taxed domestic spirits and beer by
measure, for the purpose of raising a revenue.
Now, if the payment of the first impost protects imported
brandy from State laws, why does not the payment of the
second impost protect the plai'ntiff's domestiq spirits and
beer ?
In Brown v. Maryland,* Chief Justice Marshall declares
that, " by the payment of the duty to the United States, the
importer purchases a right to sell his merchandise, a State
law to the contrary notwithstanding." If this be -true, the
plaintiff, by paying his duty, purchased a similar right to
sell his goods, notwithstanding a State law.
II. The end of government is the protection of the persons and the property of men, and not to enforce morality
or to teach religion, or to carry on fhrming, or the lumber
trade, or to monopolize the liquor traffic. Laws passed by
government, which it has no right to pass, are not laws.
Punishments inflicted in pursuance of them are illegally in,
flicted.
The punishment, in this case, being for doing a lawful
* 12 Wheaton, 419.

478

PERVEAR V. THE COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

act, was excessive, cruel, and unusual, and therefore against
the eighth amendment of 1789.
Mr. Reed, Attorney- GJeneral of Massachusetts, contra:
The only distinction which it-can be pretended exists between clGuire v. Commonwealth* and The License Tax Cases,t
already decided by this court, and the case now under consideration is, that in the present case the tax paid was upon
the articles sold instead of upon the business carried on.
But the distinction is not one of essence, and, notwithstandin- it, the rule established in the cases cited must apply.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, after stating the case as already
given, delivered the opinion of the court.
We have already decided at this term that the first proposition of the plea in this case is no bar to an indictment
under a State law taxing or prohibiting the sale of intoxicating liquors
The second proposition of the plea is n6thing more than
a diffhrent form of the first. Both are identical in substance.
The case of Brown v. Maryland was referred to in argument as an authority for the general proposition that the
sale of goods in the same packages on which a duty had
been paid to the United States cannot be prohibited by State
legislation. But this case does not sustain the Proposition
in support of which it is cited.
The discussion in Brown v. Maryland related wholly to
imports under National legislation concerning commerce
with foreign nations. A law of Maryland required importers of fibreign goods to take out and pay for a State license
for the sale of such goods in that State; and under this law
the members of a Baltimore firm were indicted for having
sold certain goods in packages as imported, without having
taken out the required license. The defencb was that the
duty on the goods, imposed by the act of Congress, nd
been paid to the United States; that the license tax was, in
*

Wallace, 388.

t )upra, last preceding case, p. 462.

Dec. 1866.]

PERVEAR v. THE COMMONWEALTH.

479

Opinion of the court.

effect, an additional import duty, which could not be constitutionally imposed by State law.
This court sustained the defence then set up. It held
that, by the terms of the Constitution, the power to impose
duties on imports was exclusive in Congress; and that the
law of Maryland was in conflict with the act of Congress on
the same subject, and was therefore void.
But the defence set up in the case before us is a very different one. It is not founded on any exclusive power of
Congress, nor any act of Congress in conflict with State law.
It is founded on the general power to levy and collect taxes,
admitted on all hands to be concurrent only with the same
general power in the State governments; and upon an act
of Congress imposing a tax in the form of duty on licenses,
but expressly declaring that the imposing such a tax shall not
be taken to abridge the power of the State to tax or prohibit
the licensed business.
The defence rests, then, in this part, on the simple proposition that a law of a State taxing or prohibiting business
already taxed, by Congress is unconstitutional. And that
proposition is identical in substance and effect with the first
proposition of the plea, and has been held in the License Tax
Cases* to be no bar to the indictment.
The circumstance that the State, prohibition applies to
merchandise in original packages is wholly immaterial.
Even in the caL ' of importation, that circumstance is only
available to the in. orter. Merchandise in original packages,
once sold by the iml rter, is taxa~'e as other property. But
in the case before us there was no importation. So far as
appears the liquors were home-made, or, if not, were in
second hands. And the sale of such liquors within a State
is subject exclusively to State control.t
The third proposition of the plea is that fines and penalties
imposed and inflicted by the State law for offences charged
in the indictment are excessive, cruel, and unusual.
Of this proposition it is enough to say that the article of
*Supra , last preceding case, p. 462.

+- License Cases, 5 Htoward, 504,

480

PERVEAR v.

TiE

COMMONWEALTH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the Constitution relied upon in support of it does not apply
to State but to National legislation.*
But if this were otherwise the defence could not avail the
plaintiff in error. The offence charged was the keeping and
maintaining, without license, a tenement for the illegal sale
and illegal keeping of intoxicating liquors. The plea does
not set out the statute imposing fines and penalties for the
offenee. But it appears from the record that the fine and
punishment in the case before us was fifty dollars and imprisonmient at hard labor in the house of correction fbr three
months. We perceive nothing excessive, or cruel, or unusual in this. The object of the la-v was to protect the community against the manifold evils of intemperance. The
mode adopted, of prohibiting under penalties the sale and
keeping for sale of intoxicating liquors, without license, is
the usual mode adopted in many, perhaps, all of the States.
It is wholly within the discretion of State legislatures. We
see nothing in the record, nor has anything been read to us
from the statutes of the State which warrants us in saying
that the laws of Massachusetts having application to this
case are in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth must be
AFFIRMED.
NOTE.

The same order was made in four other cases,t "presenting,"
as the Chief Justice said, "substantially the same facts and
governed by the same principles."
At a later day of the term, to wit, April 30th, 1867, several
other cases on this same subject, coming here in error to the Supreme Court of Iowaj were submitted to the court on the rec.
Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Peters, 248.
t Lynde v. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts; Salmon v. Same; Cass
v. Same; Armstrong v. Same.
$ Carney v. State of Iowa; Munzenmainer v. Same; Bachman v. Same;
Bahlor v. Sane; Newman v. Same ; Stutz v. Same; Bennett v. Same.

Dec. 1866.]

THE EDDY.

481

Syllabus.

ords and briefs of lfr. Riddle, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr.
Cooley, contra.
On the following 7th of May the CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court, that the cases resembled, in all
essential features, cases already decided at this term, which presented the question of the constitutionality of State laws prohibiting, restraining, or taxing the business of selling liquors
under the internal revenue licenses of the United States; that
[he brief of the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error calling
upon the court to review its decisions affirming the validity of
those laws, the court had done so, and was satisfied with the
conclusions already announced.
The several judgments of the Supreme Court of the State of
Iowa were therefore
AFFIRMED.

THE EDDY.
1. Contracts of affreightinent are maritime contracts over which the courts
of admiralty have jurisdiction. Either party may enforce his lien by a
proceeding in rem in the District Court.
2. In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, the shipowner has a lien
upon the cargo for the freight,. and may retain the goods after the arrival of the ship at the port of destination until the payment is made.
The master cannot, however, detain the goods on board the vessel. He
mut deliver them.
3. An actual discharge of the goods at the warehouse of the consignee is not
required to constitute delivery. It is enough that the master discharge
the goods upon the wharf, giving due and reasonable notice to the consignee of the fact.
4. Where the goods, after being so discharged and separated into their different consignments, are not accepted by the consignee or owner, the
carrier discharges himself from liability on his contract of affreightments by storing them ir a place of safety and notifying to the consignee or owner that they are so stored, subject to the lien of the ship
for the freight and charges.
6. A frequent and even general but not at all universal practice in a particular port, of shipowners to allow goods brought on their vessels to-be
transported to the warehouse of the consignee and there inspected before
freight is paid, is not such a "custom" as will displace the ordinary
maritime right to demand freight on the delivery of the goods on the
wharf.
YOL. V.
81

