Dec. 1866.]

WITIIENBURY V. UNITED STATES.

819

Argument against jurisdiction.

WITHENBURY V. UNITED STATES.

A decree in a prize cause, which disposes of the whole matter in cor.troversy,
upon a claim filed by particular parties; which is final as to them and
their rights, and final also so far as the claimants and their Tights are
concerned as to the United States; which leaves nothing to be litigated
between the parties, and awards execution in favor of the libellants
against the claimants,-is final within the meaning of the Judiciary Acts,
and this court has jurisdiction of an appeal from it.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States fbr
the Southern District of Illinois.
Several libels were filed in that court for the condemnation, as prize of war, of large quantities of cotton and other
property captured on the interior navigable waters of the
United States, or on land adjacent thereto. On motion,
these libels were consolidated, and various claims were
interposed' in the consolidated suit for portions of the property libelled. Among these claims was that of Withenbury
& Doyle. They denied the validity of the capture, and
insisted on their own title to nine hundred and thirty-five
bales of the cotton.
Upon hearing of the cause as to this claim, an order was
made dismissing the claim, with costs, for which execution
was ordered.
From this decree the appeal now pending was taken, and
a motion for dismissal was now made, upon the ground that
the decree was not final, and therefore was not within the
jurisdiction of this court.
A motion of a similar sort was made and argued at the
same time in another and similar appeal, Le More v. United
States.

Messrs. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General, and Cashing, in
support of the motion:
No disposition has yet been made of the libel, or of the
cotton or its proceeds. The suit still remains pending in the
Distrit Court for the Southern District of Illinois. In fit.

WITHENBURY V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of jurisdiction.

raiston v. Stainthorp,* this court, on a question of what is a
final decree, assumed as of course the doctrine of T'7e
Palynira,ta case im admiralty, and where Marshall, C. J.,
says:
"The appeal is not well taken. The decree of the Circuit
Court was not final in the sense of the act of Congress. The
damages remain undisposed of,and an appeal may still lie upon
that part of the decree awarding damages. The whole cause is
not, therefore, finally determined in the Circuit Court, and we
are of opinion that the cause cannot be divided so as to bring
up successively distinct parts of it."
The inconvenience of admitting, in contradiction to the
decision of the court in the case of The Palmyra, that a cause
in admiralty can be divided so as to bring up successively
distinct parts of it, is illustrated inthe present case by the
fact that not only have Withenhury & Doyle taken an appeal on their claim, leaving the cotton and the libel against
it in the court below, undisposed of, but that other parties,
namely, Le More, claiming a part of the same cotton on
the same libel, but adversely to Withenbury & Doyle, have
also taken an appeal, and entered it here. Thus we have
two adversary sets of claimants, each splitting off from the.
main case, and from one another, and coining here with
their appeals, while the main case still remains in the inferior court. Can appeals be thus evolved indefinitely from
the body of one case? We think not; lut that on rejecting
all the claims against this parcel of cotton, the court below
should have proceeded to determine the question of prize,
and after that to decide what to do with the proceeds of the
cotton, and then to enter a final decree. Upon such a decree
any or all parties might have appealed in due form.
Mr. R. 21M. Corwihe, contra:
This is a definite sentence in ad'iiralty; which is a final
decree. Itdismisses the claimant from the case. Ile has no
" 2 Wallace, 106.
110 Whecaton, 502; and see Montgomery v Anderson, 21 Howard, 886.

Dec. 1866.]

WITHENBURY V. UNITED STATES.

821

Opinion of the court.

further voice in its conduct. It is final as to him and his
property. The evil impending cannot be repaired by an
appeal from a long-deferred definite or .final decree of the
whole case, or, the disposition of. all the claims filed in it.
Execution of this sentence must go forth in the absence of
an appeal. The claimants then have no other reinedy than
this appeal.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the re'cord that the decree disposed of the
whole matter in controversy upon tlje claim of Withenbury
& Doyle. It was final as to them and their rights, and it
wvas final also so far as *he claimants and their rights are
concerned as to the United States. It left nothing to be
litigated between these parties. It awarded execution in,
favor of the libellants against the claimants.
We think that such a deci'ee in a prize cause must be regarded as final within the meaning of the Judiciary Acts,
and that we have jurisdiction of the appeal from it.
The appeals in The Bermuda case, and in the case of the
Alexander cotton, were of the same character with that now
before us. In neither of these cases had all matters arising
upon the libel and the claims been finally disposed of. In
the first the appeal was by claimants of part of the property
libelled, whose claims had been dismissed and the property
claimed by them condemned. In the other the appeal was
by the UTnited States from a decree of restitution in favor of
a claimant of part of the property libelled, in the same consolidated cause from a decree in which, against another
claimant, the appeal which we are now asked to dismiss
was taken.
It is true, that in the cases just referred to no question
of jurisdiction was made at the bar, but it existed necessarily in each cause, and was practically determined in
favor of the jurisdiction, and, as we still think, rightly determined.
The motion to dismiss is therefore denied.
Tie motion to dismiss the appeal in Le More v. United

822

SEYMOUR V. FREER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

States depends on like facts and the same p'inciples with
that just decided, and must also be denied.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented.

SEYMOUR v. FREER.
Where, through mistake or accident, no bond, or a defective bond, has been
filed, this court will not dismiss the appeal,-if it is in all other respects
quite regular-,except on failure to comply with ah order to give the
proper security within such reasonable time as it may prescribe.

from the Circuit Court for Northerfi Illinois.
This was a motion to dismiss an appeal because the bond
for the prosecution of the appeal was not filed within ten
days after the decree.
It appeared that the decree in the Circuit Court was drawn
and placed in the hands of the clerk on the 15th of November, 1866, upon an understanding by the counsel, sanctioned
by the court, that it was to be entered, whe'n approved by
the court, as of that day. It was retained for several days
by the judge, who required a stipulation from counsel in respect to the receiver appointed by the decree, and was then
returned to the clerk, and entered on the 20th as of the 15th.
The bond was filed on the 28th.
APPEAL

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that for the purposes of appeal this decree must
be regarded as having been passed on the 20th, and that the
bond was filed in time.
But if this were otherwise, and through mistake or accident no bond, or a defective bond, bad been filed, this court
would not .dismiss the appeal, except on failure to comply
with an order to give the proper security within such rea.
sonable time as it might prescribe.* What is essential to an
* Brobst v. Brobst, 2 Wallace, 96.

