Dec. 1866.]

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

545

Syllabus.

iial revenue laws; but when terms are unambiguous we may
not speculate on probabilities of intention.
The rules of interpretation settled and established in the
construction of statutes deny to us jurisdiction of the controversy in the record, because it is- a suit between citizens
of the same State, and the juirisdiction of such suits in internal revenue cases, conferred by the acts of 18-33 and 1864,
is taken away by the act of 1866.
The appeal in this cause must therefore be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

THE BIRD O' PARADISE.
1. Ship-owners, as a general rule, have a lien upon the cargo for the freight,
and consequently may retain the goods after the arrival of the ship at the
port of destination until the payment is made. Presumption is in favor
of the lien, but it may be modified or displaced either by direct words
or by stipulations incompatible with the existence of such a right.
2. Insolvency of the shipper occurring while the goods are in transit, or before they tare delivered, will not absolve the carrier from an agreement
to take an acceptance on time, instead of cash, for the freight, nor authorize h'r'm, when he had made ueh an agreement, to' retain the goods
until the freight is paid. On the other bnd, as a bill of exchange or
promissory note given for a precedent debt does not extinguish the debt,
unless such was the agreement of the parties, a bill or note falling due
before the unloading of the cargo, and protested and unpaid, is no discharge of the lien; and the ship-owner, in such a case, may stand upon
it as fully us if the acceptance had never been given.
Hence, where, in the case of a vessel chartered from Liverpool to San
Francisco, freight was to " be paid in Liverpgol on unloading and right
delivery of the cargo," at a rate fixed by the parties, ''such
freight
to be paid, say one-fourth in cash and one-fourth by charterer's acceptance, at six nonth.- from the final sailing of the vessel, and the remainder by like bill at threemonths from-date of delivery, at charterer'socein
Liverpool, of the certfileate f the right delivery of the cargo agreeablyto bill
of lading, or in cash, under discount at five per cent., at freighter's
option. The ship and her freight are bound to this ventur -- iTeld,
i. That the "charterer's acceptance at six months from the final sailing of
the vessel " having been dishonored and he become bankrupt, it was no
VOL., V.

85

546

Tim, BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the ease.
payment of the one-fourth agreed to be so paid for, and that the lien for
that fourth was not displaced.
ii. That as to " the rqmainder," which was to be by like bill, at three months
fr m dale of delvery, at charterer'soffice in Lieryool, of the right delivery
of the earqo agreeably to bill of lading-the lien had been displaced, notwithstanding that the charterer bad become bankrupt before the vessel
arrived at San Francisco.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Northern District
of California, decreeing against a lien set up by ship-owners
for freight, on libel filed against a cargo. The case was thus:
On the 16th March, 1863, Eccles, of Liverpool, chartered
at that place from Taylor & Co., owners of the ship Bird of
Paradise, that vessel, to carry a cargo of coal, of which Eccles was the owner, to San Francisco, California, at a rate
agreed on per ton.

"The freight to be paid in Liverpool, on unloading and right
delivery of the cargo, one-fourth in cash, one-fourth by the acceptance of Eccles, the charterer, at six months from the final
sailing of the vessel, and the remainder by like bill, at three
months from delivery, at charterer's office in Liverpool, of certificate of right delivery of cargo agreeably to bills of lading, or
in cash, less five per cent., at freighter's option. The vessel to
be addressed to the freighter's agent abroad. £50'0 to be advanced in cash at the port of .discharge on account of the
freight. The ship and her freight are bound to this venture. The
penalty for non-peiformance of this agreement is to be the chartered
freight in pounds sterling."
The master signed, and the freighter, Eccles, accepted, a
bill of I'ding, in the usual form, for the cargo deliverable
"to order or assigns, he or they pa3/ing freight at the rate
of -- , as per charter-party."
The vessel sailed from Liverpool April 16, 1863, and arriwed at San Francisco on the 26th December, 1863, a voyage of eight months and ten days.
The charterer, Eccles, paid the promised one-fourth of the
freight before sailing, and gave his acceptance for the second
fourth, at six months, falling due October 19, 1863, more

Dec. 1866.]

THE BIRD

OF PARADISE.

Argument in support of the lien.

than two months before the vessel arrived, but it was nwcer
paid, Eeles having failed in business, and remaining solvetI (old
a bankrapt. On the arrival at San Francisco, the £500 agreed
to be advanced in cash at the port of discharge, was also paid;
but the second acceptance, the one, to Wit, for the residue. of
the freight, was not given, nor the amount paid in money.
The amount due for unpaid freight, regarding the first or
dishonored acceptance as a nullity, was thus $7050.
The captain refused to deliver the cargo to the agents of
Eecles .but kept control of it hiffiseif.
These agents accordingly filed their libel in the District
Court for the Northern District of California against the
cargo, to recover possession of it; the delivery being resisted under a claim of lien for freight.
That court considered that the claim was unfounded,
and decreed accordingly, and the decree being affirmed by
the Circuit Court, the correctness of such a view was now
the question here on appeal.
Mr. Benedict, for the appellants, owners of the vessel:
. This is an unconscionable action. The court will make
all reasonable presumptions against the libellants.
Eccles chartered the vessel to carry a cargo of coal from
Liverpool to San Francisco, a voyage of more than eight
months. The vessel performed the voyage in safety, at the
expense of the owners, and then finding the charterer bankrupt, refused to deliver the cargo to his agents, unless the
freight was paid. The agents refused to pay the freight,
and they brought this extraordinary action. Having had
the use of the entire ship, without expense, for more than
nine months, this bankrupt charterer demands the cargo
free of freight, on the sole ground that he had given a written promise to pay the freight, which he neither had performed, nor, being as he was, a bankrupt, ever would or
could perform.
A court of admiralty is a court of equity to the extent of
doing justice and requiring justice; and it will, in a cause
of possession, compel the libellants to do equity before it

THE BIRD OF PARAbTSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the lien.

will transfer to him the possession. Freight is a most just
demand.*
Charter-parties are to be, liberally construed.t
If. The whole sum due-the entire balance of $7050should have been paid before a delivery. The freight is a
lien upon the cargo by the maritime law, and all presumptions are in favor of the lien. The ship is bound to the merchandise and the merchandise to the ship. This lien is not
created by the act of the parties, but by the general maritime law, and is founded in public policy and the interest of
commerce. The Kimball,t in this court, is full to this effect.
It gives to the owner and the shipper a responsible indorser
and a responsible defendant in every port of the sea. And
this rule-an elementary and cardinal one-is to prevail,
unless the parties have intentionally excluded it-a thing
to be inferred from plain language alone. Nothing can be
inferred from silence. The burden is on the shipper to
prove an absolute waiver of the lien. He has given no such
e-vidence here.
Now, in this case, the freighter having failed-having
become wholly bankrupt-there was no obligation to deliver, unless the whole amount due-we mean both that
sum due on the protested draft, and that balance due after
the £500 cash were paid at San Francisco-were paid in cash.
There is in every contract for a payment by acceptances,
when made in a case like this, a condition-not the less
fundamental because but implied-that the acceptor shall
be solvent. This condition the law adds to the contract.
1. By the terms of the agreement, the giving an acceptance
was "non-performance" if it were not paid. It fell due
before the end of the voyage, and not being paid at maturity, Eccles failed to perform his part of the contract. Moreover his bankruptcy demonstrated that he never could perform it.
2. So, too, the charter-party declares in substance, "We
have received your cargo, and it will be delivered to you if
1 Haggard, 857; The Trident, 1 W. Robinson, 85; Id. 192.
$ 8 Wallace, 42.
- Raymond v. Tyson, 17 Howard, 59,

*Minerva,

Dee. 1866.]

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

549

Argument in support of the lien.

you pay as agreed in the charter-party. If you do not ' pay'
it will not be delivered. We shall not deliver on dishonored acceptances-they are not payment."
3. So, finally, by the now prevailing rules of commercial
law, the rule at this day being, that a mere note or draft
does not amount to a payment of a debt..* Certainly, in cases
of sales of goods conditionally, as for cash or indorsed paper,
and the cash not paid or the notes not given and the property delivered-the delivery is conditional, if the intent of
either party that it should be so can be at all inferred from
their acts and the circumstances of the case.t
In a ease very similar to this in New York, Comstock, J.,
said:
"The analogies to be derived from the law of stoppage in
transitu are perhaps not perfect, but they are sufficiently near
to furnish a rule for the present case. When goods are sold to
be paid for in the notes of the buyer, and he becomes insolvent
before the delivery is complete, the seller may arrest the delivery and rescind the sale. There is nowhere in the terms of the
contract any such condition. The law implies it, because the
assumed ability of the buyer to pay for the goods was the inducement
to the sale."
But in this case we have the very terms of the contract.
The charterer had failed to perform the charter-party on his
part by not having paid his acceptance for the one-fourth.
There was thus "non-performance" of the agreement; and,
by the terms of the contract, "the penalty for non-performance of this agreement is to be the chartered freight in
pounds sterling." That is to say, in cash on delivery.
There were also in this case circumstances which aid in
,the construction of the contract. This, it must be remembered, was the longest voyage known to commerce, ending
many thousands of miles from the parties; no security except the cargo; the cargo homogeneous, of great value and
ready sale; the taking the bill of lading in addition to the
Sutton v. The Albatross, 2 Wallace, Jr., 327.
- Benedict v. Field, 16 New York, 598.

550

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct,

Argument against the lien.

charter-party; the making the acceptances fall due before
the end of the voyage, so that, if not paid, the charterer
would violate the charter-party and the master be entitled
to enforce his lien for the whole freight by the bill of lading,
and the improbability that any ship-owner would despatch
his ship on such a voyage with no possible security tor any
freight: all these coincide with those provisions of the con.
tract which provide fbr the usual lien.
I. But if this were not true as to the whole amount-concedin g that as to the second instalinent the language of the
charnter-party ('' the remainder by like bill at three months
from delivery, at charterer's office in Liverpool, of certificate
of right delivery") may place, as to that balance, the risk
of solvency on the ship-owners-yet certainly as to the quartet for which the draft was given and not paid, the case is
difibrent. There has assuredly been no payment of that
fburth ; while payment of it was a condition precedent to
delivery. In any view, by the terms of the contract, as well
as by the now prevailing rule of commercial law, the giving
of a worthless draft was no payment.
Messrs. Owen and Nash, contra :
I. The provisions of the charter-party are inconsistent
with any lien upon the cargo for the freight.
The freight was to be paid at Liverpool, the port of loading, not at San Francisco, the port of discharge. A payment to the master at San Francisco, therefore, would not
protect the party making such payment. The freight was
to be paid not concurrently with the delivery of the cargo,
but partly in advance and partly three months after such
delivery: " One-fourth in cash and one-fourth by charterer's
acceptance at six months from the final sailing of the vessel."
These payments were to be made in advance of any fieight
being earned, in consideration therefore not of having carried, but simply of agreeing to carry and of taking the cargo
on board. "The remainder, by like bill, at three months
from date of delivery, at charterer's office in Liverpool, of the
certificate of the right delivery of the cargo." This portion

Dec. 1866.]

TimE BIRD OF PARADISE.

551

Argument against the lien.

was, therefore, payable also in Liverpool, and not payable
there till a certificate should be produced at the charterer's
office in Liverpool, that the cargo had been duly delivered in
San Francisco, and then payable by bill at three months, or
in cash, at charterer's option.
It is impossible to sustain a lien as for freight, under a
special contract of this character, without disregarding the
whole current of authority.*
The lien exists only where the master has a right to denmand the freight on unlading the cargo, or wherethe freight
is payable so soon after the cargo is discharged as to imply
a right in the master to detain for that short period; as in
the case of The Kimball, in this court, relied on by opposite
counsel, where the freight was payable, " one-half in five,
and one-half in ten days after discharge" of the cargo.
There a distinction was drawn'between a discharge of the
cargo and the delivery of it, the period allowed beitg held
4 only a reasonable one for examining the condition of the
cargo."
In the case at bar, however, the credit given was so long,
and the provisions of the charter-party in reference to place
of payment so inconsistent with any lien, as to make it quite
clear that the contract was made upon the personal responsibility pf the charterer and the consideration of the cash
received in advance.
II. But the right of lien does not depend upon the solvency of the charterer. In fact, the lien is of importance to
the owner only, as his remedies against the charterer are precarious. Accordingly, the eases on the subject are eases
where the charterer was in default. In Raymond v. Tyson,t
there was a large arrear of charter-money. In The Kimball,
* Raymond v. Tyson, 17 Howard, 53; Chandler v. Belden, 18 Johnson,
157; The Schooner Volunteer, 1 Sumner, 551; Certain Logs of Mahogany,

2 Id. 589; Ruggles v. Bucknor, 1 Paine, 358; Pinney V. Wells, 10 Connecticut, 104; Alsager v. The St. Katherine's Dock Company, 14 Meeson &
Welsby, 794; Foster v. Colby, 3 Hurlstone & Norman, 705; Kirchner v.
Venus, 12 Moore's Privy Council, 361; Tamvaco v. Simpson, 19 Common
Bench, N. S. 453; affirmed, 1 Law Reporter, C. P. 863.

f 17 Howard, 53.

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the charterers had become insolvent, and though the lien
was sustained, it was not on this ground. In Alsagcr v. The
St. Kalhcrine's Dock Co.,* the charterers were bankrupt, and
the suit for the cargo was brought by their assignees, who
were allowed to recover without paying freight. In Tamvaco
v. Simpson,t the acceptor for a portion of the freight in advance had become bankrupt.
The question whether there is a lien or not, depending
as it does upon the charter containing terms as to payment,
showing a credit given to the charterer inconsistent with a
lien, must be determined by the charter itself, not by circumstances subsequently occurring. If, in fact, the owner
has agreed to carry the cargo, without retaining a lien upon
it, but looking to time personal responsibility of the charterers,
whom lie has agreed to trust for the freight, the charterer
may sell the cargo in transit, as being free from freight, and
his subsequent insolvency cannot charge it with a lien.
III. The common provision in a charter-party, binding
the cargo to the ship and the ship to the cargo, is sometimes
taken into consideration in determining whether the shipowner intended to waive his lien for freight. It was so in
The Kimball, cited on the other side. In this case, in lieu
of such usual clause, the charter only binds the vessel and
her freight, and does not bind the cargo. This unusual
language is quite consistent with the provisions as to the
time, manner, aid place prescribed for the payment of the
freight, which it is impossible to reconcile with any right to
detain the cargo.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.

Assignees of the charter-party and of the bill of lading
libelled the ship Bird of Paradise, her tackle, apparel, and
furniture in a cause of contract, civil and maritime.
Breach of contract alleged in the libel is the refusal of the
iaster of the ship to deliver the cargo as stipulated in the
*14

]Meeson & Welsby, 794.

,f 19 Common Bench, N. S. 4-53.

Dec. 1866.]

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

553

Opinion of the court.

charter-party and bill of lading. Voyage was from Liverpool to San Francisco, and the bargo consisted of nine hundred and fifty-two tons of coal. Terms of the charter-party,
material to the inquiry are, that the freight shall "be paid
in Liverpool on unloading and right delivery of the cargo,"
at the rate therein prescribed, and in full of all other specified charges. " Such freight is to be paid, say one-fourth in
cash, and one-fourth by charte'rer's acceptance at six months
from the final sailing of the vessel, . . and the remainder
by like bill at three months from date of delivery, at charterer's office in Liverpool, of the certificate of the right delivery of the cargo agreeably to bill of lading, or in cash
under discount at five per cent. per annum, at freighter's
option." Other material clauses are, that the "vessel shall"
be addressed to the freighter's agent abroad, that five hundred pounds sterling shall " be advanced in cash at port of
discharge on account of the freight," and that "the ship and
her freight are bound to this venture," but it does not contain the usual clause that the cargo is bound to the ship.
Bill of lading is in the usual form and contains the clause,
"they paying freight for the goods at the rate as per charterparty." Sum advanced for first instalment of freight was
subject to three months' interest, at five per cent. per annum, and cost of insurance. Charter-party was signed by
the claimants, and the bill of lading was signed by the master. Ship was loaded by the charterer, and it is proved she
arrived in safety at the port of destination with the cargo on
board. Consignees demanded the goods, but the master
refused to deliver the same unless the freight was paid contemporaneously with the delivery, placing the refusal upon
the ground that the ship had a, lieu upon the cargo for the
unpaid balance of the freight, but the libellants claimed that
they were entitled to the delivery of the cargo without paying any freight except in the manner provided in the charterparty.
1. Proofs showed that the ship sailed on the sixteenth day
of April, 1863, and that she arrived at the port of destination on the twenty-sixth day of December in the same year.

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

Cash instalment of freight was paid as stipulated in the
charter-party. Acceptance of the charterer given for the
second instalment, payable in six months from date, was
delivered to the claimants on the day the ship sailed from
the port of departure. Before she arrived at the port of
destination, the charterer failed in business, and became
and is insolvent and bankrupt.
Payment of the acceptance was never made, and the proofs
show that it is still held and owned by the claimants. Whole
freight remains unpaid except the cash instalment paid before the ship sailed, and the five hundred pounds stipulated
to be advanced in cash at the port of discharge. Amount
due and unpaid is seven thousand and fifty dollars in gold,
deducting the sum advanced at the port of discharge and
including the residue of the last instalment and the unpaid
and protested acceptance. Pending the suit, the cargo was
delivered to the consignees under a stipulation that it should
be returned to the master in case the claim of lien for freight
should be sustained. Decree of the District Court was that
the claim was unfounded; that the ship bad no lien for
freight on the cargo, and that the stipulation for the return
of the cargo should be given up to be cancelled. Circuit
Court affirmed the decree, and the claimants appealed to this
court.
2. Equities of the case in view of the whole record are
strongly with the ship-owner, but the questilons presented
for decision are questions of law and must depend upon the
construction of the contract as expressed in the charterparty. Rieference need not be made to the bill of lading,
as it is in the usual form, and refers to the charter-party as
the controlling evidence of the contract in respect to the
matter involved in this controversy. Ship-owners, unquestionably, as a general rule, have a lien upon the cargo for
the freight, and consequently may retain the goods after the
arrival of the ship at the port of destination until the pay-.
ment is made, unless there is some stipulation in the charterparty or bill of lading inconsistent with such right of retention, and which displaces the lien.

Dec. 1866.]

Tn,

BIRD

OF PARADISE.

55

Opinion of the court.

3. Such a lien is regarded in the jurisprudence of the
United States as a maritime lien, because it arises from the
usages of commerce, in dependently of the agreement of
the parties, and not from any statutory regulations. Legal
effect of such a lien is, that the ship-owner, as carrier by.
water, may retain the goods until the freight is paid, or he
may enforce the same by a proceeding in rein in the District
Court. But it is not the same as the privileged claim of the
civil law, nor is it an hypothecation of the cargo which will
remain a charge upon the goods after the ship-owner haa,
parted unconditionally with the possession. Although the
lien is maritime and cognizable in the admiralty, yet it
stands upon the same ground with the lien of the carrier on
land, and arises from the right of the ship-owner to retain
the possession of the goods until the freight is paid, and is
lost by an unconditional delivery to the consignee.*
Parties, however, may frame their contract of affreightment as they please, and of course may employ words to
affirm the existence of the maritime lien, or to extend or
modify it, or they may so frame their contract as to exclude
it altogether. They may agree that the goods, when the
ship arrives at the port of destination, shall be deposited in
the warehouse of the consignee or owner, and that the transfer and deposit shall not be regarded as the waiver of the
lien ; and where they so agree, the settled rule in this court
is, that the law will uphold the agreement and support the
lien.t
4. Presumption is in favor of the lien as already explained,
but it may be modified, or it may be excluded or displaced
by direct words, or by the insertion of some stipulation
wholly incompatible or irreconcilable with the existence of
such a, right. Contracts of affreightment, like other com.
mercial contracts, where the language employed is ambigu.
ous or of doubtful meaning, are subject'to judicial construc.
tion, and it often happens that the terms of the instrument
* 1 Black, 113.
t Mordecai v. Lindsay (The Eddy,-REP.), supra, p. 481.

556

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in respect to the payment of freight and the delivery of the
cargo are so inaptly chosen that it gives rise to very close
and embarrassing questions. Where the stipulation is, that
the goods are to be delivered at the port of discharge before
the freight is paid, without any condition or qualification,
it seems to be agreed that the lien of the ship-owner for the
payment of the freight is waived and lost, as the right of lien
is inseparably associated with the possession of the goods.
Unless the stipulation is, that'the delivery shall precede the,
payment of the freight, and the language employed 'as applied to the subject-matter and the surrounding cireumstan es is such as clearly to show that the change of possession is to be absolute and unconditional, the lien is not displaced, as the presumption of law is the other way, which is
never to be regarded as controlled, except in cases where the
language employed in the instrument satisfactorily indicates
that such is the intention of the parties.
5. Such precedent delivery, if absolute and unconditional,
displaces the lien for freight, because it is repugnant to it and
incompatible with it, but where the payment or security of
payment is to be concurrent or simultaneous with the delivery of the cargo the lien exists in full force, and the ship-.
owner cannot be required to make the delivery until the
payment of freight, or security, as the case may be, is tendered. Judge Story says the lien exists if it appears that
the payment is to be made before or at the delivery of the
cargo, or even if it does no6 appear that the delivery is to
precede such payment.-(The Volunteer, 1 Sumner C. C.
571.) Accordingly, he held in that case, that the stipulation
that the freight should be paid within ten days after the vessel returned to the port of departure, did not displace the lien
on the return cargo, as the unlivery of the cargo might be
rightfully postponed beyond the ten days after the return of
the ship, when, by the terms of the charter-party, the freight
would become due. Same defence, that is, the waiver or displacement of the lien by a clause in the charter-party giving
credit for the payment of the freight, was set up in a subsequent casb before the same court, in which the terms of the

Dec. 1866.]

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Opinion of the court.

clause relied on afforded more color to the views of the responde.nt.*
Terms of the stipulation in that case were, that the freight
should be paid "in five days after the vessel's return to, and
discharge in, the return port of the voyage." Argument of
the respondent was, that the word discharge, as used in the
clause, meant not merely the unloading of the brig, but the
delivery of the cargo to the charterer or owner of the goods.
Aided, however, by the terms of the bill of lading, which
referred to the charter-party, the court came to the opposite
conclusion, and held that the word discharge, as there used,
meant merely the unlading of the cargo from the ship, without any reference to a delivery to the owner or consignee.
Exactly the same rule was adopted and applied by this court
in the construction of a similar clause of a charter-party in
a case heard and decided at the last term.
Part of the charter-money, in that case, was agreed to be
paid, and was paid, before the ship sailed, or during the voyage, and the stipulation was, that the balance should be paid,
"one-half in five and one-half in ten days after the discharge
of the-homeward cargo," and the decision was, that the stipulation, construed in the light of another clause in the same
instrument, which provided in effect that the ship should be
bound to the merchandise and the merchadise to the ship,
was not inconsistent with the right of the owner to retain
the cargo for the preservation of the lien, as the clause was
intended for the benefit of the charterer, giving him time to
examine the goods and ascertain their condition, and to decide whether he would or would not take them and pay the
freight. But the court remarked that the credit might be
for so. great a period as to justify the inference that the shipowvner intended to waive his right of lien ; and it was decided,
in an earlier case, that the lien may be waived without express words to that effect, if the charter-party contains stipulations inconsistent with the exercise of such a right, or

* Certain Logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumncr, 600.

Tim

BIRD OF PARADISE.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

where it clearly appears that the ship-owner meant to trust
to the personal responsibility of the charterer.*
6. Repeated decisions of the courts in Westnminster Hall
have adopted the same general rule, and in some decisions
of very recent date the same principles have been applied in
cases entirely analogous to the one now before the court.
Settled doctrine of those courts is, that the law merchant
gives to the ship a lien for the freight, or rather the right of
the ship-owner to retain the goods until the freight is paid.t
They hold it to' be a common law right, not cognizable in
the admiralty; but they admit that special clauses in the
charter-party, or bill of lading, inconsistent with it, operates
as a waiver, and may destroy the righ4:
Unless, however, the special agreement is absolutely inconsistent with the retention of the goods, the waiver or displacement is not shown, and the right remains.§
Recent decisions in that country put the principal question
under consideration in a clear light, and leave no doubt, if
the case were pending there, how it would be solved. Take,
for example, the case of Alsager v. Dock Co.,I which was decided in the Court of Exchequer. Charter-party iii that case
contained two clauses material to be noticed. First clause
was, that the vessel might discharge in any dock the shipper
might appoint, " on being paid freight" at the prescribed
rate per ton. Second clause was, that the freight should be
paid " on unloading and right delivery of the cargo, two
months after the vessel's inward report at the customhouse." Conclusion of the court was, that the two clauses
of the charter-party must be construed together; but they
The Kimball, 3 Wallace, 42; Raymond v. Tyson, 17 Howard, 59.

t Philips v. Rodic, 15 East, 554.
$ Lucas v. Nockells, 4 Bingham, 731; Chase v. Westmore, 5 Maule &
Selwyn, 180; Tate v.Meek, 8 Taunton, 280; Horncastle v.Farran, 3 Barnewall & Alderson, 497; Small v. M[oaltes, 9 Bingham, 588.
Crawshay v. Homfray, 4 Barnewall & Alderson, 50; Pinney v.Wells,
10 Connecticut, 104; Howard v.Rlacondray, 7 Gray, 516; Wilson v.Kymer,
1 Maule & Selwyn, 157; Neish v.Graham, 8 Ellis & Blackburie, 510; Campion v.Colvin, 3 Bingham, N. C. 26.
U 14 ceson & Welsby, 798.

Dec. 1866.]

TIE

BIRD OF PARADISE.

Opinion of the court.

held that the freight was not payable until two months after
the inward report, and that the ship-owner had not any lien
on the cargo for the freight, because the delivery of the
goods was required to precede the payment of the chartermoney.
Terms of the charter-party in the case of Foster v. Colby,*
were substantially the same, so far as respects the principal
question in this case. Freight was payable in that charterparty in three instalments, but the terms of the first two
payments are unimportant. Material clause reads as fbllows, to wit: " Tho remainder in cash, two months from the
vessel's report inwards, and after right delivery of the cargo,
or under discount at five per cent. per annum, at freighter's
option." held, that the charter-party did not create any lien
in respect of that part of the freight which was payable two
months after the vessel's inward report, although the charter-party contained the stipulation that the owners of the
ship should "have al absolute lien on the cargo for all
freight, dead freight, and demurrage." Latter clause was
intended, as the court held, not to enlarge the right of lien
for freight, as generally understood, but to include dead
freight and demurrage within the operation of the general
provision.
7. Words of the charter-party in this case are that the
third instalment shall be paid by "bill, at three months
from date of delivery at charterer's office, in Liverpool, of
the certificate of the right delivery of the cargo, agreeably
to the bills of lading." Giving the usual meaning to language, it is plain that the intent of the parties was that the
delivery of the goods should precede the payment of the
freight, and it is equally clear that the delivery was to be
without qualification and unconditional. Certificate of right
delivery of the cargo could not be obtained until the vessel
was discharged, and the cargo delivered, and, if forwarded
by the next steamer, a month would elapse before it could
be delivered at charterer's office in Liverpool, which would
*3

Hurlstone & Norman, 716.

560

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

[SUp. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

extend the credit to four months from the delivery of the
cargo.
8. Appellants contend that, inasmuch as the charterer
failed in business and became a bankrupt before the vessel
arrived at the port of discharge, the case is taken out of the
operation of those rules of law, even in respect to the list
instalment. Basis of this argument is a supposed analogy
betwcen the ship-owner as against the shipper, aind the vendor of merchandise as against the vendee, as exemplified in
the law of stoppage in iransilu, but it is not perceived that
any such relation exists between the ship-oiner and the
charterer,. or that there is any foundation whatever for the
arrumert. intention of the parties in the contract of affreightment, as in other commercial contracts, must be ascertained from the language employed, the subject-matter,
and the surrounding circumstances, and it is clear that the
question of construction cannot be affected in the smallest
degree by the subsequent solvency or insolvency of one of
the contracting parties. Credit was given in this ease to
the charterer fbr the payment of the last instalment of the
freight of four months from the time when the goods were
required by the terms of the instrument to be delivered to
the consignee at the port of discharge, and it is too plain for
argument that the subsequent insolvency of the charterer
can neil her erase that clause from the charter-party or
shorten the term of the credit.*
Insolvency of shipper occurring while the goods are in
transit, or before they are delivered, will not absolve the
carrier from his agreement as made, nor authorize him to
retain the goods until the freight is paid, unless the lien
exists independently of that occurrence.t
9. Claim of the appellants, also,,is that the ship in this
case had a lien for the second instalment of the freight, secured by the charterer's acceptanc&, made payable in six
Alsagr v. Dock Co., 14 Moeson & Wolsby, 798; Tamvaco v. Simpson,
I Law Rep. C. P. 371; Same case, 19 Common Bench, N. S. 478.
+ Crawshay v. Hiomfray, 4 Barnewall & Alderson, 50; Chandler v. Belden, 18 Johnson, 157 ; Fieldings v. Mills, 2 Bosworth, 498.

Dec. 1866.-]

TiE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Opinion of the court.

months from date, and delivered to the ship-owner on the
day the ship sailed. Acceptance became due, and the charterer also became a bankrupt before the vessol arrived ait the
port of discharge, and it is adiaitted that the acceptance is
still held and owned by the ship-owner.
Established rule in this court is, that a bill of exchange
or promissory n~ote given for a precedent debt'does not extinguish the debt or operate as payment of the same, unless
such was the express agreement of the parties. Agreement
of the parties filed in the ease and made a part of the record,
shows that the acceptance was presented to the bankrupt
court, and that it has never been paid, and it is not pretended that it is of any value. Valueless as the acceptance
is, the objection if made, that it had never been tendered to
be cancelled, would be a mere technicality, but no such objection is made, and as the parties agree that it has never
been negotiated it must be understood that any suel objection is waived. Payment of that instalment of the freight
therefore is not proved, and there is no evidence in the record tending to show that the lien for' that instalment of the
freight was ever waived. Ship-owner under the circumstances
has a right to stand upon the original contract and to seek
his remedy to that extent of his claim in the form to which
it originally belonged as fully as if the acceptance had never
been given.'
Entire freight under this ehartgr-party, except the small
advance stipulated to be made at the port of discharge, was
to be paid in the port of shipment. Port of shipment was
also the port wlere the ship lay when the contract was made,
and the terms of the contract afford the most plenary evidence that the parties regarded the charter-money stipulated
to be paid at that port as freight in the usual and proper
sense in which that word is understood in the maritime law.t
10. Suppose,'h,,wever, a different rule could be applied to
Steamer St. Lawrence, 1 Black, 5383; The Kimball, 3 Wallace, 45;
The Active: Olcott, Admr. 206; Bark Chusan, 2 Story, 457.
t Gilkison v. Middloton, 2 Common Bench, N. 5. 152; Neish v. Graham
8 Ellis & Blackburne 310; Gracio v. Palmer, 8 Wheaton, 605.
'ol.. V.

36

562

THE BIRD OF RArADISE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the surn actually paid or advanced before the vessel sailed.
Still that concession, if made, would not afi bt the question
as to the second instalment in this case, because that instalment was not advanced in money, and has never been paid.
Separated from the acceptance, which, under the decisions
of this court, was not payment, it presents the ordinary case
of a promise to pay freight and a failure to fulfil the contract, and in this point of view the case is clearly distillguishable from the decision in which it is heltI that sums
stipuiated in charter-parties to be paid in advance and not
dependent on the carrier's contract do not have the incidents
of freight, and are not protected by the lien of the ship-owiler,
unless by usage or special contract.*
11. Foundation of those decisions is, that money advanced
as freight cannot be recovered back, not even in ease the
ship is lost on the voyage, and the freight is never earned;
because, as it is said, payment determines the lien, and anything accepted as an advance, such as a bill of exchange, is
the same thing, unless there is al express agreement to the
contrary. Undoubtedly an actual payment determines the
lieu to that extent, but it is not cdrreet to say that a bill of
exchange has the same effbet, unless it be so agreed between
the parties; and the settled doctrine in this country is, that
freight paid in advance is not earned unless the voyage is
performed, and that the shipper may recovbr it back, if for
any fault not imputable tb him the contract is not fiallilled.t
12. Absence of the clause that the merchandise is bound
to the ship cannot affect the question, as that is the presumption of the law-merchant, from the relation between the
ship and the cargo, independently of any express stipulation,
unless the presumption to that effect is negatived by the
language of the contraet.1 Whenever the owners of the
How v. Kirchner, 11 Moore's Privy Council, 21; Kirchner v. Venus,
12 Id. 384; Mlaclachlan on Shipping, 383.
t The Kimball, 3 Wallace, 44.; Benner v. Insurance Company, 6 Allen,
222; Chase v. Insurance Company, 9 Id. 313; Watson v. Duykinck, 3 John-

Bon, 33.5; Griggs v. Austin, 3 Pickering, 20; 3 Kent Com. (11th ed.), 304;
Pitman v. Hooper, 3 Sumner, 66.
1 1 Parsons's M. L. 124, 253.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. THE COMMISSIONER.

563

Statement of the case.

ship constitute one party, and the owners of the cargo the
other, tho law of freight applies, and the fundamental rule,
says Ir. Parsons, is that the rights of the respective parties
arm reciprocal, and that each has a lien against the other to
enforce those rights, and the better opinion is, that the lien
for freight commences as soon as the goods are delivered
into the control of the master, or certainly as soon as they
are put on board.*
Usually the charter-party contains a clause binding the
ship to the merchandise and the merchandise to the ship,
but the Iaw-merhant, as already explained, imposes that
mutual obligation even if it be omitted.t
Decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed with costs,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings in con formity to this opinion. Libellants, upon the payment of the
amount of the protested acceptance and interest and costs
of suit, will be entitled to a decree that the stipulation given
for the return of the goods shall be given up to be cancelled.
Otherwise the libel must be dismissed.
DECREE REVERSED WITH COSTS.

UNITED STATES V. THE COMMISSIONER.
A mandamus will not be granted to compel the performance of an office, such
as the issuing of a patent for land, in a case where numerous questions of
law and fact arise, some of them depending upon circumstances which rest
in parol proof yet to be obtained, and where the exercise of judicial funcNor will it be
tions, some of them of a high character, is required.
granted where it is reasonable to presume that there are persons at the
time in posession under another title, and who therefore should have an
opportunity to defend it.

THIS was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
*

2 Parsons on Contracts (5th ed.). 286; Abbott on Shipping, 462; Fra-

gano v. Long, 4 Barnewall and Creswell, 219; Cooke v. Wilson, 1 Common

Bench, N. S. 153; Maclachlan on Shipping, 353; Tindall v. Taylo, 4 Ellis
& Blackburn, 219; Same case, 28 English Law and Equity, 210.
-f- Brig Casoo, Davies, 184; 2 Parsons on Contracts, 803; 2 Parsons's M.

L. 561.

