THE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

THE SEA LION.
Under the act of 18th July, 1861, which forbade all commercial inter
course between the inhabitants of a State whom the President should
proclaim in a state of insurrection, and the citizens of the rest of the
the President" might
United States, but by which it was enacted that ',
"in his discretion" license and permit intercourse in such articles, &c.,
"as he in his discretion'' might think most conducive to the public interest, and that "such intercourse so far as by him licensed" should be
"conddeted and carried on only in pursuance of rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury." Held(i)That the President alone had the right to license such intercourse.
(ii) That a license from a "Special Agent of the Treasury Department and
Acting Collector of Customs" dated 16th February, 1863, to bring cotton
"from beyond the United States military lines,"though certifying on
its face that the United States military commander of the department
where the license was given, by order in the "special agent's" hands
"approved and directed this policy," and indorsed "Approved" by the
rear admiral commanding that maritime stationf which license declared
thatocotton brought by particular persons named would "not be interfered with in any manner, and they can ship it direct ,to any foreign
or domestic port"-was no protection to property bearing the stamp of
enemy property when captured in coming from a port of a State in
insurrection and then under blockade by the government, though in a
course of being brought by the particular persons, named in the license.
2. Such a license as that above mentioned had no warrant either from the
Treasury regulations of 28th of August, 1861, or from those of 31st
March, 1863.
I

AN act of Congress passed during the late rebellion (july
18th, 1861), prohibited all commercial intercourse between
the inhabitants of any State which the President might declare in a state Of insurrection, and the citizens of the rest
of the United States; and enacted that all merchandise coming from such territory into other parts of the United States
with the vessel conveying it should be forfeited.
The act provided, however, that "the President" might
"in his discretion license and permit commercial intercourse"
with any such part of a State the inhabitants of which had
been so declared in a state of insurrection, "in such articles,
and for such time, and by such persons, as he, in his discretion, may think most conducive to the public interest." And

Dec. 1866.]

THE SEA LIoN.
Statement of the case.

that "such intercourse, so far as by him licensed, shall be
conducted and carried on only in pursuance of rules and reg
ulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury."
The President having soon after declared several Southern
States, and among them Alabama, in a state of insurrection,
and the Secretary of the Treasury having issued a series of
commercial regulations* on the subject of intercourse with
them, Brott, Davis & Shons, a commercial firm of New Orleans, obtained from Mr. G. S.Dennison, special agent of
the Treasury Department, and acting collector of customs at
New Orleans, a paper, dated February 16th, 1863, as fbllows:
"The United States military and other authorities at New
Orleans permit cotton to be received here from beyond the
United States military lines, and such cotton is exempt from
seizure or confiscation. An order is in my hands from MajorGeneral Banks approving and directing this policy. The only condition imposed is that cotton or other produce must not be
bought with specie. All cotton or other produce brought hither
from the Confederate lines by Brott, Davis & Shons will not be
interfered with in any manner, and they can ship it direct to
any foreign or domestic port."
This paper was indorsed by Rear Admiral Farragut,in command of the blockading force on that coast, "Approved."
The
Rear Admiral had given also the following instructions to
his commander of the Mobile blockade:
"Should any vessel come out of Mobile and deliver itself up
as the property of a Union man desiring to go to New Orleans,
take possession and send it into New Orleans for an investigation of the facts, and if it be shown to be as represented, the
vessel will be considered a legal trader, under the general order
permitting all cotton and other produce to come to New Orleans."
With the first quoted of these documents in their posses.
sion, Brott, Davis & Shons addressed the following commu
* Not set forth in the records or briefs, nor as the case was decided essen.
tially important to be set out.

ThiE

SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the case.

nication, dated Mar(h 9th, 1863, to one Worne; be being
at this time a member of the firm of Oliver & Worne,
who were engaged in business in New Orleans; Danes by
birth:
"All cotton and other produce shipped from within the
Confederate lines to our address by yourself', as our agent,
will be protected by us under authority from the military and
naval authority of this place, dated February 16th, 1863, permitting us to receive such cargoes and to reship them to fbreign
ports. The original permit alluded to we herewith inclose to
you."
On accepting from Brott, Davis & Shons, the agency, Oliver & Worne proceeded to Mobile for the purpose, as such
agents, to ship cotton to some place; where? was one of the
questions raised.
At Mobile Worne transferred his agency to HIohensteir,
& Co.
These persons, upon assuming the employment passed
over to them, bought a schooner, "The Sea Lion," of about
ninety tons. And, on the oath of "M. D. Eslava, of Mobile," the vessel was registered under an 1"act to provide for
the regulation of vessels owned in whole or in part by citizens of the Confederate States," as the property of Hohenstein & Co., "the only owners." On this schooner they
laded two hundred and seventy bales of cotton. A small
shipment (seven barrels) of turpentine was also put on board.
They selected for captain a certain Netto, a Spanish subject,
born in Mahon, unmarried, for four years previous to 1863
resident in Mobile, but for six years before coming there
sailing on Spanish ships; one Yokum (a partner of Hohenstein), originally of the loyal States, but after 1856 of Memphis, Tennessee, being appointed by Oliver & Worne supercargo. The crew, seven in number, were from Mobile, and
all Spanish but one, he being English.
The vessel being thus ready for a voyage, Oliver & Worne
gave to Yocum, the supercargo, letters of introduction to
pa -sons in New Orleans.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SEA LION.

638

Statement of the case.

[Oliver to Brott.]

May 10th, 1863.

F. BROTT, ESQ.,
Of Brott, Davis & Shons, New Orleans

DEAR SIR: I beg to introduce to your acquaintance Mr. N.
Yocum, who visits your city on business. I recommend Mr.
Yocum to your best attentions, and trust that you will assist
him in his purposes, which he will explain to you verbally. Mr.
Yocum is the senior of the firm of J. Hohenstein & Co., your
agents fbr cotton shipments.
Trusting that lively business transactions between your respective
firms may be the result of your meeting with Mr. Yocum,
I remain truly yours,
OLIVR & W.

[Same to Pilcher.]

MWay 10th, 1868.

MASON PILCHER, E SQ.,
President of Bank of New Orleans.

DEAR SIR: By the
ance Mr. N. Yocum,
ommend Mr. Yocum
will please to assist
you verbally.

present I beg to introduce to your acquaintwho visits your city on business. I recto your best attention, and trust that you
him in his purposes, which he will explain to
OLIVR & W.
[Worne to Pilcher.]

May 10th, 1863.
MASON PIL HER, EsQ.
DEAR SIR: The present will be handed to you by Mr. N. Yocum, who takes out some cotton. I would write to you more
fully on this subject, but deem it advisable to let Xr. Yocum explain this transactionto you.
He intends purchasing a steamer. If the one you had at
Havana is still unsold, Mr. Yocum may buy her, if you can rec.
ommond her as thoroughly seaworthy, and in every respect in
good order. I mentioned to him your price, $40,000 at New
Orleans.
Your friend D. is at Atlanta. It was absolutely impossible
for us to obtain any vessel here. Furthermore, heavy bonds
were required to obtain permission to take out cargo, and he
deemed it advisable tc invest in some favorable enterprise in

634

THE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Georgia,* temporarily, until we could -find some opportunity to
do so here. He is well and sends his best regards.
Please show your best attentions to Mr. Yocum, and assist
him as much as you possibly can. He is under heavy bonds to
take his shipment to Havana. You will, therefore, please to have
it immediately released and clearedfor that port.
Please. hand the inclosure to address, with my best compliments.

You can rely implicitly on Mr. Yocnun in all he says. It will
be done faithfully.
R. W.
Truly yours,
The vessel, however, was not documented at all for New
Orleans. The shipping articles, her clearance, bill of health,
manifest (sworn to by the captain, Netto), all presented
"Havana, Cuba," as the port of destination. And the viceconsul of Spain, in Mobile, certified that the goods, in the
manifest were the same which had been cleared from the
consulate for that port.
The vessel set sail from Mobile in the daytime of the 8th
May' When five miles southeast of Fort Morgan, which
commands the entrance. to Mobile barbeik, and at about 12
o'clock, midnight, she was captured and sent to Key West,
where she was libelled in the District Court for Southern
Florida in prize. She had made no resistance, and all her
papers, including the "license," were given up. Among
them was this one:
MOBILE, ALA., -May 8th, 1863.

N. Yocum has credit on the books of J. Hohenstein & Co.,
$150,034, and $17,000 subject to settlement between J. IHohen.
stein and N. Yocum.
J. RlOHENSTEiN & CO.
The captain and the supercargo were the only persons
examined in preparatorio.
1. As to the port of destination.
The supercargo said that his directions from Hohenstein
& Co. were to drop down to the fleet off Mobile, supposing
A State at the time in rebellion.-Rzr.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SEA LION.

635

Statement of the case.

that the officers of the fleet would assist them to get to the
mouth of the Mississippi, where he was to communicate
He added, that the vessel was
with Ilohenstein & Co.
dropping down with the tide and did not change her course
when taken.
The captain stated that when the vessel was cleared he
expected to go to Havana. "After passing Fort Morgan the
supercargo, Mr. Yocum, said we would go to the mouth of
the Mississippi to go to New Orleans. I should have taken
her 'wherever the supercargo said."
These two persons, the captain and supercargo, on the
next day filed a claim for the vessel in behalf of Brott, Davis
d' Shons, swearing that the vessel was bound in good faith to
the port of New Orleans, there to deliver her cargo in pursuance of the license of G. S. Denison, special agent of the

Treasury Department.
Brott & Davis also made joint affidavit as "claimants of
the schooner Sea Lion and of the cargo laden and found on
said schooner." It was read in evidence, by consent:
"That on the 16th February, 1863, they obtained from G. S.
Denison, Esq,, special agent of the Treasury Department, and

acting collector of customs at New Orleans, a license to bring
cotton and other produce from beyond the military lines of the
United States, and from within the Confedorate lines, into the
port of New Orleans; that the said license was approved by
D. G. Farragut, Rear Admiral; that thereupon the agents of
these respondents, Mlessrs. Oliver & Worne, inMobile, Alabama,
acting on behalf of these respondents, loaded the schooner; that
in the latter part of March, 1863, the said agents proceeded from

New Orleans to Mobile for the purpose of shipping the said
cargo, and were furnished with the license from Collector Denison and Admiral Farragut, which was placed in the hands of
Mr. N. Yocum, who went on board the said schooner as supercargo, and express instructions were given by claimants to their
agents to bring the said schooner, with her cargo, to this port
of INew Orleans; that it always was their design and intention
to cause said schooner and her cargo to be brought to New Or.
leans and not to be taken to any other place whatsoever; and
that it was their intention to ship the said cargo from this port

imT SEA LION.

[Sup. Ut.

Statement of the case.

according to law, to the best market. And they further depose
that each and every member of the firm of Brott, Davis & Shons,
is a loyal citizen of the United States, and that no enemy of the
United States has any property or interest in the said schoonei
and cargo."
Hubbell, also,'the passenger, whose affidavit was received
by consent, stated:
"That although the schooner was cleared for Havana as a
necessity, and in blind, in order to get out of the port of Mobile,
he understood she was going-to New Orleans, and that he was
.bound for and expected to go to New Orleans, and that he was
told by the supercargo of the said Sea Lion that it was his intention when off the bar to lay alongside of the blockading fleet
in order to obtain a permit to come to New Orleans; that the
said schooner came out of the ' swash channel,' and that when
over the bar, instead of following the channel down the coast,
as is the usual custom of blockade-runners, she stood out for
the blockading fleet to obtain the beforementioned permit; that
as evidence of the intention of the supercargo to-place the said
schooner in the hands of the blockading fleet, he took her out
when the wind was very light, so that she was not able to sail
over two knots an hour, and that it was with difficulty he induced the pilot to take her out with such a wind; that the
schooner hove to on hearing the first gun from the blockading
fleet, and awaited being captured."
2. As to the ownership of the vessel and cargo.
In the claim to the vessel, interposed by the captain and
supercargo, Netto and Yocum, both captain and supercargo
swore that, as they were "informed and believed," the vessel
and cargo were the property of Brott, Davis & Shons, and
that no enemy of the United States had any property or interest therein; and on the examination in preparation the
supercargo said:
"I believe that Oliver & Worne and Brott, Davis & Shons, are
owners of the schooner. I only know them to be owners by
their own representations and by their having the management
of her. I befieve they own the cargo. The spirits of turpen-

Dec. 1866.1

THE ;SEA LION.
Argument for tle claimants.

tine belonged to the crew. I have no interest. I was to receive
$500 as supercargo."
On the same examination the captain said:
"The cotton, I think, belonged to Brott, Davis & Shons. The
supercargo told me it so belonged. I did not know anything
more about its ownership. It was to be delivered wherever the
supercargo said."
A certificate from the military governor of Louisiana,
read by consent, stated that the firm of Brott, Davis & Co.
were well known to him "as unconditionally loyal."
The District Court condemned the vessel.
Messrs. W. ff. Evartn and flen-.y Flanders,for the claimants,
appellants in the case:
I. As to the facts.
The evidence establishes, we submit1. That the cargo and vessel were the property of loyal
citizens of the United States.
2. That the voyage was authorized by the civil and naval
authorities of the United States, and was undertaken solely
with the view of giving up the vessel and cargo to the blockading fleet, in accordance with such authorization.
3. Th. the permit in favor of the claimants was employed
in good faith.
The evidence as meant apparently to be relied on in support of the decree below, points to two matters only as giving the case a bad aspect.
1. An argument will perhaps be made against the claimants from the documented character of the vessel. But
Worne, acting for Brott, Davis & Co., necessarily employed
-is agents, such persons as could be useful in the business
about which they were employed. E mbarked in a transaction such as this was, " compelled," iuthe language of Lord
Stowell, applied to persons similarly situated, "to pick their
way in fear and silence," walking, as it were, at every step,
over burning ploughshares, these agents had necessarily to

THE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

employ great caution and a certain amount of subterfuge.
" This," said Lord Stowell, in a case like this,* " is not very
much matter of surprise or of serious judicial animadversion." They were obliged, in order to accomplish their agency,
to deceive the enemy. That, of course. If they had avowed
their purpose, proclaimed that the vessel and cargo were the
property of loyal citizens of the United States, and documented the vessel in accordance with the facts, it is easy to
perceive that both agents and agency would have been
strangled in the outset. The master and crew believed that
they were destined on a voyage to Havana; the Confederate
military and civil authorities believed the same thing. On
that belief alone could the vessel have obtained her clearance. That all this was a deception, and that the real destination was New Orleans, the testimony of Mr. Hubbell, a
witness above all question, makes certain.
There is no motive that can be well suggested or conceived that could induce the claimants or their agents to act
a part that was not open, fair, and consistent with the main
and avowed design. They wished to bring out from Mobile
this cargo of cotton, and being authorized to do so, they had
no motive to evade the blockade. Their only concern was
to get safely past the hostile batteries and place their property under the protection of the blockading fleet. There
was no spoliation of papers or cargo, no attempt at resistance or escape; but an open, voluntary surrender.
2. An argument may be attempted from the memorandun as to the $150,034, and from Yocum's letters of introduction.
The former was simply an acknowledgment, on the part
of J. Hohenstein & Co., that Yocum had credit on their
books for $150,000, subject to settlement between the partners. As to the letters, it is, so far as this case is concerned,
of no sort of importance what purposes Mr. Yocum had in
view at New Orleans. The letter to Mr. Pileher relates
to Mr. Yocum's business and purposes, and not to the busi* The Goede Hoop, Edwards, 827.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SEA LION.
Argument for the claimants.

ness and purposes of Brott, Davis & Shons. It is true, Mr.
Pilcher is informed that Yocum is under heavy bonds to
take his shipment to Havana, and lae is requested to have it
released and cleared for that port. The meaning is easily
explained: In order to get this cotton out of Mobile, the
civil and military requirements of the port had to be complied with. Among others, a bond had to be given that it
should be taken to the asserted port of destination. Th
lefter means to say, that if it should be understood in Mobile that the cargo was taken to New Orleans, and there
protected, Yocum's bondsmen would be prosecuted for the
penalty. Hence the anxiety for the reshipment of the cotton to Havana.
3. The iact that the departure from Mobile was so timed
as to bring the Sea Lion out to sea at night, argues nothing
against iiir purpose. The vessel had, of necessity, to escape under cover of the darkness. Does any one suppose
that the civil and naval authorities at Mobile would have
permitted her to go out in broad day, in full view of the
fleet, and to have thus rendered her capture certain ? The
attempt to have done so would 'have disclosed the purpose
of the voyage, and have induced the seizure of the vessel
and cargo, and death to every person concerned in the transaction.
The conduct, then, of the claimants throughout this transaction, we assume to have been open and fair.
II. As to the law.
1. The order of Admiral Farragut to his commander of
;he Mobile blockade, not to capture vessels and cargoes in
the situation of the Sea Lion and cargo, together with his
indorsement of the "permit" of the acting collector, were
acts incidental to his position, and privileged this vessel and
cargo from capture.
In The Rlope,* where the commander of one squadron
gave a license with a view to exempt a ship and cargo from
capture by another squadron, Lord Stowell expressly de1 Dodson, 226.

THlE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the claimants.

clared that the admiral on a station has power relative to
the ships under his immediate command, and can restrain
them from committing acts of hostility; though he said that
the commander could not grant a safeguard of this kind beyond the limits of his own station.
Admiral Farragut did not go beyond the limits of his own
station, but was acting within them. And he had given explicit orders to the commander of his squadron,-orders
which must have been communicated at the time of the
seizure in question to every vessel of' the squadron,-that
property in the predicament of that of the claimants should
not be regarded as hostile, but be sent to New Orleans for
an examination of the iacts. Besides, by indorsing the permit of the acting collector he adopted and made it his own,
and every officer of his command was bound to respect and
enforce it.
2. Even if the act of Admiral Farragut, in privileging the
property of the claimants from capture, was irregular, it by
no means follows that such property is condemnable as
prize. Where the owners stand clear of any intention of
fraud their act is not illegal, although its authorization may
have been irregular.
In the Vrow Barbara,*the vessel was taken on her voyage
from Iliavre to Hamburg. She had been stopped and examined in going to Havre, and had been informed in effect
that she miglit go there. The master knew of the blockade, but understood it had been relaxed. Lord Stowell restored the property, on the ground that she had been permitted to go in.
In The Jlenricus,* the master had. been permitted by one
of the blockading fleet to go in with a cargo of coal, and
was captured in coming out. The court held that the permission to go in with a cargo included the permission to
come out with a cargo: that is to say, a mere inferential permission to bring out a cargo was respected.
In The Venscab,* the same principle was applied: "I beg
Reported in the notes to The Juffrow Maria Schroder, 3 Robinson, 166.

Dec. 1866.1

TInE SEA LION.

641

Argument for the claimants.

it may be understood," said Lord Stowell, "that I hold the
blockade to have existed generally, though individual ships
are entilled to an exemption from penalty, in consequence
of the irregular indulgence shown them by the blockading
force."
The Juifrow Maria Schroder* stood on the same ground,
and was decided on the same principle.
In The Jo1banna Maria,t Dr. Lushington, referring to the
cases just cited as applicable to the blockade of the Baltic
oorts. said:
"If it can be shown that any vessel has been permitted improperly to enter or come oit, I shall confer the benefit of restoration on a vessel so circumstanced."
He held, too, in accordance with Lord Stowell, and in accordance with universal public law, that such restoration, in
consequence of improper or irregular indulgence on the
part of a blockading force, or in consequence of a more
regular and formal license, did not have the effect to vitiate
a blockade.
Further: The order of General Banks, approved and
adopted by Admiral Farragut, was a legitimate exercise of
their authority. In granting these special licenses, they had
in view only public objects; they sought to obtain possession of an article which, by the policy of the hostile government, had become contraband of war, an article which this
court, in Mrs. Alexander's case,t held liable to capture from
its peculiar. character and the position given it by hostile
legislation. "It is well known," said the Chief Justice, in
delivering the opinion of the court in that case, " that cotton has constituted the chief reliance of the rebels for
means to purchase the munitions of war in Europe. It is
matter of history that, rather than to permit it to come into
possession of the National troops, the rebel government has
everywhere devoted it, however owned, to destruction. The
3 Robinson, 155.
2 Wallace, 404.
VoL

v.

t Deane on the Law of Blockade, 86, 116
41

THE SEA, LION.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

value of that destroyed at New Orleans, jList before its capture, has been estimated at $80,000,000. The rebels regard
it as One of their main sinews of war, and no principle of
equity or just policy required, when the National occupation
was itself precarious, that it should be spared from capture,
and allowed to remain in case of the withdrawal of the
Union troops an element of strength to the rebellion."
It was this peculiar property, this element of power and
Strength, this support of the Confederate treasury at home
and abroad, that [he military commanders sought to withdraw from the control of the enemy and subject to the control of the government. It was a means of coercing the
hostile power; an operation of war under the guise of trade.
It will not be denied that General Banks could organize
military expeditions to capture this property, so important
to the enemy and so important to us also. Could he not accomplish the same object by calling to his aid traders, who,
under the stimulus of gain, would penetrate the hostile territory and bring out this support of the hostile existence?
General Banks and Admiral Farragut were not thinking of
commercial intercourse, but of crippling the enemy, and depriving him of his chief resource and main reliance. They
were acting and prosecuting the war in one of the modes
which, in the exercise of the large discretion incident to
their position, they were entitled to select. They did not
authorize general trade, general commercial intercourse irrespective of time or place or commodity (that to which neutrals might have objected); but what may be called a belligerent trade in its objects and purposes, limited to a particular article, and that everywhere within the hostile territory liable to capture.
3ir. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, and Mr. Cushing,
contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The vessel and cargo were captured and condemned as

Dec. 1866.]

THE SEA LION.
Opinion of the court.

prize of war. The appellants seek to reverse the decree
upon the ground that both were protected by a license.
The validity and effect of the alleged license is the main
question to be considered. Before proceeding to examine
that subject, there are several other features of the case
which invite remark and must not be passed by in silence.
The vessel was fitted out and loaded at Mobile, which was
then enemy territory, and in a state of stringent blockade
The cargo consisted of two hundred and seventy-two bales
of cotton, and seven barrels of turpentine. She left Mobile
on the 8th of May, 1863, under the Confederate flag. She
had no other. About 12 c'1ock in the night of the 9th of
May, and about four miles southeast from Fort Morgan, she
was discovered, fired upon, stopped, seized, and sent to Key
West, where the decree of condemnation was subsequently
pronounced.
Netto was her captain, and Yocum the supercargo. There
were on board, besides them, a crew of seven men and two
passengers. Certain papers were found which passed into
the hands of the captors, and to which it is proper to advert.
The ship's register set forth that it had been sworn by M.
D. Eslava, that Yocum & Ilohenstein, a firm in Mobile,
under the name of J. Iiohenstein & Co., were the sole owners of the vessel. The shipping articles engaged the crew
to navigate the vessel from Mobile to Havana. The manifest sworn to by Netto, stated that the cargo was intended
to be conveyed to that port. The Spanish consul certified
that the goods named in the manifest, were on board and
destined for Havana. The clearance, signed by the deputy
collector, was for the same plade. A letter from Oliver &
Worne introduced Yocun to Brott, Davis & Shons, of' New
Orleans, and expressed the hope that lively business transactions between the two houses would follow. Another letter from the same firm to Pileher, the President of the Bank
of New Orleans, asked him to aid in Yocum's business,
which it was said Yocum would explain to him. A memorandum, signed by Hiohenstein & Co., stated that Yocum

644

THE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

had credit on their books for $150,000, and for $17,000, subject to a settlement between him and Hohenstein. The
paper, relied upon as a license, was also found on board, and
delivered over by Yocum to the captors. After the vessel
was libelled, a claim was interposed by Netto and Yocum in
behalf of Brott, Davis & Shons. It is under oath, and states
that they believe the vessel and cargo are the property of
that firm. Yocum states that he was put in charge of the
catrgo by one Worne, whom he believes to be a partner of
Brott, Davih & Shons. They further say that the vessel was
bound in good faith to New Orleans, there to deliver her
cargo in pursuance of the license.
Brott and Davis gave their affidavit in preparatorio. They
insist upon the license, and allege that it was their intention
to cause the vessel and cargo to be taken to New Orleans.
They aver that they are loyal citizens, and that no enemy of
the United States had any interest in the vessel or cargo.
The affidavit is very full as to the procuring and transmission of the alleged license, and as to the loading of the vessel at Mobile by their agents; but is wholly silent as to who
are the owners, and does not allege the whole or any part
of the ownership to be in themselves. Under the circumstances, this omission can hardly be deemed accidental. It
has very much the appearance of the caution of a special
plea. Netto and Yocum were also examined in preparatorio.
They repeat their belief as to the ownership, except that
Netto etates the turpentine to have belonged to himself and
the crew. Netto also states, that after they had passed Fort
Morgan, Yoeum told him New Orleans was their destination, and that he would have obeyed Yocum's order to take
the vessel there. Yocum testifies that he was only supercargo, that he was to receive $500 for his services, and that
he had no interest in the property. lIe said further, that
from what he had heard Worne say in Mobile, his understanding was, that the vessel and cargo belonged to Brott, Davis &
Shons, and Oliver & Worne. His instructions were to proceed to the mouth of the Mississippi-thence to communicate with Brott, Davis & Shons, and to await orders from

Dec. 1866.]

THE

SEA

LION.

645

Opinion of the court.

them. Hubbel, one of the passengers, in his examination
in preparaorio,says that the clearance was taken for Iavana
as a blind to enable the vessel to get away. Yocum told
him at Mobile that she was going to New Orleans. As evidence of Yocum's intention to take her to the blockading
fleet, he says, that when she started the wind was so low
that she could not make more than two miles an hour, and
that hence it was difficult to prevail on the pilot to take
her out.
In regard to the important fact last mentioned the captain
and supercargo are wholly silent.
In the light of this testimony, it is difficult to resist the
conclusion that the vessel left Mobile, with alternative purposes; one, if possible to evade the blockading fleet and
make Havana; the other, if intercepted and seized, to set
up the license and insist upon the pretext, that she was proceeding, under its authority, in good faith to New Orleans.
As we shall not place our judgment upon this ground, it is
unnecessary further to pursue the subject.
The license relied upon is as follows:
CUSTOi

HousE, NEw ORLEANS,

COLLECTOR'S OFFICE, :February 16th, 1863.

The United States military and other authorities at New Orleans permit cotton to be received here f'om beyond the United
States military lines, and such cotton is exempt from seizure or
confiscation. An order is in my hands from Major-Gencral
Banks approving and directing this policy. The only condition
imposed is that cotton or other produce must not be bought
with specie.
All cotton or other produce brought hither from the Confederate lines by Brott, Davis & Shons will not be interfered with
in any manner, and they can ship it direct to any foreign or
domestic port.
GEORGE S. DENISON,
Special Agent of the Treas. Dep't and Acting Collector of Customs.

Approved.

D. G.

FAItRAGUT,
Rear Admiral.

The effect of this paper depends upon the authority under

646

THE SEA LION.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

which it was issued. The fifth section of the act of July
13th, 1861, authorized the President to proclaim any State
or part of a State in a condition of insurrection, and it declared, that thereupon all commercial intercourse between
that territory and the citizens of the rest of the United States,
should cease and be unlawful, so long as the condition of
hostility should continue, and that all goods and merchandise coming from such territory, into other parts of' the
United States, and all proceeding to such territory by land
or water, and the vessel or vehicle conveying them, or conveying persons to or from such territory, should be forfeited
to the United States: " Provided, however, That the President
may, in his discretion, license and permit commercial intercourse with any such part of said State or section, the inhabitants of which are so declared in a state of insurrection,
in such articles, and fir such time, and by such persons, as
he, in his discretion, may think most conducive to the public
interest; and such intercourse, so far as by him licensed,
shall be conducted and carried on only in pursuance of rules
and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. "
There is no other statutory provision bearing upon the
subject, material to be considered.
On the 16th day of August, 1861, the President issued his
proclamation declaring the inhabitants of the rebel States,
including Alabama, to be in a state of insurrection.
On the 28th of the same month the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to the provisions of the act referred to, issued
a series of regulations upon the subject of commercial intercourse with those States.
These regulations continued in force until the 31st of
March, 1863, when a new series were issued by the same
authority. The former were in force when the. alleged license bears date; the latter when the vessel and carg( left
Mobile and when they were captured. It is unnecessary to
analyze them. It is sufficient to -remark, that they contain
nothing which affords the slightest pretext for issuing such
a paper. It is in con/flict with rules and requirements con-

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MACDONALD.

647

Statement of the case.

tained in both of them. It finds no warrant in the statute
The statute prescribes that the President shall license the
trade. The only function of the Secretary was to establish
the riles by which it slould be regulated, when thus permitted. The order of General Banks is not produced. If
it were as comprehensive as the special agent assumed it to
be, it covered shipments to New Orleans frorn Wilmingtoni,
Charleston, and all other points in the rebel States. It embraced merchandise, coming alike from places within, and
places beyond his military lines. With respect to the latter
it was clearly void. The President only could gratnt such,,a
license. Mobile was then in possession of the eecmy. The
vessel and cargo bore the stamp of the enemy property.
The paper relied upon was a nullity, and gave them no protection. They were as much liable to capture and condemnation as any other vessel or cargo, leavin~g a blockaded port
and coming within reach of a blockading vessel.
The decree below was rightly rendered, and it is
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice GRIER:
I do not concur in this judgment. The vessel went out
of Mobile by permission of the commander of the blockade
there. To condemn such property would be a violation of
good faith. No English court has ever condemned under
such circumstances.

UNITED STATES V.

MACDONALD.

A collector of customs is entitled to retain, under the fifth section of the act
of March 3d, 1841 (5 Stat. at Large, 432), a sum not exceeding $2000

per annum from his receipts, as storage for the custody and safe-keeping of imported merchandise entered for warehousing and stored in
bonded warehouses.

THE fifth section of the act of March 3d, 1841, enacts that
in addition to the account required to be rendered by every

