Dec. oOOJ

DEERY V.

CRAY.

Syllabus.

certificates of purchase and the issuing of the patents; and
section 30 declares: " This act shall not apply to the marsh
and tide lands upon the city front, and within five miles of
the city and county of San Francisco," &c. And section 31
provides that "all acts and parts of acts in conflict with the
provisions of this act are hereby repealed."
This act adopts a general system for the sale of certain
specified classes of the public lands, and, among others,
marsh and tide lands, and, as we have seen, repeals in express terms all previous laws inconsistent or in conflict with
it. And, of course, if any previous law existed authorizing
a sale of these lands within five miles of the city of San
Francisco, which the 30th section of this act prohibits, it
must be regarded as repealed.
We need only add, the sale of the lot in question was
made after the passage of this act. There being no authority to sell the land in question or issue the certificate, it follows that the plaintiff is without title, and the court below
was right in giving judgment for the defendant.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD did not sit in the case, or take any
part in its decision.

DEERY V. CRAY.
1. No person can rely on an estoppel growing out of a transaction to which
he wai neither a party nor a privy, ard which in no manner touches his
rights,
Hence where a plaintiff claims under A. and his deed, defendants who do
not claim under it cannot set up its recitals as estoppels.
2. Where an heir conveys both as heir, and also as executor under a power

in a will which his deed recites, the fact that his deed thus acknowledges
a will does not estop a party dlaiming under the deed to assert that the

grantor inherited as heir.
8. Where numerous leading facts point to the conclusion that every part of

a large tract of land (an old manor) divided into several parts has been
held under an ancient deed (one of the year 1785), from the date of the
deed till the present time, the fact that, every link of the title, in all

796

DEERY V. CRAY.

[Sup Ct

Statement of the case.
partt of the tract, cannot now be specifically shown, is not enough to
avoid the presumption that the tract is held under such deed.
4. The presumption being established, recitals in the deed, consistent with
the other evidence in the case, may be used as proof against persons who
are not parties to the deed and who claim no right under it.
5. A certificate by the proper officers, that a feme covert being "privately
examined, apart from and out of the hearing of her husband,' acknowledged, &c., is a sufficient compliance with the Maryland statute of 1807,
which requires the examination to be "out of the presence" of the husband. The expressions are equivalent.
6. When it is sought to apply the rule that a court of error will not reverse
where an error works no injury, it must appear beyond doubt that the
error complained of neither did prejudice nor could have prejudiced the
party against whom the error was made.
Hence where by an error of the court below a plaintiff had not been
allowed to'introduce the first item of her testimony, and had no interest
therefore to show anything which might avoid the proof of the other
side-proof which, though apparently fatal to her case, even though the
error had not been made, she might, possibly, have avoided if the court
had not committed the error, but had given her a standing in the case
which would have made it avail her to avoid such opposite proof-the
judgment was reversed.

THIs was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit
Court for the District of Maryland, by Eliza C. Deery, to recover an undivided third part of a tract of land, called Kent
Fort Manor, on Kent Island, in Queen Anne's County, Ma-

ryland. The defendants were Cray, Bright, and others, occupying different parts of the tract.
Miss Deery, the plaintiff, was the daughter of Elizabeth
Chew, who married William Deery, and afterwards, in second marriage, Eli Beatty. The Elizabeth Chew thus married was the daughter of Samuel Lloyd Chew the younger,
who died about the year 1796, intestate, leaving the said
Elizabeth Chew, and also three others, his children and
heirs-at-law. The effort of the plaintiff was to trace title,
from the original patentee of Kent Fort Manor to her grandfather, Samuel Lloyd Chew, from whom she claimed through
her mother, who died the wife of Eli Beatty in 1888. Title
was shown regularly enough down to a certain William
Brent, of Virginia.
In the progress of the trial she took six bills of exception to rulings of the court on the admissibility.of evideiee.

Dec. 1866.]

DEERY v. CRAY.

797

Statement of the case.

It is only necessary to refer to the fourth and sixth exceptions, those being the only ones considered by this court,
because, as the court said, the fourth referred to and embodied all that was contained in the three previous bills of
exception on the same subject; and because the conclusions
of the court on the question raised by that bill of exceptions
rendered the matter involved in the fifth unimportant.
As regarded this fourth and this sixth exception the case
was thus:
1. As to the fourth. Having read to the jury without objection evidence tending to show title and possession of the
land in the above-mentioned William Brent, from the year
1767, the plaintiff offered to read a copy of a deed, certified
front the proper recording office, purporting to be made
by Elinor Brent, executrix, and Daniel Carroll Brent and
William Brent, acting executors,* of the last will-and testament of the William Brent first mentioned, conveying the
manor to Samuel Chew. This deed recited that William
Brent, Sr., deceased, by his last will and testament, bearing date January 7, 1782, constituted the persons aforesaid
executors of the said will, and authorized them to sell and
convey in fee-siniple the land and premises' described in the
said deed, and that William Brent, who united in the conveyance as executor, was also heir-at-law of the said William
Brent, senior. The deed then undertook by apt language,
to convey by virtue of the will, 4nd William Brent also conveyed as heir-at-law, and they jointly and severally covenanted to wairant the title. The plaintSfl offered no evidence
of the existence of the will under which th executors professed
to act, nor of the heirship of Williarn Brent, one of the grantors, other than what was contained in the recitals of the deed; and
for want of such proof the court rejected the deed. Proof
had been made of fruitless search among title-papers and
records for the will recited.
The plaintiff then offered a mass of testimony designed to
show that the possession of the land had passed with the
* Described in the deed like their testator as "of Virginia."

798

DEERY V. CRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

said deed, and had been held under it, and in consistency
with it, for such a length of time as to raise a presumiption of the truth'of one or both of the recitals above mentioned.
To understand this testimony the better, it may be stated
that the whole tract is divided first into two parts by a line,
below which lies a part called "the lowermost half part,"
now claimed by the defendant Cray. The upper half is divided into three parts, one to the east called Long Point
farm, another next westwardly called the Indian Point
(or Green's Creek) farm, and a third, more westerly yet,
about which there was no dispute. The three together
make up the northern half.
The evidence thus offered in support of the deed was
partly documentary and partly parol. Taking the former
chronologically it presented:
1. The will of Samuel Chew, the grantee, in the deed
dated November 24th, 1785, about six months after the date
of that conveyance to him. He died the succeeding year.
By this will lie devised Kent Fort Manor to his wife, Elizabeth Chew, for life, and after her death to his son, Samuel
Lloyd Chew.
2. A mortgage of Kent Fort Manor by Samuel Lloyd
Chew to Charles Carroll of Carrollton, dated February 20th,
1789, shortly after the death of his father.
3. A deed from Philip Barton Key to Arthur Bryan, dated
May 7th, 1798, conveying " all that moiety or half-part of
Kent Fort Manor, on Kent Island, in Queen Anne's County,
being the lowermost lbalf-part of said tract of land called Kent
Fort Manor, and is the same land and half-part of which
Mrs. Chew was heretofore seized." This deed had a full
covenant of warranty.
4. An agreertient of counsel that the land thus conveyed
to Arthur Bryan was partitioned among his heirs in 1802,
by the Chancery Court of Maryland, and allotted to Susanna
Tait, sister of said Arthur.
5. A deed from Samuel A. Chew, son of Samuel Lloyd

Dec. 1866.]

-DEERY V. CRAY.

Statement of the case.

Chew, dated March 6th, 1838, conveying to Thomas Murphy
Long Point farm, a part of Kent Fort Manor.
6. A deed from said Samuel A. Chew oo James Bright,
Jr., dated January 4th, 1840, conveying' Indian Point farm,
another part of said manor.
These two farms, as already said, were on the north half
of the manor, and form no part of the.land conveyed by
Key to Bryan.
All these documents were copies, properly certified to
come from the recording offices where such deeds should
rightfully be recorded.
The parol evidence showed that Samuel Chew, first of the
name and grantee in the deed, died in 1786; that his son,
Samuel Lloyd Chew, second of the name, died in 1796, leaving as his heirs Samuel A. Chew, third of the name, Bennett
Chew, Henrietta Chew, and Elizabeth Chew. The plaintiff,
as already said, was daughter of the last-named person., and
in that right claimed the property in controversy. Elizabeth
Chew, widow of the first Samuel Chew and his devisee for
life of the property, died in 1807. It was further shown that
one William Bryan, who in 1802 resided on Long Point
farm and Indian Point farm, and who had resided there for
several years previous, stated repeatedly that he held his
possession under the Chews; that in 1825 Samuel A. Chew,
third of the name and uncle to plaintiff; took possession of
about five hundred acres of the north part of said manor,
west of Long Point and Indian Point farms, which he held
until his death, in 1843, and that the same was now held
under that title; that Robert Tait, son and heir of Susanna
Tait, was in 1825 in possession of the southern half of the
manor, and sold it to Richard Cray, his son-in-law, and that
possession was now held under that title.
All this being finally offered with the deed, they were rejected by the court, to which rejection an exception-the
fourth one in the case-was taken.
2. As to the sixth exception. In the further progress of the
trial some of the defendants offered in evidence a deed from
the plaintiff's mother, then married to Beatty, to Samuel A.

DERY V. CRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Chew, her uncle, purporting to convey all her interest in
Kent Fort Manor. As the plaintiff claimed as heir-at-law
of her mother, this deed, if admitted, was apparently destructive of her claim. Her counsel objected to the admission of the deed on the ground that it was defectively acknowledged.
By statutes in Maryland, femes covert can convey their
lands by deed acknowledged before two justices of the
county court, such acknowledgment being made by the
woman "out of the presence and hearing of her husband;"
the clerk of the court certifying that they were the "justices
of the said court." In the case of the deed from the plaintiff's mother, now offred, the acknowledgment in that part
relating to the presence of the husband, ran thus:
"STATE

OF MARYLAND, to Wit:

"Be it remembered, that on this 26th of October, 1821, personally appeared before us, two justices of the peace of the State
of Marylandfor Washington County, the above-named Eli Beatty
and Elizabeth his wife, and Henry C. Schnebly and Henrietta
Maria his wife, party grantors in the foregoing instrument of
writing, and severally acknowledged the same to be their and
each of their act and deed, &c., and the said Elizabeth C. Beatty,
wife of Eli Beatty, &c., being by us, two justices of the peace as
aforesaid, respectively, privately examined apart from and out of
the hearing of their and each of their husbands, whether they and
each of them doth make their acknowledgment of the said instrument of writing willingly and freely, &c."
The certificate of the clerk under the court's seal was:
"STATE

OF MARYLAND, WASHINGTON

COUNTY, Ss:

"I hereby certify that, &c, whose names are signed to the
above acknowledgment, were, at the time of signing thereof, and
still are, justices af the peace for the county aforesaid, duly commissioned and qualified, and to all their aets as such full faith and credit
is, and ought to be, given, as well in courts of justice as thereout."
The objections made by the plaintiff to this certificate of
acknowledgment were:

Dec. 1866.]

DEERY v. CRAY.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

1. That it did not show that the justices who took the
acknowledgment had been sworn into office; nor
2. That they were justices of the county for which they
took the acknowledgment; nor
3. That Mrs. Beatty had been examined "out of the presence of her husband."
But the court overruled the objections, and an exception,
-the sixth in number on the record,-was taken.
The case was now here on the exceptions.
Mr. Brent, for the plaintiff in error, contended, 1. That the recitals in the deed from the executors of W. Brent being ancient recitals, were presumably true, and that the court had
erred in rejecting the deed upon the iass of proof, documentary and parol, showing that it had been followed by
long and harmonious possession on the part of the grantee,
and those claiming under him, down to the yea! 1840.
2. That the objection taken in the case of the deed said to
have been executed by Mrs. Beatty, especially the third objection, ought to have prevailed; decisions in Maryland relating to the acknowledgment of deeds by femes covert
being very strong to the point that the formula of acknowledgment presented by the statutes should be literally fillowed, equivalent words not being enough.*
Messrs. Wallis and Alexander contending, primarily, that
William Brent, who was a party to the deed as executor, did
not convey as heir-at-law, but in a different capacity, to wit,
in the capacity of one taking under the will, and that when
you set up the will you were estopped to set up heirship,heirship being incompatible with the very title sought to be
derived under the deed,-argued1. That if the deed were admitted, and all the proof given
to sustain it were admitted, it did not raise the presumption
that the recitals were true; that, independently of other matters (which the counsel urged), there was no evidence that
Steffey v. Steffey, 19 Maryland, 18; Johns v. Reardon, 11 Id. 469;
Hawkins v. Gould, 3 Harris & Johnson, 248.
VOL. V.
51

I)EERY V. CRAY.

[86p. C

Opinion of the court.

Samuel Lloyd Chew ever had possession; that in 1789 his
son mortgaged all his interest to Charles Carroll of Carrollton; and that no evidence being produced that this mortgage had been either paid or released, the plaintiff herself
had shown that title' had passed out of the ancestor under
whom she claimed. At this point the chain was completely
broken, and a hiatus made which no presumption supplies.
That this was. espe6ially true of the lowermost half-part,
where the title comes to Bryan, through Key alone, who
shows no title derived from any of the Chews at all.
That both in Virginia and Maryland wills were matter of
record, and that the failure to find a will anywhere proved
that none ever existed.
2. That the acknowledgment in the deed from the plaintiff's mother was substantially a compliance with the statute
in regard to the acknowledgment offenies covert, and if not,
that the defect was cured by certain curative acts of the
State; that at all events the deed had been rightly admitted.
8. That if the second deed was rightly received the plaintiff could not have recovered under any circumstances; and
that so, not having been prejudiced by rejection of the first
deed, and the evidence to support it, this court would not
reverse, even if they considered that there had been error in
that rejection; the plaintiff having no further case to litigate
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court,
and-having stated the facts of the offer of the copy of the
deed from the executors of W. Brent, and of the offef of
the mass of testimony designed to show that possession had
so passed with the deed, and had been held under -and in
consistency with it for such a length of time as to raise a
presumption of !the truth of one or both the recitals in'itwent on as .follows:
Before we proceed to examine the sufficiency of this evidence for the purpose for which it was offered, we shall notice a criticism of defendants' counsel in regard to the rnatter in the recitals, of which proof can be received. It is
said,. that by the recital of the existence of a will which au.

Dec. 1866.]

DEERY V.

CRAY.

803

Opinion of the court.

thorizes the executors of William Brent, Sr., to convey the
land, William Brent, Jr., and Samuel Chew, the grantee,
and all persons claiming under them, are estopped, from denying the existence of such a will, and from claiming any
benefit from the fact that William Brent; Jr., was heir-atlaw, and conveyed as such heir, as well as executor. The
proposition does not seem to us to be well founded. It may
be very true that William Brent and the other grantors in
that deed were estopped as against Samuel Chew to deny
the truth of anything recited in the deed. And if any controversy growing out of that tr'ansaction had ever arisen, in
which Samuel Chew, or any person claiming under him, was
adversary to William Brent, or any person claiming in his
right, the person claiming under the latter would have been
estopped from denying the existence of such a will as that
described in the deed, or that said Brent was heir to William Brent, Sr. But suppose that William Brent, some
years after the execution of this deed, had brought ain action of ejectment against a person who derived no right
under the deed, but who claimed adversely to the title of
both Brent and Chew, would William Brent, in that case,
have been estopped from claiming as heir of his father by
the recital of the will in his deed to Chew? Clearly not;
for the simple reason that no person can rely upon estoppel
growing out of a transaction to which he was not a party
nor a privy, and which in no manner touches his rights.
There is no mutuality, which is a requisite of all estoppels.
That is precisely the case before us. The plaintiff claims
under Brent and his deed. Defendants claim nothing under
that deed, and deny all connection with the title it purports
to give. They are strangers to it, and have no right to set
up its recitals as estoppels.
There is another reason why there can .be no such estoppel. It was the manifest intent of all the parties to the deed
that it should convey such title as might be conveyed under
the will, and if that should be invalid, convey such title as
William Brent had as heir-at-law. These purposes did not
necessarily defeat each other. There might have been a will,

804

DEERY V. CRAY.

[Sup., Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and it might have been doubtful whether it had been execu.
ted with the formalities necessary to transmit title to land in
Maryland, or to authorize the executors to do so. In such
case the purchaser had a right to take, also, for his security,
a conveyance from the heir-at-law. If he could do this by a
separate instrument, there is no reason why he could not do
it in the same instrument which professed to convey by authority of the will. The very nature of the case, therefore,
precludes the idea of estoppel; for, to say that a party claiming under that deed is estopped to assert that William Brent
inherited the land as heir-at-law, is to deprive him of a right
conferred by the deed, and which was one of the essential
conditions of its acceptance.
If, then, the testimony offered by plaintiff was sufficient
to raise the presumption that William Brent was heir-at-law
of the party who died seized, or that such a will existed as
that recited in the deed, then that instrument should have
been read to the jury.
The evidence offered in support of the deed may be
divided into that which is documentary and that which
is larol.

It is not necessary that we should go into a minute examination of the effect of this testimony. We are satisfied
that it affords a reasonable and fair presumption that every
part of Kent Fort Manor has been held under the deed
from William Brent and his co-executors to Samuel Chew,
from its date in 1785 till the present time. In reference to
the north half of the manor, there can be no reasonable
doubt of this proposition, for no one is in possession of any
part of it who does not hold under Samuel Chew, grandson
of the grantee, and son of Samuel Lloyd Chew, to whom
the manor was devised by that grantee. It is maintained,
however, that in reference to the southern half of the manor,
which is proved to have been held under the deed from
Philip Barton Key to Arthur Bryan, fiom the date of that
deed in 1798 to the present time, there is a hiatus which cat
be filled by no presumption. If, however, we recall the
statement in Key's deed to Bryan, that the land which he is

Dec. 1866.]

])EERY V.

CRAY.

Opinion of the court.

conveying "is the same land and half-part of Kent Fo't
Manor of which Mrs. Chew was heretofore seized," we can
have no difficulty in presuning that in some way Key had

become the owner of Mrs. Chew's title.

The lapse of time

and the reference to her seizin would be sufficient to authorize a jury to presume a conveyance by Mrs. Chew to Key,
or to some one from whom he derived title. This consideration is strengthened by the fict that Key covenants to
warrant the title to the land against all persons whomsoever.
It is unreasonable to believe that in the very deed in which
he makes this covenant he would admit Mrs. Chew's former
seizin and. point to her title, unless he had in sonie way become invested with that title, especially as she was still living
and could have asserted her right against Key's grantee, if
she had not in sonic manter parted with it.

Is it requiring too much to presume from these facts that
one or both the recitals in the rejected deed, and on which
its power to convey this land depends, are true ? Not a single circumstance is to be found inconsistent with the fict
that William Brent, one of the grantees in that deed, was
son and heir to William Brent, Sr. Nor is there anything
except the failure to find it, inconsistent with the existence
of such a will as is recited in that deed. When we consider that William Brent, Sr., died in Virginia ; that all the
grantees in the deed resided there ; that the system of re-

cording and proving wills had not then become so general
and so well understood as it has since, and that for eighty
years no occasion has arisen for the production of that will,
the failure to find it by parties who have no other relations
with the Brents than this one transaction of their ancestors,
does not argue so forcibly against its existence at that time,
as to overthrow the presumption arising from long possession of this manor, held under the supposition of the existence of such will.
That recitals of this kind in an ancient deed may be proved
as against persons who are. not parties to the deed, and who
claim no right under it, is too well settled to admit now of
contrpv rsy. Such is the doctrine of this court in (arcer v.

D)EERY V. CRAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Jackson,* and in Crane v. Astor and Morris.t The only question is, whether the facts justify such a presumption, and
we must say that, if they can do so in any case, we do'not
see how the inference can be resisted in the case before us.
It follows that the Circuit Court erred in refusing to admit
the deed offered by plaintiff as set out in the fourth bill of
exceptions.
2. In the further progress of the trial some of the defendants offered in evidence a deed from the plaintiff's mother
to Samuel A. Chew, her uncle, purporting to convey all her
interest in Kent Fort Manor. As plaintiff's efforts, as far
as developed, had been to establish a title as heir-at-law of
her mother, of course this deed, if admitted, was fatal prima
facie to her claim. 11er counsel objected to the admission
of the deed, and his objection being overruled, he took his
sixth bill of exceptions, which we now proceed to examine.
All the objections made to this deed relate to the certificate of acknowledgment. The first two are unimportant.
They are that it does not appear that the justices of the
Peace who took the acknowledgment were sworn into office,
or that they took the acknowledgment in the county of
which they were justices. We think that it is a presumption of law from the ficts stated in the certificate of the justices, and of the clerk of the county court, that both these
requirements were complied with.
.But it is also strenuously urged that the deed is void because th6 certificate does not show a compliance with the
law of Maryland then in force concerning the privy examination of married women. The act of 1807, which was in
force at that time, required this examination to be conducted
out of the presence and hearing of the husband, and the
point is made that it does not appear from the certificate
that Mrs. Beatty, the mother of plaintiff, was examined oui
of the presence of her husband, with whom she joined in the
conveyance.' The certificate recites*" that the said Elizabeth
" 4 Peters, 1.
- 6 Peters, 598. See also Raymond v. Dennis, 4 Binney, 814; Stokes v,
Daws, 4 Maso 1, 248.

Dec. 1.866.]

DEI 1Y V. CRAY.
Opinion of the co1t.

C. Beatty, wife of Eli Beatty, and Henrietta Schnebly, wife
of Henry Schnebly, being by us, justices of the peace as
aforesaid, respectively, privately examined apart from, and
out of the hearing of their, and each of their husbands,
did," &c. Now,. although the words "out of the presence"
are not used here, we are of opinion that the words which
are used ,show necessarily and conclusively that the examination was had out of the presence of the husband.
In the first place, 't was had priately. As the object of
the statute was not to provide for strict privacy from all
persons, but only privacy from the husband, it is to be supposed that it was in this sense the justices used the word.
It is also stated that she was examined apart friom her husband. This expression is still stronger, and can mean nothing less than that the husband was not present when she
was examined; and, to make it still clearer that this exam
ination, private and apart from her husband, was out of his
presence, it is further certified that it was out of his hearing.
Some decisions of the Supreme Court of Maryland have
been cited to show that the rule there is a strict one as to
the agreement between the certificate and the statute, but
none which overturns the doctrine recognized by that court,
as it has been by all others, that equi-valent words, or words
which convey the same meaning, may be used instead of
those to be found in the statute: We are satisfied that within this principle the certificate in tIhis case is a compliance
with the act of 1807, and that there was no error in admitting the deed to be read to the jury.
It is claimed that, if we shall find this deed to be valid,
we must affirm the judgment, although we may find error
in the previous rulings of the court, upon the ground that
this conveyance shows that plaintiff has no title to the land,
and that therefore such error is without prejudice to her
rights. We concede that it is a sound principle that no
judgment should. be reversed in a court of cri'orwhen the
error complained of works no injury to the party against
whom -the ruling was made. Butwhenever the application

808

[Sup. Ct

LEE V. DODGE.
Statement of the case.

of this rule is sought, it must appear so clea'r as to be beyoud doubt that the error did not and could not have prejudiced the party's rights. In the case before us this is not
so clear. The plaintiff, by reason of the error of the court,
had never been permitted to 'introduce the first step in.
the proof of her case. She had no interest in offering to
show anything which might avoid the force of the deed read
by defendants. If she could have proved it a fbrgery it
would have done her no good in this suit, because she had
failed, under the erroneous ruling of the court, to make out
a prima facie case for herself. We cannot assume here that
she might not have successfully avoided the effect of that
deed, if the court had given her a standing in the case
which would have made it avail her to do so.
The judgment of the Circuit Court must therefore be REand the case remanded, with directions to award

VERSED,

A

NEW TRIAL.

LEE v. iDODGE.
in this case, which was a controversy of fact chiefly, a decree of conveyance
of land alleged. to have been agreed, by correspondence, to be conveyed,
was refused; the court being compelled, from all the circumstances in

proof, to think that the only witness who testified that P letter making
a proposition of sale had been answered, accepting it, labored under a
mistake.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Illinois.
The appellants were the heirs-at-law of G. W. Lee, and,
on the strength of the title which they had inherited from
him, had obtained in the Circuit Cout just named, a judgment in ejectment against Dodge afid others for a part of
lot 4, block 53, of the city of Chicago. The defendants in
that action set up a conveyance from Lee to Lois Cogswell,
and showed by sundry mesne conveyances, they were in pos-

