Dec. 1866.]

INSURANCE 'COMPANY V. RITOtInE.

541

Statement of the case.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. RI'rCHIE.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts in original -suits between citizens of
the same State, in internal revenue cases, conferred or made clear by

the act of June 30, 1864, "to provide internal revenue," &c. (13 Stat
at Large, 241), was taken away by the act of July 13th, 1866, "to reduce internal taxation, and to amend an act to provide internal reve
nue," &c. (14 Id. 172). And suits originally brought in the Circuik
Courts, and pending at the passage of this act, fell.

THIs was an appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court
for Massachusetts; dismissing a bill in equity, filed by the
Merchants' Insurance Company, a corporation created by
the laws of Massachusetts, and having its place of business in the
city of Boston in, that Slate, against James Ritchie, and E. L,
Pierce, the assessor and collector of internal revenue for the
third collection district of that same commonwealth, and both
citizens of it, praying that they might be enjoined from the
distraint and sale of the complainant's property for non-payment of a certain tax. The defendants demurred, for the
reason that the bill disclosed no ground for equitable relief.
The demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed.
Corning here, the case wats elaborately argued by Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and Mr. Ashton, Assistant A. G.,for the assessor
and collector, and by Messrs. S. Bartlett and . TV. Palfrey (by
brief) for the Insurance Company; the argument turning chiefly
on the matter of public policy on the one hand, in allowing
officers of the government to be embarrassed in the prompt
collection of its revenues by the strong and summary process
of injunction; and on the other hand, on the matter of private
rights of the citizen in precluding him from adequate remedy
against clearly illegal proceedings of government agents in
the assessment and collection of these revenues.
But a prelininary question, the question n.amely, whether
the suit as an internal revenue case could, under the statutes
(f the United States as now existing, be maintained at all,
-- the parties all being citizens of the same State,-cut off decision on these points, and renders a report of the principal
argument irrelative.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. RITCAIE.

[Slip. Ct,

Opinion of the court.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We meet upon the threshold of this cause a question of
jurisdiction.
The record discloses a suit in equity by the Merchants'
Insurance Company, a corporation under the laws of Massachusetts, having its place of business in the city of Boston,
against James Ritchie and E. L. Pievee, assessor and collector of internal revenue in the third collection district of that
commonwealth. Tile corporation constructively,* and Ritchic anti Pierce actually, are citizens of Massachusetts, And
the question is, Whether this suit, as a revenue case, can be
maintained by a citizen of Massachusetts against citizens of
the same State?
The Judiciary "Actof 1789 limited the jurisdiction of National courts, so far as determined by citizenship, to " suits
between a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
and a citizen of another State." And, except in relation to
revenue cases, this limitation has remained unchanged.
In 1833 an attempted nullification of the laws for the collection of duties on imports led to the enactment of a law,
one of the provisions of which conferred on the Circuit
Courts jurisdiction of "all ases in law or equity arising
under the revenue laws of the United States for which other
provisions had not been already made."t
Until the passage of this act no original action by a citizen of any State against a citizen of the same State could be
maintained in a National epurt, at law, or in equity, for injuries arising from the illegal exaetion of duties by collectors of revenue. Redress of such injuries could be obtained
only in the State courts, and the revisory jurisdiction of this
court could be invoked onlyunder the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
The act of 1833 made the right of action to depend not
altogether, as previously, upon the character of the parties
* Louisville Railroad Company v. Letson, 2 Howard, 554; Marshall v
Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co., 16 Id. 814.
t 4 Stat. at Large, 682.

Dec. 18G6.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. RITCHIE.
Opinion of the court.

as citizens or aliens, but also on the nature of the controversy, without regard to citizenship or alienage. Under
that act citizens of the same State might sue each other for
causes arising under the revenue laws. A citizen injured
by the proceedings of a collector might have an action
against him for the injury, though a citizen of the same
State with himself.
And the third section of the same act gave the right to
collectors or others who.might be sued in any State court,
on account of 'any act done under the revenue laws, to remove the action by a proper proceeding into a National
court.
The right to remove causes from State into National courts
had been long before given by the Judiciary Act, but it was
limited to certain classes of cases, which did not include
those arising under the laws for the collection of duties.
After the act of 1833 many suits, brought in the State
courts against collectors, were removed into the Circuit
Courts. The cases of Elliolt v. Swartwout* and -Bend v. Iloyt,t
were of th.is description. They were suits originally instituted in the Superior Court of New York, but removed to
the Circuit Court of th.e United States for the Southern District, to recover fron collectors of the port of New York
duties alleged to have been illegally exacted.
Under that act suits in equity in proper cases, as well as
actions at law, might have been maintained against collectors of customs by citizens of the same State; and upon the
enactment, under the exigencies created by civil war, of the
existing intdrnal revenue laws, it became a question whether
the general provisions of that act, giving jurisdiction of cases
under the revenue laws, extended to cases tinder the new
enactments.
This question was resolved by the internal revenue act of
1864, in the fiftieth section of which it was provided that the
provisions of the act of 1833 should extend to all cases arising under the laws for the collection of internal duties.1
*10 Peters. -137.

t 13 Id. 267.

0 813 Stat. lit Large, 241.

INSURANCE COMPANY

V. IITCHIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It was while this section of the act of 1864 was in force
that the suit in the present recdrd was brought. Had it
been suffered to remain in force the question of jurisdiction
now under consideration could not have arisen.
But it was repealed by the act of 1866,* without any saving of such causes as that before us. And not only was
there no such saving, but it was expressly provided that
"the act of 1883 shall not be so construed as to apply to
cases" arising under the act of 1864, or any amendatory
acts, "nor to any case in which the validity or interpretation of such act or acts shall be in issue."
The case before us is a case under the act of 1864. It is a
case of which, because of the fact that the appellants and
appellees are citizens of the same State, we have no jurisdiction except under the act of 1833. And the act of 1866 declares that the act of 1833 shall not be construed so as to
apply to such a case.
This is equivalent to a repeal of an act giving jurisdiction
of a pending suit. It is an express prohibition of the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by the act of 1833 in cases
arising under the internal revenue laws.
It is clear, that when the jurisdiction of a cause depends
upon a statute the repeal of the statute takes away the jurisdiction.t And it is equally clear, that where a jurisdiction,
conferred by statute, is prohibited by a subsequent statute,
the prohibition is, so far, a repeal of the statute conferring
the jurisdiction.
It is quite possible that this effect of the act of 1866 was
not contemplated by Congress. The jurisdiction given by
the act of 1833 in cases arising under the customs revenue
laws is not taken away or affected by it. In these cases suits
may still be maintained against collectors by citizens of the
same State. It is certainly difficult to perceive a reason for
discrimination between such suits and suits under the inter.
14 Stat. at Large, 172.
t Rex v. Justices of London, 3 Burrow, 1456 ; Norris v. Crocker, 18 Howard, 429.

Dec. 1866.]

THE BIRD OF PARADISE.

545

Syllabus.

iial revenue laws; but when terms are unambiguous we may
not speculate on probabilities of intention.
The rules of interpretation settled and established in the
construction of statutes deny to us jurisdiction of the controversy in the record, because it is- a suit between citizens
of the same State, and the juirisdiction of such suits in internal revenue cases, conferred by the acts of 18-33 and 1864,
is taken away by the act of 1866.
The appeal in this cause must therefore be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

THE BIRD O' PARADISE.
1. Ship-owners, as a general rule, have a lien upon the cargo for the freight,
and consequently may retain the goods after the arrival of the ship at the
port of destination until the payment is made. Presumption is in favor
of the lien, but it may be modified or displaced either by direct words
or by stipulations incompatible with the existence of such a right.
2. Insolvency of the shipper occurring while the goods are in transit, or before they tare delivered, will not absolve the carrier from an agreement
to take an acceptance on time, instead of cash, for the freight, nor authorize h'r'm, when he had made ueh an agreement, to' retain the goods
until the freight is paid. On the other bnd, as a bill of exchange or
promissory note given for a precedent debt does not extinguish the debt,
unless such was the agreement of the parties, a bill or note falling due
before the unloading of the cargo, and protested and unpaid, is no discharge of the lien; and the ship-owner, in such a case, may stand upon
it as fully us if the acceptance had never been given.
Hence, where, in the case of a vessel chartered from Liverpool to San
Francisco, freight was to " be paid in Liverpgol on unloading and right
delivery of the cargo," at a rate fixed by the parties, ''such
freight
to be paid, say one-fourth in cash and one-fourth by charterer's acceptance, at six nonth.- from the final sailing of the vessel, and the remainder by like bill at threemonths from-date of delivery, at charterer'socein
Liverpool, of the certfileate f the right delivery of the cargo agreeablyto bill
of lading, or in cash, under discount at five per cent., at freighter's
option. The ship and her freight are bound to this ventur -- iTeld,
i. That the "charterer's acceptance at six months from the final sailing of
the vessel " having been dishonored and he become bankrupt, it was no
VOL., V.

85

