Dec. 1866.]

N ASHI

v. TOWNE,

Syllabus.

these public purposes to a State, notice is given by the commission-er of the land office to the registers and receivers to
stop all sales, either public or by private entry. Such notice was given the same day the grant was made, in 1856,
for the benefit of these railroads. That there was a dispute
existing as to the extent of the grant of 1846 in no way
affects the question. The serious conflict of opinion among
the public authorities on the subject made it the duty of the
land officers to withhold the sales and reserve them to the
United States till it was ultimately disposed of.
It should be stated, also, in connection with this proviso,
that the improvements of this river were in progress at the
time of the passage of the act of 1856, and had been for
years, but were suspended soon after, on account of the refusal of the Land Department to certify any more sections
under the act of 1846; and, as appears from the certificate
of the governor of Iowa, the sum of $332,634.04 had already
been expended by these defendants under their contract.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED

NOTE.

At the same time, with the preceding case, was adjudged
Des Moines Navigation and Railroad Company v. Burr, which
NELSON, S., delivering the judgment of the court, said, "involved the same questions" decided in it. He referred to the
opinion there given as decisive of them. The judgment was reversed with a venire de novo.

NASH V.

TowNE.

1. Courts, in the construction of contracts, look to the language employed,
the subject-matter, and the surrounding circumstances; and may avail
themselves of the same light which the parties enjoyed when the contract was executed. They are, accordingly, entitled to place themselves
in the same situation as the parties who made the contract, in order that

they may view the circumstances as those parties viewed them, and so
judge of the meaning of the words and of the correct application of
the language to the things described. Hence, where flour intended to
VOL. v,.-

44

690

NASH

v. TowNE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

2
8.

4.

5.

be sent to 1Boston was sold at Neenah, upon Lake Michigan, in midwinter, and the letter of sale stated that the flour was sold "free on
board steamer at Neenah," and was now "stored," the inference would
be that the flour was to remain in the storehouse where it was until the
navigation opened in the spring, and that it was to be withdrawn and
delivered on board a steamer at Neenah, free of charge to the purchasers,
before the spring season of navigation closed [which was May 81]. Accordingly a sale, such as above described, will support a declaration
(the flour not being delivered), alleging a sale of flour, stored at Neenah,
and an agreement to deliver the same, when requested, free of charge,
to the purchasers, on board of a steamer to be procured or furnished by
the vendors at the place where it was stored, after navigation should
open, and a reasonable time before the 81st day of May following, to be
conveyed to the purchasers, at Boston, in the ordinary manner of transportation.
Pr. of of a sale, and payment by a sight-draft, duly paid, will support a
declaration of a sale for so much " in hand paid."
Receiving the price of goods sold and to be delivered, thie refusal to deliver, and a conversion of the goods, constitute plenary evidence of an
implied promise to refund the price paid for them, and an action for
money had and received is an appropriate remedy for the vendee on
such refusal to deliver.
Where an agent has entered into a written contract in which he appears
as principal, parol evidence is inadmissible to show, with a view of
exonerating him, that he disclosed his agency and mentioned the name
of his principal at the time the contract was executed.
Where-a party pays money on a cousideration which fails, and in equity
should be refur.ded-as for goods deliverable in futuro, but not delivered-the measure of damages on the recovery back is the sum paid and
interest upon it, not as, ex. gr. in the case above, the value of the goods
sold at the time when by the contract they were to' have heen delivered.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for Wisconsin; the case being

thus:
Towne & Washburne, of Boston, Massachusetts, bought
of Nash & Chapin, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, in February,
1863, a thoisand barrels of flour, and paid for them by a
sight draft. The flour was not delivered, and the purchasers,
Towne & Washburne, aforesaid, brought assumpsit for the
non-delivery. The declaration contained a special count, and
also the common counts.
The former set forth:
" That the defendants, on the 5th of February, 1863, at Mil.

Dec. 1866.]

NASHt

v.

TOWNE.

Statement of the case.
waL kee, in Wisconsin, in consideration of $5500 dollars to them
in,hand paid, sold to the plaintiffs one thousand barrels of flour,
then at Neenah, in the said State, of the value of $5500, and
agreed that they, the defendants, on the request of the plaintiffs,
after navigation at Neenah aforesaid should open in the spring of
1863, and a reasonabletime before the 31st day of May, 1863, would
procure, furnish, or provide a steamer on which t6 ship said flour,
and, ship the same to the plaintiffs at Boston, in the State of
Massachusetts, and deliver the same on such steamer at NAeenah,
where said flour then was, free of chargeto said plaintiffs, and to
be transported in the ordinary manner and with necessary and
customary transshipments to the plaintiffs at Boston."
Plea, the general issue.
On the trial, the plaintiffs offered in evidence a letter from
the defendants to the plaintiffs, dated at Milwaukee, February 5, 1863, as follows:
"Your Mr. W. left here yesterday, and before going off we
sold him one thousand barrels round hoop flour, Empire Mills,
Iowa, free, on board steamer at Neenah, for $5.50, for which find
and
bill inclosed. We have the flour stored and insured, ....
will value on you at sight for the amount."
Inclosed in that letter was this bill of sale:
"Messrs. Towne & Washburne,
Bought of Nash & Chapin, general commission merchants,
1000 barrels of flour, Empire Mills, Iowa, round hoop, 5 , $5500.
Received payment, sight draft,
NASH & CIHAPIN."

This evidence was objected to by the defendants, because
it tended to prove a different contract from the one declared
on. The court, however, overruled the objection.
The plaintiffs then offered the sight draft with evidenqe
of its payment, and that it was drawn in payment of this
flour. This, too, was objected to as variant from the declaration ; but the objection was overruled.
The plaintiffs then read two warehouse receipts, one dated
January 31 st, 1863, as follows, and the other February 5th,
1863"

NASH

v. TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

" NEENAH, January 31s, 1863.

"Received in store of Nash & Chapin, five hundred barrels
Empire, Iowa, r. h. flour, to be delivered, on return of this ware-house receipt, free, on board steamer.
S. G. BURDICK."
"Indorsed:

NASH & CHAPIN."

They then brought witnesses who proved that the defendants had allowed this Burdick to take the flour from his
storehouse at Neenah, where it was stored, and, to sell it to
other persons (so to prove a conversion by the defendants to
their own use), and that they refused to deliver it; setting
up that the plaintiffs at the time of the sale of the flour
agreed to take the warehouse receipts of S. G. Burdick,
just above referred to, in lieu of the defendatits' responsibility for the flour, and had requested the defendants to
hold the receipts for them, which they the defendants had
done.
In the course of proving this, they asked a witness who
had inquired of the defendants, in behalf of the plaintiffs,
why the flour was not delivered, &c., this question:
"What was said by the defendants, as to wbore the flour, described in the letter and bill, was stored; whether it had been
delivered, and if not, as to why it had not been delivered?"
To the admission of that question the defendants objected
that inasmuch as the plaintiffs had failed to prove the special
count in their declaration, and had proved an existing contract to deliver flour to the plaintiffs, it was not competent
tbr the plaintifs to prove any other contract than the one set
out, nor to prove a breach of such other contract under the
other counts in the declaration. But the court overruled
the objection.
The defendants on their side offered to prove that in selling the flour they had acted as agents for Burdick, above
named, and so told the plaintiffs at the time of the sale; and
that they paid over the money, the proceeds of the sale, to
Burdick. This was objected to by the plaintiffs because it

Dec. 1866.]

N ASH

v.

TOWNE.

Statement of the case.

was conversation prior to or contemporaneous with a written contract (the bill of sale and letter), and would modify or
contradict it, and alter the liability of the defendants under
that contract. The objection was sustained and the ruling
excepted to.
They set up also that the warehouse receipts of Burdick
were accepted by the plaintiffs in lieu of their responsibility
for tire flour; a matter which went to the jury on the evidence.
The court charged:
1. "' That if the jury found that the plaintiffs had paid money
to the defendants for a consideration which had failed, and which
in equity the defendants ought to pay back, their verdict must
be fbr the plaintiffs. And if they found that the defendants executed the bill of sale and letter or contract read in evidence,
and the plaintiffs paid them for the flour specified, $5500, and
the defbndants afterwards failed and refused to deliver the flour
when demanded, then their verdict should be for the plaintiffs
for the amount paid by them and interest, unless the defendants
delivered to, and the plaintiffs accepted the warehouse receipts
in evidence in lieu of the flour."
At the request of the defendants below, it also charged:
2. "That the plaintiffs cannot recover in this cause against
the defendants damage for the conversion of that flour Without
proof that the defendants have, after such conversion, sold the
flour and received pay for it, and in that case, for only the amount
actually sold, and paid for, and only the price paid to them."
And added:
"The converse of such instruction is also true; that if the jury
find from the evidence that the defendants had sold said one
thousand barrels of flour, or any part of it, and had received the
money therefor, or the benefit of such sale and payment thereof,
then their verdict should be for the amount so received by said
defbndants, unless they had delivered to the plaintiffs, and the
plaintiffs had accepted, the warehouse receipts as a delivery of'
the flour."

NASH

v.

TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiffs, the
case was now here on exception to the ruling of the court
admitting the testimony, and 'to its instructions to the jury.
Mr. Lynde, for the plainti" in error:
I. The declaration sets oot the time of delivery to have
been after the opening of navigation in the spring of 1863
(April 20th, 1863), and before the 31st day of May, 1863.
The utmost that can be said of the letter is, that inasmuch as
the delivery must be on board steamer, the delivery should
be within a reasonable time after the opening of navigation,
which is a very different period. This was a variance.
Again, the declaration avers, in effect, that the plaintiff in
error agreed to provide a steamer and make the shipment,
and pay the charges of the warehouseman for storage and
delivery to the steamer, while the letter only agrees to pay
tile warehouseman's charges for storage and delivery to
steamer.
These papers were also inadmissible under the general
counts, as they tended to prove an existing agreement to deliver flour which must be counted upon specially.*
11 The declaration alleged a payment in cash. Proof of
payment by a bill was immaterial to the issue and variant
from the coun't.
III. The court erred in allowing the question: " What
was said by the defendant as to where the.flour was stored,
&c., and as to why it had not been delivered ?"
The plaintiff had averred a contract to deliver flour at a
future time. He had proved that a different one than the
one he alleged had been made. Proving a breach of that
contract would not prove the breach of his first count, nor
of any of his counts.
IV. But th 9 great error was in excluding evidence that
the defendants were acting as agents in making the sale,
and that the plaintiffs knew this, and that the money re* Spratt v. McKinney, 1 Bibb, 595; Brooks v. Scott, 2 Mumford, 344;
Burrall v. Jacot, 1 Barbour, 165; Cochran v. Tatum, 3 Monro, 405.

Dec. 1866.]

NASH v. TOWNE.

695

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ceived by the defendants had been paid over to their principals. The court erred also in charging "that if they found
from the 'evidence that the plaintiff had paid money to the
defendants for a consideration which had failed, and which
in equity the defendants ought to pay back, then their verdict must be for the plaintiff."
The plaintiffs had wholly failed to prove the special count.
It was not competent to prove an agreement to deliver flour
under the common counts. No other right of recovery is
asserted except moneys had and received to recover the
consideration paid. There is no contract to pay back that
money between the parties. It could only be recovered in a
case where the defendant had received money of the plaintiff, which ex aequo et bono he should return.*
The evidence was excluded upon the authority of a special
class of cases.t But in those cases the action was directly
upon the contract; in this case it was not, and the contract
here is only valuable in evidence as an admission of a fact,
which admission could be conttadicted or explained.
Now, when the action is brought, not upon the contract,
but upon the facts and the equities growing out of them,
why should not all the facts be proved? How could the jury
say that the defendants ought, in equity, to pay back this
money, without knowing whether the plaintiffs intended to
pay and did pay their money to Burdick or the defendants;
and whether Burdick or the defendants 'actually had the
benefit of the money?
Again, the court eryed in charging "that if they found
that the defendants executed and delivered the bill of sale
and letter or contract read in evidence, and the plaintiff paid
them for the flour specified, $5500, and the defendants afterward failed and refused to deliver the flour when called for,
their verdict should be for the plaintiffs for the amount paid
by them and interest." This instruction directs a recoery
,upon the contract. Th jury were not allowed to inquire
* Straton v. Rastall, 2 Term, 366.

t Such as Jones v. Littledale, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 486; and Higgins
Senior, 8 Meeson & Welsby, 844.

NASH v. TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

whether the contract was rescinded or not. There are two
objections to this charge:
1. There is no such contract set out in the declaration, as is
evidenced by the letter and bill of parcels; and, the record
would not be a bar to a new action on the letter and bill of
parcels.
2. The measure of damages is'incorrectly stated. The
amount of the recovery for a breach of the contract would
be the value of the flour at the time when it should have
been delivered.
fiir. Waldo, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Controversy in this case grew out of a contract for the
purchase, sale, and delivery of one thousand barrels of flour,
and the parties concur that the flour was never delivered by
the original defendants. Special count, as amended, alleged,
in substance and effect, that the defendants, on the fifth day
of February, 1863, at Milwaukee, in the State of Wisconsin,
in consideration of five thousand five hundred dollars, sold
to the plaintifFs one thousand barrels of flour, stored at
Neenah, in that State, and agreed to deliver the same, when
requested, free of charge, to the plaintiffs, on board of a
steamer to be by theta procured or furnished at the place
where it wai stored, after navigation should open, and a
reasonable time before the thirty-first day of May following,
to be conveyed to the plaintiffs, at Boston, in the ordinary
manner of transportation. They also alleged demand and
refusal to deliver the flour as agreed, and claimed damages
for the non-fulfilment of the contract. Declaration also contained the common counts as set forth in the record.
Plea was the general issue, and the verdict and judgment
were for the plaintiffs, and the defendants excepted and sued
out this writ of error. Exceptions were taken by the defendants to certain rulings of the court during the trial, and
to certain instructions of the court as _given to the jury after

Dec. 1866.]

D ASH v. TOWNE.
Opinion of the court.

the testimony was closed, which will be considered in the
order they are exhibited in the record.
I. Plaintiffs produced and offered to read in evidence, to
prove the issue on their part, a certain letter, dated Milwaukee, February 5, 1863, and written by the defendants to
the plaintiffs, and a bill of sale of the flour, executed at the
same time and place, and signed by the defendants, and
which was inclosed in the letter of the defendants so offered
in evidence. Material parts of the letter were as follows:
"Your Mr. W. left here yesterday, and before going off we
sold him 1000 barrels round hoop flour, Empire Mills, Iowa,
free, on board steamer at Neenah, for,$5.50, for which find
bill inclosed. We have the flour stored and insured,
and will value on you at sight for the amount." Inclosed
in that letter was the following bill of sale, which was also
signed by the defendants:
"Messrs. Towne & Washburne,
Bought of Nash & Chapin, general commission merchants,
1000 barrels of flour, Empire Mills, Iowa, round hoop, 5 , $5500.
Received payment, sight draft,
(Signed)
INASH & CHAPIN."
Such being all the evidence offered by the plaintiffs, under
the special count, the defendants objected that the evidence
was not admissible in the case, because it tended to prove a
different contract from that set out in the declaration, but
the court overruled the objection, and the letter andbill of
sale were read in evidence to the jury.
Defendants excepted to the ruling of the court, and that
exception raises the first question presented for decision in
the record. Obviously, the exception involves the construction of the special count, and of the contract exhibited in
the letter and bill of sale offered In evidence.
Argument of the defendants is tilat the contract offered
in evidence varied from the allegations of the special count
in two particulars:
1. That it differed from the declaration as to the time
when the floui was to be delivered.

698-

NASH v. TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

2. That it also differed from the declaration as to the ship.
ment of the flour, and because it contained no agreement to
furnish a steamer.
Undoubtedly, the rule is that the proofs must correspond
with the allegations in the declaration, but the requirement
in that behalf is fulfilled, if the substance of the declaration
is proved.
1. Allegations of fact in the pleadings, affirmed on one
side and denied on the other, must in general be tried by a
jury, and the purpose of the rule which requires that the
allegations and the proofs -must correspond, is that the opposite party may be fairly apprised of the specific nature of
the questions involved in the issue. Formerly, the rule in
that respect was applied with great strictness, but the modern
decisions are more liberal and reasonable. Decided cases
may be found, unquestionably, where it has been held that
very slight differences were sufficient to constitute a fital
variance. Just demands were often defeated by such rulings
until the Parliament interfered,, in the parent country, to
prevent such flagrant injustice.*
Federal courts have possessed the power, from their organization to the present time, to amend such imperfections
in the pleadings, except in cases of special demurrer set
down for hearing, and are directed to give judgment according to law and the right of the causeRecent statutes in the States also confer a liberal discretion upon courts in allowing amendments to pleadings, and
those statutes, together with the change they have superinduced in the course of judicial decision, may be said to have
established the general rule in the State tribunals that no
variance between the allegations of a pleading and the proofs
offered to sustain it, shall be deemed material, unless it be
of a character to mislead the opposite party in maintaining
his action or defence on the merits.1
* 1 Taylor on Evidence,

173, p. 187.

t 1 Stat. at Large 91.

1 3 Phillips on Evidence, 4th Am. ed. 148; Harmony v. Bingham, 1
Duer, 210; Catlin v. Gunter,'1 Kernan, 868.

Dec. 1866.]

NASH

v.

TOWNE.

'699

Opinion of the court.

Irrespective of those statutes, however, no variance ought
ever to be regarded as material where the allegation and
proof substantially correspond. Contract in this case was
executed in midwinter, when the navigation was closed, and
both parties knew that the flour could not be transported
until the navigation opened in the spring. "Free on board
the steamer at Neenah" meant that the defendants should
deliver the flour on board the steamer without charge to the
plaintiffs. Time of delivery is not specified, but it was to
be on board a steamer at Neenah, and it would be unreasonable to suppose that the parties contemplated that it should
be withdrawn -from the warehouse where it was stored in
safety and insured and deposited in a steamer, even if one
was there, before the navigation opened in the spring.
Courts, in the construction of contracts, look to the language employed, the subject-matter, and the surrounding
circumstances. They are never shut out from the same
light which the parties enjoyed when the contract was executed, and, in that view, they are entitled to place themselves in the same situation as the parties who made the
contract, so as to view the circumstances as they viewed.
them, and so to judge of the meaning of the words and of
the correct application of the language to the things described.*
Applying those rules to the case, it is quite clear that the
parties did not contemplate that the flour should be withdrawn from the warehouse, where it was safely stored and
insured, until the navigation opened in the spring, because
the withdrawal of the same before that time would have
been worse than useless, as it could not.be earlier transported
to-the place of destination, and if withdrawn and delivered
it would involve unnecessary expense and the necessity of
re-warehousing it and procuring a new insurance. Plain
inference, therefore, is that it was to remain in the storehouse where it was until the navigation opened in the spring,
* Barreda et al. v. Silsee, 21 Howard, 161; Shore v. Wilson, 9 Clark &
Finnelly, 669; Addison on Contracts, 846.

N ASH

v.

TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of th court.

but that it was to be withdrawn and delivered on board a
steamer at that place, free of charge to the plaintiffs, before
the spring season of navigation closed.
Such being the true construction of the contract as to the
time the delivery of the flour was to be made, it is evident
that the objection that there is avariance in that respect between the proofs offered in evidence and the special count
cannot be sustained. Averment of demand and refusal in
the count is not unusual in such cases, and, even if not
Strictly necessary, it certainly can afford no ground to support the present exception.
2. Second objection taken at the argument is that
the
contract, as proved, does not support the allegation that the
defendants agreed to procure or furnish a steamer at the
place of delivery, or to ship the flour on board a steamer
free of charge to the plaintiffs, as alleged in the special
count.
Express words of the contract are, "free on board steamer
at Neenah," and the terms of the contract also show that the
flour, at the date of the contract, was safely stored in a warehouse at the place where it was to be delivered. Those
words necessarily imply that the flour was in the possession
and under the control-of the defendants, and that the delivery was to be made in the future. Terms of the contract
also imply as clearly that the place of delivery was on board
a steaier at that port as they do that the delivery was to be
made by the defendants. Freight was to be paid by the
plaintiffs, but the delivery on board the steamer was to be
made by the defendants, and it follows, in the absence of any
stipulation to the contrary, that the defendants were to procure or select the steamer to transport the flour down the
bay, and to the place of transshipment, over the usual route.
Our conclusion is, that the allegations of the special count,
and the proofs given in evidence, were substantially the
same, or, in other words, that the differences between them,
if any, were not of a character which could have misled the
defendants at the trial, and therefore the objection must be
overruled.

Dec. 1866.]

e ASH v. TOWNE.
Opinion of the court.

IL Evidence was also introduced by the plaintiffs showing
that the defendants drew on them for the whole amount of
the purchase-money, in a sight draft, and that they paid the
draft, as given in evidence, when it was presented.
Exceptions were taken by the defendants to the rulings
of the court in admitting that evidence, but the rulings of
the court were so clearly correct that it seems unnecessary
to remark further upon the subject.
III. Plaintiffs also proved that the flour, at the date of the
contract, was stored in a railroad warehouse at Neenah, and
that the defendants had admitted that it had been sold and
delivered to a third person prior to the commencement of
the suit. They went further, and proved demand and refusal, arid showed that the defendants, at the date of the
contract, had but one thousand barrels of flour stored in that
warehouse, and that the whole of that parcel was sold and
delivered prior to the suit, with the defendants' knowledge
and consent.
Witnesses were examined on the subject, and in the course
of their examination two other exceptions were taken by the
defendants to the rulings of the court in admitting testimony.
Substance of the testimony objected to and introduced was
that the flour was withdrawn from the warehouse where it
was stored, at the date of the contract, under the orders of
the defendants, and deposited in another place, and finally
delivered to other parties,, in part fulfilment of a much
larger contract. Testimony previously introduced showed
that the plaintiffs accep'ted the sight draft, and paid the same
for the purchase-money, and that the defendants refused to
deliver the flour; and the evidence objected to was doubtless offered to show that they had converted the flour to
their own use, and, in our judgment, it was properly admitted for that purpose. Where the seller of goods received
the purchase-money at the agreed price, and subsequently
refused to deliver the goods, and it appeared at the trial that
lie had converted the same to his own use, it was held at a
very early period that an action for money had and received
would lie to recover back the money, and it has never been

NASH V.

TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

heard in a court of justice since that decision that there was
any doubt of its correctness.*
Assumpsit for money had and received is an equitable
action to recover back money which the defendant in justice
ought not to retain, and it may be said that it lies in most,
if not all, cases where the defendant has moneys of the plaintiff which, ex equo et bono, he ought to refund. Counts for
money had and received may be joined with special counts;
and where, as in this case, the special counts are for damages for the non-delivery of goods, it is perfectly c(?mpetent
for the plaintiff, if the price was paid in money or money's
worth, to prove the allegations of the special counts and introduce evidence to support the common counts; and if it
appears that the defendant refused to deliver the goods, and
that he has converted the same to his own use, the plaintit',
at his election, may have damages for the non-delivery of
the goods, or he may have judgment for the price paid and
lawful interest. Evidence in this case was clear, not only
that the plaintiffs paid the price in money, but that the defendants refused to deliver the flour, and converted the same
to their own use, by selling and delivering it to other persons.t"

Such a reception of the price, refusal to deliver, and conversion of the goods constitute plenary evidence of an implied promise to refund the price paid, and an action for
money had and received is an appropriate remedy for the
plaintiffs.
Principal defence was that the flour belonged to one
Samuel G. Burdick, and that the defendants, in negotiating
the sale, acted merely as the agents of the owner of the
flour, and that they, during the negotiation for the sale, informed the plaintiffs of their agency, and gave to them the
name of their principal as the owner of the flour. They also
claimed that the plaintiffs agreed at the sale of the flour to
take the warehouse receipts of their principal for the flour,
Anonymous, 1 Strange, 407; 2 Greenleaf on Evidence, 124.

t

Allen v. Ford, 19 Pickering, 217; Jones v. Hoar, 6 Id. 285.

Dec. 1866.]

:NASH v. TOWNE.
Opinion of the court.

and that the defendants merely held those receipts at the request of the plaintiffs, and for their benefit, and were therefore under no obligations to deliver the flour.
Such was the theory of the defendants, but there wL no
proof of any, such agreement, except that one of the plainti- "i
testified that the defendants, when the demand was made
for the delivery of the flour, claimed that such was the understanding of the parties at the date of the contract. Defendants introduced no testimony, but offered to prove that
in negotiating the sale they acted as agents, and that they
so informed the plaintiffs, and gave them the name of their
principal. Pjaintiffs objected to the testimony, and it was
excluded by the court, and the defendants excepted. They
still, insist that the ruling of the court in that behalf was erroneous, but they admit the general rule that parol evidence
is not admissible to supply, contradict, enlarge, or vary the
words of a written contract; and it is equally well settled that
when a contract is reduced to writing all matters of negotiation and discussion on the subject antecedent to and dehors
the writing are'excluded as being merged in the instrutment.*
Parol evidence can never be admitted for the purpose of
exonerating an agent who has entered into a written. contract in which he appears as principal,, even though he
should propose to show, if allowed, that he disdlosed his
agency and mentioned the name of his principal at the time
the contract was executed.t
Where a simple contract, other than a bill or note, is
made by an agent, the principal whom he represents may in
general maintain an action upon it in his own name, and
parol evidence is admissible, although the contract is in
writing, to show that the person named in the contract was
an agent, and that lie was acting for his principal. Such
evidence, saysBaron Parke, does not deny that the contract
binds those whom on its face it purports to bind, but shows
- 2 Kent's Com., llth ed. 746; 1 Greenleaf on Evidonce, 12th ed.,
p. 312.
t Higgins v. Senior, 8 Meeson & Welsby, 844.

276,

NASH

v. TOWNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that it also binds another, and that principle has been fully
adopted by this court.*
Cases may be found, also, where it is held that the plain.
tiff may prove by parol that the other contracting iparty
named in the contract was but the agent of an undisclosed
principal, and in that state of the case he may have his remedy against either, at his election.t
Evidence to that effect will be admitted to charge the
principal or to enable him to sue in his own name, but the
agent who binds himself is never allowed to contradict the
writing by proving that he contracted only as agent, and not
as principal.1
Exceptions were also taken to the charge of the court, but
they involve, for the most part, the same questions as are
presented in the objections taken to the admissibility of the
evidence, and therefore do not require to be further answered. Slight as the evidence was to show that the plaintifis accepted the warebouse receipts in lieu of the flour, still
the court left that question to the jury, and their finding
upon the subject is conclusive. Complaint is also made that
the rule of damages given to the jury was not correct, but
the complaint is so clearly without merit that we forbear
any further comments upon the subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED, WITH

COSTS.

New Jersey Steam Nay. Co. v. Merchants' Bank, 6 Howard, 381 ; Ford

v. Williams, 21 Id. 289; OeIricks et al. v. Ford, 23 Id. 63.
t

Thomson v. Davenport, 9 Barnewall & Cresswell, 78.

$ Jones v. Littledale, 6 Adolphus & Ellis, 486; 1 Parsons on Contracts,
6th ed. 64; Titus v. Kyle, 10 Ohio N. S. 444; 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th
Am. ed. 421.

