Dec. 1866.1

IICHOLS v. LEVY.
Statement of the case.

free from that embarrassment. Could that court entertain
jurisdiction of the case, and violate this requirement?
It is said by claimant that the case did not come into that
court under that resolution, but was brought there by his
own petition. But, however it may have come there, the
rule prescribed by Congress adheres to it, if Congress had
the right to prescribe it. Entertaining no doubt of the
power of the legislative body to define the terms on which
judgments may b,3 rendered against the government as to
classes of cases, or as to individual cases, we think the Court
of Claims was bound to accept the resolution of February,
1861, as the law of the case in that court. The effect of this
resolution on the award, if it should ever come in question
in a court not limited by the restrictions which govern that
court, we need not decide.
As we can only consider here, what judgment that court
should have rendered, we conclude that its judgment was
right, and it is therefore
Az~FFIR MED.

NICiHOLS V. LEVY.
1. Where a State court,-interpreting a statute of its own State, which gave
such court jurisdiction to subject legal and equitable interests in real eslate to the claim of creditors,-decided that the statute embraced trusts
like one in question (which judgment creditors were seeking to set
aside), and that it exempted the property embraced by the trust from
liability to such creditors-this court followed that construction of the
statute and sustained the trust, though they remarked that if the question had been to be treated by them on general principles of jurisprudence, and independently of the State decision on the statute, the judgment would necessarily have been the other way.
2. An estate in vested remainder is liable to debts the same as one in possession.
Hence, where creditors seek to subject, bybill in equity, to their claims an
estate in such vested remainder, and it is decided that they cannot do it,
the matter will be considered as res adjudieate,if they afterwards try to
levy, by execution, on the same property, when, by the death of the
tenant for life, it has become an estate in possession.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Tennessee.
In that court, James Beal Nichol and John Nichol, Jr
VOL. V.

28

NICHOLS v. LEVY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

filed a bill for an injunction to restrain Levy and thirty-six
others, different mercantile houses, from selling, under executions at law, which these houses had obtained against
them, certain lands in which they, the said J. B. and J.
Nichol, were interested; the ground of the bill being, that
the said lands were not liable to be sold to satisfy the judgments in question. The court refused to grant the injunction, and this appeal was taken.
The questions made in the ease were:
1st. Whether the matter of the liability of said lands
was not res adjudicala in favor of the Nichols in a certain
other proceeding hereinafter mentioned, in which they were
defendants? and
2.d. Whether, as an original question, they had any such
estate in the lands as was liable to execution at law?
The case was thus:
The appellants were grandsons of one Beal Basley, and
having been engaged in mercantile business, and failing in
it, had become heavily, if not hopelessly, indebted. Their
grandfather, desiring to provide for his grandsons, these
young men, but unwilling that his bounty should go simply
to pay their debts, executed, in 1849, a deed, conveying certain lands (including one tract of 308A acres) to one John
Nichol, Sr., upon trusts that the trustees should permit.the
said Beal Basley to occupy and enjoy the lands, &c., during
his life"And after his death that the said John Nichol, Sr., will permit the said J. B. Nichol and John Nichol, Jr., jointly or in severalty, according to any division into two equal parts that may
hereafter be made between them, to have, possess, use, occupy,
and enjoy the said property, and receive the rents, issues, and
profits thereof, so that neither the said property nor the rents, issues, and profits thereof shall ever be liable for any of the present
now existing debts, whether due or not due, or now existing contracts of the said J. B. Niehol or John Nichol, Jr., or either of
them, or to any incumbrance, liability, or lien that they or either of
them or their property are now subject to for said debts or contracts,
or by any acts, defaults, or transactions of their own, whereby they

Dec. 1866.]

NicHOLS

v. LEVY.

435

Statement of the case.

may attempt to make the same liable for said debts or contracts, and
after the present debts and liabilities of the said J. B. Nichol
and John Nichol, Jr., shall have been extinguished and they entirely discharged therefrom, then the said John Niehol, Sr., shall
hold said property, and every part thereof, in trust, to convey the
same to the said J. B. :Nichol and John Nichol, Jr., in fee and
absolutely, either as tenants in common or in severalty, and in
such manner as may be agreed on by and between the said J.
B. Nichol and John Nichol, Jr."
John Nichol, Sr., the trustee, died, and the legal estate in
the lands descended to his nine children, two of whom were
James Beal Nichol and John Nichol, Jr.
Subsequently, and during the lifetime of the grandfather,
in August, 1854, certain creditors (in number thirty) of the
two grandsons having obtained judgments upon debts existing after the conveyance was made, filed bills in chancery
against them and the heirs of the deceased trustee, in Tennessee, praying a sale of their interest in the lands so conveyed. These suits were consolidated and tried together.
The bills having set forth the deed, judgments, and the case
of the creditors on them, concluded:
"From the foregoing statement of facts your honor will readily
perceive that said James B. and John Nichol, Jr., are invested
with at least a remainder interest in fee insaid tract of 3081
acres allotted to them as aforesaid; that the legal title to said
tract being in John Nichol, Sr., or his heirs, the same is not
subject to execution at law."
The prayer was, that the premises being considered, and
as the complainants had no remedy at law, the "interest"
of the two grandsons Nichol in the property should be sold,
and the proceeds applied to the payment of the judgments.
The chancellor decreed that the property could rot be
thus applied, either under the general jurisdiction of the
court, or under an act of the legislature of Tennessee by
which it was sought to render it liable, notwithstanding the
ter-us of the deed. And the Supreme Court of Tennessee
affirmed this decree.

436

NIcHOLS

v.

LEVY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The statute of Tennessee referred to, authorized certain
p)roceedings to subject equitable interests to the payment of
judgments obtained against the defendant, at law. It declared:
"Section 1. That a bill might be filed ' to compel the discovery
of any bank stock, or other kind of stock, or any property, or
thing in action, held in trust for him, and to prevent the transfer of any such stock, property, money, thing in action, or the
payment or delivery thereof to the defendant, except where
such trust has been created by, or the fund has proceeded from,
some person other than the defendant himself, and is declared
by will duly recorded, or by deed duly proved and registered.'
"Section 2. That the court might deeree payment of the judgment out of ' any property, stock, money, or things in action,
belonging to the defendant or held in trust for him, with the
exception above stated, which shall be discovered by the proceedings in chancery.'
"Section 4. That when service could not be made at law, and
a judgment obtained, and also where the demand was of a purely
equitable nature, a court of equity should have jurisdiction to
subject legal and equitable interests in every species of stock
and other property, with the exception hereinbefore stated, and
also in real estate."
In March, 1861, the two grandsons made partition of the
land by deed, and in April, 1860, sold portions of it.
In May, 1860, the grandfather, Beal Basley, died, and immediately thereafter the same thirty judgment creditors
above-mentioned, and seven others, who had not joined in the
former proceedings, caused executions to be levied upon the
entire tract of land in question, and it was accordingly advertised for sale. Whereupon in August, 1860, James Beal
Nichol, and John Nicbol, Jr., the grandsons provided for as
above mentioned, filed a bill in the Circuit Court of the
United States, for an injunction to prevent the sale, setting
forth the proceedings hereinbefore mentioned by which
they contended the creditors were estopped, and also relying upon the exemption of the property, according to the
terms and -onditions of the trust under which they held. ,

Dec. 1866.]

NXiOnOLS

v. LEvy.

Argument for the appellants.

Upon final hearing, in 1864, the court being of opinion
that the defendants were not estopped by the decree of thc
Supreme Court, and "that the terms of exclusion of the doniees' creditors not amounting to a limitation of the estate,
can no more repel the creditors than a restraint upon alienation can in the hands of the donee himself," dissolved the
injunction and dismissed the bill. From this decree the
present appeal was taken to this court.
Messrs. Carlisle and McPherson, for J. B. and J. Nichol,
appellants:
I. The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee estops the parties to the proceedings in which it was rendered, as to the matter in
question.
The subject-matter was the same in both cases. The only
difference was that caused by the death of the tenant for life,
Beal Basley. When the decree was rendered, these appellants had a vested remainder in the lands, after the death of
Beal Basley. No change took place after this decree and
before the executions were issued, except that by his death
the remainder vested in possession. But his death did not
change the case. A remainder is as much liable for the
satisfaction of judgments as an estate in possession ; for a
legal estate in remainder may be sold under execution, and
an equitable remainder may be subjected, by proceedings in
equity, to be sold for debt.
The suit in the Chancery Court was between the same
parties. It is true that not all the defendants in this cause
were parties to the cause in the Chancery Court (thirty of
the thirty-seven being parties), but this latter suit was upon
a creditor's bill, to which all had a right to be made parties
upon motion, and are, consequently, bound by the decision.
If this be not so, still those who were parties are bound.
11. If the appellees are not estopped, and the question is to be
treated as an original one in this suit, still the estate of the appellants in the lands was not sulject to be taken in execution.
On this question the decision of the Supreme Court of
Tennessee, if not an estoppel, is a controlling authority, be-

N'icHOLS v. Lowy.

[Sup, Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

ing a decision upon the construction of a statute of that State,
and laying down a rule of real property therein.
The intent and legal effect of the deed was to vest the legal
estate in the trustee until the debts of the cestui que trust
should be paid, and upon the happening of that event to
convey the lands to the cestui que trust, and in the meantime
the lands should be enjoyed by those persons described in
the deed. During the continuance of the trust it was made
the duty of the trustee to protect the possession of the lands
against a specified class of persons, and to defeat any attempt
on the pai't of the cestui quetrust to apply the property or its
proceeds to a certain specified and prohibited object. Itwas
clearly the requirement of the donor that the trustee should
in certain contingencies interfere actively in the execution
of his intentions-to eject, for instance, former creditors, to
whom the cestui que trust should have conveyed the land in
satisfaction of a then existing debt, or even the purchasers
who miglht buy at sheriff's sale, under the executions which
it is now sought to enjoin. Moreover, the trustee was to
ascertain when a certain event had occurred-the final extinguishment of certain debts of the cestui que trust-and upon
the happening of that event he was to make a conveyance
in one or the other of the two modes prescribed by the deed
of gift. These provisions and conditions, if valid, constitute
a special trus .*
These provisions and conditions were valid, and especially that providing for a future conveyance of the land.t
These positions do not conflict with the authorities which
hold that all a debtor's property must be liable to his debts.
But the remedy is in equity, where the interest of the debtor
under the trust can be reached-not by executio'n at law,
whereby the trust is destroyed.1 ,
The trust in this case being executory, and the trusts imv. Buxton, 7 Vesey, 201.
t As to liabilityfor debts, see Fisher v. Taylor, 2 Rawle, 33 ; Vaux v. Park,
7 Watts & Sergeant, 19; Braman v. Stiles, 2 Pickering, 460. As tofuture
conveyance, see Bank v. Forney, 2 Iredell's Equity, 181.
: Mebane v. Mebane, 4 Iredell's Equity, 131; Dick v. Pitchford, 1 Deve.
reux & Battle's Eq. 480.
*Mott

Dec. 1866.]

hiCHOLS v. LEVY.

439

Argument for the appellees.

perfectly declared, equity will carry the intentions of the
parties into effect.

Messrs. Bradley and Wilson, contra:
I. The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee is not an estoppel.
The essential qualities of an estoppel are that the judgment shall be between the same parties, upon the same subject-matter, and this must appear by the record, or be proved,
and is not to be inferred by argument.*
The parties are not the same.
We have here thirty-seven creditors as parties. In the
suit in the State court of Tennessee there were but thirty.
If the decree is a bar, it is a bar only as to the parties tothe
suit in the State court. The matter must be passed on here
for the remaining seven.
It was not on the same subject-rhatter.
In those cases an effort was made by certain judgment
creditors to create a lien in equity upon and subjpct to sale
certain property in which it was alleged the defendants had
an equitable interest. The court decided in substance that
they had no estate at that time cognizable in a court of
equity.
It was a bare possibility. The donees took no interest in
presenti. It was to depend on their surviving the donor. He
reserved a life estate to himself, and after his death a use to
the donees for their lives, to be enlarged upon a certain contingency into a fee. It was a use for life limited upon a use
for life and dependent on their surviving the donor. It was
an inter6st too remote, depending on a possibility only, and
did not vest any estate in the donee. It was not an estate
or interest in the donees which could pass by assignment,
whether voluntary or involuntary. It could not pass even
* Duchess of Kingston's case, 20 State Trials, 355; Hitchin v. Campbell,
2 W. Blackstone, 830, Martin v. Kennedy, 2 Bosanquet & Puller, 70;
Robinson's case, 5 Rep :ts, 32; Outram v, Morewood, 3 East, 846.

NICHOLS V. LEVY.

[Sup..Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

by will, because no estate could arise on which the devise
could operate.*
The Supreme Court therefore was right in the decision
which it made in the then condition of the title.
But on the death of the donor, the donees surviving, the
interest of the donees becomes a vested interest, subject to
the disposition of a court of equity and subject to execution
at law.
II. As an original question.
This being a voluntary conveyance by the donor in trust
for the donees to "have, possess, use, occupy, and enjoy said
property, and receive the rents, issues and profits thereof,"
upon the termination of the life estate of the donor they became seized in fee of the lands, and by virtue of the statute of
29 Charles II, the same became lihible to levy and sale upon
execution.
The condition annexed to the estate made it inalienable
except on a contingency, which was too remote and uncertain and against public policy. It was a contingency which
not only might never happen, but which was so unceritain
that it could not control the enjoyment and transferable
character of the estate.
There is no restraint of alienation in the deed of trust, nor
any limitation over to defeat the estate inthe event of a conveyance by the cestui que trust before the payment of the
debts provided against by the said deed. If then the cestui
que trust had united with the trustee after the death of the
grandfather in a conveyance of the property in fee, before
execution levied, the purchaser would have taken unincumbered title. It follows that the cestui que trust took the full
interest and estate as the land, subject only to the outstanding, legal title, and such estate and interest was necessarily
subject to sale under execution.
Where a grant or devise is made of the rents, issues and
profits of an estate, the legal estate being vested in a trustee,
with a condition annexed, that they shall not be subject to
Preston on Estates, 75.

Dec. 1866.]

NIcHOLS v. LEVY.

44i

Opinion of the court.

present or future debts, whether the estate granted or devised be an estate for life or in fee, the condition is void as
against public policy.*
This is not a special trust. The trustee had nothing to do
but to hold the legal title, permit the parties to occupy, and
when the trust was ended, convey the legal title to them in
such manner as they might determine. A more passive
trustee can hardly be conceived of.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
If the determination of this case depended upon the general principles of jurisprudence, the result must necessarily
be in favor of the appellees. It is a settled rule of law that
the beneficial interest of the cestui que trust, whatever it may
be, is liable for the payment of his debts. It cannot be so
fenced about by inhibitions and restri6tions as to secure to it
the inconsistent characteristics of right and enjoyment to the
beneficiary and immunity from his creditors. A condition
precedent that the provision shall not vest until his debts
are paid, and a condition subsequent that it shall be divested
and forfeited by his insolvency, with a limitation over to
another person, are valid, and the law will give them full
effect. Beyond this, protection from the claims of creditors
is not allowed to go.*
According to these principles the restrictions in the deed
of Beal Basley as to the creditors of the appellants are
wholly void.
But the case does not turn upon these considerations.
Two other questions are presented, and our judgment
must be determined by their solution.
One of these questions is, whether the appellees, who were
complainants in the bills filed to reach the interests of the
* Graves v. Dolphin, 1 Simon, 66; Mebane v. Mebane, 4 Iredell's Eq.,
131; Bank v. Forney, 2 Id.

181, 184;

Snowden v. Dales, 6 Simon, 524;

Foley v. Burnell, 1 Brown's Ch. 247; Brandon v. Robinson, 18 Vesey, Jr.,
429; Piercy v. Roberts, 1 Milne & Keene, 4; Dick v. Pitchford, 1 Devereux & Battell's Eq. 484; 2 Story's Eq., 974.

442

NicHOLS

v. LEVY

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

appellants in the property in question, are not concluded by
the decree rendered in those cases by the Supreme Court of
Tennessee. The cases were consolidated in that court, and
decided together. The bills were filed in the Chancery
Court of Davidson County, and addressed to the presiding
chancellor. They contained this averment:
"From the foregoing statement of facts your honor will
readily perceive that said James B. and John Nichol, Jr.,
are invested with at least a remainder interest in fee in said
tract of 308A acres allotted to them as aforesaid; that the
legal title to said tract being in John Nichol, Sr., or his
heirs., the same is not subject to execution at law"'
Hence the aid of a court of equity was invoked. The
prayer of the bills was that the "interest" of the appellants
in the property should be sold, and the proceeds applied to
the payment of the judgments.
The chancellor decreed against the complainants, upon the
grounds, that the restriction in.the trust as to the liability
of the property for the debts of James B. and John Nichol
was valid; that the creditors could not compel the conveyance of the legal title When the beneficiaries themselves
were not in a condition to demand it; and that "the provisions of the deed were within the purview of the act of
1832;" and the property thus protected from the claims of
the creditors.
The complainants appealed to the Supreme Court. That
court held "that said property is not liable for such debts
and judgments of the comiplainants, and that the same may
not be subjected to the payment and satisfaction of said
debts and judgments," and the decree of the chancellor was
affirmed. As regards the complainants in that case, who
are defendants in this, the parties were the same, and the
question to be determined was the same. But it is said.that
Beal Basley was living when that litigation was begun, and
dead when this bill was filed. That Basley was living could
have made no difference in the result of the former suits.
aiid .c nnot affect the bar arising from them in this suit.
As averred in the bill, the beneficiaries had a vested re-

Dec. 1866.]

Ni CHOLS v. LEVY.
Opinion of the court.

mainder in fee. Their right to the property was as perfect
'hen as it is now. Their estate was an equitable one, but
alienable and descendible, and subject to be conveyed by
the same instruments as a legal estate. It was not then
vested in possession. The time of possession was dependent
upon the termination of the life estate of Beal Basley. But
this only lessened its value for the time being. Its liability
to their creditors was not in the least affected. It is impossible that the Supreme Court of Tennessee should have held
otherwise, and the decree have proceeded upon a different
view of the subject. The language of the decree repels the
suggestion. WO cannot give any weight to an objection
which assumes as its basis such a reflection upon that enlightened tribunal. The decree as to the property and
questions here in controversy is resjudicata,and it has every
element of conclusiveness as to those who were parties to it.
Several defendants in this suit were not parties to that
litigation, aid hence are not bound by the decree.
This brings us to examine the second question presented
for our consideration. It relates to the effect of the act of
1832, referred to by the chancellor in his decree.
The Supreme Court of Tennessee held that it had no
power to subject stocks, ehoses in actions, or equitable interests, to the payment ofj udgments at law. The legislature
of the State thereupon passed the act in question.*
The first section declares that a bill may be filed "to compel the discovery of any bank stock, or other kind of stock,
or any property, or thing in action, held in trust fur him"
(the defendant), " and to prevent the transfer of any.such
stock, property, money, thing in action, or the payment or
delivery thereof to the defendant, except where such trust
has been created by, or the fund has proceeded from, some
person other than the defendant himself, and is decla'red by
will duly recorded, or by deed duly proved and registered."
The second section authorizes the court to decree payment of the judgment out of "any property, stock, monley,
Session laws of 1882, p. 22; E Ning v. Cantrell, Meigg, 364.

UNITED STATES V. ARMiJo.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

or things in action, belonging to the defendant or held in
trust for him, with the exception above stated, which shall
be discovered by the proceedings in chancery."
The fourth section provides that when service cannot be
made at law, and a judgment cannot be obtained, and also
where the demand is of a purely equitable nature, "a court
of equity shall have jurisdiction to subject legal and equitable interests in every species of stock and other property,
with the exception hereinbefore stated, and also in real
estate."
The Supreme Court of the State decided, in the suits referred to, that this statute embraces trusts of real estate, and
that it exempted the property in question from liability to
the judgment creditors. There can be no doubt of the power
of the legislature to pass the statute. Its wisdom and policy
are considerations with which we have nothing to do. Being a local statute and involving a rule of property, we adopt
the construction which has been given to it by the highest
judicial tribunal of the State.
This is decisive of the case as to those of the appellees
who were not parties to the former suits.
The decree of the Circuit Court is REVERSED, and the
cause will be remanded to that court with directions to enter
a decree
IN

CONFORMITY

TO THIS OPINION.

UNITED STATES V. ARMIJO ET AL.
1. The motives which may actuate parties intervening in a California land
case to appeal, or the fact that an inconsiderable interest in the grant is
represented by them, can have no influence -upon the decision of the
matter presented. The holder of the slightest interest, if properly be.
fore the court, has the right to insist upon a fair location of the quantity
granted, however much such location may clash with the wishes of his
co-owners.

2 Where two grants in California, made by the Mexican government, were
both for specific quantities without designation of location or bounds,

