566

[Sup. Ct.

GOODRICH V. THE CITY.
Statement of the case.

his name by a secretary, under his direction,* and countersigned by the recorder of the General Land Office.t
Judgment of the court below
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice MILLER did not sit in the case.

GOODRICH V. THE CITY.
1. Where a matter is directly in issue and adjudged in a court of common
law, that judgment may be got up as.an estoppel in a court of admiralty.
2. Where an action is brought in a State court against a city for its neglect

to do a public duty imposed on it by law (as ev. gr. to keep its harbor
free from obstructions hidden under water), the declaration going upon
its neglect to do the thing at all, a judgment in such State court that it
was not bound to do the thing at all, may be used as an estoppel in
another suit (a libel in admiralty), where the allegation of the libel is
that, being bound to keep the river clear, the city began to clear itentered upon its duty but never finished the work, by which neglect to
finish it the injury occurred; the cause of action being otherwise the

same.

GOODRICH filed a libel in the District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in a cause of damage, civil and maritime, against the City of Chicago, in personam.
The libel alleged that he was the owner of the steamer
Huron; and that, on the 27th of March, 1857, while leaving
the port of Chicago, the vessel ran against a sunken wreck
in the Chicago River and, was sunk; that, prior to this
damage done, the city had been vested with exclusive jurisdiction over the river as a common public navigable river
and highway by the State of Illinois, and with all the necessary means to provide funds for defraying the expenses incident thereto; that the city accepted the act of the legislature, and had ever since assumed the exclusive jurisdiction
and control over the river harbor; that on the 20th day of May,
1856, the city bad passed an ordinance for the removal, without delay, of any obstruction to free navigation, by which it
was ordained that whenever there should be in the harbor
*4 Star. at Large, 663.

t 5 Id. 417.

Dec. 1866.]

GOODRICH V. THL1, CITY.
Statement of the case.

any vessel insecurely fastened, adrift, sunken, &c'., and which
might require to be fastened, raised, &c., IT SHOULD BE THE
DUTY of the harbor master to secure, raise, or remove such
vessel WITHOUT DELAY; that in April, 1856, the city appointea
one Ingalls harbormaster under the said ordinance, and at the time
of said damage he was such harbor master, vested with full control and management of the harbor, and that it was his duty, as
agent of the said city, to remove all such obstruetions to the free
and safe navigation of said harbor; that in November, 1856, a
schooner had been sunk near the mouth of the river, and
became an obstruction to the safe navigation of it; hat the
city assumed the exclusive riqht to remove the same, and did, by
their said harbor master, undertake and commence the removal of
the said sunken wreck, by hitching thereto a steam-tuq, and thereby
attemnpting to raise and remove the same as they were bound to do,
but did not complete the work, nor raise and remove the said wreck,
as they had exclusively undertaken to do, but worked on the said
sunken vessel, endeavoring to rai3e the same, and pdlcd several
pieces of timber from the said vessel in the attempt to raise and
remote her, but without raising or removing the same, did (as the
libellants belieqed), loosen the said vessel in its bed; and ncgligently antd carelessly left the vessel until the 29th of March, 1857,
by means whereof during that time, by the action of the winds and
currents, the wreck became drifted farther into the channel of the
river, and during all the time aforesaidwas kept in the channel by
the respondent under water, so that the same could not be seen;
and without fixing or placing any buoy or signal to mark
the place of the said sunken wreck; and that in consequence
of the negligence of the city the said steamer ITuron ran on
to said sunken wreck and was sunk, in ignorance of its
locality and without fault on her part, with damage to the
libellants of $19,487.
The respondent having set up as defences, want of jurisdiction in the District Court; that the city was not liable on the
facts of the ease, and was not under any legal obligation to remove the sunken vessel, and that the accident had occurred
through carelessness and unskilful conduct of the Huron,
added to them by way of estoppel, the fhct of a former judg.,

GOODRICH v.

Tim

CITY.

S
[Sup.
Ct.

Statement of the case.

'menton demurrer to the declaration, in an action on the case beiween the same parties in the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The declaration in the suit thus set up.'as an estoppel alleged:
1. That under a statute of the State of Illinois of February 14, 1851,* it became the duty of th'e city to remove
and prevent all obstructions in the Chicago River and harbor, and that the city was authorized to levy and collect taxes
for that purpose.
2. That the city assumed to discharge the duties imposed,
and for that purpose levied and collected taxes, and controlled and regulated the said river and harbor, and that by
means thereof and by the said State statute, it became and
was its duty tq remove and prevent all obstructions therein.
3. That the city undertook and entered upon the discharge
of its duties and obligations by the passage of necessary
ordinances, rules, and regulations, authorized by the act of
1851, whereby it became and was its duty to remove all obstructions, &e.
4. That the Chicago River and harbor was a publi6 highway and navigable stream, and that the city, not regarding
its duty ini-the premises, on, the 29th of March, 1857, and for
five months prior thereto, had negligently and ca'elessly
suffered and permitted the obstruction spoken of to remain
in the river, and that the city, although knowing that the
wreck was under water and out of sight, neglected to place
any buoy or signal thereon to indicate its position.
5. That by reason of the premises, on or about the 29th
day of March, 1857, the Huron in passing through the
river was accidentally and without any want of care and
skill on the part of the owners, or those in charge of her,
run on or against the said sunken wreck.
And itappeared that, on a demurrer to this deqlaration,
judgment had been rendered finally in the Supreme Court
of the State for the city.t
* The same statute referred to in the libel in admirolty.

t Goodrich v. The City, 20 Illinois, 445.

Dec. 1866. ]

GOODRICH V.

THE CITY.

Argument against the estoppel.

The District Court held judgment in the Supreme Court
of the State no estoppel; and the case being deemed otherwise clear, gave judgment for the libellant.
. On appeal to the Circuit Court, that court held, that
the decision in the State court was "an authoritative adjudication, denying that there is an obligation imposed by
law on the City of Chicago to remove obstructions, from
its river and harbor," and that it was thus decisive, against
the libellants, of the present action. The decree of the District Court was accordingly reversed ;-the Circuit Court
(DAvIs, J.) expressing, at the same time, the opinion "that
the facts of the case would sustain the claim made by the
libellants, if the court was relieved from the embarrassment"
of the decision referred to; and stating further " that if this
question was an open one in Illinois, the court should have
no hesitation in holding that a legal 'obligation is imposed
on the city to remove obstructions from the river; and that
it is bound to make full ;edress to every person injured by
reason of its failure to performa its duty; that the true interest of commerce, and the best interests of the city, would be
promoted by such a construction, and that it is sanctioned
by principle and authority."
The case was now here on appeal from this decree by the
Circuit Court reversing the former one of the District Court.

Messrs. Goodwin, Lamed, and Goodwin, for the appellants,
owners of the steamer:
There is no ground of liability set forth in any-count in
the declaration in the State court case, but that of "the
omission of the city to take action for the removal of the
wrek."
The case made by the declaration proceeds upon an absolute obligation on the part ofthe city to remove all obstructions, growing out of the power conferred, and the ordinances establishing the proper officers and providing the
needful means for the exercise of that power; and the
ground of action is rested wholly upon the omission of the
city to exercise the power in the given case. There is no

GooiaRlcH v. THE CITY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Argument against the estoppel.

averment in the declaration, as there is pre-eminently in
the libel, that the city ever undertook or assumed to remove
the wreck, or entered upon the work of such removal; but,
on the contrary, the declaration excludes the idea of such
assumption of responsibility or undertaking on the part of
the city by its positive allegation that the city neglected and
refused to take any such action, but permitted the wreck to
remain, and Would not undertake its removal.
And the Supreme Court being called upon to decide, on
general demurrer, as to whether such a declaration had set
forth a legal ground of action against the city, decided that
it did not, because the city were not bound to undertake the
removal of any obstruction in the harbor, except they
elected so to do; that it was a matter of legal option with
them whether they would or would not, in any given case,
exercise the power so conferred; that the passage of ordinances and the providing of the proper officers and means
to perform the work in such cases as they should elect to
undertake it, did not impose any legal obligation to undertake any particular work; and therefore, notwithstanding all
the allegations of the declaration respecting the ch-arter, and
the ordinances, and the appointment of harbor-master, were
admitted, yet it did not follow that the city were bound to
undertake the removal of this or any other obstruction; and
so no sufficient cause of action was set forth in the declaration.
Now, giving to this decision full effect, it does not touch
the case made by this libel. It decides that a case will not
lie against the eity for mere omission to act,.for the mere non-assumption of the power conferred over the harbor by the charter, by neglecting to undertake to remove a particular ob§truction.
The question of liability, in all cases where the city had
elected to act under the power, and had entered upon and
assumed the work, is therefore an open question, and this
court is at liberty to decide such a case in conformity with
their own views of the law and the facts.
It should be quite sufficient in a cause where the merits of

Dee. 1866.]

GOODRICH V. THE CITY.

571

Argument in favor of the estoppel.

the case seem confessedly with the plaintiff, and where sound
reason and authority sustain his action, to show that the case
made by the libel is not within the express point decided by
the Supreme Court of Illinois; and this court should, perhaps, if necessary, be " astute" to take the case out of that
decision.
As a mere technical bar, the force of a judgment at law,
when pleaded in admiralty, may be doubted on authority.
In England,* it has been held, by Dr. Lushington, in The Ann
and Mary, that an action at common law for damages caused
by a collision, will not affect the jurisdiction of the admiralty, and that the verdict of the jury, upon the facts of
the case, will not be conclusive upon the judgment of the
admiralty court. If this is so, the whole matter of the State
decision falls to the ground.
Mr. Irwin, contra:
That a judgment, on general demurrer to a declaration, is
a judgment on the merits, conclusive in a subsequent suit
where the parties and the cause of action are the same, is
reported law so far back as the time of Croket and Coke,.
and has been frequently decided with us.§
And notwithstanding the dicta of Dr. Lushington to the
contrary, in The Ann and Mary, there is no reason why the
rule should not apply with as much force in courts of admiralty as in regard to any other.
In Taylor v. The Royal Saxon,I it was held that the pendency of a replevin in a State court to settle the right of
property in a vessel is a bar to a libel in the admiralty to
settle the same right between the same persons, &c. Grier,
J., there says:
"But it is denied that this is a case of concurrent jurisdiction because of the different form and course of proceedings in a
*

2 W. Robinson, 190.

t' Ferrer et al. v. Arden, 2 Croke Eliz. 668.

Ferrer's Case, 6)leports, 7.

Bouchaud v. Dias, 3 Denio, 243; Robinson v. Howard, 5 California, 428;
Perkins v. Mloore, 16 Alabama, 17.
1 Wallace, Jr., 833.

572

GOODRICH V. THF CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the estoppel.

court of admiralty. This proceedi ng, it is said, is in rem, that all
the world is a party, while the action of replevin is a mere personal action of trespass; that, in the one case, the thing passes
into possession of the court; in the other, the delivery is mad"
by the officer, without any order or judgment of the court.
These distinctions, though ingenious, do not constitute a difference or furnish an argument to justify the court of admiralty
in disregarding the disposition made of this property by the law
of Pennsylvania, whether it be temporary or final."
Again, says the same judge:
"It is true that the court of admiralty, from the peculiarity
of her process and modes of proceeding, is more competent to
render speedy and exact justice to the parties than courts of
common law (more especially in disputes between part-owners);
but it cannot, on that assumption, disregard the disposition
made of this property by the law of Pennsylvania, whether it
be temporary or final."
This reasoning, though applied by his honor to what was
in effect a plea of lis pendens, applies with equal, if not
greater force, to a plea of res adjudicata.
Now, in this case, the declaration shows that the same
parties arc attempting to litigate the same subject-matter, or
points or questions in admiralty that were adjudicated and settled in the State court.
Look at the declaration as set out supra, p. 568, and at the
libel as Aet out just before it, at pp. 566-7. It will be seen
that the allegations in both are, in legal substance, the same.
And the parties and subject-.matter *f both actions are undeniably the same. They are both actions to recover damages sustained by reason of an alleged obstruction in the
Chicago River. The vessel injured is the same,-the Huron;
the time and cause of injury are the same; the liability of
the city is placed on the same ground in both actions, to wit,
a duty imposed in both cases by the same act of the legislature, and the same ordinances of the city, and the neglect to
perform or discharge it.
Nothing in the libel -or in the facts in the case changes the

Dec. 1866.]

GooDRICH v. THI

CITY.

573

Opinion of the court.

cause of action from what it was in the State court. The
liability of the city is based on its nonfeasance in both
courts; and does not the Supreme Court of Illinois decide
the qaestions raised in the ease at bar against the appellants ?
It matters not, here, and so far as the defence
of an estoppel is concerned, whether the decision in the State court was
right or wrong. It is sufficient that the parties appelant selected that tribunal to litigate their supposed grievances.
They must be content with the result. If a party, when defeated in one tribunal, is permitted to take his chance in
another, there can be no end to litigation ; fbr if defeated in
the second, he may in like manner resort to a third, and so
run the chance of all the courts in the country. Litigation
is harassing and veicatious enough to parties at best, but
break down and destroy the doctrine of res adjudieala, and it
would be intolerable, wholly.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered "theopinion of the court.
In the view which we have taken of the case, it will be
necessary to consider but a single point.
The appellants filed their libel to recover damages for the
sinking of their steamer Huron, in the Chicago River, near
its mouth. The casualty was caused by the steamer running
against a sunken wreck. The libel alleges that it was the
duty of the city to have it removed, and that it was guilty
of negligence in not having done so. It alleges further,
that the city entered upon the work of removal, but abandoned it before the result was accomplished.
Among the defences set up by tlhe answer of the respondent was, that of a final judgment in the Supreme Court of
Illinois, upon a general, demurrer to a declaration in an action at law by the appellants against the respondent for the
same cause of action.
The court below sustained the defence, and upon this
ground, and another not necessary to be stated, dismissed
the libel.
The record of the action at law is found among the proofs
in this case. Upon a careful examination of the declaration

574

THE PEARL.

[SLIP.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

and of the libel, we are constrained to say, there is no such
difference in the cases which they respectively make as can
take this case out of the operation of the principles of res
adjudieala.*
Whatever the result might be here, if this 'Obstacle were
out of the way, we have no choice but to apply the law in
this as in other cases.
DECREE AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

THE PEARL.'
A British vessel captured during the rebellion and our blockade of the South.
ern coast, by an American war steamer, on her way from England to
Nassau, N. P., condemned as intending/o run the blockade; Nassau being
a port which, though neutral within the definition furnished by international law, was constantly and notoriously used as a port of call and trans.
shipment by persons engaged in systematic violation of the blockade, and
in the conveyance of contraband of war; the vessel and cargo being
consigned to a house there well known, from previous suits, to the court,
as so engaged; the second officer of the vessel, and several of the sea.
men, examined in preparatorio,testifying strongly that the purpose of
the vessel was to break the blockade; and the owner, who was heard,
on leave given to him to take further proof, touching the use he intended
to make of the steamer after arrival in Nassau, and in what trade or
business he intended she should be engaged in, and for what purpose
she was going to that port, saying and showing nothing at all on those
points.

APPEAL from the District Court of the United States for
the Southern District of Florida, restoring, on payment by
the claimants of expenses and costs, the steamer Pearl, captured for intent to break the blockade of our Southern coast.,
established during the late rebellion; the question being
ebiefly of fact.

Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States,
Mr. Marvin, contra,for the claimants.
* Duchess- of Kingston's Case and the notes, 2 Smith's Leading Cases.

424; Bendernagle v. Cocks, 19 Wendell, 208.

