Dec. 1866.]

DE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.

419

Syllabus,

doctrine. Examples in which this is asserted are found in
The Mayor, &c., of Brooklyn v. Meserole,* and in Heywood v.
The Oily of Btffalo,t and in the cases there cited.t
The complainant can ask no greater relief in the courts
of the United States than he could obtain were lie to resort
to the, State courts. If in the latter courts equity would afford no relief, neither will it in the former.
The second object of the bill-the obtaining of compensation for the property actually appropriated by the city-falls
with the first. If the proceedings for its appropriation were
void, the title remains in the complainant, and lie can resort
to the ordinary remedies afforded by the law for the recovery
of the possession of real property wrongfully withheld.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

IDE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.
1. In bringing appeals to this court from the Court of Claims, the record
must be prepared strictly according to the General Rules announced on
the subject of.that class of appeals at. December Term, 1865, and printed
at large in 3 Wallace, vii-viii.
Hence only such statement of facts is to be sent up to this court as may be
necessary to enable it to decide upon the correctness of the propositions
of law ruled below; and this statement is to be presented in the shape
of the facts found by that court to be established by the evidence in such
form as to raise the question of law decided by the court. It should not
include the evidence in detail.
2.Where a resolution of Congress authorized one of the executive departments to settle, on principles of justice and equity, all damages, losses,
and liabilities incurred or sustained by certain parties who had contracted to manufacture brick for the government, Provided I' that the said
parties first surrender to the United States all the brick made, together
with all the machines and applianees, and other personal property prepared for executing the said contract, and that said contract be cancelled," an award is not within the resolution, which, taking a surrender
of real estate-the brick-yard-where the brick, machinery, and appliances were, makes allowance for it. Nor will another award be brought
within the submission, because the party, being dissatisfied with the
first award, Congress has referred the matter to another executive de26 Wendell, 132.
$ See also Scott v. Onderdonk, Id. 9.

t 4 Kernanm, 584.

DE

GROOT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
partment, directing it to settle the claim, but prescribing for the mode
of settlement essentially the same principles by which the settlement
was to be made by the department first authorized.
3. Although, as a general rule, where an award exceeds the submission, it is
not invalid if the part which is in excess can be separated from the
residue; yet where, on a submission of a claim for compensation for
breach of contract, an award is made of one gross sum-this embracing
an allowance for matters that are not within the submission, as well as
for matters that are, and where it is impossible for the court to apportion the parts,-thc case is not within the rule. Such an award is not
obligatory on the party disadvantageously affected by it.
4. Where the head of one of the executive departments, appointed by resolution of Congress to settle a claim made against the government, exceeds, in making his award, the powers conferred upon him, Congress
may revoke, by a repeal of the resolution appointing him, the authority
conferred on him. And if, by the repealing act, it refer the case to the
Court of Claims, it comes to that court with whatever limitations Congress by its resolution may prescribe; and the court must accept the
resolution as the law of that case.

from the Court of Clains. The case was, in substance, thus:
The United States being engaged in building a large aqueduct at Washington, D. C., Do Groot entered into a contract
with it to furnish it with several millions of bricks, and to
commence the preparation of a brick-yard and machinery
within a time named, so as to perform the contract of delivery. Some delay or difficulty arising as t6 the completion
of the work, and De Groot having laid out a good deal of
money in his enterprise (which, it seemed, included the purchase of a large brick-yard), applied to Congress for relief.
Congress accordingly, on the 3d March, 1857, passed a joint
APPEAL

resolution, " that the Secretary of the Treasury shall settle

and adjust with all the parties interested therein, on principles
of justice and equity, all damages, losses, and liabilities incurred or sustained by said parties respectively on account of
their contract for manufacturing brick for the Washington
aqueduct;" and he was directed to pay the amount found
due out of an appropriation specified. This joint resolution
contained, however, the following proviso:
"Provided, That the said parties first surrender to the United
States all the brick made, together with, all the machinery and ap.

Dec. 1866.]

IDE GROOT V.

UNITED STATES.

421

Statement of the case.

pliances and other personal property prepared for executing the
said contract, and that the said contract be cancelled."
Soon after the passage of this resolution De Groot made,
by deed, a surrender to the United States of " all the brick
made, together with all the machinery and appliances and
other personal property prepared for executing the contract
for manufacturing brick for the Washington aqueduct; which
property so surrendered is situated upon the tract of land,
containing fifty acres, known as Hunting Park," &c. The
deed then recited"And whereas the said land was purchased, a brick-yard
thereon opened, sheds and kilns erected, a steam engine put up,
and machinery and appliances prepared for executing the said
contract: And whereas the said premises, with the brick-yard,
shed, kilns, engine, and machinery thereon, and the use of the
clay and materi'al thereof, are valuable and useful to the United
States for manufacturing brick for the Washington aqueduct,
and Captain K, C. Aleigs, engineer in charge of' the Washington aqueduct, has requested possession of said premises, with
the use of the clay and materials thereof, for the United States,
and possession thereof hath accordingly been given to him :"
And it concluded with a lease of the brick-yard, sheds, kilns,
and appurtenances, to the government jbr ten years, or until the
completion of the aqueduct, together with the privilege, of digging
and using the clay, .c.
This being done, the Secretary of the Treasury awarded
$29,534.
De Groot received $7576 on account of this award, but
being dissatisfied with it as too small, petitioned Congress
again on the subject. That body then passed (June 15, 1860)
another joint resolution:
"That in the further execution of the joint resolution of the 3d
of Ma114rch, 1857, relative to the settlement of the damages, losses,
and liabilities incurred by certain parties interested in the contract for furnishing brick for the Washington aqueduct, the Secretary of War is directed and required to settle the account of

Dr

GROOT V.

[Sup. Ct.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

W. I. De Groot on 'principles of justice and equity, allowing to
the said Do Greet the amount of money actually expended by him
in and about the execution of the said contract; and also to indemnify him for such losses, liabilities, and damagesas by virtue of the
said joint resolution he was entitled to receive; the amount, &c., to
be paid out of the fund named in said joint resolution, or if that
has been diverted to other purposes, out of any money in the
Treasury," &c.
Under this resolution the then Secretary of War, Mr. J.
B. Floyd, made an award. After estimating the probable
profits of the contract and the pice of the brick delivered
and surrendered by De Greet under the proviso, Mr. Floyd
proceeded:
"But it must be remembered that when Mr. Do Groot's con.
tract was surrondered, he delivered to the United States the
brick-yard at Hunting Park, with its appurtenances, machinery, and improvements. All these he would have retained had
his contract been carried out. But this property was surrendered to the United States in compliance with the requirements
of the joint resolution of March 3, 1857. It was, I think, clearly
the intention of Congress to make compensation for the loss
which he thus, sustained. And accordingly, in addition to the
damages already-allowed, it is proper to refund to Mr. Do Greet
such items of expenditure as were necessarily involved in the
purchase and improvement of his brick-yard and its appurtenances. These are stated on the schedule, which is supported by
vouchers,
"Amounting to,

.

$29,323 22

Add estimated profits,
Add price of brick delivered and surrendered by Do Greet,
Total amount,

....

.

86,922 81
28,606 34
$144.862 37"

[From this amount were deducted the $7576 received by Do

Grdet, and certain other items, amounting, in all, to],
Leaving a balance of,..

25,617 91
$19,234 46

This award, for some reason, was not paid; and on the
21st of February, 1861, Congress passed a joint resolution:

Dec. 1866.]

DE GRooT

v. UNITED STATES.

428

Statement of the case.

"That the joint resolution approved June 15, 1860, for the relief of' W. H. Do Groot, be, and the same is hereby, repealed;
and that the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, directed to
transmit all the papers in his department relating to the case
of the said W. I. De Greet to the Court of Claims for adjudi.
cation."

In that court De Groot filed his petition, setting forth t
history of the case, and stating that he had surrendered the
whole entire property to the United States, which the U-nited States had sinoe been using and now occupied. That
under the resolution of June 15, 1860, the Secretary of War,
after a careful examination of the 6ase and of all the evidence
in it, had adjudged that there was due to hini $119,234.46.
That this award was made August 17, 1860; that it was
fairly made, and that the amount still remained due to the
claimant.
Ie averred that the joint resolution of 2ist
February, 1861, repealing the resolution under which the
award had been made, was passed after the award had been
made and published, and after he had a vested right in ita right, therefore, of which Congress could not deprive him;
and he set up that the said repealing resolution was accordingly void and inoperative.
Without, therefore, submitting any evidence to sustain
his original cause of action, Do Groot rested his case entirely upon the validity and conclusiveness of the award
made by Mr. Floyd, the Secretary of War; giving proof,
however, to show that the ease was carefully examined by
Mr. Floyd, and that his award was given fairly and without
interest, corruption, or bias. De Groot accordingly claimed
the amount of the award.
To the petition presented as above stated the United
States demurred.
A majority of the Court of Claims was of opinion "that
from the showing of the plaintiff, as alleged in his petition,
the Secretary of War had transcended his authority in undertaking to award for the value of the real estate; which
was not embraced in the resolution of the 3d of March,
1857, among the property which the parties were required

424

DE GROOT

v. UNITED STATES.

[Slip.

t.

Statement of the case.

to surrender, and that the finding of the Secretary was
therefore void as an award, because it exceeded the submis.
sion." But the court also thought that the facts and circumstances alleged constituted a cause of action independent
and irrespective of the award; and that as the repealing
resolution referred the case to that court for adjudication,
that it would stand there on its merits, unaffected by the
award, and to be decided on any proofs submitted. Stating
the matter in its own more specific way, the court held and
decided, among other things"1st. That by including in the award the value or price of the
real estate upon which the brick-yard was located, Floyd exceeded the powers conferred upon him by the joint resolutions
Of Congress.
"2d. That having commingled such allowances with the general finding in such manner as to be incapable of separation, it
thereby vitiated the whole award.
" 4th. Floyd having thus exceeded the powers conferred upon
him, it was competent fbr Congress to disaffirm his acts and revoke the authority conferred upon him by a repeal of the resolution under which he acted."
And they added as another point: "That no sufficient evidence having been given to sustain any part of the claim,
irrespective of Floyd's award, which they had held invalid,
.judgment had been rendered for the defendants."
The case being thus decided in the Court of Claims, De
Groot made known to it his desire to bring it here for
review.
The judgment of the Court of Claims was rendered in
December, 1865. Subsequently to that date, to wit, at December Term, 1865, the Supreme Court announced among
its General Rules,* certain "Regulations," as fbllows:
* 8 Wallace, vii.

Dec. 1860.]

DE GReeT

V. UNITED STAT.S.

425

Statement of the case.

Regulations under which appeals may be taken from the Court of
Claims to the Supreme Court.
RULE I.

In all cases hereafter decided in the Court of Claims in which,
by the act of Congress, such appeals are allowable, they shall be
heard in the Supreme Court upon the following record, and none
other:
1. A transcript of the pleadings in the case, of the final judgment or decree of the court, and of such interlocutory orders,
rulings, judgments, and decrees as may be necessary to a proper
review of the case.
2. A finding of the facts in the case by the said Court of
Claims, and the conclusions of law on said facts on which the
court founds its judgment or decree.
The finding of the facts and the conclusion of law to be stated
separately, and certified to this court as part of the record.
The facts so found are to be the ultimate facts or propositions
which the evidence shall establish, in the nature of a special
verdict, and not the evidence on which these ultimate facts are

founded.

See Burr v. Des Moines Company.*
RULE II.

In all cases in which judgments or decrees have'heretofore been
rendered, when either party is by law entitled to an appeal, the
party desiring it shall make application to the Court of Claims
by petition for the allowance of such appeal. Said petition
shall contain a distinct specification of the errors alleged to
have been committed by said court in its ruling, judgment, or
decree in the case. The court shall, if the specification of alleged error be correctly and accurately stated, certify the same,
or may certify such alterations and modifications of the points
decided and alleged for error as in the judgment of said court
shall distinctly, fully, and fairly present the poirtts decided by
the court. This, with the transcript mentioned in Rule I (ex.
cept the statement of facts and law therein mentioned), shall
constitute the record on which those cases shall be heard in the
Supreme Court.
1 Wallace, 102.

DE

GROOT V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Under a supposed conformity with these rules, the record
in the case had been made. As it came before this court, it
consisted of 244 pages. The first forty were occupied by
De Groot's petition for appeal. This document contained
the petitioner's statement of his case, copies of contracts;
of the different resolutions, already mentioned, of Congress;
of the awards made by the Secretaries of the Treasury and
of War; of pleadings and opinions in the court below and
of sonic other papers.
At the close of the document there was an entry by the
court below, that the petition not being, in the opinion of
the court, in accordance with the rules prescribed by the
Supreme Court of the United States regulating appeals, that
the Court of Claims had certified "the following alterations and modifications of the points decided and alleged for
error."
The Court. of Claims then, itself, made a statement of
facts, adding,-the same being presented (supra, at p. 424),what it held and decided upon them; all this occupying only
about fourteen pages.
As appearing in the printed transcript before the court,
this statement by the court was set pretty much in the body
of the book, and was not very distinguishable to the eye
from its other various contents. The opinions of the court
were annexed at large. The several matters specified occupied the first seventy-two pages of the book. Following
this were all the proofs that had been filed in the Court of
Claims-these occupying one hundred and seventy-six pages;
and, being returned, as it was certified, by request of counsel, in order "to enable the Supreme Court to judge whether plaintiff proved any claim independent of the award,
and to review the ruling refusing to strike out defendant's
evidence."
On this record the case was now here for review.
Messrs. low, D. B. Field, and Ienry Bennett, for the appel.
lant.
Mr. Weed, Assistant Solicitor of the Court of Claims, contra.

Dec. 1866.]

DE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the first appeal from the Court of Claims which wc
have been called upon to consider since the rules franied by
this court regulating such appeals; and the inconsistency
between the record presented and the requirements of those
rules calls for some observations in this place.
This case, having been decided before they were published,
comes under the provisions of the second rule. The object of
that rule, as well as of the first, is lo present in simple form
the questions of law which arose in the progress of the case,
and which were decided by the court adversely to appellant.
Only such statement of facts is intended to be broughlt to
this court as may be necessary to enable it to decide upon
the correctness of the propositions of law ruled by the Court
of Claims, and that is to be presented in the shape of the
facts found by that court to be established by the evidence
(in such form) as to raise the legal question decided by the
court. It should not include the evidence in detail.
We have here, beside this simple statement, a uccord of
two hundred and forty pages of printed matter, of which it
is fair to say that two hnidred are details of evidence excluded by the rule. We were inclined at 1irst to dismiss the
appeal for want of a proper record, but upon a closer examination it was discovered that the court below had in good
faith complied with the rule, so far as to give the certified
statement of the facts found, and of their legal conclusions
thereon, and this, with the pleadings, judgment, and other
orders in the case, enables us to examine the alleged error
in the rulings of the court within the principles we have
6tated.
The court, however has, at the request of claimant's counsel, returned the evidence on both sides, which makes the
bulky and useless part of the record.
We take this occasion to say that we shall adhere strictly
to the rules we have prescribed, and shall regard no other
matter found in the transcripts sent to us tham what they
allow, and that in proper cases the costs of the useless part of
the record will be taxed against the party who brings it here.

DE GROOT V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

With these preliminary remarks, we proceed to examine
the merits of the case.
It is a claim against the United States founded on an
award. The statement of facts by the eurt below informs
us that "the claimant has not seen proper to submit any
evidence to sustain his original cause of action, but rests his
case entirely upon the validity and conclusiveness of the
award made by the Secretary of War."
Among other conclusions of' law, the court held the following in reference to this award, whicb, as they dispose of,
the case, are all that we need consider.
" 1st. That by including in the award the value or price
of the real estate upon which the brick-yard was located,
Floyd exceeded the powers conferred upon him by the joint
resolutions of Congress.
"2d. That having commingled such allowances with the
general inding in such manner as to be incapable of separation, it thereby vitiated the whole aivard.
"4th. Floyd having thus exceeded the powers conferred
upon him, it was competent for Congress to disaffirm his
acts and revoke the authority conferred upon him, by a repeal
of the res(flution under which he acted."
That part of the record which is here decided not to be
within the submission is thus stated in the award itself:
"It must be remembered that when Mr. De Groot's contract was surrendered le delivered to the United States the
brick-yard at Hunting Park, with its appurtenances, machinery, and improvements. All these lie would have retained had his contract been carried out. But this property
was surrendered to the United States in compliance with
the requirements of the joint resolution of March 3, 1857.
It was, I think, clearly the intention of Congress to make
compensation for the loss which he thus sustained. And,
accordingly, in addition to the damages already allowed, it
is proper to refund to Mr. De Groot such items of expenditure as were necessarily involved in the purchase and
improvement of his brick-yard and its appurtenances.

Dec. 1866.]

DE GROOT

V. UNITED STATES.

429

Opinion of the court.
"These are stated on the schedule, which is supported by
vouchers, amounting to

&dd estimated profits,
.86,922
Add price of brick delivered and surrendered by Do Groot,
Total amount,.

$29,323 22

81
28,603 34
$144,852 37"

The award then deducts certain payments made, leaving
a balance of $119,234.46.
The joint resolution above mentioned of March 3, 1857,
lies at the foundation of this claim.
And it is pretty clear that, without the proviso at the close
of the resolution, the Secretary dould have acted on no other
principle than that of compensating the parties interested for
losses and damages growing out of a suspension or abandonment of the contract by the government, and that this must
have been based upon the position of the parties as they
stood at the time the resolution passed. What brick the
claimants had delivered would have been the property ofthe United States. All the brick they had on hand not delivered, with the materials, tools, machines, and grounds,
would have been the property of claimants, and the damages growing out of this branch of the inquiry would have
been the loss sustained by these.being rendered useless or
less valuable to their%
owners, because no longer required in
fulfilling the contract to make brick.
In what respect, then, does the proviso change this basis
of estimating damages? It changes it by requiring the
claimants to transfer to the United States certain things
they were using in the manufacture of brick for the government, and allowing compensation for the value of those
things, instead of damages for their deterioration. The
things thus to be surrendered were "all the brick made, together with all the machinery and appliances, and other personal property prepared for executing the contract."
It is not possible to hold that the land on which the bricks
were made, or any improvements on it which had become
part of the realty, comes within any of the classes of prop.
erty here enumerated. It was not bricks; it was not machinery or appliances, and it was not personal property. The

430

IDE GRoOT v. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

phrase " ot1er personal property'" ilnlies that only personal property had been previously described.
It is true that the Secretary of War, in making his award,
did not derive his power to act as arbitrator from the joint
resolution which we have been construing, but from another
joint resolution of June 15, 1860. The first resolution referred the matter to the Secretary of the Treasury, and that
officer having made his award. Mr. De Groot, after receiving
under it $7576, refused to abide by it, and applied to Congress for further relief. That body referred his claim to the
Secretary of War by the resolution of June 15, 1860, but
directed him to proceed in the further execution of the resolution. of March 3, 1857, and to indemnify De Groot for
such losses, liabilities, and damages as by virtue, of said joint
resolution he was entitled to receive. It wiltlthus be seen,
that while the tribunal was changed, it wax to be governed
by the principles prescribed by the rcsolution which we
have just construed.
The Secretary of War, then, manifestly exceeded his
powers as arbitrator when he awarded to claimant the value
of the real estate on which the brick-yard was located, and
the money involved in the'purchase of it by said claimant.
It is, however, not always that an award is invalid because
in some respects it exceeds the submission, for it is said that
if the part which is in excess can be clearly separated from
the remainder which is within the submission, the latter
may stand.
This, as a general rule, is true, but it is subject to some
qualifications, one of which is expressed by Chief Justice
Marshall, speaking for this court in the case of Carnochan v.
Christie,* to the effect, that the award to be valid ought to
be in itself a complete adjustmentof the controversies submitted to the arbitrators.
There is no means by which the sum allowed by the Secretary for this land can be separated from the other allowances made for the personal property, machines, and appli* 11 Wheaton, 446.

Dec. 1866.]

DE GROOT V.

UNITED STATES.

431

Opinion of the court.

antes transferred by claimant to the United States. They
are all summed up in one grand item of $29,323.22. What
proportion of this item is for the land it is impossible to tell.
If we reject the whole of this item,-then the claimant has no
allowance for the machines, appliances, and personal property transferred to the governmelit, and for the real loss in
the purchase of land, and improvements placed on it for this
specific purpose, the value of which must be much diminished
by diverting it from that use.
It thus appears that the arbitrator has exceeded his authority in some respects, that he has failed to award as to
other matters submiitted to him, and that in the award made,
these matters cannot be distinguished from each other.
The United States cannot, after having twice referred
these matters to arbitration-the second time on account of
the dissatisfaction of the claimant with the result of the first
-be bound now to accept an award which clearly does not
dispose of part of the demands submitted, and which allows
large sums for matters not submitted.
If these views be sound, the two first propositions of law
decided by the Court of Claims were well decided.
We think the fourth proposition equally clear.
The government of the Tnited States cannot be sued fbr
a claim or demand against it without its consent. This rule
is carried so far by this court, that it has been held that
when the United States is plaintiff in one of the Federal
courts, and the defendant has pleaded a set-off which the
acts of Congress have authorized him to rely on, no judgment can be rendered against the government, although it
may be judicially ascertained that on striking a balance of
just demands the government is indebted to the defendant
in an ascertained amount. And if the United States shall
sue an individual in any of her courts, and fail to establish
a claim, no judgment can be rendered for the costs expended
by the defendant in his defence.
If, therefore, the Court of Claims has the right to enter.
tain jurisdiction of cases in which the United States is de.
fendant, and to render judgment against that defendant, it

DE GROOT V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Cto

Opinion of the court.

is only by virtue of acts of Congress granting such jurisdiction, and it is limited precisely to such cases, both in regard
to parties and to the cause of action, as Congress has prescribed.
It is true that ordinarily, when we seek for the foundation
of this jurisdiction, we look to the general laws creating the
court, and defining causes of which it may have cognizance.
But it is equally true that whenever Congress chooses to
withdraw from that jurisdiction any class of cases which had
before been committed to its control, as it has done more
than once, it has the power to do so, or to prescribe the rule
by which such cases may be determined. Its right to do
this in regard to any particular case, as well as to-a class of
cases, must rest on the same foundation ; and n.o reason can
be perceived why Congress may not at any time withdraw a
particular case from the cognizance of that court, or prescribe in such case the circumstances under which alone the
court may render a judgment against the government.
The Court of Claims, in the adjudication of the case before us, has been acting under one of these special acts of
the legislative department. A third joint resolution on the
subject of this claim was passed by Congress and approved
July 21st, 1861, some months after the award of the Secretary of War was published. This resolution declares "that
the joint resolution approved June 15th, 1860, for the relief
of W. I-. De Groot, be, and the same is hereby, repealed,
and that the Secretary of War be, and he is hereby, directed
to transmit all papers in his department relating to the case
of said W. H. De Groot to the Court of Claims for exanination."
The case being thus transferred from the Secretary of War
to the Court of Claims, with a repeal of the resolution under
which the Secretary had acted, must be considered as coining into that court with the limitations prescribed by that
resolution. This shows very clearly that Congress intended
that no judgment should be rendered against the government on the award of the Secretary of War, but that the
examination to be made by the Court of Claims should be

Dec. 1866.1

IICHOLS v. LEVY.
Statement of the case.

free from that embarrassment. Could that court entertain
jurisdiction of the case, and violate this requirement?
It is said by claimant that the case did not come into that
court under that resolution, but was brought there by his
own petition. But, however it may have come there, the
rule prescribed by Congress adheres to it, if Congress had
the right to prescribe it. Entertaining no doubt of the
power of the legislative body to define the terms on which
judgments may b,3 rendered against the government as to
classes of cases, or as to individual cases, we think the Court
of Claims was bound to accept the resolution of February,
1861, as the law of the case in that court. The effect of this
resolution on the award, if it should ever come in question
in a court not limited by the restrictions which govern that
court, we need not decide.
As we can only consider here, what judgment that court
should have rendered, we conclude that its judgment was
right, and it is therefore
Az~FFIR MED.

NICiHOLS V. LEVY.
1. Where a State court,-interpreting a statute of its own State, which gave
such court jurisdiction to subject legal and equitable interests in real eslate to the claim of creditors,-decided that the statute embraced trusts
like one in question (which judgment creditors were seeking to set
aside), and that it exempted the property embraced by the trust from
liability to such creditors-this court followed that construction of the
statute and sustained the trust, though they remarked that if the question had been to be treated by them on general principles of jurisprudence, and independently of the State decision on the statute, the judgment would necessarily have been the other way.
2. An estate in vested remainder is liable to debts the same as one in possession.
Hence, where creditors seek to subject, bybill in equity, to their claims an
estate in such vested remainder, and it is decided that they cannot do it,
the matter will be considered as res adjudieate,if they afterwards try to
levy, by execution, on the same property, when, by the death of the
tenant for life, it has become an estate in possession.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Tennessee.
In that court, James Beal Nichol and John Nichol, Jr
VOL. V.

28

