Dec. 1866.]

INSURANCE COMPA.NY V.

CHASE.

509

Statement of the case.

themselves had been in the possession and enjoyment of the
premises for a period exceeding that for which the interest
on the purchase-money had been paid, which, at least, must
be regarded as an equivalent for the money thus paid.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. CHASE.

One of five trustees of a church edifice, being the agent of an Insurance
Company, accepted a risk in it from another of the trustees to whom
the church was indebted, the policy being in the individual name of
the insuring trustee, with a proviso that in case of loss the amount
should be paid to a creditor of him the insuring trustee, to whom, however, the church was not indebted. The insuring trustee paid the premiums out of his own funds-but on account of the parish, fnd with the
assent of the trustees; and the fact of two previous insu.rances in other
companies, where the insurance was made in the name of the proprietors
of the church generally, was recited in this policy made in the individual name of the one trustee. A loss having occurredKeld, that the creditor of the insuring trustee was entitled to recover on
the policy; the case showing that the insurance in the form in which it
was made, was made with the assent of all the trustees, and it being a
matter immaterial to the company (supposing the risk to be the same)
whether the person appointed by the insuring trustee to receive the
money retained it to his own use or paid it to the trustees.

the Circuit Court for the District of Maine.
This controversy arose on a policy of insurance. The undrwriter admitted the loss by fire, but denied the obligation
to pay, chiefly because the party insured, had not an insurable interest in the property which was destroyed.
The case was this: William Chase, Sewall Chase, J. F.
Day, John Yeaton, and J. W. Munger were the trustees of
the Congregational Church on Congress Street, in Portland,
and held the legal title to it, in trust for the society. Munger, one of the trustees, was also the agent at Portland of
two insurance companies c:eated by the laws of Massachusetts,-the Howard and the Springfield. On the 25th of
N vember. 1859., he took fire risks for each company to the
ERROR to

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

CHASE.

[Sup. Ct,

Statement of the case.

amount of $5000 on the church property-the party assured
in the Springfield Company being described in the policy as
"The proprietors of the iniou Church, Portland, Maine,"
and in the Howard Company as "William Chase, of Portland, Maine, payable, in case of loss, to Grenville M. Chase."
Each policy contained a statement of the several sums for
which the property was insured in the different companies.
Prior to these contracts of insurance, the Continental Insurance Company of New York had insured the church for
an equal amount in the name of the proprietors; but the
policy, although dated in 1857, recites the risks taken by the
Springfield and Howard Companies in 1859. The reasonable explanation of this, being, that when the policy was
afterwards renewed, these'additional risks were incorporated
into it,
William Chase, the assured in the Howard policy, was the
treasurer of the parish for several years, and paid the premiums on the policies and the renewals of them. The premiums on the Springfield and Continental policies were
charged to the parish; the Howard premiums were not, but
were paid out of his private means, on account of the parish,
which was done with the assent of the trustees. The society
was indebted to William Chase in the sum of $15,000, but
not to G. M. Chase. William Chase was, however, indebted
to G. M. Chase, and obtained tle Howard policy to secure
him.
All this appeared by William Chase's own testimony, he
having been called by the defendants in the case, and the
only witness in it.
The church was badly damaged by fire on the 15th of
March, 1862, and the Springfield and Continental Companies, recognizing their liability, paid to the trustees twothirds of the loss sustained by the fire. The Howard Company declining to pay, were sued by G. M. Chase, the payee
in the policy, for the remaining third.
The declaration set forth that "William Chase was the
owner and possessor in trust of the Union Congregational
brick and slated Church," &c., and that "said Insurance

Dec. 1866.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. CHASE.

511

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Company in consideration of a premium in money then and
there paid to them therefore by said William, made a policy
of insurance, and thereby agreed to and with said William
to insure upon said property," &c.
Under instructions of the court a verdict and judgment
were given for the plaintiffs, and the case was now brought
here on error.
l-Aessrs. Fessenden and Butler, for the plaintiff in error:
I. There is a fatal variance between the allegation of interest in the declaration and the proof.
The allegation is, that William Chase was "the owner and
possessor in trust."
The proof offered was, that William Chase was one of five
trustees.
An averment of an entire interest is not supported by
proof of a joint interest.*
The legal title to the church was vested in five trustees,
and to give validity to their acts, it was necessary that they
should act jointly in what concerned the joint property.
I. Regarding the insurance as " for the parish," the
plaintiff is limited by the proof of the interest of William
Chase, as trustee-viz. : one-fifth, as lie was only one of five
trustees.
1. Because he had no other interest.
2. Because he does not aver that anything more than his
individual interest was insured, and the policy contains no
formal words-as " for whom it may concern."t
III. If th.e preceding point is sound, then, as there were
two other policies on the same property to an equal amount
each, for the benefit of the same parties, the plaintiff in this
* Graves v. Boston Mar. Ins. Co., 2 Cranch, 419;

Phillips on Insurance,

3d ed., vol. 2, 1 20, 21, p. 614; Bell v. Ansley, 16 East, 141; Cohen v Hannam, 5 Taunton, 101; Catlett v. Keith, 1 Paine, 594; Burgher ct al. v.

Col. Ins. Co., 17 Barbour, 274.
t" Cases cited under 1st point:

Phillips on Insurance, 1,

380; Dumas v.

Jones, 4 Massachusetts, 647; Pearson v. Lord, 6 Id. 81; Finney v. Warren
Ins. Co., 1 Metcalf, 16;

Same v. Bedford Ins. Co., 8 Id.

Burrows, 5 Wendell, 541.

348;

Turner r

512

INSURANCE COMPANY V.

CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

action can recover only one-fifth of one-third, on the same
principle.
IV. The proof shows that William Chase, having no other
interest than as trustee, in fact insured the property for his
individual benefit, and not " for the parish."
Having had no other interest than as trustee, and having
insured the property in terms for his individual benefit, he
could not recover.
Such insurance is void, either with or without notice to
insurers.
1. Because insurance is simply a contract of indemnity,
and the insured had no personal interest for the loss of
which he could be indemnified.
2. Because if without notice to insurers, it is a fraud upon
them. One ot the first elements, entering into the question
of risk, is the interest of the assured to protect the property.
If he has no pecuniary interest in the trust property, as in
case of a mortgage, it is for his interest that a loss should
occur, for he is thereby benefited. Had instructions to this
effect been given, the jury would have found a different And
proper verdict.
3. Whether with or without notice, such insurance is void,
because against public policy, tending to create an interest
in the destruction of the property, and adverse to the interest of the cestui que trust.
Mr. John Rand, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
A recovery in this case is strenuously resisted, because it
is said the individual interest of William Chase was insured,
and not his interest as a trustee; and, as his only interest
was that of a trustee, it follows th' t the contract of insurance
was a gaming one, and void from considerations of public
policy.
A contract of insurance, is intended to indemnify one who
is insured against an uncertain event, which, if it occurs, will
cause him loss or damage. The assured must therefore have

Dec. 1366.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. CHASE.

513

Opinion of the court.

an interest in the property insured; otherwise, there is a
temptation to destroy it, which sound policy condemins.
If,then, the Howard Company did not insure the interest
of William Chase as a trustee (it i3 conceded he had no
other), the policy is void, although he was a creditor of the
church, paid a fair premium for the policy, and disclosed
everything to the underwriter. But the recovery in this
case, is based on the ground that William Chase had an insurab'le interest as trustee, and insured the property fsr the
benefit of the society. The declaration expressly avers that
William Chase, being the owner and possessor in trust of
the Union Congregational Church, for a premium paid in
money, effected an insurance on the property in the Howard
Insurance Company. If this were true, and the proofs sustained it, the verdict and judgment of the Circuit Court cannot be disturbed. It is utnee.sary in this case to discuss
the general law of insurance with reference to what interests
are, or are not insurable. The courts of this country, as
welt as England, are well disposed to maintain policies,
where it is clear that the party assured had an interest
which would be injured, in the event that the peril insured
against should happen.
That a trustee having no personal interest in the property
may procure an insurance on it, is a doctrine too well settled
to need a citation of authorities to confirm it. As early as
1802, the judges of the Exchequer Chamber, in the case of
Lueewa v. Craofurd,* held, that an agent, trustee, or consignee Could insure, and that it was not necessary that the
assured shoTld have a beneficial interest in the property insured, and the rule established by this case, has ever since
been followed by the c.ourts of this country and Englandj3 Bosanquet & Puller, 75.
- Columbian Insurance Company v. Lawrence, 2 Peters, 25; S. C., 10
Peters,,.510; Swift v. Mutual Fire Insurance Company, 18 Vermont, 313,
note by R~edfield, J. ; Goodall v New England Fire Insurance Company, 5
Foster, 186; 2 Greenleaf's Evidence,
379; Parsons's Mercantile Law, chapter 18,
3; Putnam v. Mercantile Insurance Company, 5 Metcalf, 386;
Angell on Life and Fire Insurance,
56, 57, 73; Craufurd v. Hunter, 8
Term, 13.
VOL. V.
83

INSURANCE COMPANY

V.

CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

A trustee, therefore, having the right, is justified in in-

Buring the property, even to its full value, although there is
no obligation on him, in the absence of express directions,
to insure at all.*
But it is argued, that the legal title to the Congregational
Church was vested in five trustees, and that to give validity
to their acts, they must act jointly in whatever they do for
the benefit of the property.
It is true, that in the administration of the trust, where
there is more than one trustee, all must concur, but the entire body can direct one of their number to transact business, which it may be inconvenient for the others to perform,
and the acts of the one thus authorized, are the acts of all.
and binding on all. The trustee thus acting is to be considered the agent of all the trustees, and not as an individual
trustee.t If, within the scope of his agency, be procures an
insurance, it is for the other trustees, as well as himself. If
he does it without authority, still it is a valid contract, which
the underwriter cannot dispute, if his co-trustees subsequently ratify it.t In fict, so liberal is the rule on this subject, that where a part-owner of property effects an insurance fbr himself and others, without previous authority, the
act is sufficiently ratified, where suit is brought on the p~licy
in their names.ยง
It is contended that the contract of insurance, being in
the name of Wiiliam Chase, could only cover his individual
interest, or, at the furthest, but the fractional part of the interest which he had as trustee. But the law of insurance is
otherwise; for, as any one having any legal interest in property can insure it as his own, and in his own name, without
specifying the nature of his interest, it follows that if WilLewin's Law of Trusts and Trustees, 383; Page v. Western Insurance
Company, 19 Louisiana, 49 ; 1 Phillips on Insurance, 163; Angell on Fire
and Life Insurance, . 73.
- The Law of Trusts and Trustees, by Tiffany and Ballard, pp. 539, 640,
and the cases there cited.
: Blanchard v. Waite, 28 Maine, 59.
Funey v. The Fairhaven Insurance Company, 5 Metcalf, 192.

Dec. 1866.]

INSURANCE COMPANY V. CHASE.

515

Opinion of the court.

liamChase insured the church with the assent of his cotrustees, for the benefit of the cestui que trust, that the, insurance company cannot complain, that the character of the
interest was not incorporated in the policy, unless, if described, it would have had an influence on them not to underwrite at all, or not to underwrite except at a, highei'
premium than the one actually paid by the insurer.* It has
been held in some cases, that the party applying for insurance need not disclose his interest, unless asked by the insurer.
Whether the disclosure of the interest was material to the
risk incurred, and would have enhanced the premium, is
always a question of fact for the jury.
Applying these rules and principles of mercantile law, to
the ficts of this case (for evidence is properly receivable
aliunde the policy, to explain the character of the interest
insured), is it not apparent, that the defenceq interposed
cannot avail the insupance company? Could Munger, who
issued t-le policy, and was a co-trustee with William Chase,
have been in ignorance, that the property was insured for the
benefit of the parish ? If so, why was he not called to contradict William Chase, who testified that although he paid
the premiums on the original policy, and for each renewal,
out of his private funds, yet it was done for the parish and
with tle assent of the trustees.
If this statement was untrue, and Munger did not authorize the payments of the premium on account of the parish,
it was surely his duty to the company he represented to have
denied it. Not having clone so, the inference is irresistible
that William Chase told the truth. If he did, there is an
end of the controversy, for an assent on the part of the trustees to the payment of the premiums, is an assent to the procurement of the policy of insurance. Besides, this authority
was a continuing one, for the policy was several times renewed, and each time for the benefit of the parish. The
jury had no right to disregard the evidence of Wdl|iam
* Parsons on Mercantilo Law,chapter 19,

.3; 1 Phillips bn Insurance,

165, 30; Columbia Insurance Company v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 516.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. CHASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Chase, for he was called by the defence, and was the only
witness sworn on the trial. And why was the sum for which
each policy was given, inserted in the other, unless to show
that it was one and the same transaction ? If the insurance
to William Chase was not a part of the general plan of the
trustees to insure the church property, it is not easy to see
why the fact of such insurance is recited in the policies
issued by the other companies. On what ground, then, can
the Howard Company resist the payment of this demand?
William Chase swears he acted for the parish with the assent
of the trustees; confirmatory evidence is furnished by the
policies of insurance, and there is not a particle of countervailing testimony. Why the trustees, in insuring the church
for fifteen thousand dollars, allowed one policy to issue in
the name of William Chase, payable, in case of loss, to G.
M. Chase, is not disclosed by th6 record; but it is a fair inference, from the evidence, that it was designed, if the peril
insured against should occur, to appropriate the money to
the use of William Chase, and thus discharge in part the
indebtedness of the society to him; and that William Chase,
under the direction of the trustees, chose to have the money
paid to his creditor, furnishes no defence to the insurer.
As we have seen, William Chase, with the assent of the
trustees, could insure the trust title in his own name, and
whether the party appointed by him to receive the money,
after having recovered it, can retain'it to his own use, or
must pay it to the trustees, is wholly immaterial to the insurer. This depends on the private arrangement between
the trustees, William Chase and Grenville M. Chase, with
which the Howard Company has no concern.*
If the trust property was insured, and the benefit of the
insurance goes to the society, and there was no concealment
or unfair dealing which could avoid the risk, then the underwriter is concluded from any further inquiry. That there
could have been no undue concealment, is very evident, because Munger, the agent of the underwriter, was a co-trustee
King v. The State Mutual Fire Insurance Company, 7 Cushing, 7.

Dec. 1866.]

THE SIR

WILLIAM PEEL.

517

Syllabus.

with William Chase, and had equal knowledge with him of

the whole transaction.
The foregoing views dispose of this case, and it is unnecessary to refer in detail to the charge of the Circuit Court,
because it was in conformity to them.
The instructions asked by the insurance company were

properly refused. A portion of them were right in the abstract, -butwould have misled the jury, there being no evidence in the case applicable to them.

The rest were incon-

sistent with the law of the case as given in this opinion.
The judgment of the Circuit C(iurt is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

Mr. Justice MILLER dissented.

THE SIR WILLIAM PEEL.
1. Regularly, in cases of prize, no evidence is admissible on the first hearing, except that which comes from the ship, -either in the papers or the
testimony of persons found on board.
2. If upon this evidence the case is not sufficiently clear to warrant condemnation or restitution, opportunity is given by the court, either of
its own accord or upon motion and proper grounds shown, to introduce
additional evidence under an order for further proof.
3. If, preparatory to the first hearing, testimony was taken of persons not
in pny way connected with the ship, such evidence is properly excluded,
and the hearing takes place on the proper proofs.
4. If a ship or cargo is enemy property, or either is otherwise liable to condemnation, the circumstance that the vessel at the time of capture was
in neutral waters, would not, by itself, avail the claimants in a prize
court. It might constitute a ground of claim by the neulral power,
whose tetritories had suffered trespass, for apology or indemnity. But
neither an enemy, nor a neutral acting the part of an enemy, can demand restitution of captured property on.the sole ground of capture in
neutral waters.
5. Where several witnesses stated'facts which tended to prove that a vessel
was in the employment of an enemy government; and that part, at
least, of her return cargo was in fact enemy property; while the statements of others made it probable that the vessel was in truth what she
professed to be, a merchant steamer, belonging to neutrals, and nothing

