OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Syllabus

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSOCIATION v. FEDERAL
TRADE COMMISSION
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 97-1625. Argued January 13, 1999-Decided May 24, 1999
Petitioner California Dental Association (CDA), a nonprofit association of
local dental societies to which about three-quarters of the State's dentists belong, provides desirable insurance and preferential financing arrangements for its members, and engages in lobbying, litigation, marketing, and public relations for members' benefit. Members agree to
abide by the CDA's Code of Ethics, which, inter alia, prohibits false
or misleading advertising. The CDA has issued interpretive advisory
opiniors and guidelines relating to advertising. Respondent Federal
Trade Commission brought a complaint, alleging that the CDA violated
§5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (Act), 15 U. S. C. §45, in applying its guidelines so as to restrict two types of truthful, nondeceptive
advertising- price advertising, particularly discounted fees, and advertising relating to the quality of dental services. An Administrative
Law Judge (ALJ) held the Commission to have jurisdiction over the
CDA and found a §5 violation. As relevant here, the Commission held
that the advertising restrictions violated the Act under an abbreviated
rule-of-reason analysis. In affirming, the Ninth Circuit sustained the
Commission's jurisdiction and concluded that an abbreviated or "quick
look" rule-of-reason analysis was proper in this case.
Held:
1. The Commission's jurisdiction extends to an association that, like
the CDA, provides substantial economic benefit to its for-profit members. The Act gives the Commission authority over a "corporatio[n],"
15 U. S. C. §45(a)(2), "organized to carry on business for its own profit
or that of its members," §44. The Commission's claim that the Act
gives it jurisdiction over nonprofit associations whose activities provide
substantial economic benefits to their for-profit members is clearly the
better reading of the Act, which does not require that a supporting
organization must devote itself entirely to its members' profits or say
anything about how much of the entity's activities must go to raising
the members' bottom lines. There is thus no apparent reason to let the
Act's application turn on meeting some threshold percentage of activity
for this purpose or even a softer formulation calling for a substantial
part of the entity's total activities to be aimed at its members' pecuniary

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Syllabus
benefit. The Act does not cover all membership organizations of
profit-making corporations without more. However, the economic benefits conferred upon CDA's profit-seeking professionals plainly fall
within the object of enhancing its members' "profit," which is the Act's
jurisdictional touchstone. The Act's logic and purpose comport with
this result, and its legislative history is not inconsistent with this interpretation. Pp. 765-769.
2. Where any anticompetitive effects of given restraints are far from
intuitively obvious, the rule of reason demands a more thorough enquiry
into the consequences of those restraints than the abbreviated analysis
the Ninth Circuit performed in this case. Pp. 769-781.
(a) An abbreviated or "quick-look" analysis is appropriate when an
observer with even a rudimentary understanding of economics could
conclude that the arrangements in question have an anticompetitive effect on customers and markets. See, e. g., National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S.85. This case
fails to present a situation in which the likelihood of anticompetitive
effects is comparably obvious, for the CDA's advertising restrictions
might plausibly be thought to have a net procompetitive effect or possibly no effect at all on competition. Pp. 769-771.
(b) The discount and nondiscount advertising restrictions are, on
their face, designed to avoid false or deceptive advertising in a market
characterized by striking disparities between the information available
to the professional and the patient. The existence of significant challenges to informed decisionmaking by the customer for professional
services suggests that advertising restrictions arguably protecting patients from misleading or irrelevant advertising call for more than cursory treatment. In applying cursory review, the Ninth Circuit brushed
over the professional context and described no anticompetitive effects
from the discount advertising bar. The CDA's price advertising rule
appears to reflect the prediction that any costs to competition associated
with eliminating across-the-board advertising will be outweighed by
gains to consumer information created by discount advertising that is
exact, accurate, and more easily verifiable. This view may or may not
be correct, but it is not implausible; and neither a court nor the Commission may initially dismiss it as presumptively wrong. The CDA's plausible explanation for its nonprice advertising restrictions, namely that
restricting unverifiable quality claims would have a procompetitive effect by preventing misleading or false claims that distort the market,
likewise rules out the Ninth Circuit's use of abbreviated rule-of-reason
analysis for those restrictions. The obvious anticompetitive effect that
triggers such analysis has not been shown. Pp. 771-778.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Syllabus
(c) Saying that the Ninth Circuit's conclusion required a more extended examination of the possible factual underpinnings than it received is not necessarily to call for the fullest market analysis. Not
every case attacking a restraint not obviously anticompetitive is a candidate for plenary market examination. There is generally no categorical
line between restraints giving rise to an intuitively obvious inference
of anticompetitive effect and those that call for more detailed treatment. What is required is an enquiry meet for the case, looking to
a restraints circumstances, details, and logic. Here, a less quick look
was required for the initial assessment of the CDA's advertising
restrictions. Pp. 779-781.
128 F. 3d 720, vacated and remanded.
SOUTER, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court with respect to
Parts I and II, and the opinion of the Court with respect to Part III, in
which REHNQUIST, C. J., and O'CONNOR, SCALA, and THOMAS, JJ., joined.
BREYER, J., filed an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in
which STEVENS, KENNEDY, and GINSBURG, JJ., joined, post, p. 781.

PeterM. Sfikas argued the cause for petitioner. With him
on the briefs were Scott M. Mendel, Erik F. Dyhrkopp, and
Edward M. Graham.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for
respondent. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Waxman, Assistant Attorney General Klein, Paul R. Q.
Wolfson, Debra A. Valentine, John F. Daly, Joanne L. Levine, and Elizabeth R. Hilder.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American
College for Advancement in Medicine by Elizabeth Toni Guarino, William C. MacLeod, and Robert A. Skitol; for the American Dental Association et al. by Jack R. Bierig and Virginia A Seitz; for the American
Society of Association Executives by Jerry A Jacobs, Paul M. Smith, and
Nory Miller; and for the National Collegiate Athletic Association by Roy
T Englert, Jr., Donald M. Falk, Gregory L. Curtner,Stephen M. Shapiro,
Michael W. McConnell, Michele L. Odorizzi, and Elsa Kircher Cole.
A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State of
Arizona et al. by James E. Ryan, Attorney General of Illinois, Don R.
Sampen, Assistant Attorney General, Betty D. Montgomery, Attorney
General of Ohio, and Thomas G. Lindgren, Assistant Attorney General,
and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows:
Grant Woods of Arizona, Winston Bryant of Arkansas, DanielE. Lungren

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE SOUTER delivered the opinion of the Court.

There are two issues in this case: whether the jurisdiction
of the Federal Trade Commission extends to the California
Dental Association (CDA), a nonprofit professional association, and whether a "quick look" sufficed to justify finding
that certain advertising restrictions adopted by the CDA violated the antitrust laws. We hold that the Commission's
jurisdiction under the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC
Act) extends to an association that, like the CDA, provides
substantial economic benefit to its for-profit members, but
that where, as here, any anticompetitive effects of given restraints are far from intuitively obvious, the rule of reason
demands a more thorough enquiry into the consequences of
those restraints than the Court of Appeals performed.
I
The CDA is a voluntary nonprofit association of local dental societies to which some 19,000 dentists belong, including
about three-quarters of those practicing in the State. In re
California Dental Assn., 121 F. T. C. 190, 196-197 (1996).
The CDA is exempt from federal income tax under 26
U. S. C. §501(c)(6), covering "[b]usiness leagues, chambers
of California, RichardBlumenthal of Connecticut, Al. Jane Brady of Delaware, Robert A Buttervorth of Florida, Alan G. Lance of Idaho, Thomas
J. Miller of Iowa, J. Joseph Curran,Jr., of Maryland, Frank J. Kelley of
Michigan, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Mike Moore of Mississippi, Frankie Sue Del Papa of Nevada, Philip T McLaughlin of New
Hampshire, Michael E Easley of North Carolina, W.A. Drew Edmondson
of Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, D. Michael Fisherof Pennsylvania,
Jose A Fuentes-Agostini of Puerto Rico, Jeffrey B. Pine of Rhode Island,
John Knox Walkup of Tennessee, Jan Graham of Utah, William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington, Darrell V McGraw,
Jr., of West Virginia, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin.
James S. Turner and Betsy E. Lehrfeld filed a brief for the Consumer
Dental Choice Project of the National Institute for Science, Law and
Public Policy, Inc., as amicus curiae.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

of commerce, real-estate boards, [and] boards of trade," although it has for-profit subsidiaries that give its members
advantageous access to various sorts of insurance, including
liability coverage, and to financing for their real estate,
equipment, cars, and patients' bills. The CDA lobbies and
litigates in its members' interests, and conducts marketing
and public relations campaigns for their benefit. 128 F. 3d
720, 723 (CA9 1997).
The dentists who belong to the CDA through these associations agree to abide by a Code of Ethics (Code) including
the following § 10:
"Although any dentist may advertise, no dentist shall
advertise or solicit patients in any form of communication in a manner that is false or misleading in any
material respect. In order to properly serve the public,
dentists should represent themselves in a manner that
ccntributes to the esteem of the public. Dentists should
not misrepresent their training and competence in any
way that would be false or misleading in any material
respect." App. 33.
The CDA has issued a number of advisory opinions interpreting this section,' and through separate advertising
I The

advisory opinions, which substantially mirror parts of the California Business and Professions Code, see Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. §§ 651,
1680 (West 1999), include the following propositions:
"A statement or claim is false or misleading in any material respect
when it:

"a. contains a misrepresentation of fact;
"b. is likely to mislead or deceive because in context it makes only a
partial disclosure of relevant facts;

"c. is intended or is likely to create false or unjustified expectations of

favorable results and/or costs;

"d. relates to fees for specific types of services without fully and specifically disclosing all variables and other relevant factors;

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of the Court

guidelines intended to help members comply with the Code
and with state law the CDA has advised its dentists of disclosures they must make
under state law when engaging in
2
discount advertising.
Responsibility for enforcing the Code rests in the first instance with the local dental societies, to which applicants for
CDA membership must submit copies of their own advertisements and those of their employers or referral services to
assure compliance with the Code. The local societies also
actively seek information about potential Code violations
by applicants or CDA members. Applicants who refuse to
withdraw or revise objectionable advertisements may be denied membership; and members who, after a hearing, remain
"e. contains other representations or implications that in reasonable
probability will cause an ordinarily prudent person to misunderstand or
be deceived.
"Any communication or advertisement which refers to the cost of dental
services shall be exact, without omissions, and shall make each service
clearly identifiable, without the use of such phrases as 'as low as,' 'and up,'
'lowest prices,' or words or phrases of similar import.
"Any advertisement which refers to the cost of dental services and uses
words of comparison or relativity-for example, 'low fees'-must be based
on verifiable data substantiating the comparison or statement of relativity.
The burden shall be on the dentist who advertises in such terms to establish the accuracy of the comparison or statement of relativity."
"Advertising claims as to the quality of services are not susceptible to
measurement or verification; accordingly, such claims are likely to be false
or misleading in any material respect." 128 F. 3d 720, 723-724 (CA9 1997)
(some internal quotation marks omitted).
2The disclosures include:
"1. The dollar amount of the nondiscounted fee for the service[.]
"2. Either the dollar amount of the discount fee or the percentage of
the discount for the specific service[.]
"3. The length of time that the discount will be offered[.J
"4. Verifiable fees[.]
"5. [The identity of] [sipecific groups who qualify for the discount or any
other terms and conditions or restrictions for qualifying for the discount."
Id., at 724.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC

Opinion of the Court

similarly recalcitrant are subject to censure, suspension, or
expulsion from the CDA. 128 F. 3d, at 724.
The Commission brought a complaint against the CDA, alleging that it applied its guidelines so as to restrict truthful,
nondeceptive advertising, and so violated § 5 of the FTC Act,
38 Stat. 717, 15 U. S. C. § 45.3 The complaint alleged that
the CDA had unreasonably restricted two types of advertising: price advertising, particularly discounted fees, and advertising relating to the quality of dental services. Complaint 7. An Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) held the
Commission to have jurisdiction over the CDA, which, the
ALJ noted, had itself "stated that a selection of its programs
and services has a potential value to members of between
$22,739 and $65,127," 121 F. T. C., at 207. He found that,
although there had been no proof that the CDA exerted
market power, no such proof was required to establish an
antitrust violation under In re Mass. Bd. of Registration in
Optometry, 110 F. T. C. 549 (1988), since the CDA had
unreasonably prevented members and potential members
from using truthful, nondeceptive advertising, all to the detriment of both dentists and consumers of dental services.
He accordingly found a violation of § 5 of the FTC Act. 121
F. T. C., at 272-273.
The Commission adopted the factual findings of the ALJ
except for his conclusion that the CDA lacked market power,
with which the Commission disagreed. The Commission
treated the CDA's restrictions on discount advertising as illegal per se. 128 F. 3d, at 725. In the alternative, the Commission held the price advertising (as well as the nonprice)
restrictions to be violations of the Sherman and FTC Acts
3

The FTC Act's prohibition of unfair competition and deceptive acts or
practices, 15 U. S. C. §45(a)(1), overlaps the scope of § 1 of the Sherman
Act, 15 U. S. C. § 1, aimed at prohibiting restraint of trade, FTC v. Indiana
Federationof Dentists,476 U. S. 447, 454-455 (1986), and the Commission
relied upon Sherman Act law in adjudicating this case, In re California
Dental Assn., 121 F. T. C. 190, 292, n. 5 (1996).

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

under an abbreviated rule-of-reason analysis. One Commissioner concurred separately, arguing that the Commission
should have applied the Mass. Bd. standard, not the per se
analysis, to the limitations on price advertising. Another
Commissioner dissented, finding the evidence insufficient to
show either that the restrictions had an anticompetitive effect under the rule of reason, or that the CDA had market
power. 128 F. 3d, at 725.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed, sustaining the Commission's assertion of jurisdiction over the
CDA and its ultimate conclusion on the merits. Id., at 730.
The court thought it error for the Commission to have applied per se analysis to the price advertising restrictions,
finding analysis under the rule of reason required for all the
restrictions. But the Court of Appeals went on to explain
that the Commission had properly
"applied an abbreviated, or 'quick look,' rule of reason
analysis designed for restraints that are not per se unlawful but are sufficiently anticompetitive on their face
that they do not require a full-blown rule of reason
inquiry. See [National Collegiate Athletic Assn. v.
Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85, 109110, and n. 39 (1984)] ('The essential point is that the
rule of reason can sometimes be applied in the twinkling
of an eye.' [Ibid. (citing P. Areeda, The "Rule of Reason" in Antitrust Analysis: General Issues 37-38 (Federal Judicial Center, June 1981) (parenthetical omitted)).] It allows the condemnation of a 'naked restraint'
on price or output without an 'elaborate industry analysis.' Id., at 109." Id., at 727.
The Court of Appeals thought truncated rule-of-reason
analysis to be in order for several reasons. As for the restrictions on discount advertising, they "amounted in practice to a fairly 'naked' restraint on price competition itself,"
ibid. The CDA's procompetitive justification, that the re-

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

strictions encouraged disclosure and prevented false and
misleading advertising, carried little weight because "it is
simply infeasible to disclose all of the information that is required," id., at 728, and "the record provides no evidence
that the rule has in fact led to increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing," ibid. As to nonprice advertising
restrictions, the court said that
"[t]hese restrictions are in effect a form of output limitation, as they restrict the supply of information about
individual dentists' services. See Areeda & Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 1505 at 693-94 (Supp. 1997)....
The restrictions may also affect output more directly, as
quality and comfort advertising may induce some customers to obtain nonemergency care when they might
not otherwise do so. . . .Under these circumstances,
we think that the restriction is a sufficiently naked restraint on output to justify quick look analysis." Ibid.
The Court of Appeals went on to hold that the Commission's findings with respect to the CDA's agreement and intent to restrain trade, as well as on the effect of the restrictions and the existence of market power, were all supported
by substantial evidence. Id., at 728-730. In dissent, Judge
Real took the position that the Commission's jurisdiction did
not cover the CDA as a nonprofit professional association
engaging in no commercial operations. Id., at 730. But
even assuming jurisdiction, he argued, full-bore rule-ofreason analysis was called for, since the disclosure requirements were not naked restraints and neither fixed prices nor
banned nondeceptive advertising. Id., at 730-731.
We granted certiorari to resolve conflicts among the
Circuits on the Commission's jurisdiction over a nonprofit
professional association 4 and the occasions for abbreviated
4

Conroare In re American Medical Assn., 94 F. T. C. 701, 983-984, aff'd,
638 F. 2d 443 (CA2 1980), aff'd by an equally divided Court, 455 U. S. 676
(1982) (per curiam), and FTC v. National Comm'n on Egg Nutrition, 517

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of the Court

rule-of-reason analysis. 5 524 U. S. 980 (1998). We now vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand.
II
The FTC Act gives the Commission authority over "persons, partnerships, or corporations," 15 U. S. C. §45(a)(2),
and defines "corporation" to include "any company ... or
association, incorporated or unincorporated, without shares
of capital or capital stock or certificates of interest, except
partnerships, which is organized to carry on business for its
own profit or that of its members," §44. Although the Circuits have not agreed on the precise extent of this definition,
see n. 4, supra,the Commission has long held that some circumstances give it jurisdiction over an entity that seeks no
profit for itself. While the Commission has claimed to have
jurisdiction over a nonprofit entity if a substantial part of its
total activities provides pecuniary benefits to its members,
see In re American Medical Assn., 94 F. T. C. 701, 983-984
(1980), respondent now advances the slightly different formulation that the Commission has jurisdiction "over anticompetitive practices by nonprofit associations whose activities provid[e] substantial economic benefits to their for-profit
members' businesses." Brief for Respondent 20.
Respondent urges deference to this interpretation of the
Commission's jurisdiction as reasonable. Id., at 25-26 (citing Chevron U.S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense
Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984), Mississippi Power &
Light Co. v. Mississippi ex rel. Moore, 487 U. S. 354, 380-382
F. 2d 485, 487-488 (CA7 1975), with Community Blood Bank v. FTC, 405
F. 2d 1011, 1017 (CA8 1969).
5 Cf. Bogan v. Hodgkins, 166 F. 3d 509, 514, and n. 6 (CA2 1999); United
States v. Brown University, 5 F. 3d 658, 669 (CA3 1993); Chicago Profes-

sional Sports Limited Partnership v. National Basketball Assn., 961
F. 2d 667, 674-676 (CA7 1992); Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,

134 F. 3d 1010, 1020 (CA10 1998); U. S. Healthcare,Inc. v. Healthsource,
Inc., 986 F. 2d 589, 594-595 (CA1 1993).

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

(1988) (SCALIA, J., concurring) (Chevron deference applies to
agency's interpretation of its own statutory jurisdiction)).
But we have no occasion to review the call for deference
here, the interpretation urged in respondent's brief being
clearly the better reading of the statute under ordinary principles of construction.
The FTC Act is at pains to include not only an entity "organized to carry on business for its own profit," 15 U. S. C.
§44, but also one that carries on business for the profit "of
its members," ibid. While such a supportive organization
may be devoted to helping its members in ways beyond immediate enhancement of profit, no one here has claimed that
such an entity must devote itself single-mindedly to the
profit of others. It could, indeed, hardly be supposed that
Congress intended such a restricted notion of covered supporting organizations, with the opportunity this would bring
with it for avoiding jurisdiction where the purposes of the
FTC Act would obviously call for asserting it.
Just as the FTC Act does not require that a supporting
organization must devote itself entirely to its members'
profits, neither does the Act say anything about how much
of the entity's activities must go to raising the members' bottom lines. There is accordingly no apparent reason to let
the statute's application turn on meeting some threshold percentage of activity for this purpose, or even satisfying a
softer formulation calling for a substantial part of the nonprofit entity's total activities to be aimed at its members'
pecuniary benefit. To be sure, proximate relation to lucre
must appear; the FTC Act does not cover all membership
organizations of profit-making corporations without more,
and an organization devoted solely to professional education
may lie outside the FTC Act's jurisdictional reach, even
though the quality of professional services ultimately affects
the profits of those who deliver them.
There is no line drawing exercise in this case, however,
where the CDA's contributions to the profits of its individual

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

members are proximate and apparent. Through for-profit
subsidiaries, the CDA provides advantageous insurance and
preferential financing arrangements for its members, and it
engages in lobbying, litigation, marketing, and public relations for the benefit of its members' interests. This congeries of activities confers far more than de minimis or merely
presumed economic benefits on CDA members; the economic
benefits conferred upon the CDA's profit-seeking professionals plainly fall within the object of enhancing its members'
"profit," 6 which the FTC Act makes the jurisdictional touch'This conclusion is consistent with holdings by a number of Courts of
Appeals. In FTC v. National Comm'n on Egg Nutrition, the Court of
Appeals held that a nonprofit association "organized for the profit of the
egg industry," 517 F. 2d, at 488, fell within the Commission's jurisdiction.
In American Medical Assn. v. FTC,638 F. 2d 443 (CA2 1980), the Court
of Appeals held that the "business aspects," id., at 448, of the AMA's activities brought it within the Commission's reach. These cases are consistent with our conclusion that an entity organized to carry on activities that
will confer greater than de minimis or presumed economic benefits on
profit-seeking members certainly falls within the Commission's jurisdiction. In Community Blood Bank v. FTC,the Couit of Appeals addressed
the question whether the Commission had jurisdiction over a blood bank
and an association of hospitals. It held that "the question of the jurisdiction over the corporations or other associations involved should be determined on an ad hoc basis," 405 F. 2d, at 1018, and that the Commission's
jurisdiction extended to "any legal entity without shares of capital which
engages in business for profit within the traditional meaning of that language," ibid. (emphasis deleted). The Court of Appeals also said that
"[alccording to a generally accepted definition 'profit' means gain from
business or investment over and above expenditures, or gain made on
business or investment where both receipts or payments are taken into
account," id., at 1017, although in the same breath it noted that the terms
"meaning must be derived from the context in which it is used," id., at
1016. Our decision here is fully consistent with Community Blood Bank,
because the CDA contributes to the profits of at least some of its members,
even on a restrictive definition of profit as gain above expenditures. (It
should go without saying that the FTC Act does not require for Commis.sion jurisdiction that members of an entity turn a profit on their membership, but only that the entity be organized to carry on business for members' profit.) Nonetheless, we do not, and indeed, on the facts here, could

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

stone. There is no difficulty in concluding that the Commission has jurisdiction over the CDA.
The logic and purpose of the FTC Act comport with this
result. The FTC Act directs the Commission to "prevent"
the broad set of entities under its jurisdiction "from using
unfair methods of competition in or affecting commerce and
unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce." 15 U. S. C. §45(a)(2). Nonprofit entities organized
on behalf of for-profit members have the same capacity and
derivatively, at least, the same incentives as for-profit organizations to engage in unfair methods of competition or unfair
and deceptive acts. It may even be possible that a nonprofit
entity up to no good would have certain advantages, not only
over a for-profit member but over a for-profit membership
organization as well; it would enjoy the screen of superficial
disinterest while devoting itself to serving the interests of
its members without concern for doing more than breaking
even.
Nor, contrary to petitioner's argument, is the legislative
history inconsistent with this interpretation of the Commission's jurisdiction. Although the versions of the FTC Act
first passed by the House and the Senate defined "corporation" to refer only to incorporated, joint stock, and sharecapital companies organized to carry on business for profit,
see H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 1142, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., 11, 14
(1914), the Conference Committee subsequently revised the
definition to its present form, an alteration that indicates an
not, decide today whether the Commission has jurisdiction over nonprofit
organizations that do not confer profit on for-profit members but do, for
example, show annual income surpluses, engage in significant commerce,
or compete in relevant markets with for-profit players. We therefore do
not foreclose the possibility that various paradigms of profit might fall
within the ambit of the FTC Act. Nor do we decide whether a purpose
of contributing to profit only in a presumed sense, as by enhancing professional educational efforts, would implicate the Commission's jurisdiction.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

intention to include nonprofit entities. 7 And the legislative
history, like the text of the FTC Act, is devoid of any hint at
an exemption for professional associations as such.
We therefore conclude that the Commission had jurisdiction to pursue the claim here, and turn to the question
whether the Court of Appeals devoted sufficient analysis to
sustain the claim that the advertising restrictions promulgated by the CDA violated the FTC Act.
III
The Court of Appeals treated as distinct questions the sufficiency of the analysis of anticompetitive effects and the
substantiality of the evidence supporting the Commission's
conclusions. Because we decide that the Court of Appeals
erred when it held as a matter of law that quick-look analysis
was appropriate (with the consequence that the Commission's abbreviated analysis and conclusion were sustainable),
we do not reach the question of the substantiality of the evidence supporting the Commission's conclusion."
In National CollegiateAthletic Assn. v. Board of Regents
of Univ. of Okla., 468 U. S. 85 (1984), we held that a "naked
restraint on price and output requires some competitive jus7

A letter from Bureau of Corporations Commissioner Joseph E. Davies
to Senator Francis G. Newlands, the bill's sponsor and a member of the
Conference Committee, written August 8, 1914, before the Conference
Committee revisions, included a memorandum dated August 7, 1914, that
expressed concern that the versions of the bill passed by the House and
the Senate would not extend jurisdiction to purportedly nonprofit organizations, which might "furnish convenient vehicles for common understandings looking to the limitation of output and the fixing of prices contrary
to law." Trade Commission Bill: Letter from the Commissioner of Corporations to the Chairman of the Senate Comm. on Interstate Commerce,
Transmitting Certain Suggestions Relative to the Bill (H. R. 15613) to
Create a Federal Trade Commission, 63d Cong., 2d Sess., 3 (1914).
'We leave to the Court of Appeals the question whether on remand it
can effectively assess the Commission's decision for substantial evidence
on the record, or whether it must remand to the Commission for a more
extensive rule-of-reason analysis on the basis of an enhanced record.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

tification even in the absence of a detailed market analysis."
Id., at 110. Elsewhere, we held that "no elaborate industry
analysis is required to demonstrate the anticompetitive character of" horizontal agreements among competitors to refuse
to discuss prices, National Soc. of Professional Engineers
v. United States, 435 U. S. 679, 692 (1978), or to withhold
a particular desired service, FTC v. Indiana Federationof
Dentists,476 U. S. 447, 459 (1986) (quoting National Soc. of
Professional Engineers, supra, at 692). In each of these
cases, which have formed the basis for what has come to be
called abbreviated or "quick-look" analysis under the rule
of reason, an observer with even a rudimentary understanding of economics could conclude that the arrangements in
question would have an anticompetitive effect on customers
and markets. In National Collegiate Athletic Assn., the
leagues television plan expressly limited output (the number
of games that could be televised) and fixed a minimum price.
468 U. S., at 99-100. In NationalSoc. of ProfessionalEngineers, the restraint was "an absolute ban on competitive bidding." 435 U. S., at 692. In Indiana Federation of Dentists, the restraint was "a horizontal agreement among the
participating dentists to withhold from their customers a
particular service that they desire." 476 U. S., at 459. As
in such cases, quick-look analysis carries the day when the
great likelihood of anticompetitive effects can easily be ascertained. See Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.,
134 F. 3d 1010, 1020 (CA10 1998) (explaining that quick-look
analysis applies "where a practice has obvious anticompetitive effects"); Chicago ProfessionalSports Limited Partnership v. National Basketball Assn., 961 F. 2d 667, 674-676
(CA7 1992) (finding quick-look analysis adequate after assessing and rejecting logic of proffered procompetitive justifications); cf. United States v. Brown University,5 F. 3d 658,
677-678 (CA3 1993) (finding full rule-of-reason analysis required where universities sought to provide financial aid to
needy students and noting by way of contrast that the agree-

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of the Court

ments in National Soc. of ProfessionalEngineers and Indiana Federation of Dentists "embodied a strong economic
self-interest of the parties to them").
The case before us, however, fails to present a situation in
which the likelihood of anticompetitive effects is comparably
obvious. Even on JUSTICE BREYER's view that bars on
truthful and verifiable price and quality advertising are
prima facie anticompetitive, see post, at 784-785 (opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part), and place the
burden of procompetitive justification on those who agree to
adopt them, the very issue at the threshold of this case is
whether professional price and quality advertising is sufficiently verifiable in theory and in fact to fall within such
a general rule. Ultimately our disagreement with JUSTICE
BREYER turns on our different responses to this issue.
Whereas he accepts, as the Ninth Circuit seems to have
done, that the restrictions here were like restrictions on advertisement of price and quality generally, see, e. g., post, at
785, 787, 790, it seems to us that the CDA's advertising restrictions might plausibly be thought to have a net procompetitive effect, or possibly no effect at all on competition.
The restrictions on both discount and nondiscount advertising are, at least on their face, designed to avoid false or deceptive advertising 9 in a market characterized by striking
disparities between the information available to the professional and the patient. 10 Cf. Carr & Mathewson, The Eco9That false or misleading advertising has an anticompetitive effect, as
that term is customarily used, has been long established.

Cf. FTC v. Al-

goma Lumber Co., 291 U. S. 67, 79-80 (1934) (finding a false advertisement
to be unfair competition).
'"The fact that a restraint operates upon a profession as distinguished
from a business is, of course, relevant in determining whether that particular restraint violates the Sherman Act. It would be unrealistic to view
the practice of professions as interchangeable with other business activities, and automatically to apply to the professions antitrust concepts which
originated in other areas. The public service aspect, and other features
of the professions, may require that a particular practice, which could

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

nomic3 of Law Firms: A Study in the Legal Organization of
the Firm, 33 J. Law & Econ. 307,309 (1990) (explaining that in
a market for complex professional services, "inherent asymmetry of knowledge about the product" arises because "professionals supplying the good are knowledgeable [whereas]
consumers demanding the good are uninformed"); Akerlof,
The Market for "Lemons": Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism, 84 Q. J. Econ. 488 (1970) (pointing out quality
problems in market characterized by asymmetrical information). In a market for professional services, in which advertising is relatively rare and the comparability of service
packages not easily established, the difficulty for customers
or potential competitors to get and verify information about
the price and availability of services magnifies the dangers to
competition associated with misleading advertising. What
is more, the quality of professional services tends to resist
either calibration or monitoring by individual patients or clients, partly because of the specialized knowledge required to
evaluate the services, and partly because of the difficulty in
determining whether, and the degree to which, an outcome
is attributable to the quality of services (like a poor job of
tooth filling) or to something else (like a very tough walnut).
See Leland, Quacks, Lemons, and Licensing: A Theory of
Minimum Quality Standards, 87 J. Pol. Econ. 1328,1330 (1979);
1 B. Furrow, T. Greaney, S. Johnson, T. Jost, & R. Schwartz,
Health Law §3-1, p. 86 (1995) (describing the common view
that "the lay public is incapable of adequately evaluating the
quality of medical services"). Patients' attachments to particular professionals, the rationality of which is difficult to
assess, complicate the picture even further. Cf. Evans, Professionals and the Production Function: Can Competition
Policy Improve Efficiency in the Licensed Professions?, in
Occupational Licensure and Regulation 235-236 (S. Rottenproperly be viewed as a violation of the Sherman Act in another context,
be treated differently." Goldfarb v. Virginia State Bar, 421 U. S. 773,
788-789, n. 17 (1975).

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

berg ed. 1980) (describing long-term relationship between
professional and client not as "a series of spot contracts" but
rather as "a long-term agreement, often implicit, to deal with
each other in a set of future unspecified or incompletely specified circumstances according to certain rules," and adding
that "[it is not clear how or if these [implicit contracts] can
be reconciled with the promotion of effective price competition in individual spot markets for particular services").
The existence of such significant challenges to informed decisionmaking by the customer for professional services immediately suggests that advertising restrictions arguably protecting patients from misleading or irrelevant advertising
call for more than cursory treatment as obviously comparable to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or price
competition.
The explanation proffered by the Court of Appeals for
the likely anticompetitive effect of the CDA's restrictions on
discount advertising began with the unexceptionable statements that "price advertising is fundamental to price competition," 128 F. 3d, at 727, and that "[r]estrictions on the ability to advertise prices normally make it more difficult for
consumers to find a lower price and for dentists to compete
on the basis of price," ibid. (citing Bates v. State Bar of Ariz.,
433 U. S. 350, 364 (1977); Morales v. Trans World Airlines,
Inc., 504 U. S. 374, 388 (1992)). The court then acknowledged that, according to the CDA, the restrictions nonetheless furthered the "legitimate, indeed procompetitive, goal
of preventing false and misleading price advertising." 128
F. 3d, at 728. The Court of Appeals might, at this juncture,
have recognized that the restrictions at issue here are very
far from a total ban on price or discount advertising, and
might have considered the possibility that the particular restrictions on professional advertising could have different effects from those "normally" found in the commercial world,
even to the point of promoting competition by reducing the
occurrence of unverifiable and misleading across-the-board

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

discount advertising." Instead, the Court of Appeals confined itself to the brief assertion that the "CDA's disclosure
requirements appear to prohibit across-the-board discounts
because it is simply infeasible to disclose all of the information that is required," ibid., followed by the observation that
"the record provides no evidence that the rule has in fact led
to increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing,"
ibid.
But these observations brush over the professional context and describe no anticompetitive effects. Assuming that
the record in fact supports the conclusion that the CDA disclosure rules essentially bar advertisement of across-theboard discounts, it does not obviously follow that such a ban
would have a net anticompetitive effect here. Whether advertisements that announced discounts for, say, first-time
customers, would be less effective at conveying information
relevant to competition if they listed the original and discounted prices for checkups, X-rays, and fillings, than they
would be if they simply specified a percentage discount
across the board, seems to us a question susceptible to empirical but not a priori analysis. In a suspicious world, the
discipline of specific example may well be a necessary condition of plausibility for professional claims that for all practical purposes defy comparison shopping. It is also possible
in principle that, even if across-the-board discount advertisements were more effective in drawing customers in the short
run, the recurrence of some measure of intentional or accidental misstatement due to the breadth of their claims might
IJUSTICE BREYER claims that "the Court of Appeals did consider the
relevant differences." Post, at 790. But the language he cites says nothing more than that per se analysis is inappropriate here and that "some
caution" was appropriate where restrictions purported to restrict false
advertising, see 128 F. 3d, at 726-727.

Caution was of course appropriate,

but this statement by the Court of Appeals does not constitute a consideration of the possible differences between these and other advertising
restrietions.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of the Court

leak out over time to make potential patients skeptical of
any such across-the-board advertising, so undercutting the
method's effectiveness. Cf. Akerlof, 84 Q. J. Econ., at 495
(explaining that "dishonest dealings tend to drive honest
dealings out of the market"). It might be, too, that acrossthe-board discount advertisements would continue to attract
business indefinitely, but might work precisely because they
were misleading customers, and thus just because their effect would be anticompetitive, not procompetitive. Put another way, the CDA's rule appears to reflect the prediction
that any costs to competition associated with the elimination
of across-the-board advertising will be outweighed by gains
to consumer information (and hence competition) created by
discount advertising that is exact, accurate, and more easily
verifiable (at least by regulators). As a matter of economics
this view may or may not be correct, but it is not implausible,
and neither a court nor the 12Commission may initially dismiss
it as presumptively wrong.
In theory, it is true, the Court of Appeals neither ruled
out the plausibility of some procompetitive support for the
CDA's requirements nor foreclosed the utility of an evidentiary discussion on the point. The court indirectly acknowledged the plausibility of procompetitive justifications for the
12

JUsTICE BREYER suggests that our analysis is "of limited relevance,"

post, at 791, because "[t]he basic question is whether this ... theoretically
redeeming virtue in fact offsets the restrictions' anticompetitive effects in
this case," ibid. He thinks that the Commission and the Court of Appeals
"adequately answered that question," ibid., but the absence of any empirical evidence on this point indicates that the question was not answered,
merely avoided by implicit burden shifting of the kind accepted by JusTICE BREYER. The point is that before a theoretical claim of anticompetitive effects can justify shifting to a defendant the burden to show empirical evidence of procompetitive effects, as quick-look analysis in effect
requires, there must be some indication that the court making the decision
has properly identified the theoretical basis for the anticompetitive effects
and considered whether the effects actually are anticompetitive. Where,
as here, the circumstances of the restriction are somewhat complex, as-

sumption alone will not do.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

CDA's position when it stated that "the record provides no
evidence that the rule has in fact led to increased disclosure
and transparency of dental pricing," 128 F. 3d, at 728. But
because petitioner alone would have had the incentive to introduce such evidence, the statement sounds as though the
Court of Appeals may have thought it was justified without
further analysis to shift a burden to the CDA to adduce hard
evidence of the procompetitive nature of its policy; the
court's adversion to empirical evidence at the moment of
this implicit burden shifting underscores the leniency of its
enquiry into evidence of the restrictions' anticompetitive
effects.
The Court of Appeals was comparably tolerant in accepting the sufficiency of abbreviated rule-of-reason analysis as
to the nonprice advertising restrictions. The court began
with the argument that "[t]hese restrictions are in effect a
form of output limitation, as they restrict the supply of information about individual dentists' services." Ibid. (citing P.
Areeda & H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 1505, pp. 693-694
(1997 Supp.)). Although this sentence does indeed appear
as cited, it is puzzling, given that the relevant output for
antitrust purposes here is presumably not information or advertising, but dental services themselves. The question is
not whether the universe of possible advertisements has
been limited (as assuredly it has), but whether the limitation
on advertisements obviously tends to limit the total delivery
of dental services. The court came closest to addressing
this latter question when it went on to assert that limiting
advertisements regarding quality and safety "prevents dentists from fully describing the package of services they
offer," 128 F. 3d, at 728, adding that "It]he restrictions may
also affect output more directly, as quality and comfort advertising may induce some customers to obtain nonemergency care when they might not otherwise do so," ibid.
This suggestion about output is also puzzling. If quality advertising actually induces some patients to obtain more care

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

than they would in its absence, then restricting such advertising would reduce the demand for dental services, not the
supply; and it is of course the producers' supply of a good in
relation to demand that is normally relevant in determining
whether a producer-imposed output limitation has the anticompetitive effect of artificially raising prices, 13 see General
Leaseways, Inc. v. National Truck Leasing Assn., 744 F. 2d
588, 594-595 (CA7 1984) ("An agreement on output also
equates to a price-fixing agreement. If firms raise price, the
market's demand for their product will fall, so the amount
supplied will fall too-in other words, output will be restricted. If instead the firms restrict output directly, price
will as mentioned rise in order to limit demand to the reduced supply. Thus, with exceptions not relevant here, raising price, reducing output, and dividing markets have the
same anticompetitive effects").
Although the Court of Appeals acknowledged the CDA's
view that "claims about quality are inherently unverifiable
and therefore misleading," 128 F. 3d, at 728, it responded
that this concern "does not justify banning all quality claims
without regard to whether they are, in fact, false or misleading," ibid. As a result, the court said, "the restriction is a
sufficiently naked restraint on output to justify quick look
analysis." Ibid. The court assumed, in these words, that
some dental quality claims may escape justifiable censure,
because they are both verifiable and true. But its implicit
13

JUSTICE BREYER wonders if we "mea[n] this statement as an argument against the anticompetitive tendencies that flow from an agreement
not to advertise service quality." Post, at 791. But as the preceding sentence shows, we intend simply to question the logic of the Court of Appeals's suggestion that the restrictions are anticompetitive because they
somehow "affect output," 128 F. 3d, at 728, presumably with the intent to
raise prices by limiting supply while demand remains constant. We do
not mean to deny that an agreement not to advertise service quality might
have anticompetitive effects. We merely mean that, absent further analysis of the kind JUSTICE BREYER undertakes, it is not possible to conclude that the net effect of this particular restriction is anticompetitive.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC

Opinion of the Court

assumption fails to explain why it gave no weight to the
countervailing, and at least equally plausible, suggestion that
restricting difficult-to-verify claims about quality or patient
comfort would have a procompetitive effect by preventing
misleading or false claims that distort the market. It is, indeed, entirely possible to understand the CDA's restrictions
on unverifiable quality and comfort advertising as nothing
more than a procompetitive ban on puffery, cf. Bates, 433
U. S., at 366 (claims relating to the quality of legal services
"probably are not susceptible of precise measurement or
verification and, under some circumstances, might well be
deceptive or misleading to the public, or even false"); id.,
at 383-384 ("[A]dvertising claims as to the quality of services . . . are not susceptible of measurement or verifica-

tion; accordingly, such claims may be so likely to be misleading as to warrant restriction"), notwithstanding JUSTICE
BREYER'S citation (to a Commission discussion that never
faces the issue of the unverifiability of professional quality
claims, raised in Bates), post, at 785.14
The point is not that the CDA's restrictions necessarily
have the procompetitive effect claimed by the CDA; it is possible that banning quality claims might have no effect at all
on competitiveness if, for example, many dentists made very
much the same sort of claims. And it is also of course possible that the restrictions might in the final analysis be anticompetitive. The point, rather, is that the plausibility of
competing claims about the effects of the professional advertising restrictions rules out the indulgently abbreviated
review to which the Commission's order was treated. The
obvious anticompetitive effect that triggers abbreviated
analysis has not been shown.
14 The

Commission said only that "'mere puffing' deceives no one and

has never been subject to regulation." 121 F. T. C., at 318. The question
here, of course, is not whether puffery may be subject to governmental
regulation, but whether a professional organization may ban it.

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

In light of our focus on the adequacy of the Court of Appeals's analysis, JUSTICE BREYER'S thorough-going, de novo
antitrust analysis contains much to impress on its own merits
but little to demonstrate the sufficiency of the Court of Appeals's review. The obligation to give a more deliberate look
than a quick one does not arise at the door of this Court and
should not be satisfied here in the first instance. Had the
Court of Appeals engaged in a painstaking discussion in a
league with JUSTICE BREYER'S (compare his 14 pages with
the Ninth Circuit's 8), and had it confronted the comparability of these restrictions to bars on clearly verifiable advertising, its reasoning might have sufficed to justify its conclusion.
Certainly JUSTICE BREYER's treatment of the antitrust issues here is no "quick look." Lingering is more like it, and
indeed JUSTICE BREYER, not surprisingly, stops short of endorsing the Court of Appeals's discussion as adequate to the
task at hand.
Saying here that the Court of Appeals's conclusion at least
required a more extended examination of the possible factual
underpinnings than it received is not, of course, necessarily
to call for the fullest market analysis. Although we have
said that a challenge to a "naked restraint on price and output" need not be supported by "a detailed market analysis"
in order to "requir[e] some competitive justification," National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 468 U. S., at 110, it does not
follow that every case attacking a less obviously anticompetitive restraint (like this one) is a candidate for plenary market
examination. The truth is that our categories of analysis of
anticompetitive effect are less fixed than terms like "perse,"
"quick look," and "rule of reason" tend to make them appear.
We have recognized, for example, that "there is often no
bright line separating per se from Rule of Reason analysis,"
since "considerable inquiry into market conditions" may be
required before the application of any so-called "perse" condemnation is justified. Id., at 104, n. 26. "[Whether the
ultimate finding is the product of a presumption or actual

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of the Court

market analysis, the essential inquiry remains the samewhether or not the challenged restraint enhances competition." Id., at 104. Indeed, the scholar who enriched antitrust law with the metaphor of "the twinkling of an eye" for
the most condensed rule-of-reason analysis himself cautioned
against the risk of misleading even in speaking of a "spectrum" of adequate reasonableness analysis for passing upon
antitrust claims: "There is always something of a sliding
scale in appraising reasonableness, but the sliding scale formula deceptively suggests greater precision than we can
hope for. . . . Nevertheless, the quality of proof required
should vary with the circumstances." P. Areeda, Antitrust
Law 1507, p. 402 (1986). 15 At the same time, Professor
Areeda also emphasized the necessity, particularly great in
the quasi-common law realm of antitrust, that courts explain
the logic of their conclusions. "By exposing their reasoning,
judges . . .are subjected to others' critical analyses, which

in turn can lead to better understanding for the future."
Id., 1500, at 364. As the circumstances here demonstrate,
there is generally no categorical line to be drawn between
'5 Other commentators have expressed similar views. See, e. g., Kolasky, Counterpoint: The Department of Justice's "Stepwise" Approach
Imposes Too Heavy a Burden on Parties to Horizontal Agreements, Antitrust 41, 43 (spring 1998) ("[I]n applying the rule of reason, the courts, as
with any balancing test, use a sliding scale to determine how much proof
to require"); Piraino, Making Sense of the Rule of Reason: A New Standard for Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 47 Vand. L. Rev. 1753, 1771 (1994)
("[C]ourts will have to undertake varying degrees of inquiry depending
upon the type of restraint at issue. The legality of certain restraints will
be easy to determine because their competitive effects are obvious.
Other restrictions will require a more detailed analysis because their competitive impact is more ambiguous"). But see Klein, A "Stepwise" Approach for Analyzing Horizontal Agreements Will Provide'a Much Needed
Structure for Antitrust Review, Antitrust 41, 42 (spring 1990) (examination of procompetitive justifications "is by no means a full scrutiny of the
proffered efficiency justification. It is, rather, a hard look at the justification to determine if it meets the defendant's burden of coming forward
with-but not establishing-a valid efficiency justification").

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of BREYER, J.

restraints that give rise to an intuitively obvious inference
of anticompetitive effect and those that call for more detailed
treatment. What is required, rather, is an enquiry meet for
the case, looking to the circumstances, details, and logic of a
restraint. The object is to see whether the experience of
the market has been so clear, or necessarily will be, that a
confident conclusion about the principal tendency of a restriction will follow from a quick (or at least quicker) look, in
place of a more sedulous one. And of course what we see
may vary over time, if rule-of-reason analyses in case after
case reach identical conclusions. For now, at least, a less
quick look was required for the initial assessment of the
tendency of these professional advertising restrictions. Because the Court of Appeals did not scrutinize the assumption
of relative anticompetitive tendencies, we vacate the judgment and remand the case for a fuller consideration of the
issue.
It is so ordered.
with whom JUSTICE STEVENS, JUSTICE
GINSBURG join, concurring in part
and
JUSTICE
KENNEDY,
and dissenting in part.
I agree with the Court that the Federal Trade Commission
(FTC or Commission) has jurisdiction over petitioner, and
JUSTICE BREYER,

I join Parts I and II of its opinion.

I also agree that in

a "rule of reason" antitrust case "the quality of proof required should vary with the circumstances," that "[w]hat is
required... is an enquiry meet for the case," and that the
object is a "confident conclusion about the principal tendency
of a restriction." Ante, at 780 and this page (internal quotation marks omitted). But I do not agree that the Court has
properly applied those unobjectionable principles here. In
my view, a traditional application of the rule of reason to
the facts as found by the Commission requires affirming the
Commission-just as the Court of Appeals did below.

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of BREYER, J.

I
The Commission's conclusion is lawful if its "factual findings," insofar as they are supported by "substantial evidence," "make out a violation of Sherman Act § 1." FTC
v. Indiana Federation of Dentists, 476 U. S. 447, 454-455
(1986). To determine whether that is so, I would not simply
ask whether the restraints at issue are anticompetitive overall. Rather, like the Court of Appeals (and the Commission), I would break that question down into four classical,
subsidiary antitrust questions: (1) What is the specific restraint at issue? (2) What are its likely anticompetitive effects? (3) Are there offsetting procompetitive justifications? (4) Do the parties have sufficient market power to
make -. difference?
A
The most important question is the first: What are the
specific restraints at issue? See, e. g., National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. v. Board of Regents of Univ. of Okla., 468
U. S. 85, 98-100 (1984) (NCAA); Broadcast Music, Inc. v.
Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 441 U. S. 1, 21-23
(1979). Those restraints do not include merely the agreement to which the California Dental Association's (Dental
Association or Association) ethical rule literally refers,
namely, a promise to refrain from advertising that is "'false
or misleading in any material respect."' Ante, at 760 (quoting California Dental Code of Ethics § 10 (1993), App. 33).
Instead, the Commission found a set of restraints arising
out of the way the Dental Association implemented this
innocent-sounding ethical rule in practice, through advisory opinions, guidelines, enforcement policies, and review of
membership applications. In re California Dental Assn.,
121 F. T. C. 190 (1996). As implemented, the ethical rule
reached beyond its nominal target, to prevent truthful and
nondeceptive advertising. In particular, the Commission
determined that the rule, in practice:

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of BREYER, J.

(1) "precluded advertising that characterized a dentist's
fees as being low, reasonable, or affordable," id., at 301;
(2) "precluded advertising.., of across the board discounts," ibid.; and
(3) "prohibit[ed] all quality claims," id., at 308.
Whether the Dental Association's basic rule as implemented actually restrained the truthful and nondeceptive advertising of low prices, across-the-board discounts, and quality service are questions of fact. The Administrative Law
Judge (ALJ)and the Commission may have found those
questions difficult ones. But both the ALJ and the Commission ultimately found against the Dental Association in
respect to these facts. And the question for us-whether
those agency findings are supported by substantial evidence,
see Indiana Federation,supra, at 454-455-is not difficult.
The Court of Appeals referred explicitly to some of the
evidence that it found adequate to support the Commission's
conclusions. It pointed out, for example, that the Dental
Association's "advisory opinions and guidelines indicate
that... descriptions of prices as 'reasonable' or 'low' do not
comply" with the Association's rule; that in "numerous cases"
the Association "advised members of objections to special
offers, senior citizen discounts, and new patient discounts,
apparently without regard to their truth"; and that one advisory opinion "expressly states that claims as to the quality
of services are inherently likely to be false or misleading,"
all "without any particular consideration of whether" such
statements were "true or false." 128 F. 3d 720, 729 (CA9
1997).
The Commission itself had before it far more evidence. It
referred to instances in which the Association, without regard for the truthfulness of the statements at issue, recommended denial of membership to dentists wishing to advertise, for example, "reasonable fees quoted in advance,"
"major savings," or "making teeth cleaning... inexpensive."

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of

BREYER,

J.

121 F. T. C., at 301. It referred to testimony that "acrossthe-board discount advertising in literal compliance with the
requirements 'would probably take two pages in the telephone book' and '[n]obody is going to really advertise in that
fashion."' Id., at 302. And it pointed to many instances in
which the Dental Association suppressed such advertising
claims as "we guarantee all dental work for 1 year," "latest
in cosmetic dentistry," and "gentle dentistry in a caring environment." Id., at 308-310.
I need not review the evidence further, for this Court has
said that "substantial evidence" is a matter for the courts of
appeals, and that it "will intervene only in what ought to be
the rare instance when the standard appears to have been
misapprehended or grossly misapplied." Universal Camera
Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U. S. 474, 490-491 (1951). I have said
enough to make clear that this is not a case warranting our
intervention. Consequently, we must decide only the basic
legal question whether the three restraints described above
unreasonably restrict competition.
B
Do each of the three restrictions mentioned have "the potential for genuine adverse effects on competition"? Indiana Federation,476 U. S., at 460; 7 P. Areeda, Antitrust Law
1503a, pp. 372-377 (1986) (hereinafter Areeda). I should
have thought that the anticompetitive tendencies of the three
restrictions were obvious. An agreement not to advertise
that a fee is reasonable, that service is inexpensive, or that
a customer will receive a discount makes it more difficult for
a dentist to inform customers that he charges a lower price.
If the customer does not know about a lower price, he will
find it more difficult to buy lower price service. That fact,
in turn, makes it less likely that a dentist will obtain more
customers by offering lower prices. And that likelihood
means that dentists will prove less likely to offer lower
prices. But why should I have to spell out the obvious? To

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)
Opinion of BREYER, J.

restrain truthful advertising about lower prices is likely to
restrict competition in respect to price-"the central nervous system of the economy." United States v. SoconyVacuum Oil Co., 310 U.S. 150, 226, n. 59 (1940); cf., e.g.,
Bates v. State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 364 (1977) (price
advertising plays an "indispensable role in the allocation of
resources in a free enterprise system"); Virginia Bd. of
Pharmacyv. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425
U. S. 748, 765 (1976). The Commission thought this fact sufficient to hold (in the alternative) that the price advertising
restrictions were unlawful per se. See 121 F. T. C., at 307;
cf. Socony-Vacuum, supra, at 222-228 (finding agreement
among competitors to buy "spot-market oil" unlawful per se
because of its tendency to restrict price competition). For
present purposes, I need not decide whether the Commission
was right in applying a per se rule. I need only assume a
rule of reason applies, and note the serious anticompetitive
tendencies of the price advertising restraints.
The restrictions on the advertising of service quality also
have serious anticompetitive tendencies. This is not a case
of "mere puffing," as the FTC recognized. See 121 F. T. C.,
at 317-318; cf. ante, at 778. The days of my youth, when the
billboards near Emeryville, California, home of AAA baseball's Oakland Oaks, displayed the name of "Painless" Parker,
Dentist, are long gone-along with the Oakland Oaks. But
some parents may still want to know that a particular dentist
makes a point of "gentle care." Others may want to know
about 1-year dental work guarantees. To restrict that kind
of service quality advertisement is to restrict competition
over the quality of service itself, for, unless consumers know,
they may not purchase, and dentists may not compete to supply that which will make little difference to the demand for
their services. That, at any rate, is the theory of the Sherman Act. And it is rather late in the day for anyone to deny
the significant anticompetitive tendencies of an agreement
that restricts competition in any legitimate respect, see, e. g.,

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of BREYER, J.

ParamountFamous Lasky Corp. v. United States, 282 U. S.
30, 43 (1930); United States v. First Nat. Pictures,Inc., 282
U. S. 44, 54-55 (1930), let alone one that inhibits customers
from learning about the quality of a dentist's service.
Nor did the Commission rely solely on the unobjectionable
proposition that a restriction on the ability of dentists to advertise on quality is likely to limit their incentive to compete
on quality. Rather, the Commission pointed to record
evidence affirmatively establishing that quality-based competition is important to dental consumers in California. 121
F. T. C., at 309-311. Unsurprisingly, these consumers
choose dental services based at least in part on "information
about the type and quality of service." Id., at 249. Similarly, as the Commission noted, the ALJ credited testimony
to the effect that "advertising the comfort of services will
'absolutely' bring in more patients," and, conversely, that restraining the ability to advertise based on quality would decrease the number of patients that a dentist could attract.
Id., at 3.10. Finally, the Commission looked to the testimony
of dentists who themselves had suffered adverse effects on
their business when forced by petitioner to discontinue advertising quality of care. See id., at 310-311.
The FTC found that the price advertising restrictions
amounted to a "naked attempt to eliminate price competition." Id., at 300. It found that the service quality advertising restrictions "deprive consumers of information they
value and of healthy competition for their patronage." Id.,
at 311. It added that the "anticompetitive nature of these
restrictions" was "plain." Ibid. The Court of Appeals
agreed. I do not believe it possible to deny the anticompetitive tendencies I have mentioned.
C
We must also ask whether, despite their anticompetitive
tendencies, these restrictions might be justified by other procompetitive tendencies or redeeming virtues. See 7 Areeda,

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of BREYER, J.

11504, at 377-383. This is a closer question-at least in theory. The Dental Association argues that the three relevant
restrictions are inextricably tied to a legitimate Association
effort to restrict false or misleading advertising. The Association, the argument goes, had to prevent dentists from engaging in the kind of truthful, nondeceptive advertising that
it banned in order effectively to stop dentists from making
unverifiable claims about price or service quality, which
claims would mislead the consumer.
The problem with this or any similar argument is an empirical one. Notwithstanding its theoretical plausibility, the
record does not bear out such a claim. The Commission,
which is expert in the area of false and misleading advertising, was uncertain whether petitioner had even made the
claim. It characterized petitioner's efficiencies argument as
rooted in the (unproved) factual assertion that its ethical rule
"challenges only advertising that is false or misleading."
121 F. T. C., at 316 (emphasis added). Regardless, the Court
of Appeals wrote, in respect to the price restrictions, that
"the record provides no evidence that the rule has in fact led
to increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing."
128 F. 3d, at 728. With respect to quality advertising, the
Commission stressed that the Association "offered no convincing argument, let alone evidence, that consumers of dental services have been, or are likely to be, harmed by the
broad categories of advertising it restricts." 121 F. T. C., at
319. Nor did the Court of Appeals think that the Association's unsubstantiated contention that "claims about quality
are inherently unverifiable and therefore misleading" could
"justify banning all quality claims without regard to whether
they are, in fact, false or misleading." 128 F. 3d, at 728.
With one exception, my own review of the record reveals
no significant evidentiary support for the proposition that
the Association's members must agree to ban truthful price
and quality advertising in order to stop untruthful claims.
The one exception is the obvious fact that one can stop un-

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of BREYER, J.

truthful advertising if one prohibits all advertising. But
since the Association made virtually no effort to sift the false
from the true, see 121 F. T. C., at 316-317, that fact does not
make out a valid antitrust defense. See NCAA, 468 U. S.,
at 119; 7 Areeda, 1505, at 383-384.
In the usual Sherman Act § 1 case, the defendant bears the
burden of establishing a procompetitive justification. See
National Soc. of ProfessionalEngineers v. United States,
435 U.S. 679, 695 (1978); 7 Areeda, 1507b, at 397; 11 H.
Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 1914c, pp. 313-315 (1998); see
also Law v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., 134 F. 3d
1010, 1019 (CA10), cert. denied, 525 U. S. 822 (1998); United
States v. Brown Univ., 5 F. 3d 658, 669 (CA3 1993); Capital
Imaging Associates v. Mohawk Valley Medical Associates,
Inc., 996 F. 2d 537, 543 (CA2), cert. denied, 510 U. S. 947
(1993); Kreuzer v. American Academy of Periodontology,
735 F. 2d 1479, 1492-1495 (CADC 1984). And the Court of
Appeals was correct when it concluded that no such justification had been established here.
D
I shall assume that the Commission must prove one additional circumstance, namely, that the Association's restraints
would likely have made a real difference in the marketplace.
See 7 Areeda, 1503, at 376-377. The Commission, disagreeing with the ALJ on this single point, found that the
Association did possess enough market power to make a
difference. In at least one region of California, the midpeninsula, its members accounted for more than 90% of the
marketplace; on average they accounted for 75%. See 121
F. T. C., at 314. In addition, entry by newdentists into
the marketplace is fairly difficult. Dental education is expensive (leaving graduates of dental school with $50,000$100,000 of debt), as is opening a new dentistry office (which
costs $75,000-$100,000). Id., at 315-316. And Dental Association members believe membership in the Association is

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of BREYER, J.

important and valuable and recognized as such by the public.
Id., at 312-313, 315-316.
These facts, in the Court of Appeals' view, were sufficient
to show "enough market power to harm competition through
[the Association's] standard setting in the area of advertising." 128 F. 3d, at 730. And that conclusion is correct.
Restrictions on advertising price discounts in Palo Alto may
make a difference because potential patients may not respond readily to discount advertising by the handful (10%)
of dentists who are not members of the Association. And
that fact, in turn, means that the remaining 90% will prove
less likely to engage in price competition. Facts such as
these have previously led this Court to find market powerunless the defendant has overcome the showing with strong
contrary evidence. See, e. g., Indiana Federation,476 U. S.,
at 456-457; cf. United States v. Loew's Inc., 371 U. S. 38,
45 (1962); Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 294,
341-344 (1962); accord, United States v. Aluminum Co. of
America, 148 F. 2d 416, 424 (CA2 1945). I can find no reason
for departing from that precedent here.
II
In the Court's view, the legal analysis conducted by the
Court of Appeals was insufficient, and the Court remands
the case for a more thorough application of the rule of reason.
But in what way did the Court of Appeals fail? I find the
Court's answers to this question unsatisfactory-when one
divides the overall Sherman Act question into its traditional
component parts and adheres to traditional judicial practice
for allocating the burdens of persuasion in an antitrust case.
Did the Court of Appeals misconceive the anticompetitive
tendencies of the restrictions? After all, the object of the
rule of reason is to separate those restraints that "may suppress or even destroy competition" from those that "merely
regulat[e] and perhaps thereby promot[e] competition."
Board of Trade of Chicago v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of BREYER, J.

238 (1918). The majority says that the Association's "advertising restrictions might plausibly be thought to have a net
procompetitive effect, or possibly no effect at all on competition." Ante, at 771. It adds that
"advertising restrictions arguably protecting patients
from misleading or irrelevant advertising call for more
than cursory treatment as obviously comparable to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or price competition." Ante, at 773.
And it criticizes the Court of Appeals for failing to recognize
that "the restrictions at issue here are very far from a total
ban on price or discount advertising" and that "the particular restrictions on professional advertising could have different effects from those 'normally' found in the commercial
world, even to the point of promoting competition ....
Ibid.
The problem with these statements is that the Court of
Appeals did consider the relevant differences. It rejected
the legal "treatment" customarily applied "to classic horizontal agreements to limit output or price competition"-i. e.,
the FTC's (alternative) per se approach. See 128 F. 3d, at
726-727. It did so because the Association's "policies do not,
on their face, ban truthful nondeceptive ads"; instead, they
"have been enforced in a way that restricts truthful advertising," id., at 727. It added that "[t]he value of restricting
false advertising.., counsels some caution in attacking rules
that purport to do so but merely sweep too broadly." Ibid.
Did the Court of Appeals misunderstand the nature of an
anticompetitive effect? The Court says:
"If quality advertising actually induces some patients to
obtain more care than they would in its absence, then
restricting such advertising would reduce the demand
for dental services, not the supply; and ... the producers' supply . . . is normally relevant in determining

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of BREYER, J.

whether a ...limitation has the anticompetitive effect
of artificially raising prices." Ante, at 776-777.
But if the Court means this statement as an argument
against the anticompetitive tendencies that flow from an
agreement not to advertise service quality, I believe it is the
majority, and not the Court of Appeals, that is mistaken.
An agreement not to advertise, say, "gentle care" is anticompetitive because it imposes an artificial barrier against each
dentist's independent decision to advertise gentle care.
That barrier, in turn, tends to inhibit those dentists who
want to supply gentle care from getting together with those
customers who want to buy gentle care. See P. Areeda &
H. Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 1505', p. 404 (Supp. 1998).
There is adequate reason to believe that tendency present in
this case. See supra, at 786.
Did the Court of Appeals inadequately consider possible
procompetitive justifications? The Court seems to think so,
for it says:
"[TIhe [Association's] rule appears to reflect the prediction that any costs to competition associated with the
elimination of across-the-board advertising will be outweighed by gains to consumer information (and hence
competition) created by discount advertising that is
exact, accurate, and more easily verifiable (at least by
regulators)." Ante, at 775.
That may or may not be an accurate assessment of the Association's motives in adopting its rule, but it is of limited relevance. Cf. Board of Trade of Chicago, supra, at 238. The
basic question is whether this, or some other, theoretically
redeeming virtue in fact offsets the restrictions' anticompetitive effects in this case. Both court and Commission
adequately answered that question.
The Commission found that the defendant did not make
the necessary showing that a redeeming virtue existed in
practice. See 121 F. T. C., at 319-320. The Court of Ap-

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of

BREYER, J.

peals, asking whether the rules, as enforced, "augment[ed]
competition and increase[d] market efficiency," found the
Commission's conclusion supported by substantial evidence.
128 F. 3d, at 728. That is why the court said that "the
record provides no evidence that the rule has in fact led to
increased disclosure and transparency of dental pricing"-which is to say that the record provides no evidence that the
effects, though anticompetitive, are nonetheless redeemed or
justified. Ibid.
The majority correctly points out that "petitioner alone
would have had the incentive to introduce such evidence" of
procompetitive justification. Ante, at 776. (Indeed, that is
one of the reasons defendants normally bear the burden of
persuasion about redeeming virtues. See supra, at 788.)
But despite this incentive, petitioner's brief in this Court
offers nothing concrete to counter the Commission's conclusion that the record does not support the claim of justification. Petitioner's failure to produce such evidence itself
"explain[s] why [the lower court] gave no weight to the ...

suggestion that restricting difficult-to-verify claims about
quality or patient comfort would have a procompetitive effect by preventing misleading or false claims that distort the
market." Ante, at 778.
With respect to the restraint on advertising across-theboard discounts, the majority summarizes its concerns as follows: "Assuming that the record in fact supports the conclusion that the [Association's] disclosure rules essentially bar
advertisement of [such] discounts, it does not obviously follow that such a ban would have a net anticompetitive effect
here." Ante, at 774. I accept, rather than assume, the
premise: The FTC found that the disclosure rules did bar
advertisement of across-the-board discounts, and that finding
is supported by substantial evidence. See supra, at 783784. And I accept as literally true the conclusion that the
Court says follows from that premise, namely, that "net anticompetitive effects" do not "obviously" follow from that

Cite as: 526 U. S. 756 (1999)

Opinion of

BREYER, J.

premise. But obviousness is not the point. With respect
to any of the three restraints found by the Commission,
whether "net anticompetitive effects" follow is a matter of
how the Commission, and, here, the Court of Appeals, have
answered the questions I laid out at the beginning. See
supra, at 782. Has the Commission shown that the restriction has anticompetitive tendencies? It has. Has the Association nonetheless shown offsetting virtues? It has not.
Has the Commission shown market power sufficient for it
to believe that the restrictions will likely make a real world
difference? It has.
The upshot, in my view, is that the Court of Appeals,
applying ordinary antitrust principles, reached an unexceptional conclusion. It is the same legal conclusion that this
Court itself reached in Indiana Federation-amuch closer
case than this one. There the Court found that an agreement by dentists not to submit dental X rays to insurers
violated the rule of reason. The anticompetitive tendency
of that agreement was to reduce competition among dentists
in respect to their willingness to submit X rays to insurers,
see 476 U. S., at 456-a matter in respect to which consumers
are relatively indifferent, as compared to advertising of price
discounts and service quality, the matters at issue here.
The redeeming virtue in IndianaFederationwas the alleged
undesirability of having insurers consider a range of matters
when deciding whether treatment was justified-a virtue no
less plausible, and no less proved, than the virtue offered
here. See id., at 462-464. The "power" of the dentists to
enforce their agreement was no greater than that at issue
here (control of 75% to 90% of the relevant markets). See
id., at 460. It is difficult to see how the two cases can be
reconciled.
I would note that the form of analysis I have followed is
not rigid; it admits of some variation according to the circumstances. The important point, however, is that its allocation

CALIFORNIA DENTAL ASSN. v. FTC
Opinion of BREYER, J.

of the burdens of persuasion reflects a gradual evolution
within the courts over a period of many years. That evolution represents an effort carefully to blend the procompetitive objectives of the law of antitrust with administrative
necessity. It represents a considerable advance, both from
the days when the Commission had to present and/or refute
every possible fact and theory, and from antitrust theories
so abbreviated as to prevent proper analysis. The former
prevented cases from ever reaching a conclusion, cf. Bok,
Section 7 of the Clayton Act and the Merging of Law and
Economics, 74 Harv. L. Rev. 226, 266 (1960), and the latter
called forth the criticism that the "Government always
wins," United States v. Von's Grocery Co., 384 U. S. 270, 301
(1966) (Stewart, J., dissenting). I hope that this case does
not represent an abandonment of that basic, and important,
form of analysis.
For these reasons, I respectfully dissent from Part III of
the Court's opinion.

