OCTOBER TERM, 1998
Per Curiam

CROSS v. PELICAN BAY STATE PRISON ET AL.
ON MOTION FOR LEAVE TO PROCEED IN FORMA PAUPERIS
No. 98-8486.

Decided May 24, 1999*

Pro se petitioner seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis on these
certiorari petitions. The instant petitions bring his total number of
frivolous filings to 12, and he has 4 additional filings pending before
this Court.
Held: Petitioner's motion to proceed informa pauperisis denied.

He is

barred from filing any further certiorari petitions in noncriminal cases
unless he first pays the docketing fee and submits his petition in compliance with this Court's Rule 33.1. See Martin v. District of Columbia
Court of Appeals, 506 U.S. 1.
Motions denied.
PER CURIAM.

Pro se petitioner Cross seeks leave to proceed in forma
pauperis under Rule 39 of this Court. We deny these requests as frivolous pursuant to Rule 39.8. Cross is allowed
until June 14, 1999, within which to pay the docketing fees
required by Rule 38 and to submit his petitions in compliance
with this Court's Rule 33.1. We also direct the Clerk not
to accept any further petitions for certiorari from Cross in
noncriminal matters unless he first pays the docketing fee
required by Rule 38 and submits his petitions in compliance
with Rule 33.1.
Cross has repeatedly abused this Court's certiorari process. On March 8, 1999, we invoked Rule 39.8 to deny Cross
in forma pauperis status with respect to four petitions for
certiorari. See Cross v. Pelican Bay State Prison, post,
p. 1003 (three cases); Cross v. Cambra,post, p. 1003. Before
that time, Cross had filed six petitions for certiorari, all of
which were both patently frivolous and had been denied
*Together with No. 98-8487, Cross v. Wieking, Clerk, United States
District Courtfor the NorthernDistrict of California,also on motion for

leave to proceed informa pauperis.

CROSS v. PELICAN BAY STATE PRISON
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

without recorded dissent. The 2 instant petitions bring
Cross' total number of frivolous filings to 12, and he has 4
additional filings-all of them patently frivolous-pending
before this Court.
We enter the order barring prospective filings for the reasons discussed in Martin v. District of Columbia Court qf
Appeals, 506 U. S. 1 (1992) (per curiam). Cross' abuse of
the writ of certiorari has been in noncriminal cases, and we
limit our sanction accordingly. The order therefore will not
prevent Cross from petitioning to challenge criminal sanctions which might be imposed on him. Similarly, because
Cross has not abused this Court's extraordinary writs procedures, the order will not prevent him from fling nonfrivolous
petitions for extraordinary writs. The order will, however,
allow this Court to devote its limited resources to the claims
of petitioners who have not abused our certiorari process.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
As I have suggested in the past, the Court uses more of
its "limited resources" preparing, entering, and policing orders of this kind than it would by following a consistent policy of simply denying the many frivolous petitions that are
filed by a large number of litigants. See Martin v. District
of Columbia Court of Appeals, 506 U. S. 1, 4 (1992) (STEVENS, J., dissenting), and cases cited. I respectfully dissent.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

