NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
243

249

Syllabus.

The vessels Were placed in full repair by the mortgagee; to
the extent that they were repaired before the liens were
assigned, the lienors could have had no rights against the
government for the impairment of their security and they
transferred none by the assignments. There is no finding
which shows to what extent the repairs had been made at
the time of the assignments, although it appears that
some of them, at least, were then completed. The intervenor does not say and cannot, on these findings, that it
made the repairs to protect the security of the liens
rather than that of its own mortgages, which are subordinate to the claims of the government. Accordingly, there
is no basis in the findings for contending that the intervenor stands in any better position as the holder of the
construction liens than it does as mortgagee.
Reversed.
NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY CO. v. WALLACE, COMPTROLLER OF THE
TREASURY OF TENNESSEE, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF TENNESSEE.

No. 176: Argued December 12, 1932.1-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Whether an appeal to this Court from a judgment of a state court
in a proceeding under a state "declaratory judgments" law, presents a "case or controversy" within the jurisdiction of this COurt,
depends not upon the name or the form, but upon the nature and
substance, of the proceeding and the effect of the judgment upon
the rights asserted by the appellant. P. 260.

2. The Tennessee Declaratory Judgments Act, as construed by the
Supreme Court of the State, may be invoked only when the complainant asserts rights which are challenged by the defendant, and
presents for decision an actual controversy, to which he is a party,
capable of final adjudication by the judgment to be rendered; and
no judgment will be rendered when all the parties who will be
adversely affected by it are not before the court. In a suit under
the Act to secure a judicial determination that a tax levied against

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

the complainant, and about to be enforced by defendant state
officers, was invalid under the Federal Constitution; which, in substance, differed from the ordinary injunction suit only in the absence
of a prayer for an injunction and of an allegation of irreparable
injury,-Held that a judgment upholding the tax and affirming
dismissal of the bill on the merits, was reviewable by this Court.

Pp. 260-24.
3. While the ordinary course of judicial procedure results in a judgment requiring an award of process or execution to carry it into
effect, such relief is not an indispensable adjunct to the exercise
of the judicial function. P. 263.
4. The Constitution does not require that the case or controversy
should be presented by traditional forms of procedure, invoking
only traditional remedies; the judiciary clause defined and limited
judicial power, not the particular method by which that power
might be invoked. P. 264.
5. When the judicial power is invoked'to review judgments of state
courts, the ultimate constitutional purpose is protection of rights
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States;
changes by the States in the form or method by which federal rights
are brought to final adjudication in their courts do not preclude
review by this Court, so long as the case retains the essentials of
an adversary proceeding, involving a real, not a hypothetical,
controversy, which is, finally determined by the judgment below.
P. 264.
6. As the prayer for relief by injunction is not a necessary prerequisite to the exercise of judicial pdwer, allegations of threatened
irreparable injury, which are material only if an injunction is asked,
may likewise be dispensed with, if in other respects the tontroverey
is real and substantial. P. 264.
7. A railroad company brings gasoline into Tennessee, stores it in its
tanks, and withdraws and uses it as required as a source of motive
power for moving its interstate trains in that State and in others.
No ascertainable part of the gasoline when imported has a destination beyond the local storage tanks. Held:
(1) That, upon being unloaded .and stored, the gasoline ceases
to be a subject of interstate commerce, and loses its immunity as
such from state taxation. P. 265.
(2) A Tennessee "privilege tax" on the storage of gasoline
within the State and its withdrawal from storage for sale or use,
when applied to petitioner's, gasoline, is not a tax on the use of
the gasoline as an instrument of commerce, and burdens the fune-

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE. 251
249

Argument for Appellant.

tion of interstate commerce too indirectly and remotely to transgress constitutional limitations. P. 267.
8. The power to tax property-the sum of all the rights and powers
incident to ownership-necessarily includes the power to tax its
constituent parts. As the gasoline in storage could be taxed by
the State, as property, notwithstanding its prospective use as an
instrument of interstate commerce, the State can likewise tax the
successive exercise of two of the powers incident to its ownership, storage and withdrawal from storage, both completed before
interstate commerce begins. P. 268.
9. The constitutional power to levy taxes does not depend upon the
enjoyment by the taxpayer of any special benefit from the use of
the funds raised by taxation. P. 268.
10. The allegations of the bill showing a heavier state tax burden
upon railroads than upon common carriers by motor bus, fall
short of alleging a discrimination forbidden by the commerce
clause or by the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 268.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a decree dismissing a bill
challenging a Tennessee excise tax.
Mr. Fitzgerald Hall, with whom Mr. Frank Slemons
was on the brief, for appellant.
In this case a citizen and a taxpayer has been formally
called on by the proper public officials to pay taxes alleged
to be due now. The taxpayer denies liability. Suit is
brought to determine that liability. The question is not
an academic one; the amount involved is fixed and certain; the demand to pay has been made; and the question
at issue is whether payment is legally due. The taxpayer
filed a bill, and the public officials obliged by law to collect are made respondents. Process is served in the ordinary way. The court is asked to determine whether
the railway owes the tax actually claimed or not. And
the Tennessee Supreme Court decided that question.
The Tennessee Declaratory Judgments Act by its own
words provides for the determination of rights, and that
this may be done by a declaration either in the affirmative

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

288 U.S.

or neg,-tive. Further, that the judgment or decree will
terminate the controversy. Trials by jury may be had
under the Act, and issues of law and fact both are thus
finally determined.
The Tennessee Supreme Court has powers under the
Tennessee constitution fairly comparable in this respect
to the powers of this Court under the Federal Constitution. Muskrat v. United States, 219 U. S 346; In re
Cumberland Power Co., 147 Tenn. 504; Miller v. Miller,
149 Tenn. 463.
In construing this Declaratory Judgments Act, the Tennessee Supreme Court declines to merely give advice. It
will not take jurisdiction unless actual parties-and all of
them-are before the court, representing direct and adverse interests on actual, as distinguished from academic,
issues. There is no federal case like the one now presented of which this Court has declined to take jurisdiction. Hee is an actual and acute controversy.
Decisions of the Tennessee Supreme Court show the
diligence of that court in avoiding giving mere advisory
opinions. It requires, always, as in the instant case, an
actually present controversy, with all the proper adverse
parties before the court; and when decision is made it is
final and further proceedings are not necessary.
The railway's obligation to pay a specific sum, to-wit,
$13,381.23, as taxes, has been finally determined, unless
this Court gives it relief.
The Tennessee legislature, apparently thinking only of
filling stations, undertook to make those actually in the
gasoline business collect from the road-users and pay such
collections over to a special fund "to be used solely in
the construction and maintenance of a highway system in
the State," as privilege taxes. The road-user actually
pays, and knows and understands that he is so paying.
The trouble arose when it was found that some nonroad-users consumed large quantities of gasuline. Un-

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE. 253
249

Argument for Appellant.

fortunately the test case of Foster& Creighton v. Graham,
154 Tenn. 412, involved a road-user; and the statutory
charge was properly sustained, but on the wrong grounds.
Appellant railway has automobiles using the public
highways and pays, and should pay, compensation for
such use, as these statutes provide. But the railway
uses other gasoline on its own private property in railroad
operation. - This was a contingency which obviously the
legislative mind did not anticipate.
If these statutes are taken literally and construed to
mean exactly what they say, namely, that they impose
privilege taxes for the doing of a gasoline business, then
appellant railway may not consistently with the due
process and commerce clauses of the Federal Constitution
be taxed thereunder, as it is not engaged in the gasoline
business and can, under its'charter and the laws of Tennessee, engage in no business except that of operating a
railroad.
The operation of a railroad involves the doing of many
different things, all tending to the same end, namely, the
transportation of persons and property. A State can not,
under the due process and commerce clauses, reduce
" railroading" to its basic elements and claim that, because a railroad uses steel, water, lumber, gasoline and
coal, it is engaged in the steel business, the water business,
the lumber business, the gasoline business, and the coal
business; and, having made this artificial separation by
legislative fiat, it can not then impose a separate privilege tax-wholly distinct from the privilege of doing an
intrastate railroad business-on the doing of each of these
various things.
There is no sale in Tennessee of the gasoline here involved, and none of it is consumed on public property;
but all of it is used on privately owned railroad property
in railroad operation. While the railway does both an
interstate and intrastate business, there is no practicable

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument for Appellant.

288 U.S.

way so to separate the gasoline thus used. It is consumed in the same way as coal in the fire box of a locomotive or water in its boiler. As there are no local sales, as
the gasoline is not used in a local business, as it is not consumed on the public highways, to impose a tax on the use
of this gasoline-the amount of the so-called tax increasing as interstate business increases-results, practically,
in a direct burden on interstate commerce.
Forty per cent. of the gasoline stops only a few days
at the Nashville shops in Tennessee for inspection-then
moves out in interstate commerce for consumption in
Alabama, Georgia, and Kentucky. This gasoline never
comes to rest, in the technical sense, in Tennessee.
The charges imposed by these statutes are not general property taxes, nor taxes on local sales, nor on the
doing of a local business. They are nothing more or
less than compensation for the use of "special facilities"
furnished at great expense by the State. It is not due
process of law to force a citizen to pay compensation
(as distinguished from a tax) for something it does not
use.
To make a railroad (wholly separate from taxes
proper) thus help construct and maintain highways for
its competitors by motor vehicle-making those using
and those not using the highways pay on exactly the
same basis-is so palpably arbitrary as to lack due process of law, and so viciously discriminatory as to deny
it the equal protection of the laws; and is a burden on
interstate commerce.
Common carriers by railroad in Tennessee are subject to various taxes which together constitute one system. Common carriers by motor vehicle are subject to
various taxes; and these jointly constitute another system. It is entirely proper for the State thus to classify;
and it is not indispensable that the ultimate burden or
"economic weight " on common carriers by railroad and
common carriers by motor vehicle be exactly the same.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE. 255
249

Argument for Appellees.

But it is indispensable that the tax burden on these two
competing businesses be in their ultimate effect relatively the same. Yet, the system in Tennessee as applicable to railroads imposes a burden; everything considered, over four hundred per cent. greater than the
system applicable to common carriers by motor vehicle."
This is arbitrary action and indefensible discrimination
under the Fourteenth Amendment.
Messrs. W. F. Barry, Jr., and; Edwin F. Hunt, Assistant
Attorneys General of Tennessee, with whom Mr. R. H.
Beeler, Attorney General, was on the brief, for .,appellees.
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Tennessee recognized and treated the suit merely as one in which a declaratory judgment was sought and obtained. The only
relief sought from the Supreme Court of the United States
in this proceeding is a reversal of a declaratory judgment
rendered by the state courts. The effect of a consideration by this Court of the present case upon its merits will
be the rendition by it of a declaratory judgment.
This Court has declared that the federal judiciary has
no power to render a declaratory judgment. It has denied that the federal district courts have the power to
proceed under a state declaratory judgment statute. It
has said that the fact that a case is not a moot one, the
fact that a final judgment might be given, the fact that
there are adverse parties in interest, and the fact that the
plaintiff in error has a real and substantial interest in the
question, do not constitute a case or controversy within
the meaning of Art. III of the Constitution., All of these
elements the Supreme Court of Tennessee has said are
required before a suit brought under the state'Declaratory
Judgment Law will be entertained; but the-presence of
these elements does .not prevent the suit" from being
simply a declaratory proceeding. Indeed," the Supreme
Ccurt of Tennessee, in sustaining the validity of the
Declaratory Judgment Law, recognized thatits state con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Argument fir Appellees.

288 US.

stitution did not impose the same limitations upon the
jurisdiction of its courts as was imposed by the Federal
eonstitution upon the federal judiciary. Miller v. Miller,
149 Tenn. 484.
It is true that the declaratory judgment of the state
courts in this proceeding involved a federal question,
but this is merely another manner of saying that the
proceeding presents a case of which this Court would take
jurisdiction "if it were the subject of judicial cognizance"
by the federal courts. As this Court said in Postum
Cereal Co. v. CaliforniaFig Nut Co., 272 U. S. 673, even
if the effect of this conclusion were to leave the plaintiff
in error without any other remedy, "as to which we express no opinion, it can not furnish a reason for exceeding
the constitutional powers of this Court."
For the foregoing reasons, it is respectfully insisted
that the present proceeding is not a case or controversy
within the meaning of Art. III of the Federal Constitution, and that this Court is without jurisdiction.
The statutes in question impose a privilege tax upon
all persons storing gasoline in Tennessee and thereafter
withdrawing it from storage whether for sale or other use.
Foster & Creighton Co. v. Graham, 154 Tenn. 412, 420;
Quick Service Tire Co. v. Smith, 156 Tenn. 96, 102.
The construction of a state statute by the highest court
of the State is binding upon this court.
Under the constitution of Tennessee the Legislature has
unlimited power to tax privileges, which power may be
exercised in any manner, at its discretion.
A State has the power, unfettered by the commerce
clause, to impose a privilege tax upon the sale or storage
r'f gasoline which has reached its destination, has ceased
to move in interstate commerce and has been transferred
from the tank cars in which transported into a storage
warehouse. Of course, the tax imposed is valid only if it
does not discriminate against the gasoline as an article

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY, v. WALLACE. 257
249

Argument for Appellees.

coming from interstate commerce. Woodruff v. Parham,
8 Wall. 123; Hinson v. Lott, 8 Wall. 148; Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622; American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed,
192 U. S. 522; Sonneborn Bros. v. Keeling, 262 U. S. 506;
Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U. S. 499.
The fact that, at the time of the storage of the gasoline
and at the time of its withdrawal from storage, the owner
intends that the gasoline, or a portion of it, shall be used
in carrying on interstate commerce, does not affect the
right of the State to tax the storage and withdrawal. Coe
y. Erroll, 116 U. S. 517; Heisler v. Thomas Collieries Co.,
260 U. S. 245; Crescent Cotton Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257
U. S. 129; Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466; Oliver Iron
Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172; Hope Gas Co. v. Hall, 274 U. S.
284; N. J. Bell Tel. Co. v. State Board, 280 U. S. 338;
Eastern Air Transport v. Tax Comm'n, 285 U. S. 147;
Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472.
The statutes in question impose a privilege tax upon the
sale or storage of gasoline in Tennessee, and not a charge
for the use of the state highways. Pub. Acts, Tenn., 1927,
c. 54; id., 1931, c. 45; id., 2d Ex. Sess., 1931, c. 11; Kane v.
New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554;
Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 169; Interstate Transit
Co. v. Lindsey, 283 U. S. 183; Foster & Creighton Co. v.
Graham, 154 Tenn. 412.
Common carriers by railroad and common carriers by
motor vehicle constitute different classes of taxpayers,
which the State is not required to tax in the same manner or equally. The fact that the tax burden imposed
upon carriers by railroad may be greater than that imposed upon carriers by motor vehicle does not constitute
a violation of the due process clause or the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Dane v.
Jackson, 256 U. S. 289; Kelly'v. Pittsburgh,104 U. S. 78;
Green v. Frazier, 253 U. S. 233; Shaffer v. Carter, 252
U. S. 37; Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

132; Michigan Central R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 245;
Citizens Tel. Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322; Quong Wing
v. Kirkendall, 223 U. S. 59; St. Louis S. W. R. Co. v.
Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350; Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v.
Matthews, 174 U. S. 96; Lake Superior Lines v. Lord,
271 U. S. 575; Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Edwin M. Borchard and
Charles E. Clark, professors in the-Yale Law School, filed
as amici curiae, an elaborate brief dealing with the nature
and history of declaratory judgments, and sustaining the
jurisdiction to review the judgment in this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellant brought suit in the Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, under the Uniform Declaratory Judgments Act of that state,1 c. 29, Tennessee Public Acts, 1923, to secure a judicial declaration that a state
excise tax levied on the storage of gasoline,.c. 58, Tennessee Public Acts, 1923, as amended by c. 67, Tennessee
Public Acts, 1925, is, as applied to appellant, invalid under
the commerce clause and the Fourteenth Ameidment of
the Federal Constitution. A decree for appellees was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State, and the case
comes here on appeal under § 237 (a) of the Judicial
Code.
'The procedure authorized by this statute has been extensively
adopted both in this country and abroad. It is said that the Uniform Act is in force in 16 of the States and Porto Rico and that
similar statutes have been enacted in 13 States, Hawaii and the
Philippines. For a discussion of the history of this procedural device
in France, Germany, Spain, Spanish America, Scotland, England and
India, as well as in the United States, and the types of controversies
in which it has been invoked, see Edwin M. Borchard, The Declaratory Judgment-A Needed Procedural Reform, 28 Yale L. J. 1, 105;
Judicial Relief from Peril and Insecurity, 45 Harv. L. Rev. 793, 806;
The Constitutionality of Declaratory Judgments, 31 Columbia L.
Rev. 561.,

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
249

259

Opinion of the Court.

After the jurisdictional statement required by Rule 12
was submitted, this Court, in ordering the cause set down
for argument, invited the attention of counsel to the question " whether a case or controversy is presented in view
of thenature of the proceedings in the state court." This
preliminary question, which has been elaborately briefed
and argued, must first be considered, for the judicial power
with which this Court is invested by Art. 3, § 1 of the
Constitution, extends by Art. 3, § 2, only to "cases" and
"controversies "; if no "case " or " controversy" is presented for decision, we are without power to review the
decree of the court below. Muskrat v. United States, 219
U. S. 346.
In determining whether this litigation presents a case
within the appellate jurisdiction of this Court, we are
concerned, not with form, but with substance. See Fidelity National Bank v. Swope, 274 U. S.123; compare Gasoline Products Co. v. Champlin Refining Co., 283 U. S.494,
498. Hence, We look not to the label which the legislature
has attached to the procedure followed in the state courts,
or to the description of the judgment which is brought
here for review, in popular parlance, as. "declaratory,"
but to the nature of the proceeding which the statute
authorizes, and the effect of the judgment rendered upon
the rights which the appellant asserts.
Section 1 of the Tennessee Declaratory Judgments Act
confers jurisdiction on courts of record "to declare rights
. . .whether or not further relief is or could be claimed"
and provides that "no action or,proceeding shall be open
to objection on the ground that a declaratory judgment
or decree is prayed for. The declaration may be either
affirmative or negative in form and effect and such declaration shall have the force and effect of a final judgment
or decree." By § 2 it is provided that "any person . . .
whose rights, status or other legal relations are affected
by a statute .. . . may have determined any question of

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

construction or validity arising under the . . . statute
. . . and obtain a declaration of rights . . . thereunder."
Under § 6, the Court may refuse to render a declaratory
judgment where, if rendered, it "would not terminate
the uncertainty or controversy giving rise to the proceeding." Declaratory judgments may, in accordance with § 7,
be reviewed as are other orders, judgments or decrees, and
under § 8 "further relief based on a declaratory judgment
or decree may be granted whenever necessary or proper."
Section 11 requires that "when declaratory relief is
sought all persons shall be made parties who have or claim
any interest which would be affected by the declaration,
and no declaration shall prejudice the rights of persons
not parties to the proceeding."
This statute has often been considered by the highest
court of Tennessee, which has consistently held that its
provisions may only be invoked when the complainant
asserts rights which are challenged by the defendant, and
presents for decision an actual controversy to which he is
a party, capable of final adjudication by the judgment or
decree to be rendered. Miller v. Miller, 149 Tenn. 463;
261 S. W. 965; Goetz v. Smith, 152 Tenn. 451, 465; 278
S. W. 417; Hodges v. Hamblen County, 152 Tenn. 395;
277 S. W. 901; Cummings v. Shipp, 156 Tenn. 595; 3
S. W. (2d) 1062; Tennessee Eastern Electric Co. v. Hannah, 157 Tenn. 582, 587; 12 S. W. (2d) 372; Perry v.
Elizabethton, 160 Tenn. 102, 106; 22 S. W. (2d) 359;
Nashville Trust Co. v. Dake, 162 Tenn. 356, 359; 36 S. W.
(2d) 905. It has also held that no judgment or decree
will. be rendered when all the parties who will be adversely affected by it are not before the Court. Harrell
v. American Home Mortgage Co., 161 Tenn. 646; 32 S. W.
(2d) 1023; Sadler v. Mitchell, 162 Tenn. 363, 367; 36
S. W. (2d) 891.
Proceeding in accordance with this statute, appellant
filed its bill of complaint in the state Chancery Court,

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
249 ,

261

Opinion of the Court.

joining as defendants the appellees, the Attorney General
and the state officials charged with the duty of collecting
the gasoline privilege tax imposed by the Tennessee statute. The complaint alleged that appellant is engaged in
purchasing gasoline outside the state, which it stores
within the state pending its use within and without the
state.in the conduct of appellant's business as an interstate rail carrier; that appellees assert that the statute
taxes the privilege of storing gasoline within the state and
is applicable to appellant; that they have demanded payment of the tax in a specified amount and have determined
to enforce their demand and that, under the circumstances alleged, the statute as applied to appellant is invalid under the commerce clause and the Fourteenth
Amendment. The relief prayed was that the taxing act
be declared unconstitutional as applied to appellant. The
Chancery Court sustained the appellees' demurrer to the
sufficiency in law of the allegations relied on to establish
the unconstitutionality of the tax. Its final decree dismissing the bill on the merits has been affirmed by the
highest court of the state.
That the issues thus raised and judicially determined
would constitute a case or controversy if raised. and
decided in a suit brought by the taxpayer to enjoin collection of the tax cannot be questioned. See Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 378; compare Terrace
v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197; Pierce v. Society of Sisters,
268 U. S. 510; Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U. S.
365. The proceeding terminating in the decree below, unlike that in South Spring Hill Gold Mining Co. v. Amador
Medean Gold. Mining Co., 145 U. S. 300; Muskrat v.
United States, 219 U. S. 346, was between adverse parties,
seeking a determination of their legal rights upon the facts
alleged in the bill and admitted by the demurrer. Unlike
Fairchild v. Hughes, 258 U. S. 126; Texas v. Interstate
Commerce Commission, 258 U. S. 158; Massachusetts v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

Mellon, 262 U. S. 447; New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S.
328, valuable legal rights asserted by the complainant and
threatened with imminent invasion by appellees, will be
directly affected to a specific and substantial degree by
the decision of the question of law; and unlike Luther v.
Borden, 7 How. 1; Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649; Pacific
States Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223 U. S.
118; Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co., 261 U. S.
428; Federal Radio Commission v. General Electric Co.,
281 -U.S. 464, the question lends itself to judicial determination and is of the kind which this Court traditionally
decides. The relief sought is a definitive adjudication of
the disputed constitutional right of the appellant, in the
circumstances alleged, to be free from the tax, see Old
Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, 279 U. S. 716, 724;
and that adjudication is not, as in Gordon v. United
States, 2 Wall. 561, and Postum Cereal Co. v. California
Fig Nut Co., 272 U. S. 693, subject to revision by some
other and more authoritative agency. Obviously the appellant, whose duty to pay the tax will be determined
by the decision of this case, is not attempting to secure
an abstract determination by the Court of the validity
of a statute, compare Muskrat v. United States, supra,
361; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Commission, supra,
162; or a decision advising what the law would be on an
uncertain or hypothetical state of facts, as was thought
to be the case in Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, 273
U. S. 70, and Willing v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 277
U. S. 274; see also Warehouse Co. v. Tobacco Growers
Assn., 276 U. S. 71, 88; compare Arizona v. California,
283 U. S. 423, 463. Thus the narrow question presented
for determination is whether the controversy before us,
which would be justiciable in this Court if presented in a
suit for injunction, is any the less so because through a
modified procedure appellant has been permitted to present it in the state courts, without praying for an injunc-

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
249

263

Opinion of the Court.

tion or alleging that irreparable injury will result from
the collection of the tax.
While the ordinary course of judicial procedure results
in a judgment requiring an award of process or execution
to carry it into effect, such relief is not an indispensable
adjunct to the exercise of the judicial function. Fidelity
Natianal Bank v. Swope, supra, 1932. This Court has
often exerted its judicial power to adjudicate boundaries
between states, although it gave no injunction or other
relief beyond the determination of the legal rights which
were the subject of controversy between the parties,
Louisiana v. Mississippi, 202 U. S. 1; Arkansas v. Tennessee, 246 U. S. 158; Georgia v. South Carolina, 257
U. S. 516; Oklahoma v. Texas, 272 U. S. 21; Michigan v.
Wisconsin, 272 U. S. 398, and to review judgments of the
Court of Claims, although no process issues against the
Government. United States v. Jones, 119 U. S. 477; compare District of Columbiav. Eslin, 183 U. S. 62; Ex parte
Pocono Pines Hotels Co., 285 U. S. 526, reported. below
in 73 Ct. Cls. 447. As we said in Fidelity National Bank
v. Swope, supra, 132, "Naturalization proceedings, Tutun
v. United States, 270 U. S. 568; suits to determine a matrimonial or other status; suits for instructions to a trustee or for the construction of a will; Traphagen v. Levy,
45 N. J. Eq. 448; 18 Atl. 222; bills of interpleader so far
as the stakeholder is concerned, Wakeman v. Kingsland,
46 N. J. Eq. 113; 18 Atl. 680; bills to quiet title where the
plaintiff rests his claim on adverse possession, Sharon v.
Tucker, 144 U. S. 533; are familiar examples of judicial
proceedings which result in an adjudication of the rights
of litigants, although execution is not necessary to carry
the judgment into effect, in the sense that damages are
required to be paid or acts to be performed by the parties."
See also Old Colony Trust Co. v. Commissioner, supra,
725: La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United Statea, 175
U. S. 423.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The issues raised here are the same as those which under
old forms of procedure could be raised only in a suit for
an injunction or one to recover the tax after its payment.
But the Constitution does not require that the case or
controversy should be presented by traditional forms of
procedure, invoking only traditional remedies. The judiciary clause of the Constitution defined and limited judicial power, not the particular method by which that power
might be invoked. It did not crystallize into changeless
form the procedure of 1789 as the only possible means for
presenting a case or controversy otherwise cognizable by
the federal courts. Whenever the judicial power is invoked to review a judgment of a state court, the ultimate
constitutional purpose is the protection, by the exercise of
the judicial function, of rights arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States. The states are left
free to regulate their own judicial procedure. Hence,
changes merely in the form or method of procedure by
which federal rights are brought to final adjudication in
the state courts are not enough to preclude review of the
adjudication by this Court, so long as the case retains the
essentials of an adversary proceeding, involving a real, not
a hypothetical, controversy, which is finally determined
by the judgment below. See Old Colony Trust Co. v.
Commissioner, supra, 724. As the prayer for relief by injunction is not a necessary prerequisite to the exercise of
judicial power, allegations of threatened irreparable injury
which are material only if an injunction is asked, may
likewise be dispensed with if, in other respects, the controversy presented is, as in this case, real and substantial.
Such was the purport and effect of our decision in Fidelity
National Bank v. Swope, supra, where it was held that a
final judgment rendered by a state court in an adversary
proceeding brought under a state statute to determine the
validity of liens about to be imposed for benefits assessed
under a city improvement ordinance, presented a case

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE.
249

265

Opinion of the Court.

within the appellate jurisdiction of this Court. Accordingly, we must consider the constitutional questions raised
by the appeal.
Chapter 58, Tennessee Public Acts, 1923, as amended
by Chapter 67, Tennessee Public Acts, 1925, is said, by its
caption, to impose a privilege tax "on-persons . . . and
corporations engaged in or carrying on the business . . .
of selling or storing or distributing gasoline . . ." within
the state at the rate of 2¢ per gallon on the gasoline sold
or stored, the tax "To be used solely in the construction
and maintenance of a highway system in the state." But
§ 3 provides: "The tax imposed by this Act shall apply.
to persons, firms or corporations, dealers or distributors
storing any of the products mentioned in this Act and distributing the same or allowing the same to be withdrawn
from storage whether such withdrawal be for sale or other
use. . . ." Storage of the gasoline and withdrawal of it
from storage within the state for use or sale, are, as the
state Supreme Court has held, the events which, by the
very terms of the statute, call it into operation., Foster &
Creighton Co. v. Graham, 154 Tenn. 412, 420; 285 S. W.
570; Quick Service Tire Co. v. Smith, 156 Tenn. 96, 102;
299 S. W. 807.
Appellant, an interstate rail carrier, purchases large
quantities of gasoline outside the state of Tennessee and
brings it into the state in tank cars, from which it is unloaded and placed in its own storage tanks. None of it
is sold by appellant, but all is withdrawn and used by it
as a source of motive power in interstate railway operation in Tennessee, Kentucky, Alabama and Georgia.
Storage of the gasolinc is a preliminary step to such use
in interstate commerce. The tax is assailed both on the
ground that it is imposed on the gasoline while still a subject of interstate commerce in the course of transportation
from points of origin to points outside the state of Tennessee; and on the ground that it is in effect a tax upon

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion o the Court.

288 US.

the use of the gasoline in appellant's business as an interstate carrier, and is thus an unconstitutional burden on
interstate commerce.
The gasoline, upon being unloaded and stored, ceased to
be a subject of transportation in interstate commerce and
lost its immunity as such from state taxation. General
Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S.
504; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U. S.
665, 669; Hart Refineries v. Harmon,278 U. S. 499; Gregg
Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472. The fact that the
oil was, in the ordinary course of appellant's business,
later withdrawn from storage for use, some within and
some without the state, part of it thus becoming again
the subject of interstate transportation, did not affect the
power of the state to tax it all before that transportation
commenced. Neither the appellant, the shippers, nor the
carrier, at the time of the shipment of the gasoline from
points of origin, arranged a destination for any part of
the oil other than the appellant's storage tanks in Tennessee. Although in the usual course of business a variable and undefined part of it, when segregated for that
purpose, would again be transported across state boundaries, appellant was free to distribute the oil either within
or without the state for use in its business or for any other
purpose. As nothing in the transaction before the withdrawal from storage in Tennessee can be said to have
given any ascertainable part of the gasoline a destination
to points beyond the state, the case is distinguishable from
Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S. 95, and Texas &
New Orleans R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111.
The oil in storage was not a subject of interstate commerce and so was a part of the common mass of goods
within the state, subject to local taxation. General Oil
Co. v. Crain,supra; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, supra; Bacon v. Illinois, supra; compare Atlantic
Coast Line R. Co. v. Standard Oil Co., 275 U. S. 257.

NASHVILLE, C. & ST. L. RY. v. WALLACE. 267
249

Opinion of the Court.

We cannot say that the tax is a forbidden burden on
interstate commerce because appellant uses the gasoline,
subsequent to the incidence of the tax, as an instrument
of interstate commerce. Taxes said to burden interstate commerce directly when levied upon or measured by
the operation of interstate commerce or gross receipts
derived from it, are beyond the state taxing power, East
Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. S. 465, 470;
Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 170, 171; Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 297, and a tax
levied upon the use of gasoline in generating motive power
for a ferry boat used exclusively in interstate commerce
has been held to be so direct and immediate a burden
on the commerce itself as to be invalid. Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245.
But interstate rail carriers are not wholly immune
from other forms of non-discriminatory state taxation,
even though the burden of the tax is thus indirectly or
incidentally imposed upon the interstate commerce in
which they are engaged. It cannot be doubted that, when
the gasoline came to rest in storage, the state was as free
to tax it, notwithstanding its prospective use as an instrument of interstate commerce, as it was to tax appellant's
right of way, rolling stock or other instruments of interstate commerce, which'are subject to local property taxes.
Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450; U. S.
Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335; Western Union
Telegraph Co.. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 412; Adams Express
Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194, 220; see General American
Tank Car Corp. v. Day, 270 U. S. 367; InterstateBusses
Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, compare ;St. Louis-San
Francisco Ry. Co. v. Middlekamp, 256 U. S. 226, 231;
St. Louis, Southwestern Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350;
Kansas City, F. S. & M. Ry. Co. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227;
Kansas City, M. & B. R. Co. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Watts, 260 U. S. 519. The power to

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

tax property, the sum of all the rights and powers incident to ownership, necessarily includes the power to tax
its constituent elements. See Bromley v. McCaughn, 280
U. S. 124, 136-138. Hence, there can be no valid objection to the taxation of the exercise of any right or power
incident to appellant's ownership of the gasoline, which
falls short of a tax directly imposed on its use in interstate
commerce, deemed forbidden in Helson v. Kentucky,
supra. Here the tax is imposed on the successive exercise of two of those powers, the storage and withdrawal
from storage of the gasoline. Both powers are completely
exercised before use of the gasoline in interstate commerce
begins. The tax imposed upon their exercise is therefore
not one imposed on the use of the gasoline as an instrument of commerce and the burden of it is too indirect
and remote from the function of interstate commerce
itself to transgress constitutional limitations. See Eastern Air Transport v. Tax Commission, 285 U. S. 147.
Appellant objects that the tax violates the Fourteenth
Amendment in that it is levied as a charge for the use
of the highways which appellant does not use. But the
levy is a tax, not a toll or charge for use of the highways,
see Carley & Hamilton v. Snook, 281 U. S. 66, and the
constitutional power to levy taxes does not depend upon
the enjoyment by the taxpayer of any special benefit from
the use of the funds raised by taxation. Carley & Hamilton v. Snook, supra; St. Louis & Southwestern Ry. Co. v.
Nattin, 277 U. S. 157, 159. The allegations of the bill
showing that a heavier burden of taxation is imposed upon
railroads than upon common carriers by motor bus, examined in the light of the applicable statutes of the State,
fall short of alleging a discrimination forbidden by either
the commerce clause or the Fourteenth Amendment.

Affirmed.

