OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

about a change of title or possession. Later cases have
drawn a distinction between the liens of judgments and of
mortgages. These last have been thought to have the
effect of a conveyance, divesting the debtor of his title and
leaving nothing but an equity to which a preference can
attach. Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., .1 Pet. 386;
Brent v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596, 611, 612; Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 421, 428.
We do not now determine whether the holding in the
mortgage cases is to be applied in jurisdictions where a
mortgage upon real estate is a lien and nothing more
(Trimm v. Marsh, 54 N. Y. 599), nor whether, if so applied, it imports a modification of the holding in the
Thelusson case as to the lien of a judgment. Cf. United
States v. Canal Bank, 3 Story 79, 81; United States v.
Duncan, 4 McLean 607, 630. A mortgage, even though
a lien, is one much more specific than a judgment or a tax,
much closer to ownership. Conard v. Atlantic Insurance
Co., 8upra, p. 443; In re Boyd, 4 Sawyer 262, 264. Into
these refinements and their consequences, there is no need
to enter now. Enough for present purposes that the statutory preference must prevail against the lien of a tax not
presently enforcible, but serving merely as a caveat of a
more perfect lien to come.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN PRODUCTS CO. v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CUSTOMS & PATENT APPEALS.

No. 272.

Argued January 10, 11, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

The Tariff Act of 1922 empowers the President to change rates of
duty in order to equalize differences in costs of production in this
country and abroad, but provides--§ 315 (c)-that before he acts
there shall have been an investigation of such differences by the

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

295

Syllabus.

Tariff Commission, in the making of which the Commission shall
give reasonable public notice of its hearings, and shall give "reasonable opportunity to parties interested to be present, to produce
evidence, and to be heard." The Commission is authorized "to
adopt such reasonable procedure, rules and regulations as it may
deem necessary." Held:
1. The right of hearing, in the case of a foreign producer which
refused to reveal its cost of production although its domestic competitor offered to reveal its own costs if the disclosure were mutual,
did not include the right to examine the statement of costs which
the domestic producer furnished the Commission in confidence; or
the right to inspect data gathered confidentially by the Commission, upon which it was obliged to base its estimate of the foreign
costs; or the right to elicit such information by examination of the
domestic producer's officers and the Commission's agents,--such
confidential information being withheld in accordance with the
practice of the Commission in like cases. Pp. 303 et seq.
2. Generally speaking, the kind of hearing assured by the statute
to parties interested is one of the same order as has customarily, but
optionally, been allowed by congressional committees, in the tariffmaking process. Pp. 305, 319.
3. That the "hearing" assured does not include a privilege to
ransack the records of the Commission, and to subject its confidential agents to an examination of all that they have learned, is
demonstrated by the tariff-making practice of Congress; the history
of the passing of this statute; the history of the Commission's
predecessors, and of the Commission itself, and its practice under
the statute with the implied approval of both the President and
Congress; and also by the contrast between the generality of
§ 315 (c), and the explicit provision for cross-examination and for
inspection of papers found in § 381, relating to matters of appraisal
before the Board of General Appraisers. Pp. 303-319.
4. The word "hearing," applied to administrative proceedings,
may have one meaning or another according to the context and
subject matter. An administrative hearing that may result in an
order impinging on legal rights, such as those affecting the rates
and conduct of public service corporations, is very different from
a hearing before the Tariff Commission, which merely reports and
recommends. P. 317.
5. No one has a legal right to the maintenance of an existing
tariff rate. P. 318.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for. Parties.

288 U.S.

6. An applicant for increase of duty is not required by the
statute or by the Commission's rules to include a statement of his
costs of production in his application. P. 320.
7. The Commission in conducting an investigation is free to act
on its own motion; and the function of an application when filed is
not that of a pleading in a lawsuit. P. 319.
8. The function of the Commission is that of an adviser of the
President or Congress; not that of an arbiter between adverse
litigants. P. 321.
9. If the Commission is under any duty. to make disclosure of
costs, the origin and measure of the duty are to be found in the
implied duty to do whatever may be necessary to make the hearing
fair. P. 321.
10. Refusal to make such disclosure, is an exercise of discretionary power and could not be impeached if not shown to be
arbitrary. P. 321.
11. Such a refusal was not arbitrary when actuated by the
Commission's settled policy of withholding the confidential information when its publication might work hardship or injustice or
hamper the work of the Commission; in the case of an importer
who insisted that all the confidential data be disclosed without
defining or seeking anything less, and who was unwilling to use
reasonable effort to make disclosure of the costs of his principal
abroad. Pp. 321-323.
12. The Commission has power to interpret its own rules, by
administrative practice. P. 325.
13. That part of its riles which excepts from examination by the
parties before it such portions of its records as relate to "trade
secrets and processes," has been interpreted by the Commission as
keeping costs secret for the protection of producers, both foreign
and domestic, unless disclosure is so cloaked that the identity of
the producers will be effectively disguised. P. 324.
20 C.C.PA. (Cust.) 27; T.D. 45,674, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

287 U. S. 586, to review the affirmance of a

judgment of the United States Customs Court sustaining
certain duties over the protests of the importer. For
earlier phases of the same dispute, see 274 U. S. 106.
Mr. Marion De Vries, with whom Messrs. Jesse P.
Crawford and H. Kennedy McCook were on the brief, for
petitioner.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

297

Opinion of the Court.

Solicitor General Thacher, with whom Assistant Attorney General Lawrence and Mr. Robert P. Reeder were
on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzO delivered the opinion of the Court.

On May 6, 1924, the President of the United States determined and proclaimed that an increase in the rate of
duty on sodium nitrite was necessary to equalize the differences in the cost of production in the United States and
the principal competing country, Norway, and that to
that end the duty should be increased from 3 cents per
pound to 41/2 cents per pound. The proclamation was
made after an investigation and report by the United
States Tariff Commission under the flexible tariff provisions of the Tariff Act of 1922. Tariff Act of September
21, 1922, c. 356, § 315, 42 Stat. 858, 941-943. After the
new rate of duty had thus gone into effect, there were new
importations of sodium nitrite at the port of New York.
The duty was assessed by the customs officers in accordance with the proclamation; and protests were filed by
the petitioner, which is the exclusive agent within the
United States of the leading exporter to this country of
the commodity affected. The protests were made upon
the ground that the Tariff Commission in investigating
the costs of production in the United States and Norway
had not given the petitioner the hearing prescribed by
the statute, and that all that followed was of no validity.
A judgment of the Customs Court overruling the protests
(T. D. 44,824, 59 Treas. Dec. 921) was affirmed by the
Court of Customs and Patent Appeals. 20 C. C. P. A.
(Customs) 27; T. D. 45,674. A writ of certiorari brings
the case here.
In October, 1922, the American Nitrogen Products Company submitted to the Tariff Commission a request for
a report and recommendation to the President that the
duty on sodium nitrite be increased fifty per cent. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288U.S.

stated in this request that with every reasonable effort to
economize it had been unable to compete with the foreign
manufacturers and had been forced to close its plant. In
response to this request, the Commission on March 27,
1923, ordered that an investigation be made, declared that
a public hearing would be held on a date thereafter to be
fixed, and gave public notice of its order. The Commission then proceeded to the business of investigation.
From the chief producers of sodium nitrite in the United
States (the American Nitrogen Products Company and another) the agents of the Commission received the fullest
measure of disclosure as to the costs of production and
other details of the business. The information as to costs
was subject to a pledge of secrecy, the manufacturers taking the position, to which the Commission acceded, that
costs were trade secrets, to be withheld from competitors.
The chief foreign producers were two, the Norsk-Hydro,
a Norwegian company, represented by the petitioner, and
the Badische-Anilin of Germany. Both foreign producers
refused to supply the investigators for the Commission
with any statement of costs, or to permit access to their
records. The Norwegian company wrote afterwards in a
cablegram to the petitioner: "On principle we always
refuse publish cost price, consequently did not furnish
investigators any information enabling them calculate cost
price." The Commission was hindered, but not baffled.
Its investigators went to Norway and consulting other
sources of information made an estimate of cost as best
they could. By July 20, 1923, the preliminary investigation was over, and the Commission was ready for a
public hearing. It gave public notice on that date that
on September 10, 1923, all parties interested would be
given an opportunity to appear before the Commission,
to produce evidence and to be heard with regard to differences in the cost of sodium nitrite and any other facts and
conditions affecting the inquiry.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

299

Opinion of the Court.

At the time thus appointed, the petitioner appeared,
represented by its counsel. It made a motion at the
beginning that it receive a complete copy of the request or
application for an increase of rates. The copy already
furnished to it was not complete, in that the details of
the costs of production at the applicant's factory had been
left out. The president of the applicant protested that
the information as to costs had been given under a promise
to hold it confidential, and the chairman .of the Commission thereupon assured him that the promise would be
kept. The request of the importer was accordingly
refused. The hearing then proceeded, the president of
the American Nitrogen Products Compaiy appearing as
a witness. He gave general information as to the state of
the industry, showing by his testimony that the foreign
producers were selling their product in this country at
a lower price than they were selling it in their home
markets, and showing also that by reason of a difference
in the manufacturing process in this country and abroad
the foreign producers were able to manufacture sodium
nitrite as a by-product, and thus to dispose of it far more
cheaply than was possible here. A change of the domestic
plant in adaptation to the foreign process would involve
prohibitory expense. Counsel for the importer was
allowed to cross-examine as to everything brought out at
the public hearing. He was not allowed, however, to
extract from the witness a statement of the costs of production, the witness again protesting that disclosure of
these costs, though it had been made to the Commission
in the preliminary investigation, ought not to be made in
public for the use of a competitor. At the end of the
examination, there was an adjournment of the hearing
until September 26.
In the interval, there were other happenings that bear
on the merits of the controversy. On September 15, 1923,
the Commission made public a report or summary of its

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

information, still omitting, however, any statement as to

the costs of production at the applicant's domestic plant.
On September 11, it received a letter from the importer's
counsel renewing his demand for a complete copy of the
application and demanding at the same time that "every
particle of evidence gathered by the Commission or its
representatives" be submitted to his inspection, and that
he be accorded the privilege of examining any and all
witnesses, including the field agents of the Commission,
with reference thereto. On September 24, the Commission wrote to counsel refusing his request for a disclosure
of "every particle of evidence," but stating that the
American Nitrogen Products Company had agreed to
disclose its cost of production data if the opposition, the
Norwegian Nitrogen Products Company, would furnish
cost data for the Norwegian product. The importer did
not accept this offer. It did not present any excuse for
failing to accept it. It did not even state that it had
made any effort to induce its principal abroad to supply
it with the necessary data. It paid no attention to the
suggestion that disclosure should be mutual, and stood
upon its rights, whatever they might be.
On September 26, the hearing went on again. Counsel
for the importers submitted copies of cablegrams exchanged between his client and its Norwegian principal.
The cablegram from the client informed the principal of
the estimate of costs of production in Norway contained
in the summary prepared by the Commission. The answering cablegram stated that the estimate was far too
low, but confirmed the report of the investigators that
information had been refused on the ground that the costs
were confidential. That part of the cablegram has been
quoted already. The chairman, responding to. a request
for an adjournment of thirty days, made inquiry of coun-.
sel whether definite figures would be obtained from Nor-

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

301

Opinion of the Court.

way in return for the extension. To this counsel retorted
that he was not offering any consideration, nor joining
in any barter, but "relying strictly upon the statute."
The outcome of the colloquy was an order for an adjournment until October 6. Before this adjournment was
taken, counsel sobmitted five separate requests. Request
number one was that his client "have reasonable opportunity to inspect and to be heard upon all evidence which
has been offered in this case, not deemed by the Commission trade secrets, or not, in fact, trade secrets." Request
number two was to inspect and to be fully heard upon
"all the evidence in the possession of the Commission as
to the cost of power in the United States in the production of nitrite." Number three was a like request with
reference to the number of laborers employed by the
American Nitrogen Products Company and the wages
paid. Number four was a like request with reference to
the capital invested in its plant. Number five was a request that the experts of the Commission be produced
for cross-examination with reference to the information
collected by them in the course of the inquiry, and that
the importer be permitted to offer testimony and to be
heard in opposition thereto.
. At the adjourned hearing on October 6, the Commission announced its ruling with reference to these requests,
notice of the ruling having been previously conveyed to
counsel for the importer. The decision was in substance
that data gathered by the Commission with the understanding that they were to be treated as confidential v;uld be
withheld; that the investigators working for the Commission would not be required to produce such data or to be
cross-examined about them; but that as to all these subjects of inquiry the importer would be permitted to offer
any evidence that it was able to present, and to be heard
in oral and written argument with reference thereto.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

Upon the announcement of this ruling, counsel for the
importer stated that he would offer no testimony on behalf
of his client but would thereafter file a brief.
On December 12, 1923, before the Commission had reported to the President, the petitioner applied to the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for a writ of
mandamus directing the Commission to disclose the information sought. The petition was dismissed, the court
ruling that the action of the Commission had been in conformity with law. An appeal to the Court of Appeals
followed, but while it was pending the Commission made
a report to the President, and upon the basis of that report the President issued his proclamation for an increase
of the duty. The Court of Appeals expressed an opinion,
not called for by its judgment, that the information should
have been given. It decided, however, that the petition
had become moot by force of the action of the President, 6 F. (2d) 491, and so did this court. U. S. ex rel.
Norwegian Nitrogen Products Co. v. United States Tariff
Commission, 274 U. S. 106. The stages through which
the controversy has come to us again have already been
described.
The Tariff Act of 1922 (c. 356, § 315; 42 Stat. 858, 941)
gives authority to the President to increase or decrease
the rates of duty specified in the act if he finds upon
investigation that increase or decrease is necessary in order
to equalize the differences in the cost of production in the
United States and elsewhere. It provides, § 315 (c), that
in ascertaining these differences, "the President, in so far
as he finds it practicable, shall take int6 consideration (1)
the differences in conditions in production, including
wages, costs of material, and other items in costs of production of such or similar articles in the United States
and in competing foreign countries; (2) the differences in
the wholesale selling prices of domestic and foreign articles in the principal markets of the United States; (3)

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

303

.Opinion of the Court.

advantages granted to a foreign producer by a foreign
government, or by a person, partnership, corporation, or
association in a foreign country; and (4) any other advantages or disadvantages in competition." This provision is followed by others designed to give protection
against hasty or ill-considered changes. There shall be
no proclamation under the authority of the statute until
an investigation to assist the President has been made by
the United States Tariff Commission, which is "authorized
to adopt such reasonable procedure, rules and regulations
as it may deem necessary." Coupled with these general
directions is a mandate more particular which is the petitioner's chief reliance. "The commission shall give reasonable public notice of its hearings and shall give reasonable opportunity to parties interested to be present, to
produce evidence, and to be heard." § 315 (c).
The decision of this case hinges upon our answer to the
question whether the petitioner has been "heard" in accordance with the statute. Does the requirement of a
hearing mean that every producer or importer affected by
a tariff may explore at will the data collected by the Commission as to the capital, the wages, the cost of material
and manufacture, in the business of any other person
similarly affected, and may cross-examine investigators
and competitors upon the data thus laid bare? If something less than this is exacted, is there still a minimum of
disclosure without which the purpose of the hearing will
be thwarted altogether, and was this minimum attained
by what was done by the Commission here?
1. History, analogy and administrative practice point
with sureness to the conclusion that letters of marque
have not been issued to every producer or importer affected by a tariff to capture knowledge of the business of
every rival so affected in all the intimate details uncovered
to the investigating officers.
The appeal to history is a threefold one: to the history
of the process of tariff-making by Congress and congres-

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

sional committees; to the history of this statute in its
progress through the Houses; and to the history of this
investigating commission and of others that came before.
The process of tariff-making by Congress and congressional committees is not different in essentials from that
for legislation generally. If the bill has gone to a committee, the practice has been general to give the privilege
of a hearing to business men and others affected by its
provisions. The hearing is not one that may be demanded
as of right. A change of the tariff laws like a change of
any other statute is not subject to impeachment on the
score of invalidity though notice to those affected has been
omitted altogether. Luce, Legislative Procedure, p. 143,
cf. Buttfield v. Stranahan, 192 U. S. 470. Even so, the
privilege is now so fortified by practice that it may fairly
be taken for granted. But the hearing when given is not
similar to a trial as conducted in a court. The proponents
of a bill and the contestants make their statements for and
against, bringing forward such confirmatory documents,
trade journals, letters, governmental reports, and what
not, as they believe to be important. The kind of information thus supplied can be gathered from the proceedings of the committees that reported the tariff act in question, the Act of 1922, as well as from those leading up to
the tariff acts of other years. In none of these congressional hearings has the practice ever prevailed of permitting the advocates of a measure to cross-examine the opponents, or the opponents the advocates, or of compelling
the committee itself to submit to an inquisition as to data
collected by its members through independent investigation. The committee determines for itself whether its
sessions shall be public or private. "Investigations [in
Congress] often proceed behind closed doors, for the manifest reason that otherwise some witnesses _would not be
frank, perhaps would not attend, putting themselves if

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

Opinion of the Court.

possible beyond the reach of the committee." Luce, Legislative Procedure, p. 144. It is all a matter of discretion.
What is done by the Tariff Commission and the President
in changing the tariff rates to conform to new conditions
is in substance a delegation, though a permissible one, of
the legislative process. Hampton & Co. v. United States,
276 U. S. 394; Buttfield v. Stranahan, supra; Field v.
Clark, 143 U. S.649. The inference is, therefore, a strong
one that the kind of hearing assured by the statute to
those affected by the change is a hearing of the same order
as had been given by congressional committees when the
legislative process was in the hands of Congress and no one
else. To be sure there has been a change of sanction.
What was once a mere practice has been converted into a
legal privilege. But the limits of the privilege were not
meant to be greatly different from those of the andient
practice that had shaped the course of legislation.
We have said that the inference is a strong one, yet, of
course, it is far from conclusive and might even be inadequate if it were considered by itself. The history of the
statute as it passed through the two Houses of the Congress supplies confirmatory evidence. The bill in its early
stages empowered the President to change tariff rates, but
said nothing whatever as to the manner in which the preliminary investigation should be made. 62 Cong. Rec., pt.
7, p. 7108, pt. 11, pp. 11,155, 11,156, 11,193. A letter
from President Harding to the chairman of the Finance
Committee of the Senate recommended that Congress
name the Tariff Commission as the source of information and recommendation upon which the President
might proclaim a change. 62-Cong. Rec., pt. 11, p. 11,211.
Several amendments embodying this recommendation
were proposed in each chamber of the Congress. Nowhere in the long debates that followed is there a suggestion by any one that witnesses or others appearing in the

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

inquiry should be heard in any other way than according
to the customary procedure for investigating bodies. The
first amendment named the Tariff Commission as the investigator, but gave no directions as to the mode of
action. 62 Cong. Rec., pt. 11, pp. 11,229, 11,232. A second provided that the Commission "shall give such opportunity as it deems proper for the presentation of material facts in each case and arguments thereon." 62 Cong.
Rec., pt. 11, p. 11,229. These provisions aroused the
fear that at times there might be no hearing, or hearings
at which only one side would be permitted to appear. 62
Cong. Rec., pt. 11, p. 11,231. A third amendment, proposed in the Senate, recast the statute by providing that
"the Commission shall give reasonable public notice and
shall give reasonable opportunity to parties interested to
be present and to produce evidence and to be heard,"
which is in the statute as enacted, and by providing also
"said hearings shall be public" and the President shall
publish with his findings "the hearings and testimony."
62 Cong. Rec., pt. 11, pp. 11,231, 11,232. These last provisions were omitted in conference, and the section was
thus amended to read as it stands today. 62 Cong. Rec.,
pt. 12, p. 12,627. The omission may have been unwise,
but it certainly was not inadvertent. The managers on
the part of the House reported (62 Cong. Rec., pt. 12, p.
12,660): "The action of the conferees eliminates the provision of the Senate amendment that the Tariff Commission hearings shall be public and that the President shall
make the findings, hearings and testimony in all proceedings public as soon as practicable after the issuance of a
proclamation." The change was criticized in the Senate
(62 Cong. Rec., pt. 12, p. 12,888) but in the face of the
criticism it was written into the law.
If Congress was unwilling to prescribe a requirement
that the "hearings shall be public," or that the President
shall publish the testimony when announcing his decision,

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

307

Opinion of the Court.

it is hard to believe that it intended every member of the
public affected by an increase or decrease of the duty to
inspect and copy all the records and data collected by the
Commission, and to cross-examine the investigators as
well as the producers or importers appearing at the hearing. If a privilege so far-reaching was to be accorded as
a matter of right, there would be a publicity far greater
than any that would result from throwing the doors of
the hearings open to all who wished to enter. By the
Revenue Act of 1916 (c. 463, § 706, 39 Stat. 756, 797), the
Commission and its agents are given access to any document pertinent to the subject matter under investigation
in the possession- of any one engaged in the production,
importation or distribution of the commodity affected,
with power to inspect and copy, to summon witnesses and
to administer oaths. If the hearings are to have the scope
for which the petitioner contends, all this information is
subject to the call of every business rival, unless it comes
within the description of "trade secrets or processes."
Revenue Act of 1916, § 708. It happens in this case that
the number of competitors is small. Cases may arise in
which it will mount into the hundreds. Any one of these
competitors will be free, in the view of the petitioner, to
pry without hindrance into the business of the others, for
everything collected by the Commission will have the
quality of a public record. Not only will there be a privilege to inspect whatever is of record, but the process, it
is said, may be carried even farther, by examination and
cross-examination as to whatever is thus discovered. The
statute does not say that the parties affected by the duty
may be present during the preliminary investigation by
the agents of the Commission. They are to be present
at a hearing, which may be public or private as the Commission shall determine. The statute does not say that
they are to have an opportunity to produce evidence and
to be heard to whatever extent they may desire. It says

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of -the Court.

288 US.

that they are to have a reasonable opportunity, and this
subject to the power of the Commission to adopt such
reasonable procedure, rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary. Nothing in the statute suggests a belief of the
lawmakers that every producer or importer is to be
viewed, like a party to a lawsuit, as the adversary of every
other, with the privilege of examination and cross-examination extended through the series. "There must be a
limit to individual argument in such matters if government is to go on." Holmes, J., in Bi-Metallic Co. v.
Colorado, 239 U. S. 441, 445.
Our discussion of the significance of history as an aid
to the construction of the statute will be inadequate if
it is confined to the history of hearings by congressional
committees and to the amendments of the bill in its
progress through the Houses. There is need to consider
also the history of this Commission before the Act of
1922, and that of earlier commissions organized for kindred purposes.
The powers of the President under the flexible tariff
provisions of the Act of 1922 differ in degree rather than
in kind from powers that have long been his. By an act
of March 3, 1815 (3 Stat. 224), the President was empowered to give effect to a repeal of duties upon imports
whenever he was "satisfied that the discriminating or
countervailing duties" of the foreign nation affected, " so
far as they operate to the disadvantage of the United
States" had been abolished. See Field v. Clark, 143
U. S. 649, 685. Powers very similar were conferred in
later years. See, e. g., Act of March 3, 1817, c. 39, 3 Stat.
361; Act of January 7, 1824, c. 4, 4 Stat. 3; Act of May
31, 1830, c. 219, 4 Stat. 425; Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121,
23 Stat. 57; Field v. Clark, supra, pp. 686, 689.1 The Tar'For other instances see Comer, Legislative Functions of National
Administrative Authorities, pp. 64, et eq.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U.S.
294

309

Opinion of the Court.

iff Act of 1890 went farther than those before it. Whenever the President became satisfied that the government
of any country producing and exporting certain enumerated articles had imposed duties upon the agricultural or
other products of the United States which he found to be
reciprocally unequal and unreasonable, he was to have
power to suspend the provisions of the tariff law whereby
importation of the enumerated articles had previously
been free. 26 Stat. 567, 612, c. 1244. Broader still was
the delegation of power under the Tariff Act. of 1909,
which set up a system of maximum and minimum rates
with permission to the President to adopt the one set
.or the other. 36 Stat. 11, 82, c. 6. Under none of these
statutes was executive action conditioned upon an inquiry
and report by any officer or department. In the fulfilment of his duties, the President consulted whatever
sources of information appeared to be appropriate, and
when satisfied as to the facts, made proclamation of his
action.
The first statute for the appointment of a commission
to deal with the problem of the tariff was enacted in 1882.
22 Stat. 64, c. 145. See F. W. Taussig, Tariff History of
the United States, 8th edition, p. 231. The Commission,
which was to be an investigating body merely, was established as an aid to Congress rather than the President.
It was to report at the next session of Congress what
changes it thought desirable. After the expiration of its
life neither President nor Congress received official aid
that was more than desultory or occasional till a body
styled the Tariff Board was organized by President Taft
in 1909. Taussig, supra, pp. 405, 481. This board was
established under a provision of the Tariff Act of that
year, which by § 2 gave the President a choice between
two sets of duties, a maximum and a minimum. "To
secure information to assist the President-in the discharge
of the duties imposed upon him by.this section, and the

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

officers of the government in the administration of the
customs laws, the President is hereby authorized to
employ such persons as may be required." 36 Stat. 83,
c. 6. The function of the new board was to investigate
and advise. See Taussig, supra, p. 424.
The Tariff Board went down at the end of 1912 through
the failure of the Congress to provide the ways and means.
Taussig, upra, 424, n. 1. No similar body was created till
the organization of the present Tariff Commission in 1916.
Act of September 8, 1916, c. 463, §§ 700, 702, 703, 706,
707; 39 Stat. 756, 795, 796, 797; 19 U. S. Code, §§ 91, 96,
97, 100, 101. Cf. Taussig, upra, p. 481. The function of
the Commission as first organized was to investigate the
administration and fiscal and industrial effects of the customs laws of this country and other kindred problems, to
put at the disposal of the President, the Committee on
Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and
the Committee on Finance of the Senate, whenever
requested, all information, at its command, and to make
such investigations and reports as might be requested by
the President or by either of the committees or by either
branch of Congress. In aid of these purposes and duties,
it was empowered to subpoena witnesses and conduct
hearings. The result of an investigation might be a
recommendation to Congress that would lead to the
increase or decrease of existing duties. There is nothing
to show that in conducting these investigations it permitted any interested person to inspect its collected data,
or to cross-examine others. On the other hand, it does
affirmatively appear, set forth at large in its reports to
Congress, that it withheld even from that body disclosure
*of the costs of production of individual producers, confining its reports to averages and symbols that gave no
token of identity. Census of Dyes and Coal Tar Chem-

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

311

Opinion of the Court.

icals for 1917, p. 11; Ninth Annual Report, U. S. Tariff
Commission, p. 17; Sixteenth Annual Report, p. 19.2
From the beginning there has been an administrative
policy to treat the costs or investments of identified producers as akin to a trade secret, with the result that
disclosure, even if not strictly within the prohibition of
the statute (Revenue Act of 1916, § 70), was forbidden
in the view of the Commission by persuasive considerations of fair dealing and expediency. Congress did not
then protest and indeed never has protested, though Congress was the very body for whose benefit the investigation had been made and the reports transmitted. In
providing, as it did, in 1922, that a reasonable opportunity
for a hearing should be given to any one affected by a
change, it had no thought, we may well believe, to prohibit
reservations and confidences that would be allowed
against itself.
The administrative practice before the Act of 1922
might be too desultory and brief to fix the meaning of the
statute if it did not find support; and that unmistakable
and ample, in administrative practice afterwards. Consistently through all its hearings the Commission has acted
upon the principle that the cost of production will not be
made known to competitors if the producers are so few
that there can be no disclosure of the cost without disclosing the identity of those producing at that cost. A
report by the Commission, submitted by the Government in connection with the briefs, explains the practice
that has been followed and the reasons supporting it. At
times the reports by the Commission have shown costs
identified by number or by letter. This has been done
"In the investigations by the Tariff Board of 1909, the practice
apparently was the same. H. C. Emery,, The Tariff Board and Its
Work, p. 14, Government Printing Office, 1910.

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

in those instances and those only where producers were
so many that identity was cloaked. Even then, it was
often necessary to combine the costs in one country, for
example, in Eastern Venezuela, with those in other countries, or to combine items of one class, for example, advertising expenses, with items of another class, such as
administrative expenses. At times the Commission has
resorted to the expedient of showing costs in the form of
averages. It has applied the same methods impartially
to residents and to foreigners. In one of its reports the
foreign costs of Danish and Dutch producers were published in combined form in order to avoid disclosure of
the costs in Denmark, the principal competing country.
Finally a third group of reports exists where the cost data
are not given at all, either directly or indirectly. This
has been the form where there were fewer than three companies, or where the number was very small and one predominated in the industry. The reports taken collectively
show variations in degree as to the kind and fulness of the
information imparted to the public, the variations depending in every instance upon the estimate by the Commission of the effect of the disclosure.' What is more significant than any variations in the reports is a strain of
uniformity that runs through all alike. Not in one of
them is there a disclosure of the individual data brought
together by the Commission through the work of its investigators. Not in one is there the suggestion that the
reasonable opportunity for a hearing conceded by the statute carries with it the opportunity to inspect "every
particle of evidence" collected by the Commission, and
to examine and cross-examine the men who have
collected it.
*The Government has exhibited to the court the original reports
as well as a summary of their contents.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

313

Opinion of the Court.

Acquiescence by Congress in an administrative practice
may be an inference from silence during a period of years.
In this instance the inference is strengthened when it is
recalled that during some of those years the Commission
was under fire. In 1926, there was a resolution by the
Senate for the appointment of a committee to investigate
the workings of the flexible tariff. S. Res. 162, 69th Congress. The inquiry was to have "particular reference to
the regulations and procedure of the Tariff Commission,
the powers exercised and the functions performed by said
Commission, and to the institution, investigation, hearing,
and decision of cases" arising under § 315 of the Act of
1922. United States Senate Hearings, Investigation of
Tariff Commission, 1926, 1927. In the investigation that
followed, the procedure and methods of the Commission
were thoroughly explored. One of its members, Mr.
Glassie, in his statement to the Committee, explained that
it was impossible for the hearing to be "so conducted as
to permit of the open disclosure of the individual evidence
of costs." United States Senate Hearings, supra, p. 529.
Indeed, without such explanation, the reservation of these
and kindred confidences was made abundantly apparent
by records and reports. At the close of the inquiry, the
Committee reported to the Senate. Senate Report No.
1325, 70th Congress, First Session, May 28, 1928. A majority of the Committee advised that the flexible provisions of the tariff act be repealed for the reason chiefly
that. the President was already overburdened with executive duties, and that the Commission be reorganized as a
.congressional agency. There was no criticism of the praclice whereby the costs of individual producers were treated
as confidential. A minority report advised that the Commission be continued and with it the provision for a flexible tariff. Such it seems was also the judgment of Congress as a whole, for despite the majority report of the

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

Committee, the Commission exists today. Tariff Act of
1930, c. 497; 46 Stat. 590,.696, §§ 330-336.'
The administrative practice developed before the Act
of 1922 has thus been continued and confirmed with the
There is instruction in the experience of England and Australia.
The English Import Duties Act of 1932 imposed upon an "Import
Duties Advisory Committee" as well as upon an existing Board of
Trade duties of *investigation and advice akin to the respondent's.
28 Chitty's Annual Statutes, pt. I, pp. 93, 94, 99, 100.
Confidential information is protected as follows (§ 10):
"(1) No information relating to any individual business, being
information which has been obtained by the Committee or the Board
of Trade by virtue of the provisions of this Act, shall, without the
previous consent in writing of the owner for the time being of that
business, be published or disclosed except to members of the Committee or to a Government Department requiring that information
for the purposes of this Act, or to a person authorised by the Committee or by a Government Department and requiring that information for those purposes, or except for the purposes of a prosecution
under this Act."
Australia also has a Tariff Board. At first, there was no requirement of public hearings. Tariff Board Act of 1921. The Board
states in its report for the year 1923: "It will readily be understood
when representatives of industries or manufacturers are called upon
to give definite details of their costs and manufacture such information must be given confidentially." Third Annual Report of Australian Tariff Board, June, 1923, p. 23. A requirement of public
hearings was imposed by an amendment of the statute. Tariff Board
Act of 1924, § 3. It then became necessary that applicants for increases or decreases "'present their cases publicly and on oath."
Seventh Annual Report of Australian Tariff Board, June, 1928, p. 14.
This does not mean, however, that there is no restraint upon publicity. The same statute provides that upon the objection of a
witness, evidence which the Board is satisfied is of a confidential
nature may be presented in private if the Board considers it desirable in the public interest to do so. Annals of the American Academy
of Political and Social Science, vol. CXLI, January, 1929, Tariff
Problems of the United States, pp. 83, 84. The Board evidently
considers cost figures to be confidential. Third Annual Report,
supra. They were so considered, it seems, in the debates in Parliament. 108 Parl. Debates, 3968, 4003 (1924).

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

315

Opinion of the Court.

tacit approval of the President and the acquiescence of
the Congress. As late as January 28, 1933, after this
cause had been submitted to the court, the signs of acquiescence and approval were strikingly renewed. On that
day there was a resolution by the Senate directing a
report by the Commission in respect of problems of the
tariff. 76 Cong. Rec., pp. 2877, 2878. One of the subjects to be reported was the "range and variety of costs
of production related to the quantities produced in each
cost range in the United States and in competing foreign
countries for each industry investigated by the Tariff
Commission since 1920 (so far as can be given without
disclosing the costs of individual concerns)." The history
of the methods of this investigating body is thus carried
down to date. True indeed it is that administrative practice. does not avail to overcome a statute so plain in its
commands as to leave nothing for construction. True it
also is that administrative practice, consistent and generally unchallenged, will not be overturned except for very
cogent reasons if the scope of the command is indefinite
and doubtful. United States v. Moore, 95 U. S. 760, 763;
Logan v. Davis, 233 U. S. 613, 627; Brewster v. Gage, 280
U. S. 327, 336; Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, 282'
U. S. 375; Interstate Commerce Cornmn. v. N. Y., N. H.
& H. R. Co., 287 U. S. 178. The practice has peculiar
weight when it involves a contemporaneous construction
of a statute by the men charged with the responsibility of
setting its machinery in motion, of making the parts work
efficiently and smoothly while they are yet untried and
new. Fawcus Machine Co. v. United States, supra.
To the external aids that are drawn from history and
analogy and administrative practice there is to be added
another that may be said to be internal, the aid to be derived from the wording of related sections. In the same
tariff act that makes provision in these general words
for a hearing by the Commission as a step in the develop-

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

ment of the process of legislation, there is another section
prescribing the remedy available to an inmiporter after the
legislative process has been completed, and the question
is whether the merchandise has been properly appraised.
Act of September 21, 1922, c. 356, § 501, 42 Stat. 966;
19 U. S. Code, § 381. The remedy in such circumstances
is an appeal from the decision of the appraiser to the
Board of General Appraisers. The Board shall assign
the appeal to one of its members, who shall give reasonable notice of the time and place of the hearing, "at which
the parties and their attorneys shall have an opportunity
to introduce evidence and to hear and cross-examine the
witnesses of the other party and to inspect all samples and
all papers admitted or offered as evidence." This is the
way that Congress spoke when it wished to attach to an
administrative proceeding the incidents of a trial in court.
There are times when the obscurity of one section as contrasted with the clearness of another may be ascribed to
inattention. The need is not perceived of filling up the
outlines because what is within them is assumed or carelessly overlooked. Not so in this case where Congress
had its attention sharply directed to the fact that plain
speech was needed if a hearing was to mean so much.
Until it spoke thus plainly, the importer was denied the
right to cross-examine and inspect, and this though the
privilege of a hearing had been his for many years. It
took an explicit statute to overcome the long established
policy of the government whereby witnesses testifying to
values were to be protected from publicity.' If the dis5

" It is due to merchants and others called to give such information that their statements shall be taken in the presence of official
persons only. It must often occur that persons in possession of
facts which would be of value to the appraisers in determining market values are deterred from appearing or testifying by the publicity
given to reappraisement proceedings." See the Treasury Instructions of June 9, 1885, set forth in full in Aufjmordt v. Hedden, in!ra.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

317

Opinion of the Court.

satisfied importer "is afforded such notice and hearing as
enables him to give his views and make his contention in
respect to the value of his goods, he cannot complain."
Origet v. Hedden, 155 U. S. 228, 238; Auffmordt v. Hedden, 137 U. S. 310.8 For years this opportunity for a
statement was his only legal privilege, though the effect
of the appraisal had a direct relation to his own interests
and burdens as contrasted with the interests and burdens
that concern the public generally,-though the controversy, in brief, was closer to the field of judicature than
to that of legislation. A fortiori the privilege is no greater
in such a controversy as this where legislation rather than
judicature supplies the paramount analogy.
We are not unmindful of cases in which the word "hearing" as applied to administrative proceedings has been
thought to have a broader meaning. All depends upon
the context. There is no denial of the power of Congress
to lay bare to the business rivals of a producer and indeed
to the public generally every document in the office of this
Commission and all the information collected by its
agents. The question for us here is whether there was
the will to go so far. The answer will not be found in
definitions of a hearing lifted from their setting and then
applied to new conditions. The answer will be found in
a consideraton of the ends to be achieved in the particular conditions that were expected or foreseen. To know
what they are, there must be recourse to all the aids available in the process of construction, to history and analogy
and practice as well as to the dictionary. Much is made
by the petitioner of the procedure of the Interstate Commerce Commission when regulating the conduct or the
charges of interstate carriers, and that of the Public
Service Commissions of the states when regulating the
'See Freund, Administrative Powers over Persons and Property,
p. 162, and compare pp. 158, 160.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

conduct or the charges of public service corporations. The
Tariff Commission advises; these others ordain. There
is indeed this common bond that all alike are instruments
in a governmental process which according to the accepted
classification is legislative, not judicial. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line Co., 211 U. S. 210, 226; Keller v. Potomac Electric Power Co., 261 U. S. 428, 440. Cf. People
ex rel. C. P. R. Co. v. Willcox, 194 N. Y. 383, 386; 87
N. E. 517. Whatever the appropriate label, the kind of
order that emerges from a hearing before a body with
power to ordain is one that impinges upon legal rights in
a very different way from the report of a commission
which merely investigates and advises. The traditionary
forms of hearing appropriate to the one body are unknown to the other. What issues from the Tariff Commission as a report and recommendation to the President,
may be accepted, modified or rejected. If it happens to
be accepted, it does not bear fruit in anything that
trenches upon legal rights. No one has a legal right to
the maintenance of an existing rate or duty. Neither
the action of Congress in fixing a new tariff nor that of
the President in exercising his delegated power is subject
to impeachment if the prescribed forms of legislation have
been regularly observed. It is very different, however,
when orders are directed against public service corporations limiting their powers in the transaction of their
business. They may be challenged in the courts if the
effect is to reduce the charges to the point of confiscation.
Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466. They may be challenged
for other reasons when they are without evidence supporting them and are merely arbitrary edicts. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n v. Union Pac. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541,
547; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S.
457, 481; Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Dep't Public Works,
268 U. S. 39, 44; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 274 U. S. 344, 351. Cf. Sharfman, The

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

319

Opinion of the Court.

Interstate Commerce Commission, vol. II, p. 424. The
"hearing" that such commissions are to give must be
adapted to the consequences that are to follow, to the
attack and the review to which their orders will be subject.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 93; St. Louis-S. W. Ry. Co. v. Interstate
Commerce Comm'n, 264 U. S. 64; Atchison, T. & S. F.
R. Co. v. United States, 284 U. S. 248. The Commerce
Act, as it stands today, and kindred statutes-in the states,
are instinct with the recognition of a duty to give a hearing of such a kind that the courts will understand why a
Commission has acted as it has if their supervisory powers
are afterwards invoked for enforcement or revision. No
such inference is to be drawn from the act before us now.
The tokens of intention set down in this opinion have a
force in combination that is denied to any one of them
alone. They impel us to the holding that within the
meaning of this act the "hearing" assured to one affected
by a change of duty does not include a privilege to ransack
the records of the Commission, and to subject its confidential agents to an examination as to all that they have
learned. There was no thought to revolutionize the practice of investigating bodies generally and of this one in
particular. Hearings had once been optional. By the
new statute they became mandatory. The form remained
the same.
2. Our second question must now be answered: If
something less is due than inspection without limit, is
there a minimum of disclosure without which the purpose
of a hearing will be thwarted altogether, and was this
minimum attained by what was done by the Commission
here?
The argument for the petitioner portrays the American
producer in the position of a plaintiff tendering, an issue
to others which they are called upon to meet like defendants in a lawsuit. The picture is misleading, for in truth

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 Us.

there is no lawsuit nor anything akin to it. See the testimony of Mr. Glassie in the investigation by the Senate
(U. S. Senate Hearings, p. 516). The Commission, in
conducting an investigation, is free to act on its own motion. Indeed it often does so. If it is moved by some one
else, the investigation is still its own, the request amounting to a mere suggestion which it is free, in its discretion,
to accept or to reject. There is nothing in its rules
whereby applicants are placed under a duty to state the
figures of their costs, still less to divide the total into items.
On the contrary, the rules provide that "an application
is not required to be in any special form." It " must state
the name, legal residence, business address, occupation
and business connection of the applicant, and contain a
short and simple statement of the relief sought and the
grounds therefor." If it is deemed to be insufficient, "the
Commission may permit the applicant to amend the same
or to submit evidence orally or in writing." A statement
by an applicant that it has been compelled to close its
plant because it has been unable to hold its own against
foreign competition by reason of disparity of costs in this
country and abroad will present a hardship to be investigated if the Commission believes that investigation will
be helpful. Certainly there is nothing in any provision of
the statute whereby the opponents of an increase may insist that something more than this be shown before they
may be called upon to come forward and oppose.
The difficulty is not fully met, however, when we hold
that a statement of the costs is not required at the beginning to set the process of investigation going. The question remains whether a statement in some form, even
though fragmentary and stripped of detail, may be necessary later on. The persons affected by the change of duty
are entitled to a hearing, and this involves, so it is said,
such a modicum of information, such a disclosure of the
costs in the form of percentages of the market price or

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

321

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise, as to give notice of the ultimate facts to be
contested and overcome. What is required in that view
is not a bill of particulars, nor a disclosure of the evidence, but a definition of the issue which is to be the
theme of the debate.
The argument thus stated ignores the historic function
of the Commission as the adviser of the President or Congress in the business of legislation, and views it as an
arbiter between adverse parties litigant. This is to subject its action to the test of an unreal analogy. If the
Commission is under a duty to make disclosure of the costs
at all, the origin of the duty and its measure are to be
found, we think, in this, that since a hearing is required,
there is a command by implication to do whatever may
be necessary to make the hearing fair. A duty so indeterminate must vary in form and shape with all the changing circumstances whereby fairness is conditioned. The
appeal is to the sense of justice of administrative officers,
clothed by the statute with discretionary powers. Their
resolve is not subject to impeachment for unwisdom without more. It must be shown to be arbitrary.
Arbitrary in this instance it certainly was not, and that
for several reasons.
(a) The Commission did not withhold disclosure from
the petitioner with any sinister purpose to make the hearing ineffective. It was moved by the belief that a way
could not be found of stating the costs without identifying
them with the business of a particular producer. In so
acting it conformed to its own precedents and practice,
and to those of such commissions generally. If it was
under a duty to give a hearing similar to one in court, it
was bound to expose everything, details as well as sum-,
maries. There was then no middle ground. If it was
under a duty to give the kind of hearing that was fair in
all the circumstances, it was free to shape its course within
reasonable limits by its own conception of the promptings

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

of policy and fairness. It would have kept within the
statute even though it had made the hearings private and
had refrained from the publication of anything, either the
records of its agents or the testimony of witnesses. 62
Cong. Rec., pt. 11, p. 11,232. Instead, it made the hearings public, and exposed everything to view except only
when publication was likely in its judgment to result in
hardship or injustice. Ninth Annual Report, United
States Tariff Commission, p. 13; see the Rules of the Commission quoted infra in this opinion. There- is indeed a
possibility that the work of such a body would be seriously
hampered if producers were not made to feel that information which in the thought of many is ranked as confidential would be withheld from prying eyes.! Particularly might that be so when inquiry would have to be
made of manufacturers abroad, not subject to compulsion.'
Business men may exaggerate the importance of secrecy
in matters of this kind. Their sensitiveness is to be
reckoned with, whether it be reasonable or not.
(b) The attack upon the ruling of the Commission as a
denial of a fair hearing in a primary and basic sense is
weakened even more when consideration is directed to
what the petitioner then asked for.
There was no appropriate motion or objection that
brought to the notice of the Commission a claim that
apart from any details there was a certain minimum of
information due to the petitioner which the Commission
was withholding. There is no reason to believe that this
minimum was then an object of desire, or that it would
have been helpful if conceded. The only statement by the
petitioner approaching such a notice was a request that it
be furnished with a complete, and not a deleted, copy of
'See the Reports of the Australian Tariff Board, supra.
'See the minority report of the Investigating Committee of the
Senate under the 1926 resolutions, Senate Report No. 1325, supra,
at p. 7, See also Senate Hearings, p. 1086.

NORWEGIAN NITROGEN CO. v. U. S.
294

323

Opinion of the Court.

the application for relief. The record makes it plain,
however, that included in the application were supporting facts and figures giving the costs in fullest detail. The
petitioner did not suggest at any time that it would be
satisfied with less. On the contrary, its request for a
copy of the application was accompanied or quickly followed by a motion setting forth in five subdivisions the
particulars exacted, and culminating in a demand that
"every particle of evidence" collected by the Commission
be held subject to inspection. That was its attitude, made
manifest in many ways to the members of the board.
That was again its attitude on the petition to the court
for a writ of mandamus to hold the Commission to its
duty. There would be no justice at this late day in invalidating the proceedings for the failure to supply the
petitioner with some average or aggregate which it did
not state that it cared for, which even now is not explained, ansi which, in all likelihood, if given, would have
added little.-to its knowledge.' Business men as a rule
are not wholly in the dark as to the ways of their
competitors.
(c) For still another reason the ruling made by the
Commission was not an arbitrary refusal to give the kind
of hearing that in the circumstances of this particular
inquiry was reasonable and fair.
The unwillingness of the petitioner to submit the costs
of its Norwegian principal, or to make any effort to submit them, has closed its mouth to the complaint that the
refusal to disclose the costs of its American competitor has
nullified the report and the proclamation based upon it.
The Norwegian principal, as we have seen, declined to
give any information to the agents of the Commission
9nd left them to make up their estimate of the foreign
'As to other methods available of ascertaining the cost of production with approximate accuracy, see the testimony before the Senate
Investigating Committee, p. 1086.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

costs from indirect and imperfect sources. The petitioner,
to be sure, was an agent, not a principal, yet it was the
exclusive agent in the United States, and plainly in a relation that gave it influence, if not authority. Not once
during the hearing did it offer to make an effort to obtain
the foreign costs and submit-them to the Commission under a pledge of confidence or otherwise. Its attitude was
one of indifference so complete as to vary hardly at all, or
so at least the Commission might reasonably infer, from
one of purposeful obstruction.
This attitude of obstruction is not to be ignored in determining whether the information to be imparted to the
petitioner was curtailed by the Commission in any arbitrary way. One who seeks equity must do it.
The question in that aspect becomes this: Does justice
require that the costs of a domestic producer shall be
made known to an importer who is unwilling to use reasonable effort to make disclosure of the costs of his principal abroad? A mind neither perverse nor arbitrary in
its judgments might think the answer should be "no."
There is left a final question. The petitioner makes
the point that the Commission by its own rules has
spread its records open to the inspection of interested
parties, and that there was a violation of those rules by
denying an inspection here. The argument may not prevail. A rule of the Commission does indeed provide as
follows: "Parties who have entered appearances shall,
prior to the filing of briefs, have opportunity to examine'
the report of the Commissioner or investigator in charge
of the investigation and also the record except such portiong as relate to trade secrets and processes." The evidence leaves no room for doubt that the exception stated
in this rule has been construed by the Commission as
keeping costs secret for the protection of producers, both
foreign and domestic, unless disclosure is so cloaked that
the identity of the producers will be effectively disguised.

INDIAN TERRITORY OIL CO. v. BOARD.
294

325

Syllabus.

Disguise has been found to be impossible when the producers are but two or three. The phrase "trade secrets
and processes" is not a new one in the law. It occurs in
statutes and judicial decisions as well as in the rule. The
Commission was without competence by any decision it
might make to fix the meaning of the phrase as used by
Congress or the courts. It had power, however, to interpret its own rules and any phrase contained in them.
Evans v. Backer, 101 N. Y. 289, 292; 4 N. E. 516; Duncan's Heirs v. United States, 7 Pet. 435, 451, 452.

This it

has done by an administrative practice too clear to be
misread.
Affirmed.
The judgment is
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

is of the opinion that the

judgment should be reversed.
INDIAN TERRITORY ILLUMINATING OIL CO. v.
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION OF TULSA COUNTY.CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 356. Argued January 17, 18, 1933.-Decided February 13, 1933.
1. The owner of oil extracted by him from restricted Indian lands
under leases approved by the Secretary of the Interior, is not
immune from taxation of it under the general laws of the State
for ad valorem taxation, when it has been removed from the
restricted lands and stored in the owner's tanks and the Indians
have no further interest in it. P. 326.
2. There is a recognized distinction between a non-discriminatory tax
upon the property of an agent of government, albeit the property
is used in, or has relation to, the business of the agency-where
there is only a remote, if any, influence upon the exercise of the
functions of government-and a tax which is deemed to impose a
direct burden upon the exertion of governmental powers. P. 327.
159 Okla. 15, 13 P. (2d) 585; 159 Okla. 6, 14 P. (2d) 929, affirmed.
* Together with No. 357, Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co. v.
Board of County Commissioners of Payne County.

