HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY.
Syllabus.

406

resented part of the admitted profits and was subject to
taxation. No positive provision in the statute required
that it be spread over subsequent years, and we think
there was nothing illegal or oppressive in treating this as
if an actual payment. The taxpayer has been treated
more leniently than if required to report upon the accrual
basis. The Regulations were not contrary to any positive
provisions of the statute and, as said by the Board of
Tax Appeals, were "both equitably and legally sound."
Since 1926, the Board has consistently upheld the Commissioner's regulations as to profits on installment sales.
Frank J. Bosshardt, 4 B. T. A. 1262; Dalriada Realty Co.,
Inc., 5 B. T. A. 905; Pacheco Creek Orchard Co., 12
B. T. A. 1358; Katherine H. Watson, 20 B. T. A. 270;
Fifty-three West Seventy-second Street, Inc., 23 B. T. A.
164; Metropolitan Properties Corp., 24 B. T A. 220.
And the Revenue Acts of 1928 and 1932 substantially
reenacted the pertinent provision of the Act of 1926.
The Commissioner and Board of Tax Appeals have
practical knowledge of the intricate details incident to
tax problems, and their determination in circumstances
like those under consideration here should be given effect
when not clearly contrary to the will of Congress.
Reversed.
ARTHUR C. HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY ET AL.,
FORMER COLLECTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 537.

Argued February 16, 17, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. Judgment in a law case tried without a jury pursuant to Rev.
Stats. §§ 649 and 700 (28 U. S. C. §§ 773, 875), is not reviewable
where no special findings of fact were made, where no rulings in the
progress of the trial were excepted to at the time and-Iduly presented by bill of exceptions, and where the assignments of error

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

present no substantial question on the pleadings but are directed
to the reasons set forth in an opinion of the judge for ordering the
judgment. Fleischmann Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 349. P. 418.
2. Affirmance by this Court of a judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals upon the ground that no substantial question was presented to that court by the assignments of error, does not imply
approval of that court's decision of other questions, not properly
before it. P. 419.
60 F. (2d) 97; 61 id. 365, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 596, to review the affirmance of
a judgment against the present petitioner in an action
to recover from two former collectors of internal revenue
an alleged overpayment of income taxes.

Mr. 0. Walker Taylor for petitioner.
Mr. Paul D. Miller, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Francis H. Horan, and Henry C.
Clark were on the brief, for respondents.
Mr. Daniel Austin Shirk, by leave of Court, filed a brief
as amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner sued respondents in the United States District Court for Massachusetts to recover alleged overpayment of taxes. After waiver of trial by jury, the judge
heard the cause upon the pleadings and evidence and gave
judgment for the respondents. The reasons therefor were
stated in an opinion dealing generally with the issues of
law and fact. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this
judgment and undertook to support its action by an opinion. 60 F. (2d) 97. A duly authenticated bill of exceptions setting forth the evidence and the proceedings at the
trial is in the record; also, appropriate assignments of

HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY.
415

Opinion of the Court.

error. No assignment makes substantial claim of error
based upon .the pleadings alone.
The Circuit Court of Appeals rightly found"There was a waiver of a jury trial and the case was
heard by the judge without a jury. A request for findings
of fact and rulings of law was made by the plaintiff, but
no special findings were made nor were the requested rulings of law either made or refused, nor were any exceptions
to a refusal to rule as requested 'taken in the course of
the trial.' So far as any rulings of law were made 'in the
course of the trial,' with one exception they were in favor
of the plaintiff, and though an exception was allowed in
this instance, it is not relied upon in the assignments of
error. . . . The findings of fact are general, and no rulings of the court were excepted to 'during the course of
the trial,' which are relied on. Exceptions, following an
order of judgment, to alleged rulings in a written opinion
of the judge assigning reasons for ordering a judgment for
either party, are not rulings in the course of the trial. ...
Each of the assignments of error in this case relates either
to matters of fact or to conclusions of law embodied in
the opinion. These are not open to review, as there were
no special findings of fact and no exceptions to rulings on
matters of law were taken during the course of the trial
and duly preserved by a bill of exceptions, and no questions of law favorable to the plaintiff are raised on the
pleadings."
Notwithstanding the condition of the record, the appellate court proceeded to discuss sundry questions beyond
the pleadings, not pertinent because not properly raised,
and decided them against the petitioner. The challenged
judgment was rightly affirmed; but this should have been
done upon the ground that the assignments of error presented for consideration no substantial question of law
or fact.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The Revised Statutes, as amended, provide"Sec. 649. Issues of fact in civil cases in any circuit
[district] court may be tried and determined by the court,
without the intervention of a jury, whenever the parties,
or their attorneys of record, file with the clerk a stipulation in writing waiving a jury. The finding of the court
upon the facts, which may be either general or special,
shall have the same effect as the verdict of a jury."
(U. S. C., Title 28, § 773.)
"Sec. 700. When an issue of fact in any civil cause in
a circuit [district] court is tried and determined by the
court without the intervention of a jury, according to
section six hundred and forty-nine, the rulings of the
court in the progress of the trial of the cause, if excepted
to at the time, and duly presented by a biil of exceptions,
may be reviewed by the Supreme Court [Circuit Court of
Appeals] upon a writ of error or upon appeal; and when
the finding is special the review may extend to the determination of the sufficiency of the facts found to support
the judgment." (U. S. C., Title 28, § 875.)
In Fleischmann Co. v. 'United States, 270 U. S. 349,
355, 356, 357, this Court construed and applied the above
sections, and the doctrine there approved is decisive of the
present cause. Through Mr. Justice Sanford, we said"The opinion of the trial judge, dealing generally with
the issues of law and fact and giving the reasons for his
conclusion, is not a special finding of facts within the
meaning of the statute. . . . And it is settled by repeated decisions, that in the absence of special findings,
the general finding of the court is conclusive upon all matters of fact, and prevents any inquiry into the conclusions
of law embodied therein, except in so far as the rulings
during the progress of the trial were excepted to and duly
preserved by bill of exceptions, as required by the statute. . . . To obtain a review by an appellate court of
the conclusions of law a uarty must either obtain from the

HARVEY CO. v. MALLEY.
415

Opinion of the Court.

trial court special findings which raise the legal propositions, or present the propositions of law to the court and
obtain a ruling on them ...
"These rules necessarily exclude from our consideration all the questions presented by the assignment of
errors except those arising on the pleadings. All the
others relate either to matters of fact or to conclusions
of law embodied in the general finding. These are not
open to review, as there were no special findings of fact
and no exceptions to the rulings on matters of law were
taken during the progress of the trial or duly preserved
by a bill of exceptions. The defindants offered no exceptions to the rulings of the court until after the writ
of error had issued, transferring jurisdiction of the case
to the Court of Appeals. And the recitals in the subsequent 'bills of exceptions' that the exceptions, then for
the first time presented, were to be taken as made before
the entry of the judgment are nugatory. A bill of exceptions is not valid as to any matter which was not excepted to at the trial. . . . And it cannot incorporate
into the record nunc pro tune as of the time when an
exception should have been taken, one which in fact was
not then taken.
"The statute, however, relates only to those rulings
of law which are made in the course of the trial, and by
its terms has no application to the preliminary rulings of
the District Judge made, in the exercise of his general
authority, before the issues are submitted to him for hearing under the statutory stipulation. Such rulings on the
pleadings and the sufficiency of the complaint are therefore subject to review as in any other case, itdependently
of the statute."
And see Wilson v. Merchants' Loan & Trust Co., 183
U. S. 121, 127; Martinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U. S. 670.
As the assignments of error presented no substantial
point based upon the pleadings, and the discussion of the
court related to points not properly before it, affirmance

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

288 U.S.

of the judgment by us does not indicate approval of what
was said in respect of those points.

Affirmed.

McDONNELL v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 330. Argued January 17, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.
1. Paragraph (e) of § 278 of the Revenue Act of June 2, 1924, providing: "This section shall not (1) authorize the assessment of a
tax or the collection thereof by distraint or by a proceeding in
court if at the time of the enactment of this Act such assessment,
distraint or proceeding was barred by the period of limitation then
in existence, or (2) affect any assessment made or distraint or proceeding in court begun, before the enactment of this Act," does not
render invalid waivers executed after the date of the Act, with respect to income taxes, the assessment and collection of which had
become barred before that date. P. 422.
2. The purpose of paragraph (d) of § 250 of the Revenue Act of 1921,
and paragraph (c) of § 278 of the Revenue Act of 1924, was not
to grant authority for waivers or to limit their effect, but to remove
doubt of their validity by expressly recognizing them. P. 423.
3. Paragraph (e) of § 278 of the 1924 Act does not qualify paragraph (c). P. 424.
75 Ct. Cls. 155; id. 186; 59 F. (2d) 290, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 589, to review a judgment rejecting claims for the recovery of money paid under income
tax assessments.

Mr. Robert Ash for petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Rugg, with whom Solicitor
General Tlhacher and Messrs. Whitney North ,Seymour,
H. Brian Holland, and Erwin N. Griswold were on the
brief, for the United States.
Messrs. Fred A. Woodis and FrancisR. Las4, by leave
of Court, filed a brief as amici curiae.
*

Together with No. 331, Truda v. United States.

