ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
Syllabus.

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY OF
NEW YORK ET. AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 227.

Argued December 15, 16, 1932.-Decided January 23, 1933.

1. A stockholder, by becoming such, impliedly agrees that in respect
of its internal affairs the corporation is governed by the laws of the
State of its organization. P. 130.
2. It is settled doctrine that a court-state or federal--sitting in one
State will as a general rule decline to interfere with or control by
injunction or otherwise the management of the internal affairs of a
corporation organized under the laws of another State, but will
leave controversies as to such matters to the courts of the State
of the domicile. P. 130.
3. Courts will exercise this discretion whenever considerations of convenience, efficiency and justice point to the courts of the State of
the domicile as appropriate tribunals for the determination of the
particular case. P. 131.
4. Stockholders of a New Jersey corporation brought suit in New
York against the corporation, some of its directors and other persons to enjoin the issuing and selling of stock to the officers, directors and certain employees of the corporation, and to annul the
shares issued. Only a few of the company's directors were residents of New York; and only a few of the stock-allottees were
before the court, though the conditions entitling all to receive the
stock had been complied with and presumably some of it had been
delivered. The corporation had its principal business office in New
York and had its registered office in New Jersey, where stockholders' meetings were held, and had property in New Jersey and
did business there and in other States and countries. The controversy depended on a construction of statutes of New Jersey which
had not been passed upon by New Jersey courts and involved
grave doubts. The New Jersey law afforded a ready and complete
remedy through an action in rem and service by publication. Held:
(1) That the corporation could not be regarded as having been
organized in New Jersey to do all of its business elsewhere, and
could not b,- treated as a local concern in New York. P. 131.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

(2) That the case was within the general rule (par. 2, supra),
and the District Court did not abuse its discretion in dismissing it
without prejudice. P. 132.
60 F. (2d) 114, reversed.
CERTIORARI'

to review the reversal of a decree dismiss-

ing the bills in two stockholders suits, which were begun
in the Supreme Court of New York and removed to the
District Court and consolidated. The opinion here directs that the decree of the District Court, 60 F. (2d) 106,
be reinstated.
Mr. Richard Reid Rogers pro se. Mr. Evan Shelby was
on the brief.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Mr. Nathan L. Miller
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, plaintiff below, owns 200 shares of the common stock of The American Tobacco Company which he
acquired prior.to the passage of c. 175, NewJersey Laws,
1920, that is here involved. He also owns 400 shares of
common stock B. He brought two suits in the supreme
court of New York: one against the tobacco company and
some of its directors, the other against the trust company,
Junius Parker and others. On application of defendants
both were removed to the federal court for the southern
district of that State. The first was discontinued as to
some defendants and the cases were consolidated. The defendants before the court are the two companies, Parker,
and five of the 17 directors of the tobacco company including its president, ene of its vice presidents and its
secretary.
The tobacco company was organized under the laws of
New Jersey, and in that State maintains its "principal
'287 U. S. 586.

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

and registered office " as designated in its charter, holds
the stockholders' meetings and does a substantial amount
of business. It is authorized by the laws of New York to
do business there and has in New York City its principal
place of business where its directors usually meet, its
executives have their offices and most of its records are
kept. It carries on business in that and many other States
and also in a number of foreign countries.
The grievances alleged by plaintiff concern the issue,
allotment and sale of stock of the tobacco company.
June 25, 1930, the boa.d of directors adopted a resolution
recommending the reduction by one-half of the par value
and the doubling of the number of shares of its common
stock and common stock B. It had outstanding 526,997
shares of preferred stock, and, as a result of action in accordance with that recommendation, 1,609,696 shares of
common and. 3,077,320 shares of common B. And by
another resolution the board advised approval by the
stockholders of a plan for the issue and sale of conmon
stock B to employees pursuant to c. 175, New Jersey
Laws, 1920.1 The plan submitted accords to such em'Section 1 of that Act provides for the participation of employees
in purchase of stock, profits, welfare work and management of any
corporation organized under the laws of the State, and declares: "Any
stock corporation . . . may, upon such terms and conditions as may
be determined in the manner hereinafter designated, provide and
carry out a plan or plans for any or all of the following purposes:
(a) The issue or the purchase and sale of its capital stock to any or
all of its employees and those actively engaged in the conduct of its
business or to trustees on their behalf, and the payment for such stock
in installments or at one time with or without the right to vote thereon
pending payment therefor in full, and for aiding any such employees
and said other persons in paying for such stock by contributions,
compensation for services, or otherwise." And § 2 (b) provides:
".. . the board of directors shall first formulate such plan or plans
and pass a resolution declaring that in its opinion the adoption thereof
is advisable, and shall call a meeting of the stockholders to take

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

ployees and others actively engaged in the conduct of the
business as may be selected an opportunity to purchase
stock "by way of additional compensation for services to
be rendered," and allots for subscription shares of unissued stock. The board may offer stock to such persons in
the service at prices not less than par and .upon other
terms and conditions determined by the president pursuant to authority granted him for that purpose by the
board. No employee or person actively engaged in the
conduct of the business of the corporation or its subsidiaries shall be deemed ineligible to its benefits by reason
of being also a director of the corporation or of any of its
subsidiaries or of holding any office therein.
On July 28, 1930, the stockholders adopted the plan.
And January 28, 1931, the board autho-ized a sale of
56,712 shares of common stock B at par value of $25 per
share. It directed that there be furnished to the president, to be considered in determining to whom the stock
should be allotted for purchase, a list showing the services
rendered and, having regardk to the value of the same,
the rating on a percentage basis given to each together
with the total amount of his compensation for 1930. It
recommended that the basis of distribution should be the
number of shares having par value equal to one-third of
that year's compensation to each allottee rated at 100 per
cent. and correspondingly less to those having lower ratings. And there was accorded to each of 535 employees,
including directors and others active in the business, the
right to subscribe for the new stock on that basis. All
action thereon. . . If two-thirds in interest of each class of stockholders present at said meeting and voting shall vote in favor of any
such plan or any modification thereof, the said plan shall thereupon
become operative." And that section gives to any dissenting stockholder the right upon surrender to receive from the company the
appraised value of any stock that was acquired before the passage of
the Act.

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

the shares allotted were sold at $25 for cash to the trust
company. The trust company allowed each allottee to
subscribe at the same price. At that time it was worth
$112. The agreement stated that this was by way of additional compensation for service to be rendered between
January 31 and December 31, 1931, that until the end
of the year no allottee could take up his stock, that he
was entitled to have dividends applied on the purchase
price and that if he should terminate his employment before the ;-nd of the year the trustees were to decide whether
he should have his allotment.
The complaint attacked the transaction upon the following grounds: The directors being disqualified by
reason of their interest as allottees, the plan was not passed
by a valid vote or adopted as required by c. 175. The
subsequent vote of the stockholders required by the statute
to be predicated upon action by the board, was likewise
invalid. The plan was ultra vires in that the allotment
"by way of additional compensation for services to be
rendered" violated c. 195, New Jersey Laws, 1917. Under
the company's charter and the statutes of New Jersey§ 224, General Corporation Law as added by § 16 of c.
318, Laws 1926---every stockholder had the right according to the number of his shares to have pro rata distribution of the stock in question. And the complaint prayed
decree that the defendants be enjoined from carrying out
the plan, that the stock be declared void and canceled,
and that the defendants, other than the tobacco company, be held for costs and damages sustained by that
company.
Four defenses were set up: Plaintiff failed to comply
with Equity Rule 27. The stockholders including plaintiff ratified the allotments to the directors. The suit is
an attempt to regulate the internal affairs of a corporation
foreign to New York, and the United States district court
sitting therein should decline to take jurisdiction. The

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

allotments were fair and reasonable and were made in
accordance with the company's by-laws and the statutes
of New Jersey. Plaintiff moved for an order striking out
the defenses as insufficient and for a decree in accordance
with the prayer of the complaint or, in the alternative,
for an injunction pendente lite preventing the carrying
out of the plan.
The district court filed an opinion [60 F. (2d) 106] in
which it said:
" In the present case, the validity of the shares sought
to be cancelled depends primarily upon the interpretation
and effect of the act of 1920. The directors cited this
statute as their authority for the plan when they formulated it and have all along insisted that the plan is in
conformity with the statute. The plaintiff takes the position that the statute is not applicable and has been used
by the directors merely a& a cover for a raid upon the
corporate treasury for their own profit. In addition,
plaintiff submits that two other statutes, that of 1917
and that of 1926, must be taken as limiting the operation
of the 1920 act. It is obvious that the case presents not
merely questions of fact but questions of some complexity
under the New Jersey laws. There seem to be no decisions of the New Jersey courts to serve as a guide in the
proper construction and possible interrelation of these
statutes. The legality of the corporate proceedings which
resulted in the issuance of this stock is peculiarly a matter
for determination in the first instance by the New Jersey
courts. It may be noted that the American Tobacco
Company is not a local enterprise. While its chief office
is said -tobe here and it unquestionably carries on business
here, its activities are known to be world-wide. It has a
New Jersey charter; it refers to the New Jersey office as
its principal office; it holds its stockholders' meetings
there. It is not a resident corporation in any sense of
the word."

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

And it entered judgment denying the motion and that "in
the exercise of this Court's discretion, each of the bills
of complaint herein be and the same are hereby dismissed,
without prejudice to the enforcement of the rights of
plaintiff, if any, in the courts of New Jersey."
The Circuit Court of Appeals, 60 F. (2d) 114, dealing
with plaintiff's contentions before it, held that the plan
was authorized, that the stock was lawfully issued under
New Jersey statutes, and that for the reasons given in
the opinionr the bill was properly dismissed. A dissenting opinion suggests that the plan was not sufficiently in
detail to comply with the New Jersey statute. The court
affirmed the judgment appealed from, and upon its mandate the district court entered a decree that the bills of
complaint be dismissed with costs.
Among the points and contentions raised and pressed
by plaintiff in his petition for certiorari and argument
here are the following: The plan is not definite and formulated as required by c. 175. That chapter as construed below is repugnant to the contract clause of the
federal Constitution. The decision that the plaintiff
failed to comply with Equity Rule 27 is contrary to
c. 175. Chapter 195, New Jersey Laws 1917, does not
permit the issue of stock to employees for services to be
rendered. The decree of the district court declining to
exerci e jurisdiction is contrary to decisions of this court
and in conflict with the decision bf the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit -in Williamson v. Missouri-Kansas Pipe Line Co., 56 F. (2d) 503.
The authorization, allotment and sale of the shares -in
question involved the proportionate ownership of stockholders and their rights inter sese. Unquestionably the
steps taken and proposed to formulate and carry out the
plan constitute the conduct and management of the internal affairs of the tobacco company. The controversy is
solely between the plaintiff and other stockholders not

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

participating in the distribution on one side and the purchasers of the new stock, the corporation, its directors
and officers on the other. When, by acquisition of his
stock, plaintiff became a member of the corporation, he,
like every other shareholder, impliedly agreed that in
respect of its internal affairs the company was to be governed by the laws of the State in which it was organized.
His rights, whatever the tribunal chosen for their vindication, are to be determined upon the ascertainment and
proper application of New Jersey law.
It has long been settled doctrine that a court-state or
federal-sitting in one State will as a general rule decline
to interfere with or control by injunction or otherwise the
management of the internal affairs of a corporation organized under the laws of another State but will leave controversies as to such matters to the courts of the State
of the domicile. Wallace v. Motor Products Corp., 25 F.
(2d) 655, 658. Chicago Title & Trust Co. v. Newman,
187 Fed. 573,-576. Eberhardv. Northwestern Mutual Life
Ins. Co., 210 Fed. 520, 522. Powell v. United Association,
240 N. Y. 616; 148 N. E. 728. Sauerbrunn v. Hartford
Life Ins. Co., 220 N. Y. 363, 371; 115 N. E. 1001. Jackson
v. Hooper, 76 N. J. Eq. 592, 604; 75 Atl. 568. Guilford
v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 59 Minn. 332, 340; 61
N. W. 324. Kimball v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., 157
Mass. 7; 31 N. E. 697. Hogue v. American Steel Foundries, 247 Pa. 12, 15; 92 Atl. 1073. Babcock v. Farwell,
245 Ill. 14, 33, et seq.; 91 N. E. 683. Clark v. Life Association, 14 App. D. C. 154, 179-180. North State Copper
& Gold Mining Co. v. Field, 64 Md. 151; 20 Atl. 1039. Cf.
BurnriteCoal Co. v. Riggs, 274 U. S. 208, 212-213. While
the district court had jurisdiction to adjudge the rights of
the parties, it does not follow that it was bound to exert
that power. Canada Malting Co. v. Paterson Co., 285
U. S. 413, 422, and authorities cited. It was free in the

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

Opinion of the Court.

exercise of a sound discretion to decline to pass upon the
merits of the controversy and to relegate plaintiff to an
appropriate, forum. Langnes v. Green, 282 U. S. 531,
535, 541. Heine v. New York Life Ins. Co., 50 F. (2d)
382. Obviously no definite rule of general application can
be formulated by which it may be determined under what
circumstances a court will assume jurisdiction of stockholders' suits relating to the conduct of internal affairs of
foreign corporations. But it safely may be said that jurisdiction will be declined whenever considerations of convenience, efficiency and justice point to the courts of the
State of the domicile as appropriate tribunals for the determination of the particular case. Cohn v. Mishkofl
Costello Co., 256 N. Y. 102, 105; 175 N. E. 529. Travis v.
Knox Terpezone Co., 215 N. Y. 259, 263; 109 N. E. 250.
Kimball v. St. Louis & S. F. Ry. Co., supra.
The complaint shows that as of its date seven directors
of the tobacco company were not residents of New York.
Only six allottees are before the court. The others, over
525, are not mentioned in the complaint. It appears from
the answer that many of them are outside New York, and
it may be inferred that a large number of them reside in
the other States and countries in which the company does
business. At the time, February 23, 1932, of the dismissal
of the bill the services of the employees, for which the
allotments constitute part compensation, had been fully
performed and they were entitled to have and presumably
they, or at least some of them, had secured the delivery of
the shares so allotted to them. As the tobacco company,
in addition to its registered office, has property, operates
directly or through subsidiaries branch factories in New
Jersey and carries on business there and in other States
and countries, it may not be deemed to have been organized in that State as a mere matter of convenience for the
purpose of carrying on all its business in another State

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

or be deemed in New York to be a local concern. This
case is wholly unlike Williamson v. Missouri-KansasPipe
Line Co., supra, relied on by plaintiff.
The determination of plaintiff's contentions requires not
only the ascertainment of the true meaning and intent of
c. 175 of New Jersey Laws, 1920, but also its constitutional
validity. Its provisions have never been construed by the
New Jersey courts and they or their like are not familiar
in the statute law governing corporations organized in
other States. And other New Jersey statutes among
which are c. 195, Laws of 1917, and c. 318, § 16, Laws of
1926, are claimed by plaintiff to have an important bearing upon this case. But the courts of that State have had
no occasion to consider the interrelation, if any, between
them and c. 175 pursuant to which the stock in question
purports to have been issued to employees. A mere inspection of the New Jersey statutes directly involved suggests grave doubts as to their proper application to the
facts in this case and the difference of opinion expressed
below confirms that impression.
So far as concerns the cancellation of the allotted shares,
and other relief sought by plaintiff, the situs of the stock is
in New Jersey and all questions relating to the validity
of the plan, authorization, issue, allotment and sale of the
same may be conveniently and effectively determined
in New Jersey courts, the authoritative and final interpreters of the statutes of that State. A proceeding in rem
is authorized, process therein may be served by publication and a decree, final and binding upon all, canceling
or sustaining the stock may readily be enforced. New
Jersey Practice Act of 1903, § 84. Jellenik v. Huron Copper Co., 177 U. S. 1, 13. Andrews v. Guayaquil & Quito
Ry. Co., 69 N. J. Eq. 211; 60 Atl. 568. Holmes v.
Camp, 219 N. Y. 359; 114 N. E. 841. The facts and circumstances disclosed by the record clearly bring this case
within the general rule and abundantly justify the exer-

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

cise of discretion on the part of the district court in dismissing the bills of complaint without prejudice. As the
Circuit Court of Appeals considered and decided the
merits of the case, its judgment is reversed, the judgment
of the district court entered upon its mandate is vacated
and the case will be remanded to the district court with
directions to reinstate the earlier judgment dismissing the
bills of complaint without prejudice.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE STONE, dissenting.

I think the Court should decide this case on its merits
in favor of the petitioner.
Respondent, the American Tobacco Company, organized under the laws of New Jersey, is a large and prosperous corporation, engaged in the manufacture and distribution of cigarettes and other forms of tobacco. It has
upwards of 40,000 stockholders. At the commencement
of this suit it had a board of 16 directors, including a president, five vice presidents, a secretary and a treasurer, all
actively engaged in its management. For many years these
officers have received large annual fixed salaries, as well
as large annual cash profit-sharing bonuses paid under
a by-law of the company, adopted in 1912. See Rogers v.
Hill, 60 F. (2d) 109. In the year 1930, the profit-sharing
bonus of the president, added to his fixed salary of $168,000, gave him a total compensation of over $1,010,000,
which was further augmented by a special "credit" of
$273,470. In the same year, four of the five vice presidents received an aggregate annualt salary and bonus of
more than $2,077,000. In addition, a number of stock
subscription plans have from time to time been put into
operation by the directors, without authority of the charter or by-laws of the corporation, or the knowledge or ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

proval of its stockholders, by which they largely benefited.
In that of 1926, the respondent Hill, the president and
also a director of the company, acquired 8,000 shares of
common stock, and other directors, who are respondents
here, received substantial amounts. In that of 1929, one
year before the transactions now complained of, 46,500 of
51,750 shares of common stock, purchased by the corporation and set aside for the purpose, were sold to the corporate directors at $47 per share less than market value.
Convenient arrangements were made for postponed payment of the purchase price. Respondents received 23,050
shares, of which the president received 15,050.
On January 28, 1931, a new allotment of stock was made,
which is the subject of this litigation. On that day, the
Board of Directors (the president and officers constituting a majority of those in attendance) considered and
passed upon the adequacy of the compensation which its
members were then receiving for their services to the corporation, and the necessity of conferring further benefits
on themselves in order to insure the continuance of those
services. Having resolved these questions in their own
favor, they proceeded to award additional benefits in the
form of the privilege to subscribe to unissued common
stock B of the corporation, at a small fraction of its market value. By resolution of that date, they put into effect
a stock subscription plan by which 56,712 shares of unissued common stock B of the corporation were distributed
in accordance with recommendations made by the president. Of this number 32,370, more than half, were allotted
to the directors, of which 13,440 were allotted to the president. The remainlng 24,342 shares were allotted in relatively small amounts to 525 employees. None of the
recipients was of lower rank than factory subassistant.
Four hundred and seventy-three received allotments of
less than 100 shares each, the great majority receiving
'rom 15 to 50 shares. The stated consideration for issue

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

of the stock was a subscription price of $25 per share,
the par value, and the services of the allottee, not
specifically described, to be rendered to the American
Tobacco Company for the remainder of the year.
The certificates of stock were to be delivered to the
respondents, the Guaranty Trust Company of New York
and an individual, as trustees. They were authorized to
borrow money upon them.to the extent of $25 per share,
in order to effect immediate payment of the subscription
price to the Tobacco Company, to apply dividends received on account of the purchase price to be paid by the
allottees and to deliver the certificates to them after the
close of the year, upon payment in full of their subscriptions. They were given discretion to waive performance of the stipulated service by any allottee and in the
event that the subscriber was discharged or resigned from
the employ of the company within the year, to cancel
the subscription agreement or not, as they pleased.
On the day of the resolution allotting the stock, its
market price was $112 per share, more than four times the
subscription price. It was then paying, and has ever since
paid, dividends at the rate of $5 per year, sufficient to
pay the subscription price in five years. Valuing the subscription privilege by the difference between the subscription price and the market value of the shares, the president
received by the allotment the equivalent of $1,169,280,
in addition to his annual compensation of more than
$1,000,000. The stock subscription rights awarded the
five vice-presidents, similarly valued, amounted to $1,451,595. That the subscription privilege, accorded for the
avowed purpose of assuring the continuance of these
executives in the company's employ, was then and has
been ever since of great value, upon any theory of valuation, is not questioned.
Conceiving himself aggrieved by this transaction, petitioner, a non-assenting stockholder, brought two suits in

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

the Supreme Court of New York, the state in which he
resides, joining as defendants the American Tobacco
Company, the trustees of the allotted stock, and certain
of the directors, including the president, secretary, treasurer and five vice presidents, one of whom has since died
and two of whom were not served with process. Included
in the relief sought was a decree that the corporation, its
officers and directors be enjoined from carrying out the
stock allotments and that the stock allotted to the directors be surrendered to the Company. On motion of
defendants, the Tobacco Company and a non-resident
director, the causes were removed to the District Court
for Southern New York, on grounds of diversity of citizenship of the parties to a separable controversy, and
there consolidated.
Thus called upon in this suit to account for their
stewardship and to justify their action, the defendants,
the respondents here, place their whole reliance upon a
statute of New Jersey in conformity with which, they contend, they secured, in advance, the authorization of the
stockholders to make the challenged allotments of stock.
Section 1, c. 175, of the New Jersey Laws for 1920,
authorizes any New Jersey corporation to provide and
carry out a plan for "(a) the issue or the purchase and
sale of its capital stock to any or all of its employees and
those actively engaged in the conduct of its business or
to trustees on their behalf . . . and for aiding any such
employees or said other persons in paying for such stock
by contribution, compensation for services or otherwise, . . ." Section 2 (b) provides that where, as in this
case, the corporation has been formed without charter or
by-law provisions authorizing the issuance or the purchase
and sale of stock for such purposes, "the board of directors
shall first formulate such plan or plans and pass a resolution declaring that in its opinion the adoption thereof is
advisable and shall call a meeting of the stockholders to

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

take action thereon . . ." It requires an affirmative vote
of two-thirds in interest of each class of stockholders,
present at the meeting, for the adoption of the plan.
In June, 1930, the directors, purporting to act under
this statute, presented to the stockholders, by notice of
a special meeting, a so-called "plan " under which the
employees of the corporation and those actively engaged
in its business were to be permitted to subscribe to unissued shares of its common stock B. The notice of the
meeting was accompanied by a document designated
Employees' Stock Subscription Plan," and by a copy
of resolutions of the board of directors authorizing the
submission of the plan to the stockholders, proposing a
reduction in the par value of the common stock and the
non-voting common stock B from $50 to $25 per share,
and an ihcrease of the authorized common stock from
1,000,000 to 2,000,000 shares, and of the authorized common stock B from 2,000,000 to 4,000,000 shares, each
stockholder to receive two shares of the new stock for
one of the old. By thus increasing the authorized, unissued shares of common B, stock was to be made available for subscription by employees.
The Employees' Stock Subscription Plan proposed "to
allot for subscription ... by way of additional compensation for services to be rendered, shares of unissued
common stock B . . . to such employees of the corporation and/or its subsidiaries and those actively engaged
in the conduct of its or their business as may be
selected. . ." The prescribed method of execution of the
plan was that "the Board of Directors may, at such time
or times as it may determine . . . offer and allot such
stock for subscription , . . in such amounts and proportions, to such persons; at such prices, not less than the
par value of the shares allotted, payable in full or in such
installments, and upon such other terms and conditions,
all as shall be determined with respect to each offering of

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

stock to each individual pursuant to authority to be
granted by the Board of Directors to the President for
such purpose."
Accompanying the notice of the meeting was a circular
letter by the president to stockholders, in which they were
told of the prosperous condition of the company, that the
purpose of the stock allotment plan was to encourage
those who had made the company's success possible to
continue in its employ, and that it was the expectation of
the Board of Directors, if the progrdm set forth in the
notice of the meeting and accompanying documents
should be approved by stockholders, to declare an extra
dividend of $4 per share on the common stock and common stock B, and to initiate regular quarterly dividends
on the newly authorized shares of common stock and common stock B at the increased annual rate of $5 per share.
The letter closed with a request to sign and return the
enclosed proxy, thereby indicating "your approval of the
proposed steps" and your support of your Company's
management."
Moved, perhaps, by these inducements, the proposal
was approved at the meeting by vote of the requisite number of shares of each class.
No disclosure was made to the stockholders by the officers and directors of the stock subscription plans previously put into operation by them, without authority of
the charter or by-laws or the knowledge and approval of
the stockholders. No disclosure was made of the number or amounts of the annual cash bonuses which had
been paid to the president and vice presidents of the company, under the by-law adopted in 1912, and never, so
far as appears, subsequently mentioned to the stockholders until after the stock allotments here involved. The
only hint of the intention of the management to participate in the proposed Employees' Stock Subscription Plan
was contained in a single sentence appearing in the Plan:

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

"No employee, or person actively engaged in the conduct
of the business of the Corporation, or its subsidiaries, shall
be deemed ineligible to the benefits of the Plan by reason of being also a director of the Corporation or of any
of its subsidiaries or of holding any office therein."
With all these facts presented by the pleadings, the district court, acknowledging its jurisdiction both as a federal
court and a court of equity to decide the cause on its
merits, nevertheless, held that as the suit concerns the
internal affairs of a New Jersey corporation, discretion
should be exercised to dismiss it without prejudice to its
maintenance in the courts of New Jersey. On appeal, the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, Judge
Swan dissenting, considered the merits and upheld the
legality of the stock allotments. The decree of dismissal
was affirmed on the merits and the trial court has entered
a final decree accordingly. This Court now reverses that
judgment, reestablishing the original decree of the trial
Court, on the ground that a proper exercise of judicial
discretion requires that the cause should not be heard.
Thus after approximately two years of litigation in state
and federal courts, all of which could, and I think should,
have decided the case on the merits, the plaintiff must now
start the litigation afresh in the courts of New Jersey.
In determining whether the federal courts should
decline to exercise the jurisdiction conferred on them by
removal, the nature of this controversy and its merits cannot be ignored. I do not stop to consider numerous objections to the stock allotments, urged by petitioner,
which are not without weight. It suffices for present
purposes that no plan of sufficient definiteness to comply
with the New Jersey statute was ever submitted to the
stockholders for their approval; and that even if it be
conceded that a "plan" was approved, the action of the
directors in alloting the stock to themselves, in violation
of their duty as fiduciaries, exceeded the authority con-

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

ferred upon them by the stockholders, and was, therefore,
ultra vires.
The statute directs that the board of directors shall
"first formulate such plan," declare it "advisable," and
call a meeting of stockholders to act on it. Without presenting for the consideration of the stockholders any
workable plan of stock allotment, the directors, in effect,
asked the stockholders to confer plenary authority on
them to formulate a plan and to carry it into execution
without any disclosure of its provisions. After the meeting, as before, no stockholder, not in the confidence of the
directors, knew in what the plan consisted, who were the
persons to participate in it, what principle was to control
their selection or determine the amount of stock they
were to receive, or the price they were to pay. It is a
misuse of words of plain meaning to speak of such a proposal as a "plan," much less a formulated plan for stock
allotment to employees, or as one which, in the form presented to the stockholders, the directors could have pronounced advisable or have carried into operation. It was
no more than an invitation to stockholders to abrogate
the discretion which the statute vested in them to approve a formulated plan, having at least some aspects of
definiteness, and vest in the directors powers which could
be conferred on them only by charter amendment in the
manner prescribed by the statute. The invitation was
accompanied by a skillfully phrased suggestion that it was
necessary to accept it in order to hold the services of employees, and that, if accepted, the directors would cause
new benefits to flow into the pockets of stockholders in
the form of extra and increased dividends. Such a maneuver cannot rightly be regarded as a compliance with the
plain language of the statute, which requires the directors
first to formulate a plan for stock allotment and declare
it advisable, and then to submit it to the stockholders for

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE, J.,

dissenting.

their approval. If it were, it would be difficult to suggest
any conceivable purpose of the statute which could not be
thwarted by a similar procedure.
The respondents stand in no better position, even if we
assume that the proposal submitted to the stockholders
was a formulated plan, within the meaning of the New
Jersey statute. For in that case, authority for the directors' action must be found in the stockholders' approval
of the proposal which they submitted, and we must interpret the proposal and the action taken by the stockholders in terms of their legitimate expectation that the
directors were complying with their duty as fiduciaries and
not dealing with them at arm's length. They were entitled
to read the proposal in the light of the fundamental duty
of directors to derive no profit from their own official action, without the consent of the stockholders, obtained
after full and fair revelation of every circumstance which
might reasonably influence them to withhold their consent. Wardell v. Railroad Co., 103 U. S.651; General Investment Co. v. American Hide & Leather Co., 97 N. J.
Eq. 230, 233; 127 Atl. 659; see United States Steel Corp.
v. Hodge, 64 N. J. Eq. 807, 813; 54 Atl. 1; Globe Woolen
Co. v. Utica Gas & Electric Co., 224 N. Y. 483, 489; 121
N. E. 378; compare Meinhard v. Salmon, 249 N. Y. 458;
164 N. E. 545; Wendt v. Fischer,243 N. Y. 439; 154 N. E.
303. They were entitled to assume that the proposal involved nothing which did not fairly appear on its face
and above all that it was not a cloak for a scheme by which
the directors were to enrich themselves in great amounts
at the expense of the corporation, of whose interests they
were the legal guardians.
The respondents must, therefore, rest their case on the
bare statement in their proposal to the stockholders that
no employee or person actively engaged in the business
of the company "shall be deemed ineligible to the bene-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

fits of the plan," because a director or officer. But it
would be extravagant to say that these words, addressed
by men in the position of trustees to their beneficiaries,
gave warning of the wholesale gratuities which the directors subsequently bestowed upon themselves. No more
extensive authority could be derived from this language
than the disclosure which it made. By consenting that
the directors should be "eligible" to share in a plan
avowedly for the benefit of employees, the stockholders
did not consent that they should be the chief beneficiaries
of their own unrestrained munificence, or that they should
add any new bounties to the unrevealed stock allotments
and bonuses which the directors had previously enjoyed
in secrecy. Even if the stockholders consented that some
of the directors should be eligible to benefit from action
taken by other disinterested directors, they certainly did
not consent that the allotments should be made by a group
of directors who, because of the magnitude of the benefits
they anticipated for themselves, were obviously incapable
of passing an independent and unbiased judgment upon
the propriety of the distribution which they coperated
in making to each other. Respondents' contention that
if the directors were unable to vote on each other's participation no plan could be put into effect under which
a majority of the directors were to participate, is without
weight, for it obviously could be if the statute were followed and the plan revealed in its entirety to the
stockholders.
To surmount these difficulties, respondents point to the
fact that a representative of petitioner stated at the stockholders' meeting that favorable action on the proposal
might result in the issuance of a large amount of stock
to employees, including officers and directors, without adequate consideration, and that this did not induce the
stockholders to express their disapproval. It is unnec-

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

Essary to speculate whether this outcome is to be attributed to the fact that those present, being without the aid
of prevision, regarded the prediction as too improbable to
be credited, or to the fact that those who attended the
meeting were not, for the most part, the stockholders, but
the recipients of their proxies selected by the management
of the corporation for the occasion. A statement made to
them would, as a New Jersey court has said, fall "upon
ears not allowed to hear and minds not permitted to
judge; upon automatons, whose principals are uninformed
of their own injury." See Berendt v. Bethlehem Steel
Corp., 108 N. J. Eq. 148, 151; 154 Atl. 321. In any event
it is enough that neither in the notice of meeting and accompanying documents, which the stockholders saw and
on which they relied, nor at the meeting itself, did the
officers and directors disclose that such was their purpose.
We need not conjecture whether, if the directors had
had the hardihood to disclose in advance the benefits
which they were to award to themselves, the stockholders
would nevertheless have given their approval. Nor is it
important that these directors have successfully managed
the corporation and that under their direction it has
earned large profits for its stockholders. Their business
competence did not confer on them the privilege of making concealed or unauthorized profits or relieve them of
the elementary obligation which the law imposes on all
corporate directors to deal frankly and openly with stockholders in seeking their consent to benefit personally by
reason of their relationship to the corporation.
The directors, having failed to comply with petitioner's
seasonable demand -that they exercise their authority to
bring this suit in the name of the corporation, petitioner
was not required by general equitable principles or by
Equity Rule 27 to appeal to the stockholders before bringing it, as the action complained of here was not one which

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

the stockholders could ratify. Continental Securities Co.
v. Belmont, 206 N. Y. 7, 17; 99 N. E. 138; cf. Delaware&
Hudson Co. v. Albany & Susquehanna R. Co., 213 U. S.
435. Authority of the directors to bestow gratuities
upon themselves in the form of subscription rights
must be found in a plan approved in advance as the statute provides, by two-thirds of each class of stock. If no
plan was presented to stockholders, as I think was the
case, the entire stock issue was ultra vires and cannot be
ratified any more than any other unauthorized disposition
of corporate assets. If the proposal to the stockholders is
regarded as a plan, so far as ordinary employees are concerned, as it plainly does not embrace authority to the
directors to confer such extravagant benefits upon themselves, the result is the same, as to the stock allotted to
the directors.
I cannot agree that a proper exercise of discretion requires us to deny to the petitioner the relief to which he
is so clearly entitled. This is the first time that this
Court has held that a federal court should decline to
hear a case on the ground that it concerns the internal
affairs of a corporation foreign to the state in which it
sits. We may assume, without deciding, that neither a
federal nor a state court of equity will, as a general rule,
undertake to administer the internal affairs of a foreign
corporation. But the case before us is, in this respect,
unlike a suit to dissolve the corporation and wind up its
affairs, Wallace v. Motor Products Corp., 25 F. (2d) 655,
658; Pearce v. Sutherland, 164 Fed. 609; Maguire v.
Mortgage Co. of America, 203 Fed. 858; cf. Burnrite Coal
Co. v. Riggs, 274 U. S. 208, 212; or compel the declaration
of a dividend, Cohn v. Mishkofl Costello Co., 256 N. Y.
102; 175 N. E. 529, or interfere with the election of
officers or the meetings' of shareholders or directors.
Wason v. Buzzell, 181 Mass. 338; 63 N. E. 009; State

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

ex rel. Lake Shore Tel. & Tel. Co. v. De Groat, 109 Minn.
168; 123 N. W. 417; see Travis v. Knox Terpezone Co.,
215 N. Y. 259, 263; 109 N. E. 250.
We are presented with no problem of administration.
The only relief which the petitioner merits on the record
before us or which he asks here is a decree that certain
directors, now before the Court, restore to the treasury
of the corporation, also before the Court, certain shares
of stock alleged to have been illegally issued to them, and
that certificates for the stock now in possession of the
trustees, who are likewise before the Court, be surrendered. There are no more obstacles to the rendition of
an effective decree than in any other case in which a
stockholder seeks reparation for depredations upon the
corporate property committed by directors, some of whom
only are before the Court. Compare Wineburgh v. U. S.
Steam & Street Ry. Advertising Co., 173 Mass. 60;
53 N. E. 145; Ernst v. Rutherford & B. S. Gas Co., 38
App. Div. 388; 56 N. Y. S. 403; Corry v. Barre Granite
& Quarry Co., 91 Vt. 413; 101 Atl. 38; Ganzer v. Rosenfeld, 153 Wis. 442; 141 N. W. 121. The decree will be
completely satisfied by delivery of the certificates, properly endorsed, to the corporation. There is and can be
no suggestion that such a decree cannot be pronounced
and enforced as effectively by the courts in New York as
it could be by those in New Jersey. Cf. American Creosote Works v. Powell, 298 Fed. 417, 419; see Babcock v.
Farwell, 245 Ill. 14, 34; 91 N. E. 683.
The opinion of the Court concedes, as, indeed, the
authorities which it cites show, that the decision does not
rest upon any definite rule of general application. It is
said that jurisdiction will be declined whenever considerations of convenience, efficiency and justice point to the
courts of the state of the corporate domicile as appropriate tribunals for the determination of the particular

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

case. Such considerations are said to require that this
suit be dismissed though the petitioner is thereby subjected to all the hazards of starting his action anew, in
the courts of New Jersey.
To support this conclusion, only two objections to the
maintenance of the suit are suggested in the opinion of
this Court or in that of the district court below. One is
that numerous beneficiaries of the stock allotment, most
of whom are not officers or directors of the corporation,
are not made parties to this suit and presumably can be
reached as a group only by suit in New Jersey. Hence,
the intimation is, if we decide this case and other suits
should subsequently be brought in other jurisdictions,
different results may be reached on the same questions, a
possibility which can be avoided by forcing the petitioner
to bring a single suit in New Jersey. The other objection
is that the Court would be called upon to decide a novel
question of New Jersey law.
As petitioner has chosen to assert demands necessarily

restricted to the stock issued by the directors to themselves, he had no occasion to join as parties the several
hundred lesser employees, the great preponderance of
whom received allotments of less than fifty shares of stock.
Indeed, as the unconscionable conduct of the participating directors, a major factor in this case, would afford no
basis for proceeding against the other allottees, it is by
no means certain that the suit would be cast in any different form if brought in New Jersey.
The somewhat speculative possibility that those of the
participating directors who have not been served with
process in this suit may be called to answer in some other
court and exonerated is of slight importance compared to
the considerations favoring the exercise of jurisdiction.
Petitioner has chosen to bring his suit in New York. He
and all but one of the individual defendants reside there.

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONS, J., dissenting.

The principal office of the American Tobacco Company
is in New York City and it is there that its books and
records are found, its board of directors meets and the
acts complained of took place. There the respondent,
Guaranty Trust Company, is located, and its co-trustee
resides. Before the decree can be enforced it must be
obtained and the litigation must be brought to a successful
conclusion. That involves the production in court of the
necessary evidence. Of the parties to this case none but
the American Tobacco Company is amenable to process
in New Jersey; all are amenable in the Southern District
of New York. In New York, petitioner can compel them
and others connected with the corporation to attend as
witnesses; all can be ordered to make complete discovery;
and petitioner can compel the production at the trial of
the records of both corporate defendants. We cannot assume that compulsion will not be necessary. The Tobacco
Company carried to the highest court of the state its resistance to petitioner's preliminary application to inspect
its books, (Matter of Rogers v. American Tobacco Co., 143
Misc. Rep. 306, 257 N. Y. S. 321; aff'd 233 App. Div. 708,
249 N. Y. S. 993, leave to appeal denied). In New York
also the individual defendants and the trust company can
be reached by injunction pendente lite, restraining the
transfer to innocent purchasers of the stock, certificates
for which are already issued and in the hands of the trust
company. Under the circumstances of this case, only considerations of more compelling force than the possibility
of inconsistent decrees should lead a forum, convenient in
so many respects, to decline jurisdiction.
I come then to the only ground which can plausibly be
urged for declining the jurisdiction-that in*one, but not
necessarily a conclusive aspect of the case, the Court may
be called on to decide questions of New Jersey law which,
although novel, can hardly be said to be complicated or

148

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
STONE, J., dissenting.

288 US.

difficult. If there were any principle of federal jurisprudence, generally applicable, that in cases between private
parties federal courts of equity may, in their discretion,
decline jurisdiction because called upon to decide an unsettled question of state law, I would willingly acquiesce
in declining it here. But this Court has not declared such
a principle and does not recognize it now. On the contrary, whether jurisdiction rests on diversity of citizenship
or on a substantial constitutional question, this Court. has
consistently ruled that it is the duty of a federal court
of original jurisdiction, and of this Court on appeal from
its decree, to pass on any state question necessarily involved, however novel, and that the decision may be rested
on that ground alone. Siler v. Louisville & Nashville R.
Co., 213 U. S. 175; Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co.,
270 U. S. 378.
Unless we are now to abandon that long settled practice, I can see much more reason for passing on this question than upon many others which this Court has decided. Our judgment would conflict with no local decisions, compare Black & White Taxi Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxi Co., 276 U. S. 518; Burgess v. Seligman, 107
U. S. 20; nor apply an alien policy to matters which are
the subject of delicate feeling in the state. Compare
Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; Railroad Commission of
California v. Los Angeles Ry. Corp., 280 U. S. 145. Indeed, we may not even avoid deciding the question of
state law by sending the case to New Jersey, for it is not
suggested that if petitioner should elect to sue in the federal court for New Jersey, or if the suit should be. properly br6ught there by removal from the state court, either
that court or this may decline 'jurisdiction. Thus we
should do no more in deciding the question of New Jersey
law now than if the case were brought to us'from the
federal courts in New Jersey.

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

STONE,

J., dissenting.

Even if decision of the question of New Jersey law were
more embarrassing than it appears to be here, a proper
exercise of discretion would seem to require that the bill
be retained, and that an interlocutory injunction restraining any disposition of the stock by respondents be granted
as prayed, pending the diligent prosecution by petitioner
of a suit in New Jersey. Compare Mallow v. Hinde, 12
Wheat. 193; Dunn v. Clarke, 8 Pet. 1; Stover v. Wood,
28 N. J. Eq. 253.
If federal courts are to continue the general practice of
deciding novel questions of state law whenever they are
necessary or convenient grounds for the disposition of
cases pending before them, there are peculiarly cogent reasons why there should be no departure from the practice
in cases like the present. While a corporation in legal
theory has only one domicile, in practice its activities are
often nationwide and the legal domicile of the corporation,
as in this case, is neither the place of its real corporate life
nor the home of its officers and directors. Hence, if stockholders' suits, such as the prcsent, are to be maintained
with any hope of success, the practical necessities of making parties, securing evidence, obtaining the production
of documents and relief by injunction against individual
wrongdoers, justify, if they do not compel, their prosecution in the particular jurisdiction where necessary parties
and witnesses may be found, rather than in the place of
the technical corporate domicile.
Extension of corporate activities, distribution of corporate personnel, stockholders and directors through many
states, and the diffusion of corporate ownership, separated
from corporate management, make the integrity of the
conduct of large busitiess corporations increasingly a
matter of national rather than local concern (cf. A. A.
Berle, Jr. and Gardiner C. Means, The Modern Corporation and Private Property, 1932), to which the fed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

288 U.S.

eral courts should be quick to respond when their jurisdiction is rightly invoked. We should be slow, indeed, to
make a reluctance to decide questions of state law, not
exhibited in other classes of cases, the ground for declining to decide this one.
MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS concurs in this opinion.

MR. JUSTICE CARDozo, dissenting.
Viewing the suit as one to reclaim the shares received
by the directors in breach of their fiduciary duties to the
corporation and the shareholders, I find no adequate reason for the refusal to exercise jurisdiction, and this though
a different conclusion might be thought to be necessary if
relief were to be given upon grounds affecting the validity
of the issue as a whole.
In the circumstances of this case, the certificates allotted
to the directors may be charged with a constructive trust,
and surrendered to the corporation to be held in its treasury, without impeaching a single certificate other than
their own.
There is no need to consider whether the "plan" as
proposed is insufficient on its face, with the result that
the innocent employees as well as the culpable directors
will be deprived of its benefits. If it be taken as sufficient, the shareholders who voted for it are not chargeable with notice that fiduciary powers would later be
perverted by the award to the fiduciary of extraordinary
benefits. Consent will not protect if reason and moderation are not made to mark the boundaries of what is done
under its shelter.
.I leave the question open whether in other circumstances
or with other consequences there may be a cancellation
of the shares of a foreign corporation in the absence of an
adjudication by the courts of the domicile. Here the or-

ROGERS v. GUARANTY TRUST CO.
123

CARDOZO,

J., dissenting.

ganic structure of the corporation, if affected by the decree at all, will not be changed in such a way as to work
substantial detriment to any stranger to the suit, but
the fruits of an unjust enrichment will be put back into
the treasury. I think we are at liberty to do so much, if
nothing more, without waiting upon the judgment of
any other court.
The doctrine of forum non conveniens is an instrument
of justice. Courts must be slow to apply it at the instance
of directors charged as personal wrongdoers, when justice
will be delayed, even though not thwarted altogether, if
jurisdiction is refused. At least that must be so when the
wrong is clearly proved. The overmastering necessity of
rebuking fraud or breach of trust will outweigh competing
policies and shift the balance of convenience. Equity, it
is said, will not be over-nice in balancing the efficacy of one
remedy against the efficacy of another when action will
baffle, and inaction may confirm, the purpose of the
wrongdoer. Falk v. Hoffman, 233 N. Y. 199, 203; 135
N. E. 243. Of the shares allotted to directors as contrasted with those allotted to other employees, most are
owned by the defendants sued. Whatever shares belong
to others will be untouched by the decree. With all the
procedural complexities possible hereafter if jurisdiction
be declined, the hazard of inconsistent judgments affecting
the directors inter se will not avail without more to
halt the processes of justice and the award of such relief
as the court is competent to give against those subject to
its power.

I agree with MR. JUSTICE STONE for the reasons stated
in his opinion that a breach of the fiduciary duties of the
directors is a legitimate inference from the allegations of
the bill, and agree with his conclusion that the cause
should be remanded to the District Court for a determination of the merits.

