OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Parties.

BROAD RIVER POWER CO. v. QUERY

288 U.S.

ET AL.*

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 390.

Argued January 20, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. A state tax on production and sale of electricity generated by
water or steam power does not deny to those so producing it the
equal protection of the laws because it does not extend to producers by internal combustion engines or to industrial plants
generating electricity for their own use and that of their
employees. P. 179.
2. A hydroelectric company which constructed and operates its
plant by permission of the Federal Government, under the Federal
Water Power Act, does not act as the agent of the Government
in producing and selling electric power on its own account, and
can not claim exemption from a state tax on the power produced
and sold, upon the ground that the tax interferes with a federal
function or burdens the Federal Government. P. 180.
60 F. (2d) 528, affirmed.

from decrees of the District Court of three
judges dismissing bills to restrain enforcement of a state
statute taxing the production and sale of electric power.
Orders denying interlocutory injunctions were affirmed, in
286 U. S. 525.
APPEALS

Mr. George M. LePine, with whom Messrs. C. Edward
Paxson and W. C. McLain were on the brief, for appel-

lants.
Mr. J. Fraser Lyon, with whom Mr. John M. Daniel,
Attorney General of South Carolina, was on the brief, for
appellees.
* Together with No. 391, Lexington Water Power Co. v. Query et at

BROAD RIVER POWER U. v. QUERY.
178

179

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These suits were brought to restrain the enforcement of
a statute of South Carolina (Act of May 9, 1931, 37 St.
at Large, 357) imposing a tax on the production and sale
of electric power. The District Court of three judges (28
U. S. C. 380) sustained the tax and the cases come here on
appeal from final decrees dismissing the bills of complaint
for want of equity. 52 F. (2d) 515; 286 U. S. 525; 60 F.
(2d) 528.
The contention, pressed below, that the statute is repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution is not presented here. The grounds of attack are (1)
that the statute is a denial of the equal protection of the
laws, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment; and (2), in
the case of the Lexington Water Power Company, that
the tax is imposed upon an agency of the United States.
(1) The complaint, upon the first ground, is that the
tax is laid upon the production of electricity by water
power or steam power, while the production of electricity
by the use of oil or internal combustion engines is not
taxed, and that the statute also exempts from the tax industrial plants generating power for their own use or that
of their employees.
The court below adequately answered this contention.
The court found that there were at least two plants in the
State producing electric current by the use of internal
combustion engines and that these plants were small and
their business was comparatively insignificant. The court
pointed out that the purpose of the legislature was evidently "to tax the generation of electric current by the
hydroelectric companies which utilize the water power
in the rivers of South Carolina, one of the great natural
resources of that State." And the generation of current

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

by the use of steam power was taxed "because it is a
matter of common knowledge that the hydroelectric companies use steam power to supplement water power in
the production of their current, and also because current
produced by steam power is the great competing factor
on the market with current produced by water power."
52 F. (2d) p. 519. This classification cannot be regarded
as arbitrary. Nor can it be doubted that the State was
entitled, in devising its fiscal system, to recognize the distinction between hydroelectric companies generating electric current for sale to the public and industrial plants
which develop power for their own use and that of their
employees. The principles involved have been so recently restated by this Court that elaboration is unnecessary. Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245;
Ohio Oil Co. v. Conway, 281 U. S. 146; State Board of Tax
Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U. S.527.
(2) The separate complaint of the Lexington Water
Power Company is that it is generating current at a
water power plant, on the Saluda river, which was constructed and is operated pursuant to a license granted by
the Federal Power Commission under the Federal Water
Power Act (16 U. S. C., c. 12) and hence that the tax
is an "excise, license or privilege tax" upon a Federal
agency.
It is apparent, however, that the complainant in generating and selling power is not acting as an agent for the
Government. It acts with the Government's permission,
and while it may be said to have received a privilege from
the Government, it is not a privilege to be exercised on behalf of the Government. The tax is not upon the exertion
of, and cannot be said to burden, any governmental function. Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U. S.123, 130. The
tax is not laid upon the license granted by the Federal
Water Power Commission-but upon the production and
sale of power which the company generates at its own

UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
178

181

Syllabus.

pleasure and exclusively for its own profit. Notwithstanding the special characteristics of electrical energy,
the company is engaged in producing and selling an article
of trade. Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S. 165,
180, 181. The product is property. The fact that a privilege has been received from the Federal Government does
not exempt that property or the local business in producing and selling it from the burdens of taxation otherwise
valid. Railroad Company v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 33;
Choctaw, 0. & G. R. Co. v. Mackey, 256 U. S. 531, 537;
Willcuts v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 226; Fox Film Corp. v.
Doyal, supra;Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Commission
(No. 1), 283 U. S. 291, 294. Thus, the "permissive grant"
by the Federal Government to a telegraph company to use
the military and post roads of the United States for its
poles and wires "did not prevent the State from taxing
the real or personal property belonging to the company
within its borders or from imposing a license tax upon the
right to do a local business within the State." Williams v.
Talladega, 226 U. S. 404, 416; Western Union Telegraph
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530, 549; Western Union
Telegraph Co. v. Gottlieb, 190 U. S. 412, 423. The complainant is in no better position with respect to the tax
here in question.
Decrees affirmed.
UNION BANK & TRUST CO. v. PHELPS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No.. 346. Argued January 17, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Discrimination in state ad valorem taxation -between corporations
receiving deposits and doing a commercial banking business, and
their corporate and individual competitors in the business of
lending money, by taxing the shares of the former and taxing the
latter on a more favorable basis, or exempting them,--held consistent with the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. - P. 185.

