436

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288US.

to act for and on behalf of his ward. He was not an
agent or instrumentality of the United States. Shippee v.
Commercial Trust Co., 115 Conn. 326, 161 Atl. 775. Puffenbargerv. Charter,112 W. Va. 488; 165 S. E. 541. State
ex rel. Smith v. Shawnee County Comm'rs, supra. It
results that the deposit in question does not belong to
the United States. and, as indebtedness to it is essential
to priority, the guardian's claim under that section is
without merit. Other contentions made by petitioner are
so plainly inapplicable here as not to require discussion.
Judgment affirmed.
PORTER, EXECUTRIX, ET AL. V. COMMISSIONER
OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 466.

Argued February 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. Section 301 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1926 imposes a tax "upon
the transfer of the net estate of every decedent" and § 302 requires that in computing the tax there shall be included in the gros
estate the value at the time of death of all property,
"(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent at the
time of his death," and
"(d) To the extent of any interest therein of which the decedent
has at any time made a transfer, by trust or otherwise, where the
enjoyment thereof was subject at the date of his death to any
change through the exercise of a power, either by the decedent
alone or in conjunction with any person, to alter, amend, or
revoke... ." Held:
(1) Subdivision (d) is not limited by (a) to interests of decedent
at time of his death. P. 442.
(2) Under subdivision (d), where the decedent had transferred
property by deeds of trust reserving power in himself to make a
complete revision of the trusts, even to the extent of taking the
property from the trustees and beneficiaries named and transferring

it absolutely or in trust for the benefit of others, although the

PORTER v. COMMISSIONER.
436

Argument for Petitioners

reservation expressly excluded the making of.any change in favor
of himself or of his estate,-the value of such property at the time
of his death was properly included in the gross estate. Pp. 440, 443.
2. Where a gift has been made in trust subject to a power in the
donor to change the terms and beneficiaries, although the power does
not extend to any changes in favor of the donor or his estate, his
death, by ending his control in other respects, serves to pass to the
donees a valuable assurance of title. Therefore Congress constitutionally may provide for including the property so transferred in
the computation of the federal "estate tax," by a law passed after
the trusts were established and before the death of the donor.
P. 443.
60 F. (2d) 673, affirmed.

CERTIoRARi, 287 U. S. 591, to review the affirmance of
an order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 23 B. T. A. 1016,
including in the gross estate of a decedent, in measuring
the federal transfer tax, property which had been conveyed by him in trust before his death.
Mr. Walter E. Hope, with whom Mr. Edward N. Perkins was on the brief, for petitioners.
The tax is laid upon the transfer of the net estate of
the decedent at death. It is not laid upon the extinguishment of a limited power. Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co.,
278 U. S. 339; Chase National Bank v. United States,-278
U. S. 327; Tyler v. United States, 281 U. S. 497; Nichols v.
Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312.
Section 302 (d) should not be construed as including
the value of the property previously transferred in the
net estate at death.
Sections 302 (c) and (d) perform the same function
and serve as measuring rods of what is to be included in
the net estate, which is taxed under § 301. The construction applied to § 302 (c) in Reinecke v. Northern Trust
Co., supra, should be applied to § 302 (d) in this case.
The wording of § 302 (d) is peculiarly susceptible of
the construction applied to § 302 (c) in the Reinecke

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Counsel for Respondent.

288 U.S.

case. Such a construction avoids arbitrary and unreasonable results, which are the inevitable consequence of
the contention of the Government.
Section 302 (d) refers to a power so unlimited that
the donor might have taken advantage of it for his own
benefit. This was the construction uniformly adopted by
the appellate courts. Brady v. Ham, 45 F. (2d) 454;
Erskine v. White, 47 F. (2d) 1014; Cover v. Burnet, 53
F. (2d) 915. The contrary construction would make the
tax depend.on trivial considerations and lead to arbitrary
and unreasonable results.
As applied to the transfers in this case, § 302 (d) would
be confiscatory and unconstitutional, if construed as the
Government contends.
Taxation of one person's property by reference to the
property of another is unconstitutional. Hoeper v. Tax
Comm'r, 284 U. S. 206; Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312.
Measuring the estate of a decedent for purposes of taxation by the value of property of which he had wholly
divested himself, is taxation of bne by reference to the
property of another.
All attempts to relate the trust property to the estate,
therefore, must be based on past ownership; and the real
aim of the Government is to tax past gifts inter vivos.
Nichols v. Coolidge, 274 U. S. 531; Heiner v. Donnan,
supra. The inequitable character of the tax stands out
in this case, where the trusts were executed long before
the enactment of the statute.
Each of the original trusts was irrevocable as and when
made. The attempt to revoke Trusts 1 and 2 was ineffectual. The indenture of November 27, 1926, therefore
accomplished no transfer. Section 302 (c) of the Act has
no application.
Mr. ErwiA N. Griswold, with whom Solicitr General
Thacher,Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and Mr.
Sewall Key were on the brief, for respondent.

PORTER v. I2OMM1SSIONER.
Opinion of the Court.

436

By leave of Court, Mr. Merriil S. June, and Mr. J.
DuPratt White filed briefs as amici curiae.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question presented is whether, for the purpose of
determining the tax liability of the estate of the deceased,
§ 302 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1926 1 requires that there
shall be included in the value of the gross estate certain
bonds that he had transferred in trust.
October 18, 1918, and again on February 1, 1919, decedent transferred to the Bankers Trust Company certain
bonds for the benefit of his daughter and her son. Contemporaneously he made similar transfers of bonds to the
same trustee for the benefit of his son and his son's
daughter. November 27, 1926, in order to make provision
for two children of his daughter born after the creation of
these trusts, he sent the trust company letters purporting
to revoke the trusts of which she was a beneficiary, to
terminate the interest of all persons therein and to direct
it to deliver the principal and income to itself as trustee
according to a new deed then delivered. Each of the five
trust agreements included provisions governing the management, investment, and disposition of principal and
income, and contained a paragraph reserving to the donor
power at any tine to alter or modify the indenture and
any or all of the trusts in any manner but expressly
excepting any change in favor of himself or his estate.!
144 Stat. 71. 26 U. S. C., § 1094 (d).
Paragraph tenth in each of the transfers is as follows:
"Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the
Donor at any time during the continuance of the trust" herein provided for may, by instrument in writing. executed and acknowledged
or proved by him in the manner required for a deed of real estate
(so as to "enable such deed to be recorded in the State of New York)
delivered to the trustee, or its successor, modify or alter in any
2

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Deceased died November 30, 1926. The Commissioner
of Internal Revenue included in the gross estate the value
of the property described in the last deed and petitioners
sought redetermination. The Board of Tax Appeals, because of the reserved power to alter and amend, held
§ 302 (d) applied, and included the corpus of all the trusts
in the gross estate. 23 B. T. A. 1016. The Circuit Court
of Appeals affirmed that ruling. 60 F. (2d) 673. Its decision being in conflict with that of the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the First Circuit in Brady v. Ham, 45 F. (2d)
454, and that of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia in Cover v. Burnet, 60 App. D. C. 303; 53 F.
(2d) 915, we granted a writ of certiorari. 287 U. S. 591.
By the trust agreements, decedent divested himself of
all interest in the bonds and, subject only to the reserved
power, transferred full title to the trustee and beneficiaries. The reservation is broad; evidently he intended to
be free at any time and from time to time to alter or
modify the disposition of the property as he might see fit,
subject to the restriction above mentioned. The power
manner this indenture, and any or W of the trusts then existing and
the limitations and estates and interest in property hereby created
and provided for subsequent to such trusts; and in case of such
modification or alteration said instrument shall direct the revised disposition to be made of the trust fund or the income thereof, or that
part of the trust fund or the income thereof affected by such modification or alteration, and upon the delivery of such instrument to the
Trustee or its successor said instrument shall take effect according to
its provisions, and the Trustee or its successors shall make and execute
all such instruments, if any, and make such conveyance, transfers or
deliveries of property as may be necessary or proper in order to carry
the same into effect, and no one, born or unborn, shall have any right,
interest, or estate under this indenture except subject to the proper
modification or alteration thereof; but this power to modify or alter
is not intended and shall not be construed to include the-right to the
Donor to make such modification or alteration in his own favor or in
favor of his estate, but shall apply only so far as the interest of third

parties may be concerned."

PORTER v. COMMISSIONER.
436

Opinion of the Court.

did not amount to an estate or interest in the property.
It was much like, and for the purposes of this case may be
deemed the substantial equivalent of, a general power of
appointment by will. Cf. United States V. Field, 255
U. S. 257, 263. Patterson& Co. v. Lawrence, 83 Ga. 703,
707; 10 S. E. 355. Clapp v. Ingraham,126 Mass. 200.
The Act, § 301 (a), imposes a tax "upon the transfer of
the net estate of every decedent." The net estate as there
used does not mean an amount to be ascertained as such
under any general rule of law or under statutes governing
the administration of estates, but is the gross estate as
specifically defined in §302 less deductions permitted by
§303. The former section declares that " the value of the
gross estate of the decedent shall be determined by including the value at the time of his death of all property, real
or personal, tangible or intangible, wherever situated(a) To the extent of the interest therein of the decedent
at the time of his death."
(b) To the extent of any interest therein of the surviving spouse as or in lieu of dower or curtesy. (c) To the
extent of any interest therein of which the decedent has
at any time made a transfer by trust or otherwise in contemplation of or intended to take effect in possession or
enjoyment at or after his death.
(d) "To the extent of any interest therein of which the
decedent has at any time made a transfer, by trust or
otherwise, where the enjoyment thereof was subject at the
date of his death to any change through the exercise of a
power, either by the decedent alone or in conjunction with
any person, to alter, amend, or reyoke. .

....

(e) To the extent of the interest therein held by decedent as a joint tenant or as a tenant by the entirety.
(f) To the extent of any property passing under a general power of appointment exercised by the decedent by
will or by deed in contemplation of or intended to take
effect in possession or enjoyment at or after death. (g)

442.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

To the extent of the amount of life insurance receivable
as specified. Subdivision (h) requires the interests defined in (b) to (g) inclusive to be included whether transfer was made before or after the passage of the Act.
Petitioners contend that the only thing taxed is the
transfer of the net estate at death, and that property in
which the decedent then held no interest or power-of enjoyment must be excluded. They rely on Reinecke v.
Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339. But that case is not
in point. It involved seven trusts created by the dece,dent. Two were held taxable because subject to a power
of revocation in him alone. In each of the others he reserved power to alter, change or modify, to be exercised
in four by joint action of himself and a single beneficiary
and in the remaining one by himself and a majority of
the beneficiaries acting jointly. As the title was put
beyond his control, we held these transfers not taxable.
And petitioners assume, as held in White v. Erskine, 47
F. (2d) 1014, that (a) is a limitation upon (d) and argue
that the gross estate includes property only to the extent
of the "interest therein of the decedent at the time of his
death" and that, as before his death he had divested himself of all title, the property so transferred is not to be
included in the gross estate. But the construction thus
taken for granted cannot be sustained. Subdivision (a)
does not in any way refer to or purport to modify (d) and,
in view of the familiar rule that tax laws are to be construed liberally in favor of taxpayers, it cannot be said
that, if it stood alone, (a) would extend to the transfers
brought into the gross estate by (d). United States v.
Field, supra, 264. Moreover, Congress has progressively
expanded the bases for such taxation. Comparison of
§ 302 with corresponding provisions of earlier Acts warrants the conclusion that (d) is not a mere specification
of something covered by (a) but that it covers something not included therein. Cf. Chase National Bank v.

PORTER v. COMMISSIONER.
43

Opinion of the Court.

United States, 278 U. S. 327. Tyler v. United States, 281
U. S. 497. Gwinn v. Commissioner, 287 U. S. 224. Burnet v. Guggenheim, ante, p. 280.
The net estate upon the transfer of which the tax is
imposed, is not limited to property that passes from
decedent at death. Subdivision (d) requires to be included in the calculation all property previously transferred by decedent, the enjoyment of which remains at
the time of his death subject to any change by the exertion of a power by himself alone or in conjunction with
another. Petitioner argues that, as decedent was without
power to revoke the transfers or to alter or modify the
trusts in favor of himself or his estate, the property is not
covered by subdivision (d). But the disjunctive use of
the words "alter," "modify" and "amend " negatives
that contention. We find nothing in the context or in
the policy evidenced by this and prior estate tax laws or
in the legislative history of subdivision (d) to suggest
that conjunctive use of these words was intended, or that
"alter" and " modify " were used as equivalents of
"revoke" or are to be understood in other than their
usual meanings. We need not consider whether every
change, however slight or trivial, would be within the
meaning of the clause. Here the donor retained until
his death power enough to enable him to make a complete
revision of all that he had done in respect of the creation
of the trusts even to the extent of taking the property
from the trustees and beneficiaries named and transferring it absolutely or in trust for the benefit of others.
So far as concerns the tax here involved, there is no difference in principle between a transfer subject to such
changes and one that is revocable. The transfers under
consideration are undoubtedly covered by subdivision (d).
Petitioners contend that so construed § 302 (d) is
repugnant to the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. They insist, and we assume, that the measures

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

taken by means of decedent's letter to the trustee and the
new deed of November 27, 1926, operated merely to alter
and modify but did not supersede the earlier trusts made
for the benefit of his daughter and her son. They maintain that inclusion of the transfers in question would be
to measure decedent's tax by property belonging to others,
a thing condemned in Heiner v. Donnan, 285 U. S. 312,
and Hoeper v. Tax Commission, 284 U. S. 206, and would
be to tax gifts inter vivos that were fully consummated
prior to the enactment of subdivision (d) and therefore
would be confiscatory under Nichols v. Coolidge, 274
U. S. 531, and Heiner v. Donnan, supra.
They treat as without significance the power the donor
reserved unto himself alone and ground all their arguments upon the fact that deceased, prior to such enactment, completely divested himself of title without power
of revocation. It is true that the power reserved was not
absolute as in the transfer considered in Burnet v. Guggenheim, supra, in which this court, in the absence of any
provision corresponding to subdivision (d), held that the
donor's termination of the power amounted to a transfer
by gift within the meaning of § 319 of the Revenue Act of
1924, 43 Stat. 313. But the reservation here may not be
ignored, for, while subject to the specified limitation, it
made the settlor dominant in respect of other dispositions
of both corpus and income. His death terminated that
control, ended the possibility of any change by him, and
was, in respect of title to the property in question, the
source of valuable assurance passing from the dead to the
living. That is the event on which Congress based the
inclusion of property so transferred in the gross estate as
a step in the calculation to ascertain the amount of what
in § 301 is called the net estate. Thus was reached what
it reasonably might deem a substitute for testamentary
disposition. United States v. Wells, 283 U. S. 102, 116.
There is no doubt as to the power of Congress so to do.

VANCOUVER S. S. CO. v. RICE.
Argument for Petitioner.

436

Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., supra. Chase Ncdtional
Bank v. United States, supra. Tyler v. United States,
supra, 502. Klein v. United States, 283 U. S. 231.
Gwinn v. Commissioner,287 U. S. 224.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE Cmwozo concurs in the result.

VANCOUVER

STEAMSHIP CO., LTD., v. RICE,
ADMINISTRATRIX.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 469.

Argued February 9, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

A stevedore, at work on a vessel in navigable waters in Oregon, received injuries through the vessel's negligence from which he afterwards died ashore. The Oregon law gave the administrator an
action at law for the damages resulting from the death, and a lien
on the vessel.
Held that the cause of action was enforceable in admiralty in rem
against the vessel. P. 447.
60 F. (2d) 793, affirmed.

287 U. S. 593, to review the reversal of a
decree dismissing a libel in admiralty.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Erskine Wood for petitioner.
The Oregon "death statute," under which the suit
was brought, is not a "survival act," and no right of
action arises under it until death actually occurs. Death
occurring, the right which the injured man had dies with
him, and a new, distinct and different cause of action
arises in the person of his administrator for the benefit
of his estate. Since in this case that new cause of action
arose on land death occurring ashore), and the tort and
damages were thus consummated there, the admiralty
court was without jurisdiction. Hughes, Admiralty, 2d

