156

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

Realty Co., 39 F. (2d) 830; United States v. Cleveland,
P. & E. R. Co., 42 F. (2d) 413. Despite redeemability
and the limitation of dividends, the owners of the preferred stock were not in the position of creditors, but
were stockholders with a proprietary interest in the corporate undertaking and with a corresponding relation,
through the voting right, to the direction of that undertaking. The voting right remained unimpaired until
actual redemption. The statute is not concerned with a
failure to exercise existing rights, but with what is deemed
to be a more certain and adequate test of a unitary enterprise. According to this test, petitioner failed to show
affiliation. Burnet v. Howes Brothers Hide Co., 284 U. S.
583, 584.
Judgment affirmed.

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. HUFF ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 58.

Argued December 6, 1932.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Under the Revenue Act of 1918, to permit deduction of loss incurred "in trade or business" or "in any transaction entered into
for profit," the loss must have been "sustained during the taxable
year,"-it must be actual and present in that year; the mere existence of a liability, afterwards liquidated, is not enough. P. 159.
2. One of two partners, in 1920, embezzled money from a trust fund
held by the firm, and paid it to the other (who was innocent) in
discharge of the firm's indebtedness to him. The other discovered
the theft that year; and in the year following, when the firm ceased
business and was settled up, he restored to the fund the full amount,
paying part with the firm's remaining assets and the rest from his
own pocket. Held:
(1) That, under the Revenue Act of 1918, the amount so repaid
was not deductible as a loss incurred by him in 1920. P. 161.

BURNET v. HUFF.
156'

Opinion of the Court.

(2) The amount due him from his firm was not deductible under
ยง 214 (a) (7), Revenue Act of 1921, as a debt "ascertained to
be worthless" during the year 1920, since the results of the firm's
business were not known prior to 1921, and no portion of the debt
was previously ascertained to be worthless. P. 162.
56 F. (2d) 788, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 286 U. S. 541, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 20 B. T. A. 516,
which sustained the Commissioner's ruling against a
deduction in an income tax return.

Mr. Paul D. Miller, with whom Solicitor General
Thacher, Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and Andrew D. Sharpe were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Harry C. Weeks for respondents.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
In computing net income for 1920, the respondents,
R. E. Huff, and --his wife, E. B. Huff (now deceased),
sought deduction of a loss alleged to have been sustained
in that year, in relation to community property, through
the embezzlement of trust funds. The funds were held
by a partnership of which R. E. Huff was a member and
were embezzled by his copartner. The Commissioner
disallowed the deduction, holding that as the funds were
not the property of the petitioners, and they were not
called upon to make good the amount embezzled until
1921, they sustained no loss in 1920. The Board of Tax
Appeals, upon the authority of Farish & Co. v. C6mmissioner (C. C. A. 8th), 31 -F. (2d) 79, upheld this ruling.
An alternative claim, for the deduction' of the amount in
question as a worthless debt, was also disallowed. 20
B. T. A. 516. The Circuit Court of-Appeals, declining to

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

follow the Farishcase, reversed the decision of the Board,
56 F. (2d) 788, and this Court granted certiorari.
The pertinent facts as found by the Board of Tax
Appeals are these: R. E. Huff, a lawyer and banker in
Wichita Falls, Texas, and J. S. Mabry were copartners
engaged in managing the business of a reciprocal fire insurance association known as Wichita Great Western
Underwriters. Under the plan of organization, 25 per
cent. of the gross premium income of the association was
allotted to expenses and profits, and the remaining 75 per
cent. was to be set apart as a reserve to pay fire losses.
Any person might become an 'underwriter' by subscribing to the association such amount as he wished to
invest, paying one-fourth in cash. Ten per cent. of the
cash payment was allowed to the managing attorneys
and the rest constituted a reserve or trust fund which was
to remain the property of the underwriters and to be used
only for the payment of fire losses in excess of the association's reserve. An advisory board was created for
safeguarding the interests of the subscribers but undertook no active supervision until about the end of 1920.
The board looked to Huff for the proper conduct of the
affairs of the association, but the management was left
almost entirely to Mabry. Early in 1920, on Mabry's
representation that the sum of $25,000 was needed for
working capital, Huff advanced this amount to the partnership upon partnership notes payable in six months.
The entire amount was repaid to Huff in the autumn of
1920 by checks drawn by Mabry, the money being taken
from the trust fund of the association held in reserve for
the subscribing underwriters. Huff and Mabry were not
the owners of that fund and neither of them had authority
to use it for any purpose other than the payment of fire
losses. To cover the checks, given to repay Huff, Mabry
gave a demand note signed in the firm name in favor of
the reserve fund. Mabry had no authority to execute the
note and Huff did not know until near the end of 1920

BURNET v. HUFF.
156

Opinion of the Court.

that the note had been given or that the repayment to
him had not been made from funds belonging to the firm.
The unauthorized use of the trust fund was discovered,
in the absence of Mabry, in December, 1920. On Mabry's
return in January, 1921, he was removed as one of the
managing attorneys and the firm then discontinued business. Mabry promised to pay back the money he had
taken but did not do so,-and a judgment against him
would have been worthless. Huff was unable to determine the amount of the assets of the firm of Huff & Mabry
before the close of 1920, and in February, 1921, these
assets, amounting to $3,228.65, were turned over by Huff
to the association, together with $21,771.35 which he paid
personally. He has not been reimbursed. Huff kept no
regular books of account and made up his income tax
returns upon a cash receipts and disbursements basis.
First. The Revenue Act of 1918 (40 Stat. 1057, 1066,
1067) provided for the deduction of losses incurred " in
trade or business " of "in any transaction entered into for
profit," or arising from theft of property "not connected
with the trade or business," when the losses were "sustained
during the taxable year" and were "not compensated for
by insurance or otherwise." ยง 214 (a) (4) (5) (6).
The Government concedes that if assets of the taxpayer
used in trade or business, or "in any transaction entered
into for profit," are stolen in any year, the taxpayer sustains the loss in that year and the deduction must then be
taken even though the theft is not discovered or the
amount ascertained until the following year. This is said
to be the import of the regulation adopted by the Treasury Department under the Revenue Act of 1921. Regulations No. 45, Art. 111.1 But the Government contends
'Article 111 of Regulations No. 45 provides: "A loss from theft or

embezzlement occurring in one year and discovered in another is deductible only for the year of its occurrence .... If subsequently to its
occurrence, however, a taxpayer first ascertains the amount of a loss
sustained during a prior taxable year which has not been deducted

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

that a different rule applies (at least where the taxpayer
is on a cash basis) when the property stolen is not that of
the taxpayer but is held by him in trust, and the theft
is not discovered until the following year, as in that case
"the taxpayer, being nothing out of pocket, cannot be
said to have 'sustained' the loss in the year of the theft."
The Government also raises the question whether Huff,
in the absence of a finding of negligence, or of improper
delegation of the administration of the trust to Mabry,
can be regarded as legally bound to make restitution.
Respondents insist that Huff was "liable for the trust
funds" from the moment they were received by his firm,
and that the loss was sustained at the time of the embezblement because it deprived him of assets with which he
could have discharged his obligation.
We find it unnecessary to discuss the question whether
Huff was bound to make good the amount taken from the
funds of the association by his copartner. We may assume that he was. But the mere existence of liability is
not enough to establish a deductible loss. There is
liability in the case of a breach of contract, but as the
Court said in Lucas v. American Code Co., 280 U. S. 445,
450, "even an unquestionable breach does not result in
loss if the injured party forgives or refrains from prosecuting his claim." And whether a taxpayer will actually
sustain a loss through embezzlement of trust funds of
which he is trustee will depend upon a variety of circumstances. If there is liability on his part for the misappropriation, it does not create a certainty of loss, as the
defalcation may be made good by the one who caused it,
from gross income, he may render an amended return for such preceding taxable year, including such amount of loss in the deductions from
gross income, and may file a claim for refund of the excess tax paid
by reason of the failure to deduct sich loss in the original return."
See, also, Regulations No. 62, Art. 111; No. 65, Art. 112; No. 69,
Art. 112; No. 74, Art. 342.

BURNET v. HUFF.
156

Opinion of the Court.

or the liability of the taxpayer may be enforced only to a
limited extent or not at all. The requirement that losses
be deducted in the year in which they are sustained calls
for a practical test. The loss "must be actual and present." Weiss v. Wiener, 279 U. S. 333, 335; Lucas v.
American Code Co., supra; Eckert v. Burnet, .283 U. S.
140, 141, 142.
The instant case aptly illustrates the importance of this
principle and calls for its application. Huff himself received the entire amount embezzled. He received this
amount in payment of notes given to him by his firm to
cover his advances to the firm. If he was liable to restore
the amount taken from the trust fund, he himself had
the full sum that was to be restored. So far as his individual estate was concerned, he had lost nothing by the
embezzlement. If Huff had learned of the embezzlement
immediately upon the payment to him and had at once
restored the entire amount to the trust fund, he would
have been in the same position as that in which he was
before he received the money; that is, he would have held
the partnership notes, for his advances to the partnership,
which had not been properly discharged. Huff's personal
wealth would have remained the same as it was prior to
the embezzlement, and his individual gains or losses would
have turned not upon the embezzlement but upon the
result of the partnership business. When, in 1921, on the
liquidation of that business, Huff turned over to the association the sum of $21,771.35, he was merely restoring
part of what he himself had received of the misappropriated fund, and whatever loss he sustained was upon his
in, .stment in, or his advances to, his firm. That loss was
detc. minable only through the winding up of the partnership business.
The result of the partnership transactions was not
known and could not be ascertained in 1920. The firm
did not discontinue business until January, 1921. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

finding is explicit that "some collections from premiums
were made in January and February, 1921 " and "Huff
was unable to determine the amount of Huff & Mabry's
assets before the close of 1920." In February, 1921, the
firm assets were found to amount to $3,228.65 and this
sum was paid to the association, with the amount paid
by Huff as above stated. Upon these facts we find no
basis for the conclusion that Huff sustained a deductible
loss in 1920.
Second. The respondents make an alternative claim
upon the ground that the amount due Huff by his firm
was a debt "ascertained to be worthless" and hence deductible under ยง 214 (a) (7) of the Revenue Act of 1921.
This claim was not passed upon by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, but it was considered and rejected, properly as
we think, by the Board of Tax Appeals. The facts as
found show that the results of the firm's business were
not known prior to 1921 and that no portion of the debt
was ascertained to be worthless within the preceding taxable year.
Judgment reversed.
VOEHL v. INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY
OF NORTH AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 315.

Argued January 13, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. In a case under the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, as applied to employment in the District of
Columbia, the issue before the deputy commissioner was whether
the injury arose out of and in the course of the employment.
This turned on the general nature and scope of the employee's
duties, the particular instructions he had received, the practice
that obtained as to work in extra hours or on Sundays, and the
purpose of a journey in which he was injured. Held:

