CENTRAL TRANSF. CO. v. TERM. R. R.

469

Statement of the Case.

467

Court of Claims in Dakota-Montana Oil Co. v. United
States, 59 F. (2d) 853. For reasons stated in United
States v. Dakota-MontanaOil Co., decided this day, ante,
p. 459, the Commissioner rightly refused to allow the
deductions claimed and the judgment below is
Affirmed.
CENTRAL TRANSFER CO. v. TERMINAL RAILROAD ASSOCIATION OF ST. LOUIS ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 523.

Argued February 14, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

Several rail carriers agreed with a single transfer comparW that
only its places of business should be designated as their "off
track " stations in a certain city; that it should have the exclusive
right to transfer less-than-carload freight between their "on
track" stations and between them and the "off track" stations in
the city; and that they would file the necessary amended tariffs
with the Interstate Commerce Commission to carry out the agreement, and would pay for the transfer services at prescribed rates,
absorbed in their line-haul rates. .Tariffs were filed accordingly
and approved by _the Commission. Held that a rival transfer
company, which was excluded by thi arrangement from business
that it previously had enjoyed, had no standing under § 16 of the
Clayton Act to enjoin performance of the agreement as contrary
to the Sherman Act, since it is provided by the Clayton Act that
no one, except the United States, shall be thereby entitled to sue
for injunctive relief against any common carrier subject to the
Interstate Commerce Act "in respect of any matter subject 'o
the regulation, supervision or other jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission." P. 473.
61 F. (2d) 546, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 595,
a decree dismissing a suit by
numerous interstate carriers
pany to restrain an alleged
Antitrust Act.

to review the affirmance of
a transfer company against
and another transfer comviolation of the Sherman

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

Mr. Glendy B. Arnold for petitioner.
Messrs. C. S. Burg and H. H. Larimore, with whom
Messrs. W. N. Davis, A. H. Kiskaddon, M. G. Roberts,
Harold R. Small, L. H. Strasser, Guy' A. Thompson,
Thomas W. White, Edward J. White, J. M. Bryson, E. T.
Miller, and T. M. Pierce were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, a Delaware corporation engaged in the transportation of intetstate freight in St. Louis, brought suit in
the District Court for Eastern Missouri against respondent, Terminal RailroAd Association of St. Louis, and its
sixteen constituent members, interstate rail carriers having terminals in St. Louis or East St. Louis, to restrain an
alleged violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The
District Court dismissed the suit after a trial on the
merits, on the ground that as the acts complained of
involved matters within the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission a suit to enjoin them. was unauthorized under § 16 of the Clayton Act, 38 Stat. 737,
15 U. S. C. A., § 26, unless brought by the United States.
The Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed.
61 F. (2d) 546. This Court granted 'certiorari. 287
U. S. 595.
For many years before the present suit the respondent
rail carriers had maintained in St. Louis and East St. Louis
certain "off track" stations for receipt and delivery-of lessthan-carload freight and by the, employment of transfer
companies, including petitioner, had provided for the
transportation of such freight by truck between such stations and their "on track " stations, and between each of
the latter in St. Louis and East St. Louis. Tariffs filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission designated all
such "off track" stations and fixed line-haul rates for the

CENTRAL TRANSF. CO. v. TERM. R. R. 471
469

Opinion of the Court.

transportation of freight in less-than-carload lots between
such stations and points on their lines. The "off track"
stations were generally places of business of local transfer
companies, including petitioner, and the Columbia Terminals Company, also named as a defendant.
The several carriers, having proposed, in the interest of
economy and efficiendy, to reduce the number of "off
track" stations and to employ a single transfer company
in interchanging freight, the Interstate Commerce Commission, on May 2, 1927, in response to numerous petitions, ordered a general investigation of the lawfulness of
this proposal and of the methods and practices of the respondents in handling less-than-carload freight in St.
Louis and East St. Louis. On May 25, 1927, the rail carriers filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a
proposed tariff under which the number of designated " off
track" stations was to be reduced from twelve to seven in
St. Louis and from two to one in East St. Louis; new
schedules of line-haul rates, absorbing the allowances paid
by the carrier for the inter-station haul, were applied between all stations in St. Louis and East St. Louis and
points on the lines of the carriers. The only "off track"
stations retained belonged to, the Columbia Terminals
Companiy. Those to be abandoned included three operated by petitioner and two operated and one controlled by
the Columbia Terminals Company.
Thereupon, the Interstate Commerce Commission instituted a proceeding for an investigation of the lawfulness of the proposed tariffs and consolidated it with the
proceeding for a general investigation already pending.
In the course of the consolidated proceeding the Commission made two reports. The first, of May 13, 1929, 155
I. C. C. 129, upheld as reasonable and lawful the proposed
reduction in number of "off track" stations and the employment by the several rail carriers of a single transfer
company to do the inter-station hauling. The Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

sion found that these changes in method of handling
freight under the proposed rate schedules would effect
large savings in transportation costs and that the arrangement entered into to effect them was not a violation of
the anti-trust laws of the United States. The proposed
rate schedule was suspended, pending a cost study, at the
conclusion of which the Commission, by a second report
and order of July 27, 1931, 177 I. C. C. 316, approved the
rate schedule as filed.
Pending the proceedings before the Commission, respondent, the Terminal Railroad Association, acting on
behalf of the respondent carriers, on June 1, 1931, entered
into a contract with Columbia Terminals Company, embodying the arrangement between the carriers and the
Columbia Terminals Company, which is the subject of
complaint in this suit. By this contract it was agreed
that the reduced number of "off track" stations named in
the filed tariffs, which were places of business of the Columbia Terminals Company, should be designated and
maintained as the only "off track" stations of the carriers; that the Columbia Terminals Company should have
the exclusive right to transport less-than-carload freight
between the "on track" stations and between them and
the "off track" stations; that the carriers should file the
necessary amended tariffs with the Interstate Commerce
Commission to carry out the agreement and pay for the
services rendered at prescribed rates, which were absorbed
in the line-haul rates ultimately approved by the Commission. The practical effect of the contract was to give
the Columbia Terminals Company the exclusive right to
operate the "off track" stations, to haul the interchanged
freight, and thus to preclude the employment of petitioner
and.others in that service.
Petitioner assails the contract and the consequent refusal of the carriers to employ it and to use its places of
business as stations, as creating a forbidden monopoly in

CENTRAL TRANSF. CO. v. TERM. R. R.
469

473

Opinion of the Court.

restraint of interstate commerce. To this the respondents
answer that the contract is concerned with matters within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission in respect to which the Clayton Act provides that
no one except the United States may maintain a suit for
an injunction. The question which we must decide is
whether the petitioner is thus precluded from prosecuting
the present suit.
By thl Sherman Anti-Trust Act, the Government alone
was authorized to maintain a suit to restrain violations
of its provisions, Paine Lumber Co. v. Neal, 244 U. S.
459. Private persons were first authorized to bring suits
for that purpose by § 16 of the Clayton Act, 15 U. S. C. A.,
§ 26, but with the proviso "that nothing herein contained shall be construed to entitle any person, firm, corporation or association, except the United States, to bring
suit in equity for injunctive relief against any common
carrier subject to the provisions " of the Interstate Commerce Act" in respect of any matter subject to the regulation, supervision or other jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission."
It is not denied that the respondents are common carriers subject to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act. 49 U. S. C. A., c. 1. Nor is it denied that by the
applicable provisions of the Act the maintenance by the
carriers of the "off track" stations, the transportation
service rendered in connection with them and between the
"on track" stations, through the exclusive agency of a
single transfer company, the restriction of the number of
"off track" stations designated by filed tariffs establishing
line-haul rates to and from those stations, are all within
the jurisdiction of the Commission.1
'Section 12 of the Interstate Commerce Act, § 12, Tit. 49, U. S.
C. A., invests the Comrihission with bfoad powers to conduct proceedings to inquire into the management of the business of all carriers
subject to the Act and to execute and enforce the piovisions of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The petitioner, conceding that the Commission has
jurisdiction of the service of the transfer companies in
interchanging freight between the stations, insists that
the Commission has no jurisdiction or control over the
carrier's discretion in selecting their agents to perform
that service, and consequently no jurisdiction over a
contract by which that discretion is exercised or of a cause
of action arising out of its unlawful exercise; that jurisdiction is therefore in the federal court to grant the relief
prayed.
This argument misconceives both the effect and the
purpose of § 16 of the Clayton Act. Under that section
jurisdiction of the Commission does not delimit the jurisdiction of the federal courts to restrain violations of the
Act. See Smith v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 245 U. S.33,
43. By paragraph 3 of § 3 of the Act; § 3, (3), Tit. 49, U. S. C., rail
carriers subject to it are required to afford all "reasonable, proper
and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines and for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of passengers or property to and from their several lines, and those connecting
therewith." "Reasonable, proper and equal facilities" include not
only trackage, but all other terminal facilities, all of which are brought
under jurisdiction of the Commission. See Pennsylvania Co. v.
United States, 236 U. S. 351. They include privately owned warehouses designated as such by the owner, acting as the carrier's agent,
United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 231 U. S. 274; see Merchants Warehouse Co. v. United States, 283 U. S. 501, 506, 513; cf.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, and
motor truck transfer in connection with transportation by rail. in the
Matter of Legality of Tariffs Purporting to Embrace Motor Truck
Transfer Service, 911. C. C. 539; Motor Bus and Motor Truck Operation, 140 I. C. C. 685, 729; Discontinuance of Inland or Off-Track
Stations in New York City, 173 I. C. C. 727; Cobrdination of Motor
Transportation, 182 I. C. C. 263, 367; Trucking less than Carload
Freight, 185 I. C. C.71.
By § 1, par. 6; § 1, (6), Tit. 49, U. S. C., it is made the duty
of rail carriers to establish and observe just and reasonable regulations and practices affecting the "facilities for transportation" and
"all other matters relating to or connected with the receiving, han-

CENTRAL TRANSF. CO. v. TERM. R. R.

475

Opinion -of the Court.

469

Sherman Anti-Trust Act. Compare United States v.
Trans-Missouri Freight Ass'n, 166 U. S. 290; United
States v. Joint Traffic Ass'n, 171 U. S. 505. It affects only
the capacity of a private party to maintain a suit to restrain violations. See General Investment Co. v. New
York Central R. Co., 271 U. S. 228. Its obvious purpose
is to preclude any interference by injunction with any
business or transactions of interstate carriers of sufficient
public significance and importance to be within the jurisdiction of the Commission, except when the suit is
brought by the Government itself. Here the relief prayed
is that performance of the contract be enjoined. Performance necessarily involves the continued designation
in the filed tariffs of the Columbia Terminal Company's
duing, transporting, storing, and delivery of property subject to the
provisions of this chapter which may be necessary or proper to secure
the safe and prompt receipt, handling, transportation and delivery of
property .

.

. upon just and reasonable terms, and every unjust and

unreasonable classification, regulation and practice, is prohibited and
declared to be unlawful." See Director' General of Railroads v.
Viscose Co., 254 U. S. 498.
Section 6 (1); § 6 (1), Tit. 49, U. S. C., requires every rail
carrier to file schedules of rates applicable between different points on
its own route and between points on its own route and on that of
any other carrier when a through route has been established. They
"shall plainly state the places between which property and passengers will be carried . . . and shall also state separately all terminal
charges . . . and all other charges which the commission may re-

quire, all privileges or facilities granted or allowed and any rules
or regulations which . . . affect . . . any part . . . of such aforesaid
rates . . . or the value of the service rendered to the . . . shipper . . ." Tariffs changing the published rates are also required to

be filed, § 6 (3), and by § 15 (7); § 15 (7), Tit. 49, U. S. C.,
the Commission is authorized on its own motion to enter upon a hearing concerning the lawfulness of the rate and of any classification,
regulation or practice specified in the tariff. See Director General of
Railroads v. .Viscose Co., supra; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426, 437; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v.
Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481, 494.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

places of business as the "off track" stations specified in
the contract, and the continued exclusive employment of
that company to render the stipulated service, both matters within the jurisdiction of the Commission. True, a
contract may precede and have existence apart from the
several acts required to perform it, and conceivably all
of those acts might be done if no contract or agreement
to perform them had ever existed. But when they are
done in performance of an agreement, there is no way
by which the agreement itself can be assailed by injunction except by restraining acts done in performance of
it. That, in this case, the statute forbids, not because the
contract is within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission, but because the acts done in performance of it, which must necessarily be enjoined if any
relief is given, are matters subject to the jurisdiction of
the Commission. See Wheeling & Lake Erie Ry. Co. v.
Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry., 33 F. (2d) 390, 392;
General Investment Co. v. New York Central R. Co.,
23 F. (2d) 822.
Affirmed.

PUERTO RICO v. RUSSELL & CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 492. Argued February 10, 13, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. A sociedad en comandita under -the laws of Puerto Rico is not a
limited partnership in the common-law sense, but is a juridical
person with a personality like that of a corporation. P. 478.
2. A suit against a sociedad en comandita of Puerto Rico can not be
removed by its members from the Insular Court to the United
States District Court for Puerto Rico, under §§ 41 and 42 of the
Organic Act, upon the ground that the members are not citizens
of or domiciled in Puerto Rico. P. 482.
3. A suit by the People of Puerto Rico to recover insular taxes is
not to be classed as a suit arising under the laws of the United

