502

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

position that the latter were unreasonable, the respondents to support the view that they bore a proper relation
to the Wyoming rates and ought not to be reduced. It
cannot therefore be said that by the refusal to consolidate
the Wyoming complaints with the present proceeding the
carriers were denied a fair hearing on the luestion of
rela ionship between the two rate structures.
The District Court was right in holding that the appellees did not make out the claims that the Commission exceeded its statutory authority or denied a fair hearing. But as we think the District Court erred in holding
that the Commission improperly refused the petition of
February 3, 1932, for a rehearing based upon changed
conditions, the judgment must be
Reversed.
HEINER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. DIAMOND ALKALI CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 476 and 477. Argued February 10, 1933.-Decided March 13,
1933.

1. Allowance by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue of special
assessment of profits taxes under § 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918,
and his selection, for comparison, of representative corporations en;
gaged in a like or similar trade or business to that of the taxpayer,
are matters of administrative discretion which are not reviewable
by the courts. Williamsport Wire Rope Co.- v. United States, 277
U. S. 551. P. 507.
2. Where a taxpayer's profits taxes have been determined by the Commissioner by special assessments under §§ 327 and 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918, the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
are without jurisdiction, in a suit for refund, to recalculate the
* Together with No. 478, Lewellyn, Formerly Collector of Internal

Revenue, v. Diamond Alkali Co.

HEINER v. DIAMOND ALKALI CO.
502

Opinion of the Court.

taxpayer's net income and recompute the tax by applying to the
new figure found as the net income the ratios of tax used by the
Commissioner. P. 507.
60 F. (2d)'505, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 593, to review judgments of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in three eases involving alleged
overpayment of profits taxes. For findings of fact, and
conclusions of law of the District Court in Nos. 476 and
477, see 39 F. (2d) 645.

Assistant Attorney General Youngquist, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Sewall Key, Norman D. Keller, Paul D. Miller, and Eldon 0. Hanson
were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. William A.
Siefert, Maynard Teall, and Marion N. Fisherwere on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JusncE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases present the question whether, where the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue has granted special
assessments of profits taxes pursuant to § 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918 (40 Stat. 1093), a court, in an action
for a refund, may recalculate the taxpayer's net income
and recompute the tax by applying to the corrected net
income the rate per cent. used by the Commissioner in
his computation of the tax.
The Alkali Company filed returns for income and
profits taxes for 1918 and 1919 and paid the tax shown
to be due. The Commissioner proposed certain changes
in income and capital as reported, principally due to decreases in amortization and depreciation allowances. At
some date not disclosed by the record the company asked
that its profits taxes be computed pursuant to §§ 327 and

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

328 of the act. The request was denied and correspondence and conferences ensued between the Commissioner
and the taxpayer in an effort to settle the disputed items.
The demand for computation of the taxes pursuant to
the special assessment sections was pressed by the company. Twice during the period of negotiation the Commissioner advised that until the true net income was
ascertained the propriety of special assessment could not
be determined. Finally, in July, 1927, as a result of
audits and investigations, he found the company's net
income, and decided that, owing to abnormal conditions
affecting its capital or income, assessment according to
the usual methnd under § 301 would work an exceptional
hardship, and relief should be granted pursuant to
§§ 327 and 328. He so notified the respondent, enclosing
a calculation of the taxes made by him pursuant to § 328.
The taxpayer protested on several grounds, amongst
others, that the net income as determined under § 301
was excessive, and that the ratio of tax to net income
obtained by the Commissioner by comparison with the
taxes of other representative corporations, as provided
in § 328, was too high. It did not, however, as was its
right, appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals from the determination of net income.
In November, 1927, the Commissioner made an assessment in accordance with his findings and demanded payment of a deficiency thereby disclosed. The respondent
paid under protest and filed claims for refund, asserting
the same objections it had previously urged. The claims
were rejected and the respondent brought suits to recover
the alleged overpayments. The District Court Tound that
additional amounts should have been allowed for amortization, reduced the net income as determined, thereupon
recomputed the taxes on the reduced income b applying
the rate per cent. used by the Commissioner in his com-

HEINER v. DIAMOND ALKALI CO.
502

Opinion of the Court.

putation, and rendered judgment in favor of the respondent. Both parties appealed. The Circuit Court of Appeals .increased the amortization allowance, made additional deductions from gross income for depreciation,
found a net income much less than that fixed by the District Court, and held that the tax should be recomputed
by applying the rate used by the Commissioner to the new
figure found as the net income. 60 F. (2d) 505.
Section 327 (d), so far as here material, enacts that
"Where upon application by the corporation the Commissioner finds and so declares of record that the tax if determined without benefit of this section would, owing to
abnormal conditions affecting the capital or income of the
corporation, work upon the corporation an exceptional
hardship evidenced by gross disproportion between the tax
computed without benefit of this section and the tax computed by reference to the representative corporations
specified in section 328," the tax shall be computed as
provided in the latter section. Section 328 declares that
the tax shall be "the amount which bears the same ratio
to the net income of the taxpayer" as the average tax of
representative corporations engaged in a like or similar
trade or business bears to their average net income, and
directs that in computing the tax the Commissioner shall
compare the taxpayer only with representative corpora.
tions whose invested capital can be satisfactorily determined in accordance with § 326, which are as nearly as
may be "similarly circumstanced with respect to gross
income, net income, profits per unit of business transacted and capital employed, the amount and rate of war
profits or excess profits, and all other relevant facts and
circumstances."
In Williamsport Wire Rope Co. v. United States, 277
U. S. 551, it was decided that the allowance of special
assessment is a matter of administrative discretion; and it

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

was further said that the selection for comparison of representative corporations engaged in a like or similar trade
or business is also a question of discretion. The Commissioner cannot make an administrative finding upon the
question for decision under § 327 (d) or that under 328
until he has determined the net income of the taxpayer.
See United States v. Henry Prentiss & Co., ante, p. 73.
He must compare the income of the taxpayer with that
of corporations he deems representative in order to determine abnormality or gross disproportion between capital
and income. When he comes to compute the ratio or rate
of tax to be applied to the taxpayer's net income, as prescribed in § 328, he obviously will consider as a factor the
ratio of tax to net income of the same representative corporations he-examined for the purpose of deciding whether
he should grant special assessment under § 327 (d).
The parties are in agreement that. the Williarnport
Wire Rope Co. case, supra, precludes revision, correction,
or abrogation of the Commissioner's administrative discretionary findings, where, as here, there is no allegation
of fraud. On the one hand the petitioners claim that the
decisions below amount to such abrogation and the making 6f a new finding as to the right of special assessment
and a fresh computation of the tax upon revised net
income; on the other, the respondent says that the courts
recognized the binding character of the Commissioner's
findings, enforced rather than set aside his allowance of
relief, and adopting the rate found by him, applied it to
the true statutory net income as judicially determined in
accordance with law.
We think the petitioners' position is correct. The taxpayer's true net income was an essential factor in the
problem. Until that was known the Commissioner could
make no proper or satisfactory comparison with conditions prevailing in other corporations similarly circum-

HEINER v. DIAMOND ALKALI CO.
502

Opinion of the Court.

stanced. We cannot say that if the income had been
substantially less than the figure he used he would have
granted special assessment under § 327 (d). Moreover,

with a different net income, he might well have had to
compare the relevant conditions in respondent's business
with the operating results of corporations other than those
he selected on the basis of respondent's net income as
found, and might have concluded that a different ratio of
tax to net income was applicable in respondent's case.
The grant of special assessment and the ascertainment
of the rate or ratio of tax to be applied to the net income
of the taxpayer are indissolubly connected by the terms of
the statute. The exercise of the discretion in both aspects
is committed to the Commissioner and to the Board of
Tax Appeals upon review of his action. That discretion
cannot be reviewed by the courts, nor exercised by them
in place of the administrative officer designated by law.
It is beyond the power of a court to usurp the Commissioner's function of finding that special assessment should
be accorded, and equally so to substitute its discretion for
his as to the factors to be used in computing the tax.
The courts below were in error in adopting the rate chosen
by the Commissioner and applying it to a net income
other than that which he used in making his comparisons
and arriving at the rate. The respondent's tax could
only be computed in accordance with § 301 or under § 328.
The former prescribes the elements to be considered, and
error in the computation remains subject to judicial correction; the latter grants the taxpayer the benefit of
discretionary action by the Commissioner, and precludes
judicial revision or alteration of the computation of
the tax.
The judgments must be reversed and the cases remanded for further proceedings in conformity with, this
opinion.

Reversed.

