PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
329

Syllabus.

tion possible, they must of necessity limit the time for the
proof of claims."
Van Huffel v. Harkelrode,284 U. S. 225, 228"No good reason is suggested why liens for state taxes
should be deemed to have been excluded from the scope of
this general power to sell free from encumbrances.. Section 64 of the Bankruptcy Act grants to the court express
authority to determine 'the amount or legality' of any
tax. . . . Realization upon the lien created by the state
law must yield to the requirements of bankruptcy administration."
The federal government possesses. supreme power in respect of bankruptcies. InternationalShoe Co. v. Pinkus,
278 U. S.261, 265. If a state desires to participate in the
assets of a bankrupt, she must submit to appropriate requirements by the controlling power; otherwise, orderly
and expeditious proceedings would be impossible and a
fundamental purpose of the Bankruptcy Act would be
frustrated.
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 379.

Argued January 19, 1933.-Decided February 13, 1933.

1. A plaintiff in an action for wrongful death can not recover by
proof of facts from which it may be inferred that the injury resulted from an event attributable to the defendant's negligence, if
the same facts give equal support to an inference that it resulted
from another and different event not so attributable. P. 339.
2. When the plaintiff has failed to sustain his burden of proof, because, as to the existence of a vital fact, two equally. justifiable
inferences may be drawn from the facts proven, one for and the
other against him, the mere conclusion of a witness as to which

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Statement of the Case.

288 U.S.

inference should be drawn can not resolve the doubt, in his favor.
P. 340.
3. Where the plaintiff's right of recovery depends upon the existence
of a particular fact being inferred from proven facts, such inference is not permissible in the face of the positive and otherwise
uncontradicted testimony of unimpeached witnesses, consistent
with the facts actually proved, showing affirmatively that the fact
sought to be inferred did not exist. P. 340.
j. A brakeman who was riding a cut of cars moving on a distributing track of a large freight yard, in a switching operation, fell
and was killed; and the case against the company depended on
whether the accident resulted from a collision by a second cut from
behind. Three employees who were on the second cut testified
positively that there was no collision or contact between it and the
first one; and in this they were corroborated by every other employee who was in a position to see. One witness alone, who was
standing fifty feet from the track and nine hundred feet from the
spot where the body was found, testified that he heard a crash-a
thing not unusual in the yard, only "extra loud "-which was not
sufficient to attract his attention and did not cause him to turn at
once, but that shortly thereafter he did turn and saw the two
strings of cars moving together, with the deceased, who had been
visible before, no longer in sight. Held that the witness's further
statement that the crash was caused by a collision of the two
strings in question, was not testimony to a fact but merely an
inference or conclusion of his own, and that the manifest impossibility of telling by sight, from the place where he was, whether the
cars were moving in contact, made his testimony on that point
incredible. P. 342.
5. In a personal injury case, verdict should be directed for the
defendant if the evidence for the plaintiff is so insufficient that a
verdict in his favor would be improper and must be set aside on
motion for a new trial. P. 343.
6. The scintilla rule has been definitely and repeatedly rejected so far
as the federal courts are concerned ; the verdict can not rest on mere
speculation and conjecture. P. 343.
59 F. (2d) 986, reversed.
District Court affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 589, to review the reversal of
a judgment on a verdict directed in favor of the rail-

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
333

Opinion of the Court.

road company in an action for wrongful death, under the
Employers' Liability Act.
Mr. Morton L. Fearey, with whom Messrs. Frederic
D. McKenney and Roscoe H. Hupper were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Sol Gelb for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action brought by respondent against petitioner to recover for the death of a brakeman, alleged to
have been caused by petitioner's negligence. The complaint alleges that the deceased, at the time of the accident resulting in his death, was assisting in the yard work
of breaking up and making up trains and in the classifying
and assorting of cars operating in interstate commerce;
that in pursuance of such work, while riding a cut of cars,
other cars ridden by fellow employees were negligently
caused to be brought into violent contact with those upon
which deceased was riding, with the result that he was
thrown therefrom to the railroad track and run over by
a car or cars, inflicting injuries from which he died.
At the conclusion of the evidence, the trial court directed the jury to find a verdict in favor of petitioner.
Judgment upon a verdict so found was reversed by the
court of appeals, Judge Swan dissenting. 59 F. (2d) 986.
That part of the yard in which the accident occurred
coutained a lead track and a large number of switching
tracks branching therefrom. The lead track crossed a
"hump," and the work of car distribution consisted of
pushing a train of cars by means of a locomotive to the
top of the "hump," and then allowing the cars, in separate strings, to descend by gravity, under the control of

336

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

hand brakes, to their respective destimtions in the various
branch tracks. Deceased had charge of a string of two
gondola cars, which he was piloting to track 14. Immediately ahead of him was a string of seven cars, and
behind him a string of nine cars, both also destined for
track 14. Soon after the cars ridden by deceased had
passed to track 14, his body was found on that track some
distance beyond the switch. He had evidently fallen onto
the track and been run over by a car or cars.
The case for respondent rests wholly upon the claim
that the fall of deceased was caused by a violent collision
of the string of nine cars with the string ridden by deceased. Three employees, riding the nine-car string, testified positively that no such collision occurred. They
were corroborated by every other employee in a pos:tion
to see, all testifying that there was no contact between
the nine-car string and that of the deceased. The testimony of these witnesses, if believed, establishes beyond
doubt that there was no collision between these two strings
of cars, and that the nine-car string contributed in no
way to the accident. The only witness who testified for
the respondent was one Bainbridge; and it is upon his
testimony alone that respondent's right to recover is
sought to be upheld. His testimony is concisely stated,
in its most favorable light for respondent, in the prevailing opinion below by Judge Learned Hand, as follows
[p. 986]:
"The plaintiff's only witness to the event, one Bainbridge, then employed by the road, stood close to the
yardmaster's office, near the 'hump.' He professed to
have paid little attention to what went on, but he did
see the deceased riding at the rear of his cars, whose speed
when they passed him he took to be about eight or ten
miles. Shortly thereafter a second string passed which
was shunted-into another track and this was followed by
the nine, which, according to the plaintiff's theory, col-

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
333

Opinion of the Court.

lided with the deceased's. After the nine cars had passed
at a somewhat greater speed than the deceased's, Bainbridge paid no more attention to either string for a while,
but looked again when the deceased, who was still standing in his place, had passed the switch and onto the
assorting track where he was bound. At that time his
speed had been checked to about three miles, but the
speed of the following nine cars had increased. They
were just passing the switch, about four or five cars
behind the deceased. Bainbridge looked away again and
soon heard what he described as a 'loud crash,' not however an unusual event in a switching yard. Apparently
this did not cause him at once to turn, but he did so
shortly thereafter, and saw the two strings together, still
moving, and the deceased no longer in sight. Later still
his attention was attracted by shouts and he went to the
spot and saw the deceased between the rails. Until he left
to go to the accident, he had stood fifty feet to the north
of the track where the accident happened, and about nine
hundred feet from where the body was found."
The court, although regarding Bainbridge's testimony
as not only "somewhat suspicious in itself, but it's contradiction

.

.

.

so manifold as to leave little doubt,"

held, nevertheless, that the question was one of fact
depending upon the credibility of the witnesses, and that
it was for the jury to determine, as between the one witness and the many, where the truth lay. The dissenting
opinion of Judge Swan proceeds upon the theory that
Bainbridge did not testify that in fact a collision had
taken place, but inferred it because he heard a crash, and
because thereafter the two strings of cars appeared to him
to be moving together. It is correctly pointed out in that
opinion, however, that the crash might have come from
elsewhere in the busy yard and that Bainbridge was in no
position to see whether the two strings of cars were
actually together; that Bainbridge repeatedly said he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

paying no particular attention; and that his position was
such, being 900 feet from the place where the body was
found and less than 50 feet from the side of the track in
question, that he necessarily saw the strings of cars at such
an acute angle that it would be physically impossible even
for an attentive observer to tell whether the forward end
of the nine-car cut was actually in contact with the rear
end of the two-car cut. The dissenting opinion further
points out that all the witnesses who were in a position to
see testified that there was no collision; that respondent's
evidence was wholly circumstantial, and the inferences
which might otherwise be drawn from it were shown to be
utterly erroneous unless all of petitioner's witnesses were
willful perjurers. "This is not a case," the opinion proceeds, "where direct testimony to an essential fact is
contradicted by direct testimony of other witnesses,
though even there it is conceded a directed verdict might
be proper in some circumstances. Here, when all the testimony was in, the circumstantial evidence in support of
negligence was thought by the trial judge to be so insubstantial and insufficient that it did not justify submission
to the jury."
We thus summarize and quote from the prevailing and
dissenting opinions, because they present the divergent
views to be considered in reaching a correct determination
of the question involved. It, of course, is true, generally,
that where there is a direct conflict of testimony upon a
matter of fact, the question must be left to the jury to determine, without regard to the number of witnesses upon
either side. But here there really is no conflict in the testimony as to the facts. The witnesses for petitioner flatly
testified that there was no collision between the nine-car
and the two-car strings. Bainbridge did not say there
was such a collision. What he said was that he heard a
"loud crash," which did not cause him at once to turn,

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
333

339

Opinion of the Court.

but that shortly thereafter he did turn and saw the two
strings of cars moving together with the deceased no
longer in sight; that there was nothing unusual about the
crash of cars--it happened every day; that there was nothing about this crash to attract his attention except that
it was extra loud; that he paid no attention to it; that it
was not sufficient to attract his attention. The record shows
that there was a continuous movement of cars over and
down the "hump," which were distributed among a large
number of branch tracks within the yard, and that any
two strings of these cars moving upon the same track
might have come together and caused the crash which
Bainbridge heard. There is no direct evidence that in
fact the crash was occasioned by a collision of the two
strings in question; and it is perfectly clear that no such
fact was brought to Bainbridge's attention as a perception
of the physical sense of sight or of hearing. At most there
was an inference to that effect drawn from observed facts
which gave equal support to the opposite inference that
the crash was occasioned by the coming together of other
strings of cars entirely away from the scene of the accident, or of the two-car string ridden by deceased and the
seven-car string immediately ahead of it.
We, therefore, have a case belonging to that class of
cases where proven facts give equal support to each of two
inconsistent inferences; in which event, neither of them
being established, judgment, as a matter of law, must go
against the party upon whom rests the necessity of sustaining one of these inferences as against the other, before
he is entitled to recover. United States F. & G. Co. v.
Des Moines Nat. Bank, 145 Fed. 273, 279-280, and cases
cited; Ewing v. -Goode;78 Fed. 442, 444; Louisville & N.
R. Co. v. East Tennessee, V. & G. Ry. Co., 60 Fed 993,
999; Tucker Stevedoring Co. v. Gahagan, 6 F. (2d) 407,
410; Blid v. Chicago & N. W. R. Co., 89 Neb. 689, 691,*et

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

seq.; 131 N. W. 1027; White v. Lehigh Valley R. Co., 220
N.Y. 131, 135; 115 N. E. 439; McGrath v. St. Louis Transit Co., 197 Mo. 97, 104; 94 S. W. 872; Quisenberry v.
Metropolitan Street Ry. Co., 142 Mo. App. 275, 281; 126
S. W. 182; Glancy v. McKees Rocks Borough, 243 Pa. 216,
219; 89 Atl. 972. Compare New York Central R. Co. v.
Ambrose, 280 U. S. 486, 489-490; Stevens v. The White
City, 285 U. S. 195,203-204; Southern Ry. Co. v. Walters,
284 U. S. 190, 194.
The rule is succinctly stated in Smith v. First National
Bank in Westfield, 99 Mass. 605, 611-612, quoted in the
Des Moines National Bank case, supra:
"There being several inferences deducible from the
facts which appear, and equally consistent with all those
facts, the plaintiff has not maintained the proposition upon
which alone he would be entitled to recover. There is
strictly no evidence to warrant a jury in finding that the
loss was occasioned by negligence and not by theft. When
the evidence tends equally to sustain either of two inconsistent propositions, neither of them can be said to have
been established by legitimate proof. A verdict in favor
of the party bound to maintain one of those propositions
against the other is necessarily wrong."
That Bainbridge concluded from what he himself observed that the crash was due to a collision between the
two strings of cars in question is sufficiently indicated by
his statements. But this, of course, proves nothing, since
it is not allowable for a witness to resolve the doubt as to
which of two equally justifiable inferences shall be adopted
by drawing a conclusion, which, if accepted, .will result in
a purely gratuitous award in favor of the party who has
failed to sustain the burden of proof cast upon him by
the law.
And the desired inference is precluded for the further
reason that respondent's right of recovery depends upon
the existence of a particular fact which must be inferred

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
333

Opinion of the Court.

from proven facts, and this is not permissible in the face
of the positIve and otherwise uncontradicted testimony of
unimpeached witnesses consistent with the facts actually
proved, from which testimony it affirmatively appears
that the fact sought to be inferred did not exist. This
conclusion results from a consideration of many decisions,
of which the following are examples: Wabash R. Co. v.
De Tar, 141 Fed. 932, 935; Ragsdale v. Southern Ry. Co.,
121 Fed. 24, 926; Cunard S. S. Co. v. Kelley, 126 Fed.
610, 617; Frazierv. Georgia Railroad & Banking Co., 108
Ga. 807; 33 S. E. 996; Bowsher v. Grand Rapids & I. Ry.
Co., 174 Mich. 339, 344; 140 N. W. 524; Rashall v. Railroad, 249 Mo. 509, 522; 155 S. W. 426; George v. Missouri
Pac. R. Co., 213 Mo. App. 668, 674; 251 S. W. 729; Stine8
v. Dillman (Mo. App.) 4 S. W. (2d) 477, 478; Akerson v.
Great Northern Ry. Co., 158 Minn. 369, 374; 197 N. W.
842; Butterfield v. Trittipo, 67 Ind. 338, 343, 344; Blid v.
Chicago & N. W. R. Co., supra, at pp. 691-693. A rebuttable inference of fact, as said by the court in the Wabash
Railroadcase, "must necessarily yield to credible evidence
of the actual occurrence." And, as stated by the court in
George v. Missouri Pac. R. Co., supra, "It is well settled
that where plaintiff's case is based upon an inference or
inferences, that the case must fail upon proof of undisputed facts inconsistent with such inferences." Compare
Fresh v. Gilson, 16 Pet. 327, 330-331. In Southern Ry.
Co. v. Walters, supra, the negligence charged was failure
to stop a train and flag a crossing before proceeding over
it. The court concluded that the only support for the
charge was an inference sought to be drawn from certain
facts proved. In rejecting the inference, this court said
[p. 194]:
"It is argued that it may be inferred from the speed of
the train when some of the witnesses observed it crossing
other streets as well as Bond Avenue, and from a guess
of the engineer as to the time required to get up such speed

•342

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

after a full stop, that none could have been made at Bond
Avenue. But the argument amounts to mere speculation
in view of the limited scope of the witnesses' observation,
the down grade of the railway tracks at the point, and the
time element involved. (Compare Chicago, M. & St.
P. R. Co. v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472.) Five witnesses for
defendant [employees] testified that a full stop was made
and the crossing flagged, and that no one was hit by the
rear of the tender, which was the front of the train.
"An examination of the record requires the conclusion
that the evidence on the issue whether the train was
stopped before crossing Bond Avenue was so insubstantial and insufficient that it did not justify a submission of
that issue to the jury."
Not only is Bainbridge's testimony considered as a
whole suspicious, insubstantial and insufficient, but his
statement that when he turned shortly after hearing the
crash the two strings were moving together is simply
incredible, if he meant thereby to be understood as saying
that he saw the two in contact; and if he meant by the
words "moving together" simply that they were moving
at the same time in the same direction but not in contact,
the statement becomes immaterial. As we have already
seen he was paying slight and only occasional attention
to what was going on. The cars were eight or nine hundred feet from where he stood and moving almost directly
away from him, his angle of vision being only 30 33' from
a straight line. At that sharp angle and from that distance, near dusk of a misty evening (as the proof shows),
the practical impossibility of the witness being able to see
whether the front of the nine-car string was in contact
with the back of the two-car string is apparent. And,
certainly, in the light of these conditions, no verdict based
upon a statement so unbelievable reasonably, could be
sustained as against the positive testimony to the contrary of unimpeached witnesses, all in a position to see,

PENNA. R. CO. v. CHAMBERLAIN.
333

Opinion of the Court.

as this witness was not, the precise relation of the cars to
one another. The fact that these witnesses were employees of the petitioner, under the circumstances here
disclosed, does not impair this conclusion. Chesapeake
& Ohio Ry. v. Martin, 283 U. S. 209, 216-220.
We think, therefore, that the trial court was right in
withdrawing the case from the jury. It repeatedly has
been held by this court that before evidence may be left to
the jury, "there is a preliminary question for the judge,
not whether there is literally no evidence, but whether
there is any upon which a jury can properly proceed to
find a verdict for the party producing it, upon whom the
onus of proof is imposed." Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall.
116, 120-121. And where the evidence is "so overwhelmingly on one side as to leave no room to doubt what the
fact is, the court should give a peremptory instruction to
the jury." Gunning v. Cooley, 281 U. S. 90, 94; Patton v.
Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 658, 660. The rule is
settled for the federal courts, and for many of the state
courts, that whenever in the trial of a civil case the evidence is clearly such that if a verdict were rendered for
one of the parties the other would be entitled to a new
trial, it is the duty of the judge to direct the jury to find
according to the views of the court. Such a practice, this
court has said, not only saves time and expense, but
"gives scientific certainty-to the law in its application to
the facts and promotes the ends of justice." Bowditch v.
Boston, 101 U. S. 16, 18; Barrett v. Virginian Ry. Co.,
250 U. S. 473, 476, and cases cited; Herbert v. Butler, 97
U. S. 319, 320. The scintilla rule has been definitely and
repeatedly rejected so far as the federal courts are concerned. Improvement Co. v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, 448;
Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, 284; Small Co. v.
Lamborn & Co., 267 U. S. 248, 254; Gunning v. Cooley,
8upra; Ewing v. Goode, supra, at pp. 443-444.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

Leaving out of consideration, then, the inference relied
upon, the case for respondent is left without any substantial support in the evidence, and a verdict in her favor
would have rested upon mere speculation and conjecture.
This, of course, is inadmissible. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry.
v. Coogan, 271 U. S. 472, 478; Gulf, M. & N. R. Co. v.

Wells, 275 U. S. 455, 459; New. York Central R. Co. v.
Ambrose, supra; Stevens v. The White City, supra.
The judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is reversed and that of
the District Court is affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

and MR.

JUSTICE CARDOZO concur

in the result.

APPALACHIAN COALS, INC.,
STATES.

ET AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 504. Argued January 9, 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.
1. Competing producers of bituminous coal formed a corporation to
act as their selling agent, with authority to set the prices. The industry was in grave distress, because of overexpansion, relatively
diminishing consumption, organized buying, and injurious marketing practices within itself; and the members of the combination
sought, through the agent, to escape those practices, promote the
sale of their coal in fair competition, and sell as much of it as
possible.'. Although they controlled a large proportion (73%) of
the commercial production in the immediate region where they
mined, the great bulk of their output was marketed in another
and highly competitive region; and in view of the vast volume
of other coal actually and potentially available, the conditions of
production, and transportation facilities, there was no basis for concluding that competition anywhere could be injuriously'affected by
the operation of their plan. Held that ther&is no present reason
for an injunction under the Sherman Act.

