MUNROE v. RAPHAEL.
Syllabus.

476

We do not overlook the point that a suit by a corporation organized under an act of Congress has been held to
be within the jurisdiction of the federal courts as one
arising under the laws of the United States. Osborn v.
Bank of United States, 9 Wheat. 738; Pacific Railroad
Removal Cases, 115 U. S. 1. Whether or not- these cases
are distinguishable from others on the ground, usually
urged in their support, that a corporation has no powers
and can incur no obligations except as authorized by federal law, Osborn v. The Bank, supra, 823; see Pacific Railroad Removal Cases, supra, 13, their doctrine has not
been extended to other classes of cases and has been
restricted by successive statutes (Act of July 12, 1882,
c. 290, § 4, 22 Stat. 162, 163, 28 U. S. C. A., § 41 (16);
Act of January 28, 1915, c. 22, § 5, 38 Stat. 803, 804; Act
of February 13, 1925, c. 229, § 12, 43 Stat. 936, 941, 28
U. S. C. A., § 42), the last of which limits it to cases of
government owned corporations alone. We should fly in
the face of this legislative policy and disregard precedents
which we think controlling were we to extend the doctrine
now.
The judgment below will be reversed and the cause
remanded with instructions to remand it to the Insular
Court from which it was removed.
Reversed.
MUNROE, RECEIVER, v. RAPHAEL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 407.

Argued February 7, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

In a suit in the District Court to turn assets to account of all creditors ratably, the receiver, by leave of court, sold all the assets,
taking in lieu the purchaser's agreement to pay a specified per
cent. of all proved claims, secured by his bond running to the
United States. The purchaser having defaulted, one of the cred-

486

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the. Court.

288 U.S.

itors, who had proved his claim, obtained leave of the federal
court to sue the obligors on the bond for the agreed percentage
of his claim, in a state court, and brought suit accordingly in the
name of the United States and obtained an attachment of the
obligors' property, and ultimately a judgment. The receiver meanwhile, by an ancillary bill in the federal court, sought to collect
the creditors.
the entire amount of the bond for the benefit of -all
Held:
1. That the bond took the place of and represented the estate
for distribution by the federal court. P. 488.
2. By granting the single creditor leave to sue on the bond in
the state court the federal court did not part with its jurisdiction
over him or the subject matter. P. 489.
3. An order of the federal court restraining further prosecution
of the suit in the state court was a lawful exercise of its jurisdiction. P. 489.
60 F. (2d) 16, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 591, to review the reversal of an
order of the federal court in a receivership proceeding,
which rescinded permission previously granted a creditor
to sue in a state court and enjoined further prosecution
of the suit.

Mr. Carl F. Schipper, Jr., with whom Mr. William P.
Everts was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Mark M. Horblit for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered

the opinion of the

Court.
In an equity suit in the United States District Court
against The Monroe Stores, Inc., the petitioner, Munroe,
was appointed receiver. One Dempsey made a written
offer to purchase the entire property, stipulating that he
would pay the expenses of the receivership and thirty
per.cent. of all claims which might be filed by a certain
date and allowed by the court, and, upon acceptance, give
a bond in the penal sum of $100,000, with sureties, con-

MUNROE v. RAPHAEL.
485

Opinion of the Court.

ditioned that he should perform the contract. The District Court authorized a sale to Dempsey on the terms
set forth in his offer; the receiver conveyed all of the
property in his possession and took a bond which bound
Dempsey as principal and two sureties to the United
States of America. It recited:
"Thb conditions of this obligation are such, that whereas, in Equity Case #3293, now pending in this District
Court of the United States, District of Massachusetts,
entitled J. B. Hirschfeld & Co. Inc. et als. vs. The Monroe
Stores, Inc. Harold A. Dempsey made an offer in writing
to, purchase all of the assets of every name, nature, character, and kind and wheresoever situated, of George B.
Munroe, Receiver of said The Monroe Stores Inc. as more
fully set forth in said offer, and
"Whereas, in connection with said offer a bond guaranteeing the performance of the conditions and terms of said.
offer is required.
"Now, therefore, if the said Harold A. Dempsey shall
comply with all the conditions and items of said offer
then this obligation to be void, otherwise to be and remain
in full force and effect."
Raphael, within the time limited by order of the District
Court, proved his claim and the court allowed it for
$35,000. After he had been paid $1200, Dempsey defaulted and Raphael applied for and obtained leave of
the District Court to sue Dempsey and his sureties on
the bond in the state court. 'An attachment suit was
brought in the name of the United States of America on
the relation of respondent and property of the defendants
seized which is still bound by the attachment. Shortly
after this action was brought the petitioner, as receiver,
instituted a suit on the bond by a supplementary bill in
the District Court in the name of the United States and a
final decree was entered therein against Dempsey and his
sureties for $33,026, which was the amount due all credi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 Us.

tors, including the respondent. An execution was returned unsatisfied. The petitioner then instituted proceedings in contempt against Dempsey and his sureties,
and procured an order requiring them to pay $1,000 a
month until the amount awarded should be paid in full.
Thereafter the petitioner moved the District Court to
rescind its prior order granting respondent leave td sue in
the state court, and to enjoin further proceedings therein,
except the entry of judgment. At the'time of this motion
the suit in the state court was ripe for judgment. The
District Court allowed the motion and granted the injunction. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the order.
60 F. (2d) 16. The case is here on certiorari.
The primary purpose of the receivership was to turn the
Stores Company's assets to account for the equal benefit
of all creditors. If the sale had been for cash, the consideration, after payment of necessary expenses, would have
been ratably distributed. In parting with the property
the receiver, as the court's representative, took a bond,
running not to the creditors, but to the United States.
Certainly no creditor could bring a suit in his own name
on the bond, for his share of the purchase money. Nor
could he institute such an action without leave of the
District Court. The course the respondent pursued evidences his recognition of these limitations. Nevertheless
the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the interest of the
United States was merely nominal; that the cause of
action on the bond belonged to the creditors as individuals; that by granting the respondent leave to sue in the
state court the District Court lost jurisdiction; that its
order permitting such suit was final and could not be
revoked after the expiration of the term; and that the
order of rescission and injunction violated § 265 of the
Judicial Code (28 U. S. C., § 379) which forbids federal,
courts to enjoin prosecution of suits in state courts.
The petitioner supports the action of the District Court
on the ground that the bond was to stand in place of

MUNROE v. RAPHAEL.
485

Opinion of the Court.

the property conveyed, and was taken to enable the court
through its receiver to insure the receipt and distribution
of the purchase money amongst the creditors without
preference or priority. He urges that when leave to sue
was given the respondent the court evidently considered
that such a suit would not interfere with ratable payment of all entitled to share in the assets, but that the
grant was discretionary and subject to revocation if the
interests of the creditors should so require. He says that
the court never lost its jurisdiction over the estate, and
the bond represented the estate for distribution.
We think this is the correct view of the matter. The
District Court's order granting leave to respondent, a
party in interest in the receivership, to sue upon the bond
in the name of the United States, was not a relinquishment of its jurisdiction over him or the subject matter.
The bond was given to an officer of the court for faithful
performance of a contract with that officer. If at any
time it was made to appear that the permitted suit by a
single creditor might work an injustice to the others it
was within the court's power to revoke the permission.
The parties refer us to decisions as to the right of action
on statutory bonds given to the United States by contractors, providing, inter alia, for the payment of subcontractors and materialmen (U. S. Fidelity & G. Co. v.
Kenyon, 204 U. S. 349; Illinois Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240
U. S. 214, 223), or official bonds required by law (Howard
v. United States, 184 U. S. 676). But these are not helpful in the present case. Here the outstanding fact is that
the bond was taken by the court to protect all creditors.
Any suit upon it must be in furtherance and not in contravention of that purpose.
Holding, as we do, that the manner of the enforcement
of Dempsey's obligation remained within the control of
the District Court, we conclude that the order which is
the subject of the controversy was neither beyond its
jurisdiction (compare Dietzsch v. Huidekoper, 103 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

494, 497; Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U.S. 93, 112;
Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226, 229) nor
an unlawful interference with the prosecution of a suit
in a state court (compare Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U. S.
218, 223).
The judgment must be
Reversed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. V. NORTHERN PACIFIC

RAILWAY CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 470.

Argued February 9, 10, 1933.-Decided March 13, 1933.

1. The rule announced in Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States, 284 U. S. 248, does not mean that a rehearing on an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing rates may be required whenever a carrier's revenues are adversely affected by
change of economic conditions, nor will it be so applied as to
disable the Commission to protect the interests of the public.
P. 492.
2. A carrier is estopped to complain of the refusal of the Commission
to grant a rehearing because of changed economic conditions, where
the evidence of such change and of its effect on the carrier's reve-'
nues could readily have been produced before the Commission long
before it made the order complained of. P. 494.
3. In the absence of the evidence taken before the Commission, the
Court can not say that there was no adequate and sufficient proof
on which to base a finding of the reasonableness of the rates prescribed in this case. P. 499.
4. Existing rates for similar service to other destinations may be used
by the Commission as one test, though not controlling, of the reasonableness of the rates in issue. P. 500.
5. In this case, the Commission's reports of its investigations of the
rates immediately in question and of other related rates, do
not sustain the averments of the petition that the question of reasonableness was disregarded and the order based solely upon a
comparison with rates which were unduly and unreasonably low.
P. 500.

