ROCCO v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. CO.
Syllabus.

269

manded of them until actual receipt of the money. The
constructive payment theory is, we think, untenable.
We conclude Congress did not intend by the use of the
word " accrued" in § 245 (a) (8) to permit the deduction
of interest on policy dividends credited but not paid during the taxable year.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.
ROCCO, EXECUTRIX, v. LEHIGH VALLEY
RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 359.

Argued January 18, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. When because of washouts the presence of employees on the
tracks may be anticipated, the railroad company should exercise
reasonable care to have trains under control and to sound warnings
and to keep lookout at places such as blind curves where the view
is obstructed; and in such situations the rule that the employee on
the track assumes the risk does not apply. Chesapeake & Ohio
Ry. Co. v. Nixon, 271 U. S.218, distinguished. P. 277.
2. A track-inspector, riding a railway tricycle, set out on an inspection trip, as required by his duty, and was run down on a blind
curve by a delayed train, which he must have known was somewhere on the line before him. In an action under the Federal.
Employers' Liability Act, held that his failure to obey a rule
requiring him before leaving to ascertain from the railway office
the whfteabouts of trains, was not to be taken as the primary
and efficient cause of the accident, precluding recovery, but was to
be considered by the jury with the other evidence in determining
the question of his negligence. Davis v. Kennedy, 266 U. S. 147;
Unadilla Valley Ry. Co. v. Caldine, 278 U. S. 139, distinguished.
P. 279.
3. The Employers' Liability Act imposes liability on the carrier. if
the injury or death results "in whole or in part" from its negligence. In this case the questions of negligence and contributory
negligence were for the jury. P. 278.
259 N. Y. 51; 181 N. E. 11, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S. 589, to review the reversal of a
judgment, 231 App. Div. 323, recovered by the executrix

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

of a deceased railway employee, in an action under the
Federal Employers' Liability Act for death by negligence.
The judgment under review was entered in the trial court
pursuant to a remittitur.
Mr. Abraham W. Feinberg for petitioner.
Mr. Harold E. Simpson, with whom Mr. Howard Cobb
was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The petitioner's husband, while riding a track inspection tricycle, was killed in a head-on collision with an
electrically operated passenger train on a single track
branch of the respondent's railroad connecting Ithaca and
Auburn, New York. The line, which skirted the eastern
shore of Cayuga Lake, was subject to washouts in stormy
weather. Primarily to protect four daily passenger trains,
the decedent, Rocco, an experienced employee, was assigned to inspect a section extending from Ithaca to a
point about 71/2 miles north of that city. His schedule
required him to leave Ithaca at 6:30 A. M., preceding the
morning northbound train, and to return in advance of
the southbound train, which arrived at Ithaca at noon;
to go out again at 3:30 P. M., about an hour and a half
before the afternoon train left Ithaca, and to return ahead
of the train from Auburn, which wts due at Ithaca at
8:30 P. M.
On December 8, 1927, there was a high west wind blowing across Lake Cayuga, which had driven the waters over
the track at various points and been the cause of washouts and delays. The southbound train due at Ithaca at
12:23 P. M. was over three hours late. At 3:30 in the
afternoon Rocco left to cover his inspection beat, and was
struck by the train about a mile from Ithaca, on a blind

ROCCO v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. CO.
275

Opinion of the Court.

curve, where he could not see the approaching train nor
the motorman see him.
A rule with which Rocco was familiar forbade trackwalkers to occupy the main track without first ascertaining from the operator the whereabouts of approaching
trains in both directions. Rocco's practice had been to
comply with this rule. On one or more occasions when
he failed to do so he had been reprimanded for the omission. He must have known on the day of the accident
that heavy washouts had occurred and that the train
which should have arrived at 12.23 was somewhere on the
line. It reached Ludlowville, eight miles north of Ithaca,
the last reporting station prior to reaching Ithaca, at 3.14
P. M. This fact Rocco could have ascertained if, in
compliance with the rule, he had inquired of the operator.
Suit was brought in the Supreme Court of New York,
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, by Rocco's
executrix, who averred that his death resulted from negligent failure to operate the train at proper speed, omission
to warn him of its approach by whistle or bell, and breach
of the duty to provide him with a safe place to work.
The defenses were that decedent assumed the risk and
that his negligence barred a recovery. Upon the trial a
verdict of $12,096 was rendered, which the jury reduced
forty per cent. on account of Rocco's contributory negligence. 135 Misc. 639; 239 N. Y. S. 157. The Appellate
Division affirmed judgment for the petitioner (231, App.
Div. 323; 248 N. Y. S. 15). The Court of Appeals ordered
that the complaint be dismissed (259 N. Y. 51; 181 N. E.
11). The case is here on certiorari from the judgment of
dismissal entered by the trial court pursuant to mandate.
The questions presented are whether under the circumstances the respondent -owed the decedent any duty to
warn him of the approach of the train, or to keep a lookout for him; .and whether Rocco's disobedience of the rule

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

was in such sense the primary cause of his death as to
render immaterial any neglect on the part of the motorman. The Court of Appeals decided both questions
against the petitioner.
Respondent relies on the duty of a person employed
on the tracks of a railroad to exercise vigilance for his
own safety, and to keep out of the way of moving trains,
and asserts that the chance of a collision was a risk assumed by an employee assigned to work on the roadbed.
Aerkfetz v. Humphrey8, 145 U. S. 418; Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. Nixan, 271 U. S. 218. Those cases applied
the principle to accidents on a stretch of track where the
workman's view was unobscured. Here, according to the
proof, the curve on which the collision occurred, and obstructions at the side of the roadway, prevented any but
a very short view of the track ahead. We think these
facts required that the jury should determine whether the
-motorman exercised reasonable care to have his train under
control, to sound a warning before entering the curve, and
to be on the lookout for workmen whose presence might
be expected on the day in question, when the waters of
the lake were washing over the tracks at this point and
inspection and repair might be required. Under the authorities cited the decedent assumed the risks ordinarily
incident to his employment as a track inspector, but in the
circumstances shown we do not think they included a failure on the part of the motorman to keep a lookout and to
give warning in places where the view of one who might
be expected to be on the track or approaching in the opposite direction was shut off and the probability of accident
was therefore much greater than where the track is
straight and the view unobstructed. The issues of negligence of the motorman and contributory negligence of
the decedent were for the jury.
The Court of Appeals held, as a matter of- law, that
Rocco's negligence was the primary cause of the accident,
and therefore the petitioner could not maintain the action.

ROCCO v. LEHIGH VALLEY R. CO.
275

Opinion of the Court.

This ruling was made in reliance upon the authorities of
which Davis v. Kennedy, 266 U. S. 147, Unadilla Valley
Ry. Co. v. Caldine, 278 U. S. 139, and Southern Ry. Co. v.
Youngblood, 286 U. S. 313, are typical. These were cases
where a member of a train crew was killed as a result of
disregarding orders to wait at a given point until a train
moving in the opposite direction had passed. In each of
them the decedent's negligence was the proximate and
efficient cause of the accident; in each it was sought to
show that the fatality was in part due to alleged negligence of some other employee in omitting to give the
decedent an order which would have reminded him of the
orders previously given and by which he was bound. In
none was there any negligence on the part of employees
operating the train moving in the opposite direction with
which the collision took place.
These decisions are not controlling in the present case.
There is no suggestion that the rule upon which the respondent relies forbade Rocco to start on his inspection
trip if he ascertained that the approaching train was
within seven or eight miles of Ithaca. It was his duty
to make his afternoon trip. The rule required no more
than that before leaving he should acquaint himself with
the whereabouts of trains on the branch and guide himself accordingly. If he had made inquiry, whether he
should await the arrival of the train, or attempt to meet
it at some point a short distance from that city, was a
matter for his decision. If the rule had forbidden him to
leave under circumstances such as inquiry by him would
have disclosed, this case would be parallel with those cited.
His disregard of the rule was none the less an element in
the case. Whether he was guilty of negligence was to be
determined in the light of all facts he knew, or ought in
the exercise of reasonable care to have known. How he
would have conducted himself, and what precautions he
would have taken had he ascertained the exact whereabouts of the traift, is a matter of speculation. The jury

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 US.

adjudged him guilty of contributory negligence and
moulded its verdict accordingly. But it was open to the
jury, as above shown, to find that the motorman of the
train was also guilty of negligence which contributed to
the collision. Rocco's infraction of the rule was a concurrent cause, but may not in any proper sense be held the
primary cause of the accident. His negligence did not
preclude a finding by the jury that his death was in part
due to the negligence of the respondent's servants. The
Act imposes liability upon the carrier for injury or death
resulting "in whole or in part" from the negligence of
any of its officers, agents or employees (U. S. C. Tit. 45,
§ 51).
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded for
,further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Rever8ed.
and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER are
of opinion that the judgment should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

BURNET, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. GUGGENHEIM.
CERTIORARI TO T1E

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 283. Argued January 11, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. Under the Revenue Act of 1924, §§ 319, 320, taxing transfers by
gift, a transfer of title by deed of trust reserving power of revocation in the grantor was not taxale while that power existed but
became so when it was surrendered. P. 283.
2. The provision was not aimed at every transfer of the legal title
without consideration, but at transfers of title that have the quality
of a gift; and a gift is not consummate until put beyond recall.

P. 288.
3. Uncertainties in statutes should be so resolved as to avoid unnecessary hardships. P. 285.

