212

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

N. W. 224; Hoggett v. State, supra, at p. 271; Hancock v.
Rogers, 140 Ga. 688; 79 S. E. 558; Dilley v. Commonwealth, 243 Ky. 464, 468; 48 S. W. (2d) 1070; Neace v.
Commonwealth, 165 Ky. 739, 742-743; 178 S. W. 1062.
Judgment, affirmed.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. ROYAL MILLING CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 393.

Argued January 20, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.

1. Respondents were engaged in the business of preparing, by a
process of mixing and blending, plain and self-raising flour. Although not themselves grinders of the wheat from which their
product was made, they were doing business under trade names
which included the words "milling company," or words of like
import, and made representations to the trade calculated to convey
the impression that they were grinders. Their product was sold in
interstate commerce in competition with a similar article marketed
by, concerns which were in fact grinders and also by other "blenders," although the latter did not hold themselves out in any way
as grinders. A large number of buyers preferred to purchase the
product prepared by grinders, in the belief that the quality or
price or both were better. Respondents' representations and trade
names induced many buyers to believe that they were grinders.
Proceeding under § 5 of 'the Federal Trade Commission Act, and
upon findings supported by evidence, the Commission ordered
respondents to cease and desist from the use of such trade names
and from making such representations. Held:
(1) The methods of respondents were unfair and were methods
of competition within the meaning of § 5 of the Act. P. 216.
(2) It sufficiently appeared that the proceeding was in the
interest of the public. P. 216.
(3) While the findings and conclusions of the Corunission are
sustained, its orders should. go no further than is reasonably neces-,
sary to correct the evil and preserve the fights of competitors and
public; and, in respect of the use of the trade names, which con-

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. MILLING CO.
212

213

Opinion of the Court.

stitute valuable assets in the nature of good will, this can be done
by requiring proper qualifying words to be used in immediate con-

nection with the names. P. 217.
2. The purchasing public is entitled to protection against a species of
deception whereby they are deceived into purchasing an article
which they do not wish or intend to buy, and which they might or
might not buy if correctly informed as to its origin; and its interest in such protection is specific and substantial. P. 217.
58 F. (2d) 581, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 287 U. S.590, to review a judgment setting
aside certain cease-and-desist orders issued against respondents by the Federal Trade Commission.

Assistant to the Attorney General John Lord O'Brian,
with whom Solicitor General Thacher and Messrs. Charles
H. Weston, William G. Davis, Hammond E. Chafletz,
and Robert E. Healy were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas H. Malone for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE

SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.*
This writ brings here for consideration six orders made
by the Federal Trade Commission under § 5 of the Federal
Trade Commission Act, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717, 719, Title 15,
U. S. C., § 45, which declares that unfair methods of competition in interstate commerce are unlawful. Proceeding under the act' the commission filed separate com,The opinion was announced by the Chief Justice, Mr. Justice
Sutherland being absent from the Bench.
"Whenever the commission shall have reason to believe that any
such person, partnership, or corporation has been or is using any
unfair method of competition in commerce, and if it shall appear to
the commission that a proceeding by it in respect thereof would be
to the interest of the public, it shall issue and serve upon such person,
partnership, or corporation a complaint stating its charges in that
respect, and containing a notice of a hearing upon a day and at a
place therein fixed at least thirty days after the service of said corn-

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

plaints against respondents, each of whom operates a
business, either as a corporation, partnership or an individual, in the City of Nashville, Tennessee. All are engaged in preparing for the market self-rising flour and
plain flour and selling the same in interstate commerce.
None of them grind from the wheat the flour which they
thus prepare and sell, but only mix and blend different
kinds of flour purchased from others engaged in grinding.
After being mixed and sifted, the flour, either plain or
made self-rising, is packed into bags for the market.
Most of the concerns grinding wheat into flour and selling
in the same market also make self-rising flour and blended
plain flour, ground from different sorts of wheat.
One of the respondents does business under the names,
"Royal Milling Company," "Richland Milling Company," and 'Empire Milling Company." The others use
trade names of similar import, all containing the words
"milling company," or "mill," or "manufacturer of
flour "-words which are commonly understood by dealers and the purchasing public to indicate concerns which
grind wheat into flour.
There are other concerns engaged in the business of
producing plain and self-rising flour, by a process of mixing and blending, and selling the product in the same
market in competition with respondents and with the
grinders; but these do not name themselves millers, mills,
plaint .... If upon such hearing the commission shall be of the
opinion that the method of competition in question is prohibited by
this Act, it shall make a report in writing in which it shall state its
findings as to the facts, and shall issue and cause to be served on such
person, partnership, or corporation an order requiring such person,
partnership, or corporation to cease and desist from using such method
of competition.
"The findings of the commission as to the facts, if supported-by
testimony, shall be conclusive."

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. MILLING CO. 215
212

Opinion of the Court.

or milling companies, or hold themselves out in any way
as grinders of grain. The business involved is large and
the competition among the several concerns substantial;
and the use of the- enumerated trade names by the respondents tends to divert and does divert business from
both the grinders and those blenders who do not use such
trade names or an equivalent therefor. Respondents have
circulated written and printed circulars among the trade
which either directly assert, or are calculated to convey
the impression, that their product is composed of flour
manuiactured by themselves from the wheat. These
statements and the use of the trade names under which
respondents do business have induced many consumers
and dealers to believe that respondents are engaged in
grinding from the wheat the product which they put out.
The respondents, early in the proceeding before the commission, offered "to place on their letterheads, bags, invoices, etc., in conspicuous lettering the words: 'Not
Grinders of Wheat.'" This offer the commission evidently
thought it unnecessary to consider, in view of the more
comprehensive conclusion which it reached as to the
remedy.
The findings of the commission, supported by evidence,
in substance embody the foregoing facts, and much else
which for present purposes it is unnecessary to repeat.
From these findings the commission concluded that the
practices of respondents were to the prejudice of their
competitors and of the public and constituted unfair
methods of competition within the meaning of § 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act. Thereupon, the commission issued its orders against respondents to cease and desist from carrying on the business of selling flour in interstate commerce under a trade name or any other name
which included the words "milling company," or words of
like import, and from making representations, designed
to affect interstate commerce, that they or either of them

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 US.

manufacture flour or that the flour sold by them comes
direct from manufacturer to purchaser, etc.
Upon review the circuit court of apI'pals set aside all
orders of the commission, upon the ground that the proceeding by the commission did not appear to be in the
interest of the public. 58 F. (2d) 581.
To sustain the orders of the commission, three requisites must exist: (1) that the methods used are unfair;
(2) that they are methods of competition in interstate
commerce; and (3) that a proceeding by the commission
to prevent the use of the methods appears to be in the
interest of the public. Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladarn Co., 283 U. S. 643, 646-647. Upon the first two of
these we need take no time, for clearly the methods used
were unfair and were methods of competition. Federal
Trade Comm'n v. Winsted Co., 258 U. S. 483, 492-494;
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Raladam Co., supra, at pp.
651-652.
We also are of opinion that it sufficiently appears that
the proceeding was in the interest of the public. It is
true, as this court held in Federal Trade Comm'n v. Klesner, 280 U. S 19, that mere misrepresentation and confusion on the part of purchasers or even that they have been
deceived is not enough. The public interest must be specific and substantial. In that case (p. 28) various ways
in which the public interest may be thus involved were
pointed out; but the list is not exclusive. If consumers
or dealers prefer to purchase a given article because it was
made by a particular manufacturer or class of manufacturers, they have a right to do so, and this right cannot be
satisfied by imposing upon them an exactly similar article,
or one equally as good, but having a different origin.
Here the findings of the commission, supported by evidence, amply disclose that a large number of bu:ers, comprising consumers and dealers, believe that the price or
quality or both are affected to their advantage
by the fact

FED. TRADE COMM'N v. MILLING CO.
212

217

Opinion of the Court.

that the article is prepared by the original grinder of the
grain. The result of respondents' acts is that such purchasers are deceived into purchasing an article which they
do not wish or intend to buy, and which they might or
might not buy if correctly informed as to its origin. We
are of opinion that the purchasing public is entitled to be
protected against that species of deception, and that its
interest in such protection is specific and substantial.
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Balme, 23 F. (2d) 615, 620.
Compare Federal Trade Comm'n v. Winsted Co., supra;
Ohio Leather Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 45 F. (2d)
39, 41. There is nothing in the Klesner case to the contrary.
Although we sustain the commission in its findings and
conclusions to the effect that the use of the trade names
in question and the misstatements referred to constituted
unfair methods of competition within the meaning of the
act, and that its proceeding was in the interest of the
public, we think under the circumstances the commission
went too far in ordering what amounts to a suppression
of the trade names. These names have been long in use,
in one instance beginning as early as 1902. They constitute valuable business assets in the nature of good will,
the destruction of which probably would be highly injurious and should not be ordered if'less drastic means will
accomplish the same result. The orders should go no
further than is reasonably necessary to correct the evil
and preserve the rights of competitors and public; and
this can be done, in the respect under consideration, by
requiring proper qualifying words to be used in immediate connection with the names. See N. Fluegelman
&f Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 37 F. (2d) 59, 61; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Cassoff, 38 F. (2d) 790, 791; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Good-Grape Co., 45 F. (2d) 70, 72.
Compare Herring-Hall-Marvin Safe Co. v. Hall's Safe
Co., 208 U. S. 554, 559; Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

265 U. S. 526, 532; R. Guastavino Co. v. Comerma, 184
Fed. 549; Warshawsky & Co. v. A. Warshawsky & Co.,
257 Ill. App. 571, 584 et seq. This is a matter which the
commission has not considered but which, as the body
having primary jurisdiction, it should, in the first instance,
consider and determine. And in doing so it will be
enough if each respondent be required by modified order
to accompany each use of the name or names with an
explicit representation that respondent is not a grinder
of the grain from which the flour prepared and put out is
made, such representation to be fixed as to form and manner by the commission, upon consideration of the present
record and any further evidence which it may conclude to
take. In respect of other particulars, the orders of the
commission are sustained.
The decree below, therefore, will be reversed, and the
proceeding remanded to the circuit court of appeals to
be disposed of in conformity with this opinion.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS and MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

are of opinion that the decree below should be affirmed.
ANGLO-CHILEAN NITRATE SALES CORP. v.
ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 377. Argued January 19, 1933.-Decided February 6, 1933.
1. A foreign corporation whose sole business in a State consists in
landing, storing and selling in the original packages goods imported
by it from abroad, can not constitutionally be subjected by the
State to an annual "franchise" tax on the doing of such business,
measured by the value of the goods on hand. Pp. 22f, 229.
2. The tax is repugnant to both the imports clause and the commerce clause of the Constitution. P. 225.

