WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.

97

Counsel for Parties.

WILBUR, SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR,

UNITED STATES

EX REL.

v.

CHESTATEE PYRITES

& CHEMICAL CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 335. Argued December 6, 1932.-Decided January 16, 1933.
1. Upon applications within the War Minerals Relief Acts of October
5, 1918, and March 2, 1919, allowances on account of purchase of
equipment and machinery, or salaries paid to executive officers of
the claimant corporation who were its only stockholders, or payments for legal services,-are not inhibited as a matter of law;
and it is for the Secretary of the Interior to determine, as a matter
of fact, whether and to what extent such allowances would be just
and equitable in the peculiar facts of the case. Wilbur v. Vindicator Co., 284 U. S. 231. P. 100.
2. Under the Act of February 13, 1929, the Secretary of the Interior
may be required by mandamus to reconsider on the facts allow-.
ances claimed under the War Minerals Relief Act which he is shown
to have rejected in the erroneous belief that, because of their
nature, they were not permitted by the law. P. 101.
61 App. D. C. 212; 59 F. (2d) 887, affirmed.
CERTIORARI 1

to review the affirmance of a judgment in

mandamus requiring the Secretary of the Interior to proceed with the adjustment of a claim under the War Minerals Relief Act.
Assistant Attorney General Richardson, with whom
Solicitor General Thacher, and Messrs. W. Marvin Smith,
E. C. Finney, and 0. H. Graves were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Edgar Watkins, with whom Messrs. Marion Smith,
Mac Asbill, and Edgar Watkins, Jr., were on the brief, for
respondent.
'287 U. S. 588.

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

288 U.S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Act of February 13, 1929, c. 182, 45 Stat. 1166, provides"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That any claimant who has heretofore filed with the
Secretary of the Interior within the time and manner provided by existing law a claim under said Acts generally
known as the War Minerals Acts (Fortieth Statutes, page
1272, and its amendments) may within one year from the
date of the passage and approval hereof petition the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to review the
final decision of the Secretary of the Interior upon any
question of law which has arisen or which may hereafter
arise in the adjustment, liquidation, and payment of his
claim under said Acts, but the decision of the Secretary
of the Interior on all questions of fact shall be conclusive
and not subject to review by any court."
Proceeding under the quoted provision, respondent corporation presented. a petition to the Supreme CourtFebruary 18, 1929-which alleged that, while endeavoring
to develop supplies of pyrites, it suffered allowable losses
through expenditures for salaries of executive officers, for
taxes, for legal services, also by depreciation of property
taken over upon request of the Department, and that the
Secretary had erroneously decided as matter of law that
it was not entitled to reimbursement therefor. The prayer
asked review and determination of points of law upon
which the Secretary's decision turned and a writ of mandamus directing him to take jurisdiction and allow whatever he might ascertain upon the facts to be just and
equitable.
March 15, 1929, the Secretary made a commendably
frank response to the rule to show cause. He admitted

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
97

Opinion of the Court.

disallowance of the specified items "as shown by copies
of the various decisions of the Secretary of the Interior
and recommendations of the War Minerals Relief Commissioners marked, respectively, Exhibits A, B, C, D
and E, attached to the response," which "are hereby
referred to and made a part hereof." And he further said
"Under the act of February 13, 1929, Public No. 728,
70th Congress, this court is vested with jurisdiction to
review such questions of law as may have been decided
in the disposition of petitioner's said claim by the Secretary of the Interior, and respondent makes no objection
to, but on the other hand invites, a review of such questions. The petition for review presents the sole question
for which petitioner prays a review herein, and it is
assumed that the court will confine its review to the
single question raised." On the same day a demurrer
to the response was interposed.
September 24, 1929, by permission of the court, the
Secretary withdrew the original response and presented a
substituted answer. The order permitting this appears
in the margin.*
*"In accordance with the stipulation of counsel for the respective
parties in this case, dated September 2, 1929, and duly filed herein,
it is this 24th day of September, 1929, adjudged and ordered:

" 1. That he respondent be and he hereby is permitted to withdraw
from the record the response to the relator's petition for mandamus

heretofore filed by him.
"2. That the respondent be and he hereby is permitted to file and
serve an answer in lieu of said response, and that the relator's demurrer to said response which is now on file, be permitted to stand and

be considered a demurrer to such answer.
"3. That the uncertified copies of the findings of the Secretary of

the Interior, of the War Minerals Relief Commission and of the
Assistant Commissioner of War Minerals, which are attached to the
substituted answer to be filed by the respondent in case at law No.
76361, entitled United States of America ex rel. Chestatee Pyrites
and Chemical Corporation v. Ray Lyman Wilbur, Secretary of the

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Opinion of the Court.

288 U.S.

The writings designated "Exhibits A, B, C, D and E,"
by the original response, were attached to the substituted
answer. They show Departmental action relative to the
matter in controversy, June 5, 1919, August 8, 1919, October 15, 1919, September 22, 1922, and September 28, 1922.
Nothing affirmatively points to other important action.
Exhibit "D "-" Memorandum " by Assistant Commissioner Briar-recommends rejection of all the contested
items and states the reasons therefor. Secretary FallExhibit E (September 28, 1922)-accepted this recommendation and made the suggested award.
The item based on purchase price of equipment and
machinery was rejected because "to allow for its purchase
would be in fact to allow for the purchase of property."
The Secretary's decision rested upon an erroneous conclusion as to a point of law which arose in the adjustment of
respondent's claim. His view of the law thus announced,
and long held by the Department, met disapproval in
Wilbur v. Vindicator Consolidated G. M. Co., 284 U. S.
231. The respondent was and is entitled to an adjustment of this and other items as the Secretary "shall determine to be just and equitable" under the law as here
construed.
Payments for salaries to the officers, who were also
respondent's sole stockholders, were disallowed upon the
view that, as matter of law, recovery on account of them
would amount to forbidden profits to owners. Whether
the sole stockholders of a corporation, acting as officers
and managers, should be allowed anything by way of salary or compensation depends on the peculiar facts of each
case. There.is no positive legal inhibition; it is not matter of. law.
Interior, may be considered in this case by the court with the same
effect as though they were original papers.
"4. That this case remain in statu quo upon the docket of this
court until further order of the court."

WILBUR v. UNITED STATES.
97

Opinion of the Court.

The Briar report does not state why the item for legal
services was disallowed-whether because of some undisclosed facts or upon some theory of the law. The latter
appears the more probable. Certainly, it cannot be said
that any rule of law inhibited payment necessary or proper
for legal services.
Here petitioner presents no objection to the ruling
below concerning taxes.
Counsel for respondent correctly states the issue presented to the trial court: "Are the losses suffered for
expenditures for the items involved here within the provisions of the Act of October 5, 1918, as amended and
supplemented by the Act of March 2, 1919?" And,
"with the issue as stated, the only showing required is
that a claim for such losses was made and that such claim
was disallowed because of the belief of the petitioner that
the law did not permit such allowance."
The record discloses that the Secretary's action was
based upon improper construction and application of the
law. The matter must go back for final adjustment upon
consideration of the facts.
We have not overlooked the argument submitted for
petitioner that the five Exhibits above referred to were
not parts of the substituted and amended answers. Nor
the assertions in these answers that the items in question
were rejected upon consideration of the facts. The
Exhibits show what was really done and the reasons
therefor. Conflicting general statements in the answers
must yield. And it seems proper to add that if these
answers had been more carefully prepared, with purpose
to disclose to the court all relevant facts and circumstances, unnecessary difficulties would have been avoided.
The final judgment of the Supreme Court recites that
the cause came on to be heard "upon petition as amended
and answer thereto as amended together with Exhibits
A, B, C, D, and E to said answer, and the demurrer"

OCTOBER TERM, 1932.
Syllabus.

288 U.S.

etc. The Exhibits were correctly treated as parts of the
amended answer. But a requirement that the parties
recast the pleadings would have been proper and helpf il.
The petition here for certiorari does not mention the
conflicting view in respect of the Exhibits or deal with
them as parts of the record. It failed adequately to advise
us concerning the real situation. But to avoid possible
misunderstanding, it has seemed best to retain jurisdiction
rather than to dismiss the writ because improvidently
granted.
The judgment of the Supreme Court affirmed by the
Court of Appeals authorized a writ of mandamus directing that the Secretary of the Interior should treat the
disputed items in the respondent's claim as permissible
as matter of law and to proceed with their final adjustment upon consideration of all the facts. We approve
this action, and affirm the judgment.
Affirmed.
COOK v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 82. Argued December 7, 1932.-Decided January 23, 1933.
1. The Treaty of May 22, 1924, with Great Britain, as both its
language and its history show, was intended to deal completely
with the search and seizure beyond our territorial limits of British
vessels suspected of smuggling intoxicating liquors into this country.
P. 112.
2. Article II of the treaty declares that His Britannic Majesty " will
raise no objection " to the boarding of private vessels under the
British flag outside of the three mile limit of territorial waters in
order that inquiries may be made of those on board and an examination be made of the ship's papers, for the purpose of ascertaining
whether the vessel or those on board are endeavoring to import,
or have imported, alcoholic beverages into the United States, in
violation of the laws there in force. When this shows reasonable

