OCTOBER TERM, 1999
Syllabus

FIORE v. WHITE, WARDEN, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE THIRD CIRCUIT
No. 98-942. Argued October 12, 1999-Decided November 30, 1999
Petitioner Fiore and his codefendant Scarpone were convicted of "operat[ing] a hazardous waste" facility without a "permit," Pa. Stat. Ann.,
Tit. 35, §6018.401(a), because their operation deviated significantly from
the terms of the permit they possessed. Fiore appealed his conviction
to the Pennsylvania Superior Court, which affirmed; but Scarpone appealed his conviction to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court, which
reversed. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court denied further review of
Fiore's case, and his conviction became final. However, it subsequently
affirmed the Commonwealth Court's decision in Scarpone's case, finding
that § 6018.401(a) does not apply to those who possess a permit but deviate radically from the permit's terms. After the Pennsylvania courts
refused to reconsider Fiore's identical conviction, he sought federal habeas relief, arguing, inter alia,that the Federal Constitution required
that his conviction be set aside because his conduct was not criminal
under §6018.401(a). The District Court granted his petition, but the
Third Circuit reversed, primarily because it believed that state courts
have no obligation to apply their decisions retroactively.
Held: To help determine the proper state-law predicate for this Court's
determination of the federal constitutional questions raised here, the
Court certifies to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court the question
whether the interpretation of § 6018.401(a) set forth in Commonwealth
v. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 279, 634 A. 2d 1109, 1112, states the correct
interpretation of Pennsylvania law at the date Fiore's conviction became
final. Scarpone marked the first time that the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court had interpreted the statute. Because that authoritative interpretation came only after Fiore's conviction became final, this Court
must know whether the Scarpone construction stated the statute's correct understanding at the time Fiore's conviction became final, or
whether it changed the interpretation then applicable. Judgment and
further proceedings in this case are reserved pending receipt of the
Pennsylvania Supreme Court's response. Pp. 28-30.
149 F. 3d 221, question certified.
BREYER, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

FIORE v. WHITE
Opinion of the Court

James Brandon Lieber argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the briefs were M. Jean Clickner and Harold
Gondelman.
Robert A. Graci, Assistant Executive Deputy Attorney
General of Pennsylvania, argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were D. Michael Fisher, Attorney
General, pro se, and Andrea F. McKenna, Senior Deputy Attorney General.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania convicted codefendants William Fiore and David Scarpone of violating a provision of Pennsylvania law forbidding any person to "operate
a hazardous waste" facility without a "permit." Pa. Stat.
Ann., Tit. 35, § 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993) (reprinted at Appendix A, infra). Each codefendant appealed to a different
intermediate state court, one of which affirmed Fiore's conviction, the other of which reversed Scarpone's. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court denied further review of Fiore's
case, and his conviction became final. However, that court
agreed to review Scarpone's case, and it subsequently held
that the statutory provision did not apply to those who, like
Scarpone and Fiore, possessed a permit but deviated radiJUSTICE BREYER

*SaulM. Pilchen,Peter Goldberger,and Lisa BondareffKemler filed a

brief for the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers urging
reversal.
A brief of amici curiae urging affirmance was filed for the State of
Alabama et al. by Bill Pryor, Attorney General of Alabama, Michael
B. Billingsley, Assistant Attorney General, Dan Schweitzer, and Thomas

R. Keller, Acting Attorney General of Hawaii, and by the Attorneys General for their respective States as follows: Bruce M. Botelho of Alaska,
Janet Napolitano of Arizona, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, M. Jane Brady of
Delaware, Robert A Butterworth of Florida, James E. Ryan of Illinois,
Thomas J Miller of Iowa, Carla J Stovall of Kansas, Don Stenberg of
Nebraska, Frankie Sue Del Papaof Nevada, W A Drew Edmondson of
Oklahoma, Hardy Myers of Oregon, Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island,
Charles M. Condon of South Carolina, Mark L. Earley of Virginia, and
Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington.

Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

cally from the permit's terms. Consequently, it set aside
Scarpone's conviction.
In light of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's decision in
Commonwealth v. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 634 A. 2d 1109
(1993), Fiore asked the Pennsylvania courts to reconsider
his identical conviction. They denied his request. He then
brought a federal habeas corpus petition in which he argued,
among other things, that Pennsylvania's courts, either as a
matter of Pennsylvania law or as a matter of federal constitutional law, must apply the Scarpone interpretation of
the statute to his identical case. If this proposition of law
is correct, he asserted, it would follow that the Commonwealth failed to produce any evidence at all with respect
to one essential element of the crime (namely, the lack of a
permit). On this reasoning, Fiore concluded that the Federal Constitution requires his release. See Jackson v. Virginia,443 U. S. 307, 316 (1979); In re Winship, 397 U. S. 358,
364 (1970).
The Federal District Court granted the habeas petition,
but the Court of Appeals reversed that decision. We agreed
to review the appellate court's rejection of Fiore's claim.
Before deciding whether the Federal Constitution requires
that Fiore's conviction be set aside in light of Scarpone,
we first must know whether Pennsylvania itself considers
Scarpone to have explained what Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35,
§6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993), always meant, or whether Pennsylvania considers Scarpone to have changed the law. We
invoke the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's certification procedure in order to obtain that court's view of the matter. See
Appendix B, infra.
I
The relevant background circumstances include the
following:
1. Fiore owned and operated a hazardous waste disposal
facility in Pennsylvania. Scarpone was the facility's general
manager. Pennsylvania authorities, while conceding that

FIORE v. WHITE
Opinion of the Court

Fiore and Scarpone possessed a permit to operate the facility, claimed that their deliberate alteration of a monitoring
pipe to hide a leakage problem went so far beyond the terms
of the permit that the operation took place without a permit
at all. A jury convicted them both of having "operate[d]
a hazardous waste storage, treatment or disposal facility"
without a "permit." Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35, § 6018.401(a)
(Purdon 1993); see Commonwealth v. Fiore, CC No. 8508740
(Ct. Common Pleas, Allegheny Cty., Pa., Jan. 19, 1988), p. 2,
App. 6 (marking date of conviction as Feb. 18, 1986). The
trial court upheld the conviction, despite the existence of
a permit, for, in its view, the "alterations of the . . .pipe
represented such a significant departure from the terms
of the existing permit that the operation of the hazardous
waste facility was 'un-permitted' after the alterations were
undertaken .... " Id., at 48, App. 44.
2. Fiore appealed his conviction to the Pennsylvania Superior Court. See 42 Pa. Cons. Stat. §742 (1998) (granting
the Superior Court jurisdiction over all appeals from a final
order of a court of common pleas). That court affirmed the
conviction "on the basis of the opinion of the court below."
Commonwealth v. Fiore,No. 00485 PGH 1988 (May 12,1989),
pp. 2-3, App. 99-100. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court denied Fiore leave to appeal on March 13, 1990; shortly thereafter, Fiore's conviction became final.
3. Fiore's codefendant, Scarpone, appealed his conviction
to the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court. See 42 Pa.
Cons. Stat. §762(a)(2)(ii) (1998) (granting the Commonwealth
Court jurisdiction over appeals in regulatory criminal cases).
That court noted the existence of a "valid permit," found
the Commonwealth's interpretation of the statute "strained
at best," and set Scarpone's conviction aside. Scarpone v.
Commonwealth, 141 Pa. Commw. 560, 567, 596 A. 2d 892, 895
(1991). The court wrote:
"The alteration of the monitoring pipe was clearly a violation of the conditions of the permit. But to say that

Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

the alteration resulted in the operation of a new facility
which had not been permitted is to engage in a semantic
exercise which we cannot accept ....
[W]e will not let
[the provision's] language be stretched to include activities which clearly fall in some other subsection." Ibid.
The Pennsylvania Supreme Court affirmed the Commonwealth Court's conclusion. It wrote:
"[Tihe Commonwealth did not make out the crime of
operating a waste disposal facility without a permit ....
Simply put, Mr. Scarpone did have a permit ....
[T]o
conclude that the alteration constituted the operation
of a new facility without a permit is a bald fiction we
cannot endorse.... The Commonwealth Court was right
in reversing Mr. Scarpone's conviction of operating without a permit when the facility clearly had one." Commonwealth v. Scarpone, 535 Pa., at 279, 634 A. 2d, at
1112.
4. Fiore again asked the Pennsylvania Supreme Court to
review his case, once after that court agreed to review
Scarpone's case and twice more after it decided Scarpone.
See Appellee's Supplemental App. in No. 97-3288 (CA3),
pp. 59, 61 (including docket sheets reflecting Fiore's filings
on Jan. 30, 1992, Jan. 24, 1994, and Oct. 18, 1994). The court
denied those requests.
5. Fiore then sought collateral relief in the state courts.
The Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pa., refused to grant Fiore's petition for collateral relief-despite
Scarpone-because"at the time of... conviction and direct
appeals, the interpretation of the law was otherwise," and
"[t]he petitioner is not entitled to a retroactive application
of the interpretation of the law set forth in Scarpone."
Commonwealth v. Fiore, CC No. 8508740 (Aug. 18, 1994),
p. 6. On appeal, the Superior Court affirmed, both because
Fiore had previously litigated the claim and because Fiore's
"direct appeal was no longer pending when the Supreme

FIORE v. WHITE
Opinion of the Court

Court made the ruling which [Fiore] now seeks to have applied to his case." Commonwealth v. Fiore, 445 Pa. Super.
401, 416, 665 A. 2d 1185, 1193 (1995).
6. Fiore sought federal habeas corpus relief. As we previously pointed out, supra, at 25, he argued that Pennsylvania had imprisoned him "for conduct which was not criminal under the statutory section charged." App. 194. The
Federal District Court, acting on a Magistrate's recommendation, granted the petition. The Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit reversed, however, primarily because it believed that "state courts are under no constitutional obligation to apply their decisions retroactively." 149 F. 3d 221,
222 (1998).
7. We subsequently granted Fiore's petition for certiorari
to consider whether the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause requires that his conviction be set aside.
II
Fiore essentially claims that Pennsylvania produced no
evidence whatsoever of one element of the crime, namely,
that he lacked "a permit." The validity of his federal claim
may depend upon whether the interpretation of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in Scarpone was always the statute's meaning, even at the time of Fiore's trial. Scarpone
marked the first time the Pennsylvania Supreme Court had
interpreted the statute; previously, Pennsylvania's lower
courts had been divided in their interpretation. Fiore's and
Scarpone's trial court concluded that §6018.401(a)'s "permit"
requirement prohibited the operation of a hazardous waste
facility in a manner that deviates from the permit's terms,
and the Superior Court, in adjudicating Fiore's direct appeal,
accepted the trial court's interpretation in a summary unpublished memorandum. Then, the Commonwealth Court,
in Scarpone's direct appeal, specifically rejected the interpretation adopted by the Superior Court in Fiore's case.
And the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in Scarpone set forth

Cite as: 528 U. S. 28 (1999)
Opinion of the Court

its authoritative interpretation of the statute, affirming the
Commonwealth Court only after Fiore's conviction became
final. For that reason, we must know whether the Pennsylvania Supreme Court's construction of the statute in
Scarpone stated the correct understanding of the statute
at the time Fiore's conviction became final, or whether it
changed the interpretation then applicable. Compare, e. g.,
Buradus v. General Cement Prods. Co., 52 A. 2d 205, 208
(Pa. 1947) (stating that "[iun general, the construction placed
upon a statute by the courts becomes a part of the act, from
the very beginning"), with Commonwealth v. Fiore, supra,
at 416-417, 665 A. 2d, at 1193; Commonwealth v. Fiore,
CC No. 8508740 (Aug. 18, 1994), at 6 (refusing to apply the
Scarpone interpretation because "at the time of [Fiore's]
conviction and direct appeals, the interpretation of the law
was otherwise").
III
We certify the following question to the Pennsylvania
Supreme Court pursuant to that court's Rules Regarding
Certification of Questions of Pennsylvania law:
Does the interpretation of Pa. Stat. Ann., Tit. 35,
§ 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993), set forth in Commonwealth
v. Scarpone, 535 Pa. 273, 279, 634 A. 2d 1109, 1112 (1993),
state the correct interpretation of the law of Pennsylvania at the date Fiore's conviction became final?
We respectfully request that the Pennsylvania Supreme
Court accept our certification petition because, in our view,
the answer to this question will help determine the proper
state-law predicate for our determination of the federal constitutional questions raised in this case.
We recommend that the Pennsylvania Supreme Court designate William Fiore (the petitioner here) as appellant and
both Gregory White, Warden, and the Attorney General of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (the respondents here)
as appellees.

FIORE v. WHITE
Appendix A to opinion of the Court

The Clerk of this Court is directed to transmit to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania a copy of this opinion and
the briefs and records ified with this Court in this case.
Judgment and further proceedings in this case are reserved
pending our receipt of a response from the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania.
It is so ordered.
APPENDIX A TO OPINION OF THE COURT
Pennsylvania Stat. Ann. § 6018.401(a) (Purdon 1993)
provides:
"No person or municipality shall store, transport, treat,
or dispose of hazardous waste within this Commonwealth unless such storage, transportation, treatment,
or disposal is authorized by the rules and regulations
of the department; no person or municipality shall
own or operate a hazardous waste storage, treatment
or disposalfacility unless such person or municipality
has first obtained a permit for the storage, treatment
and disposal of hazardous waste from the department;
and, no person or municipality shall transport hazardous
waste within the Commonwealth unless such person or
municipality has first obtained a license for the transportation of hazardous waste from the department."
(Emphasis added.)
Section 6018.606(f) establishes criminal penalties for a
violation of § 6018.401 and provides:
"Any person who stores, transports, treats, or disposes
of hazardous waste within the Commonwealth in violation of [§ 6018.401] ... shall be guilty of a felony of the

second degree and, upon conviction, shall be sentenced
to pay a fine of not less than $2,500 but not more than
$100,000 per day for each violation or to imprisonment
for not less than two years but not more than ten years,
or both." (Footnote omitted.)

Cite as: 528 U. S. 23 (1999)
Appendix B to opinion of the Court

APPENDIX B TO OPINION OF THE COURT
"RULES REGARDING CERTIFICATION OF
QUESTIONS OF PENNSYLVANIA LAW
"1. This Court will accept Certification Petitions, on a trial
basis, from January 1, 1999 to January 1, 2000.
"2. Any of the following courts may file a Certification
Petition with this Court:
"a. The United States Supreme Court; or
"b. Any United States Court of Appeals.
"3. A court may file a Certification Petition either on the
motion of a party or sua sponte.
"4. A Certification Petition shall contain the following:
"a. A brief statement of the nature and stage of the
proceedings in the petitioning court;
"b. A brief statement of the material facts of the case;
"c. A statement of the question or questions of Pennsylvania law to be determined;
"d. A statement of the particular reasons why this
Court should accept certification; and
"e. A recommendation about which party should be
designated Appellant and which Appellee in subsequent
pleadings ified with this Court.
"f. The petitioning court shall attach to the Certification Petition copies of any papers filed by the parties
regarding certification, e. g., a Motion for Certification,
a Response thereto, a Stipulation of Facts, etc." Pa.
Rules of Court, p. 745 (1999).

