OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

GRACE and Another v. AMERICAN- CENTRAL INSURANCE COMPANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TIE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 19th, 1883.-Decided November 19th, 1883.

.Ageht-Contract-Evidence-Insuranas-furisdition-Plead
ng.
1. A fire insurance policy contained this clause : "This insdrance may be terminated at any time at the request of the assured, in which case the
company shall retain only the customary short rates for the time the
policy has been in force. The insurance may also be terminated at any

time at the option of the company, on giving notice to that effect and
refunding a ratable proportion of the premium for the unexpired term of
the policy. It is a part of this contract that any person other than the
assured, who may have procured the insurance to be taken by this company, shall be deemedto be the agent of the assured named in this policy,
and not of this company under any circumstances whatever, or in any
transactions relating to this insurance :" Red, that this clause imports
nothing more than that the person obtaining the insurance was to be
deemed the agent of the insured in matters immediately connected with
the procurement of the policy ; 'that where his employment did not extend beyond the procurement of the insurance, his agency ceased upon
the execution of the policy, and subsequent notice to him of its termination by the company was not notice to the insured.
2. Parol evidence of usage or custom among insurance men to give such notice
to the person procuring the insurance was inadmissible to vary the terms
of the contract.
3.' The doctrine reaffirmed, that when jurisdiction of the circuit court depends
upon" the citizenship of the parties, such citizenship, or the facts which in'
legal intendment constitute it, must be distinctly and positively averred in
the pleadings, or appear affirmatively and with equal distinctness in
other parts of the record. An averment that parties reside, or that a
firm does business, in. a particular State, or that a firm is "of' that
State, is not sufficient to 'holv citizenship in such State.
4. Where the record does not show a case within the jurisdiction of a circuit
court, this court will take notice of that fact, although no question as to
jurisdiction had been raised by the parties.

This was an action upon a policy of fire insurance issued
September 26th, 1877, by the -American Central Insurance
Company of St. Louis to the firm of Win. R. Grace & Co.
The circumstances under which it was issued were these: A

GRACE v. AMERICAN CENTRAL INS. CO.

279

Statement of Facts.
clerk of Win. R. Grace & Co., charged with the duty of effecting insurance against loss by fire upon their property, employed one W. IR. Moyes, a broker in the city of New York, to
obtain insurance, in a specified amount, for his principals.
Moyes instructed one Anthony, an insurance broker and agent
in Brooklyn, who had on previous occasions obtained policies
for Grace & Co., to procure the required amount ot insurance.
Anthony obtained the policy in suit from the general agents in
New York city of the defendant company, mailed or delivered
it to Moyes, and by the latter it was delivered to Grace & Co.
not later than the day succeeding its date. On the morning
of October 6th one Carrol, for the insurance company, verbally
notified Anthony that the company refued to. carry the risk,
and required the .policy to be returned. There was some conflict in the testimony as to what occurred between Carrol and
Anthony on this occasion. But, in the view which the court
took of the case, it was conceded that Anthony gave Carrol to
understand that the policy would be returned to the company
or its agents. The property insured was destroyed by fire on
the night of October 6th, 1877, or early on the morning of the
7th. Prior to the fire neither the insured, nor their clerk by
whose instructions the policy was obtained, had any knowledge or notice of the conversation between Carrol and Anthony,
or of the fact that the company had elected not to carry the
risk. At the trial it was admitted that the contract between
the parties was fully executed upon the delivery of the policy
to the insured. The plaintiff sued out his writ of error to
reverse that judgment.
The eighth clause of the policy was in these words:
"This insurance may be terminated at any time at the request
of the assured, in which case the company shall retain only the
-customary short rates for the time the policy has been in force.
The insurance may also be terminated at any time at the option
of the company, on giving notice to that effect and refunding a
ratable proportion of the premium for the unexpired term of the
policy. It is a part of this contract that any person other than
the assured, who nmay have procured the insurance to be taken by
this company, shall be deemed to be the agent of the assured

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Defendant in Error.

named in this policy, and not of this company under any circumstances whatever, or in any transaction relating to this insurance."
The court refused, although so requested by plaintiffs, to rule
that Anthony was not, within the meaning of the policy, their
agent for the purpose of receiving notice of its termination;
but charged the jury, in substance, that Anthony was, for such
purpose, to be deemed the agent of the insured. Exception
was taken in proper form by plaintiffs, as well to the refusal to
give their instruction, as to that given by the court to the jury.
A verdict was returned for the company, and judgment thereon
was entered. The plaintiff sued out his writ of error to reverse
thit judgment.
-Mr. Winchester Britt n, for the plaintiffs in error, cited, as to
the construction of the contract, Whited v. GermaniaFire Ins.
Co., 76 N. Y. 415 ; .Rohrbachv. Same, 62 N. Y. 47 ; Alexander
v. Same, 66 N. Y. 464; 'FanSchoick-v. N7iagara FireIns. Co.,
68 N. Y. 434; Standard Oil Co. v. Tviumph,Ins. Co., 64: N. Y.
85 ; aud as to usage and custom, Bradley v. Wlheeler, 44 N. Y.
495; .iggili
v. -Moore, 34 N. Y. 417; Esterly v. Cole, 3
Corns. 502; -Dawson v. -ittle, 4 Hill, 107; TFeeler v. f'ewbould, 5 Duer, 29; Brueck v. Phenix Ins. Co., 21 Him,542;
Wallis v. Bailey, 49 N. Y. 464; Bershire Woolen Co. v. Proctor, 7 Cush. 417; Cunningham v. Fonblanque,6 0. & P. 44;
Garey v. ffeagher, 33 Ala. 630; Chesapeake Bank v. Swain, 29
Md. 483; Aftills v. Hallock, 3 Edw. Oh. 652; Hfaskin8 v. War'en, 115 Mass. 514; Randall v. Smith, 63 Me. 105, and note;
Adams v. Pittsbunrg Ins. Co., 76 P~nn. State 411; Harris v,
Turnridge, 83 N. Y. 92; Lawson on Usages and Customs,
pp. 23,48, 52, 55, 63, 89, 97; Fisherv. Sargeant,10 Cush. 250;
Winsor v. Dellaway, 4 Met. 221.
.W1..George W. Parsons,for the defendant in error, cited, as to
the construction of the contract, Story on Agency, ยง 140 ; Standard Oil Co. v. Insurance Co., 641. Y. 85; Anderson v. Connley,
21 Wend. 279; Insurance Co. v. Insurance Co., 66 N. Y. 119;
Insurance Co. v. Stark, 6 (ranch, 268; Bennett v. Insurance
Co., 81 N. Y. 273; Insurance Co. v. -Mueller (Supreme Ct. of

GRACE v. AMERICAN CENTRAL INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Penn.), 8 Ins. Law Jour. 263; Armour v. Insurance Co., 47
N. Y. Superior Ct.R. 352; Bank of U. S. v. Davis, 2 111l, at
451; .AcEwen v. Insura'nce Co. 5 Hill, 101; Fulton, Bank v.
Sharon Canal Co., 4-Paige, at 137; Boyd v. Vanderkemp, 1
Barb. Ch.273; and as to usage, Parsons on Contracts, 52; Hinton
v. Locke, 5 Hill, 437; .XcPltersonv. Cox, 86 N. Y. 472; 2 Phillips
on Evidence (4th Am. Ed.), 798; Blacett v. Royal Exch.Ass.
Co., 2 Cromp. and J. 244; Hinton v. Locke, 5 Hill, 437; Grant
v. .addox, 15 M. and W. 737; Yates v. Pyne, 6 Taunt. 446;
KYeener v. Bank of United States, , Penn. State 237; Sweet v.
Jenkins, 1 Rhode Island, 147; .Xumford v. -Hallett,1 John. R.
433;' Rankin v. Insurance Co., 1 Hall (N. Y.), 682; Partridge
v. Life Insurance Co., 1 Dill. 139 ; Barnardv. KYellogg, 10 Wall.
383; Steinbach v. Insurance Co., 13 Wall. 183; Blackctt v.
Assurance Co., 2 Cromp. & Jer. 244; Rogers v. Tnsurance
Co., I Story's R. 603; Winnesheik Ins. Co. v. H-olzrafe, 53
Ill. 516.
iR. JusTICE HLAnLw delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts in the above langvage, he said:
The charge, in connection with the opinion delivered by the
learned judge who presided at the trial, indicates that, in his
judgment, the words in the eighth clase-L" It is a part of this
contract that any person, other than the assured, who may have
procured the insurance to be taken by this company, shall be
deemed to be the'agent of the assured named in thig policy,"were intended to be qualified by the words "in, any transaction relating to this insurance." Upon this ground it 'was
ruled that notice of the termination of the policy was properly
given to Anthony, who personally procured the insurance. We
do not concur in this interpretation of the contract. The
words in their natural and ordinary signification import
nothing more than that the person obtaining the insurance was
to be deemed the agent of the insured in allmattersimmediately
connected with the procurement of the policy. Representations by that person in procuring the policy were to be
regarded as made by him in the capacity of agent of the
insured. His knowledge or information, pending negotiations

OCTOBER TERM, .1883.
Opinion of thb Court.

for insmnnce, touching the subject-matter of the contract, was
to be deemed the knowledge or information of the insured.
When the contract was consummated by the delivery, of the
policy he ceased to be the agent of the insured, if his employment was solely to procure the insurance. What the company
meant by the clause in question, so far as it relates to the
agency, for the one party or the other, of the person procuring
the insurance, was, to exclude the possibility of such person
being regarded as its agent, "under any circumstances whatever, or in any transaction relating to this insurance." This,
we think, is not only the proper interpretation of the contract,
but the only one at all consistent with the intention of the
parties as gathered frbm the words used. There ii, in our
opinion, no room for a different interpretation. If the construction were doubtful, then the case would be one for the
application of the familiar rule that the words of an instrument
are to be taken most strongly against the party employing
them, and, therefore, in cases like this, most favorably to the
insured. The words are thodse of the company, not of the
assured. If their meaning be obscure it is the fault of the company. If its purpose was to make notice to the person procuring
the insurance, of the termination of the policy, equivalent to
notice to the insured, a form of expression should have been
adopted which would clearly convey that idea, and thus prevent either party from being caught or misled.
As the uncontradicted evidence was that Anthony's agency
or employment extended only to the procurement of the
insurance, the jury should have been instructed that his
agency ceased when the policy was executed, and that notice
to him, subsequently, of its termination was ineffectual to work
a rescission of the contract.
At the trial below evidence was offered by the company, and
was permitted, over the objection of plaintiffs, to go to the
jury, to the effect that, when this contract was made, there
eisted in the cities of New York and Brooklyn an established,
well-known general custom in fire insurance business, which
authorized an insurance company, entitled upon notice to
terminate its policy, to give such notice to the broker by or

GRACE v. AMERICAN CENTRAL INS. CO.
Opinion. of the Court.

through whom the insurance was procured. This evidence was
inadmissible because it contradicted the manifest intention of
the parties as indic'ated by the policy. The objection to its introduction should have been sustained. The contract, as we have
seen, did not authorize the company to cancel it upon -notice
merely to the party procuring the insurance-his agency,
according to- the evidence, not exbending beyond the consummation of the contract. The contract, by necessary implication, required notice to be given to the insured, or to some
one who was his agent to receive such, notice. An express
written contract, embodying in clear aid positive terms the
intention of the parties, cannot be varied by evidence of
usage or custom. In Barnard v. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, this
court quotes with approval the languiage of Lord Lyndhurst
in 'Blackett v. Royal Exchange Assurance Co., 2 Cromp. &
Jervis, 244, that "usage may be admissible to explain what is
doubtful; i is never admissible to contradict what is plain."
This rule is based upon the theory that the parties, if aware of
any usage or custom relating to the subject-matter of their
negotiations, have so expressed their intention as to take the
contract out of the operation of any rules established by mere
usage or custom. Whatever apparent conflict existsg in the
adjudged cases as to the office of custom or usage in the interpretation of contracts, the established doctrine of this court is
as we have stated. Partridgev. Insurance Co., 15 Wall. 573 ;
Robinyom v. Vnited States, 13 Wall. 363; The .Delaware, 14
Wall. 579; NVat. Bank v. Burkhardt,100 U. S. 686.
The record in this case presents a question of jurisdiction
which, although not raised by either party in the court belowor in this court, we do not feel at liberty to pass without notice.
Sulvam v. Fultan Steamboat Co., 6 Wheat. 450; Jackson v.
Ashton, 8 Pet. 148. As the jurisdiction of the circuit court
is limited, in the sense that it has no other jurisdiction than
that conferred by the Constitution and laws of the United
States, the presumption is that a cause is without its jurisdiction unless the contrary affirmatively appears.
Tur'ner v.
Bank qf .North America, 4 Dall. 8; Ex }oarte Smith, 941 U. S.
455 ; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S.646. In the last case it is said

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

that "where jurisdiction depends upon the citizenship of the
parties, such citizenship, or the facts which in legal intenhment
constitute it, should be distinctly and positively averred in the
pleadings, or they should appear afflrmatively and with equal
distinctness in other parts'of the record." Railway Co. v.
Ramsay, 22 Wall. 322; Briges v. ,_perry, 95 U. S. 401. In
Brown v. Keene, 8 Pet. 112, it is declared not to be sufficient
that jurisdiction may be inferred argumentatively from averments in the pleadings; that the averments should be positive.
The present case was comnuenced in the Supreme Court of
New York, and was thence removed, on the petition of the defendant, to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York. The record does not satisfactorily
show the citizenship of the parties. The complaint filed in the
State court shows that the firm of Win. ZR. Grace & Co., composed of Win. R. Grace, Michael P. Grace, and Charles ZR. Flint,
is doing business in New York, and that Win. R. Grace and
Charles R. Flint are residents of that State. The petition for the
removal of the cause shows that the defendant is a corporation
of the State of Missouri; that Win. ZR. Grace and Charles ZR. Flint
reside in New York; and that Michael P. Grace is a resident
of some State or country unknown to defendant, but other
than the State of Missouri. The record, however, fails to show
of what State the plaintiffs are citizens. They may be doing
business in and have a residence in New York without,, necessarily, being citizens of that State. They are not shown to be
citizens of some State other than. Missouri. Bing1am,v. Cabot,
a Dall. 382; Abercrombie v. Dupuis, 1 Cranch, 343; Jakon v.
Tiwentyman, 2 Pet. 136; Sullivan v. Fulton Steamboat Co., 6
Wheat. 450; IforntJ all v. Collector, 9 Wall. 560; -Brown v.
Zeene, 8utPra; Robertson v. Cease, supra.
It is true that the petition for removal, after stating the residence of the plaintiffs, alleges "that there is, and was at the
time when this action was brought, a controversy therein
between citizens of different States." But that is to be deemed
the unauthorized conclusion of law which the petitioner draws
from the facts previbusly averred. Then there is the bond
given by the defendant on the removal of the cause, which

LOUISIANA v. MAYOR OF NEW ORLEANS.

285

Syllabus.
recites the names of the firm of Wm. R. Grace & Co., and
describes it as "of the county of Kings and State of New
York." If that bond may be considered as part of the record
for the purpose of ascertaining the citizenship of the parties,
the averment that the plaintiffs are "of the county of Kings
and State of New York" is insufficient to show citizenship.
ingham v. Cabot, 3 Dll. 382; Wood v. T agnon, 2 Cranch, 9;
Jackson v. Aiton, supra.
As the judgment must be reversed and a new trial had, we
have felt it to be our duty, notwithstanding the record, as presented to us, fails to disclose a case of which the court below
could take cognizance, to indicate for the benefit of parties at
another trial the conclusion reached by us on the merits.
And we have called attention to the insufficient showing as to
the jurisdiction of the circuit court, so that, upon the return of
the cause, the parties may take such further steps, touching
that matter, as they may be advised.
The judgm2ent 8 reversed and the cause Pemanded,with directions to set aside the judgment, andfor such further roceedings as may not be inconsistent with this opinion.

STATE OF LOUISIANA ex rel. FOLSOM v. MAYOR
AND ADMINISTRATORS OF NEW ORLEANS.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
Argued April 9th and 10th, 1883.-Decided November 19th. 3883.
ConatitulionalLaw-Contracl-Judgment-Hunicipap Cooration-Tort.
1. The right to demand reimbursement from a municipal corporation for damages caused by a mob, is not founded on contract. It is a statutory right.,
and may be given or taken away at pleasure.
2. The fact that a statutory right to demand reimbursement from a municipal
corporation for damages caused by a mob has been converted into a judgment does not make of the obligation such a contract as is contemplated
in the provision of Article I. Section 10 of the Constitution, that no State
shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts.
8. The term "contract," as used in the Constitution, signifies the agreement of

