WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. 357
Statement of Facts.

WARIER and Others v. CON ECTIOUT MUTUAL LIFE

INSURANCE COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued November 13th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.

Mortgage-Power.
A husband and wife join in a mortgage of the wife's real estate to secure a
debt of the husband contracted simultaneously with the execution of the
mortgage. The wife dies before maturity of the debt, leaving a will devising all her estate to her husband iV trust to enjoy the income during his
life, with remainder to her children at his decease :-But provided, That
said Cyrenius Beers may encumber the same by way of mortgage or trust
deed or otherwise, and renew the same for the purpose of raising money to
pay off any and all encumbrances now on said property, and which trust
deed or mortgage so made shall be as valid as though be held an absolute
estate in said property. The will appointed the husband as sole executor,
and waived all security: Held, that the executor was empowered by the
will to extend the mortgage debt at maturity without notice to the devisees
of the remainder, and without affecting the mortgage security.
The husband, on the maturity of the debt secured by the mortgage, extended it
by an instrument which did not refer to the will, or to the power which it
,conferred : Held, that, under the circumstances, it was to be construed as
an execution of the power.

Bill to foreclose a mortgage, and cross-bill to have the mortgage set aside. The appellees filed the bill as plaintiffs in the
court below, against the appellants and one Charles G. Beers,
their brother, and against other parties, to foreclose a mortgage on real estate in Chicago. The appellants filed in that
suit their cross-bill, setting forth their title to the mortgaged
property, alleging that the mortgage was a cloud upon it, and
praying a decree for the discharge of the mortgage. The controversy arose on the following facts:
On the 24th February, 1869, one Cyrenius Beers borrowed
of the insurance company, appellees, $20,000, and executed and
delivered to thean his bond conditioned for the payment of that
sum, with interest, payable semi-annually, at the rate of eight
per cent. per annumn. On the same day Beers and Mary Beers,
his wife, duly executed and delivered the mortgage in contro-

358

OCTOBER TERM, 1863.
Statement of Facts.

versy, to secure the payment of that debt. The title to the
mortgaged estate was in the wife, and was so described iii the
mortgage. In the following October the wife died, leaving a
will, which was duly admitted to probate in March, 1872, and
6f which the following is a copy:
"I, Mary Beers, wife- of Cyrenius Beers, of Chicago, of lawful
age and sound mind, in view of the uncertainty of human life,
do make, publish and declare this my last will and testament.
"First. I order all of my debts to be paid, inciuding the expenses of my funeral and last illness.
,"1Second, I give and bequeath to my husband, Cyrenius Beers,
all the estate, both real, personal, and mixed, of which I die
seized or possessed, to be held by him in trust for the following
uses, purposes, and trusts, and none other, that is to say, to receive the rents, income, and profits thpreof during hi life, with
the remainder to my children, Mary C. Foster, wife of Orrington
C, Foster, Rissa J. Beers, and Charles G. Beers share and share
alike to them, their heirs and assigns forever.
"1But provided, That said Cyrenius Beers may encumber the
same by way of mortgage or trust deed or otherwise, and renew
the same for the purpose of raising money to pay off any and all
encumbrances now on said property, and which trust -deed *or
mortgage so made shall be as valid as though he held an absolute
estate in said property.
"1But provided further, That the said Cyrenius Beers may, in
his discretion, during his life, sell and dispose of any or all of
the real estate of4which I may die seized or possessed, as though
he held an absolute estate in the same, and out of the proceeds
pay any of the encumbrances upon any of the property of which
I may die seized and possessed, and the remainder over and above
what may be required to pay the indebtedness upon said property, the same being now encumbered, to reinvest in such way
as he may see proper, and from time to time to sell and reinvest,
such reinvestment to continue to be held in trust, the same as
the estate of which I may die possessed; that is to say, the said
Cyrenius Beers only to have the use during his life of said estate,
With the right of sale and to encumber and reinvest, the remainder after his death to go to .my children and their heirs
forever.

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. 359
Statement of Facts.
"Third. I hereby appoint said Cyrenius Beers executor of this
my last will and testament, hereby waiving from him all bail and
security, as I -have a rigjht to do under the statute in such cases
made and provided, as such executor.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal this
fourteenth day of September, in the year of. our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine.
"MARY BEnns. [SEAL.]
"The above instrument, consisting of three pages, was, at the
date thereof, declared to us by Mary Beers, the testator therein
mentioned, to be her last will and testament, and she at the
same time acknowledged to us, and each of us, that she had
signed and sealed the same, and we thereupon, at her- request,
and in her presence, and in the presence of each other, signed
our names thereto as attesting witnesses.
"SAUEL BEERs,
[SEAL.]
"GEORGE T. BEERS,
[SEAL.]
" Witnesses."

Cyrenius Beers, the husband, accepted the trust, and duly
qualified as executor and administered upon the estate, and
was discharged on the 20th September, 1877.
When the debt secured by the mortgage matured on the
24th February, 1874, it was not paid; but instead thereof
Beers on that day entered into a written agreement with. the
company, in which, after reciting the execution of the bond,
and that it was wholly unpaid, and the execution and delivery
of the mortgage "by the said Cyrenius Beers and Mary his
wife," "to secure tle payment thereof," it was agreed as
follows:
"Now, this memorandum witnesseth that the said The Connecticut Mutual Life Insuiance Company, in consideration of the
covenants and agreements on the part of the said Cyrenius Beers
hereinafter contained, the prompt and faithful performance
whereof is a condition precedent hereto, and time being the
essence of this contract, doth hereby extend and postpone the
time of payment of said principal sum of twenty thousand
($20,000) dollars in the condition of said bond mentioned until

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
the twenty-fourth day of February, which will be in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine, interest
to be paid thereon at and after the rate of nine per centum per
annum, half yearly, in the same manner and at the place or
places in the condition of said bond mentioned.
"And the said Cyrenius Beers, in consideration of such extension of the time of payment of said principal sum, doth
hereby convenant, promise, and agree to and with the said The
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, its successors
and assigns, that he will well and truly pay the said The
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, its successors
and assigns; said principal sum of twenty thousand ($20,000)
dollars, on the twenty-fourth day of February which will be in
the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and seventynine, at t6e place in the condition of said bond mentioned, and
also interest thereon at the rate of nine per centum per annum
half yearly, to wit, on the twenty-fourth day of each of the
months of August and February, which will be in each and every
year during such extended time of payment, according to the
tenor and effect of the .ten (10) coupons or due-bills signed by
said. Cyrenius Beers, bearing even date and given herewith ; it
being expressly understood and agreed by and between the
parties hereto that in the event of a failure to pay either or any
of said coupons at maturity then, at the election of said The
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, its successors or
assigns, the whole of" said principal sum of twenty thousand
($20,000) dollars in the condition of said bond mentioned shall
thereupon at once become due and payable, and may be collected
without notice, together with all arrearages of interest thereon,
in the-same manner as if said extension had never been granted.
"It is further expressly understood by and between the parties
heret&that nothing herein contained shall operate to discharge
or release the said Cyrenius Beers, his heirs, executors, or administrators, from their liabilities upon said bond, but it is expressly
understood that this instrument is to be taken. as.collateral and
additional security for the payment of said bond.
. A"It is aso expressly understood and agreed 1y and between
the parties hfereto that iii'-he event of a failure on the part of
the said Czyrehius -Beers, -his heirs, legal representatives, and
assigns, to fulfil, keep, and promptly perform, as well in spirit

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. 361
Argument for Appellants.
as in letter, the covenants in the said mortgage contained, given
by said Cyrenius Beers to said company, then, at the' election of
said The Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, its successors or assigns, the whole of said principal sum in the condition of said bond mentioned shall thereupon at once become due
and payable, and may be collected without notice, together with
all accrued interest thereon at said 'rate of nine per centum per
annum, anything hereinbefore contained to the contrary notwithstanding."
Cyrenius Beers died intestate in February, 1878, leaving the
mortgage debt still due and unpaid.
The appellants and Charles G. Beers, one of the defendants
in the original suit, were his heirs. They were also the children
and devisees of the said Mary Beers. Charles G. conveyed his
interest in the property to the appellants before the date of the
cross-bill.
The extension of the mortgage debt in 1874 was made without the knowledge or consent of the appellants or of the said
Charles G. Beers. The contention of the appellees was that
under the circumstances it operated as a discharge of the mortgage lien.
The court below decreed the foreclosure of the mortgage and
sale of the mortgaged estate. From this decree the defendants
below appealed.
.M". John S. ffiller for the appellants. - I. Mary Beer-occupied the position of surety. The'appellants, as her privies in
estate, are entitled to every defence which could have availed
to her. Bank of Albion v. Burns, 46 N. Y. 170.; Smith v.
Townsend, 25 N. Y. 479; Gahn v. Niemeewczz, 11 Wend. 312;
S. C. 3 Paige, 614; Johns v. -Reardon,11 Md. 465; Purvis v.
CarstaTp an, 73 N. C. 575; Aguilar v. Aguilar, 5 M[add. 414;
Stanford, &e., Banking Co. v. Ball, 4 De G., F. & J. 310;
Earl v. Countess of lTuntingdon, 2 Bro. P. 0., case 1. IL By
the extension of the time of payment, the mortgaged estate
was released. Bank of Albion v. Burms, 46 N. Y. 170;' Smith
v. Townsend 25 N. Y. 479. II. The will devised a life estate
to Cyrenins, and remainder to the children. Doe v. Coneidine,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
6 Wall. 458; -Doe v. A3fartin, 4 Term R. 39; Zambert v.
Thwaites, 2 Law Rep. Eq. Cas. 151-5; .lfinors v. Battion,1
E. L. R. App. Cas. 428. The extension was not authorized by
the power in the will. Ward v. Bank of XYy., 7 T. B. Mon.
93; &itzinger v. TFeaver, 1 Rawle, 375; Horwitz v. YXor'ris,
49 Penn. St. g3; S7/fer v. Beates, 9 S. & iR. 166; lZetzel v.
Barbr, 69 N. Y. 1. In making the extension, Beers acted
solely in his own interest, and not as donee of the power. Sir
Edward Clere'8 Case, 6 Coke R. 17 -B.; Andrews v. Emmott, 2
Bro. 0. 0. 597; Cox v. Chamberlain,4 Yes. 631; VYunnock v.
Hforton, 7 Yes. 391; 1 Sug. Pow. *367, *412; .Denn v. Roake,
2 Bing. 497; S. C. 5 B. & C. 120; S. C'. 1 Dow & 01. 437;
Blagge v. Xiles, 1 Story R. 426; Jones v. Wood, 16 Penn. St.
25; Bell v. Twilight, 22 N. HI. 500; 2 Story Eq. Jur., ยง 1062 a;
Coffng v. Taylor, 16 Ill. 457; Pease v. Pilot Knob I'on Co.,
49 Mo. 124; 2Y ry v. .Aichael, 18 Md. 227; .3faryland X-t.
Ben't Society v. Cl&ndnen, 44 Md. 429; Funk v. _gglston, 92
Ill. 515; Towles v. Fisher, 7 N. 0. 437; Blake v. Hawkins,
98 U. S. 315. The power to sell was a naked power not
coupled with a trust. Lewis on Trusts, 22,6th London Ed. 19;
3 lRedf. on Wills, 469; Hill on Trustees, 67; 2 Sugden on Powers, 159; -Eldridgev. Heard, 106 Mass. 579.
..Mr. Edward S. Isham, for the appellee.
MR. JunSTIC M]ATrT ws delivered the opinion of the court.
After reviewing the principal facts, he said:
This extension of the time of payment of the mortgage debt
was made without any consent thereto on the part of the
appellants.
It is claimed on their behalf that, as owners of the estate
mortgaged by the testatrix to secure the debt of her husband,
they are in a position of sureties, and that the extension of
time for the payment of the debt, without authority from them,
is, in equity, a discharge of the lien of the mortgage.
The appellee insists, in reply to this claim, that the agreement by which further time was given for the payment of the
-debt, during which the mortgage was continued in force, was

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MJT. LIFE INS. CO. 363
Opinion of the Court.

authorized by the will. of Mary Beers and binds her devisees.
Whether this be so is the precise question we are required to
decide.
We are reminded, at the outset of the argument, by the
counsel for the appellants, that being sureties, they are favorites
of the law; that their contract is strictissmijuris; and that
nothing is to be taken against them by intendment or construction. It is quite true that "the extent of the liability to
be incurred must be expreskA by the surety, or necessarily
comprised in the terms used in the obligation or contract;"
that is, "the obligation is not to be extended to any other subject, to any other person,. or to any other period of time than
is expressed or necessarily included in it." "In this sense only,"
continued Mr. Burge, Law of Suretyship, 1st Am. Ed., p. 40,
"must be understood the expression that the contract of the
surety is to be construed strictly. It is subject to the same
rules of construction and interpretation as every other contract." Besides, the rule of construction applies only to the
contract itself, and not to matters collateral and incidental, or
which arise in execution of it, which are to be governed by the
same rules that apply in like circumstances, whatever the relation of the parties. So that the fact that the appellants occupy
the relation of sureties cannot control the determination of the
question whether the agreement extending the time of payment of the mortgage debt, and the continuance of the mortgage as an encumbrance upon the estate, was a valid execution
of the powers conferred by the will of the testatrix. That
question must be answered according to its own rules.
It is further said, however, -on the part of the appellants,
that the agreement of February 24th, 1874, cannot be sustained
in support of a continuation of the mortgage lien, as an execution of the powers conferred by the will of Mary Beers, because it does not appear that it was so intended by Cyrenins
Beers, the donee of those powers. It is argued that the agreement of extension makes no reference either to the power or to
the property of the testatrix, which is.the subject of the power;
that every provision contained in it cain have its full operation
and effect; that is, all that it professes to do or provide for can

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

be done, according to its full tenor, without referring the act
to the power, and by referring it solely to the individual
interest of Cyrenius Beers, as the debtor of the appellee.
This, however, on an examination of its terms, will appear
to be an erroneous view of the true meaning and legal effect of
the agreement of extension., It recites the indebtedness of
Cyrenius Beers to the appellee, as then due and unpaid; that
he had applied to them to extend the time for the payment of
the principal sum; that Cyrenis Beers and Mary, his wife,
had executed and delivered their deed of mortgage to secure
the payment thereof ; it is thereupon witnessed that The Connecticut Mutual Life Isurance Company doth thereby extend
and postpone the time of payment of the principal sum until
February 24th, 1879, interest to be paid thereon at the rate of
nine per centum per annum;, and in consideration thereof
Cyrenius Beers agrees to pay the principal sum on the day
named therefor, and the interest thereon as stipulated, it being
understood that on failure to pay any instalment'of interest the
whole of the principal sum shall thereupon become due, and
may be collected without notice, together with all arrearages
of interest. It is also understood and agreed between the
parties, that nothing in the agreement shall operate to discharge or release Cyrenius Beers from his liability upon the
bond originally given for the payment of the debt, "1but it is
expressly understood that this instrument is to be taken as
collateral and additional security for the payment of said
bond." It is 'also expressly understood and agreed between
the parties that in the event of failure on the part of Cyrenius
Beers, "to fulfil, keep,_ and promptly perform, as well in spirit
as in letter, the covenants in said mortgage contained, given by
said Cyrenius Beers to said company, then, at the election of
the said company, the whole of said principal sum in the condition of said bond mentioned shall thereupon at once become
due and payable, and may be collected without notice, together
with all accrued interest thereon at said rate of nine per
centum per annum, anything hereinbefore contained to the
contrary notwithstanding."
Taking the instrument in all its parts and looking at its en-

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MIUT. LIFE IN\S. CO.365
Opinion of the Court.
tire scope and purpose, it must be admitted that, notwithstanding its omission of any direct and express stipulation of that
character, its meaning and legal effect are to continue in force,
so far as the parties to it had lawful authority to do so, the
covenants and lien of the mortgage as security for the payment
of the original debt, with the interest reserved at the increased
rate until the expiration of the extended time of payment.
This effect was undoubtedly intended by the parties, and this
intention could not take effect except by virtue of the powers
contained in the will of Mary Beers. Cyrenius Beers, as debtor,
had no power to continue the mortgage in force, nor as tenant
for life to renew it as a mortgage in fee. This is a demonstration, therefore, that the instrument must be treated as an execution of those powers, because, if it cannot otherwise operate
according to the intention of the parties, it must be referred to
the power which alone can make it effectual in all its provisions.
I The rule applicable in such cases, it is claimed, is that deduced: as the doctrine of Sir Edward Clcre8 Case, 6 Rep. 17 b,
as stated by 1 Sugden on Powers, 417, 7th London Ed., that
"where the disposition, however general it may be, will be absolutely void if it do not enure as an execution of the power,
effect will be given to it by that construction." Mr. Chance,
however, says:
"There are, indeed, in the case dicta apparently to this effect,
that if the instrument refer not to the power and can.have some
effect by means of the interest of the party, though not all the
effect which the words seem to import, still the instrument shall
not operate as an execution of the power, the intention being
thus contravened. It appears quite clear, however, at this day,
and a reference to the authorities will, it is apprehended, show
that it has been considered clear for nearly two centuries, that the'
rule is not thus confined ; indeed, it may well be asked why, admitting that the intention can be discovered to pass all, the intention should not prevail in the one case as well as in the other?
What rule of law or construction would be thereby violated ?"
2 Chance on Powers, 72, ยง 1597, London Ed. 1831.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

And Sir Edward Sugden said:
"And notwithstanding Sir Edward Clere's case, an intent, ap.
parent upon the face of the instrument, to dispose of all the estate,
would be deemed a sufficient reference to the power to make the
instrument operate as an execution of it, inasmuch as the words
of the instrument could not otherwise be satisfied." 2 Sugden
on Powers, 412, ch. VI. sec. VIII. 7th London E d.

In the present case, as we have seen, the legal effect and
meaning of the instrument cannot be satisfied without treating

it as an execution of the powers under the will, for Cyrenius
Beers, merely as debtor, as mortgagor, and as owner of the life
estate under the will of his wife, could not lawfully agree to
keep in force and renew a mortgage upon the estate of which
the appellants were devisees in remainder in fee.
The Supreme Court of Illinois in the case of Funrk v. .Eggeston., 92 Ill. 515, had the question under consideration, and in a
learned opinion, in which a large number of authorities, both
English and American, is reviewed, discarded even the modified
English rule of later date, and adopted that formulated by Mr.

Justice Story in Blagge v. _files, 1 Story, 426, as follows:
"The main point is to arrive at the intention and object of the
donee of the power in the instrument of execution, and that being
once ascertained, effect is given to it accordingly. If the donee
of the power intends to execute, and the mode be in other
respects unexceptionable, that intention, however manifested,
whether directly or indirectly, positively or by just implication,
will make the execution valid and operative. I agree that the
intention to execute the power must be apparent and clear, so
that the transaction is not fairly susceptible of any other interpretation. If it be doubtful, under all the circumstances, then
that doubt will prevent it from being deemed an execution of the
power. All the authorities agree that it is not necessary .that
the intention to execute the power should appear by express terms
or recitals in the instrument. It is sufficient that it should appear
by words, acts or deeds demonstrating the intention."

The rule as adopted by this court was tersely stated by Mr.

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT :MUT. LIFE INS. CO. 367
Opinion of the Court.
Justice Strong, in delivering its opinion in Blake v. .fawkimn,
98 U. S. 315-326, in this form:
"1If the will contains no expressed intent to exert the power,
yet, if it may reasonably be gathered from the gifts and directions made that their purpose and object were to execute it, the
will must be regarded as an execution. After all, an appointment under a power is an intent to appoint carried out, and if
made by will the intent and its execution are to be sought for
through the whole instrument."
In the case. of
it is said:

funson v. Berdan, 8 Stewart (N. J.), 376,

"It is sufficient if the act shows that the donee'had in view the
subject of the power."
AnZl in WTVdte v. Hicks, 33 N. Y.-383-392, Denio, Ch. I.,
said:
"This doctrine proceeds upon the argument that by doing a
thing which, independently of the power, would be nugatory,
she (the donee of the power) conclusively evinced her intention
to execute the power."
And in Sewall v. TFilmer, 132 Mass. 131-134-, the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in reference to a will made in
Maryland, which was the domicile of the testatrix, but the provisions of which related to both real and personal estate situated in Massachusetts, held it to be a valid execution of a power
contained in the will of her father, whose domicile was in that
State, although it would have been otherwise held in Maryland.
Gray, C. J., said:
"But in this commonwealth the decisions in England since our
Revolution, and before the St. of 7 Will. IV., and 1 Vict., cli..26,
ยง 27, have not been followed ; the court has leaned toward the
adoption of the rule enacted by that statute as to wills thereafter
made in England, namely, that a general - devise or bequest
should be construed to include any real or personal estate of which
the testator has a general power of appointment, unless a con-

,OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

trary intention should appear by his will ; and it has been adjudged that the mere facts that the will relied on as an execution of
the power does not refer to the power, nor designate the property
subject to it, and that the donee of the power has other property
of his own upon which his will may operate, are not conclusive
against the validity of the execution of the power; but that the
question is in every case a question of the intention of the donee
of the power, taking into consideration not only the terms of
his will, but the circumstances surrounding him at the time of
its execution, such as the source of the power, the terms of the
instrument creating it, and the extent of his present or past
interest in the property subject to it."
We cannot doubt that Cyrenius Beers, in the agTeement of
February 24th, 1874, intended to exert whatever power had
been conferred upon him by the will of his wife to continue in
force the mortgage to the appellee, as an encumbrance upon
her estate, for the reason that it is upon that supposition alone
that it can have its due legal effect, ut r'es magis valeat quaw
pereat; and by force of the rules which we have seen ought to
govern in such cases, we hold that, if the agreement, as made,
is within the scope of the power, it must be regarded as a valid
execution of it.
The question next to be considered, therefore, is, whether
Cyrenius Beers was empowered by the will of his wife to consent to an extension of the time of payment of the mortgage
debt, and a continuance thereby of the lien on the mortgaged
estate.
It is to be observed, in the first place, that he is made executor of the will, tenant for life for his own use of all the property
of the testatrix, and trustee of the legal title. Whether his
title as trustee is to be considered as a fee simple or for life, or
a chattel interest only, it is not necessary to decide. Its duration is to be measured by the nature of the purposes for which
it was created, and they include the power to mortgage, to sell,
and to reinvest in his own name as trustee. And it is not without significance, although of how much importance is not
material, that the remainder in fee limited to the children of
the testatrix, and which is described as a limitation of all the

WARNER v. CONNECTICUT MUT. LIFE INS. CO. 369
Opinion of the Court.

estate of which the testatrix should die seized or possessed, is
subsequently referred to as what shall remain after the death
of the tenant for life, and after the 'exercise by him of the
power of mortgaging or selling and reinvesting has been exercised for the purpose of paying the indebtedness upon the
property. It is further to be noticed that the powers to mortgage and to sell are authorized to be exercised by him for the
purpose specified, "as though he held an absolute estate in said
property." The specific power given is to "encumber the same
by way of mortgage or trust deed or otherwise, and renew the
same, for the purpose of raising money to pay off any and all
encumbrances now on said property," and the additional power
to "sell and dispose of any or all the real estate of which I
may die seized or possessed, as though he held an absolute
estate to the same, and out of the proceeds pay any of the encumbrances upon any of the property of which I may die seized
and possessed," and "the remainder over and above what may
be required to pay the indebtedness upon said property, the
same now being encumbered, to reinvest in such way as he
may see proper, and from time to time sell and reinvest, such
reinvestment to continue to be held in trust the same as the
estate of which I may die possessed."
It is too plain to admit of dispute that under these ample
powers Oyrenius Beers might have secured, by a new mortgage, a loan of the sum of money, at the stipulated rate of
interest, necessary to pay his indebtedness to the appellee, and
that he might, by a new 'loan from the appellee itself, secured
by a new mortgage, upon the same terms and for the same time
as granted by the agreement of extension, have raised the
money and discharged the mortgage now in suit. Such a
transaction would have been strictly within the letter of the
authority. And yet it would, in fact, have been nothing but
what was accomplished by the agreement of extension, namely,
a continuance of the old loan, secured by the old mortgage, for
a new term and at a higher rate of interest. The two transactions, though not the same in form, are so in substance, and a
substantial execution of the power is all that is required. In
the case of Bullock v. .Fladgate,1 Ves. & Beames, 41, where
VOL. cIX-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the power was to convert an estate into money and to purchase
other lands, which were the subject of the appointment, the
master of the rolls, Sir Win. Grant, no conversion having taken
place, but the original estate having been appointed, said:
"I apprehend that equity will uphold an appointment of the
estate itself as amounting substantially to the same thing; on
which principle it is that appointments deviating considerably
from the title of the powers under which they were made, have
frequently been supported."
The power to encumber the estate "by way of mortgage or
trust deed or otherwise, and renew the same," is broad enough
to include the renewal and extension of an existing encumbrance as well as the creation of a new one; and this is not
inconsistent with the declaration that it is to be "for the purpose of raising money to pay off any and all encumbrances
now on said property." The object clearly was to meet the
demand of the existing mortgagee for punctual payment of the
debt secured, and to prevent the possible sacrifice of a forced
sale to satisfy the demand, if not complied with; an object
which could as well be accomplished by extending the existing
mortgage as by substituting a new one in its place. The
power to renew a mortgage given for the purpose of raising
money to pay off an existing encumbrance is expressly given;
to renew an existing one, to avoid the necessity of creating a
new encumbrance, is, we think, reasonably and fairly to be
implied as equally within the intention of the testatrix, and
within the scope of the powers created by the will. The extension of a mortgage debt, and continuance of a mortgage lien,
is one mode of encumbering the Property, and may be a step,
and possibly, under some circumstances, a very important and
necessary one, in preparing for its payment and extinguishment. Indeed it might well be, as the transaction' shows the
parties to it so understood, that Cyrenius Beers, uniting in himself the various characters of principal debtor and joint mortgagor, and of executor of his wife's will, tenant for life of the
estate devised, and trustee with the ample powers conferred
upon him of dealing with the encumbrance, was, in reality,

FLASH v. CONN.
Statement of Facts.

constituted by the testatrix as the representative of all the
interests created by the will, fully authorized, as if he were
absolute owner of the estate, even as she could hax-e done in
her lifetime, to consent to the extension of the time of payment of the mortgage debt without prejudice to the mortgage
security.
There is no error in the record, and
The decee of the circuit ourt i8 afirmed.

FLASH and Others v. CONN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIMOUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued November 13th, 1883.-Decided November 20th, 1883.

Conflict of Law-Contrat-Corporation.
1. The liability created by a provision in a general act of the State bf New
York for the formation of corporations, that all the stockholders of every
company incorporated under it shall be severally individually liable to
creditors of the company until the whole amount of the capital stock shall
be paid in and certified, is in contract, and not a penalty; and can be
enforced by an action sounding in contract against a stockholder found in
another State.
2. The courts of New York having held that a liability of a stockholder to creditors arising under one of its general statutes for forming corporations
was in contract, when the attempt was made to enforce it in New York,
this court follows that interpretation in a suit to enforce such a liability
in another State.
3. The liability of a stockholder to a creditor under the 10th section of the
general act of the State of New York for forming corporations for
manufacturing purposes is a liability in contract, which may be enforced by an action at law. It is not necessary to resort to equity.

The plaintiffs in error, who were the plaintiffs below, brought
this suit in the Circuit Court of Escambia County, in the State
of Florida, on January 27th, 1876. It was afterwards, on the
petition of defendant, removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Florida.
The declaration alleged that the defendant, on or before

