CHEROKEE COUNTY COM]ISSIONERS v. WILSON. 621
Opinion of the Court.

COUNTY COM

SSIO!fERS OF THEE COUNTY OF
CHEROKEE v. WILSON.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UN-ITED STATES FOR TE
DISTRICT OF ]KANSAS.
Submitted December 5th, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.
Affpeal-a8as-.andamus-.irnicipa Cofporations-ltatutes.
A recovered judgment June 11th, 1881, against a township in Cherokee County,
Kansas, on bonds issued in payment of a subscription by the township
to stock in a railway company. The township had no trustee then -or
since. An alternative writ of mandamus having been sued out to compel
the board of county commissioners for the county to levy a tax sufficient
to pay the judgment, and to compel the county clerk to extend the tax
when levied, and to compel the county treasurer to colleet it when extended,

and to pay it to A when collected, judgment was entered for a peremptory
writ in accordance therewith. On appeal by the couity commissioners,
Held :
1. That by the statutes of Kansas which were in force at that time, it was made
the duty of the board of county commissioners of Cherokee county in consequence of the vacancy in the office of trustee of the township, to levy
a tax sufficient to pay the judgment recovered by A.
2. That the alternative writ of mandamus was not issued prematurely.
3. That the clerk and treasurer having taken no appeal, the writ of error
brought up for review only the objections of the board of comm&sioners.

.&r. Mallaee Prattand 3J1r. CarlesTF Blairs for plaintiff in
error.

.r.

Janes . Botford, -31r. Ifarcus T. 0. Willia

and 'X.

Jo8eph.8 ippen for defendant in error..
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 11th of June, 1881, William C. Wilson, the defendant in error, recovered a judgment in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, against the township
of Salamanca, Cherokee county, for $48,920.31. At that time
the office of trustee of the township was vacant, and it has not
been filled since. On the 24th of July, 1882, Wilson sued out
of-the same court an alternative writ of mandamus, returnable
on the 9th of October, 1882, requiring the board of county
commissioners of the county "to forthwith levy upon the tax-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

able property

.

in saidtownship

. . . a tax suffi-

. . and
cient in amount for the paymeni of the judgment
clerk
of said
to
the
county
cause the same to be certified
county;" and requiring the clerk of the county '"to extend
said tax forthwith on the tax books of said county and deliver
the same with said tax so levied and extended thereon to the
county treasurer of said county," and the county treasurer
forthwith, after the tax books shall have been delivered to him
by the clerk, "to proceed to collect said taxes and pay the
same, when so collected, to said William C. Wilson in payment
of said judgment, interest, and costs," or show cause why they
had not so done. This writ was served on the individual members of the board of coulhty commissioners, and on the clerk
and treasurer of the county, on the 26th of July. On the 27th
of November, 1882, the respondents filed a motion to quash
the writ, and on this motion raised two questions, to wit:
1. Whether the writ was not sued out prematurely; and,
2. Whether, under the statutes of Kansas, the county. commissioners could legally do that which the writ sought to
coerce them into doing.
Before this motion was disposed of the individual members
of the board of county commissioners filed an answer, and
after the testimony was closed, Wilson moved for a peremptory
writ. Upon the hearing of this motion and the motion to
quash, the judges holding the court were divided in opinion on
the following questions.
Ist. Whether said motions respectively should be sustained
or overruled.
2d. Whether it is the legal duty of the board of county.
commissioners of Cherokee, under the statutes. of the State of
Kansas, to levy the tax as commanded by the alternative writ
of mandamus herein, for the payment of the judgment of the
relator against Salamanca township; in said county, based upon
interest coupons detached from bonds issued by said township
to pay shares of capital stock in a railroad company, which
bonds were voted under the act of the General Assembly of
the *State of Kansas, entitled, "An Act to enable municipd1
townships to subscribe for stock in any railroad and to pro-

CHEROKEE COUNTY COMMISSIO-ERS -. WILSON. 623
Opinion of the Coult.

vide payment of the same," approved February 25t6, 1870, and
issued September 1st, 1872, under the act of said general assem-'
bly entitled "An Act to authorize counties, incorporated cities,
and municipal townships to issue bonds for the purpose of
building bridges, aiding in the. construction of railroads, waterpowers, or other works of internal improvement, 'nd providing
for the registiation of such bonds, and the repeal of all laws in
conflict therewith," approved March 2d, 1872.
The circuit judge was of opinion that the motion to quash
should be overruled, and that for the peremptory writ granted.
A judgment awarding the writ was thereupon eniered, and'the
questions as to which the difference of opinion arose were dply
certified. The case is now. here on a writ of eiror for an answer to these questions.
The act of February 25th, 1870, authorized the township to
subscribe to the capital stock of the Memphis, Carthage. and
Northwestern Railroad Company, and to issue bonds to pay
the subscription. That was settled by the judgment a-iust
the township on account of which the mandamus is asked.
Every township in Kansas is a body corporate and p9itic
(§1 [5965] Dassler's Comp. Laws, 977). The trustee is the
principal officer of the township; and his duty is, among other
things (§ 22 [5988] id. 980), to "superintend all the pecuniary
concerns of his township," and at the July session of the board
of county commissioners, annually, with the advice and consent
of the board, to levy a tax on the property of the citizens of
the- township, for township, road, and other purposes, and
report the same to the county clerk for entry on the tax roll,
"but, in a failure of such trustee and commissioners to concur,
then the board of county commissioners shall levy such township, road, and other taxes." The board of county commissioners are required by law to meet in regular session on the
first Monday in July of each year. § 13 [1397] Dassler's
Comp. Laws, 274. They must also meet on the first Monday
in August in each year to estinate and deternnin6 the amount
of money to be raised by tax for all county purposes, and all
other taxes which they shall be required by law to levy. § 83
[5886] Dassler's Comp. Laws, 956. The county clerk must

OCTOBER TERM3,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

make up the tax list immediately after the fist Monday in
August and deliver it to the treasurer for collection on or be
fore the first Monday in November. § 84, id.
Sec. 6 of the act of February 25th, 1870, under which the
bonds involved in this proceeding were issued, is as follows:
Src. 6. Whenever any bonds shall be issued in pursuance of
the foregoing provision, it shall be the duty of the board of county
commissioners annually to proceed to levy and collect a tax on all
the taxable property in such township sufficient to pay the interest
on such bonds as the same becomes due, and to create a sinking
fund sufficient to pay said bon ds at maturity ; and'such tax shall
be collected in cash or the ;oupons of such bonds which may be
due ; and such tax shall be collected as county and township taxes
are collected and paid cut by the treasurer on presentation of the
coupons or bonds, when due ; and the county clerk, treasurer, and
other officers who may be required to do any act under the forltgoing provisions, shall be entitled to the same fees as are allowed
by law for similar services, and liable to the same fines and penalties for non-compliance."
The act of March 2d, .L872, referred to in the second question
certified, was repealed, so tar as affects this case, by the act of
March 9th, 1874 (Session Laws of 1874, p. 41), §§ 7 and 13 of
which are as follows:
"SEq. 1. It shall be the duty of the proper officers of any
county, city or township, in which bonds have been heretofore
voted for any of the purposes mentioned in the act to which this
act is amendatory, annually, at the time when other taxes are
levied, to levy and cause to be collected a sufficient tax to pay the
interest on all such bonds as the same shall become due, and also
for the purpose of creating a sinking fund for the final redemption
of such bonds.
"SEc. 13. It will be the duty of the board of county commissioners of any, county in which railroad bonds shall be issued under
the provisions of this act, annually, at the time when other taxes
are levied, to levy and cause to be collected, as other taxers are
levied and collected, a sufficient tax to pay the interest on all
bonds issued for railroad purposes by such county, or any town-

CJEROKEE COUNTY COMIMISSIONERS v. WILSON. 625
Opinion of the Court.
ship therein, as the same falls due, and also for the purpose of
creating a sinking fund for the final redemption of such bonds."
These statutes were in force when the alternative writ of
mandamus was sued out in this case. The judgment against
the township was rendered on the 11th of June, 1881. It
therefore became the duty of the proper officers to levy the
tax at the time fixed by law for that purpose in the year 1881.
No such levy was made, and, consequently, all officers, whose
duty it was to make the levy w'ere in default when the alternative writ was sued out in 1882. It follows that the writ was
not prematurely issued if it was the duty of the board of county
commissioners to make the levy when there was no trustee of
the township. The fact that the board may not have had actual
notice of the rendition of the judgment until November, 1881,
does not affect their legal obligation to make the levy. It may
be accepted as an excuse for not performing that duty, but it does
not relieve them from the consequences of their legal default.
The township trustee is in law the principal officer of the
township. It is his duty to superintend all the pecuniary concerns of the township, and, with the advice and concurrence of
the board of county commissioners, to levy all taxes required
to meet the liabilities of the township not otherwise provided
for by law; but if he fails in this duty, the board must, as we
think, make the necessary levies for him. To that extent the
board is charged with the duty of caring for the interests of
the township. Such is the fair meaning of section 22 [5988].
Under that section the township trustee is required to attend
the meeting of the board in July of each year, and lay before
them his recommendations for taxes to be levied. As his levy
can only be made with the concurrence of the board, there
must necessarily be an inquiry by the board into the pecuniary
concerns of the, township, so as to determine whether what is
recommended by the trustee is enough or more than enough to
meet its liabilities for the current year. If the trustee has
omitted -a tax for any purpose, which the law'requires to be
levied, it is the clear duty of the board to make the levy themselves if the trustee will not. The trustee and the commisVOL. CIX--40

OCTOBER TERM. 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

sioners are made in law a tribunal to meet in JSuly in each year
to estimate and determine what taxes are required in the
township for the year. If both the trustee and the commissioners are present at the meeting, and agree as to what should
be done, the trustee reports the tax to the county clerk, but if
the trustee is not present, or being present does not agree with
the commissioners, the opinion of the commissioners prevails,
and they may proceed without him. This is the evident purpose of the provision that, "in failure of such trustee and commissioners to concur," the board shall make the levy. The
tax to pay the judgment in this case was one of the taxes to
be levied on the propertkr of the township to pay a township
debt. It is true that this section of the law was enacted in
substance years before the bonds involved in this suit wer(
issued, but unless it has been in some way superseded b
reason of the special acts connected with the particular oblig,
tion of these bonds, it governs this case. So far as we are advised, if the tribunal consisting of the trustee and county
commissioners is relieved from its general supervision of the
needs of the township in the way of taxation for these bonds,
it is only to put that duty on the board alone. If on the
'board, it was clearly their duty to levy the tax without the
trustee au the meeting in August, 1881, because the legal liabi ity of the township had then been judicially established. If,
however, it was a matter in respect to which the trustee should
act conjointly with them, both they and the trustee were in
default in July, 1881. In any view of the case, the obligation
to levy the tax had been imposed on the county commissioners
when the alternative writ was sued out, and they have shown
no good cause why the levy was not made.
The board of county comnmissioners have alone brought
this writ of error. So far as appears, the clerk and treasurer
are satisfied with what has been done in reference to them.
The board are in no condition to complain for the other officers, because, under the law, they must levy the tax before the
)thers can act, and, if the levy is made, the duties of the clerk
bud treasurer are purely ministerial. The whole proceeding
lepends on the duty of the board to levy the tax.

SALAMANCA TOWNSHIP v. WILSON.
Opinion of the Court.

We conclude, therefore, that the motion to quash should have
been overruled, and the motion for judgment sustained. The
ftcst question is answered accordingly. The second question is
answered in the affirmative.
As the judgment was in accordance with these answers, it is
Affirmed-

SATrAMAWAN
IN

ERROR

TO

TOWNSHIP v. W LSON{.

THE CIRCUIT coURT OF THE UNITED
THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.

STATES

FOR

Sabmitted December 5th, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.

.an=a-,unkzap2

orporaions,Offirs of-Offie, Besgnaton of-Seme
of Process-Stalutes of Kansas.

The removal of a treasurer of a township in the State of Kansas from the limits
of the township into the limits of an adjoining township, without resigning
his office, does not vacate the office so as to invalidate service of summons
upon him in his oficial capacity for the purpose of commencing an action

against the township.

-r. Wallace Pratt and frA. MVlzres WF Blair for plaintiff
in error.
.fT..Tamew S. Boa.ford, -Mr. Xarcus T. C. "Wlliamsand -.M.
.psep]
&S'e, for defendant in error.
MR.Cm F JusTICE WAuTE delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case the judges holding the circuit court have certified a difference of opinion between them upon the hearing of a
motion to set aside the service of summons on the plaintiff in
error, being the defendant below. The return of service is in
these words:
"Received the within writ September the 12th, 1882. I served
the within summons on said Township of Salamanca, Cherokee
county, State of Kansas, by delivering a true and certified copy
thereof to Joseph A. Jones, the last elected and qualified treasurer
of said Salamanca Township, in the county of Cherokee, State and
District of Kansas; and I made diligent search and inquiry for,

