LAMAR v. McoCAY.
Opinion of the Court.

LAMAR, Executor, v. McOAY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted October Slat, 1883.-Decided November 19th, 1863.

On the question of the fact as to whether the proceeds of certain cotton had
been recovered and received from the United States as part of the proceeds
of cotton recovered for in the court of claims, this court reversed the de-

cree of the circuit court.

The case was submitted on the briefs.
2r. Eldward 2. Divkeiso for the appellant:
...J - Z H~erbert, .Vr.ShSellalurger and 2fr. TfWilon, for

the appellee, and the Appellee for himself.
MR. JusTIoCE BL0ArCHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellee, who was the plaintiff below, seeks to recover
from the executor of Gazaway B. Lamar--a-sum of money, on
the allegation that the testator received that money from the
United States, as the proceeds of 136 bales of upland cotton,
which belonged to the assignor of the plaintiff. Lamar recoVered in the court of claims, on the 1st of June, 1873, a judgment against the United States for $579,343.51, as the proceeds
of 3,184 bales of upland cotton and 91 bales of Sea Island cotton, which Lamar owned in Savannah, Georgia, in December,
1864, at the time that city was captured by the military forces
of the United States, and all of-which bales werb captured by
said forces and shipped to the agent of the Treasury Department at New York, and there sold by him, and the proceeds
paid into the treasury of the United States. The amount of
the judgment was paid to Lamar in April, 18-74. This bill was
filed in August, 1-879, It alleges that the 136 bales Were shipped by the plaintiffs assignor to 0. A. L. Lamar, now deceased
(the son of G. B..Lamar), who received and held them as the
property of such assignor; that, after the death of C. A. L. Lamar, G. B. Lamar came into possession of the 136 bales, and
retained such possession as the agent and fiduciary of such as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

signor, that the suit in the court of claims was brought for the
recovery of the 136 bales, with other cotton; and that the
proceeds of the 136 bales were included in said judgment, and
were received by G. B. Lamar. The circuit court entered a
decree in favor of the plaintiff for the agreed amount of the
avails of the 136 bales, and the defendant has appealed to this
court.
On the questidn as to whether the 136 bales were embraced
in Lamar's recovery, the circuit court found that they were.
We are not able to concur in this conclusion. The question is
one altogether of fact. It has involved the examination of the
pleadngs and proofs a~d other proceedings in the suit in the
court of claims, besides a consideration of the effect of the
provisions in the will of G. B. Lanar, and of an advertisement
he published, and of entries he made in his books, in regard to
the 13,6 bales, after he had received the amount of the judgment.
It vould not conduce to any good end to review the propositions discussed by the respective counsel, consisting largely of
arithmetical calculations, iv elucidation of their respective contentions. It must suice to say that the record and proceedings of the court of claims do not show that the 136 bales
were embraced in. the final petition of G. B. Lamar in that
court, or in the 3,275 bales for which judgment was awarded.
There is not in the proofs before the court of claims any testimony in regard to the '136 bales. It mn y very well b6 that
they passed into the possession of G. B. Lamar, and were
.seized-and sent to New York and sold, and that their proceeds
are now-in the treasury, But, the evidence before the court
of clWin. was entirely sufficient to show that G. B. Lamar was
entitled to reover the proeeeds of, the 3,275 bales for which he
did. -recvyf 'without including the 136. Every bale of the
$,275 is traced, in that evideice, into the hands of C. B. Lamar,
and identified- as cotton he had pdrchased and paid for, as a
buyer of it.- The 136 bales were no part of it.
The will was madein September, 1872, nearly eight months
.before tho final ypetition was filed in the court of claims.
That petitio'i-onntted to mention the 136 bales, they having
been specially mentioned in the -amended petition filed April

LAMAR v'. McCAY.
Opinion of the Court.

16th, 1872, which was the petition pending when the will was
made. The final petition states that it is filed "in lieu of and
as a substitute for all other petitions and amendments thereto
heretofore filed in this cause."
The 136 bales, with other cotton, having been taken from the
possession of G. B. Lamar and sold, he made, as he states in
claims upon the government of the United States for
his will, "1
payment for such cotton," which claims, the*will says, " are
now before the court of claims, and also before the committee
on claims of the Congress of the United States." The will
directs his executors to press the claims, and gives a list of the
cotton, and specifies among it the 136 bales, "belonging to a
gentleman in Richmond, Virginia," and as being cotton on
which C. A. L. Lamar made advances. G. B. Lamar did, in
his amended petition filed in the court of claims, April 16th,
1872, make a specific claim for the proceeds of that cotton.
But he dropped that claim in his final petition, and had no
recovery for it. He did not receive his money till more than
ten months after he obtained judgment, The impression was
on his mind that he had recovered for the 136 bales, and, under
that erroneous belief, he advertised in a newspaper in Richmond for the rightful owner of the cotton to come forward and
prove his ownership, and pay advances and expenses of collection, and receive the balance due. The advertisement stated
that cotton was placed in the possession of C.A. L. Lamar, and
stored in Lamar's warehouse; that advances were made on it,
and there were charges for storage, compressing, and cartage;
that the cotton was taken by the United States; and that he
had received payment for it from the treasury. He also, in
April, 1874, made entries in his books stating that he had received so much money from the United States for the 136 bales,
"of which the owner is unknown and is advertised for in Richmond, Virginia."
The evidence derived from the advertisement and the entries
in the books is of no force except to show Mr. Lamar's own
belief at the time, and cannot avail to control the internal evidence afforded by the record from the court of claims, that
the 136 bales were not indluded in the recovery in that court.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

This conclusion makes it unnecessary to consider any of the
other questions raised.
The decree of te circuit court ia revereed and the case i8 renanded to tlt

cowrt, with direction to diemA,8

the bill of

complaint.

ARNSON and Another v. IffURPT, Collector.
nT mRmOR ToTE
RcuT Co=R OF THE umITED STATES. oR
SODTHERN.DISTRICT OF wEWYORK.
Argued October 15th, 1883.-Decided November 19th, 1883.

CoUedor-utom DuNe8-Lzmitatn.-SIatue8.
1. The common-law right of action against a collector to recover back duties
illegally collected is taken away by statute, and a remedy given based on
statutory liability, which is exclusive.
2. The time fixed by statute for commencing this action is within ninety days
after the adverse decision of the secretary of the treasury on appeal,
but if the secretary fail to render a decision within ninety days, the. importer has the option either to begin suit, treating the delay as a denial,
or to await the decision, and sue within ninety days thereafter.
3.The limitation laws of the State in which the suit is brought do not fur.
nish the rule for determining whether the action is brought in time.

The facts appear in the opinion of the court.
-r. Iews andem for the plaintiff in error.
-Y. Solicitor-GezeraZfor the defendant.
usTEc
ATrHEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This action was brought :May 8th, 1819, by.the plaintiffs in
error in the Supreme Court of New York, to recover money
alleged to have been illegally exacted by the collector for customs duties, and was removed by the defendant by writ of
M&

certiorarito the Circuit Court of the United States for that district.
On the trial it appeared that the several amounmts alleged to
'have been illegally exacted were paid under protest, duly mnade,
on various dates from April 26th, 1871, to November 29th,

