MONONGAHELA NAT. BANK v. JACOBUS.

275

Opinion of the Court.

MONONGAIHELA

NATIONAL BANK v. JACOBUS.

IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Submitted October 26th, 1883.-Decided October 19th, 1883.

Executor and Administrato,-- Statutes- Witness.

A creditor of A obtained judgment against him. He levied on capital stock in
a corporation claimed by B under an assignment from A, and in the original suit summoned B as garnishee of A to answer. Pending these
proceedings A died, and his administrator was substituted as defendant. B
and the administrator were offered as witnesses on B's behalf in regard to
the transactions at the time of the assignment: Held, That each was a
competent witness on his own motion, notwithstanding the proviso in ยง 858
Rev.Stat., "That in actions by or against executors, administrators, or
guardians in which judgment may be rendered for or against them,
neither party shall be allowed to testify against the other as to any transaction with or statement by the testator, intestate, or ward unless called to
testify thereto by the opposite party or required to testify thereto by the
court."

Proceedings subsequent to judgment against a person as
garnishee, who claimed title to property taken on execution as
the defendant's property. The facts are stated in the opinion
of the court.
X1i. D. T.

T

aton for the plaintiffs.

.r. Thoma8 C. lazear and -Yr. J. TT DouglW for the
defendant.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error having recovered a judgment for
$9,056.12 against Alfred Patterson, in the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the Western District of Pennsylvania, caused
an execution attachment to be issued against the Fayette
County Railroad Company and Samuel H. Jacobus, the defendant in error, attaching, as the property of Patterson, certain shares of the capital stock of that company, which stood
in the name of Jacobus. The attachment was duly served
upon Patterson, Jacobus, and the railroad company. The controllinz issue in the case is whether the stock was the property
MR. JUS

E

T.

n

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

of Alfred Patterson, and liable to be attached in satisfaction of
the judgment against him. Jacobus claims that the stock became his property in virtue of an unrecorded assignment and
transfer, for a valuable consideration, by Alfred Patterson prior
to the rendition of that judgment; consequently, that it is not
liable to the bank's attachment.
In the progress of the litigation Patterson died, and his administrator was substituted of record as party defendant.
The contention on the part of the bank is that the assignment Was by an insolvent debtor in trust for certain preferred
creditors, and that it must have been recorded in order to protect the stock from the attachment of judgment creditors; that
of Jacobus is, that the assignment was made in consideration
of his assumption of certain liabilities of the debtor, and without any intent upon the part of either himself or Patterson -to
hinder, delay, or defraud the creditors of the latter.
At the trial, Jacobus, a witness in his own behalf, was allowed,
over the objections of plaintiff, to testify as to what took place
between him and Patterson at the time the stock in question
was assigned by the latter to the former. The administrator
was also permitted, oVer the objection of the plaintiff, to prove
-he being present on the occasion of the assignment-that the
assumption by Jacobus of certain debts of Patterson's was in
consideration, and on the faith, of the transfer of this stock.
This testimony bore directly upon the controlling issue in the
case between the bank and Jacobus.
Whether Jacobus and the administrator of Patterson were
competent witnesses depends upon the construction of section
858 of the Revised Statutes, which provides that
"In the courts of the United States no witness shall -be excluded in any action on account of color, or in any civil action
because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried : Provided,
That in actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them,
neither party shall be allowed to testify against the other as to
any transaction with or statement by the testator, intestate, or
ward, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party or
required to testify thereto by the -court,"

MONONGAHELA NAT. BANK v. JACOBUS.

277

Opinion of the Court.
In Potter v. .2ationalBank, 102 U. S. 163, we held that in
actions in which judgment may be rendered for or against an
executor, dministrator, or guardian, it is no objection to the
competency of the witness that he is interested in the issue to
be tried; because, in such cases, the statute excluded only
parties to the record, that is, those who, according to the established rules of pleading and evidence, are parties t6 the issue.
It is now argued by plaintiff in error that Jacobus, as well as
the administrator of Alfred Patterson, are parties to the record,
and, unless called by the court or the opposite party, are
incompetent to testify as to any transactions or statements by
the intestate.
We are of opinion that they were each competent as a
witness on the issue between the bank and Jacobus, as to
whether these shares of stock were the property of the latter,
and subject to the former's attachment. The liability of Alfred
Patterson to the bank had become fixed by the judgment
against him for the debt. There can be no judgment against
his estate in this action, by which the amount of the bank's
claim can be increased, or whereby Patterson's estate can be
released from liability in whole or in part. The real issue was
between the bank and Jacobus, and, consequently, the case is
within the first clause of section 858, which provides that "1No
witness shall be excluded . . . in 'any civil action because
he is a party to or interested in the issue tried." Within the
meaning and object of the proviso, this is not an action by or
against an administrator, on which judgment may be rendered
for or against him.,
We are of opinion that there was no error in admitting
Jacobus or the administrator of Patterson to testify on their
own motion.
In reference to the meris of the case, we do not perceivc
that any error was committed by the circuit court. The jury
were properly instructed as to the law of the case.

The judgment is-affirmed.

