OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

LOUISVILLE
IN

& NASHVILLE RAILROAD COM3AN-Y v. PALMES, Collector.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF FLORIDA.

Argued November 8th and 9th; 1883.-Decided November 19th, 1883.

Construction of Statutes--Constitutional Law--'orida--Franlhies-Immunities-PubliaImprovements-State Courts-Railroads-Taxation.
The legislature of Florida, acting under the Constitution of the State, passed
an improvement act, exempting from taxation the capital stock of railroad
companies accepting its provisions. The Alabama and Florida Railroad
Company was organized, and constructed a railroad within the State limits,
and became entitled to enjoy the exemption. In 1868 the State of Florida
adopted a Constitution which provided for a uniform and equal rate of
taxation, and that the property of corporations theretofore or thereafter to
be incorporated should be subject to taxation. The road and property,
rights, privileges, and franchises of the A. & F. Co. being sold under decree of foreclosure, became by mesne conveyances vested in the Pensacola
and Louisville Railroad Co. In 1872 the legislature enacted that the P. &
L. Co., as assignees of the A. & F. Co., should be exempted from taxation
during the remainder of the period for which the A. & F. Co. would have
been exempted. In 1877 the title of the P. & L. Co. to its road and other
prope ty, and its franchises, rights, privileges, easements, and immunities
were conveyed to the Pensacola Railroad Company, and the legislature
authorized the P. R. Co. to acquire and enjoy them. The P. & L. Co.
possessed, among other things, the power to lease to a railroad company
out of the State. It was claimed that this right passed to the P. R. Co.,
and the latter leased its railroad and property, rights, privileges, easements
and immunities to the plaintiff in error. .feZd,
1 That the right of exemption from taxation did not pass from the A. & F.
Co. to the P. & L. Co. by the sale under the mortgage.
e. That the language of the act of 1877 was broad enough to create that right
anew, if the legislative grant was valid; but that
3. The legislature of Florida, after the adoption of the Constitution of 1868,
could not make an original grant to a railroad, exempting its railroad
property from taxation.
4. That any right of this kind that could have been created by the act of
1877,-was personal, and not assignable.
5. That a demurrer to the bill does not admit the contrary of these facts
in law which appear upon the face of the bill, and of which the court
must take judicial notice.
6. That the federal question before the court is, whether the State court gave
effect to a State law which impairs the obligation of a contract; in deciding which, and in determining whether there was a contract, the

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. PALMIES. 245
Statement of Facts.
court is not necessarily governed by previous decisions of State courts,
except where they have been so firmly established as to constitute a rule
of property.

This was a writ of error bringing into review a decree of the
Supreme Court of Florida, dismissing a bill in equity filed by
the plaintiff in error, which sought to enjoin the defendant, a
collector of revenue under the laws'of Florida for the county
of Escambia, from collecting, by a sale of property levied on
for that purpose, certain taxes claimed by him to be due from
the complainant.
. The ground of jurisdiction is, as stated and shown in the
record, that in the cause wherein the decree complained of was
rendered there was drawn in question the validity of a statute
of the State of Florida, to wit, "An Act entitled an act for the
assessment and collection of revenue," approved March 5th,
1881, wherein and whereby certain taxes for State and county
purposes were imposed upon 'the line of railroad extending
from the city of Pensacola, in the State of Florida, to the
northern boundary of the State of Florida, in the direction of
Montgomery, Alabama, of which railroad the plaintiff in error
is in possession and is owner; the validity of this statute being
questioned on the ground that it was repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, in that it impaired the obligation
of a contract, and the decision of the Supreme Court of Florida
being in favor of its validity.
The contract, the obligation of which it was alleged has
been thus impaired, and of which the plaintiff in error claims
the benefit, was asserted to arise as follows:
The generl assembly of the State of Florida passed an act,
which took effect January 6th, 1855, entitled "An Act to provide for and encourage a liberal system of internal improvements in this State," the preamble to which recites that:
"The Constitution of the State declares ' that a liberal system
of internal improvements, being essential to the development of
the resources of the country, shall be encouraged by the government of this State, and it shall be the duty of the general assembly, as soon as practicable, to ascertain by law proper objects of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

improvements in relation to roads, canals, and navigable streams,
and to provide for a suitable application of such funds as may be
appropriated for such improvements. '"
The act then proceeded to create an internal improvement fund
to aid in the construction of certain described railroads, and
other works of internal improvement, by means of corporations
organized or to be chartered for that purpose; and the 18th
section provided as follows:
"That the capital stock of any railroad company accepting the
provisions of this act shall be forever exempt from taxation, and
the roads, their fixtures and appurtenances, including workshops,
warehouses, vehicles, and property of every description needed
for the purpose of transportation of freight and passengers, or
for the repair and maintenance of the roads, shall be exempt
from taxation while the roads are under construction and for the
period of thirty-five years from their completion, and that all the
officers of the companies, and servants and persons in the actual
employment of the companies, be and are hereby exempt from
performing ordinary patrol or militia duty, working on public
roads, and serving as jurors."
By an act of the general assembly of Florida, approved
December 14th, 1855, it was enacted:
"That a line of railroad to be constructed from the city of
Pensacola, or any other point or points on the waters of Pensacola; Bay or the waters of St. Andrews Bay, to the north line of
the -State, J.eading in the direction of Montgomery, Alabama,
.shall be considered properimprovements to be aided from the
internal improvement fund in the manner provided for, or which
may hereifteil be provided for, in ' An Act to provide for and encoTurage a liberal system of internal improvements in the State,'
approved January 6th, 1855.".
The Alabama and Florida Railroad Comipany, by an act
approved January 8th, 1853, had been incorporated to build a
railroad faling within that description, to extend from some
point on the bay of Penscola to some point on" the boiinday
line between the States of Florida and Alabama, and to meet

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R.R. CO. v. PALMES. 247
Statement of Facts.

and connect with a railroad leading thence to the city of Montgomery. This company, it was alleged in the bill, built and
for a time operated the line of railroad contemplated by its
charter, and became entitled to the benefits and privileges of
the Internal Improvement Act of 1855, by accepting its provisions and complying with its conditions. Its line of railroad
was completed about January 1st, 1860.
By virtue of a decree of foreclosure and sale at the suit of
trustees of a first mortgage, to satisfy the bonds secured thereby,
the railroad of the Alabama and Florida Railroad Company,
and all the rights, privileges, and franchises of the said company, were sold and conveyed on August 7th, 1872, to one A. E.
Maxwell, his heirs and assigns, in trust, and by him were sold
and conveyed on December 10th, 1872, to the Pensacola and
Louisville Railroad Company, a corporation created by the
laws of Florida.
The original act incorporating the last-named company was
passed July 16th,.1868, but it appeared to have been reorganized
by an amendatory act which took effect February 4th, 1872, the
18th section of which was as follows:
"That the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, having
become the assignee of the Alabama and Florida Railroad of
Florida and the franchises of the said corporation, and being in
possession of and operating the said line of road, which corporation was exempt from taxation for a limited period, the said
Pensacola and Louisville Railroad company and its property,
now owned or hereafter to be acquired, shall also be exempt from
taxation during the remainder of said period."
On May 6th, 1878, in pursuance of a decree of the Circuit Court
of the State of Florida, sitting in Leon County, a sale and conveyance was made transferring the title of the Pensacola and
Louisville Railroad Company in and to its road and other
property, "together with all the franchises, rights, privileges,
easements, and immunities" of that company, to the Pensacola
Railroad Company. This company was a corporation of the
State of Florida, created by an act of the general assembly,
which took effect February 27th, 1877. The second section of
that act was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
"SEc. 2. Be itfurther enacted, That the said Pensacola Railroad Company be, and. it is hereby, authorized and enipowered
to acquire by purchase and assignment all the property, rights,
franchises, privileges, and immunities of the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, a corporation created by an act of the
general assembly of the State, approved July 16, A.D. 1868,
whether the same were acquired under the laws of the States of
Florida or Alabama or the laws of the United States, or as the
assignee or successor of the Alabama and Florida Railroad Company ; and upon completion of the said purchase and assignment,
the said Pensacola Railroad Company shall be deemed in law and
equity to be fully invested with and entitled to all the said property, rights, franchises, privileges, and immunities of said Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, as though the same were
originally granted to or acquired by the said Pensacola Railroad
Company."
By the 13th section of the act of 1872, amending the charter

of the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, it was provided that:
"It shall be lawful for said company to purchase, lease, acquire an interest in, to unite or consolidate with, lease or sell to
any ther railroad company in or out of the State, and to make
the same one company, with a consolidated stock and property
and with one board of directors," &c.
The right under this section to sell and transfer its property
and franchises to a corporation of another State, it was claimed,
passed from the Pensacola and Louisville lRailroad Company to
the Pensacola Railroad Company; and accordingly, on October

20th, 1880, the Pensacola Railroad Company conveyed to the
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Company, the plaintiff in
error, its railroad from its junction with the Mvobile and Montgomery Railway to its terminus in Pensacola Bay, its property,
real and personal, with certain exceptions, all its franchises,
except the franchise to be and exist as a corporation, rights,
privileges, easements, and immunities, by virtue of which conveyance the plaintiff in error claimed in the bill that it became

entitled to all the rights, property, privileges, franchises, and

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R.R. CO. v. PALMES. 249
Argument for Plaintiff in error.

immunities of the Alabama and Florida Railroad Company,
the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, and the Pensacola Railroad Company, under the various acts incorporating
these companies, and Acts amendatory to the same.
The plaintiff in error, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad
Company, was a corporation of Kentucky, and by an amendment
to its charter, which took effect March 6th, 1878, reciting that
its stockholders had become largely interested in the commerce
and railroad business between the States of Kentucky and
Tennessee and the southeast, and the several railroad connections in that part of t]he country, by an extension of its system,
was enabled "to operate, lease or purchase, upon such terms or
in such manner as they deem best, any railroad in any other
State or States deemed necessary for the protection of the interest of the stockholders."
2fr. JoAn-I. Cadwaladerfor the plaintiff in error.
I. All the facts necessary to obtain relief are admitted. II.
The State contracted with the Pensacola Railroad Company
that if it would buy the old road and carry on the business, it
should be exempt from taxation. The State is estopped from
denying the exemption. .umphrey v. Pegues, 16 Wall. 244-;
Railroad Companies v. Gaines, 97 U. S. 697,711-2; Railroad
Company v. County of Hamblen, 102 U. S. at 277. II. The
State is also estopped by the decision of its own court in the
case of Gonzales v. Sullivan, involving this right as between
the State and the plaintiffs privy in estate. Bigelow, Estoppel,
lxiii; 45, 94-5, 284; Cooley on Constitutional Limitations (5
ed.), 59-60; Freeman on Judgments, ยง 165; Taylor on
Evidence, ยง 1689. Blakemores Case, 2 Den. Cr. 0. 410; Smith
v. .Jernochen,7 How. 198; Preble v. Board of Supevisors,
8 Bissel, 358; Finney v. Boyd, 26 Wis. 366; State v. C. & -L.
Railroad Co., 13 S. Car. 290. Indeed, such an estoppel by
judgment may fairly be said to make part of the title to the
property concerned. Brooke's Abridgment, Estoppel, 15;
Adams v. Barnes, 17 Mass. 364; .Yelly v. Donlin, 70 Ill. 378;
State v. C. d& L. Railroad. Co., 13 S. Car. p. 313-4. IV. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff's position is like that of a purchaser of bonds relying on the decision of the Supreme Court of a State adjudicating the validity of the bonds. Ge pek v. Dubuque, 1
Wall. 175; -ouisiana v. Pilsbury, 105 U. S. at 295. V. The
constitutionality of the act of 1855 is not an open question
in this court. New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Jof eron
Bank v. Skelley, 1 Black, 436; Home for the Triendle88 v.
]Rouse, 8 Wall. at 438; Wilmington Railroad v. Reid, 13
Wall. 264; Railway Company v. W/dtton, 13 Wall. 269;
-Humphrey v. Pegues*16 Wall. at 249. That being so, the
Supreme Court of Florida has decided its meaning in accordance with the contention of the plaintiff. Gonzales v.
Sullivan, 16 Fla. 791; and that construction is binding
upon this court. Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20. VI.
The exemption in question was not attached to any particular corporation, but to the line of road. If this can be
maintained, it follows that the exemption goes with the property. -New Jersey v. Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164; Tennes8ee v.
Hicks, cited in State v. Whitworth, 8 Lea (Tenn.), 594; Chicago,
&c., Railroad Company v. Pfaender,23 Minn. 217; St. Paul,
&cf., Railroad Company v. Parcher,14 Minn. at 328; Vinona,
dc., Railroad Company v. County of Deuel, 7 Am. & Eng.
R. R. Cas. 348.
XA1. E. A. Perry for the defendant.
MP- JusTicE M-TrHEvs delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the foregoing language, he said:
The exemption from taxation, created by the 18th section of
the Internal Improvement Act of 1855, is, in every respect,
similar to that which was declared in XAlor'gan v. Louieiana,
93 U. S. 217, to be not assignable. No words of assignability
are used by the legislature of the State in the language creating
it, and, from its nature and context, it is to be inferred that the
exemption of the property of the company was intended to be
of the same character as that declared in reference to its capital
stock and to its officers, servants and employees, and that all
alike were privileges personal to the corporation or to individ-

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v.-PALMES. 251
0)pinion of the Court.
uals connected with it, entitled to them by the terms of the
law. This exemption, therefore, did not pass from the Alabama
and Florida Railroad Company to the Pensacola and Louisville
Railroad Company by the conveyances which passed the title
to the railroad itself, and to the franchises connected with and
necessary in its construction and operation.
This conclusion is confirmed by the 18th section of the act of
V~ebruary 4th, 1872, amending the charter of the Pensacola and
Louisville Railroad Company. That section recites that the.
last-named company having become assignee of the Alabama
and Florida Railroad Company, and of its franchises and
property, "which corporation was exempt from taxation for a
limited period, the said Pensacola and Louisville Railroad
Company and its property, now owned or hereafter to be
acquired, shall also be exempted from taxation during the
remainder of its said period." Here the original exemption is
declared to be the privilege of the Florida and Alabama Railroad Company, the particular corporation to which it was
granted, and the necessity for conferring it by a new legislative
grant upon the assignee of the property and franchises ofthe
original corporation, rests upon the implication that the exemption did not pass to it by the assignment between the parties.
And the further inference is equally necessary, that the exemption transferred or created in the new company by the
terms of the legislative grant, is identical in its character as a
personal and unassignable privilege to the new grantee,. with
that it had when it belonged to the first company.
But the 2d section of the act of February 27th, 1877,incorporating the Pensacola Railroad Company, authorized and,
empowered it to acquire, by purchase, and assignment, all the
property, rights, franchises, privileges, and immunities of the
Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, and 'upon completion of such purchase and assignment, declared that the
former should be deemed, in law and in equity, to be fully
invested with and entitled to all the said property, rights, f ranchises, privileges, and immunities as though the same were
originally granted to or acquired by the said Pensacola Railroad Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

It is claimed that this language is broad enough to cover the
assignment and transfer of the immunity from taxation granted
to the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company by the 18th
section of its charter. And we are of this opinion. The language is comprehensive and unequivocal, and the word immunity is apt to describe the exemption claimed. It admits of no
doubt, we think, if the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Coipany were entitled to this exemption, and if the legislative
grant of authority to make and accept this assignment of it
was valid and effective, that the right to be exempt from
taxation according to its terms passed to the Pensacola Railroad Company. But it must ,be borne in mind that it must be
taken to have vested in the latter, if at all, precisely as it had
in the former, that is, as a personal privilege. The assignment
in the particular instance, based upon the express authority of.
a new enactment, did not impart to the immunity the quality
of general assignability to other successors in the title to the
property and franchises, claiming only under a conveyance
between the parties.
The title of the plaintiff in error, therefore, to the exemption
claim d, must be supported by some other authority. This is
claimed to be found in the general power, given by the 13th
section of its charter, to the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad
Company to lease or sell to or consolidate with any other railroad company in or out of the State, which power passed with
others to the Pensacola Railroad Company by the 2d section
of its charter. But as we have already seen, and as was dccided in Morganv. Lowdiiana,93 U. S. 17, and lil8on v. Gaines,
103 U. S. 417, the exemption from taxation does not pass by
virtue of a conveyance of the railroad and its franchises, which
-was all the Pensacola Railroad Company could pass under
that authority, but requires for its transfer some particular and
express description, indicating unequivocally the intention of
the legislature that it might pass by an assignment. That does
not exist in this case, 4nd the exemption claimed by the plaintiff in error fails because it was not and could not be transferred
to it, under the law, by the Pensacola Railroad Company.
It is sought to avoid this conclusion by converting the

LOUISVILLE & NASHtVILLE R.R. CO. v. PAILMES. 253
Opinion of the Court.

question into one of pleading. It is said that the bill alleges,
as a matter of fact, that the exemption passed to and vested
in the complainant below, and that the truth of the allegation
is admitted by the demurrer. But this is matter of law; the
documents of title are exhibited with the bill and constitute
part of the record; and we take judicial notice of their legal
effect. A fact impossible in law cannot be admitted by a demurrer. In Mlion v. Gaines, 103 U. S. 417, it was inferred
in the face of a demurrer, claimed to be an admission of a contrary allegation, that the sale did not pass any rights of
property not described as within the lien of the mortgage.
We have thus shown that the claim of the plaintiff in error
to the exemption alleged fails, because the Pensacola Railroad
Company, if it possessed it, had no power to convey it. It will
appear, on further examination, that it fails for a distinct and
deeper reason, namely, because the Pensacola Railroad Company was itself not entitled to any such exemption. That
company was incorporated by the act of February 27th, 1877,
which undoubtedly did purport to grant to it, as assignee of
the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, in terms
sufficiently broad, the immunity from taxation, which, by
the 18th sec. of the act of February 4th, 1872, was expressly
declared to be granted to the latter.
Both the statutes, however, were passed by the general
assembly of Florida, acting under the Constitution of that
State, which went into effect in 1868.
Article XII., sec. 1, of that Constitution, is as follows:
"The legislature shall provide for a uniform and equal rate of
taxation, and shall prescribe such regulations as shall secure a
just valuation of all property, both real and personal, excepting
such property as may be exempted by law for municipal,
educational, scientific, religious, or charitable purposes."
And article XIII., see. 24, is as follows:
"The property of all corporations, whether heretofore or hereafter incorporated, shall be subject to taxation, unless such corporation be for religious, educational, or charitable purposes."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

In 1875 this clause was amended so as to read as follows:
"The property of all corporations, whether heretofore or hereafter incorporated, shall be subject to taxation, unless such property be held and used exclusively for religious, educational, or
charitable purposes."
It is under the authority and in pursuance of the mandates
of these constitutional provisions that the legislature passed the
act of March 5th, 1881, under which the road of the plaintiff in
error is subjected to taxation, and the validity of which is here
under review.
It cannot be and is not contended that under these constitutional limitations the legislature of Florida could make an
original grant to a railroad corporation exempting its railroad
property from taxation.
But the grant to the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Com.pany by the act of 1872, and that to the Pensacola Railroad
Company by the act of 1877, though in form the renewal or
transfers of previously existing grants, were in fact the creation
of new ones. In Tra8k v. .ZkfcGhire, 18 Wall. 391-409, it was
said, speaking of similar provigions in the Constitution of Missouri: "The inhibition of the Constitution applies in all its force
against the renewal of an exemption equally as against its original creation;" and in Sktields v. Ohio, 95 U. S. 319, it was
decided that in cases of corporations created by consolidation,
the powers of the new company did not pass to it by transmission from its constituents, but resulted from a new legislative
grant, that could not transcend the constitutional authority existing at the time it took effect. It follows that the exemption
from taxation in terms contained in the charters of 1872 and
1877 were void, as unauthorized and prohibited by the State
Constitution of 1868.
It does not weaken this conclusion to say that the exemption
contained in the Internal Improvement Act of 1855 was authorized by the Constitution of the State then in force, which may
be admitted, and that it was assignable in its nature or by its
terms in such manner that it became impressed upon the property itself, into whosesoever hands it should afterwards come,

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R.R. CO. v. PALMES. 255
Opinion of the Court.

following the title, like an easement or a convenant running with
the land, which we have shown, however, not to be the case;
for, even on that supposition, the privilege is one that must be
exercised by some person capable in law of accepting and exercising it. The conception of an immunity that is impressed
upon the thing in respect to which it is granted is purely metaphorical. The grant is to a person in respect of a thing, and it
is said to inhere in or be attached to the thing only when by its
terms the grant is assignable by a conveyance of the thing, and
passes as an incident with the title to each successor. There
must always be a person capable not only of receiving the title,
but also of accepting the conditions accompanying it, and which
constitute the exemption; otherwise the conlitions become impossible and void.
After the adoption of the Constitution of Florida of 1868,
there could be no corporation created capable in law of accepting and enjoying such an exemption, for that was prohibited by
the constitutional provisions that have been cited. In the case
of the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company, 1872, the
capacity at that time to receive this privilege depended altogether upon the legislative act amending its charter to that
effect; and if any doubt as to this might be reasonably entertained, certainly none can arise as to the Pensabola Railroad
Company, which derived all its powers and its very existence
from legislation dependent for its validity wholly upon the Constitution of 1868. The prohibition which forbids the legislature
from exempting the property of railroad corporations from taxation, makes it impossible for the legislature to create such a
corporation capable in law of acquiring and holding property
free from liability to taxation.
It has, however, been earnestly urged upon us in argunent,
by counsel for the plaintiff in error, that the Supreme Court of
Florida, in the case of Gonzalez v. Sullivan, 16 Fla. 791, explicity decided, in opposition to the views we have expressed,
that the railroad and property, the subject of this litigation,
then held bythe Pbnsacola and Louisville Railroad Company,
were exempt from taxation, according to the terms of the pro-ision in the Internal Improvement &ct of-1858; and it is pressed

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

upon us as a conclusive determination of the law of Florida
upon the point, particularly authoritative in the present case, for
the reason that the plaintiff in error, .havingsubsequently to
that decision acquired its title, may be presumed to have acted
upon the faith of it.
This presumption is not pressed, however, to the extent of
establishing a contract between the plaintiff in error and the
State of Florida, the obligation of which has been impaired by
any law subsequently passed, nor of working an estoppel
against the State as r8s adjudicata,with an equivalent effect.
The decision cited, therefore, cannot be allowed any greater effect as an authority than ought to be given, in cases of this
description, to the judgments of State tribunals.
The question we have to consider and decide is, whether, in
the judgment under review, the Supreme Court of Florida gave
effect to a law of tbe State which, in violation of the Constitution of the United States, impairs the obligation of a contract.
In reaching a conclusion on that point, we decide for ourselves,
independently of the decision of the State court, whether there
is a contract, and whether its obligation is impaired ; ind if the
decision of the question as to the existence of the alleged contract requres a construction of State constitutions and laws, we
are-not necessarily governed by previous decisions of the State
courts upon the same or similar points, except where they have
been so firmly established as to constitute a rule of property.
Such has been the 'uniform and well-settled doctrine, of this
court. State Bank of Ohio v. .Knoop, 16 How. 369-391.
As was said by Chief Justice Taney in the case of The Oio
Lfe -n8. & Tust Co. v. Debolt,16 How. 416-432: "But this rule
of interpretation is confined to ordinary acts of legislation, and
does not extend to the contracts of the State, although they
should be made in the form of a law. For it would be impossible for this court to exercise any appellate power in a case
of this kind, unless it was at liberty to interpret for itself the
instrument relied on as the contract between the parties. It
must necessarily decide whether the words used are 1 ords of
contract, and what is their true meaninag, before it can determine whether the obligation, the instrurment created, has or hac

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R.R. CO. v. PALMES. 257
Opinion of the Court.

not been impaired by the law complained of. N'ow, in forming its judgment upon this subject, it can make no difference
whether the instrument claimed to be a contract is in the form
of a law, passed by the legislature, or of a covenant or agreement by one of its agents acting under the authority of the
State."
To the same effect are the cases of efferson Branck Bank
v. Skelly, 1 Black, 436, and Bridge Prtoprietor v. Hoboken
Company, 1 Wall. 116.
It is true that in all these cases the State courts, whose judgments were brought into review, had construed the statutes
as not creating a contract; but the principle is equally applicable in the converse case. Burgess v.Seligman, 107 U.
S.20.
It is undoubtedly true that the opinion"'of the Supreme
Court of Florida in the case of Gonzalez v. Sullivan, 16 Fla.
791, is not consistent with that which we have expressed upon
some of the principal questions involved in this case. It did
declare, speaking of the effect of the Internal Improvement Act
of 1855, "that an exemption from taxation resting in contract is
annexed, by the terms of the law which created it, to the road
itself, and not to the companies," and that by the act of 1872
the Pensacola and Louisville :Railroad Company, as assignee of
the Florida and Alabama Railroad, became entitled to the exemption, because "the property passed, and with it, as an incident, went the exemption.".
But the Imain topics of discussion in th. opinion were,
whether. the Florida and Alab.ama Railroad w s within the
' SCOlie of the Internal Improvement Act of January 6th, 1855, by
virtue of the amendment of December 14th, 1855, the constitutional authority to pass which was denied in argunent but affirmed by the court; and the question as to the effect of the
provisions of the Constitation of 1868, which we have considered, upon the capacity of the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad Company and the Pensacola Railroad Company to accept
the privilege and benefit of the exemption, by legislative authority exerted in 1872 and 1877, does not seem to have been
raised or noticed, much less adjudged.
VOL. cix-17

258.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

In our opinion there is no error in the judgment of the Suprene Court of Florida in the matter complained of, and
I 8 accordinglyafirnmed.

UNITED STATES to the use of WILSON, Administrator,
v. WALKER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMThIA.
A ,Ped October 26th, 29tb, 188.-Decided Novembeel9th, 18B.

.)isrict of Columbia-Administrator-urety.
1. When an administrator duly rappointed in the District of Columbia, is removed, and an administrator de bona non appointed in his place, the
administrator de bonis non is not entitled to demand of the administrator
so removed the proceeds of a claim against the United States due the
intestate and collected by the former administrator ; and cannot maintain suit against a surety of the former administrator to recover damages
for failure by the former administrator to pay such sum to the administrator d bonia non.
2. A decree by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, directing an
administrator who has been removed to pay over to an administrator de
bonis non appointed in his place a sum collected -by the former from the
United States for a claim due to the intestate, is vid for want of jurisdiction, and furnishes no ground for maintaining an action against a
surety of the former administrator for failure of that administrator to
comply with the decree.

This was an action at law on an administrator's bond. The
bond was made by Charlotte L. Ames, and 'Cunningham Hazlett, as adininistrators of the estate of Horatio L. Ames, deceased, with Frederick P Sawyer and the defendant in error,
David Walker, sureties. It -was in a penalty of $120,000, was
payable to the United Stafe , and was subject to the condition
that the said Ames and Hazlett should well and truly perform
the office of administrators of Horatio Ames, deceased, and dis.charge the duties of them required as such without any injury
to any person interested in the faithful performance of said
office. Hazlett died at a date not .given, and after his death
and until January 9th, 1875,Charlotte L. Ames continued to be

