N. 0. NAT. BANKING ASS'N v. ADA31S.
Statement of Facts.

sidered, in connection with the certified copy of the record of
the deed itself, as secondary evidence of its contents. In admitting and'considering them the circuit court connuitted no
error ; what effect should be given to them, singly or together,
was for that court, to whom the cause had been submitted,
alone to determine.
We find no error inthe record, and the judgment is

4Afflrmed.

NEW ORLEANS

NATIONAL BANKING
TION v. ADAMS.

ASSOCIA-

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FORTHE DISTRIOT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued October 31st, 1883.-Decided INovember 12th, 1883.
Loui ana-Mortgage.
A executed a promissory note to B, another to C, and two others to D, and
secured all by a mortgage of real estate in Louisiana. The notes to D were
paid at maturity. Default being made by the others, B obtained a decree for foreclosure of the mortgage, and the property was sold to H. E,
being unable to pay the purchase money, agreed in writing with the
holders for time, and that the parties might enforce their judgments in
case of non-payment, and that the original mortgages should remain in
full force and effect, and that they were recognized as operating on the
property to secure the debts. This agreement was recorded in the record
of mortgages. E then conveyed to F, who mortgaged to G. The debt to B
nbt being paid on the expiration of the extension, B instituted proceedings
to foreclose, treating the agreement as a mortgage, and made G a party defendant. Held,
That the agreement was not a mortgage; that to constitute a mortgage there,
must be a present purpose to pledge the estate, and that there was no such
purpose at the time of the agreement. *

In equity. A firm doing business in Louisiana 'under the
name of Tueker Brothers, on February 24th, 1860, made and
delivered their promissory note of that date, for $5,000, payable February15th, 1861, to the Bank of New Orleans, which
afterwards, by virtue of the provisions of the "act to provide
a national currency," etc., passed June 3d, 1864, became a
national bank under the name of the New Orleans National

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

Banking Association. Tucker Brothers, on the same day,
executed three other notes, for $5,000, one of them, payable to
Godfrey Barnsley, falling due January 21st, 1861. To secure
these four notes the makers executed a mortgage on a certain
plantation in La Fourche Parish, Louisiana. Two of the notes
were paid, but those given to the Bank of New Orleans and
arnsley were not paid at maturity. Thereupon the bank,
having instituited a suit on the mortgage and the note held by
it, on -June 11th, 1867, obtained a decree of foreclosure against
Tucker Brothers, by virtue of which, on September 7th, 1867,
the mortgaged property was sold by the sheriff to one Albert
N. Cummings for the price of $13,025 to satisfy said unpaid
notes. Cummings being unable to pay the purchase moncy, it
was agreed between him and the parties entitled to the proceeds of the sale that he should have time; whereupon Cummings, on September 7th, 1867, executed an agreement in
writing, before J. K. Gourdain, a notary of the parish of La
Fourche, in which he recited that he had not paid the purchase
money of the plantation, and declared as follows:

-B

"That he corresponded and compromised with the mortgage
creditors hereinafter named, who agreed to give him time, without, however, impairing or novating the original claims, the right
to enforce which they expressly reserved."
Cummings then by this same agreement stipulated that out of

the price of the plantation he would pay to one Gaubert the
sum of $1,851.10, on or before March 1st, 1861, he holding the
first privilege on a part of the plantation for that amount; to
Barnsley the sum of $4,9041.40, on or before May 15th, 1870;
and to the Bank of New Orleans $6,269.50, on or before May
1st, 1870; and that all these sums should bear interest at the rate
of eight per cent. per annum after maturity till paid. The
agreement then further declared as follows:
"It is understood, as above stated, that the parties hereto do
not by those presents impair, affect, or novate their existing.
claims, and that in case of non-payment they will be entitled to
enforce the judgments which may be held by them; and furthermore, that ihe original mortgages and privileges remain in full

N. 0. NAT. BANKING ASS'N v. ADAMS.
Statement of Facts.

force and effect, and are not hereby novated, and if need be, for
the purpose of avoiding all doubts, the said privileges and mortgages are hereby recognized as operating on the said-property in
the ptoportions aforesaid, and to secure the debts stated as aforesaid with the rank above stated."
This agreement was duly recorded in the office of the recorder of mortgages for the parish of La Fourche on September
12th, 1867.
After the making of this agreement, Cummings, without
having paid the sums the payment of which was promised
thereby, sold the property to a Mrs. Tucker, who conveyed an
undivided half interest to one Thomas J. Daunis, and Mrs.
Tucker and Daunis then executed a mortgage on the same to
John I. Adams & Co., to secure certain notes made by Daunis
to said firm, after which Mrs. Tucker conveyed her, undivided
half of the property to Daunis. Subsequently the Bank of New
Orleans, now become the New Orleans National Banking Association, assuming that the agreement entered into by Cummings
before Gourdain, the notary, on September 7th, 1867, constituted a mortgage by which the balance found thereby to be
due it from Cummings was secured, filed the bill in this case
to foreclose the same. The bill made the firm of John I.
Adams & Co. parties defendant, charging that said firm
claimed to have a mortgage on the property covered by the
alleged mortgage of the complainant; and that if said firm had
any lien upon or interest in said premises it was subsequent to
September 12th, 1867, the date of the inscription of the complainant's alleged mortgage.
To this bill John I. Adams & Co. filed a plea and answer, m
which they set up that they, being holders of certain notes
secured by a mortgage on the property described in the bill of
complaint, instituted a certain suit upon the same against
Thomas J. Daunis, in the district court sitting for the Parish
of La Fourche, and obtained a writ of seizure and sale against
said property, under and by virtue of which the same was
seized by the sheriff, and in October, 1875, sold to John I
Adams, who claimed title thereto. They further alleged that

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Cort.

the agreement dated September 7th, 1867, set forth in the complainant's bill, was not a mortgage, and if it were, it was
proscribed, because it had not been reinscribed within ten years
from the date of the original inscription, as required by law.
Upon final hearing upon the pleadings and evidence, the circuit court dismissed the bill, and from its decree the complainant appealed.
Ar. T D. Rouse, 21r. William Grant, and .Mr. T/omas L.
Bayne for appellants.
MiWr. Joseph P. Hornor, and XM. W. S. Benedict for appellees.
:MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded by counsel for complainant that the original
mortgage made by Tucker Brothers, dated February 24th, 1860,
and the decree rendered thereon in favor*-of the Bank of New
Orleans by the District Court of the Parish of La Fourche, in
June, 1867, were both extinguished by the sale of the mortgaged premises to Cummings on September 7th, 1867.
But complainant insists that the agreement made by Cummings on the day last named, with the Bank of New Orleans
and other parties entitled to the proceeds of the sale, constituted
a mortgage, and that the same having, on September 12th,
1867, been recorded in the office of the recorder of mortgages
for the parish in which the lan'ds were situate, secured them a
lien and privilege on the premises from the date of said record.
We are of the opinion that this contention is not well founded.
While it may be conceded that no precise form of words is necessary to constitute a mortgage, yet there must be a present
purpose of the mortgagor to pledge his land for the payment of
a sum of money, or the performance of some other act, or it
cannot be construed to be a mortgage. WRIcow v. Yorris, 1
Murphy, 116 (S. C. 3 Am. Dec. 678).
The agreement of September 7th, 1867, does not, on its face or
by its terms, profess to create a lien in favor of the Bank of
New Orleans on the premises in question, but it recites that the
parties thereto do not thereby impair, affect, or novate their ex-

N. 0. NAT. BANKING ASS'N v. ADAMS.
Opinion of the Court.

isting claims; that the original mortgages and privileges remain
in full force and are recognized as operating on said property
"to secure 'the debts stated as aforesaid with the'rank above
stated." The agreemen is not of doubtful meaning. Its purpose is to recognize the old mortgage made by Tucker Brothers in 1860 and to preserve its lien on the mortgaged premises
from the date of its inscription.
The contention of complainant is not that the agreement is a
mortgage to secure the notes made by Tucker Brothers, but to
secure from Cummings the price which he bid for the premises
at the sale made to satisfy the mortgage executed by Tucker
Brothers. The bill of complainant is framed upon this theory.
But the fault of this theory is, that the agreement does not profess, of its own force, to secure the money due from Cummings,
but excludes the idea that such is its purpose by declaring that
the original mortgages are recognized as operating on said
property to secure the sums due from Cummings.
It is perfectly clear, thereforer that the agreement of September 7th, 1867, was not intended by the parties as a new mortgage to take effect at that date, but as a recognition of the old
mortgage, and that its purpose was to keep it alive dnd to
preserve its lien as of the date of its inscription.
In other words, Cumming, .by this agreement undertakes to
keep alive and in full force a mortgage made by another party
after it had been foreclosed, the mortgaged property sold, and
the mortgage and the decree rendered thereon extinguished.
It was not in his power to do this. It follows that the effect
of the agreement of-Cummings of September 7th, 1867, is simply
as a contract to pay the parties entitled to it the purchase money
of the premises bought by him, and creates no lien or privilege
on the premises sold. In other words, it is not a mortgage.
This view is supported by the decision of the Supreme Court
of Louisiana in the case of Adams v. Daunis, 29 La. Ann. 315.
This was the proceeding by Adams to cause to be erased the
mortgages anterior to his purchase of the premises in question.
The agreement of Cummings of September 7th, 1867, was put in
evidence in that case, and this court held it to be no mortgage.
The decree of the circuit court must be affitmed

