OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

that the Corcoraij truftees were made defendants for no otier
purpose than that they might be bound by that decree. And,
lastly, as the decree did undoubtedly dispose of that question,
its conclusiveness cannot now be assailed collaterally, on a question of pleading, when it is clear that the issue was fairly made
and was argued by Corcoran's counsel, as is shown by the third
head of .their .brief, made a part of this record by stipulation."
And in conclusion the court say: "It seems to us very clear that
the 'question we are now called on to decide has been already
decided by a court of competent jurisdiction which had before it
the parties to the present suit; that it was decided on an issue
properly rai~ed, to which Issue both complainant and defendant
here were pirties, and in which the appellant here was actually
heard by his own counsel; and that it, therefore, falls within
the salutary rule of law which makes -such a decision final and
conclusive between the parties, and that none of the exceptions to
that rule exist in this case."
We are of opinion that both demurrers were properly overruled, and

Iffim he judgment of the circuit court.
M . JusTCE MArix ws did not sit in this case.

ThDIK- A SOUTHERN RAILROAD COMPANY v. LIVERPOOL, LOTDON & GLOBE IN{SURANTCE COMPAN~T.
APPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE' DISTRICT OF IN'DINNA.
Argued October 15tfi, 1883.-Decided November 6th, 1888.

Appea-Equity-Forelouure--ortgage-Practice---Railroad.
1. When it is within the discretion of the court below to grant or to refuse
leave to file a cross-bill, the refusal to grant such leave is no ground of

appeal.
2. The court will not review an alleged error respecting the proof in a railroad
foreclosure suit and the allowance of amounts due to kolders of mor -

IND. & S.RR. CO. v. L.L. & G. INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.
gage bonds, if "theevidence presented before the master is not before it
and if no objection to the Proof was taken below.
3.When mortgage creditors take no appeal from a decree of foreclosure, the
court will not, in an appeal by the debtor, inquire whether the creditor
should not have had more.

The facts appear in th6' opinion of the court. The -points
presented in the briefs were mainly on the facts.
2r. -A. Z. 1?oache and 2r. S. A. Huf, for the appellants.
Xr. George Hoadly and Mr. B. ffarrio, for the appellee.
MR. CmEF JusTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.

These are appeals from a final decree in a suit brought by.
the Liverpool, London & Globe Insurance Compaffy to foreclose a mortgage given by the Indiana Southern Railroad
Company to William H. Swift and Samuel 5. Tilden, trustees,
to secure an issue of bonds, fifteen hundred of which, amounting
in the aggregate to $1,500,000, are held by the insurance
company.
The suit was begun in a State court on the 13th of June,
1868, but on the 24th of lNovember, 1871, it was removed to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Indiana. Among the defendants, when the removal was
made, were the Ohio & Mississippi Railway Company and the
Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati Railroad Company.
The Indiana Southern company acquired its title to the
mortgaged property in January, 1866, by purchase at a foreclosure sale of the property of the Fort Wayne & Southeim
Railro d Company. When this purchase was made, the railroad was in an unfinished condition, and the Indiana Southern
company' itself abandoned all work upon it early in 1867. A
part only of the line was graded by these companies, and no
ties or rails were ever laid by either of them. The Indiana
Southern company is confessedly insolvent.
After the proceedings for the foreclosure of the mortgage of
the Fort Wayne & Southern company had been finished, after
the mortgage by the Indiana Southern c6mpany to Swift and
Tilden had been executed, and after the cotnmenement of this
suit for its foreclosure, the Ohio & Mississippi company and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati company each purchased
from the Fort Wayne & Southern company a paxt of the line
of that company, the purchasing companies intending to use the
property purchased in the construction of their respective
roads. They claimed that the proceedings for the foreclosure
of the mortgage of the Fort Wayne & Southern company were
invalid, and that their title by purchase from that company
was superior to the title of the. Indiana Southern company and
its mortgagees. Upon their purchase they each entered into
the possession of their respective portions of the old line, and
proceeded to construct and finish their several roads thereon.
On the 12th of September, 1872, Swift and Tilden, the
trustees of the Indiana Southern mortgage, filed a cross-bill in
the cause, the object and purpose of which was to foreclose the
mortgage for the benefit of all bondholders, and to quiet their
title as against the adverse claims of the Ohio & Mississippi and
Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati companies. The Indiana
Southern company has never answered either the bill or the
cross-bill, and on the 24th of September, 1872, an order was
entered in due form that the bill and cross-bill be taken as
confessed by that company. On the 14th of lNovember, 1873,
a reference to a master was ordered. to ascertain and report
the amounts due to bondholders on the Indiana Southern
mortgage. On the 18th of December, 1873, the Ohio &
Mississippi and Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati companies
each filed answers to the bill and cross-bill, setting up their
respective titles and what they had done pending the suit in the
construction of their roads upon and over a part of the original
right of way and grading of the Fort Wayne and Southern
company. Before this time, an agreement of. compromise had
been entered into between the insurance company and the two
purch,,inerailroad companies, to take effect if all the other
parties in interest should give their assent. This assent does
not appear to have been obtained.
On the 21st of April, f877, the master made a report, stating
the amounts due the several bondholders who had proven their
claims before him, and on the 17th of May the Indiana
Southern company filed exceptions to all his allowances. On

IND.& S. R. R. CO. v. L.L.& G. INS. CO.
Oninion of the Court.

the 2d of January, .1878, the same company appeared and
moved to set aside the order referring. the. case to the master,
and also for leave to file a cross-bill, the prayer of which-was,
1, that the insurance company be required to take issue on the
answers of the. two railroad companies; 2, that the Indiana
Southern company might have leave todo the same thing; and
3, that a receiver be appointed to take the possession of the property from the two companies, and hold it pending the suit.
Leave to file this cross-bill was refused, but no action was
taken directly on the motion to set aside the order of reference.
On the 2d of July, 1879, William H. Guion, claiming to
have an interest in the bonds held by the insurance company,
fied a petition to be admitted as a party to the suit for his own
protection. This petition was denied.
On the 28th of January, 1880, both the trustees and the
insurance company filed replications to the answers of the two
railroad companies and the cause was thereupon submitted to
the court, by all the parties who had appeared and pleaded, on
the original and cross-bills, the answers thereto, the replications and proofs; and on consideration a decree was entered,
finding due to the insurance company the full amount of the
bonds held by it, principal and interest, being more than two
millions of dollars, and to the other parties who had "presented
their claims the sums reported in their favor respectively by the
master. It then ordered a sale 'of the mortgaged property,
subject "to the right of the Ohio & -Mississippi Railway
Company and the Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati Railroad
Company, to remove from said right of way or real .estate any
ties, rails, and other structures by them respectively placed
thereon, or, by proceedings under their power of eminent
domain, to appropriate such portions of said right of way used
and possessed by them respectively, on making compensaon
therefor in accordance with law."
From this decree the Indiana Southern company took an
appeal, giving security for costs only. Gui6n was also allowed
an appeal on giving bond and security for costs, but the
transcript does not show that he ever gave'the bond.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The objections made to the decree by the Indiana Southern
company are:
1. Because leave was refused the company to file its crossbill;
2. Because the amounts found due the respective bondholders
were not supported by sufficient evidence ; and3. Because -of the reservations in favor of the Ohio &
Mississippi and Fort Wayne, Muncie & Cincinnati companies.
The objection of Guion is that he was refused leave to
become a party to the suit.As to the first, objection of the railroad company, it is
sufficient to say that it was, under the circumstances clearly
within the discretion of the court to refuse leave to file the
cross-bill. The object of the railroad company was to get
replications to the answers of the two intervening, or, as they
are called in the argument, intruding railroad companies, and
the appointment of a receiver. The replications were afterwards filed by the insurance company and the trustees, and
the case was clearly not one in which the appointment of a receiver would have been proper. If it had been, no cross-bill
was necessary to get the appointment. The Indiana Southern
company was a party to the suit, and could move in that particular as well without as with a cross-bill.
As to the second objection. While this point is made in the
assignment of errors, it was not mentioned in the argument.
The evidence presented to the master in support of the claims
of the seveial appearing bondholders has not been sent up. The
master says they each presented sworn statements of their title,
and also presented and filed with him their bonds and coupons.
As no objections were made to any of the proof, the claims
were allowed as presented. Under these circumstances, we
cannot review the decree in this particular.
As to the third objection. The railroad company has alone
appealed. The bondholders and trustees under the mortgage
are satisfied with the decree as it has been entered. The railroad company has no other property which can be subjected to
the payment of the balance of the mortgage debt remaining due
after the mortgage is exhausted, and if the mortgagees are

GUION v. LIV. LON. & GLOBE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

satisfied with the security as it has been adjudged to them,,we
see no reason for inquiring, on the suggestion of the railroad
company only, at this late day, whether they might not have
had more.

The decree i8 afirmed.

GUION v. LIVERPOOL, LONDON, AND GLOBE
INSURANCE (O.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Argned October 15th, 1883.-iecided November 5th, 1883.'

Appeal.

A person not a party in a suit cannot take an appeal in it.
On the 2d July, 1879, William H. Guion, claiming to have
an interest in the bonds of the appellee which were the subject
of controversy in the suit of Thp Indiana Southern Railroad
Company v. The Liverpool, Londo , & Globe Inmuranve Company, just reported, filed his petition in that suit in the court
below, asking to be admitted as a party to the suit for his own
protection. This petition was denied. Guion was allowed an
appeal on giving" bond and security for cost, but the transcript
does not show that he ever gave the bond.
The case was argued simultaneously with the case of The Indiana Southern Railroad Conpany, and by the same counsel

MR. CHIEF JUsTic WAITE, in delivering the opinion of the
court in that case, said:
The petition of Guion was for leave to appeal from a decree
in a suit to which he was not a party. We decided in Exparte
Cutting, 94 U. S. 14, that such an appeal could not be taken.
He had applied for leave to become a party, but this leave was
not given. So he is not a party to the decree from which he
appeals. But if he is, he has never perfected an appeal by
giving the hecessary security.
Appeal dismiesedfor want of jurisdicton.

