OASES ADJUDGED
fl(THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED. STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.

OSBORNE v. ADAMS COUNTY.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
DISTRICT OF NEBMASKA.
Submitted October Term, 1882.-Decided October 15th, 1883.

Internal Inprovements-Afunicipa2 Bonds-Statutes.
Application being made to open the judgment in this case in order to enable
the court to consider the case of Traverv. H3ferri k County, decided by the
Supreme Court of Nebraska, and the court now-having considered it : Beld,
that that cae is an authority insupport of the former ruling of this court
in this ease.

Motion for rehearing.
in the opinion.

The statement of facts appears fully

JUSTICE HARAIw delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was decided at the last term of this court, and is
reported in 106 U. S., 181. We there held that a steam gristmill was not a work of internal improvement, within the meaning of the statute of Nebraska approved February 15, 1869,
authorizing counties, cities, and precincts of organized counties
"to issue bonds to aid in the construction of any railroad or
other work of internal improvement." It was also said that
the court was not justified by anything in Tounship of BurZHngtmo v. Beasley, 94 U. S. 310, or in the decisions of the
Mu.

VOL. cM-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Optnion of the Court.

courts of Nebraska, "in holding that a steam or other kind of
grist-mill is of the class ot internal improvements which municipal townships in that State are empowered, by the statute in
question, to aid by an issue of bonds."
A petition for rehearing Was filed near the close of the last
term, calling our attention to the fact that the Supreme Court
of Nebraska had then recently decided that a grist-mill operated
by water power was a work of internal improvement within
the meaning of the before-mentioned statute. The judgment
was suspended in order that appellee might have an opportunity
of presenting the full text of the opinion of the State court.
That has been done at the present term. The case to which
reference is made is Traver v. Aeick Counzy, the opinion in
which was not filed in the State court until after the close of
our last term.
It is quite true, as claimed by counsel for appellee, that the
State court does, in that case, rule that a water grist-mill is a
work of internal improvement within the meaning of the statute in question. But the court takes care to say:
"In our view there is a clear distinction between aiding the
development of the water power of the State-a power that is
continuing in its nature and may be used without cost'or expense,
and must be used at certain points on a stream where a dam can
be erected and power obtained-and a mill propelled by steam,
that must be attended with a continuous cost for fuel, and may
at any.time be moved to another locality."
So far from the decision of the State court furnishing any
ground for a rehearing, it is an authority in support of that
construction of the act of 1861 which excludes steam grist-mills
from the class of internal improvements in aid of which counties, cities, and precincts of organized counties are, by that
statute, authorized to issue their bonds.
Ie rehearing i8 denied.

