'.OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

My brethren say that "on the hypothesis that the foreclosure by the governor was valid, the trust asserted by plaintiff is
vested in the State as trustee, and not in any of the officers
sued." But, may not the court inquire whether that hypothesis
be sound I Must it be assumed to be sound because the officers
of the State so declare? Besides, if the alleged trust was
vested in the State as trustee-if, as claimed by complainant,
the State became the trustee of the property mortgaged for
the benefit of the bondholders-may not the court proceed to
a decree as between the parties to the record? If the trustee
cannot be made a party, and refuses to appear, the court ought
not, for that reason, to permit the interests of others to be sacrificed.
If the officers of the United States may be deprived of the
possession of property held by them for the government, but
the title to which is judicially ascertained, in an action against
them only, not to be legally in the United States, I do not see
why the courts may not, at the suit of the citizen, enforce his
claims upon property as against officers of a State, who may be
judicially ascertained, in a suit against them, not to be in rightfal possession for such State. Such relief would not conclude the
rights of the State, but would leave to her the privilege of
asserting her claim in any court of competent jurisdiction.
I am authorized by -MR. JusTIc. FIELD to say that he concurs
in this opinion.

LEROUX and Another v. HIUDSOI, As~ignee.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGA.N.
Argued November 6th, 7th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 1883.

Bankmrptcy- Conflict of Laws-Equity- Turisdction-Statutles.

1. A marshal of th6 United States, who, under a provisional warrant in bankruptcy, has, after receiving a bond of indemnity under General ,Order
No. 18, in bankruptcy seized goods as the property of the debtor, and
been sued for damages for such seizure, in an action of trespass;i a State

LEROUX v. HUDSON.
Statement of Facts.
court, by a third person, who claimed that the goods were his property
at the time of the seizure, cannot maintain a suit in equity in a circuit
court of the United States, for an injunction to restrain the further
prosecution of the action of trespass, the parties to the suit in equity
being citizens of the same State.
2. Such marshal having delivered the goods seized to the assignee in bankruptcy appointed, after an adjudication of bankruptcy, in the proceeding
in which the provisional warrant, was issued, and the assignee having
sold the goods, under the order of the court in bankruptcy, without giving to the plaintiff in the action of trespass any notice, under § 5063
of the Revised Statutes, of the application for the order of sale or of the
sale, and such plaintiff not having brought any action against the assignee to recover the goods, or applied to the bankruptcy court for the
proceeds of sale, and the assignee not being sued in the action of trespass,
he cannot bring a suit in equity in a circuit court of the United States,
joining the marshal as plaifitiff, against the plaintiff in the action of
trespass, to have the title to the goods determined, on the allegation that
they were transferred to such plaintiff in fraud of the bankruptcy act,
and for an injunction restraining the prosecution of that action.

Bill in equity to restrain the prosecution of an action in the
State courts of Michigan, against the assignee of a bankrupt and
the marshal of the -Eastern District of Michigan, for entering on
the premises of Leroux and removing goods claimed by the assignee to be the property of the bankrupt, and to quiet the title
to said goods in the assignee. The material facts were aa follows:
On the 14th of March, 1878, proceedings in involuntary bankruptcy were instituted in the District Court of the -United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan, against Samuel
Schott and Philip Feibish, composing the firm of Schott &
Feibish. On the same day a warrant was issued by the court
to*the marshal, under § 5024 of th6 Revised Statutes, commandirg him "to take possession provisionally of all the property and effects of the debtors." The petitioning creditors
gave a bond of indemnity to the marshal, under Order No. 13
of the General Orders in Bankruptcy, and required him to
seize, under the warrant, as the property of the debtors, certain
goods in the hands of Joseph P. Leroux and Max Schott, composing the firm of Leroux & Co., then in the store of the latter
at Bay City, Bay County, Michigan, which goods the creditors al-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Statement of Facts.

leged had been transferred to J. Leroux & Co. by Samuel Schott
and Feibish, in violation of the bankruptcy law. The seizure
was made on the 29th of March by the marshal, Salmon S. Matthews, assisted by his deputies, Myron Bunnell and Horace
Becker. An adjudication of bankruptcy was made against Samuel Schott and Feibish on the 13th of April. On the 22d of April
J. Leroux & Co. commenced an action of trespass in the Circuit
Court for Bay County, Michigan, against Matthews, Bunnell
and Becker, to recover $25,000 damages for the acts of the defendants, on the 29th of March, in breaking and entering the
store at Bay City and injuring the same, and taking therefrom and carrying away goods of the value of $25,000, the
property of the plaintiffs, and converting the same to their own
use, and preventing the plaintiffs, for three days, from carrying
on their lawful business in the store. On the 0th of May Joseph L. Hudson was appointed assignee in bankruptcy of Samuel Schott and Feibish, and became duly vested with that
office. Thereupon the marshal delivered the goods to the
assignee, and the latter took possession of them as part of the
estate of the bankrupts. The defendants in the trespass suit
appeared therein by attorney and demanded a trial, and served
a notice of defence, setting up the issuing of the provisional
warrant, the seizure of the goods thereunder, the fact that they
were the goods of Samuel Schott and Feibish, the adjudication
in bankruptcy, the appointment of an assignee, and the fact
that the goods had been turned over by the marshal to the
assignee, and were held by him as a part of the estate of the
bankrupts. At a term of the State Circuit Court, in September following, on application of the defendants, the trial of the
suit was postponed to the next term, on affidavit of the illness
and absence of an important witness.
Iii October, 1878, Hudson (the assignee), Matthews (the
marshal), and Bunnell and Becker filed a bill in equity, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Michigan, against Leroux and MIax Schott, setting forth the
substance of the above facts, and alleging that the goods had
been sold by the assignee under the order of the bankruptcy
court; that he-was holding the proceeds to be applied as a part

LEROUX v. RUDSON.
Statement of Facts.

of the estate of the bankrupts, if the title should be found to be
in the assignee, or he should be entitled to the said assets
as assignee and to distribute the §ame as part of the estate;
and that he had the proceeds in hand awaiting the determination of that question. The bill also alleged that the goods
were transferred by the bankrupts, when insolvent, to Leroux
and Max Schott, with a view to prevefit them from coming to
the assignee in bankruptcy, and a large part of them within
three months before the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
and when Leroux and Max Schott knew that the -transfer was
made with a view to prevent the goods from going to the
assignee, and to prevent them from being distributed under the
bankruptcy act, to defeat its object and to injure and delay its
operation and evade its provisions; that the transfers of the
goods were, therefore, void, and the title to them became
vested in the assignee; that he claimed that by reason of the
suit in the State court he was unable to proceed with the settlement of the estate of the bankrupts; that the funds so
received by him for the goods must be kept until the question
in reference to their title should be determined; and that the
question in regard to the fraud on the bankruptcy act, so
attempted, could not be litigated and determined in the State
court. The bill then set forth various matters intended to
show the existence of such fraud, and prayed that Leroux and
Max Schott be enjoined from further prosecuting their suit, or
any other suit, in a State court, for damages in regard to the
goods seized by the marshal, and that if they should claim any
interest therein they should proceed to establish their claim in
the Ciranit Court of the United States or in the District Court
in bankruptcy. It also prayed that any sale or transfer of the
goods from the bankrupts to Leroux and Max Schott be set
aside and decreed to be in violation of the bankruptcy act, and
that the goods be decreed to be a part of the estate of the bankrupts, and that the title of the assignee to the goods or the
funds arising therefrom be quieted and decreed to be perfected
in him. In November following, on notice and after a hearing, the court granted a preliminary injunction in accordance
with the prayer of the bill. Each of the-defendants demurred

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Appellees.

separately to the bill for want of jurisdiction and want of
equity. The demurrers were overruled, on a hearing. Each of
the defendants then answered separately. The answers maintained the right of the defendants to proceed with the suit in
the State court, and averred that they owned the goods at the
time of the seizure, and denied the equity of the bill. Proofs
were taken in the cause on both sides. At the close of the
plaintiffs' proofs, the defendants entered on the record a protest against the jurisdiction of the court, with a statement that,
by bringing the suit in the State court, they had not sought in
any manner to interfere with the goods seized, but had waived
the question of interference with the goods. A decree was entered adjudging that the goods -were, at the time of their seizure, a part of the estate of the bankrupts; that the title thereto
vested in the assignee; that the sale or transfer of them to the
defendants was in violation of the bankruptcy act, and should
be set aside; that the title of the assignee to the goods and
their proceeds be quieted and declared to be perfect; and that
the defendants be perpetually enjoined according to the prayer
of the bill. From this decree the defendants appealed.
3.r. Don _W. L)ickison for the appellants.
_M. H. 0. TVisner for the appellees.-I. The circuit court
has jurisdiction to entertain, hear and determine the case presented by the bill, as to the title of the assignee to the goods;
R. S. § 4979 ; R. S. § 630; Allan v, JWassey, 17 Wall. 351; Ehx
ParteSchwa, 98 U. S. 240.-I1. The evidence shows that the
property belonged to the estate of the bankrupts, at the time
of the Beizure.-III. The circuit court having found and adjudged the property in question to belong to and to be a part
of the estate in bankruptcy of which complainant Htudson is
assignee, that court has the power to stop all further litigation
upon that question between appellant and the. marshal. .,v
.parte Christy, 3 How. 292; Peck v. tlennes, I How. 612;
this delegation of power to the federal courts is in terms so
broad that they are enabled to reach and determine every
question in any way materially affecting the successful work-

LEROUX v. HUDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing out -of the system. And having such power, which in
other words is jurisdiction, and having adjudged questions by
virtue of it, and decreed what shall be done, its power to enforce that decree by any necessary writ or process must be
undoubted. French v. Hay, 22 Wall. 259 ; _Dietzsch v. Hfuidekoper, 103 U. S. 494. The answer made to this, however, is,
that the suit in the State court having been commenced before
the bill was filed in this case, that court first acquired jurisdiction of the parties and subject-matter, and hence cannot be
interfered with by any other court, and in support of this
answer Peck v. Jcnnes ., 7 How. 612, and like cases are cited.
These suits, if prosecuted to judgment, may result in a decision
contrary to that of the circuit court, and the marshal be called
upon to pay for the property. Before being concluded years
may intervene in a litigation through the system of State
courts, thence to this court. Sharpe v. -Doyle, 102 'U.
S. 686.
.XEr. 1Thn. F. Oogswell for the appellees.-I. The transfer of
the goods was fraudulent, both at common law, the statute of
frauds of Michigan and the bankruptcy law. There has never
been a time since Twyne's case that these .transactions would
not be held fraudulent.-II. The court had ample jurisdiction
to adjudge the transfers fraudulent, and that the property belonged to the assignee, and to restrain the vexatious actions
brought against its officers in the State courts. The act of
March 3d, 1793, 1 Stat. 331, is not applicable to this case, because the injunction asked for is authorized by law, and relates
to proceedings in bankruptcy. R. S. § '20.
MR.JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the foregoing facts, he said:
This suit divides itself into two branches-the case of the
assignee, and that of the marshal and his deputies. The assignee was not a party to the trespass suit. The plaintiffs in
that suit, abandoning all pursuit of the goods and all action
against the assignee, brought and continued their suit for damages against the marshal and his deputies. They did not disturb the possession of the goods in the assignee, or claim the

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of the goods. Although the bill states that the assignee, on applying to the bankruptcy court for an order to sell
the goods, made known to it the facts as to the claim of Leroux
and Max Schott thereto, it is not averred that any notice was
given to them of the intention to sell or of the sale. It is pro,
vided as follows by § 5063 of the Revised Statutes:
"Whenever it appears to the satisfaction of the bankruptcy
court that the title to any portion of an estate, real or personal,
which has come into the possession of the assignee, or which is
claimed by him, is in dispute, the court may, upon the petition of
the assignee, and'after such notice to the claimant, his agent or attorney, as the court shall deem reasonable, order it to be sold under
the direction of the assignee, who shall hold the funds received in
place of the estate disposed of ; and the proceeds of the sale shall
be considered the measure of the value of the property, in any suit
or controversy between the parties, in any court. But this provi-

sion shall not prevent the recovery of the property from the possession of the assignee by any proper action commenced at any time
before the court orders the sale."
The failure to give any notice to Leroux and Max Schott of
the application for the order to sell the goods, although the
facts as to their claim were laid before the bankruptcy, court,
and the fact that no suit was brought against the assignee to
recover the possession of the goods from him, are evidence that
the bankruptcy court and the assignee did not regard, and
could not regard, the case as one where, under § 5063, the title
to the goods was in dispute. It, was not in dispute as between
Leroux and Max Schott of the one part and the assignee of the
other part. The former abandoned the goods and all claim to
them or to their proceeds, and the assignee acted on that view
in selling the goods without notice.

They relied solely on their

suit in trespass, and the defendants in that suit relied for protection, in case of adverse result, not on the goods or their
proceeds, but on the bond of indemnity which the petitioning
creditors lad given to the marshal. Under these circumstances, after pleading in the suit in the State court, and procuring a postponement of the trial, the defendants in that suit

LEROUX v. HUDSON.
Opinion of the Court.

and the assignee joined in bringing the bill in equity. Had the
Circuit Court of the United States any cognizance of the suit?
There was no common interest between the assignee and the
other plaintiffs. The assignee was not sued in the State court.
When the suit in equity was brought, the marshal had no interest in the goods, and no right to rely on them or their proceeds
for indemnity, and no right to look to the assignee for protection. The marshal turned the goods over to the assignee, and
did so voluntarily, so far as appears, relying on the bond of indemnity as his protection, and substituting that in place of a
retention of the goods, when he might well have insisted on
retaining them, if Leroux and Max Schott still claimed title to
them, inasmuch as the suit in trespass was brought before the
goods were turned over to the assignee.
An assignee in bankruptcy has, by § 5129, the right, in case
of a transfor of property to a person not a creditor of the bankrupt, in violation of that section, to "recover the property or
the value thereof, as assets of the bankrupt." Here the assignee had the property, and there was no occasion for him to
bring a suit to recover it.
By § 4979, a circuit court of the United States has jurisdiction of a suit "at law or in equity brought by an assignee in
bankruptcy against any person claiming an adverse interest, or
by any such person against an assignee, touching any property
or rights of the bankrupt transferable to or vested in the assignee." The jurisdiction invoked by the assignee in this case
cannot be maintained under § 4979. It does not appear by the
bill or the proofs that the defendants claim an interest in the
proceeds of the goods adverse to the interest which the assignee
claims in such proceeds. When the bill was filed the goods
had been sold and were represented by their proceeds in the
hands of the assignee. The only interest which the assignee
then had touching the goods or in their proceeds was his claim
to own those proceeds as assignee. No interest could be adverse to such interest of his unless it was another claim to own
or receive those proceeds. The defendants made no such claim.
The bill does not allege that they did, but it and the proofs
show that from the the they brought the trespass suit they

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

never disputed the right of the assignee to deal with the goods
and their proceeds as a part of the assets of the estate. Nor is
the bill filed to remove a cloud on the title to real estate or
to set aside written instruments of title which might interpose
obstacles to the rights of the assignee in the goods or their
proceeds.
It is enacted by § 630 of the Revised Statutes "that the
circuit court shall have jurisdiction in matters in bankruptcy,
to be exercised within the limits and in the manner provided
by law." This refers to the limitations in § 4979. As the
bill avers that all the parties are citizens of Michigan, the jurisdiction of the circuit court in this case must be given by the
bankruptcy statute, or it does not exist. We are of opinion,
upon full consideration, that it is not so given, notwithstanding what %as said by this court in IEvparte Schwab, 98 U. S.
240.
It may, moreover, be said, that if there were jurisdiction by
the citizenship of the parties, a bill such as this, by the assignee
in bankruptcy, to obtain such relief as he asked in respect to
his own rights, would not lie, he being in possession, and his
right to assert possession and ownership and to control and
dispose of the property and its proceeds not being questioned
or threatened.
As regar4s the marshal and his deputies, apart from the
assignee, there is nothing in the bankruptcy statute which
authorizes them to invoke the action of the circuit court, for
any relief by injunction in respect to the suit for trespass. As
the assignee had no - right conferred by that statute to bring
the suit in equity iii respect to any claim of his own, he had
no right as assignee to bring it in respect to any claim of his
co-plaintiffs, nor had all together any right conferred by that
statute to bring it. The relief sought by injunction depends
wholly, as the bill is framed, on the right of the assignee, as
such, to maintain the suit in respect to his own case.
If the case as to the marshal and his deputies were one of
jurisdiction by citizenship of the parties, it would fall within
the principles laid down by, this court in Buck v. Colbath, 3
Wall. 334. The provisional warrant being one merely com-

SCHOTT v. HUDSONQ'.
Opinion of the Court.

manding the marshal to seize the property of the debtors, it
was for the marshal to determine for himself whether the goods
seized were legally liable to seizure under the warrant, and the
circuit court could afford him no protection against the consequences of an erroneous exercise of his judgment in that determination. He was liable to suit in any court of competent
jurisdiction, for injuries growing out of his mistakes. The
State court in which the suit for trespass was brought was
such a court, and that suit was an appropriate suit. The
parties bringing it were entitled to proceed with that suit in
that forum. As was said in Buck v. Colbath, there was nothing
in the mere fact that the provisional warrant issued from a
federal court, "to prevent the marshal from being sued in the
State court, in trespass, for his own tort, in levying it upon the
property of a man against whom the writ did not run, and on
property which was not liable to it. This view was reaffirmed
in Shzrpe v. Doyle, 102 U. S. 686, and was there applied to a
seizure under a provisional warrant in bankruptcy like that in
the present case.
We have limited our decision to the precise questions presented in this case, without attempting to define the cases in
which an assignee in bankruptcy can maintain a suit under
§ 5129 or under § 4979, or to specify what relief by injunction
can be granted to him under the bankruptcy act, in a proper
case.
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the cause
is remanded to that court, with direction to dismiss the
bill.
Sorior v. HuDsoN, Assignee, differs from Leroux's case, only
in the following immaterial respects: The goods seized were in
the hands of Max Schott, in his store at East Saginaw, Saginaw
County, Michigan, and had been transferred to him by the
debtors. The marshal, Matthews, assisted by John E. Wells,
a deputy, seized them on March 29th, 1878. Max Schott, on
the 6th of April, commenced an action of trespass in the
Circuit Court for Saginaw County, Michigan, against Matthews
and Wells, to recover $25,000 damages for the acts of the de-

