HUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

HUNT and Another, Appellant, v. OLIVER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
Argued October 22d, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1883.
.ortgage-Suersedeas.
A mortgaged real estate to B, 0, and D, including the south half of a fractional section. Two years later B assigned his interest in the mortgage to
C and D, and took from A, who was embarrassed, a conveyance of all his
property, includingthe other half of the fractional section. This was done
to aid'A in disposing of his property, and paying his debts. It was found
in the decree below that it was for the joint benefit of B and his co-mortgagees. - The mortgaged property was purchased by C at foreclosure sale.
A brought iuit against B, C, D, and others in possession, to redeem all the
estate conveyed to B. An accounting showed a balance due A. Execution was ordered directing the defendants to surrender the lands. B and C
appealed, giving security for a supersedeas. A applied for a writ of assistance putting him in possession of the north half. The court belowgranted
the writ. On application to this court to stay the writ of assistance: Held,
that the writ of _peraedea should issue.

The facts appear in the opinion of the court.
21r. Henry -. .DuThf , for the appellant Hunt.
_31r. Nathanie Wilson, for the appellee.
MR. CHI F JUSTICE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a motion for a writ of supersedeas to stay the execution of a writ of assistance issued by the circuit court, after an
appeal to this court, to put the appellee in possession of a part
of the property involved in the litigation below. The mateial
facts affecting the motion, as found and determined by the
circuit court, or otherwise shown by the motion papers, are
these :
On the 17th of November, 1866, Oliver, the appellee, executed to Henry S.* Cunningham, Garrett B. Hunt, and Jacob
Eschelman a mortgage on certain lands in Michigan to secure
a debt of $35,000. Included in this mortgage was the S. fr.
I sec. 12, T. 29, N. R.. 8 E., containing 227-6- acres, more or
less, "1with the saw-mill and other improvements thereon." In
VoL. cux-12

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

the summer of 1868, Oliver owned and possessed other lands
encumbered by other mortgages, one to Calvin Haines and
Philip N . Ranney, and others to other parties, and he also
owed other debts to other persons, which were unsecured,
amounting in the aggregate to a large sum. On the 2d of
September, 1868, Cunningham assigned his interest in the
$35,000 mortgage to his co-mortgagees, Hunt and Eschelman,
and then took a conveyance from Oliver of all his property,
real and personal, for the purpose of assisting him in disposing
of it, and realizing any surplus that should remain after his
debts were paid. Among other lands conveyed by Oliver at
this time and for this purpose was frac. sec. 12, T. 29, N. iR. 8
E. The decree finds that Cunningham took this conveyance
" for the joint benefit of himself and his co-mortgagees." After
this conveyance was made, Cunningham, Hunt, Eschelman,
Haines, Ranney, George Robinson, and Henry Robinson,
formed a partnership to carry on lumbering business and to
out the timber upon the property, and manufacture it. Hunt
then proceeded to foreclose the $35,000 mortgage, and purchased
the mortgaged property at the foreclosure sale. After this,
on the 13th of March, 1873, Oliver filed a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Michigan against Cunningham, Hunt, Eschelman, Haines,
Ranney, and the two Robinsons, the object of which was to
redeem the lands which had been conveyed to Cunningham,
and to charge the defendants, as mortgagees in possession, with
the rents and profits of the property. Upon this bill a final
decree was rendered on the 21st of September, 1882, finding
due frcm the defendants to Oliver the sum of $41,488.87, for
which execution was ordered, and directing the defendants to
"surrender and yield up to the complainant possession of all
lands transferred by said complainant to said defendant Cunningham by deeds dated September 3d, 1868," and to make,
execute and deliver to complainant good and sufficient conveyances to transfer all their title and interest in and to the land
described in said deeds, and which should describe and specify
the lands as follows: "The entirety of the following lands:
." From
Entire fract. sec. 12 T. 29, N. R.8E ....

HUNT v. OLIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

this decree Hunt and Eschelman alone appealed, giving security
for a supersedeas. Upon see. 12 is a valuable saw-mill, but the
complainant claims it is located on the north half of the section
and nbt on the south half. After the appeal and supersedeas
were perfected, Oliver applied to the circuit court for a Nhit
of assistance to put him in possession of the north half of this
section, and the writ was granted, on the ground that as Hunt
had title only to the south half of the section, his appeal did
not operate to stay the execution of the decree as to the north
half. It is to stay the execution of this writ that the present
application is made.
We think this motion should be granted. The decree appealed from finds as a fact that although the conveyance of
Oliver was in form to Cunnirgham alone, it was taken by him
for the joint benefit of himself and his co-mortgagees, that is
to say, Hunt and Eschelman, the appellants. Such being the
case, it is a matter of no importance that the legal title to the
north half of section 12 may not have been in either of the
appellants. As Cunningham took title to the whole property
for them as well as himself, whatever in the decree affects that
title affects them as well as him. They have been charged
with the entire amount realized from the whole property, and
it is impossible to reach any other conclusion from the papers
submitted on this motion, than that, in the whole proceeding
below, the appellants were deemed to have been in equity
grantees under the deed to Cunningham jointly with hili, and
that their rights under the appeal are to be governed accordingly. Certainly an appeal with supersedeas by him would on
the face of the papers stay the execution of the writ of assistance now complained of, and if such an appeal would hav6
that effect as to Cunningham, the present appeal ,must as to'i
these appellants.

A oi of . uede

may @ue.

