ARTHUR v. PASTOR.
Statement of Facts.

ARTUR, Collector, v. PASTOR & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YOR.
Argued October 15th, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1888.

Custom8 -Dutie--ool.
The statute imposing duties divides foreignwool into three classes, and enacts,
among other things, that the duty on wool of the first class, which shall be
imported washed, shall be twice the amount of the duty to which it would
be subjected if imported unwashed; and further, that wools of that class
shall pay a specific duty per pound, and an ad valorem duty in addition.
BHeld, that the specific duty by weight is to be calculated on the same number of pounds in each case, and is to be twice the amount for washed wool
that it is for unwashed; and that the ad valorem duty on washed wool is to
be twice the ad valorem duty op the same number of pounds of unwashed
wool.

This action was brought by the defendants in error to recover from the defendant below, now plaintiff in error, money
alleged to have been illegally exacted and paid under protest,
as customs duties upon an importation of wool Upon the facts
set out in a bill of exceptions, and in respect to which there is
no dispute, there was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff
below, upon a charge of the court to that effect, to review which
this writ of error is prosecuted, the error alleged being that,
upon the law of the case, the verdict and judgment should have
been rendered for the plaintiff in error.
The importation, which took place January 3d, 1876, consisted of 3,294 pounds of washed wool of class 1, tariff schedule
L, the dutiable appraised value of which, in its washed condition, was $1,627, or 49.49 cents per pound. Had it been:
imported in an unwashed condition, the dutiable appraised
value thereof would have been $813.50, or 24.69 cents per
pound.
There were three grades or descriptions of wool known to
the trade, rated as to value according to the degree to which
they had been freed from impurities, by processes of cleaning,
known as unwashed, washed, aiid scoured wool; and their cos
and value were determined in a corresponding proportion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

washed wool being worth twice and scoured wool three times
that of unwashe. wool
The same distinction, for the purposes of the law, was made
in the provisions of the tariff act then in force. By the terms
of that act (Rev. Stat., title XXXII., schedule L) foreign wools
weie divided into- three classes; the first clothing wools, the
second combing wools, the third carpet wools and other'similar
wools. It was provided that "the duty upon wool of the first
class, which 1,hall be imported wa1ecd, shall be twice the
amount of the.duty. to which it would be subjected if imported
unwashled; and the duty upon wool of all classes, which shall
be imported scoured, shall be three times the duty to which it
would be subject if imported "unwaed."
It was then provided that th duty to be levied should be as
follows:
"Wools of the first class, the value whereof at the last port or
place whence exported to the United States, excluding charges
an.such port, shall be thirty-two cents or less per pound; ten
cents per pound, and in addition thereto eleven per centum ad
valorem. Wools of the same class, the value whereof at .the last
port or place whence exported to the United States, excluding
charges in such port,, shall exceed thirty-two cents per pound;
twelve cents per pound, and in addition thereto ten per centum
ad'valorem."The collector, in making his assessment upon the importation
in question, exacted duty as follows:
On 3,294 pounds at 20 cts. per pound ............
On $1,627 (its value washed) at 22 per cent.......

$658 80
357 94

Total .................... .......... $1,016 74

'The importers protested that they should be chaxgEd,.as an
ad valorem duty, only $1,78.97, or one-half the amount charged
and collected, being twenty-two per cent. on the reduced value
of the wool, as if unwashed, making a difference of $178.97;
which is the amount in controversy. It was proven on the
trial that the value of that number of pounds of such wool,
~wmah4d, would have been $813.50.

ARTHUR v. PASTOR.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. A8ia tant Attoney-General XMaury for the plaintiff, in
error.
The case turns upon the meaning of the word"c amount" in
the clause of the act which says:
"1The duty upon wool of the first class which shall be impoifed
wcahel, shall be twice the amount of "theduty to which, it would
be subjected if imported unwashed."
The difficulty in adopting the defendant's contention is that
it sets up a changeable and inconstant standard, which Congress could not have intended.
It is submitted that it is much more reasonable to suppose
that Congress used the word " amount;" in the above collocation, as interchangeable with rate, than in its primary sense,
necessitating, as the latter view does, the resort to an implication which looks very much like judicial legislation.

Mr. Edward Hartley and -Yr. Walter H Coleman for the
defendants in error.

YATMrnws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the facts as above recited, he continued:
The construction of the statute and the rule of computation,
adopted by the -collector, proceed upon the supposition that the
rate of duty to be charged and collected upon washed wool is
to be double that charged and collebted upon the same weight
and value of unwashed wool. Hence, because 3,294: pounids of
unwashed wool would be chargeable with a duty of ten cents
per pound, and' eleven per cent. of its appraised value as unwashed wool, it is found that the same weight of washed wool
would be chargeable with twenty cents per pound, and twentytwo per cent. of its appraised value as washed wool
The error in this calculation clearly is in assuming that the
same number of pounds of unwashed wool would be worth as
much as washed wool, a supposition which is inconsistent with
the fact as admitted, and with the evident meaning, of -the
law. The language of' the act of Congress is too plain to
admit of doubt. It declares that the duty upon a given quartMnm JusTio

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court

tity of washed wool shall be twice the amount of duty " to
which it would Ie subjected if imported unwashed." By the
terms of the comparison the weight is supposed to be the same
in both cases-in the case, 'as actually presented, a quantity of
wool weighihg 3,294 pounds. Hence the duty, so far as determined by weight, is calcilated upon the same number of pounds,
being eleven cents a pound for the unwashed wool, and twentytwo cents per pound for the washed wool. But when the ad
valorerm duty is to be determined, the relative values necessarily
determine its amount; and; as 3,294 pounds of unwashed wool
is to be appraised at $813.50, while the same weight of washed
wool would be twice that sum, or $1,621, it follows, that the
duty on the latter is to be double that which the law imposes
upon the former, iamely, twenty-two per cent. of $813.50,
which is equal to $178.97, and not'twenty-two per cent. on
$1,627, equal-to $357.94, as charged by the collector. If the
rule adopted by him should prevail, the amount of the ad
valorem duty collected upon equal weights of unwashed and'of
washed wool, would be four times as great upon the latter as
upon the former, for not only is the rate of duty doubled, but
it is assessed upon double the value of the unwashed wool.
But the statute expressly limits the duty in the case of washed
wool to double the amomit to which it would be subjected if
imported unwashed.
It is admitted in argument that the letter of the law justifies,
if it does not require this conclusion; but it is urged that the
meaning of the statute requires the construction which would
impose rates of duty upon washed wool double those imposed
upon unwashed, calculated upon the weight and value of each
separately considered. And this contention is'ibaintained upon
the argument that the contrary readig of the statute implies
that Congress has made the appraised value of wool in its unwashed state the standard for determining the amount of ad
valorem duty to be collected upon washed wool, which, it is insisted upon the argument, ab inconven ti, is not admissible.
But this is, not by implication merely, but expressly what the
act declares; and, any fancied or real objections to such a
standard cannot affect the obvious meaning of the law. It is

UMITED STATES v. FISHER.
Statement of Facts.

obvious, however, that the natural division of wools into -the
grades of unwashed, washed, and scoured,. carried'into the act
as the ground of difference in the amount of duties to be assessed accordingly, fully explains the intenti6n of Congress to
tax the wool itself uniformly by varying the amount of duty
according to the degree to which a. given quantity has been"
freed, by processes of cleansing from the dirt and foreign matter with which, in its unwashed state, it is usually found.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment is

UNITED STATES v. FISIER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted March 30th, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1888.

Sazary-tatute.
When Congress appropriates a sum "in full compensation" of the salary of a
public officer, the incumbent cannot recover an additional sum in the court
of claims, notwithstanding a prior statute fixes the salary at a largeramount
than the sum so appropriated.
In such case the earlier act is suspended for the time covered by the appropriation.

The appellee, Fisher, held the office of -Chief Justice of the
Territory of Wyoming, from February 14th, 1876, to :November 26th; 1879. Up to and including June 30th, 1877, he was
paid his salary at the rate Of $3,000 per annum. From June
30th, 1877, up to and including November 26th, 1879, he was
paid and received, without protest,- compensation as such chief
justice, at the rate of $2,600 per annum.

The appellee, contqnding that he was entitled to a salary at
the Tate of $3,000 per annum for his whole term of service,
brought this suit in the court of claims to recover the difference
between what his salary at that rate would have been from
June 30th, 1877, up to and including November 26th, 1879, and
the amount actually paid him fon that period.
The majority of the court of claims was of opinion that the

