84

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

binding between the parties in this suit, as an estoppel. There
is nothing in the pleadings which raises the question of such an
estoppel. The lower State court having, in the prior suit,
rendered a judgment for the plaintiff, the Supreme Court of
the State, while giving the interpretation before mentioned of
the rights of Morgan, reversed the judgment for errors in
other respects, and awarded a new trial. Afterwards there
was, in the lower court, a verdict by consent, followed by a
judgment for the plaintiff, for a less sum than the amount of
the :first verdict and judgment. Moreover, the present suit is
one in a court of the United States, brought under the provisions oT an act of Congress, for the infringement of letters
patent. The former suit arose out-of a contract between Morgan and Oliver, Finnie & Co., and was brought to recover
damages for the breach of that contract. Under these circumstances, the question as to the rights of Morgan under the
patent must be regarded as one to be passed upon in this suit
as an original question, as if there had been no former suit.
Giving to the opiniovi of the Supreme Court of Tennessee that
consideration which is due to the force of reasoning in the
views which it announces, we are unable to concur in the construction it gave to the license to Morgan. Accordingly:
Th judgmcent of tke Circuit Court 8 rever8ed, wit direction
to award a new trial.

POITER, Assignee, v. LAZEAR.
IN

=OR To THE SUPREME

COUT OF

THE STATE OF PMMRYL-

V.A.TIA
Submitted October 11th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1883.

Aasignment--akruptcy-Vower.
In 'ennsylvania, as in other States, dower is not barred by an assignment
,the husband's estate under the Banklpt Act-of the United States, and a
sale by the assignee in bankruptcy under order of the court.

-Amicable suit by an assignee of a bankrupt to recover pur-.

PORTER v. LAZEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

chase-money of real estate of the bankrupt sold at public sale;
the object of such suit being to determine whether the right of
the bankrupt's wife to dower passed at the sale.
The case was submitted by the plaintiff in error on the brief
of his attorney, -r.
. T. VaMto.
JusTioE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action by the assignee in bankruptcy of S. 13. W.
Gill to recover the purchase money of land of the bankrupt,
sold by the plaintiff to the defendant.
In the, case stated by the parties the following facts were
agreed: On the 28th of November, 1877, Gill, upon petition
of his creditors, was adjudged a bankrupt by the District
Court of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and the plaintiff was afterwards ,appointed assignee of .his estate, which included two lots of land in
Pittsburgh. On th" 27th of Mffay, 1878, the assignee, pursuant to an order of the district court, and for the purpose of
raising money to pay the bankrupt's debts, sold these lots
by public auction to the defendant for the sum of $465,
subject.to the lien of a certain mortgage for $2,550; but the
order of the court directed, and the advertisement thereof
stated, that all other liens and incumbrances should be discharged by the sale. At the time of the commencement of
the 'proceedings in bankruptcy, the bankrupt ,had a wife, who
is still living, and who claims a right of dower in the land.
The sale having been confirmed absolutely by the district
court, the assignee thereupon executed and tendered a deed
of the land to the defendant, and demanded payment 6f
the purchase money, which was refused, by reason of the
incumbrance of the right of dower. It was agreed that if the
court should be of opinion that the right of dower of the bankrupt's wife was divested by the bankruptcy proceedings and
sale, judgment should be entered for the plaintiff for the 'um
of $465, with interests and costs; otherwise, judgment for the
defendant.
Upon the case stated the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania

MR.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

gave judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiff sued out
this writ of error.
The single question is, whether a wife's right of dower is
barred by an assignment in bankruptcy and a sale by the
assignee in bankruptcy under order of the court. By the law
of England, which is our law in this respect, except so far as
it has been changed by statute, the wife's right of dower is
no part of the estate of the husband, and is not affected by
proceedings in bankruptcy against him. Squire v. Compton,
Yin. Ab. Dower, G. p1. 60; Smith v. Smitk, 5 Yes. 189.
If it is barred in this case, it must be either by force of the
provisions of the recent Bankrupt Act, or by reason of the
nature of the right of dower under the local law of Pennsylvania.
But, under the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, all that passes
to the assignee by the assignment in bankruptcy, or that can
be sold by direction of the court, is property or rights of the
bankrupt, or property conveyed by the banknip in fraud of
creditors, unless indeed a person holding a mortgage or pledge
of, or hen upon, property of the bankrupt elects to release the
same. Rev. Stat. §§5044-5046, 5061-5066, 5075; Stat. 22d
June, 1874, c. 390, § 4; -onadaon v. _FarwelZ, 93 U. S. 631;
.Du.ley v. Easton, 104 U. S. 99, 103.
The law of Pennsylvania as to the liability of the right of
dower to be taken for the debts of the husband is certainly in
some respects peculiar.
An act passed in 1105, "for taking lands in execution for
payment of debts," provided that all lands of a debtor, having
no sufficient personal estate, should be liable to be seized and
sold upon judgment and execution obtained against him; and
that in case of default in payment of any debt secured by mortgage of real estate, the mortgagee might by writ of 8cirefacia8.
obtain execution to be levied by sale of the mortgaged premises.
1 Dall. Laws of Penn. 61-1. Another act passed in the same
year, "for the better settling of intestates' estates," while
recognizing a right of dower in the widow, "which dower she
shall hold as tenants in dower do in England," authorized the
administrator,'in case of insufficiency of the personal estate, to.

PORTER v. LAZEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

sell and convey the lands of the deceased, including the rights
of the widow therein, for the payment of his debts. Ib. Appendix, 43-45.
It was established by judicial decisions in Pennsylvania, upon
the construction and effect of these statutes, before the beginning of the publication of reports, that tje wife's right of dower
could be taken and sold on execution upon a judgment recovered
against the husband, or upon 8cire facias on a mortgage executed for valuable consideration by him alone, or under a
devise by him for the payment of his debts. Howell v. -aycock, cited in 2 Dall. 128, and 4 Dall. 301, note; Graffv. Smith,
1 Dall. 481, 484; Scott v. Crosdale, 2 Dall. 127; . C. 1 Yeates,
15; Mitchell v. Aftitc4ell, 8 Penn. State, 126; Blair County
1Director8 v. Boyer, 43 Penn. State, 146.
The grounds of those decisions have been explained by two
of the most eminent judges of Pennsylvania.
In Jiirk v. -Dean, 2 Binn. 341, 341, Chief Justice Tilghinan
said:
"It may be proper to take notice of deeds of mortgage of the
husband's property. It is understood that by such deeds the
wife may be barred of dower, though she was no party to the
conveyance. But this depends on another principle, in which
the law of Pennsylvania differs from the common law. The
right of creditors prevails against the right of dower. A purchaser under an execution against the husband takes the land
discharged of dower; and the only mode of proceeding on a
mortgage, with us, is to sell the land by an execution. We have
no court in which.the equity of redemption can be foreclosed."
In. ifeifrich v. Oermyer, 15 Penn. State, 113, 115, Chief
Justice Gibson said:
"Land is a chattel for payment of debts, only when the law
has made it a fund for that purpose. It then has undergone a
species of conversion, so far as may be necessary to the purpose
of satisfaction, which extinguishes .every derivative interest in it
which cannot consist with the qualities it has been made to
assume. Thus, a judgment, or a mortgage, binds it and converts
it; and it is seized as personal property on a fieri facias, which

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

commands the sheriff to levy the debt off the defendant's goods
and chattels. We readily comprehend ho* a sale on a judgment,
a mortgage, or an order of the Orphans' Court, passes, the land
freed from dower; but the reason is not so obvious why a sale
under a testamentary power, created in good faith, for the benefit
of creditors, should do so. It is because the law mades a decedent's land a fund for payment of his debts, by giving the creditors a lien on it, which might be enforced by judicial' process,
and would extinguish the widow's dower in it. It would come
to the same thing in the end, and she is consequently not injured
by a process substituted by the husband to produce exactly the
same result."
It thus appears that the right of dower in Pennsylvania does
not differ, in nature or extent, from the right of dower at common law, except so far as the local law has made it a chattel
for the payment of debts of the husband, either by converting
it into personalty, in his lifetime, by virtue of the effect attributed by that law to a judgment recovered against him or a
mortgage executed by him, either of which could only be
enforced in that State by a levy of execution in common form;
or by giving his creditors, after his death, a lien unon the whole
title in the land.
The State court has accordingly constantly held that, with
these exceptions, the right of dower is as much favored in
Pennsylvania as elsewhere, that the old decisions are not to be
extended, and that neither an absolute conveyance by the husband, nor an assignment by him for the benefit of creditors,
whether executed voluntarily or under a requirement of the
insolvent law of the State, impairs the wife's right of dower.
Kennedy v. Nredrow, 1 Dall. 415, 411; Graf v. SmitA, and
Zrk v. Dean, above cited; "illinger v. 1Reidenhauer, 6 S. &
R. 531; Riddleserger v. Mentzer, 'I Watts, 141; -eller v.
Zirchael, 2 Yeates, 300'; _Eerle v. Fisher, 13 Penn. State, 526.;
Hefrich v-.' Obermyer, above cited; Woroeeter v. C0zak, 2
Grant, 84.
In W'oreeqter v. Mazrk, just cited, it was held that the sale of
a bankrupt's real estate by his assignee under the Bankrupt
Act of 19th August, 1841, c. 9, did not divest the widow's right

PORTER v. LAZEAR.
Opinion of the Court.

of dower. It is true that the decision was put upon the ground
that the right of dower was saved by the proviso, inserted in
the second section of that act, that "nothing in this act contained shall be construed to annul, destroy, or impair any lawful rightd of married women, which may be vested by the laws
of the States respectively, and which are not inconsistent with
the provisionsof the secoxid and fifth sections of this act;" and
that the judge delivering the opinion said that, were it not'for
that proviso, he should, have no difficulty in holding that a sale
in pursuance of a decree in bankruptcy would, like a sheriff's sale
by virtue of either a judgment or a mortgage, bar dower. But
the decision is significant as evidence that by.the law of Pennsylvania a right of dower is "a lawful right, valid by the law
of the State," and as treating the question whether it was
divested by proceedings in bankruptcy as depending upon the
true construction of the Bankrupt Act. Upon this question of
construction, we axe not bound by the opinion of the State
court, and have no hesitation in disapproving the dictum, and
in holding that the proviso relied on was not in the' nature of
an exception to or restriction upon the operative words of the
act, but was a mere declaration, inserted for greater caution, of
the construction which the act must have received without any
such proviso, and that the omission of the proviso in the recent
Bankrupt Act does not enlarge the effect of the assignment or
of the sale in bankruptcy, so as to inlude lawful rights which
belong not to the bankrupt but to his wife.
The result is, that, so far as this case depends upon the construction of the Bankrupt Act of the United States, this court
is of opinion that there is nothing in that act, or in the proceedings under it, to bar the wife's right of dower in lands of
which her husband was seized during the coverture; and that,
so far as it depends upon the law of Pennsylvania, the decision
of the Supreme Court of that State in this case, reported in 87
Penn. State, 513, is in accord with all the previous adjudications of that court, and is strong, if not conclusive, evidence
against the plaintiff'in error.
It may be added that this decision is in conformity with one
made twelve years ago by Judge Cadwalader in the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Appellant.

Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. In re Angier, 10 Amer. Law Reg. (N. S.) 190; S. C.
-4-Bankr. Reg. 619.
eJudgmme aflned.

LA ER v. DEiNETT & Another.
APPEAL

FROM THE

CIR6UIT

COURT OF

THE

UNITED STATES FOR,

THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Argned October 9th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1883.

Asignment-Lcese --

ista-ce-Patent.

After many conversations, and after a draft agreement had been made, A, in
1870, in writing, granted to B a license to make, use, and sell, and vend to
others to sell, an invention in defined districts. In 1873 B discovered that
the agreement gave him no exclusive rights, which it was the purpose of
both parties to have done. He notified A, and A at once offered to grant
such right for the original consideration. In November, 1873, B refused to
accept a new agreement, and took steps to terminate the existing" one. A
thereupon sued B for royalties claimed to be earned under it. B filed a bill
in equity, claiming that there was a mistake in the agreement, and praying
to have!it cancelled and A restrained from prosecuting an action under it:
Held, That there was no mistake between the parties as to the agreement
madd; that the minds of the parties met, and an agreement was made,
although the legal effect of it was different from what was intended ; that
A was not in.default ; and there was no ground for the relief prayed for.

Suit in equity to have an agreement respecting the transfer
of an interest under a patent set aside and cancelled, as made
under a mistake, and all suits at. law thereon stayed and enjoined. The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
3fr. JoAn F. Storft for the appellant.
1. The contract failed to express the intent of the parties.
Where a mistake occurs as to the subject matter of the contract, there is no assent, and of course no contract. I Story on
Contracts, see. 538; 2 Chitty on Contracts (Am. ed.), 1089-90.
Where there is a mutual mistake as to a fact forming the basis

