WI-CHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. FUI4GE. 651
Syllabus.
that court, in special term, made a decree setting aside an
assignment made to two of the defendants, directing the manner in which receivers in the suit should distribute a fund in
their hands, directing the clerk to pay to the plaintiffs the
whole of a fund in the registry of the court, directing the defendant Emery to pay to the plaintiffs $1,232.37, with interest
from July 14th, 1879, adjudging Emery to be indebted to the
plaintiffs in the further sum of $14,818.98, with interest from
July 20th, 1877, and the defendant Sailer to be liable to them
for the same amount, and awarding execution as at law, therefor, against them or either of them. From that decree Emery
appealed to that court in geiieral term, in his own behalf, Sailer
declining, in open court, to appeal. "The court in general term
made a decree reversing the decree in special term so far as it
charged Emery, and dismissing the bill as to him. From that
decree the plaintiffs have appealed to this court.
It is not necessary to consider the question whether the bill,
if demurred to, or if the facts alleged in it were sustained by
the proofs, would lie, as setting forth a case for the cognizance
of a court in equity, because we are of opinion that the proofs
do not establish the allegations of the bill, so far as they affect
Emery, in respect to any relief prayed ag ,inst him in the bill,
or any relief granted against him by the court in special term,
and that no part of the relief contended for in the assignments
of error made by the appellants is warranted by the proofs.

The decree of the c~urt in~genercd te~rm i8 ajrm .

WIINCHESTER

& PARTRIDGE
COMPANY

MANUFACTURING

v. FUiQE.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH TERRITORY.
Submitted Deceffiber 6th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Contract.
For the purpose of settling a debt, the debtor gave to the creditor orders for

25 wagons, and the creditor gave to the debtor a written receipt, which he

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
accepted, stating that the wagons were to be received in payment of the
claim, provided they were delivered to the creditor in good condition and
merchantable order, and that it was understood and agreed that if the
wagons were so delivered in good condition they were to be sold for tho
highest prices that could be obtained for them, and the surplus, after paying the debt and cost of selling, should be refunded to the debtor; 21 of
the wagons were'delivered, but none of them were in good condition and
merchantable order ; the creditor sold 19 of them and made ineffectual
efforts to sell the other 2, and, after crediting the net proceeds of sale, sued
the debtor to recover the balance of the debt: Held, That the receiving the
21 wagons and proceeding to sell them was an acceptance of them pro tanto
in payment of the claim ; that the contract for the payment in wagons was
unfulfilled as to the 4 wagons not delivered ; and that the price for which
the 19 wagons were sold, and the selling value of the 2 not sold, had no
bearing on the case, unless there was a surplus of the proceeds of sale to
be refunded to the debtor, under the contract.

This was an appeal from the Supreme Court of Utah Territory, in a suit brought in the First Judicial District Court of
that Territor7 , in March, 1882, by the appellant, a Wisconsin corporation, against the appellee, to recover the sum of
$1,444.90 and interest from the filing of the complaint. The
complaint contained two counts. The first set forth that
appellee owed the appellant $2,832.40, for a balance of an
account; that, for the purpose of settling such indebtedness,
the appellee gave to the appellant's agents, on the 28th of October, 1880, six orders on six different parties in Utah Territory,
for the delivery to such agents of wagons, 25 in number, the
orders being severally for 1, 3, 2, 5, 9 and 5 wagons; that, at
the same time, said agents executed and delivered to the appellee a receipt, which he accepted, as follows:
"Received from W. W. Funge orders on the respective parties named in the annexed list, for wagons therein mentioned,
which wagons are to be receiyed in payment of the claim of
Vinchester & Partridge Manufacturing Company against said
Funge for twenty-eight hundred and thirty-two dollars and
forty cents : Provided the said wagons are delivered to said
Winchester & Partridge Manufacturing Company, or their
agents, W. W. Burton & Co., in good condition and merchantable order, at the respective places named in said orders, on presentation thereof ; and it isunderstood and agreed that if said

WINCHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. FUNGE. 653
Opinion of the Court.
wagons are so delivered in good condition and promptly, as afore-said, they are to be sold to the best advantage and for the highest
prices that can be obtained for them, and any surplus of the proceeds thereof that may remain after paying said debt of $2,832.40,
and the actual and necessary cost of selling the same, is to be
refunded to said Funge, unless prior to that time he shall have
been paid two hundred dollars ($200), which he agrees, at their
option, to take in lieu 6f said surplus, and in full settlement of his
account with said company-"
That four of the wagons covered by the order for 9 wagons
were not delivered; that 21 of the wagons were delivered, but
were none of them in good condition and merchantable order;
and that the appellant had sold 19 of them, for $1,807.43 net,
and had made ineffectual efforts to sell the other 2. The
second count set forth an indebtedness of the appellee to.the
appellant of $2,832.40, for a balance of an account, in August,
1880, and a credit thereon of the net proceeds of certain wagons, leaving due $1,444.90, with interest from the filing of the
complaint.
The appellee filed a demurrer, and alldged thereins-a ground
of demurrer to the complaint, and to each count separately,
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause bf
action. The district court sustained the demurrer, and, the
appellant electing to stand by its complaint, judgment was
entered in favor of the appellee. The supreme court affirmed
the judgment, and appeal was taken.
31>. F. S. 1;char(ds,and 3.f. Pi.
Yilliams for appellant.
.3'. James I.
limball, 2b,. Abbot .R.Zeywood, andI X3r.
Enos D. lloge for appellee.
Mn. JusTIoE BLATCHTORD delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that, on the terms of the receipt which
expressed the contract between the parties, the appellant br its
agents were required to determine, on receiving the wagons,
whether they were in good condition and merchantable order,
and were at liberty to reject them if not meeting those conditions ; that the receiving the 21 and proceeding to sell them

