OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
Syllabus.

Under Rule 10, it is the duty of the clerk to have the record
printed, and a fee has been fixed for preparing the record for
the printer, indexing the same, and supervising the printing.
Ordinarily this fee is to be paid in the first instance by the
party who prosecutes the cause. If he fails to make the payment when demanded in time to enable the clerk to cause the
printing to be done in due course, he fails in the orderly prose1,
cution of his suit, and may be dealt with accordingly. Consequently if, through the fault of a plaintiff in error or appellant, printed copies of the record are not furnished to the justices or the parties when required in the due prosecution of the
cause, the writ on appeal will be dismissed for want of prosecution, unless sufficient cause be shown to the contrary.
In the present case the record has been printed, but the clerk
has not furnished the necessary copies to the justices because
his fee for preparing the record for the printer and other services, has not been paid by the appellant, although demanded.
As this is the first time the questioA has arisen, and the practice has not heretofore been authoritatively announced, it is
ordered that, unless the appellant pay to the clerk within
twenty days from the entry hereof what is due him for this
fee, the appeal be disimissed for want of prosecution. If the
payment is made, the clerk shall at once notify the opposite
party, and the cause may thereafter be brought on for hearing
under paragraph T of Rule 26, as a case that has been passed
under circumstances which do not place it at the foot of the
docket.

OLIVER & Others v. RUMFAORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
IN

ERROR TO THE cIRCtrr COURT OF-THE UNITED SMTES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF TENINESEE.
Argued October 10th and 11th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1888.

Ltccse---Paen--Survtiorsiip.
The reissued letters patent No. 2,979, granted to the Rumford Chemical
Works, June 9th, 1868, for an "improvement in pulverulent acid for use

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
in. the preparation of soda powders, farinaceous food, and for other purposes," claimed, in claim 1, "as a new manufacture, the above-described
pulverulent phosphoric acid," and, in claim 2, tle manufactura of such
acid, and, in claim 8, the mixing with flour of such acid and an alkaline
carbonate, so as to make the compound self-raising, on the application of
moisture or heat, or both. There was transferred to M., by th9 Rumford
Chemical Works, the -exclusive right to make, sell, and use, in a specified
tekritory, for five years, self-raising flor by the use of the acid, he agreeing
to make the flour, and to use his skill to introduce it, and to purchase all
the acid from the grantor. M. died in less than three months from the
date of the grant : Held, under the provisions of f§ 11 and 14 of the act
of July 4th, 1836,- 5 Stat. 121, 123, that the right acquired by M.
was only that of a licensee ; that the instrument of license did not carry
such right to any one but him personall'y ; and -that such right did not, on
his death, pass to his administrator, so as to authorize a suit at law, founded
on the license, to be brought in the name of the grantor, for the use of the
administrator, to recover damages for an infringement of the patent committed after the death of M., by the manufacture and sale of self-raising
flour, by the use of such acid, in said territory.

Action on the case for infringement of patent. 'The facts
were stated by the court in the following language:
On the 9th of June, 1868, reissued letters patent No. 2,979
were granted to the Rumford Chemical Works, a corporation
of Rhode Island, for an "improvement in pulverulent acid for
use in the preparation of soda powders, farinaceous food, and
for other purposes." The original patent, No. 14,722, was
granted to Eben Norton Horsford, April 22d, 1865, for fourteen
years, for an "improvement in preparing phosphoric acid as a
substitute for other solid acids," and was reissued to Lhe Rumford Chemical Works, as No. 2,597, May '7tth, 1867, for an
"improvement in the manufacture of phosphoric acid and
phosphates for use in the preparation of food and for other
purposes."
The specification of reissue No. 2,979 sets forth the mode of
preparing the acid, which is a dry pulverulent acid, described
as having the capacity of being intimately mixed with dry
alkaline carbonates, or 9ther sensitive chemical compounds,
without decomposing them or entering into combination with
them, except upon the addition of moisture or the application
of artificial heat. It says:
"This requires that the phosphoric acid, or acid phosphates, be

OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
-

Statement of Facts.

mixed with some neutral agent, as flour or starch, gypsum, etc.,
so that action of the acid shall be prevented while dry, and shall,
when moisture or heat is applied, be prompt, thorough, and
equally diffused. .
.
It may, among other uses, be mixed*
with dry alkaline carbonates, carbonate of potassa, or carbonate
of soda, and remain in this state without evolution of carbonic
acid until moistened or heated, thus making it a substitute for
cream tartar and tartaric acid in the preparation of yeast powder
or baking powder. . . . It
. . " is suited to be employed
as the acid ingredient in the preparation of self-raising farinaceous
food. In order to make an artilepossessing these qualities, and
suited to this office, it is necessary that a owder should be made
which can be not only evenly comminuted and diluted, but one
which shall have so little affinity for the moisture of the atmosphere that it may be mixed with flour and bicarbonate of soda in
the practical preparation of self-raising flour."
The claims of reissue No. 2,979 are four in number, as follows:
"11. I claim, as a new manufacture, the above-described pulverulent phosphoric acid. 2. I claim the manufacture of the
above-described pulverulent 'phosphoric acid, so that it may be
applied in the manner and for the purposes above described.
3. I claim the mixing, in the preparation of farinaceous food,
with flour, of a powder or powders, such as described, consisting
of ingredients of -which phosphoric acid, or acid phosphates, and
alkaline carbonates, are the active agents for' the purpose of
liberating carbonic acid, as described, when subjected to moisture
or heat, or both. 4. The use of phosphoric acid or acid phosphates, when employed with alkaline carbonates, as a substitute
for ferment or leaven in the preparation of farinaceous food."
On the 1st of February, 1869, the following instrument in
writing was executed and delivered by the Rumford Chemical
Works to one Allen F. Morgan:
"To all people to whom these presents shall come, the Rumford Chemical Works, a corporation transacting business in East
Providence, in the State of Rhode Island, sefids greeting: Know
ye'that the said corporation, in consideration of the agreement,
of even date herewith, entered into between it and Allen F. Mor-

OCTQBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.
gan, of Memphis, in the county of Shelby and State of Tennessee,
does hereby sell, assign and transfer unto the said Allen F. Morgan the right to use, within the territory described in said agreement, Rorsford's patent cream of tartar substitute, for the
purpose of manufacturing within said territbry self-rlising cereal
flours, with the right to use and sell the flours so manufaciured;
to have and hold and exercise such rights within the limits aforesaid, for and during the time and under and subject to the conditions and limitations named and specified in the agreement
aforesaid, of even date herewith, to which reference is hereby
made as a part hereof."
On the same -day Morgan executed and delivered to the
Rumford Chemical Works the following instrument in writing:
"To all men to whom these presents shall come :

Know ye,

that because the Rumford Chemical Works, a corporation located
at and doing business in the town of East Providence, in the
State of Rhode Island, has licensed and granted unto Allen F.
Morgan, of the city of Memphis, county of Shelby and State of
Tennessee, the exclusive right to manufacture, sell and use during the time of five yqars from the date hereof, the article known
as self-raising flour, from cereals, by the use of Horsford's patent
pulverulent phosphoric acid; in the following described territory,
to wit: Beginning at the point where the northern boundary of
the State' of Tennessee touches the Mississippi River; thence
southerly along the said river to and including Vicksburg;
thence easterly along the line of the Mississippi Southern R. R.
to Jackson ; thence northerly along the line of the Mississippi
Central R. R. to Granada; thence northeasterly to the junctiori
of the eastern boundary line of Alabama with the southern
'boundary line of Tennessee ; thence along the eastern boundary
line of Middle Tennessee (so called) to the northern boundary
line of Tennessee, and westerly along said boundary line to the
point of beginning, by an instrument in writing bearing even
date herewith, which is made a part of this agreement,, and
because of other good and sufficient reasons moving him thereto,
that he has agreed, and by these presents does covenant and,
agree, to and with the aforesaid Rumford Chemical Works, that
he will immediately commence the manufacture of self-raising
flour in accordance with the written instructions furnished by

OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
Statement of Facts.
the said Rumford Chemical Works, as to proportions and quality
of flour, and that he will use all his business tact and skill, and
all other means necessary to introduce and sell the same, and to
make the sale thereof as large as in any way possible in the territory aforesaid, during the continuance of the license aforesaid,
and no longer, and to sell the said self-raising- flour nowhere .but
in the territory specified, except upon the written consent of the
said Rumford Chemical Works. And I further agree to accept
in the aforesaid license such rights as are covered by the patents
granted to Eben N. Horsford, and by him assigned to the said
Rumford Chemical Works, and to maintain them at my own cost
and expense in suits at law, whenever it shall be in my judgment
necessary so to do, and to avail myself of such advice, counsel
and assistance as the said Rumford Chemical Works may elect
to give in said suits; and to purchase all of the acid used in
making our said self-raising flour of the Rumford Chemical
Works or of their agents, as directed ; and that in case of my failure to perform the covenants and agreements hereby entered
into, it shall be lawful for the said Rumford Chemical Works to
annul and revoke their said license to me, and to terminate this
The use of said phosphoric acid by families for
agreement.
domestic purposes shall not be construed as a violation of this
agreement."
On the 12th of April, 1870, the patent was duly extended
for seven years from April 22d, 1870. On the 21st of May,
1870, the extended term was assigned by Horsford to the RlumMorgan died on the 19th of April,
ford Chemical Works.
1869.
In July, 1869, his widow, Kate G. Morgan, was appointed administratrix of his estate. She afterwards intermar-

ried with J. N. Payne.

A suit at law was brought, in 1875, in

the name of the Rumford Chemical Works, for the use of J. N.
Payne and his wife, Kate G. Payne, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Western District of Tennessee,

against J. N. Oliver and others, partners, constituting the firm
of Oliver, Finnie & Co., to recover damages for the infringe-

ment by the defendants, for the period from April 1st, 1870, to
February 1st, 1874, of the rights of the said Kate G. Payne
and her husband, under said patent, by making and selling

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

self-raising flour by the use of Horsford's patent pulverulent
phosphoric acid in the territory before named. The theory of
the suit was that the right of Morgan became vested in his administratrix, as a personal asset, and continued under the
extension, and that the suit brought would lie for infringements
of such right committed prior to the expiration of the five
years from February 1st, 1869. The suit was tried by a jury,
and resulted in a verdict for the plaintiffs for $3,538.97 OIamages, and a judgment in their favor for that amount, with costs.
To review that judgment this writ of error is brought.
-. r. Estes and 21r. EIZet for the plaintiffs in error.
.A-&. George Gantt and .21r.I-8iam G. Harrisfor the def endants in error.
Several points were argued. The following is a summary of
the argument of the defendants' counsel on the point on which
the case turned in the opinion:
This is an assignment or grant of an exclusive right in and
under the patent throughout a specified part of the United
States. A patent may embrace more than one invention.
Curtis on Patents, § 110. This patent embraces four. Bumford Chemical Works v. Lauer, 10 Blatcbford, 122. Either of
these could be assigned separately. Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall.
at p. 456; -Dorsey Rake Co. v. Bradley, 12 Blatchford, 202.
There can be a grant of a limited number of machines. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 Itow. at p. 686; Was1 urn v. Gould, 3
Story, 122. Morgan had the exclusive right as to the third and
fourth claims. Nothing was left in the Rumford Works except
a reservation which was a license back. Littlefield v. Perry,
21 Wall. 205, and cases cited above.
This is an exclusive license giving the plaintiff exclusive
right in the designated territory, which he can enforce. Iitlell
v. Hanly, 16 Wall. 544.
Morgan's license was not a personal privilege which terminated at his death. If the parties in this case had intended to
limit this grant to Morgan's lifetime it would have been easy
for them to have said so. Instead of doing that, they give it

OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

for a fixed time, and the only condition upon which it can be
terminated before the end of that time is the failure of the
grantee to perform his agreements under the contract. Certainly his personal representatives can perform them in his
shoes. All the intendments and presumptions of law are
against defeating the deceased's rights under his contracts. 1
Parsons on Contracts, 111.
M. JUsTics BLATcH-oRU delivered the opinion of the court.
After reciting the facts in the above language, he continued.
Various questions are presented by the record and have been
discussed in argument, but there is one which goes to the
foundation of the suit, and upon which our views are such as
to make it unnecessary to consider any other. The court
charged the jury that the interest of Morgan in the patent did
not terminate at his death, but passed to his administratrix.
•The defendants excepted to this charge. The evidence was
that Morgan died on the 19th of April, 1869, and the defendants asked the court to instruct .the jury that the privilege
conferred on Morgan by the instrument of February 1st, 1869,
from the Rumford Chemical Works to him, terminated at his
death, and did not pass to his administratrix, and that they
should find for the defendants, if they believed that Morgan
died on the 19th of April, 1869. The court refused to give
such instruction, and the defendants excepted.
It is apparent that what was granted to Morgan was only
the exclusive right to use, within the territory specified, the
patented acid in making self-raising flour, and to use and sell
in said territory the flour so made. The acid used in making
the self-raising flour was all of it to be purchased from the
Rumford Chemical Works, or its agents. No right was
granted to malce the acid, or to use it or sell it otherwise than
as an ingredient in the self-raising flour. The effect of the
grant made by the two instruments of February 1st, 1869, is
subject to the provisions of § 11 of the act of July 4th, 1836,
5 Stat. 121, which was the statute in force at the time, and provided as follows:
"Every patent shall be assignable at law, either as to the
VTOL.
cIx-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

whole interest or any undivided part thereof, by any instrument
in writing; which assignment, and also every grant and conveyance of the exclusive right under any patent, to make and use,
and to grant to others to make and use, the thing patented within
and throughout any specified part or portion of .the United
States, shall be recorded in the Patent Office within three months
from the execution thereof."
By g 14 of the same act it was provided that damages for
making, using or selling the thing whereof the exclusive right
is secured by a patent:
"May be recovered by action on the case, in any court of competent jurisdiction, to be brought in the name or names of the
person or persons interested, whether as patentees, assignees or
as grantees of the exclusive right within and throughout a specified part of the UJnited States."
Morgan was not an assignee of the entire right secured by
the patent, nor of any undivided part of such entire right, nor
of the exclusive interest in such entire right for the territory
.specified. He did not acquire the whole of the exclusive right
or legal estate vested in the Rumford Chemical Works by the
patent for the said territory, leaving no interest in his grantor
for that territory, as to anything granted by the patent. It is
well settled that a transfer of a right such as Morgan acquired
is not an assignment, nor such a grant of exclusive right as the
statute speaks of, but is a mere license. Curtis on Patents, 3d
ed. § 179; Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 47, 494. This being so,
the instrument of license is not one which will carry the right
conferred to any one but the licensee personally, unless there
are express words to show an intent to extend the right to an
executor, administrator or assignee, voluntary or involuntary.
In Tpoy Iron and .Yail Factoryv. Coring,14 How. 193,
216, this court said:
"A mere license to a party, without having his assigns or
equivalent words to them, showing that it was meant to be
assignable, is only the grant of a personal power to the licensee,
and is not transferable by him to another."

OLIVER v. RUMFORD CHEMICAL WORKS.
Opinion of the Court.

In the present case there are no words of assignability in
either instrument. The right is granted to Morgan alone, to
him personally, with an agreement by him that he will enter
on the manufacture of the self-raising flour, and that he will
use all ig business tact and skill to introduce and sell the flour.
It is apparent that licenses of this character must have been
granted to such individuals as the grantor choge to select because of their personal ability or qualifications to make or furnish a market for the self-raising flour, and thus for the acid,
all of which -was to be purchased from the grantor. The
license was made revocable by the grantor on the failure of
Morgan to perform his covenants and agreements.
We have not overlooked the fact that the privilege granted
to Morgan was to continue for five years. This means no
more than that he was to have it for five years, if he should
live so long, and if the patent should not have expired. :But it
cannot have the effect to impart assignability to the privilege,
or to prolong its duration beyond that of his life.
Respect for the Supreme Court of Tennessee induces us to
say that we have carefully examined the opinion of that court
in Oliver v. .forgan, 10 Heiskell, 322. That was a suit
brought by the widow and administratrix of Morgan against
Oliver, Finnie & Co., in a court of the State, to recover compensation under' an agreement made between him and them
February 15th, 1869, and which was to continue till April 1st,
1870, whereby he was to prepare self-raising flour-for them
under the license to him from the Rumford Chemical Works,
and they were to pay him so much a barrel. In that suit it
was held that Mrs. Morgan could recover not only for the time
pri6r to Morgan's death, but for the subsequent time, and that
the license to Morgan vested in him an interest which passed.
at his death, to his personal representative. The proceedings
in that suit are made a part of the record on this writ of error.
But the suit in the circuit court was tried wholly on fhe view
that the question as to the construction of the instruments of
February 1st, 1869, was an open one, and *as a question of
general law, and not one as to a rule of property, and that there
was nothing in the former suit which, as ree judicta, could be

84

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

binding between the parties in this suit, as an estoppel. There
is nothing in the pleadings which raises the question of such an
estoppel. The lower State court having, in the prior suit,
rendered a judgment for the plaintiff, the Supreme Court of
the State, while giving the interpretation before mentioned of
the rights of Morgan, reversed the judgment for errors in
other respects, and awarded a new trial. Afterwards there
was, in the lower court, a verdict by consent, followed by a
judgment for the plaintiff, for a less sum than the amount of
the :first verdict and judgment. Moreover, the present suit is
one in a court of the United States, brought under the provisions oT an act of Congress, for the infringement of letters
patent. The former suit arose out-of a contract between Morgan and Oliver, Finnie & Co., and was brought to recover
damages for the breach of that contract. Under these circumstances, the question as to the rights of Morgan under the
patent must be regarded as one to be passed upon in this suit
as an original question, as if there had been no former suit.
Giving to the opiniovi of the Supreme Court of Tennessee that
consideration which is due to the force of reasoning in the
views which it announces, we are unable to concur in the construction it gave to the license to Morgan. Accordingly:
Th judgmcent of tke Circuit Court 8 rever8ed, wit direction
to award a new trial.

POITER, Assignee, v. LAZEAR.
IN

=OR To THE SUPREME

COUT OF

THE STATE OF PMMRYL-

V.A.TIA
Submitted October 11th, 1883.-Decided October 29th, 1883.

Aasignment--akruptcy-Vower.
In 'ennsylvania, as in other States, dower is not barred by an assignment
,the husband's estate under the Banklpt Act-of the United States, and a
sale by the assignee in bankruptcy under order of the court.

-Amicable suit by an assignee of a bankrupt to recover pur-.

