RETZER v. WOOD.
Statement of Facts.

ing out of the operations of the defendants during the pendency of the suit. The case is altogether different from suits by
patentees to establish their patents and recover for the infringement. There th money recovery is part of the subjectmatter of the suit. Here it is only an incident to what is sued
for.
Th7e otion to dimiss i8 denied.

RETZER v. WOOD, Collector.

IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK..
Submitted November Ist, 1883--Decided November 12th,'188.

Col elor-ExpresBwuainess-Intlermc2 Ievenue-Limitaion---Pleading.
The idea of regularity, as to route or time, or both, is involved in the words
"express business," under ยง 104 of the act of June 30th, 1864, c. 173, 13
Stat. 276, and those words do not cover what is done bya person who carries
goods solely on call and at special request, and does not run regular trips
or over regular routes.

In the absence of a statutory rule to the contrary, the defence of a statute of
limitations, which is not raised either in pleading, or on the trial, or before
judgment, cannot be availed of.
In a suit to recover back internal revenue taxes, tried by the circuit court,
without a jury, the court having found the facts, and held that the
taxes were illegally exacted, but that the suit was barred by a statute of
limitation, rendered a judgment for the defendant. On a writ of error
by the plaintiff, the record not showing that the question as to the statute of limitations was raised by -the pleadings, or on the trial or before
judgment, and the conclusion of law as to the illegality of the taxes
being upheld, this court reversed the judgment, and directed a judgment
for the plaintiff to be entered below.

This suit was commenced in a court of the State of New
York, and was removed by the defendant into the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New York by
a writ of certiorari. ' The defendant was a collector of internal
revenue, and exacted and collected from the plaintiff at various
times in the years 1866, 1867 and 1868 sums of money amount-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

ing in all to $61.30, as a tax of 3 per centum on the gross
amounts of the plaintiff's receipts from his business, under the
provisions of ยง 194 of the act ofJune 30th, 1864, c. 173, 13 Stat.
276, which enacted, "that any person, firm, company, or colporation carrying on or doing an express business, shall be
subject to and pay a duty of three per centum on the gross
amount of all the receipts of such express business.." The suit
was cdmmenced June '2d, 1874. The plea was the general
issue. The statute of limitations was not pleaded. A jury
having been waived by a written stipulation of the parties, the
action was tried before, the court without a jury. The court
found the fact of the dates and amounts of the exactions, and
these further facts: The plaintiff's business was the carrying of
goods between New York and Brooklyn, and from one place
in the city of Brooklyn to another place in the same city. He
did not run regular trips, nor over regular routes or ferries, but
where ordered. He had a place in Brooklyn where he received
orders on a glate from persons who wished articles sent from
there to New York, and from one pldce in Brooklyn to another
place in Brooklyn. The goods were carried in wagons. They
were of a miscellaneous character, such as boxes of dry goods,
barrels of sugar, rolls of sole leather, truns, and general
merchandise. His business was done solely upon call, and at
special request, and, as requested, he sent to any place in either
of said cities and took baggage or freight to 'any place in either
of said cities. On the 28th of May, 1873, he presented to the
commissioner of internal revenue a claim, supported by his
own oath, for the refunding *to him of the moneys so exacted
as taxes. No decision was ever made on the claim. The court
found, as conclusions of lawv, (1) that the tax was illegally exacted; (2) that the action was barred by ยง44 of the act of June
6th, 1872, c. 315, 17 Stat. 257. A judgment was rendered for
the defendant. To reverse that judgment the plaintiff brought
this writ of error.
There is inthe record a bill of exceptions, which shows that,,
after the plaintiff had given evidence to establish the facts so
found, the defendant offering no testimony, the plaintiff requested the court to render judgment for the plaintiff, but the

RETZER v. WOOD.
Opinion of the Court.

court refused, and the plaintiff excepted, and the court directed
a judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiff excepted.
26%. William Stank/ and Xr. Edwin B. Smith for plaintiff.
.Mr. Bolicitor-GenealPadlip8 for the defendant.
M

JusTicV BiLATHoim delivered the opinion of the court.

After reciting the facts as stated above, he said:
We are of opinion that the plaintiff was not liable to this
tax, because he did not carry on or do, an "express business,"
within the meaning of the statute. Alth6ugh he carried goods
between New York and Brooklyn, and from one place to another in either city, he did so solely on call and at special request. He did not run regular trips or over regular routes or
ferries. He was no more than a drayman or truckman doing
a job when ordered. The fact that he had a place in Brooklyn
where orders could be left on a slate made no difference. The
words "express business," in the statute, must hfave the meaning given them in the common acceptation. An "express
business" involves the idea of regularity, as to route or time, or
both. Such is the definition in the lexicons. Whether, if the
plaintiff had held out to the world, at any place of business,
that he was carrying on an "express" or was doing an "express
business," or had so designated himself by inscription on his
vehicle or vehicles, that would have made any difference, it is
not necessary to inquire, because no such thing was shown.
As to the defence of the statute of limitations, it was not
pleaded, nor brought to tle attention of the court, as a defence
at the trial. It was not within the issue 'raised by the plea of.
the general issue, which was the only issue to which the stipula-.
tion for a trial by the court extended. It is well settled, that,
in the absence of a contrary rule established by statute, a defendant who desires to avail himself of a statute of limitations
as a defence, must raise the question either in pleading, or on
the trial, or before judgment. Storm v. United States, 94 U. S.
76, 81; Upton v. XcLaughlin, 105 U. S. 640. Such was always the law in New York, and no contrary rule was in force
in New York, by statute, at any time after this suit was

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

brought. When the -testimony at the trial closed, and the
plaintiff asked for a judgment in his favor, he was entitled to
it. It is proper that the circuit court should be directed to
enter such a judgment. The conclusion of law, by the circuit
court, that the tax was illegally exacted, being a correct conclusion, and its conclusion that the suit was barred by limitation being an incorrect conclusion, it follows that the plaintiff
was entitled to judgment on the facts found. The special findings of fact were equivalent to a special verdict, and the
question thereon was whether they required a judgment for
the plaintiff or the defendant. This was a matter of law, the
ruling on which can be reviewed by this court. Aorris v.
Jackson, 9 Wall. 125.
The defendant in error asks that, if the judgment be reversed,
the case be remanded, so that the statute of limitations may be
pleaded. Without passing on the question as to whether the
statute invoked would furnish a defence in this case, we ane of
opinion that no ground exists for the course suggested. The
record shows that the defendant's attorney had 'notice, by the
declaration, that the plaintiff's claim accrued before a date more
than eight years prior to the filing of the plea. Under such
circumstances it would not be a fair exercise of discretion not
to hold the defendant to his legal status.

The judgment is reversed and the cahe is remanded to the circuit
court, with directions to enter a judgment for the plaintfi
.for $61.30, with interest accordingto the low of the State,o
-ew York.

