OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
claimed in the .original patent, No. 115,565. No excuse is
given for the delay in applying for the reissue, nor is any actual
inadvertence, accident, or mistake shown. The omission to
claim sub-combinations in the combinations claimed, the existence of such sub-combinations being apparent on the face of
the original patent, was, in law, on the facts in this case, such
a dedication of them, if new, to the public, that a reissue, to
cover such sub-combinations, in revocation of such dedication,
cannot be availed of to the prejudice of rights acquired by the
public to what is shown in the Scharf and Frazier patents,
issued before the reissue was applied for. The reissued patent
must, for these reasons, be held to be invalid, as to claims 1
and 3.
The circuit court made an interlocutory decree declaring the
validity of the reissue and its infringement and awarding a
perpetual injunction and an account of profits and damages.
By a final decree, a sum of money was awarded as damages.
From that decree the defendant has appealed. The result of
our consideration is, that
The decree must be 'eversed, and the case be remanded to the
(Y)'rcuit court, with direction to dismiss the bill.

JOHN JOSEPH ALBRIGHT & Others v. EMERY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued December 12th and 13th, 1883.-Decided January7th, 1884.

A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in general term,
affirmed, on the facts.

.rfr. A. S. Worthington for appellants.
.Xr. 7ohhn . Ross and 21r. S. S.'.fienkle for appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
In a suit in equity brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, by the firm of Langdon, Albright & Company, against Samuel Emery, Senior, and five other persons,
MR. JUSTICE BLATcHFOD

WI-CHESTER & PARTRIDGE MFG. CO. v. FUI4GE. 651
Syllabus.
that court, in special term, made a decree setting aside an
assignment made to two of the defendants, directing the manner in which receivers in the suit should distribute a fund in
their hands, directing the clerk to pay to the plaintiffs the
whole of a fund in the registry of the court, directing the defendant Emery to pay to the plaintiffs $1,232.37, with interest
from July 14th, 1879, adjudging Emery to be indebted to the
plaintiffs in the further sum of $14,818.98, with interest from
July 20th, 1877, and the defendant Sailer to be liable to them
for the same amount, and awarding execution as at law, therefor, against them or either of them. From that decree Emery
appealed to that court in geiieral term, in his own behalf, Sailer
declining, in open court, to appeal. "The court in general term
made a decree reversing the decree in special term so far as it
charged Emery, and dismissing the bill as to him. From that
decree the plaintiffs have appealed to this court.
It is not necessary to consider the question whether the bill,
if demurred to, or if the facts alleged in it were sustained by
the proofs, would lie, as setting forth a case for the cognizance
of a court in equity, because we are of opinion that the proofs
do not establish the allegations of the bill, so far as they affect
Emery, in respect to any relief prayed ag ,inst him in the bill,
or any relief granted against him by the court in special term,
and that no part of the relief contended for in the assignments
of error made by the appellants is warranted by the proofs.

The decree of the c~urt in~genercd te~rm i8 ajrm .

WIINCHESTER

& PARTRIDGE
COMPANY

MANUFACTURING

v. FUiQE.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF UTAH TERRITORY.
Submitted Deceffiber 6th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Contract.
For the purpose of settling a debt, the debtor gave to the creditor orders for

25 wagons, and the creditor gave to the debtor a written receipt, which he

