SHERMAN COUNTY v. SmIONS.
Statement of Facts.

SHERMAN COUNTY v. SIMONS.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
Submitted December 10th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

.B8toppel--funieipalBonds--HunicipaZ Cororations-_ebraska.
1. A bonafide holder for value before maturity of a bond issued by a county
is not bound to go behind the recitals in the bond to inquire whether
the amount of the indebtedness of the corporation exceeds that authorized by law.
2. When a statute directs an officer to examine and determine the amount of
the indebtedless of a county, for the purpose of further determining the
amount of bonds to be issued by the county for a given purpose, and the
officer performs the duty, the county cannot, in a suit by a holder of a
bond issued as a result of the exercise of the power by the-officer; set up
that the finding was not true.
3. When the legislature of Nebraska authorized a county which was indebted
to issue bonds for the amount of the indebtedness, that act was no infringement of the provision in the State Constitution then in force that,
"the legislature shall pass no special act conferring corporate powers."
The case of Commissioners of Jefferson County v. The !eople, 5 Neb. 127,
followed.
4. The issuing of bonds under such authority was no violation of the provision
in the present Constitution of Nebraska, that the legislature shall not
pass any local or special laws "granting to any corporation, association
or individual any exclusive privileges, immunities, or franchise whatever.
In all other cases where a general law can be made applicable, no special
law shall be enacted." A county is not a corporation within the meaning of this clause. Woods v. Colfax County, 10 Neb. 532, followed.

The court made the following statement of the case on
which its opinion is founded.
This was a suit brought on the coupons of certain bonds
issued by the commissioners of Sherman County, in the State
of Nebraska, dated January 1st, 1876, under an act of the legislature of that State approved February 18th, 1875, entitled
"An Act to authorize the commissioners of the counties of Colfax, Platt, Boone, Antelope, -Howard, Greeley, and Sherman to
issue bonds for the purpose of funding the warrants and orders
of said counties."
The act referred to authorizes the commissioners of each of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the counties named to issue bonds of the county, and to sell and
negotiate the same for moner, and declares that the proceeds
arising therefrom shall be used for the redemption of all warrants and other evidences of indebtedness drawn on the treasurer of the county, which were outstanding at the date of the
approval of the act, or might be outstanding prior to the first
day of January, 1875. The act contained the following provisos:
"Provided that no more of the bonds authorized to be issued
by virtue -of this act shall be issued than is necessary to pay off
and redeem such warrtnts so outstanding ; and provided further,
that the said commissioners shall not issue of said bonds to exceed
in value the amount of said indebtedness up to January 1st, 1875,
nor shall said bonds be n.egotiated atra less price than eighty-five
cents on the dollar."

The bonds recited on their face that they were issued by
authority of said act.
The answer averred that bonds were issued under said act -by
the corhmissioners of said county of Sherman to the amount of
$45,000, and that on January .st,1875, the debts of said county
did not exceed the sum of $16,000, and that the said bonds were
negotiated for less than eighty-five cents on the dollar. On
this answer.the plaintiff below took issue. The parties waived
a trial by jury, and submitted the cause to the court, which
made findings, from which the following facts appear:
On January 1st, 1876, the commissioners of Sherman County,
in pursuance of the act of February 18th, 1875, issued Among
others the bonds and coupons described in the petition, and the'
same came'into the possession of the plaintiff, who was a bona
fide purchaser for value, without notice of defects other than
appear on the face of the bonds, and was still the holder and
owner of said bonds and coupons.
The record of the commissioners of Sherman County showed
the allowance of. $15,000 in claims against the county from the
organization of the county to January 1st, 1875, for which
warrants were drawh on the treasury, and no more, but they
also shdwed that the commissioners at one of their meetings
estimated the amount of the county indebtedness which might

SHERMAN COUNTY

. SIMONTS.

Opinion of the Court.

be funded at the sum of $36,87-4.95, for which it would be necessary to issue bonds to.the amount of $43,400, and that bonds
were issued pursuant to such estimate, but it was not shown
what the actual indebtedness of the county was at the time the
bonds were issued.
Upon this finding the circuit court rendered judgment in
favor of the plaintiff below for $5,67L60. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error is prosecuted.
-Yr. Turner XE.MAfarquette, AXr. Imi8 A. Grof, Xr1. C. .
Hontgomery,-Yr. Hamer, and Xr. Conner for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Natlhzn S. Hanwood, and lr. John.H Ames, for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTIcF WOOns delivered the opinion of the court.
The .plaintiff in error insists that the facts found by the court
show an issue of bonds by the county in excess of the amount
authorized by the statute, and that they are therefore void.
The defendant in error is found by the circuit court to be a
bonaftde holder for value. According to repeated decisions of
this court, being such, he was not bound to go behind the law
and the recital of the bonds to inquire into the amount of the
county indebtedness. 3farcy v. Township of Qswego, 92 U. S.
637; Humboldt Towneldy v. Long, Tb. 642; TlRenon, v. Salamanca, 92 U. S. 499.
But if it be conceded that a purchaser of the bonds was required to inspect the records of the county to ascertain the
amount of its indebtedness, and whether there had been an overissue of bonds, it appears from the findings of fact that the
records of the commissioners contained an estimate of the indebtedness of the county madi by them for the express purpose
of fixing the amount of bonds to be issued, and in pursuance of
which they were issued, which showed that there was no overissue.
This was a decision by the very officers whose duty it was
under the law to fix the amount of bonds which could be lawfully issued. A purchaser of bonds was not required to make
further inquiry, and if the finding of the commissioners was
VOL. cix--47

OCTOBER TERM, 1883,
Opinion of the Court.

untrue, he could not be affected by its falsity.

See cases above

cited; also Zynde v. Die County, 16 Wall 6; Commissionera
v. January,94 U. S. 202; County of Marren v. MzXrcy, 97 IT.
S. 96; Commissioners v:.Bolles, 94 U. S.,104; Panav. Bowler,
107 U. S.:
629.

The next contention of the plaintiff in error is that the act
by which the issue of the bonds in suit was authorized was forbidden by section 1, article V1L, of the Constitution of Nebraska, which was in force at the date of the passage of the
act. That section declares "the legislature shall pass no special
act conferring corporate powers."
In-the case of the Commisioners of Jdee'son County v. 27te
People, 5 Neb. 127, decided at the July term, 1876, the Supreme
Court of Nebraska has conclusively settled this point against
the plaintiff in error. In that case an act of the legislature, in
all material respects similar to the act in question in this case,
except that it related to but one county, was brought under
consideration. The answer averred that the ct. was unconstitutional and void. Upon this point the court said:
"That Jefferson county is justly indebted to the relator for
the amount of the warrants in question will not be controverted;
and when such is the case, there is no doubt of the power of the
legislature to require'the county to issue its bonds for the amount
of its indebtedness."

The question raised by this contention was also considered
by this court in the case of Read v. .Plattsmouth, 107 U. S.
568. In that case an act of the legislature of Nebraska, approved February 18th, 1873, was brought under review. The
preamble of the act-recited that the city council of the city of
Plattsmouth had issued and sold certain bonds, and with the
proceeds thereof had proceeded to let the contract for the erection of a school-house, and had appointed two persons, naming
them, superintendents of the construction of the same, and that
the work on said building had commenced. The first section
then declared that all the acts. and proceedings of the city
council in relation to issuing said bonds and letting said con-

SHERMAN COUNTY v. SIMONS.
Opinion of the Court.

tract and the appointment of said superintendents, and all matters and proceedings connected therewith, which might in any
way affect the validity of -said bonds, should, be, and the same
were, thereby legalized, confirmed, and made valid in law.
This act was attacked as in violation of the same section of the
Constitution which the plaintiff in error invokes in this case.
It was contended that the act in question, by legalizing bonds
of the city, was void, because it had no power to issue them,
was legally equivalent to an act conferring upon the city power
to issue bonds which was conferring corporate power, and,
being a special act, was therefore unconstitutional. But this
court, speaking by Mr. Justice Matthews, said:
-As the city of Plattsmouth was bound by force of the transaction to repay to the purchaser of its void bonds the consideration received and used by it, or a legal equivalent, the statute
which recognized the existence of that obligation, and, by confirming the bonds themselves, provided a medium for enforcing
it according to the original intention and promises, cannot be
said to be a special act conferring upon the city any new corporate powers. No addition is made to its enumerated or implied corporate faculties, no new obligation is, in fact, created."

And the court added that the very proposition there involved
was maintained by the Supreme Court of Nebraska in the case
of Commissioners of Jfferson County v. The -PeopZe, 5 Neb.
127, above referred to. See also Railroad Company v. County
qf Otoe, 16 Wall. 667; Foster v. Commissioners of Wood
County, 9 Ohio St. 540.
In the cases of Clegg v. School _District, 8 Neb. 178, and
Dundy v. Richardson County, Id. 508, cited by plaintiff in
error, it was held that an act authorizing a school district or a
city to contract a debt for the purpose of erecting a public
building, and to issue bonds therefor, was forbidden by the
Constitution' because it was a special act conferring corporate
powers. These cases are clearly distinguishable from those we
have cited. In the latter, as in the case now under review, a
debt already existed, and the statute simply authorized a change
in the form of the obligation by which the debt was evidenced.

OCTOBER. TERM, 1883
Opinion of the Court.

The distinction is cfearly stated in Read v.

rlattmtu, tu

8upra, the court remarking:
"The statute operates upon the transaction itself, which had
already been consummated, and seeks to give it a character and
effect different in its legal aspect from that which it had when it
was in force;" and adds that such a result "is not affected by
the supposed form of the enactment as a special or general act
conferring corporate powers."

. The cases cited effectually dispose of the point under consideration.
Lastly, the plaintiff in error contends that the act under
which the bonds in suit were issued is repugnant to section 15,
art. IIL, of the present Constitution of Nebraska, which went
into effect November 1, 1875, after the law authorizing the
issue of the bonds was pdssed, but before the bonds were issued.
The section referred to declates:
"The legislature shall not pass any local or special laws in any
of the following cases: . . . Granting to any corporation,
association, or individual, any exclusive privileges, immufiity, or
franchise whatever. In all other cases, where a general law can
be made applicable, no special law shall be enacted."
t is a sufficient answer to the contention to say that the
word" corporation," as used in this section of the Constitution,
does not apply to a county. If a county is a corporation at
all, it.is necessarily a municipal corporation. But the Supreme
Court of Nebraska,. in the case of W~ood8 v. Cooa= County,
10 Neb. 552, expressly held that in Nebraska, a county was not
considered to be a municipal corporation. And it is clear that
the authority given by the act of February 18th, 1875, to Sherman and other counties, to fund the indebtedness evidenced by
county warrants, by giving their bonds in exchange therefor,
does not of itself make them municipal corporations.
But it is unnecessary further to discuss this branch of the
case. The decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska in The
Commseioners of JeTeson' County v. The People, 5 Neb. 127,
uli 8upra, which, as before stated, was a case in all respects

SHERMAN COUNTY v. SIMONS.
Opinion of the Court

741

-

similar to this, and in which the constitutionality of a similar
act of the legislature was put in issue, is precisely in point and
is conclusive of the question in hand.
We find no error in the record.
Thej dgment of the circuit court ie afflrmd.

