OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Opinion of the Court.

TROBERTSON and Others v. PIOKRELL and Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPEEME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUIMBIA.
Argued December 5th, 1883.-Decided December 17th, 1883.
.Districtof Colum7ia-Estoppel--Ed&nce--f
edgment-Proate-Transcripe
of 1udgment--- Will.
1. Records and judicial proceedings of each State affecting property or estate
within it have in every other State the force and effect which they possess
in the State of their origin : but as to similar property or estate situated
in another State, they have no greater or other force than similar records
or proceedings in the courts of that State.
2. The. probate of a will in one State does not establish the validity of the will
as a will devising real estate in another State, unless the laws of the latter State permit it. The validity of the will for that purpose must be
determined by the laws of the State in which the property is situated.
3. A transcript of the record of a probate of a will in Virginia, sufficient to
pass real estate there, is not proof of the validity of the will in the District of Columbia for the purpose of passing real estate there.
4. In order to pass real estate situated in the District of Columbia, a will must
be executed as provided by the laws in force there, and its validity must
be established in the manner provided by those laws.
5. Probate of a will in the District of Columbia is evidence of its validity only
so far as it affects personal property. As a will devising real estate the
instrument itself must be produced, with the evidence of the subscribing
witnesses, or if they be dead, or their evidence legally unattainable, with
proof of their handwriting.
6. The plaintiffs claimed as heirs of R. They showed a deed by R to S of
an estate in the premises for the life of M, but without covenants by S
to surrender to R or his heirs, or as to any further interest in R. They
also showed that the life estate of S passed by mesne conveyances to the'
defendants : ield, that the defendants were not estopped from setting
up an adverse superior title.

Suit to recover possession of 'a tract of land in the city of
Washington.
.2f'. . G. BigeZow for the plaintiffs in error.
-Mr.Samuel B. Paul for the defendants in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment for a parcel of land in the
city of Washington, District of Columbia. On the trial the
MR.JusTICE FIELD

ROBERTSON v. PICKRELL.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs gave in evidence a conveyance of the premises from
the United States to one Robert Moore, executed in June,
1800; and then endeavored to trace title from the grantee
through a devise in his last will and testament, bearing date in
July, 1803. For this purpose they produced and offered a
transcript of proceedings in the Hustings Court of Petersburg,
in the State of Virginia, containing a copy of the will and of
its probate in that court in December, 1804.
By the law of Virginia then in force, that court was authorized to take the probate of wills, as.well of real as of personal
estate; and when a will was exhibited to be proved, it could proceed immediately to receive proofs, and to grant a certificate
of its probate. Within seven years afterwards its validity was
open to contestation in chancery by any person interested; but,
if not contested within that period, the probate was to be
deemed conclusive, except as to parties laboring at the time
under certain disabilities, who were to have a like period to
contest its validity after the removal of their disabilities.
The transcript was offered not merely as an exemplified
copy of the record of the last will and testament of Robert
Moore, and of its probate in the Hustings court, but also as
conclusive proof of the validity of the will, and of all matters
involved in its probate. Upon objecti6n of the defendants'
counsel, it was excluded, and an exception was taken to the
exclusion. The ruling of the court constitutes the principal
error assigned for a reversal of the judgment.
We think the ruling was correct. Looking at the transcript
presented, we find that it shows only that a paper purporting
to be the last will and testament of the deceased was admitted
to record upon proof that the instrument and the signature to
it were in his handwriting. N'lo witnesses to its execution
were called, no proof was offered of the genuineness of the
signatures of the parties whose names are attached to it as
witnesses, and no notice was given to parties interested of the
proceedings in the Hustings court. As a record it furnishes
no proof of an instrument executed as a last -will and testament in a form to pass real estate in the District of Columbia.
The execution of such a will must be attested by at least three
VOL. CIX-89

' 610

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

witnesses. It matters not how effective the instrument may
be to pass real property in Virginia, it must be executed in the
manner prescribed by the law in force in the district to pass
real property situated there, and its validity must be establishedin the manner required by that law. It is familiar doctHune that the law of the place governs as to the formalities
necessary to the transfer of real property, whether testamentary or inter vivos. In most of the States in the Union a Will
of real piopprty must be admitted to probate in some one of
their courts before it can.be received elsewhere as a conveyance of such property. Butby the law of Iv[aryland, which
governs in the District of Columbia, wills, so far as real property is concerned, are not admitted to such'probate. The common-law rule prevails on that subject. The Orphans' court
there may, it is true, take the probate of wills, though they
affect lands, provided they affect chattels also; but the probate
is evidence of the -validity of the-will only so far as the personal property is concerned. As an instrument conveying real
property the probate is not evidence of its execution. That
must be shown by a production of the instrument itself and
proof by ti subscribing witnesses; or, if they be not living, by
proof of their handwriting.
So it matters not that the same effect is to be given in the
courts'of this district to the record of the Hustings court,
which, by tbte law of Virginia, can bb given to it there; that
is, that it is to, be received as sufficient to pass the title to real
propey' situated in that State. The questfon still remainsis the instrument sufficient to pass title to real property in
the District of Columbia? If so, it should have been produced, and, proved in the manner: mentioned. If, as stated by
counsel, it is on file in the Hustings court, and by the law of
Virginia cannot be removed, then it shoul4 have been proved
under a commission, as other instuments out of the State are
proved, when it is impossible to compel thieir' production in
court.
The act of Congress declaring the effedt to be given in any
coirt within the United States to the records and judicial proceedings*of the several States, does not require that thek shall

ROBERTSON v. PICKRELL.
Opinion of the Court.

have any greater force and efficacy in other courts than in the
courts of the States from which they are~taken, but only such
faith and credit as by law or usage they have there. Any
other rule would be repugnant to all principle, and, as'we said
on a former occasion, would contravene the policy of the provisions of the Constitution and laws of the United States on
that subject. Boardo. Public Iortm v. Colubi College, 17
Wall. 521, 529.
It does not appear that the validity of the will of Mroore, as
probated in 1804 in the Hustings Court of Petersburg, was ever
afterwards contested in a court of chancery in Virgiiiia. Its
probate must, therefore, be deemed conclusive, so far as that
State is concerned, and the will held sufficient to pass allproperty which can be there transferred by a valid instrument of
that kind. But no greater effect can be given out of Yirginia to
the proceedings in the Hustings court. The probate establishes
nothing beyond the validity of the will there. It does not take
the place of provisions necessaxyto its validity as a will of real
property in other States, if they are wanting. Its validity as
such will, in other States, depends on its execution in conformity with their laws; and if probate there be also required, such
probate must be had before it can be received as evidence.
Authority for these views is found in-the cases of _McCormack v. Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 192, and of .Dar&? v..-Myer, 10
Wheat. 465. In the first of them it app'eared that by the law
of Ohio, before a will devising real property can b considered
as valid, it must be presented to the court of common pleas of
the countr where the land lies, for probate, and be proved by
at least two of the subscribing witnesses, unless it has been
proved and recorded in another State according to its laws; in
which case an authenticated copy can -be offered for. probate
without proof by the witnesses. A will devising real property
in that State was admitted to probate in -the State of Penn,
sylvania, and this court held that such probate gave no validity
to the will in respect to the real property in Ohio, as to which'
the deceased was to be considered as having died intestate.
Ycor ak v. Sull'vant, 10 Wheat. at 202, 203. In the second case, which was an action of ejectment for land in Tennes-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

see, the defendant endeavored to trace title to the premises
through the will of one Kitts. - For that purpose a copy and
probate of the will devising the property were produced in
evidence, certified from the Orphans' Court of Baltimore
County, Maryland, and admitted against the objection of the
plaintiff. This court held the record inadmissible, and in its
opinion explained the common-law doctrine as to what was
legal evidence in an action of ejectment to establish a devise of
real property. It stated that the ordinary's probate was no
evidence of the execution of. the will in ejectment; that where
the will itself was in existence and could be produced, it was
necessary to produce it; and that when the will was lost or
could not be. produced, secondary evidence was necessarily resorted to; but that, whatever the proof, it was required to be
made before the court which tried the cause, the proof before
the ordinary being ex parte, the heir at law having no opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses, and the same solemnities
not being required to admit the will to probate, which are indispensable to give it validity as a devise of real property.
An:d the court added that the law of Maryland, with regard to
the evidence of a devise in ejectment, was the common law of
England, and had been so recognized in decisions of the courts
of that State. Darbyv. Mayer, 10 Wheat. at 468, 469.
The first of these cases shows that the probate of a will of
real property in one State is of no force in establishing the
validity of the will in another State. That must be determined
by the'laws of the State where the property is situated. The
second case shows that the proof of a devise of land in ejectment ii Maryland-and its law obtains in this district-must be
made by the production of the will in court, and evidence of its
execution by the subscribing-witnesses; or, if the will be lost,
or cannot be produced, the proof must be made by secondary
evidence of its -execution and contents,
The plaintiffs contend that they can use the record of the
Hustings court in Virginia as proof of the genuineness of the
instrument, and then supplement that proof by Parol evidence
that the original was executed by three witnesses, and thus establishit as a will sufficient to pass, real estate in the District

ROBERTSON v. PICKRELL.
Opinion of the Court.

of Columbia. But in this contention they overlook a material
circumstance. It is not sufficient to give effect to an instrument as a will of real property that its genuineness merely be
established. Its genuineness must be shown by the witnesses,
if they axe living, who attested its execution and heard the declaration of the testator as to its character and, if dead, their
handwriting must be proved, as already stated. :No other
proof will answer; oertainly not the probate of the will on
ex _parte testimony by a tribunal of another State or country.
When the record of the will and probate were excluded, the
plaintiffs offered parol evidence to show that the copy of the
will in the record was a true copy of the.original now on file
in the Hustings court. Upon objection the evidence was excluded, and we think properly so. The proof of such copy would
not have established the validity of the original instrument as a
will to pass real property in the District of Columbia. The
law of Maryland of 1-785, upon whic the plaintiff relies, assuming that it is still in force, which may be doubte4, was not designed to change the formalities required by the local law for
the validity of wills of real property executed in other States;
but to give to authenticated -copies of such instruments, when
rec6rded or filed with the register there, the same forcp and
effi6acy which would attend the originals if produaed.
Failing to secure the introduction of the record of the Hustings court and the parol evidence mentioned, the" plaintiffs insisted that the defendantd were estopped from.hsserting an
adverse title againist them. To support their position they introduced a deed by one Rob6rtson and his wife Maria, executed
in 1839 to one Samuel Redfer. conveying the premises for the
life of the said Maria, -and then showed '.conveyances in 'fee of
the property from Redfern to'one Fraser, and from: Fr~er tp
one John Pickrell, then a devise of thI property by him to
Anna Pickrell, and by her to the defendants; and that the
plaintiffs are heirs of Robertson and wife, who are dead, Maria
having died in 1873 . and they contended that the conveyance
by Thbertson and wife of a life estate to the grantor of parties
through whom::'lte defendints trace their interest, precluded

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

them from asserting any title against the right of the plaintiffs
to the reversion as heirs of Robertson and wife. This position
was assumed upon the notion that a party who receives a deed
of a life estate, and all persons taking a subsequent conveyance
in fee from him or his grantees, or deriving title by devise from
such grantees, are estopped to deny that the reversion upon the
termination of the life estate is vested in the grantor or his
heirs.
There was here, of course, no estoppel by deed against Redfern, the grantee of the life estate, for he did not join in the
execution of the instrument, nor is his seal annexed to it. If
any estopliel was created against his acquisition of the reversion from other parties than his grantors or persons claiming
under them, it was one in pai8; and that can arise as between
grantor and grantee only where from the relation of the parties
there is implied in the acceptance of possession under the deed
an obligation to restore the p6ssession on the happening of certain events, or to hold the property for the grantor's benefit or
persons designated by'him, such as exists from the relation of
landlord and tenant, of mortgagor and mortgagee, or the
creator of a trust and trustee. Gardner v. Greene, 5 R. I. 164.
The doctrine that a lessee entering into possession under a
lease is estopped, whilst retaining possession, to deny .his'landlord's title is familiar. That arises from the nature of the contract of lease, *hich is for the possession and use, for a prescribed period, of the lessor's property, upon considerations to
him by way of rent or otherwi~e, It implies an obligation to
surrender the premises to the lessor on the termination of the
lease, that is at the expiration of the time during which the
owner has stipulated that the lessee may have the use and possession of his property. As said by this court in Bg-ght'81e88ee
v. .Ro eeter, I Wheat. 535, "the title of the lessee is in fact
the title of the lessor. He comes in by virtue of it, holds by
virtue of it, and rests upon it to maintain and justify his positioii. He professes to have no independent right in himself,
and it is a, part of the very essence of the contract under which
he claims that the paramount ownership of the lessor shall be
acknowledged during the continuance -of the lease, and that

ROBERTSON v. PICKRELL
Opinion of the Court.

possession shall be surrendered at its expiration. He cannot
be allowed to controvert the title of the lessor without disparaging his own, and he cannot set up the title of another without
violating that contract by which he obtained and holds.possession, and breaking that faith which he has pledged, and the
obligation of which is still continuing and in full operation,"
page 54:7. And, in speaking in the same case of the relation
between' vendee and vendor, the court added:
"The vendee acquires the property for himself, and his faith
is not pledged to maintain the title-of the vendor. The rights of
the vendor are intended to be extinguished by the sale, and he
has no continuing interest inthe maintenance of his title, unless
he should be called upon in consequence of some covenant or
warranty in his deed. The property having become by.the sale
the property of the vendee, he has a right to fortify that title by,
the purchase of any other which may protect him in the quiet enjoyment of the premises. No principle-of morality restrains him
from doing this, nor is either the letter or the spirit of the contract violated by it," page 548.
See also W'lon v. Watl7dn, 3 Pet. 43; Iatkik8 v. Holmwa,
16 Pet. 54, and Taylor on Landlord and Tenant, sec. 14.
To this general statement of the law there is this qualification, that a grantee cannot dispute his grantor's title at the
time of conveyance so as to avoid payment of the purchase
price of the property; nor can the grantee in a contest with
another, whilst relying solely upon the title conveyed to him,
question its validity when set up by the latter. In othe words,
he cannot assert that the title obtained from his grantor, or
through him, is sufficient for his protection, and not available
to his contestant. Where both parties assert title from a common grantor, and .no other source, neither can deny that such
grantor had a valid title when he executed his conveyance.
Ae8 v. Sawyer, 4 Dev. & Bat. Law, 51, and G-iiam v. Bird,
8 Iredell Law, 280. The case of Board v. Board,to which
counsel refer, was decided up6n similar grounds. There the
deendant in ejectment, claiming as grantee under the devisee

OCTOBER TERM, 1883..
Opinion of the Court.

of' a life estate under a will, was held to be estopped from denying the, validity of the will in an action by the grantees of the
remainderman. Law :Rep. 9 Queen's Bench, 48.
With exceptions or limitations of this character it will be
found on examination of the authorities, particularly those of
a modem date, that the doctrine of estoppel irnpais,however
it may have .been- applied formerly, cannot now be asserted to
preclude the grantee from denying his grantor's title and acquiring a superior one, unless there exists such a relation of the
parties to each othe as would render the proceeding a breach
of good faith and common honesty. No such relation exists
between giantor'and grantee in an absolute conveyance without
recital or covenant, whether it be of the fee or of an estate for
life. The grantee does not recognize by the acceptance of such
a conveyance of an estate for the life of another, the possession
of any greater estate in the grantor, or any obligation to hold
the premises for him- after the termination of the estate. So
far as he is informed by such a conveyance he takes the entire
-interest of the grantor' in the property. He does him, therefore, no wrong by purchasing any adverse claims which may
strengthen his own title, or which may give him a title after
the termination of the life estate. Covenants in the instrument
intended for him, such as to restore and surrender the premises
on the termination of the life estate, or recitals declaring the
reversion to be in the grantor or others, would of course change
the relations of the parties. Obligations from such covenants
or recitals might arise which' would control the action of the
grantee. Atlantic Dock Co. v. Leavitt, 5-4 N. Y. 35. Here, as
already stated, there is nothing of the kind. The conveyance
is for the life of Maria and no longer, and without covenants
or recitals as to any further interest of the grantors or of others.
By taking a deed poll of this character no obligation to the
-grantors could arise, and, consequently, no estoppel precluding
the grantee, and those claiming under him, from accepting conveyances from other sources to strengthen their existing interests or to acquire the reversion, and thus securing to themselves the absolute fee.

In Osterhout v. ,Shemaker, 3 Hil,

513, the Supreme Court of New York held a similar dodtrinq

ROBERTSON v. PICKRELL.

.617

Opinion of the Court,

as to the relation between grantor and grantee in fee. Speaking by Judge Bronson it said:
"There is no estoppel where the occupant is not under an obligation, express or implied, that he will at some time, or in some
event, surrender the possession. The grantee in fee is under no
such obligation. He does not receive the possession under any
contract, express or implied, that he will ever give it up. He
takes the land to hold for himself, and to dispose of it at pleasure.
He owes no faith or allegiance to the grantor, and he does him
no wrong when he treats him as an utter stranger to the title."
This language was subsequently cited with approval by the
court of appeals of the State in the case of Sparrow v. E~ingman,
1 N. Y. 242, and there is no reason why it should not apply
with equal force to a grantee of an estate for life as to a grantee
in fee. There is nothing in the nature of the estate which
necessarily implies that the grantor is the owner of the reversion. The absence in the deed here of any reference to a reversionary interest would rather seem to negative such ownership."
Be that as it may, there was no implied obligation from any
relation of the parties to each other which could estop the
grantee of the life estate, or persons claiming under him, from
denying the title of his grantors to any greater estate than the
one conveyed, or from acquiring title to the.reversion from
other sources.
We have considered in this opmInon that ledfern took possession of the premises in controversy under the deed to him
of the life estate, because on the argument that fact was assumed as established; but there is no direct evidence on the
point in the record.
.Judgment -affirmed.

