OCTOBER TER,

1883.

Syllabus.

was an acceptance of the 21 in paymentpro tanto of the claim;
that the contract for the payment in wagons was unfulfilled as
to the 4 wagons not delivered; and that the price for which
the 19 wagons were sold, and the selling value of the 2 not sold,
have no bearing on the case under the fist count, unless there
be a surplus of tlie proceeds of sale, to be refunded to the appellee under the contract.
As to the second count, it sets forth a good cause of action.
That count does not involve on its face any question as to the
contract evidenced by the receipt embodied in the first count.
!Xe 4udgment of t4e supreme court is reversed, with direction
to itYo reverse thejudgment of the districtcourt, and to tae
or direct suchfurther~poceedingsin the suit as may be according to 74w and in conformity with this opinion.

WYMAT,Treasurer, v. HALSTEAD, Administrator.
IN

ERROR TO TEE SUPREME' COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM3'EA.
Argued December 13th, 14th, 18S.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

-Administraion--Claim against the United States-Conflict of TurisdictionDistrictof Columbia-.7iandamus-Treasurerof the United States.
For the purpose of founding administration, a simple contract debt is assets

where the debtor resides, even if a bill of exchange or promissory note has
been given for it, and without regard to the place where the bill or note is
found or payable.
Debts due from the United States are not local assets at the seat of government
only.
The treasurer of the United States cannot be compelled by writ of mandamus
to pay to an administrator, appointed in the District of Columbia, of an inhabitant of one of the States of the Union, the amount of a draft payable to the intestate at the treasury out of an appropriation made by
Congress, and held by such administrator.

-Y. Assistao Attorney-General_-Taury for the United States.
-M'. A. I. ferriman and -Mr. Z IF Cooksey for defendant
in error.
MR.JusTicE Gn&-r delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error sued out by the Treasurer of the United

WYMAN v. HALSTEAD.
Opinion of the Count

States, to reverse a judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, ordering a peremptory writ of mandamus to
issue against him upon the petition of Eminel 1. Halstead, as
administrator, appointed in the District, of the estates of John
N. Pulliam and John J. Pulliam (each of whom was an inhabitant of the State of Tennessee at the time of his death), and as
trustee appointed by that court, to compel the payment to him
of the amount of certain drafts hereinafter mentioned.
The petition alleged, and the answer admitted, these facts:
On June 17th, 1882, Wyman, then and still Treasurer of the
United States, residing and transacting the business of his office
at Washington in the District of Columbia, issued, under and
by virtue of the act of Congress of May 1st, 1882, c. 114, making appropriations therefor, three drafts payable at the treasury
in Washington, one for $3,020, payable to John J. Puliam,
executor of John N. Pulliam, or order, and two for $1,223 and
$545 respectively, payable to John J. Pulliam or order; tnd
the three drafts were delivered to Halstead on account of the
payees. John J. Pulliam afterward died, and Halstead, having the drafts in his possession, applied for, and on August 2d,
1882, obtained, letters of administration in the District of Columbia upon the several estates of the two Pulliams. In September, 1882, Benjamin U. Keyser filed a bill on the equity
side of the Supreme Court of the District against Halstead and
others, claiming an equitable interest in these drafts or -. e proceeds thereof ; and in itarch, 1883; obtained a decree directing
liastead, as administrator as aforesaid, and as trustee for that
purpose, to indorse and collect the drafts, and to make distribution of the proceeds. In obedience to this decree, Halstead, on
April 19th, 1883, indorsed the drafts, and demanded paymenlit
thereof of Wyman, as treasurer of the United States; but he,
although having sufficient money in his possession, appropriated
by Congress; refused to pay them without the indorsements of
administrators appointed in the State of Tennessee, the domicil
of the two deceased persons.
The opinions delivered in the court below, upon granting the
writ of mandamus, are reported in 11 Washington ILaw Re.
porter, 370-377, 385-394.

656

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

The determination of ,this case does not depend upon the
question whether administration was rightly taken out in the
District of 0o ir'iia, nor upon the question whether an administrator appointed else-where could sue within the District upon
debts payable here, but upon the quest'in whether a' payment
by the United States to an administrhtor already or hereafter
appointed in Tennessee, the domicil of the deceased, would be
a good discharge of the debts, payment of which is now sought
to be enforced.
The general rule of law is well settled, that for the.purpose
of founding administration all simple contract debts are assets
at the domicil of the d~btor; and that the locality of such a
debt for this purpose is not affected by a bill.of exchange or
promissory note having been given for it, because the bill'or
note does not alter the nature of the debt, but is merely evidence of it, and therefore the debt is assets where the debtor
lives, without regard to the place where the instrument is found
or payable. -eoman8 v. Bradshaw, Carth.. 373; S. C.Comb.
392; Holt, 42; 3 Salk. '[0, 164; Abinger, C. B., in .Attorney
General v. Bouwen, 4 M. & W. 171, 191; . .1 Horn &
Hurlstone, 319, 324; Parke, B., in .Jondel v. "Steele,1 Dowl.
(N. S.) 155, 157; Slocum v. Sanford,2 Conn. 533; C7iapman v.
FIA, 6 HKill, 554; Owen v. .iller, 10 Ohio St. 136; Pinney v.
XoGregory, 102 Mass. 186.
An administrator is of course obliged to demand payment at
the place where the bill or note is payable; and he may find
difficulty, unless it is payable to bearer, in suing upon it in a
place in which he.has not taken out administration. But payment to the administrator appointed in the State in which the
intestate had his domicil at the time of his death, whether
made within or without that State, is good against any administrator appointed elsewhere. Vilkins v. -Ellett, 9 Wall. 740.
and 108 U. S.
As was said by Mr. Justice Story, in delivering the judgment of this court in Vau'ghan v. No~rthu2, 15 Pet. 1, 6, and
repeated by Mr. Justice McLean, in delivering judgment in
fackey~v. Coxe, 18 How. 100, 105:

WYMAN v. HALSTEAD.
Opinion of the Court.

"The debts due from the government of the United States
have no locality at the seat of government. The United States,
in their sovereign capacity, have nb particular place of domicil,
but possess, in contemplation of law, an ubiquity throughout the
Union; and the debts due by them are not to be treated like the
debts of a private debtor, which constitute local assets in his own
domicil. On the contrary, the administrator of a creditor of the
government, duly appointed in the State where he was domiciled
at the time of his death, has full authority to receive payment and
give a full discharge of the debt due to his intestate, in any place
where the government may choose to pay it."
In Vaugha v. 3Tortup, an administrator, appointed in
Kentucky, of an inhabitant of that State who died there intestate and childless, received a sum of money from the treasury
of the United States, for militnry services rendered by the intestate during the Revolutionary War; and a bill in equity, filed
against him in the District of Columbia by the next of kin, for
their distributive shares of the money, was dismissed for want
of jurisdiction, because an administrator, appointed in and deriving his authority from one State, was not liable to be sued
elsewhere, in his official character, for assets lawfully' received
by him under and in virtue of his original letters of administration.
In that case, as in this, it was argued by counsel that the
assets in question were not collected in the State of the intestate's domicil, "but were received as a debt due from the
government at the Treasury Department at Washington, and so
constituted local assets within this District." It was in declining to yield to that argument, that the court'laid down the
general principles above quoted, and added:
"If any other doctrine were to be recognized, the consequence
would be, that before the personal representative of any deceased
creditor, belonging to any State in the Union, would be entitled
to receive payment of any debt due by the government, he would
be compellable to take out letters of administration in this District
for the due administration of such assets. Such a doctrine has
never yet been sanctioned by any practice of the government,
VoL.

-ix-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

and would be full of puble as well as private inconvenience, R
has not, in, our-judgment, any- just foundation in the principles of
law. We think that Northup, under the letters of administration
taken out in Kentucky, was fully authorized to receive the debt
from the government to his intestate ; that the moneys so received
constituted assets under that administration, for which he was accountable to the proper tribunals in Kentucky-; and that distribution thereof might ha-ve been, and should have been, sought there
in the same manner as of any other debts due to the intestate in
Kentucky."
The act of June 24th, 1812, c. 106, ยง 11 (since omitted in the
Revision in 1874 of the Statutes of the District), by which executors or administrators appointed in any State or Territory
were permitted to maintain any suit or action, or to prosecute
and recover any claim, in the District of Columbia, as if they
had been appointed here, was referred to in the opinion, not as
the principal ground of decision, but as affording no support
for the bill, and as fortifying rather than weakening the
general principles of law upon the subject. 2 Stat. 758; 15

Pet. 7, 8.
In the case at bar, neither the fact that, the drafts were made
payable at the treasury of the United States in the city of
Washington, nor the deposit, pursuant to ยง 307 of the Revised
Statutes, of the money represented by the di-afts in the treasury to the credit of the payees, affected the character or the
locality of the debts. The deposit of the money gave the
payees or their representatives no property in or lien upon it.
The obligation of the United States was not to surrender to
them any specific sums of money, but to pay to thqm sums
equal to the amount credited to them, as in the case of any other
liquidated debt. The creditors could not indeed insist upon
payment without first demanding it at the treasury. But the
United States, in their sovereign capacity, having no domicil
in any one part of the Union rather than in any other, do not,
by establishing at the national capital a treasury for the transaction of the principal business of the financial department of
the government, and making their money obligations payable
there, confine their presence or their powers to this spot. The

BACHMAN v. LAWSON.
Syllabus.

United States having, in the phrase of Mr. Justice Story, "an
ubiquity throughoat the Union," may in their discretion, exercised through the appropriate officers, pay a debt, due to the
estate of a deceased person, either to the administrator appointed in the State of his domicil, or to an ancillary administrator duly appointed in the District of Columbia; and the exercise of their discretion in this regard cannot be controlled by
writ of mandamus.
It is hardly necessary to mention the proceedings in equity
upon the suit of Keyser. Though referred to in the petition
for the writ of mandamus in the general terms stated at the
beginning of this opinion, they have not been printed in full in
the record, as required by the eighth rule. The reason doubtless is, that both in the opinion of the court below and in the
argument in this court, while it is said that the administrator
appointed in Tennessee of the estate of John N. Pulliam was
made a defendant in that suit, and the bill taken for confessed
against him, it is admitted that he was not amenable as administrator to suit in this District, and that neither he, nor any
administrator hereafter appointed in Tennessee of the estate of
John J. Pulliam, could be concluded by that decree.
The result is, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus
must be reversed, and the case remanded to that court, with
directions to
-Dismzea thepetition.

BACEMAN & Others v. LAWSOIN & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT

OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK.

SubmItted December 14th, 1883.-Decided January 7th, 1884.

Alabama Claims-Assignment-Attorney and Counse---tatute8.
An agreement made a fortnight before the Treaty of Washington of 1871, and

by which the owners of a ship and cargo taken by the armed rebel cruiser,
the Florida, employed a person, whether an attorney at law or not, to use
his best efforts to collect their "claim arising out of the capture," and

