QCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

GREEN COUNTY v. CONNESS.
.fI ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DIVISION OF THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF

MI5SOUII.

Submitted October 9th, 188.-Decided October 29th, 1888.

Franchises-: unici2 Bond-f-MunicipaZ Cor oration-Railroad.
1 The court adheres to its former rulings in regard to the liability of municipal corporations to innocent holders of the bonds of such corporations,
issued in aid of railroads. Douglas v. .Pike County, 101 U. S. 677.
2. The rights of such holders are to be determined by the law as it was
judicially construed to be when the bonds were put on the market as
commerdial paper.
S. A consolidation of two railroad corporations merges the franchises and
privileges of each in the new company, so that they continue to exist in
respect to the roads thus consolidated.

Suit to recover coupons due on bonds issued by the county
in payment of a subscription made by virtue of the laws of the
State of Missouri, to aid in the construction of a railroad that
became consolidated with the Hannibal an' St. Joseph :Railroad. The authority to lend the aid was obtained before the
consolidation, and was exercised after it. The defendant in
error was the owner and holder for value of some of the bonds
before maturity. Judgment against the county in the court
below. Error to reverse that judgment.
The case was submitted by .1f,'. P. T. Simmons, 1 r. C arZle8
"W: Thrasher,and ._Rr.Benny C. Young, on behalf of the plaintiff in error, and by .M!r.Ja4nes S. Bottsford, XAr. .Marcu8 T.
C. Tillidms, and .1Yr.Robert G. Ingersoll, on behalf of the
defendant in e'rror.
delivered the opinion of the court.
Nearly every point in this case has already been decided by
this court in the cases of County of Callaway v. Fo8ter, 93
U. S. 567; County of Scotland v. Thomas, 94: U. S. 682;
County of Henry v. _Nicolay, 95 U. S.'619 ; (Jounty of Schuyler
v. [Thomas, 98 U. S.169; County of Cass v. Gillett, 100 U. S.
585; Louisana(City) v. Taylor, 105 U. S.454; and County of
Ralls v. Douglass, 105 U. S. 728. In the case last cited we
MR. JUSTICE PRADLEY

GREEN COUNTY v. CONNESS.
Opinion of the Court.

referred to the previous cases, and to the cases in Missouri
which they followed, and said:
"Such being the condition of the law on this subject do n to
April, 1878, we do not feel inclined to reconsider our former
rulings, and folloW the later decisions of the Suprbme Court of,
the State in State v. Garroutte, 67 Mo. 445, and State v. Dallas
County, 72 Mo. 329, where this whole line of cases was substantially overruled. The bonds involved in this suit were all in the
hands of innocent holders when the law of the State was so
materially altered by its courts. In our opinion the rights of the
parties to this suit are to be determined by the -claw as it was
judicially construed to be when the bonds in question were put
on the market as commercial paper.' .Dofzglass v. .Pike County,
101 U. S.. 677, 687."

From the views thus expressed we are not disposed to
swerve.
One point taken in the present case may not have been presented in any of the cases cited, to wit, that the rights, privileges,
and franchises of the Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company were not expressly declared to pass over to the company
with which it might become consolidated, by the law authoriz.
ing such consolidation. This law was passed Miarch 11, 186r,
and declared as follows:
"It shall be lawful and competent for said company to make
sach arrangement, with any other railroad company to furnish
equipments and to run and manage its railroad as it may deem
expedient and find necessary, or to lease the same, or to consolidate it with any other company upon such terms as may be
deemed just and proper."

In the "finding of facts" made by the -court, it is, amongst
other things, found as follows :
"1That under the provisions of an act of the general assembly
of the State of Missouri, approved May l1th, 1867, entitled, &c.,
the said corporation, then known as the Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company, on the 21st day of February, in the
year 1870, was consolidated with the Hannibal and St. Toseph

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

Railroad Company, and all the rights, privileges, franchises, and
property of said Kansas City and Cameron Railroad Company
were, by said consolidation, transferred to the Hannibal and St.
Joseph Railroad Company, which then and thereby became the
owner of and possessed of the same."
If only a sale of the road to another company had been
authorized and made, then it might very plausibly have been
contended that the purchasing company took and held it
under its own charter only, without the franchises and privileges connected with it in the hands of the vendor company;
but "consolidation." isnot sale, and when two companies are
authorized to consolidate their roads, it is to be presumed that
the franchises and privileges of each continue to exist in respect to the several roads so consolidated. This point was
considered in the case of Tomlin~on v. BrancA, 15 Wall. 460,
and Branch v. City of Charleston,92 U. S. 677, and was decided in accordance with this view. This being so, the authority given to consolidate, "upon such terms as may be deemed
just and proper," would include the power to transfer to the
consolidated company the franchises and privileges connected
with the road, if the law itself did not have that effect; and
the court has found that this was done. We think, therefore,
that the point is not well taken.
The judgment of the circuit court i8 aeffirmed.

HASKINS v. ST. LOUIS & SOUTHEASTERN RAILWAY
COMPANY & Another.
APPEAL FROM -THE

CfCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TEE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENESSEE.
Submitted October 9th,1883.-Deelded October 29th, 1888.

Appea-Apea:Z Bond-Certiorari.
The authority confeyred by R. S., ยง 1000, to certify to the responsibility of an
obligor on an appeal bond cannot be delegated. After close of term, citation must issue and be served before the security can be approved and the
appeal completed so as to givo jurisdiction above.

