MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON.

121

Syllabus.

with the washer. The use of the washer is stated in the specification to be to keep the eye at the end of the bail from contact with the wood or the paint thereon. The upper point or

leg of the staple goes through the eye and through the centre
of the washer.

But, the presence of the washer does not mod-

ify or affect the action of the staple, nor does the staple modify
or affect the action of the washer.

The washer keeps the eye

of the bail from rubbing the wood of the pail.

It would have

the same effect if it were fastened in some other way than by

having the leg of the staple pass through it, and the staple
would in such case have the same operatin which it now has.'
The decree of the circuit court is afflrmed.

MAN-HATTA.NLIFE TN1SUJRANCE CO.v. BROUG]ITON,
Trustee.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR TME
SOUTHERN DISTRICIT OF .NEWYORK.
Argued October 22d, 1883.-Decided N ovember 5th, 1883.

Fdenee-Insanity--_tuwranJze-,udgment- artie8-Statute-Su ic'.
1. A judgment of nonsuit is no bar to a ne* action, and of no weight as evidence at the trial of that action.
2. Pending an action in a court of the State of New York against a corporation
established in that State, by a widow, a citizen of New Jersey, upon a
policy of insurance on the life of her husband, the plaintiff assigned the
policy to a citizen of New York in trust for her benefit, and was afterwards nonsuited by order of the court. Upon a subsequent petition by
the trustee to another court of the State to be relieved of his trust, a citizen
of New Jersey was at her request appointed trustee in his stead. One
object of this appointment was to enable a stit on the policy to be brought
in the Circuit Court of the United States, which was afterwards brought
accordingly: Held, that the suit should not be dismissed under the act
of 3d March, 1875, c. 137, ยง 1, 5.
8. A self-killing by an insane person, understanding the physical nature and
consequeices of bs act, but not its moral aspect, is not a death by suicide, within the meaning of a condition in a policy of insurance upon his
life, that'the policy shall be void in case he shall die by suicide, or by the
hands of justice, or in consequence of a duel, or of the violation of any

law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Argument for the Plaintiff in Error.

The main facts in this case are stated in the opinion of the
court. For the purposes of the reported argument below it is
sufficient to say that the plaintiffs in error insured the life of
one Ferguson for. $10,000, payable to his wife in ninety days
after proof of his death; that the policy was to be void if Ferguson should die by suicide; that Ferguson hanged himself;
that suit was brought in the Court of Common Pleas of the City
of New York by the widow to recover on the policy, in which
under a ruling of the court the plaintiff became nonsuited; that
the claim, after commencement of suit and before nonsuit, was
assigned to a trustee, a citizen of New York, to secure a debt;
and that after nonsuit the trustee was removed by amicable
judicial proceedings, and the defendant in error, a citizen of
New Jersey, substituted,, the object being to have this suit
brought.
21r. James Otg H7oyt for the plaintiff in error.
1. The expression, "in case he shall die by suicide,." includes
If a man takes his
all cases of voluntary self-destruction.
life, knowing and intending the consequences of his act, it is his
act within the meaning of the policy, and it is immaterial
whether he did not know the difference between right and
wrong; but if he was so insane that he did not know that his
act would kill him, and did not intend it should, it was not his
act within the meaning of the policy. The question is whether
the self-killing was his own act, and not whether it was his
responsible act. This is the law of New York, the Zou8 of
the contract.
'Fan Zandt v. Xut,.Benefit In8: Co., 55 N. Y. 169; MeClure
v. -. I. I Co., 55 N. Y. 651 -De Gogorza v. lrnicjterbocker
I Co., 65 N. Y. 232; TWeed v. fuTt. Benefit Ins. Co., 70 N. Y.
)ean v. Am. I 6o., 4 Allen, 96;
561.-Of Massachusetts.
Co.,
102 Mass. 227.-Of Pennsylvania
Cooperv. 3fass. -Mut.Ins.
and other States. Am. I. I Co. v. Isett's Admr., 4 Penn. 176 ;
St. Loui8 .Ikutl. I. I Co. v. Graves, 6 Bush (Ky.), 268.-Of
England. Borradilev. Hunter, 5 Man. and G. 639; .Dufaur
v. Professional Ass. Co., 25 Beav. 599.

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON.

123

Opinion of the Court.
2. The cases of Life Insurance Company v. Terry, 15 Wall.
580; Insurance Company v. Rodel, 95 U. S. 232, though seeming to adopt a somewhat different doctrine from the above case,
do not go as far as the larned judge below in his charge. There
is no evidence of any insane impulse in the case. On the contrary, the. evidence shows a deliberately planned and intelligently executed act of suicide.
3. The evidence shows that the plaintiff was made trustee by
the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and for the purpose of bringing an action in the United States Court, Mrs.
Ferguson having failed to recover under the New York rule.
The court below .had no jurisdiction ; or if the plaintiff was a
citizen of New Jersey, it should not have exercised its jurisdiction, the appointment having been made merely to bring the
action where it was supposed a more favorable rule existed
than in New York.
4. The same issues involved in this action were tried in the
case in the Court of Common Pleas for the City of New York,
and the judgment in that case was a bar to the present one and
an estoppel. Jfrekeler v. Bitter, 62 N. Y. 372. In the event of
a recovery by plaintiff, the amount of the'judgment in the Court
of Common Pleas should be deducted.
.r.

Erastu F. Brown for the defendant in error.

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought on the 9th of June, 1879, in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York by John G. Broughton, a citizen of Bloomfield, in
the State of New Jersey, against a corporation established
in the city and State of New York, upon a policy of insurance
in the sum of $10,000 on the life of Israel Ferguson, of New
York, dated the 15th of June, 1864, made and payable to his
wife, and containing a condition that it should be null and void
"in case he shall die by suicide, or by the hands of justice, or
in consequence of a duel, or of the violation of any law of these
States, or of the United States," or of any other country
which he might be permitted by this policy to visit or reside in.
At the trial the plaintiff offered evidence that Ferguson died
MiL JusicE

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

in the city of N'ew York on the 14th of August, 1816, and that
presently afterwards his widow and family removed to Red
Bank, in the State of New Jersey, and had since had their
home there. He also introduced a deed, dated the 10th of
February, 1877,by which Mrs. Ferguson assigned the policy
to John G. -Nestell, of New York, in trust to pay a claim for
$2,000 and the necessary expenses of collecting the amount of
'the policy, and to invest the surplus for her benefit; and a
record of the Supreme Court of New York, showing that in
May, 1879, in a suit brought by Nestell against Mrs. Ferguson
to be relieved of his trust, Broughton, the plaintiff, was, upon
her request, substituted as trustee in Nestell's stead. There
was evidence tending to show that one object in having
Broughton appointed was that a suit could be brought in his
name in the United States court.
The defendant, having pleaded in bar a former judgment in
an action brought against it upon the policy by Mrs. Ferguson,.
in October, 1876, in the Court of Common Pleas for the City
and County of New York, offered evidence by which it appeared that in such an action the death of Ferguson by hanging himself was proved, and the only question in controversy
was whether, and how far, he was insane at the time of his
death; and that upon the defendant's motion the court, in
December, 1878, granted a nonsuit, because he was not shown
to have been so insane as not to know the physical consequences
of his act, and the decision was entered of record in this form:
"1Motion for nonsuit granted, and complaint dismissed ; allowance one hundred andt fifty dollars to defendant, if 'further litigation be carried on by plaintiff."

The defendant requested the circuit court to direct a verdict
for the defendant, because the former judgment was a bar; and
afterwards objected to the introduction by the plaintiff of evidence of the condition of Ferguson's mind at the time of his
death, because that question had been tried and determined in
the former action. The court rightly denied the request, and
overruled the objection. A judgment of nonsuit does not determine the rights of the parties, and is no bar to a new action.

MANgIATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON.

125

Opnion of the Court.

Rlomer v. Brown, 16 How. 354-. A trial upon which nothing
was determined cannot support a plea of resjudicata,or have
any weight as evidence at another trial
The defendant, at the close of the plaintiff's evidence in chief,
and again at the close of all the evidence in the case, moved to
dismiss the action for want of jurisdiction, because Broughton
had only a nominal interest, and the real controversy was between citizens of New York; and at the argument in this court
contended that the action .should be dismissed because the evidence showed that the plaintiff was made trustee for the purpose of bringing an action in the United States court, after Mrs.
Ferguson had failed to recover in the State court, under the
rule established by the recent decisions of the Court of Appeals
in 'Fan Zandt v. Mfutual Benefit Im. Co., 55 N. Y. 169, and
Wfeed v. game, 70 N. Y. 561.
But the case does not fall within the prohibition of the first
section of the act of 3d March, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470,
472; that no circuit court shall have cognizance of any suit
founded on contract, in favor of an assignee, unles a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court- to recover thereon
if no assignment had been made; nor within the provision of
the fifth section of the same act, authorizing the circuit court
to dismiss a suit, upon being satisfied that it does not really and
substantially involve a dispute or controversy properly within
its jurisdiction, or that parties have been improperly or collusively made or joined for the purpose of creating a case cognizable by that court. Williams v. 2'Tottaw, 1041U. S. 209. Mrs.
Ferguson, the assured and payee named in the policy, was herself a citizen of New Jersey, and as such, if no assignment had
been made, might have sued the company in the Circuit Court
of the United States; and Broughton, a citizen of the same
State, was appointed in the stead of the former trustee, a citizen of New York, not by Mrs. Fergason's deed in pais, but by
a court of competent jurisdiction. Under these circumstances,
the mere fact that one object in having him appointed was to
enable a suit to be brought in the circuit court is not sufficient
to require or justify the construction that he was improperly,
and it cannot be pretended that he was collusively, made a

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff for the p5urpose of creating a case cognizable by that
court. The question involved was not a question of local law,
but of general jurisprudence, upon which Mrs. Ferguson, and
Broughton as her trustee, had a right to seek the independent
judgment of a federal court. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17
Wall. 357, 368; 3fyrick v. .7ichiganz Central Railroad, 107
IU.S. 102; Burgesm v. Seligman, 107 -U. S. 20.
Several minor points suggested at the argument hardly present any question of law.
The interrogatories put by the counsel for the plaintiff to the
expert called by the defendants were clearly admissible on crossexamination, for the purpose of testing the knowledge and
accuracy of the witness, and require no special consideration.
The instruction requested, that "the only legal test of insanity
is delusion," was in direct contradiction of the testimony of the
experts called on each side, and could not properly be given as
a rule of law.
The court rightly refused to direct a verdict for the defendant on the ground that there was no sufficient evidence to show
that Ferguson was insane, or to render the defendant liable
upon its contract. Without undertaking to recapitulate the
evidence, it is sufficient to say that members of his family, and
persons well acquainted with him in his business, testified that
he was naturally of a lively, cheerful, sanguine disposition;'
that in 1874 he met with heavy losses in business, and his son
died suddenly by falling from a window; that from that time
forward there was a marked change in his demeanor; "he was
always walking with his head bowed down, and a gloomy expression, and the entire vitality and cheerfulness which the
man had before was gone; " 1"he was gloomy, dull, mopish;"
"he sat down in the office and moaned and would be gloomy
there;" "he always complained of his head; he would say,
' The trouble is here; it is all in my head, my head;'" that
shortly before his death he had "a vacant expression in his
face;" "he had a queer expression about his eyes; it was sort of
a wild, unnatural expression;" "that kind of expression which
the human face takes on. when one is frightened; a far-off,
glassy look, as though the mind was dwelling on nothing;"

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON.

127

Opinion of the Court.

that "he was very much changed, and was very excitable-; he
looked different, and had a %ild expression; he staid a great
deal by himself when he came home from business; he would
go to his room and lie on his bed with his hat and overcoat on,
and not come out to his meals." The experts called for the
plaintiff testified that Ferguson was suffering from that kind of
unsoundness of mind which they termed melaieholia. There
was clearly some evidence of insanity for the jury, and the
question of its weight was for them, and not for the court.
Inurance Co. v. Rodel, 95 U. S. 232.
The remaining, and the most important; question in the case
is whether a self-killing by an insane person, having sufficient
mental capacity to understand the deadly nature and consequences of his act, but not its moral aspect and character, is a
death by suicide, within the meaning of the policy. This is
the very question that was presented to this court in 1872 in
the case of Iihfe In8. Co. v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580. At that time
there was a remarkable conflict of opinion in the courts of
England, in the courts of the several States, and in the circuit
courts of the United States, as to the true interpretation of
such a condition. All the authorities agrbed that the word6
"die by suicide," or "die by his own hand," did not cover every
possible case in which a man took his own life, and could not
be held to include the case of self-destruction in a blind frenzy
or under an overwhelming insane impulse. Some courts and
judges held that they included every case in which a man,
sane or insane, voluntarily took his own life. Others were of
opinion that any insane self-destruction was not within the
condition.*
* Borradailev. Hunter, 5 Man. & Gr. 689 ; 8.C. 5 Scott N. R. 418 ; Dormay v. Borrodaile, 10 Beav. 335 ; Schwabe v. Olift, 2 Car. &K. 184, and Clift
v. Schwabe, 3 C.B. 437; Stormont v. Waterloo .Tns. Co., 1 F. & F. 22 ; Dufaur
v. ProfessionalAss. Co., 25 Beav. 599, 602; Solicitors', &c.,
Assurance Society
v. Lamb, 1 Hem. & Mil. 716, and 2 D. G.J. & S. 251 ; Breasted v. Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co., 4 Hill, 73, and 8 N. '. 299; Deanv Amnerican Ins. Co.,
4 Allen, 96 ; Cooper v. Massachusetts Ins. Co., 102 Mass. 227 ; Eastabroo v.
Union Ins. Co., 54 Maine, 224; Gove v. Farmers' Is. Co., 48 N. H. 41 ; St.
Louis Ins. Co. v.Graves, 6 Bush, 268; Nimick v. 3lutual Benefit Ins. Co.,
10 Amer. Law Reg. (N. S.) 101; Gay v. Union Ins. Co., 9 Blatchf. C. C.

142 ; Terry v.Life Ins. Co., 1 Dillon, 403.

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

In Terrys Case (the trial of which in the circuit court before
Mr. Justice Miller and Judge Dillon is reported in 1 Dillon,
403) it was admitted that the person whose life was insured
died by poison, self-administered; and the insurance company
requested the court to instruct the jury, first, that if he destroyed his own life, and at the time of self-destruction had
sufficient capacity to understand the nature of the act which he
was about to commit, and the consequences which would result
from it, the plaintiff could not recover on the policy; and seeondly, that if the self-destruction was intended by him, he having sufficient capacity at the time to understand the nature of
the act which he was about to commit, and the consequences
which would result from it, it was wholly immaterial that he
was impelled thereto by insanity, which impaired his sense of
moral responsibility, and rendered him to a certain extent irresponsible for his action. 15 Wall. 581. The circuit court de,clined to give either of the instructions requested, and instructed
the jury in substantial accordance with the first of them only,
saying:
"It devolves on the plaintiff to prove such insanity on the part
of the decedent,,existing at the time he took the poison, as will
relieve the act of taking his own life from the effect which, by
the general terms used in the policy, self-destruction was to have,
namely, to avoid the policy. It is not every kind or degree of
insanity which will so far excuse the party taking his own life as
to make the company insuring liable. To do this, the act of selfdestruction must have been the consequence of the insanity, and
the mind of the decedent must have been so far deranged as to
have made him incapable of using a rational judgment in regard
to the act which he was committing. If he was impelled to the
act by an insane impulse, which the reason that was left him did
not enable him to resist, or if his reasoning powers were so far
overthrown by his mental condition that he could not exercise
his reasoning faculties on the act he was about to do, the company
is liable. On the other hand, there is no presumption of law,
p'rima~facieor otherwise, that self-destruction arises from insanity, and if you" believe from the evidence that the decedent,
although excited, or angry, or distressed in mind, formed the de-

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROUGHTON. -129
Opinion of the Court.
termination to take his own life, because, in the exercise of his
usual reasoning faculties, he preferred death to life, then the
company is not liable, because he died by his own hand within
the meaning of the policy." 15 Wall. 582.
The necessary effect of giving these instructions, after refusing to give the second instruction requested, was to rule that
if the deceased intentionally took his own life, having sufficient
mental capacity to understand the physical nature and consequences of his act, yet if he was impelled to the act by insanity,
which impaired his sense of moral responsibility, the company
was liable. That the ruling was so understood by this court is
apparent by the opening sentences of its opinion, on page 583,
as well as by its conclusion, which, after a review of the conflicting authorities on the subject, was announced in these
words:
""We hold the rule on the question before us to be this : If
the assured,'being in the possession of his ordinary reasoning
faculties, from anger, pride, jealousy, or a desire to escape from
the ills of life, intentionally takes his own life, the proviso
attaches, and there can be no recovery. If the death is caused
by the voluntary act of the assured, he knowing and intending
that his death shall be the result of his act, but when his reasoning faculties are so far impaired that he is not able to understand
the moral character, the general nature, consequences and effect
of the act he is about to commit, or when he is impelled thereto
by an insane impulse, which he has not the power to resist, such
death is not within the contemplation of the parties to the contraot, and the insurer is liable." pp. 590, 591.
In Insranme Company v. 1odel, 95 U. S. 232, the same rule
was expressly reaffirmed. In that case the circuit court declined to instruct the jury that the plaintiff could not recover
if the assured knew that' the act which he committed would
result in death, and deliberately did it for that purpose; and,
instead thereof, repeated to thb jury the instructions of the
circuit court in Te.ry's Case, and the conclusion of the opinion
of this court in that case, as above quoted. This court in affirming the judgment, said:
vOL. cIX- 9

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

"This charge is in the very words of the charge sanctioned
and approved by this-court in the case of LSre Insurance Cornpany v..Terry, 15 Wall. 580, including an explanatory clause of
the opinion of the court in that case. We see no reason to modify the views expressed by us on that occasion." 95 U. S. 241.
The policies in the cases of T&rry and of 1odel used the
words "die by his own hand," instead of which the policy before us has the words "die by suicide." But, for the purposes
of this contract, hs was observed in Tey'8 Case, 15 WalL 59 1,
the two expressions are equivalent.
In the present case, .the defendant requested the court to instruct the jury "that if Israel .Ferguson died by suicide, the
plaintiff cannot recover, unless he has proved to your satisfaction .that such act of self-estruction was 'not Ferguson's
voluntary and wilful act ; that he had not at the time sufficient
powbr of mind and reason to understand the physical nathre
and consequences of such act, anal did not have, at the time, a
purpose and intention tu-cause his own death by the act;"
"that unless the evidence established that Israel Ferguson did
not commit suicide consciously and voluntarily, the plaintiff
cannot recover;" and." that if he thus c6mmitted it, it is immaterial whether he was capable .of understanding its. moral
aspects, or of distinguishing between right and wrong."
The court declined to give these instructions, and read to the
jury the second instruction refused in Tery 8 Case, and the instructions given therein, as above quoted, and stated that the
refusal of the former and the giving of the latter had been
approved'by this court, and that its decision contained a full
exposition of the law, so far- as it was necessary to be understood for the purposes of this case, and laid down the rule
which would determine them in the application of the evidence
which had been introduced; ind further instructed them as
follows :
"Upon the part of the defendant, an argument based upon the
Peculiar circumstances surrounding the suicide has been addressed to you, which is deserving of consideration ; the various
circumstances, shorting premeditation, plan, thought, which, it is

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. BROTGHTON.

131

Opinion of the Court.
very fairly urged, afford quite *strongevidence that at the time
of his death'he was in the full possession of his mental faculties.
A serious question, gentlemen, which you will ask yourselves in
this case, it seems to me, is this : Had he, in view of his misfortunes, and of thle probable future that awaited him, deliberately
come to the conclusion that it was better to die than to live, and
did he in that view commit suicide; or was he so far mentally
unsound that he could not exercise a rational judgment upon the
question of life and death ? Did he become oblivious to the
duties which he owed to his family, .to his friends, and to himself ? Was he impelled by a morbid impulse which he had not
sufficient strength of will to resist, and acting -under the influence
of this insane impulse, did he determine to take his own life?
Because, if his reasoning faculties were so far impaired that -he
could not fairly estimate the moral consequences, the moral complexion of the act, even though he could reason sufficiently well
to prepare with great deliberation, and to execute his design with
success, nevertheless, within the authority which I have read, he
was so far insane that the plaintiff is entitled to recover on this
policy."
These instructions are in exact accordance with the adjudications in the cases of Trry and 1odel ; and upon consideration
we are unanimously of opinion that the rule so established is
sounder in principle, as well as simpler in application, than that
which makes the effect of the act of self-destruction, upon the
interests of those for whose benefit the policy was made, to
depend upon the very subtle and difficult question how far any
exercise of the will can be attributed to a man who is so unsound of mind that, while he foresees the physical consequences
which will directly remflt from his act, he cannot understand
its moral nature and character, or in any just sense be said to
know what it is that he is doing.
If a man's reason is so elouded or disturbed by insanity as to
prevent his understanding the real nature of his act, as regards
either its physical consequences or its moral aspect, the case
appears to us to come within the forcible words uttered by the
late Mr. Justice Nelson, when Chief Justice of 1ew York, in
the earliest American case upon the subject: "Speaking

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

legally also (and the ]olicy sh6uld be subjected to this test),
self-destruction by a fellow being bereft of reason can with no
-more-propriety be ascribed to his own hand than to the deadly
instrument that may have been. used for the purpose;" and,
-whether it was by drowning, or poisoning, or. hanging, or in
any other manner, "was n . more his act, in the sense of the
law, than if he had been impelled by irresistible physical
power." Bre.,sW v. Farmer' Ioan & Tet
Co., 4 Hill, 73, 75.

l EW EANv . ARTHU4, Collector.

IN ERROR

TO THE CIRUrr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR T

SOUTHERN DISTRIT OF NEW YORK
Argue4 October24th, 188.-Decded November 5th, 1888.

.ustom.s .uties-3.anufaoturew of Cotton-Stalutea.
1. The rule that where words- are used- in an act imposing duties upon
imports, which have acquired by commercial -use a meaning different
from their ordinary meaning, the latter may be controlled by the former,
Is not applicable when the language used in the statute is unequivocal.
2. The fact that at the date of the passage of an act imposing duties, goods
of a certain kind-had not been manufactured, does not withdraw them
from the class to which they belong, when the language of the statute
clearly and fairly includes them.

This action was brought to recover money alleged to have
been illegally exacted by the collector pf customs at the port
of New York, and paid under protest. There was a verdict
and judgment -in favor of the defendant below, to reverse
which this writ of error is prosecuted.
The importationi were -made in .1875, and consisted of cotton
goods, upon which the collector assessed a duty of five and a
half cents a square yard and twenty per centtUm ad valorem.
The plaintiff, at the time of the liquidation, claimed that the
goods were liable to a duty of only-thirty-five per cent. ad valorem as manufactures of cotton not otherwise provided for.
It was proven on the trial that goods like those in question

