CLEMENTS v. ODORLESS APPARATUS CO.

641

Opiniont of the Court.

CLEIMENTS v. ODORLESS EXCAVATING APPARATUS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE OCICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF 1ARYLAND.
Argued December 5th, 1883.-Decided January 7th 184.

.Patent.
Claims I and 3 of reissued letters patent No. 6,962, granted toLewis R. Kcizer,
February 29th, 1876, for an "improvement in apparatus for cleaning
privies" (the original patent, No. 115,565, having been granted, June 6th,
1871, to Henry C. Bull and Joseph- . Lowenstein, on the invention of said
Bull, and the application for the reissue having been filed January 11th,
1876), namely, "1. A privy-vault cleaning apparatus, consisting of an airpump, a deodorizer, and suitable tubular connections, in combination with
an independently movable receiving cask, having an induction passage or
opening, and also an air-opening for' connection with the air-pump, and
provided with screw-necks at each opening for receiving sealing caps or
covers, substantially as described, whereby the movable cask may be located
in any desired position with relation to the vault and privy, and the pump
and deodorizer located in any desired position with relation to the vault,
privy and cask, and also whereby the casks, when filled, may be handled
as is usual with filled casks, as set forth ;" "3. The combination, with a
portable night-soil cask, of a float-valve located at the air passage, substantially as described, whereby the fluid matter is prevented from entering the
air.passage and clogging the suction air-pipe.and pump, as set forth ;" are
invalid, because they are for inventions not indicated in the original patent as
inventions, being for sub-combinations in combinations claimed in the original, and were made for the purpose of covering features described in patents
issued to others during the interval between the granting of the original
and the application for the reissue.
Those features are contained in the defendant's apparatus, and that apparatus
does not infringe any claim in.the original patent.

-AfY. Hector T. Fenton for appellant.
2f'. Benjamin F. Price for appellee.
MR. JUSTIoE BLLTonOFRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity, brought for the infringement of reissued letters patent No. 6,962, granted to Lewis R. Keizer,
February 29th; 1876, for an "improvement in apparatus for
cleaning privies," the original patent, No. 115,565, having
vor. crx-41.

1642

OCTOBER TERM, 1889.
Opinion of the Court.

been granted, June 6th, 1871, to Henry 0. Bull and Joseph
Mf. lowenstein, on the invention of said Bull, and the application for the reissue having been filed January 11th, 1876.
The specification says:
"M y invention consists, mainly, in a sink-cleaning apparatus,
consisting of an-air-pump, a deodorizer, and suitable tubular connections, in combination with an independent or movable receivink cask, having an induction passage or opening, and also an airpassage for connecting with the air-pump, and provided with
stench- and water-tight covers for both passages, whereby the
movable cask may be located in any desired position with relation
to the vault, and the air-pump and the deodorizer properly located
with reference to the vault and cask, and also whereby the cask,
when fillkd, may be trundled on itsbilge or end, after the usual manner of handling casks or barrels. My invention consists, further,
in the combination with the cask, of a flanged opening, a detachable suction-pump or funnel connected with the flange of the opening, and a check-valve located within the cask for retaining the
offensive matter after passing through the valve. My invention
still further consists in the combination with the air-passage of a
night-soil cask, of a float-valve, whereby, when the cask is filled
with fluid matters, the valve will be floated and closed, thereby indicating that the cask is filled, and preventing the fluid matter from
entering the conducting-pipe and passing through the air-passage
to the air-pump, which would otherwise be liable to have its valves
clogged thereby and rendered inoperative. To more particularly
describe my invention, I will refet to the accompanying drawings,
in which Fig. 1 represents, in side view, a cask embodying several
features of my invention, located within a privy. Fig. 2 reptesents, in side view, an air-pump connected with the cask by a flexible tube or suction-hose, and provided with a deodorizer. Fig. 3
represents a privy-vault. Fig. 4 represents, on an enlarged scale
and in detail, in vertical central section, the cask shown in Fig. 1.
A vault is indicated at A. It is provided with the usual entrance
or opening, as at a. B denotes one of several casks or receptacles
which are employed in connection with an air-pump, as at C, for
removing the offensive matter from the vault. The cask B has
at one end a screw-neck, i, and thd check-valve d, which opens
inwardly. Said cask also has another screw-neck, as at, M, to

CLEMENTS v, ODORLESS APPARATUS CO.

643

Opinion of the Court.
which is attached the suction-hose which communicates with the
air-pump. Attached to this neck is also a float-valve, as at f,
which guards the entrance to the suction-tube or hose. The
spindle of the valvef is provided, in a well-known manner, with
guiding devices. The lower portion of the float-valve is provided with cork or other light material, whereby, when the

cask is filled with fluid matter, the valve will be floated and
effectually close the entrance to the suction air-pipe, preventing
the latter, as well as the pump, from being clogged by said matter. The cask is shown to be provided -ith shoulders A h,

OCTOBER TERM1, 1883.
Opinj a of the Court.

whereby the hoisting!cla ps L may readily be made to engage
with the cask. The indumtion-pip& 0 is secured to the proper
screw-neck on the cask, and it constitutes a tubular connection
with the cask, through which the offensive matter is conducted
from the vault into the cask In operation I proceed as follows :
After removing the seat or floor of the privy, uncovering the entrance to the vault, the cask B is suspended by a block and tackle
over the vault, connected by the suction-pipe to the air-pump,
and then lowered until the fuiel-pipe connection 0 (which is
temporarily screwed to the neck i-of the cask) is at its lower end
immersed -in the contents to be removed. The air is then
exhausted from the cask by means of the pump, and deodorized
by the furnace on the pump. The vacuum thus induced causes
the matter to be 'sucked through the funnel-pipe into the cask
until the float-valye is lifted and the air-passage closed. The
pump is then, stoppea and the valve d closes. The cask, being
wholly free from exterior contact with filth, is then lifted, the
funnel and suction-pipe removed, and the screW'caps V applied
to the necks i and AI, after which the cask is handled like any
filled cask, and rolled on its bilge or end." The reissue has 3
claims, as follows "1. A privy-vault cleaning apparatus, consisting of an air-pump, a deodorizer, and suitable tubular connections, in combination with an independently movable receivingcask, having an induction passage or opening, and also an airopening for connection with the air-pump, and provided with
screw-necks at each opening, for receiving sealing caps or
covers, substantially as" described, whereby the movable cask
may be located in any desired position with relation to the
vault and privy, and the pump and deodorizer located in
any desired position with relation to the vault, privy, and
cask, and also whereby the casks, when filled, may be handled
as is usual with filled casks, as set forth. 2. The combination
with a portable cask, having an induction aperture at one end, of
a check-valve, a screw-neqk surrounding the aperture, a funnelshaped pipe connected wiih the neck, and an air-eduction passage
provided with a scr'w-necok,' substantially as described. 3. The
combination, with a portable night-soil cask, of a float-valve located at the air-passage, substantially as des6ribed, whereby the
fluid matter is'prevente-d from entering the air-passage and clogging the suction air-pipe and pump, as set forth."

CLEMENTS v. ODORLESS APPARATUS CO.

645

Opinion of the Court.

The specification of the original patent was in these words,
the drawings attached to the original and the reissue being
alike:
"Figure 1 is a view in perspective of the cask or package,
showing the method of suspending and operating the same. Fig.
2 is a side elevation of the suction-pump and furnace. Fig. 3 is
a plan view of the vault. Fig. 4 is a vertical transverse section
of the cask or receptacle shown in Fig. 1. My invention relates
to an improvement in devices for cleaning or emptying privyvaults, whereby the night-soil therein contained may be removed
and utilized, and the disagreeable odors arising therefrom prevented. It consists of the vault A, receptacles or casks B, and,
the suction-pump with furnace C, constructed and operated as
shown and described. A, a cylindrical privy-vault, constructed
of metal or other suitable water-tight material, and provided with
the neck a and the flange b, which latter is designed as an auxiliary for holding it in a vertical position, as also for strengthening the same. B represents one of several casks or receptacles,
which are employed as adjuncts of the suction-pump C,for removing the fecal matter from the vault. It has located at its
lower extremity the funnel 0, which fits air-tight upon the neck
;, and the valve d, which opens upwardly ; and at its apex the
float-valve f is provided, which screws upon or is otherwise
caused to fit air-tight upon the neck I. The float-valvef consists
of the rod e located vertically in the tube g, the said rod being
guided by orifices provided in transverse bars in the upper and
lower ends thereof. The lower part of the float-valve is made of
cork or other light material, in order that, when the cask or receptacle becomes filled by the action of the suction-pump, it may
press against the orifice of the tube and thereby prevent the contents of the vault A from overflowing or extending beyond the
ca-k B. h h are shoulders rigidly attached to the cask B, and are
designed for clutching with the clamps L. V represents one of a
series of caps which are screwed upon the neck or necks of casks
B, when filled by the action of the suction-pump. The method
of operating my device is as follows: After removing the seat or
floor, the receptacle B is suspended from a block and tackle over
the opening, and the cask or receptacle B is then lowered into the
vault until the funnel 0 enters the fecal matter about ten inches,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
whereupon, by operating the suction-pump, the receptacle or cask
becomes filled with the feces until it reaches the fioat-valvef,
which presses against and closes the orifice of the tube leading to
the pump. The valve d then falls and prevents the escape of the
contents of the cask. In the mean time the air that is pumped out
of the receptacle B is forced into a furnace located over the
suction-pump, whereby the odor arising therefrom is destroyed.
When one receptacle is thus filled, the valvef is removed and the
cap V screwed thereon, whereupon the operation is repeated by
the employment of another cask until the vault is emptied of its
contents." The claims of the original patent are two in number, as
follows : ",1. The combination and arrangement of the funnel 0,
neck i, and valve d, with cask B, neck M, and float-valve f, subst4ntially as shown and describea. 2. The combination and arrangement of the vault A, cask B, and suction-pump C,substantially in the manner and for the purpose described."
Infringement of only claims I and 3 of the reissue is insisted
on. It is set up as a defence, in the answer, that the reissue is
not for the same invention as that described in the original
patent. The apparatus used by the defendant is constructed in
accordance with the description contained in two letters patent
--:one, No. 158,743, granted to Samuel R. Scharf, January
12th, 1875, for an, "improvement in machines for cleaning privyvaults;" the other, No. 179,993, granted to .Jerome Bradley
and Samuel R. Scharf, July 18th, 1876, for a "machine for
cleaning privy-vaults and like places." In that apparatus there
is an independently movable cask, having two necks in its upper
head, as it stands. The suction-pipe from the vault is screwed
to one neck, and the air-pipe, which leads to the pump, is
screwed to the other neck There is an air-pump, by means of
which a vacuum can be- formed and maintained in the cask,
and a deodorizer, through which the air drawn into the pump
is expelled by the working of. the pump. The suction-pipe and
the air-pipe are both of them tubular, flexible connections.
There are caps for closing the necks after the barrel is filled.
There is inside of the cask no check-valve, but there is a floatvaive, so arranged with reference to the opening of the air-

CLEMENTS v. ODORLESS APPARATUS CO.

647

Opinion of the Court.

pipe that the fecal matter lifts the valve and closes the passage
when the barrel is. sufficiently full.
It is quite apparent that the defendant's apparatus did not infringe either one of the 2 claims of the original patent. Claim 1
made the valve d in the bottom of the cask, opening to admit the
entrance of material, and shutting when the orifice to the pump
was closed by the float-valve, a necessary element in the combination covered by that claim. Without the valve d the peculiarly constructed cask of the patent could not be operated.
So, as to claim 2, there could be no operative combination of
vault, cask, and pump unless the cask should have the valve d,
and that valve was a part of the combination covered by claim
2. The valve d is not found in the defendant's apparatus, nor
is there any substitute or equivalent for it. The material is
taken into the barrel through its head as it stands on its bottom, and hence there is no need of a check-valve.
There is not in the specification of the original patent any
suggestion or indication of any invention other than the two
combinations severally claimed in the two claims. In the
reissue there are material enlargements of the scope of the
invention described and claimed in the original patent, and,
apparently, with a studied view to include and cover, by
descriptive words and by broader claims, an apparatus likethat
used by the defendant. If claim I of the reissue be construed
so as to exclude the check-valve from the combination covered
by that claim, no warrant is found in the original specification
for such a construction. It is apparent that the inventor contemplated the use of no other description of cask than one
having such a check-valve as the original specification describes.
If claim 1 of the reissue be construed so as to include only such
a cask as is described, that is, one with a check-valve, there is
no infringement of that claim.
Claim 3 of the reissue is for the combination of a float-valve
with a cask of some kind. Whether it be a cask with a checkvalve, or one without a check-valve, the claim is an expansion
of the invention beyond anything indicated in the original
specification as the invention. In claim 1 of the original patent
four other elements are made necessary, with the cask and the

OCTO-ER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

float-valve, to oonstitute the combination claimed. In claim 2
of the original, the cask and the pump cannot be combined, so
as to practically co-operate in working, unless the float-valve is
used. The original specification states that unless the floatvalve is used the contents of the vault will overflow or extend
beyond the cask. The specificatibn of the reissue states that,
in the absence of the float-valve, the fluid matter will enter the
air-pipe, and pass through it to the air-pump, and tend to clog
the air-pipe and the valves of the pump and render the latter
inoperative. It is, moreover, as true of claim 3 of the reissue
as it is of claim 1, that, if the cask of claim 3 be construed to
be a cask without a check-valve, there is no ground in the
original patent for such a construction; and that, if claim 3
includes no cask except one with a check-valve, it is not
infringed.
The original specification indicates nothing but a cask having
the entrance opening in its bottom, furnished with a checkvalve to open and shut such entrance automatically, the cask suspended vertically over the vault and lowered into it until the
funnel at the bottom is sufficiently immersed, the filling of the
cask in that position, and the raising it and emptying it. The
cask in the defendant's apparatus has the entrance opening in
its top, has no check-valve, is not suspended over or lowered
into the vault, is placed at a distance from the vault, and is
connected with the vault by a flexible pipe. The patent to
Schaxf, No. 158,743; granted January 12th, 1875, a year before
reissue No. 6,962 was applied for, shows an apparatus substantially the same as that used by the defendant. There is a
barrel or tank,,m the head of which, as it stands on its bottom,
there are two short metallic pipes. A flexible pipe extends
from one into the vault, and another flexible pipe extends from
the other to an air-pump. There is a deodorizer connected with
the air-pump by a third flexible pipe. The cask is filled by the
action of the air-pump in creating a vacuum in'it The foul air
passes through the cask and the pump into tle deodorizer.
The barrel and the air-pump are described as "independently
.movable about the vault," by reason of the flexibility of the
Dipes. The attempted expansion of the oiiginal Bull patent, to

CLEMENTS v. ODORLESS APPARATUS CO.

649

Opinion of the Court.

cover what is shown in the Scharf patent, is manifest. The
funnel 0 of the original patent is called, in the reissue, "an induction passage or opening." It is said, in the reissue, that
"the movable cask may be located in any desiredposition with
relation to the vault; " and that the operation may be performed "within or near the privy." In claim I of the reissue
it is stated that "the movable cask may be located in any desired position with relation to the vault and privy." The effort
was to obtain a reissue which should cover an apparatus having
the cask located at a distance from the vault, with a flexible
pipe from it to the vault, and a receiving opening in the top of
the cask, and no check-valve-all of them features -not-indicated in the original patent, but all of them features exi
g
in the Scharf patent granted after the original Bull patent and,
before the application for its reissue. The same observations
apply to the patent to Frazier, No. 168,473, granted October
5th, 1875, more than three months before reissue No. 6,962 was
applied for. That patent shows a portable receiving cask connected from its top, by a flexible pipe, with the vault, and .by
another flexible pipe with an air-pump, which has secured to it
a deodorizing vessel. The air is exhausted from the cask and
passes through the air-pump -into the deodorizer, and the contents of the vault rise into the cask. The cask has no check-,
valve, and is described as placed suitably near.the vault.
The foregoing state of facts brings this case within the principles laid down in .iller v. Brwas Co., 104 U. S. 350; and
Janzes v. C mrpbell, 104 U. S. 356. The suggested mistake in
the original patent, that its two claims were not as broad as
they might have been made, and that the combinations claimed
were too narrow and contained too many elements, and that
sub-combinations such as are found in claims 1 and 3 of th6-reissue might have been claimed in the original pateiViii view of
the state of the art and of the desc'iption and drawings of that
patent, was, if a mistake at all, one apparent on the first inspection of that patent. The expansions in claims 1--and 3 of.
the reissue were after-thoughts, developed by the subsequent
course of improvement in the Scharf- and Frazier patents, and
intended to cover matters appearing in those patents and not

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
claimed in the .original patent, No. 115,565. No excuse is
given for the delay in applying for the reissue, nor is any actual
inadvertence, accident, or mistake shown. The omission to
claim sub-combinations in the combinations claimed, the existence of such sub-combinations being apparent on the face of
the original patent, was, in law, on the facts in this case, such
a dedication of them, if new, to the public, that a reissue, to
cover such sub-combinations, in revocation of such dedication,
cannot be availed of to the prejudice of rights acquired by the
public to what is shown in the Scharf and Frazier patents,
issued before the reissue was applied for. The reissued patent
must, for these reasons, be held to be invalid, as to claims 1
and 3.
The circuit court made an interlocutory decree declaring the
validity of the reissue and its infringement and awarding a
perpetual injunction and an account of profits and damages.
By a final decree, a sum of money was awarded as damages.
From that decree the defendant has appealed. The result of
our consideration is, that
The decree must be 'eversed, and the case be remanded to the
(Y)'rcuit court, with direction to dismiss the bill.

JOHN JOSEPH ALBRIGHT & Others v. EMERY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued December 12th and 13th, 1883.-Decided January7th, 1884.

A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in general term,
affirmed, on the facts.

.rfr. A. S. Worthington for appellants.
.Xr. 7ohhn . Ross and 21r. S. S.'.fienkle for appellee.
delivered the opinion of the court.
In a suit in equity brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, by the firm of Langdon, Albright & Company, against Samuel Emery, Senior, and five other persons,
MR. JUSTICE BLATcHFOD

