OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

FAY and Others v. CORDESMA1N and Others.
APPEAL FR03E THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Aigued November 14th, 1883.-Decided December 3d, 1883.
.Patent.
Claim 4 of reissued letters patent No. 1527, granted to John Richards, August
15th, 1863, for a "guide and support for scroll-saws," the original patent,
No. 85,890, having been granted to him, May 25th, 1862, for an "improved
guide and support for scroll-saws," namely, "4 An anti-friction guide
which is adjustable so as to accommodate different thicknesses of sawblades, and to compensate for -wear, in combination with the upper portion
of a web saw-blade, substantially as set forth," does not cover an arrangement in which a band-saw is used, passing over wheels, and running constantly in one direction, towards the table on which the stuff lies, and
having a tension over the peripheries of the wheels.
Claim 1 of said reissue, namely, "5. The combination of the anti-friction sawsupport and guide, or the equivalent thereof, with an adjustable guard, or
its equivalent, substantially as and for the purpose set forth," is not infringed by an arrangement in which such a band-saw is used, and the
guard does not hold down the stuff against the upward lifting action of the
saw, because the saw is constantly passing downward.
The claim of letters patent No. 78,880, granted to J. A. Fay & Co., June 16tb,
1868, for an "improvement in guides for band-saws," on the invention of
John Lemman, namely, "The combination of the roller bwith fixed lateral
guides, c c c, one or more, arranged and operated substantially in the manner and for the purposes specified," is for the combination of an antifriction smooth faced wheel to support the back or thin edge of the saw,
and to have lateral adjustment, presenting different points to wear, with
the fixed guides, and is not infringed by an arrangement in which the
wheel has two grooves in it, in one of which the saw runs, and in the other
of which it can be made to run by lateral adjustment.
Claim I of letters patent No. 120,949, granted to J. A. Fay & Co., November
14th, 1871, for an "improvement in ba:nd-sawing machines," on the invention of William IL Donne and William P. McKee, namely, "1. The frame
A, A', A", in combination with the lower arbor-bearing, said frame being
construct6d as herein described, with a depression, A", permitting the
ready removal of the arbor, as explained," is not infringed by an arrangement in which the depression does not leave exposed a seat which is entirely
open upward and the arbor-bearing cannot be removed without detaching
the pulley from the arbor.
Claim 2, namely, "2. The arrangement of frame A A' A" A"', and of tho
horizontally and vertically adjustable arbor-bearing C, D, V, E, E', G, H,

FAY v. CORDESMAN.
Opinion of the Court.
A," is not infringed by an arrangement which does not have the frame and
depression of claim 1, or the elements D D', or the same or equivalent
means of adjusting such arbor-bearing either horizontally or vertically.
Claim 8, namely, "3. The arrangement of step or saddle k and its contained
box or bearing T L,' covers, as an element of the arrangement, among
other things, a spring which carries the weight of the saddle, and gives an
elastic tension to the saw, and is not infringed by an arrangement in which
there is a rigid saddle and no spring.
Claim 4, namely, "4. In combination with the upper arbor, L', the lower
arbor-bearing, E,,adjustable both vertically and horizontally, as shown and
described and for the purpose set forth," in not infringed by an arrangement which does not infringe claims 2 and 3.

Bill in equity for infringement of a patent.
M7r. Robert IT Parklnion for the appellants.
Mfr. E . Wood for the appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit in equity was brought for the infringement of three
several letters, patent. The first is reissue No. 1,527, granted to
John Richards, August 25th, 1863, for a "guide and support
for scroll-saws," the original patent, No. 35,390, having been
granted to him May 27th, 1862, for an "improved guide and
support for scroll-saws." The specification of the reissue is as
follows, including what is inside of brackets and what is outside of brackets, omitting what is in italic:
MR. JusTIC, BLATCHFORD

"To all whom it may concern: Be* it known that I, John
Richards, of Columbus, in the county of Franklin, and State of
Ohio, have invented a new and useful [method of guiding and supporting] combined guide, guard and supportfor scroll-saws ; and
I do hereby declare that the following is a full, clear and exact description of [one practical means of carrying out my invention]
the same, reference being had to the accompanying drawings
forming part of this specification, in which [Figure] Fig. 1 is a
perspective view of a portion of [a] the table and [a] the saw-blade
[of a ' scroll saw-mill,' with my invention applied to the same.]
and my improved upper combined guide, uard and support.
[Figure] 1yig. 2, a longitudinal se6tion of the same connected to
the suspended stud of the building. [Figure] _Fg. 3 is a horizontal section [through the guide and support.] in the line x x, of

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
Nig. 2. [The same] Similar letters of reference [where used]
in [different] the several figures indicate corresponding parts.
[It has long been. a desideratum to obtain a scroll saw-mill which
will work successfully while the upper end of the saw blade is
left free from a sash or upper, straining device; and this has
never been attained until the development] The nature of my
invention [which] uncler thispatent consists, [1st, in working the
saw at a point above the table in a groove which is enclosed by
anti-friction material, such as steel, polished iron, or glass, or any
other known and suitable metal or substance, the upper end of
the saw being disconnected from any upper suspender or sash,
but supported and guided at its back edges and at its sides or
broad faces, and its lower end connected to any mechanical device that will produce the desired motion in the saw. It consists,
2d, in an adjustable guide and support whereby different thicknesses of scroll or web saw may be used at will. It consists, 3d,
in attaching the anti-friction guide and support to an adjustable
device which constitutes a guard to hold down the stuff being
sawed, and also insures a support of the saw at the point near
where the sawing is performed as well as above this point. My
principle of operating a scroll or web saw must not be confounded
with the 'muley saw,' as in the 'muley saw' it is common to
employ guides attached to the saw, such guides running in or
upon bearings independent of the saw plate, whereas with the
web or scroll saw worked according to my discovery, the back
of the blade or plate is supported upon a hardened steel or other
durable anti-friction surface, and is guided laterally by similar
surfaces, so that the saw is supported and guided without any
means of tension being employed. Furthermore, ' muley' saws
are supported at each end by cross-heads, and only in the centre
by lateral guides; and a saw must be employed that is strong
enough in its cross-section to stand the work. Now, with my
plan, I support the saw down to the top of the wood being sawed,
which is a new thing in this class of saw-mills, and enables me
to use small, light saw blades. Previously to my discovery of
running the upper end of the web or scroll-saw in frictional contact with an upper guide, it was deemed an impracticable thing,
and it is now, only by practical demonstration and long use that
saw-mill men are convinced that such method of working scroll
or web-saws will not cut through and rapidly wear out the guide.

FAY v. CORDESMAN.
Opinion of the Court.
The non-destruction of the guide in a short period of time, although the pressure upon it is immense, is due to the fact of the
guide being of hardened steel or other smooth, hard material,
over which the saw-plate glides with but little frictional wear.]
in the guide and back supporting bars or plates in connection with
the sliding guard, the same constituting a combined guide, guard
.andsupport.forthe free or disconnected upperportions of d scrollsaw blade. To enable others skilled in the art to make and use
my invention, I will proceed to describe [one practical means in
which I have embodied it with great success; but, in doing so,
I do not wish to be understood as limiting myself to these mechanical devices in theinselves, as the principle may be embodied
in various other means and still not depart from the discovery
embodied in machinery that I desire to patent.] its construction
and operation with reference to the drawings. [Not using] I do
not use a sash [or] nor other means of straining the saw S, [I]
but fasten the lower end of the [blade] same to the upper end of
a stock or slide, S', of [a] the pitman, by a set screw, S', or [I may
otherwise connect this end of the blade to a device which will
properly operate the saw. The] in any other similar manner,
and have its top or upper [end of the saw] portion disconnected
above the table [T,] T. [I leave entirely disconnected, but in
order to steady or guide and support this free end during the sawing operation, I attach a grooved steel guide to a] The saidupper
portion of the saw is supported and guided by means of the two
parallelbars a a, and the angularplate b. The barshave a lateral
adjustment to accommodate saws of diferent thicknesses, their purpose being to keep the saw in a true vertical line, and to keep itfromn
twisting, while the offiee of the back plate, b b', is to support the saw
against the strain of the stuff on the teeth, when the work is being
shovedagainstit. The guides a a, and back plate b b', are all made
of hardenedsteel, to prevent friction andwear. This device a a b b'
is fastened to the lower end of the sliding strip or guardpieceA,
[other device which will answer as a firm support to the guide, and
as a guard to keep down the lumber being sawed. The device A is
attached to a] which is fitted in a grove of a suspended stud [or
timber] B, of the building, [and is better if made adjustable by
means of a slot and clamp-bolt, such as designated by the letters
e c d; but other known means for adjusting this device may be
adopted. The guide, as shown, is formed of three parts, to wit,

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

a black plate, b, and two side plates a, a, which latter are bolted
or screWed firmly to the former, as shown. The slots S through
which the boltsff pass are large enough to allow the plates a a
a slight lateral adjustment whenever it is desired to use a saw
with a greater thickness or a thinner saw. The same end, viz.,
the formation of a steel guide, or a guide of hard anti-friction
surface, would be attained if a groove was formed in a thick steel
plate, or other hard substance, except the advantage of accommodating saws of various thicknesses. I believe I am the first to
use the grooved anti-friotion guide, as well as the first to have the
groove variable in width, and, therefore, I do not confine myself
to adjustable guides andsupports. The office of the back part of
'the groove or guide is to support the saw against the strain of the
timber on the teeth when the work is being shoved against it,
while the office of the lateral portions of the groove or guide is to
keep the saw in a true vertical line and prevent it from twisting.
The office of the guard A, which extends down nearly to the top
of the table, is to hold down or prevent flying up of the ' stuff'
or timber being sawed, and At the same time bring the supporting guide to the saw right down to the place where the sawing
is being performed, and thus insure the most perfect operation
as well as an effectual supporting and guiding of the saw.] and
con/ined accordingly,as the thickness of stuff being sawed requires,
by means of a clamping screw-bolt, c, and hand-nut, d. Te bolt
passes loosely through an oblong slot, e, of the guard-strip,but
fastensfirmly in the stud B, as shown. This guard rests in close
contact, or nearly so, with the stuff being sawed, and keep8 the
same firmly down upon the table, while the device a a and b b'
guides and supports the saw, as above stated. It will be seen that
screw-bolts,ff, confine theplate b and bars to the strip or guard
A, and that the holes or slots through the bars a are elongated so
as to allow the guide-bars a a chance to move nearer together or
furtler apart,to admit different thicknesses of saw blade. It will
also be seen that the guides, by being attached to the strip, are adjusted with it up and down, the said up and down adjustment
being allowed by the slot e" of the strip; and thus the angular
part b of the plate b aids also in hoQding down the stuf, it having
a vertical kerf, g, cut in it, to admit the saw blade, and the guide
and supportingplates or bars are always in properposition. This
[guard by its] arrangement also obviates the [heretofore] neces-

FAY v. CORDESMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

sity of leaving the upper end of the saw blade above the table
unsupported and unguided, as it allows of the work or [timber]
stuff being freely turned while the sawing is progressing, a clear
open space between the guard and the table being left. [In the
,drawing I have shown the lower end of the guide forming an
angle ; this is to give a larger guard surface. This angular portion has a kerf, g, cut in it, to admit the saw plate to the back of
the guide. t, however, do not limit myself to this form of
guide.] T7e plate b might be made without the angularpart ',
but not answer so good a purpose. I do not claim operating a
8croll-saw without straining,nor do I claim the applicationof
lateralguides to saws; ;neither do I clah an adjustable guardto
prevent the stuj'risingwith tha saw."
Reading, in the foregoing, what is outside of brackets, including what is in italic, ahd omitting what is inside of brackets, gives the text of the original specification. The original
patent contained one claim, as follows:
" The guido bars, a a, and the back plate b, in connection with
the sliding guard-strip A, the same constituting a combined
guide; guard and support for the -top of a scroll-saw, and operating substantially as herein described."
The reissue contains -five claims, as follows:
"1. Running the upper portion of a web or scroll-saw above
the table, in a groove of an anti-fricti6n guide and support, substantially as and for the purpose described. - 2. Operating practically an unstrained web or scroll-saw, by combining with such
saw-mills an upper anti-friction guide, which supports the back
of the sa--blade, and also sustains the saw-blade at its sides or
faces, substantially as set forth. 3. The use of anti-friction
guides as a substitute for straining devices, in combination with
web or scroll saw-blades, the guide to be raised and lowered to
suit the thickness of the stuff, substantially as set forth. 4. An
anti-friction guide which is adjustable so as to accommodate different thicknesses'of saw blades, and to compensate for wear, in
combination with the upper portion of a'web-saw blade, substantially as set forth. 5. The combination of the anti-friction saw
support and guide, or the equivalent thereof, with an adjustable

OCTOBER TERM, 1883
Opinion of tho Court.

guard, or its equivalent, substantially as and for the purpose set
forth."
Infringement of only claims 4 and 5 of the reissue is alleged.
It is apparent, in reading the specification of the original patent
and that of the reissue, -that Richards contemplated the use of
his improvements only in connection with a saw-blade the upper end of which was free from any suspender or sash, and the
lower end of which was so connected with mechanism as to
obtain the desired motion in the saw. Claim 4 of the reissue
claims, as an element in the combination covered by that claim,
"the upper portion of aweb saw-blade." The saw-blade shown
in the drawings, and the only- saw-blade which can have an
upper portion capable of being free or disconnected, in the sense
in which those words are used, is a reciprocating saw-blade,
actuated from below, and alternately.pushed and pulled. The
specification of the reissue statesthat Richards' saw is supported
and guided "without any means of tension being employed."
The defendants use a band saw, which is an endlesssaw, passing over the wheels, and running constantly in one direction,
towards the table on which the stuff lies, and having a tension
over the peripheries of the wheels. For this reason, the defendants do not need, nor do they have any-guard which performs
the function of the guard embraced as an element in the combination covered by claim 5 of the reissue, of holding down the
stuff against the upward lifting action of the saw, because the
saw is constantly passing downward. There is, therefore, no
infringement of either claim 4 or claim 5.
The second patent sued on is No. 78,880, granted to X. A.
Fay & Co., June 16th, 1868, for an "improvement in guides for
band-saws," on the invention of John Lemman. The specification says :

"Figure 1 is a front elevation of one of my improved guides;
Figure 2 is a side elevation of the same ; Figure 3 is an elevation
of the anti-friction roller 6, removed from the guide ; and Figure
4 is a partial plan, showing the manner of adjusting the lateral
guides. Similar letters of reference in the different figures indicate corresponding parts. In operating endless saws, guides are

FAY v. CORDESMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

needed both above and below the wood. As is well known, the
high speed at which these saws are driven, and the small amount
of surface presented to the guide from the edge of the saw plate,
cause fixed guides to wear away very fast, even if made of hardened steel or glass, particularly when heavy sawing is done,
and the strain of the feed falls on the saw. Rolling guides, while
they have partially overcome the difficulty of friction and wear
on the back of the saw, cannot be constructed to give a proper
lateral support to the saw, as will hereafter be alluded to. The
object of the invention here illustrated is to obviate these several
difficulties, and give important advantages in operating saws of
this kind. Its nature onsists of a combination of anti-friction
rollers and fixed guides, the first to support the back or thin edge
of the saw, and to have lateral adjustment, presenting different
points to wear; the fixed guides as a lateral support, and so constructed as to accomnmodate saws of different widths, as hereinafter explained. To enable others skilled in the art to make and
use my invention, I will proceed fo describe its mode of construction and the manner of operating the same, with the aid of the
drawings. a is a frame or support for the guides. It is cored out
to receive the wheel b, with room for lateral adjustment. On
the top is a cylindrical extension, h , intended to be connected to
a bar, on which the whole structure is adjusted up and down, to
suit the thickness of the wood being sawed. b is an anti-friction
wheel, of hardened steel or other suitable material, mounted on
an axis, f, as shown in Fig. 3, and by red lines in Fig. 1. This
axis has conical bearings formed in the piece g, which allows of
compensation for wear; and by loosening the screws s s, the wheel
b and bearings g g can be adjusted laterally, so as to bring different points of the periphery of wheel b in contact with the saw.
Se e are lateral guides to keep the saw from turning and in a true
line. These guides are so arranged that two or more of them can be
used and the others removed or adjusted to receive a narrow saw, as
shown in Fig. 4. The holes through which the screws d d pass are
slotted, as shown by red lines, Fig. 1. E is a section of a band-saw,
sufficiently wide to allow of all the plates, c c c, being used. The
wheel b is so arranged as to barely pass through the plate m, and
come in contact with the saw E. Oil-holes are formed at i i,
Fig. 1, communicating with the bearings of axis f, as shown in
Fig. 1. The operation will be readily understood. Having thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

explained the nature and objects of my invention, I do not claim
the use of an anti-friction roller applied to the back of the saw;
neither do I claim the fixed lateral guides." There is only one
claim in these words: "The combination of the roller b with
fixed lateral guides, c c c, one or more arranged and operating
substantially in the manner and for the purpose specified."
This patent stands on very narrow ground. Anti-friction
rollers applied to the back of the saw are disclaimed and were
old. Fixed lateral guides, for the, faces of the saw, are disclaimed and were old. The text of the specification limits the
invention to a combination of an anti-friction wheel to support
the back or thin edge of the saw, and to have lateral adjustment, presenting different points to wear, with fixed guides to
support laterally, the faces of the saw, the fixed guides being so
constructed as to accommodate saws of different widths. The
anti-friction wheel, by means of its conical bearings, can
be advanced nearer, as it wears, to the back edge of
the saw, and the wheel and its bearings are capable of being adjusted laterally, so as to bring different points of the
periphery of the wheel in contact with the back edge of
the saw. The arrangement of fixed guides referred to is manifestly that described in the Richards patent. The only point
of invention dwelt on in the Lemman specification is the
lateral adjustability of the wheel, which, though it is to be an
anti-friction wheel, and so is to be made of hardened steel or
other suitable material, will still wear away on the surface presented to the edge of the saw; and the lateral adjustment enables different points of the periphery of the wheel to be
brought into contact with the saw, so as to present different
points to wear from time to time. Thus the entire width of
the periphery of a wheel may be utilized. The defendants
have used a wheel which has two grooves in it, in one of
which the saw runs and in either of which it can run. The
wheel can be adjusted laterally, so as to bring the one or the
other of the two grooves into use. But there is no adjustment
to bring different points of the periphery of a smooth-faced
wheel into use. In view of the state of the art, and of the

FAY v. CORDESMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

limitations of the specification, there has been no infringement.
Merely adjusting a wheel laterally so as to give it different
positions at different times was a thing well known to mechanics ; and running the back edge of a saw in a groove in a
roller existed in the prior Olosterman device.
The third patent sued on is No. 120,949, granted to J. A.
Fay & Co., November 14th, 1871, for an "improvement in
band-sawing machines," on the invention of William I. Doane
and William P. McKee. Claims 1, 9, 3, and 4 of this patent
are alleged to have been infringed, there being seven claims.
The specification, so far as it is material to be cited, says:
"The first part of our invention relates to an improved form of
supporting frame and of the upper and lower arbor-bearings,
whereby the said bearings, with their inclosed arbors, are made
easily accessible and removable for inspection and repair, and relatively adjustable, so as to be brought into exact line, iud otherwise so regulated as to insure the perfect operation of the saw, as
Figure 1 is a perspective view of
hereinafter explained. . .
a machine embodying our improvements. Figure 2 is a vertical
section of the machine in the plane of its arbors. . . . Figure 5 is a plan of the lower arbor-bearing. The frame which
supports the operative parts of our machine consists of a single
casting of the peculiar form here represented, that is to say,
a base, A, from whose rear end there rises the miin column or
standard A! (supporting the upper arb6r-bearing and saw guide),
and from whose front end there rises a shorter column or pedestal,
A", which latter supports and is surmounted by the bench or table
B, on which the stuff rests. The depression which intervenes between the columns A and A" leaves exposed a seat, which extends
below the centre of the lower arbor and is entirely open upward,
which seat forms an accessible and convenient place for the attachment, inspection, and regulation, and, when necessary, the ready
detachment, of the lower arbor-bearing, which bearing is constructed as follows : Bolted or otherwise securely fastened to the
top of base A is a pillow-block, C, having vertical flanges c e.
The flanges c c1 are traversed near their front end by two co-axial
horizontal bolts D DI, which, entering orifices in the box or bearing E El of the lower pulley-arbor F, constitute a pivoted fastenVoL.-cix-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

ing for the said bearing. ' A set-screw, G, tapped in the bottom of
the pedestal C, and pressing upwards against the box E El, enables its adjustment and retention to horizontality, or such approximation thereto as may be desired. Other set-screws, H H1,passing
horizontally through the flanges c c, near their rear end, enable
the adjustment and retention of said box to a common vertical
plane with the upper arbor. The end of the lower arbor most remote from the' pulley I carries the driving-pulley J. It will be
seen that, on the loosening of fou screws, the entire lower arbor
and journal-box, may be lifted bodily upward and detached from
the. machine, without detaching the pulley from the arbor. The
upper part of the standard Al is curved forward, as represented,
and has a slot, a, to hold and guide to a vertical path a step or saddle, K, to which is pivoted a lug, 1,that depends rigidly from
the upper arbor-bearing L Ll. The saddle K has a horizontal
extension, c,which bears on the point of a screw, M, occupying a nut, T, that rests on a spring or cushion, 0; in the bottom of the slot a. The screw M. being "turned to the right
or left elevates or depresses the upper arbor-bearing, and
in so doing, causes the proper tension to be imparted to the saw.
Another screw, N, that is tapped in the lug , bears against the
face of the saddle K, and enables the regulation, or angular adjustment, in a vertical plane, of the upper arbor-bearing. The abovedescribed capacity for angular adjustment of the band-pulley arbors
in their common plane enables the operator to confine the path of
the saw nicely to the middle of the pulleys, or to shift it more or
less toward the front or back portions of their peripheries, so as to
cause all parts to be equally worn. The spring 0, while co-acting
with the screw N to preserve the proper tension of the saw, also
imparts an elastic and yielding quality to the tension.
While preferring the described relative positions of the pivot-screws
D D', and latterally adjusting screws H 1 .,we do not confine ourselves thereto, as the pivot-screws may be situated near the rear
and the adjusting screws near the front portion of the box." The
first six claims are as follQws : "1. The frame A A' A", in combination with the lower arbor-bearing, said frame being constructed
as herein described with a depression, A"', permitting the ready
removal of the arbor, as explained. 2. The arrangement of frame
A A' A" A"', and of the horizontally and vertically adjustable
arbor-bearing C D DI E El G H A. 3. The arrangement of step

FAY v. CORDE$MAT.
Opinion of the Court.

or saddle K and its contained box or bearing L L. 4. In combination with the upper arbor L' the lower arbor-bearing E, adjustable both vertically and horizontally, as shown and described and
for the purpose set forth. 5. In combination with the lower
arbor, the upper arbor-bearing, adjustable in a vertical plane by
means of the screw M, nut T, and spring 0, as and for the purpose
designated. 6. The combination of the slotted standard A' a, saddle K k, arbor-bearing L L 1, nut*T, screws 21N, and spring or
cushion 0, as shown and described, for the purpose set forth."
As to claim 1,-it is for a combination of the three-sided frame
AA' A" with the lower arbor-bearing, when the frame is constructed with a depression, A.'., intervening between the columns A' and A", which leaves exposed a seat which is entirely
open upward, so as to give convenient access to the lower
arbor-bearing, to attach, inspect, and regulate it, and also detach it, with its journal-box, by lifting the arbor and journalbox bodily upward, without removing the pulley from the
arbor. In the defendants' machine the seat is iot entirely open
upward, and there is a hole through the body of the frame to
receive the lower arbor-bearing, and the arbor-bearing cannot
be removed without detaching the pulleyfrom the arbor. This
claim is not infringed.
As to claim 2, it is for the arrangement and combination of
the three-sided frame A A A" and the depression A!" with the
horizontally and vertically adjustable arbor-bearing, consisting
of the pillow block or pedestal 0, the two co-axial horizontal
bolts, D D', the box or bearing E E', the vertical set screw G
which adjusts the box E E' to horizontality, the horizontal set
screw HI which adjusts the box E E' to a common vertical plane
with the upper arbor, and the base A which carries the pillow
block or pedestal C. All these features in combination are
made necessary in claim 2. It claims a combination of the
frame and dpression of claim 1 with the special construction
of arbor-bearing set forth. The defendants do not have the
frame and depression of claim 1, as already showni, and thus do
not have that element of the combination covered by claim' 2.
lMoreover, the co-axial bolts D D' are a necessary feature of the
peculiar arbor-bearing of the patent, and no such bolts are

OCTOBER TERM, 1888.
Opinion of the Court.

found in the defendants' machine; and, if it has any means of
adjusting the lower arbor-bearing, either horizontally or vertically, in the sense in which such adjustment is described in the
patent, it has not the same means or equivalent means to what
is found in the patent.
As to claim 3, it is for the arrangement of the step or saddle
-K with the upper arbor-bearing L L' contained in it. What is
the arrangement of the step or saddle K in connection with the
arbor-bearing? The saddle moves through vertical slide-ways
and it has pivoted to it a lug, 1, which depends rigidly from the
'arbor-bearing. A screw N tapped into the lug I bears against
the face of the saddle, so as to allow of the adjustment in a
vertical plane of the upper arbor-bearing. The saddle has also
a horizontal extension, k, which bears on the 'point of a screw,
M, occupying a nut, T, which rests on a spring or cushion, 0,
in the bottom of. the slot. By turning the screw If to the
right or the left the upper -arbor-bearing is 'elevated or depressed, and thus more or less tension is given to the saw. The
spring'0 gives an elastic character to the tension. The effect
of the arrangement or combination is to give an elastic vertical adjustment and also a horizontal adjustment. The whole
object of the saddle witlh the lug I and the extension k is to
adjust the arbor-bearing up and down and sidewise and at the
same time give an elastic tension to the saw. The spring
carries the weight of the saddle. There can be no operative'
arrangement of the saddle with the arbor-bearing which does
not include the lug 1,the screw N, the extension L',the screw
X, the nut T, and the spring 0. These are all elements in the
arrangement or combination covered by claim 3. The spring
is esseiitial in the patent, as a part of claim 2. The defendants
have a rigid saddle, and no spring. The fact that the spring is
an element in claims 5 and: 6- does uot prevent its being an
.element in claim 3.
There being no inhingements of claims 2 and 3 there is none
of claim 4.
The claims of the patents sued on in this case are claims for
combinations. In such a claim, if the patentee specifies any
element as entering into the combination, either directly by

FEIBELiIAN v. PACKARD.
Statement of Facts.

the language of the claim, or by such a reference to the
descriptive part of the specification as carries such element into
the claim, he makes such element material to the combination,
and the court cannot declare it to be immaterial. It is his
province to make his own claim and his privilege to restrict it.
If it be a claim to a combination, and be restricted to specified
elements, all must be regarded as material, leaving open only
the question whether an omitted part is supplied by an equivalent device or instrumentality. later.3eter Company v. Desper, 101 U. S. 332; Gage v. Herring, 107 U. S. 640.
[The circuit court decreed a diw.miswal of the bull, and the
.plaint;ff]1aving appealed, the decree isajrmed.

FEIBELMAN v. PACIKARD and Another.
IN ERROR TO T E CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.

Subrdttcd November 8th, 188.-Decided December3d, 1883.
Bankruptcy-Confliet of Laws-Removal of Causes.
1. An action against a marshal of the United States for seizing a stock of goods
more than $5i00 in value, under authority of a writ from a district
court of the United States in proceedings in bankruptcy, the suit being
on his official bond, and the suretieg therein being joined as codefendants, is a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, which may be removed from the State courts to the
federal courts.
2. A district court of the United States sitting in bankruptcy has jurisdiction
to order the seizure and detention of goods, the property of the bankrupt,
although in possession of ar~ther under claim of title. The officer, in a
subsequent action against him for obedience to that order, may justify by
proof that the title to the property at the time of seizure was in the bankrupt. If the local State laws are in conflict with this right, they will
not be regarded as having any application to it. Share v. Doyle, 102
U. S. 680, approved and followed.

Suit against a United States marshal and his sureties on his
official bond to recover for an alleged illegal seizure of goods:
The action was originally brought by Nathan Feibelman,

