OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

EX PARTE PENNSYLVANIAAPPLICATION FOR A WmVT OF PROHIBITION.
SubmitteddOctober 15th, 1883.-Decided November 5th, 1883.
A2I~eal-uri8dstion--Practice-Writ of Prohiition.

1. The District Court of the U. S. for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has
jurisdiction over the claim of a pilot appointed under the laws of Delaware
for fees when the vessel is seized within the jurisdiction of the court, and
properly brought before it.
2. Where the evident purpose of an application for a writ of prohibition is
the correction of a supposed error in a judgment on the merits, the court
will nqt grant the writ.

The State of Pennsylvania by the act of 8th Tune, 1881,
sec. 5, enacted that every vessel which is not spoken by a pilot
outside of a straight ling drawn between the capes of the Delaware shall be "exempt from the duty of taking a pilot on her
voyage inwarxd to the port of Philadelphia, and the vessel, as
well as her master, owner, agent, or consignee, shall be exempt
fr6m the duty of paying pilotage, or half pilotage, .or any
penalty whatsoever, in case of her neglect or refusal so to do."
The State of Delaware, by the act of 5th April, 1881, made it
compulsory upon every vessel, except such. as are solely coal
laden, "passing in or out of the Delawaxe Bay by the way of
Cape Henlopen," to receive a pilot. The vessel in this case did
pass in by the way of Calie.Henlopen, and was spoken by a Delaware pilot after she had entered the Capes. A Delaware pilot
tendered his-services to the incoming vessel within the exempted
district bound for Philadelphia. The -services being refused, the
vessel was libelled in the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to recover the legal fees for
them. The claim was resisted on the ground that the court had
no jilrisdiction. The cour allowed the claim, whereupon the
attorney-general of the State of Pennsylvania applied to this
court for a writ of prohibition to the court below, directing it
to refrain from any further proceedings in the case.

EX PARTE PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Z. C. C"8idy, Attorney-General of Pennsylvania, Mr.
Mr. 1. G. Ward and X. X. P. lenry in support of the suggestion.
1. The writ of prohibition is the proper remedy. A court
may act beyond its jurisdiction in taking cognizance of a particular cause of action, although within its general jurisdiction.
When it clearly appears that the court below has exceeded its
proper powers, this complete remedy is the proper one. The
brief cites and discusses Quimbo A4po v. The People, 20 N. Y.
531; State v. Ridgell, 2 Bailey, 560; E p arte Gordo , 104
U. S. 515; Exparte FNerry Co., 104 U. S. 519; Extarte Hagar,
104 U. S. 520; The Caskieh,L. R. 8 Q. R. D. 197; United States
v. Peters, 3 Dall. 121; Ex pare Easton,'95 U. S. 68; .Devoe
Manufacturing Company, 16S U. S.
2. The State of Delaware has no power to impose compulsory pilotage on vessels bound to Pennsylvania ports. Pilotage is a port regulation. A vessel is only subject to the pilotage laws of the port to which it is bound. Cooley v. Board of
WFardens, 12 How. 299; (gons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Smith v.
Condry, 1 How. 28 ; /Y7 Mina, 7 Wall 53; The AnnaToliq,
Lush. 295.
Mr. Thoma8 F. Bayard,-Mr. Curtis Tilton, and -Mr. Henry
.Flanders, against the suggestion, cited Wison v. tcNamee,
102 U. S. 572; Rev. St. §§ 4235, 4236; The Clymene, 9 Fed.
Rep. 164; Y7ie Clymene, 12 Fed. Rep. 346; The Alzena, 14
Fed.-Rep. 174; Flanigenv. Tashington ZA8. Co., 7 Barr, 306;
Cooley v. The Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 312; Steamrh p
Co. v. olfe, 2 Wall. 450, 457; Er 2arte .AhNeil, 13 Wall.
236, 342 ;"and the cases from 104 U. S. cited on the other side.

M

n.
Onr
TUSTicE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to distinguish this case in principle from
Exparte Hagar, 104 U. S. 520, where it was held -on the
authority of Ex parte Gordon, id. 515, that as the admiralty
court had jurisdiction of the vessel sued, and the subject-matter
of the suit, it could not be restrained by &writ of prohibition
from deciding all questions properly arising in that suit. This,
like that, is a suit for pilotage fees, and the question is, whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

a statute of Delaware, under which the fees are claimed, is
valia. If valid in Delaware it is in Pennsylvania, and the
court sitting in Pennsylvania is as cdmpetent to decide that
question in a suit of which it has jurisdiction, as a court in
Delaware. The jurisdiction of the court in Pennsylvania is no
more dependent on the validity of the law than was that of the
court in Delaware. The subject-matter of the suit is a claim
of a Delaware pilot for his pilotage fees under a Delaware
statute, and the sole question in the case is, whether the fees
are recoverable. The vessel when seized was confessedly
within the jurisdiction of the court in Pennsylvania, and she
was properly brought into court to answer the claim which
was made upon her. About that there is no dispute, as there
was at the last term in -Devoe .ManfacturingCompany, 108.
UT. S., where the question was as to the right of the court in
New Jersey to send its process to the place where the seizure
Was made. There the question was as to the jurisdiction of
the court, over a particular place; here as to the liability of a
vessel confessedly seized within the territorial jurisdiction of
the court upon a claim subject to judicial determination in an
admiralty proceeding. The evident purpose of this application
is to correct a supposed error in a judgment of an admiralty
court on the merits of an action. That cannot be done by
prohibition. The remedy, if any, is by appeal. If an appeal
will not lie, then the parties are concluded by what has been
done. Congress alone has the power to, determine whether
the judgment of 'a court of the United States, of competent
jurisdiction, shall be reviewed or not. If it fails to provide for
such a review, the judgment stands as the judgment of the
court of last resort, and settle.- finally the rights of the parties
which are involved.
.7&petition' di&Mi88ed.

