UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Statement of Facts.

which the United States are. concerned, which also involve or
affect some matter of general public interest. Even these can
not be advanced except in the discretion of the court and on
the motion of the attorney-general.
The questions involved may be of public importance, but
that does not necessarily entitle the parties to a hearing in
preference to others. Practically, every case advanced postpones another that has been on the docket three -years awaiting
its turn in the regular call. Under these circumstances we
deem it our duty not to take up a case out of its order except
for imperative reasons.
Afotion denied.

UNITED STATES v. GALE & Another.
ON

CERTIFICATE OF DIVISION

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UINITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Subnitted November 9th, 1882.-Decided October 15th, 18S3.

Constitution-Criminal Law-Elections-Fraudulent .2egistration-G-rand

Jury-Practice-eviedStatutes.
1. The court adheres to the rulings in Ex paite Siebold, 100 U. S. 371, and
Ex parte Clarke, 100 U. S. 399, that §§ 5512 and 5515 Rev. St. relating
to violations of duty by officers of elections are not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and holds them to be valid.
2. Where a defendant pleads not guilty to an indictment, and goes to trial
without making objection to the mode of selecting the grand jury, the
objection is waived ; even though a law unconstitutional, or assumed to
be unconstitutional, may be followed in making the panel.
8. An objection to the qualification of grand jurors, or to the mode of summoning or empanelling them, must be made by a motion to quash, or by
a plea in abatement, before pleading in bar.

Indictment against inspector and clerk of Election District
No. 8, Northern District of Florida, for removal of ballots cast
by electors at an election for representative in Congress, and
substitution of different ballots. 3r.Solictor-GeneralPillips
for the plaintiffs. No appearance for defendants.
"OL. cIX-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

My. JusTicE

BRADLEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The indictment against tle defendants in this case was for
misconduct as election officers at an election held in Florida
for a representative to Congress, in stuffing the ballot-box with
fraudulent tickets, and abstracting tickets which had been
voted. In empanelling the grand jury which found the indictment, four persons, otherwise competent, were excluded from
the panel for the causes mentioned in section 820 of the Revised
'Statutes, which grounds are, in substance, voluntarily taking
part in the Rebellion, and giving aid and comfort thereto.
The exclusion of these persons for this cause appears by an
amendment of the record, made n eun
pro tune, showing what
took place; but no objection was taken to the indictment or
p4oceedings on that account until after a plea of not guilty,
and a conviction, when the objection was flrst taken on motion
in arrest of judgment. The *indictmentwas founded upon sections 5512 and 5515 Qf the Revised Statutes, and the constitutionality of those sections. was called in question, as
well as that of section -820. The judges having disagrbed
upon the motion in arrest of judgment, certified up the
following questions for the determination of this court,
namely:
1. Whether sections 5512 and 5515 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, on which such indictment was founded,
are repugnant to and in violation of the Constitution of the
Unifed States? 2. Whether section 820 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States is repugnant to and in violation of the
Constitiftion of the United States? 3. Whether judgment of
this court could be, rendered against the defendants on an
indictment found by a grand jury empanelled and sworn under
the section aforesaid? and 4. Whether the indictment aforesaid
charges any offence for which judgment could be rendered
against the defendants in this court under the Constitution and
laws of the United States?
The question of the validity of sections 5512 and 5515 has
already been decided by this' court in the cases of Siebold and
OMarke,. 100 YT. S. 371, 399, and was determined in favor of
their validity. As to those sections, therefore, the answer must

UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

be in the negative, namely, that they are not repugnant to, nor
in violation of, the Constitution of the United States.
The second question, as to the constitutionality of the 820th
section of the Revised Statutes, which disqualifies a person as a
juror if he voluntarily took any part in the Rebellion, is not an
essential one in the case; inasmuch as, by pleading not guilty
to the indictment, and going to trial without making any
objection to the mode of selecting the grand jury, such objection was waived. The defendants should either have moved to
quash the indictment or have pleaded in abatement, if they had
no opportunity, or did not see fit, to challenge the array. This,
we think, is the true doctrine in cases where the objection does
not go to the subversion of all the proceedings taken in empanelling and swearing the grand jury; but relates only to the
qualification or disqualification of certain persons sworn upon
the jury or excluded therefrom or to mere irregularities in
constituting the panel. We have no inexorable statute making
the whole proceedings void for any such irregularities.
Chitty, in his work on Criminal Law, vol. 1, p. 307, says:
"It is perfectly clear that all persons serving upon the grand
jury must be good and lawful men; by which it is intended,
that they must be liege subjects of the king, and neither aliens
nor persons outlawed even in a civil action; attainted of any
treason or felony; or convicted of any species of crimenfalsi,as
conspiracy or perjury, which may render them infamous. And
if a man who lies under any of these disqualifications be returned,
he may be challenged by the prisoner before the bill is presented ;
or, if it be discovered after the finding, the defendant may plead
it in avoidance, and answer over to the felony; for which purpose he maybe allowed the assistance of counsel on producing in
court the record of the outlawry, attainder, or conviction, on
which the incompetence of the juryman rests."

This is undoubtedly the general rule as to the manner in
which objection may be taken to the personnel of the grand
jury, though in this country a motion to quash the indictment
may be made instead of pleading specially in abatement.
The requirement of answering over to the felony in connection

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

with the plea in abatement is for the benefit of the accused, in order that he may not be concluded on the merits if
he should fail in sustaining his special ple.%,-a precaution
which probably would not be necessary in our practice.
By an English statute passed in the 11th year of Henry IV.,
it was declared that indictments made by persons not returned
by the sheriff, or by persons nominated to him, or who were
outlawed or had fled to sanctuary for treason or felony,
should be void, revoked and annulled. On this statute it-was
Jheld that if any such persons were on a grand jury which
found an indictment, it made the whole void, and if the matter appeardd on the record, or in the proceedings of the same
court, advantage might be taken of it on motion in arrest of
judgment, or even on the suggestion of an amiaw curio; but
if it did not appear on the record of the cause, or in the records
of the same court, the better opinion was that it could only be
pleaded in abatement, or raised by motion to quash. Hawkins
says :
"If a person who is tried upon such an indictment take no exception before his trial, it may be doubtful whether he may be
allowed to take exception afterward, because he hath slipped the
most projer time for it; except it be verified by the records of
the same court wherein -the indictment is depending, as by an
outlawry in the same court of one of the indictors, etc." Hawkins, book 2, ch. 25, sect. 0'.

In' Bacon's Abridgment (Turies, A) it is said that the court
need not::admit of the plea of outlawry of an indictor unless
he who pleads it have the record ready, or it be an outlawry
of the same court; 'and it is added, as the better opinion, that
no exception against an indictor is allowable, unless the party
takes it before trial. Ohitty-lays down the same rule. 1 Crim.
L. 301-8. Lord Chief Justice Hale, speaking of what the caption ought to contain, among other things, says:
"1It must name the jurors that presented the .offence, and
therefore a return of an indictment or presentment per sacramentum A. B., 0. D., et aliorum, is not. good, for it may be the

UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

presentment was by a less number than twelve, in which case it is
not good (II. 41 Eliz. B. R. Croke, n. 16, Clyneard's Case, p. 654);
and it seems to me that all the names of the jurors ought to be
returned ; for the party indicted may have an exception to home
or one of them, as that he is outlawed, in which case the indictment may be quashed by plea, though there be twelve besides
without exception ; for possibly that one, who is not legalis
homo, may influence all the rest, and so vitiate the whole indictment."

All these authorities tend to the same point, namely, that
the proper mode of taking objection to the personnel of the
grand jury, even under the statute referred to, when the matter
does not appear of record, is by plea in abatement.
If under the operation of so stringent a statute as that of 11
Hen. IV., the general rule was, that the objection to the constitution of the grand jury must be taken before trial, and
could only be taken afterward when it appeared on the record,
much more would it seem to 1 requisite that all ordinary objections based upon the disqualification of particular jurors,
or upon informalities in summoning or empanelling the jury,
where no statute makes proceedings utterly void, should be
taken in limine, either by challenge, by motion to quash, or by
plea in abatement. Nfeglecting to do this, the defendant should
be deemed to have waived the irregularity. It'would be trifling
with justice, and would render criminal proceedings a farce, if
such objections could be taken after verdict, even though the
irregularity should appear in the record of the proceedings. In
most cases it could not appear in a record properly made up;
but, if appearing at all, it would require (as in the present case)
a special certificate of the court analogous to a bill of exceptions, or a case stated,-not constituting a part of the true
record. But even if it should appear upon the record as a
proper part thereof, the fact of pleading to the merits and going to trial without taking the objection would also appear,
and would amount in law to a waiver of the irregularity. If
it could be taken advantage of on a motion in arrest of judgment, it would be a good groun'd" of reversal on error, and all
the proceedings of a long term might be-rendered nugatory by

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

admitting a person to the grand jury, or excluding a person
from it, without ,the matter being called to the attention of the
court; whereas, if the objection were taken in imine, the
irregularity might be corrected by reforming the panel or summoning a new jury.
The remarks apply with additional force where the objection is not to the disqualification of jurors who are actually
sworn upon the panel, but to the exclusion, or excuse, of persons from serving on the panel. A. disqualified juror placed
upon the panel may be supposed injuriously to affect the
whole panel; but if the individuals forming it are unobjectionable, and tiave all the necessary qualifications, it is of less moment to the accused what persons may have been set aside or
excused. The present case is of the latter kind. No complaint is made that any of the grand jurors who found the indictfnent were disqualified to serve, or were in any respect improper persons. It ia only complained that the court excluded
some persons for an improper cause, that is, because they
labored under.the disqualification created by tb .- 820th section
of the Revised Statutes, which is alleged to be unconstitutional.
It is not complained that the jury actually empanelled was
not a good one; but that other persons equally good had a
right to be placed on it. These persons do not complain.
If their right to serve on the grand jury was improperly
infringed, perhaps they might complain of being excluded.
That is another matter. Or, perhaps, the defendants, if correct in their assumption that the law is unconstitutional, and
that the court was governed by an improper rule in excluding
persons under it, might have had the befiefit of the error by
moving to quash the indictment, or by pleading in abatement.
But passing by these proper modes of taking thpe objection,
they waited until they had-been tried and convicted on a plea
of not guilty, and then moved in arrest of judgment. We
think they. were too late in raising the objection.
Some importance is attached to the fact that the court followed an unconstitutional law, or one a.sumed to be such.
We do not see that this is in any .wise different from the case
in which the court misconstrues the law. The result is the

UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

same: certain persons, under a misconception of the court, axe
excluded from the grand jury who are qualified to serve on
it; but the jury, as actually constituted, is unexceptionable in
every other respect. In either case, whether the court is mistaken as to the validity of a law or as to.its interpretation, the
objection relates so little to the merits of the case that it ought
to be taken in the regular order and due course of proceeding.
There are cases, undoubtedly, which admit of a different
consideration, and in which the objection to the grand jury
may be taken at any time. These are where the whole proceeding of farming the panel is void; as where the jury is not
a jury of the court or term in which the indictment is found;
or has been selected by persons having no authority whatever
to select them; or where they have not been sworn; or where
some other fundamental requisite has not been complied with.
But there is no complaint of this kind in the present case: the
complaint simply relates to the action of the court in excluding
particular persons who might properly have served on the
jury. We do not think that this vitiated all the proceedings
so as to render them absolutely null and void. It might have
sufficed to quash the indictment if the objection had been
timely and properly made. Nothing more.
We think that this conclusion is the result not only of the
English, but of the better American authorities.
Mr. Wharton, in his section on the "Disqualification of
Grand Jurors, and how it may be excepted to," begins by stating the general rule, that irregularities in selecting or empanelling the grand jury, which do not relate to the competency of
individual jurors, may usually be objected to, by challenge to
the array, or motion to quash; and this must be before the
general issue. Crim. P. & Pr. Sth ed., § 344. He then shows
that in some States it has been held that objections to disqualification of individual jurors can only be taken by challenge,
and not by motion to quash or by plea; but that in others the
motion to quash, as well as the plea, is allowed; the latter rule
being more generally followed, and being more in accordance
with the English law. lHe then adds:

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
after the general issue has been pleaded objections are too late; and when the objection goes to the manner of
drawing it should be taken by challenge to the array. . . But
on principle, in those cases in which the defendant is surprised,
and had no opportunity to take exception until after the finding
of the bill, he should be allowed to take advantage of any irregularity by plea." (§ 350.)
COrdinarily

We apprehend that the rule last stated is the correct one.
But in § 353, it is added, that at common law, if the objection
appears of record, and there be no statutory impediment, a
motion in arrest of judgment may be entertained.
This last
position w do not think is well sustained. As we have seen,
it was by force of the statute of .11 Henry IV. that objections
might be taken after the trial in England; and the American
cases referred to by Mr. Wharton do not sustain his observation. In
adiq'8 648e, 2 Richardson, 533, the motion in
arrest of judgment was based on the ground that the grand
jury was not such for the term at which the bill was found,
and of course the proceedings were coram onjudce. In the
other cases cited in support of the position, the motions were
overruled. We think that the doctrine of waiver applies as
well to cases where the objection appears of record as where it
appears by averments; and that it applies to all cases of objection to the qualifications of jurors, and to the mode of empanelling the jury; but does not apply to cases where the proceeding is wholly void: by reason of some fundamental defect or
vice therein. Brooke's Abr. Indict. 2; Seabom8' Ca e, 4 Dev.
305; _obine's Cae, 2 Parker's Crim. Cas. 308. In the case
in Brooke, .persons not legali homin were on the grand jury,
and it was held that the objection ought to be pleaded before
pleading to the felony. In Seaborn8's Case it was held that,
after conviction of murder, it was too late to take advantage
of an error in constituting the grand jury, though it appeared
in the record. In
obinon's Cae, 2 Parker's Crim. Cas.
235, 308, 311, which was argued by able counsel in the
Supreme Court of New York before Justices Parker, Wright
and Harris, no precept for summoning the grand jury had
been issued by the district attorney to the sheriff, as the law

UNITED STATES v. GALE.
Opinion of the Court.

required, though the sheriff summoned them.in the usual way.
The court held that this omission did not affect the substantial
rights of the prisoner, and that the objection could not be
raised after trial and conviction. Many authorities were referred to in the opinion of the court delivered by Mr. Justice
Parker, and this general statement was then made:
"It seems to be well settled in most of the States that an objection to the qualification of" grand jurors, or to the mode of
summoning or empanelling them, must be made by a motion to.
quash or by a plea in abatement, before pleading in bar."

The subject is also discussed in Bishop's Crim. Procedure,.
chap. LX., where the same general rule is laid down, though
with a reservation of some doubt as to cases where the objection appears of record. (§ 887, 888.) As before stated, we
think that it is the nature of the objection, rather than the
fact of its appearing or not appearing on the record, which
should decide whether it ought to be taken by a plea in abatement, or whether it may also be taken by motion in arrest of
judgment; though, of course, it cannot be taken by such a
motion unless it does appear of record.
Being satisfied that the defendants could not raise the question
of the constitutionality of section 820 by motion in arrest of
judgment, it is not necessary, as before observed, to express
any opinion on that point. It may be proper, however, to call
attention to the singular position of that section. It7 was
originally enacted as section I of the act passed June 17, 1862,
entitled "An Act defining different causes of challenge, and
prescribing an additional oath for grand and petit jurors in the
United States courts," 12 Stat. 430. At that time (1862) it
was no doubt a very proper and necesshry law; but after the
rehabilitation of the insurgent States, the proclamation of general amnesty, and the adbption of the Fourteenth Amendment, guaranteeing equal rights to all citizens of the United
States, there would seem to have been no just reason for the
continuance of the law; especially as byfar the largest portion
of white citizens in the States lately in rebellion would be disqualified under it. Accordingly, by the 5th section of the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

commonly called the Enforcement Act, passed April 20, 1871,
17 Stat. 15, Congress, after providing that in prosecutions
under that act, no person should be a grand or petit juror who
should, in the judgment of the court, be in complicity with any
combination or conspiracy punishable by the provisions thereof,
repealed the said fnt section of the act of 1862; and the law
remained in this state until the adoption of the Revised Statutes.
For some unexplained reason, the revisers imported the section
back again into the Revised Statutes (as section 820), although
it had not beez in force for over two years. It is probable that
the fact of .its repeal was overlooked by Congress when the
revision was adopted; and it is to be hoped that their attention
will be called to it.
In'conclusion, to the third and fourth questions certified by
the court below, the answer will be in the affirmative;
And it i8 8o ordered.

STEEVER

IOKMAN.
I.

Submitted October 2d, 188.-Decided October 28d, 1888.

Afj;peal-Cler'8fee8-Pactlce.

If, through fault of the party prosecuting a cause in this court, printed copies
of the record are not furnished to the justices or parties, the writ on appeal
will be dismissed for want of prosecution, unless good cause be shown to the
contrary. The fees of the clerk of this court must be paid in advance when
demanded.

Motion to use printed record without paying clerk's fee.
Mu. C=IF Jusno

,

WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

By the act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses
of the. government for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1881, c.
143, 292 Stat. 631, the clerk of this court is required to pay
into the treasury the fees and emoluments of his office over
and above his own compensation as fixed by law, and his
necessary clerk hire and incidental expenses. It is proper,
therefore, that for his protection his fees should be paid in
advance, if demanded.

