OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Syllabus.

settlements between the State and the United States by allowances in account, The same may be said of the marks on the
plats sent out from the general land office to the local land officers. They were clerical mistakes, growing out of an imperfect
-knowledge of the geography of the country. They did not
change the reservation, but only gave wrong information as to
what it was. There is no question of estoppel as a consequence
of the mistake involved. The railroad grant of 1856 was subject to the reservation for the river grant. There is no pretence of fraud anywhere, and the record does not show that
the conduct of the appellants or their grantors has been in any
way influenced by the plats or the unauthorized selections and
certificates. They knew, or ought to have known, that the
reservation was confined to the river lands, and .that the branch
was not the river. Hence the reservation is to have effect according to its terms, and not according to any mistaken interpretation which may at some time have been given to it.
We find no error in the record, and the
Judgmen i qffivned.

KEYES v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted November 13th, 1883.-Decided November 26th, 1883.
Constitutional Law-u-Courts-.3artial-Execulive.
The president has the power to supersede or remove an officer of the army by
appointing another in his place, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate.
Such power was not withdrawn by the provision in ยง 5 of the act of July 13th,
1866, c. 176 (14 Stat. 92), now embodied in ยง 1229 of the Revised Statutes,
that "no officer in the military or naval service shall, in time of peace, be
dismissed from service, except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of a
court-martial to that effect, or in commutation thereof."
Where a court-martial has cognizance of the charges made, and has jurisdiction of the, person of the accused, its sentence is valid, when questioned
collaterally, although irregularitios or errors are alleged to have occurred in,
its proceedings, in that the prosecutor was a member of the court and a
witness on the trial.
No opinion is expressed as to the propriety of such proceedings.

KEYES v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

The appellant brought a suit against the United States, in
the court of claims, on the 2d of February, 1880, claiming to
recover the sum of $4,236.36, for his pay as a second lieutenant
in the 5th regiment of cavalry, in the army of the United
States, from the 28th of April, 1877. That court dismissed his
petition, on the following facts found by it: In February, 1877,
the appellant was tried on four charges and specifications,
before a general court-martial composed of ten officers. One
of them, Colonel Merritt, was the colonel of the 5th cavalry.
They were all present. The appellant being before the court,
and the order appointing it being read, he was asked if he had
any objection to any member of the court present, named in
the order, to which he replied in the negative. The oaths were
then administered to the members of the court in the presence
of the appellant. The first three of the charges and specifications were preferred by the lieutenant-colonel of the 5th cavalry, and the fourth by Colonel Merritt. The appellant was
represented by counsel of his own selection. He pleaded not
guilty. Colonel Merritt was sworn as a witness on the part of
the government, and gave testimony in support of the charge
and specifications preferred by him, but gave no testimony in
regard to the other charges and specifications. The day after
the appellant pleaded not guilty, he withdrew, by leave of the
court, his plea of not guilty to the second charge and its specifications, and entered a, plea of guilty thereto. Colonel Merritt
continued to sit as a member of the court throughout the trial,
and participated in rendering the final judgment. At the close
of the evidence, the appellant submitted, in writing, a statement
of his defence, which was read to the court. It contained no
objection or reference to the participation of Colonel Merritt 1n
the trial, as a member of the court, or to his having been so
sworn and examined as a witness on behalf of the government.
The court found the appellant guilty of all the charges and
specifications, and sentenced him to be dismissed from the service. The proceedings, findings, and sentence of the court
were approved by the President of the United States, who ordered that the sentence should take effect on the 28th of April,
1877. On the 27th of June, 1877, th. -te not being in.-esVOL. cix-22

OCTOBER TER1, 1883.
Argument for the Appellant.

sion, the president appointed Henry J. Goldman to be a second
lieutenant in the 5th regiment of cavalry, and, on the 15th of
October, 1877, he nominated Goldman to the senate for appointment as second lieutenant in said regiment in place of the
appellant, dismissed, to date from June 15th, 1877. The senate
advised and consented to the appointment of Goldman, and he
was accordingly commissioned and still holds the office of such
second lieutenant.
3fr. James Coleman for the appellant.-I. Courts-martial
are courts of limited and special jurisdiction, and it is essential
to their validity that it should be affirmatively shown that
they acted upon a case clearly within their jurisdiction, and
that their proceedings were strictly regular. No presumption
can be indulged in favor of the validity of the judgment of
such a court, and its judgment is everywhere treated a8 a
nullity, unless the record affirmatively shows both jurisdiction
and regularity of proceeding. 3 Greenl. Ev., sec. 470; Dupfeld
v. Smith and others, 3 Serg. & Raawle, 589; Brooks v. Adams,
11 Pick. 440; ./ill/s v. .fartin, 19 Johns. 7; Jones v. Crawford, 1 Jolms. Case, p. 20, and cases cited; Op)inion of Attarney-General Rush, Opins. vol. 1, pt 177; Sheldon v. Sill, 8
How. 441 ; State v. Gachenheirner,30 Ind. 63 ; Ohio, &o., 1?. 1.
Co. v. Sh.,kult, 31 Ind. 150; State v. Ely, 43 Ala. 568. Courtsmartial, and every other statutory court, or courts of limited
and special jurisdiction, must observe all the principles of the
common law, except in so far as special statutes have imposed
a different rule for such courts. 3 Greenleaf on Evidence, 469;
Adye on Courts-martial, 45; Benet on Courts-martial, 244;
De Hart's Military Law, 322; fustratt'8 Case, 2 Mac Arthur,
15; Simmons on Courts-martial, 485; Harwood on Naval
COUrts-martial, 21. Interested parties cannot join in deciding
suits. The Queen v. Justice of Iler(fordshie,.6 A. & E. 753;
Broom's Legal Maxims, 119; Stockwell v. Townhip qf Wite
-Lake,22 Mich. 341; Sigourney v. Sibley, 21 Pick. 101 ; Cottle
App't, 5 Pick. 483; Coffin v. Cottle, 9 Pick. 287; Hiciiman on
Naval Courts-martial, 246-248. I. Consent will not confer
jurisdiction. .3ordecai v. Linday, 19 How. 199; .- ontgomery

KEYES v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Anderson, 21 How. 386 ; ]Falker v. Il-ynett, 32 Iowa, 524;
iee v. State, 3 Banks (Kansas), 141 ; Linds.ay v. AJfc 'lellnd,

1 Bibb, 262; Bet's Ex'r v. Graves, 3 McCord, 28+; .Foley v.
People, Breese, 57; Falkenbltrghv. Cramer,Coxe, 31 ; Parker
v. .fun day, Coxe, 70; Ballanee v. Forsyth, 21 How. 389;
Jackson v. As/don, 8 Pet. 148; -Yansas City, &c., R. 1. Co. v.
.Nelson,62 Mo. 585; State v. Jzedge, de., 21 La. Ann. 258. III.
Notwithstanding the accused confessed his guilt, he is not
estopped from now controverting the jurisdiction of the court
before which he was tried. TDqJked v. Smith, 3 Serg. and
Rawle, 589.
.Mt. Attor)wy-General for the United States.
MRr. J-STIcE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts in the language used above, and then
said:
So far as regards the time after June 15th, 1877, the fact
that Goldman was appointed by the president, by and with
the advice and consent of the senate, a second lieutenant in
the 5th cavalry, in the place of the appellant, from June 15th
1877, and was commissioned as such, and accepted and held
the appointment, is a bar to the suit of the appellant. It was
held by this court, in Blake v. United States, 103 U. S. 227, that
the president has the power to supersede or remove an officer
of the army by the appointment of another in his place, by and
with the advice and consent of the senate, and that such power
was not withdrawn by the provision of ยง 5 of the act of July
13th, 1866, c. 176, 14 Stat. 92, now embodied in ยง 1229 of
the Revised Statutes, that "no officer in the military or naval
service shall, in time of peace, be dismissed from service, except upon and in pursuance of the sentence of a court-martial
to that effect, or in commutation thereof." It was held that
this provision did not restrict the power of the president, by
and with the advice and consent of the senate, to displace
officers of the army or navy, by the appointment of others in
their places.
In regard to the rest of the time covered by the suit, it be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

comes necessary to decide the question raised as to the validity
of the sentence of the court-martial. It is contended for the
appellant that the court-martial had no jurisdiction to try him;
that the fact that he made no objection to any member of the
court was not a consent upon his part which conferred jurisdiction on the court-martial; and that the fact that Colonel
Merritt was prosecutor, witness and judge rendered the proceed ngs of the court-martial void. The position is taken that,
although there is no statute or regulation which forbids what
was done in this case, the sentence of a court-martial in which
one of the judges is prosecutor and witness is absolutely void,
and that neither what the appellant said nor what he omitted
to say, at the time, can cure the defect in the organization of
the court.
That the court-martial, as a general court-martial, had
cognizance of the charges made, and had jurisdiction of the
person of the appellant, is not disputed. This being so, whatever irregularities or errors are alleged to have occurred in the
proceedings, the sentence of dismissal must be held valid when
it is questioned in this collateral way. Thom2so= v. Tolmie, 2
Peters, 157; TVoor les v. Banc of United States, 10 id. 449;
Cornett v. Williams, 20 Wallace, 226, 249. This doctrine has
been applied by this court to the judgment and sentence of a
naval general court-martial, which was sought to be reviewed
on a writ of haeas corpus. Exparte Reed, 100 U. S. 13.
Where there is no law authorizing the court-martial, or
where the statutory ;conditions as to the constitution or jurisdiction of the court are not observed, there is no tribunal
authorized by law to render the judgment. Of that character
are the authorities cited and relied on by the appellant; but
they do not apply to the present case.
Under the foregoing views, we express no opinion as to the
propriety of-the proceedings of the court-martial in the respects
in which they are assailed.
Thejudgmmnt -of the court of claims is afflrmed.
M-R. JHSTicE FIELD did not sit in this case or.take part -in its

decision.

