CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

527

Syllabus.

out pro rata on the bonds secured by the viortgage, on their
being produced and cancelled, or surrenderedfor canwella-

t6on, provided the road 8ell8 for so much.
MR. JusnoR FiELt and M.R. JusTICE :M-T_ amws took no part
in the hearing or decision of this case.

CANADA SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPALNYv. GEBHARD and Another, Executors.

SAME v. GEBHARD.
SAlE v. SAME.
SAME v. GEBLARD and Another, Executors.
ALL: IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UlITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued October 24th, 1883.-Decided December 10th, 18M3.

Bankmruptcy-Conflict of Laws-Contitutinal Law-Contracts-Corporations-Dominion of Canada-Statutes(Foreign).
1. The Parliament of Canada has authority to grant to an embarrassed railway corporation within the Dominion power to make an arrangement
with its mortgage creditors for the substitution of a new security-in the
place of the one they hold, and to provide that the arrangement shall
be binding on all the holders of obligations secured by the same mortgage
when it shall have received the assent of the majority, provision being
made for the protection of the minority in the enjoyment of rights and
privileges in the new security identical with those of the majority.
2. When the Parliament of the Dominion of Canada authorizes a corporation,
existing under its authority, to enforce upon its mortgage creditors a
settlement by which they are to receive other securities of the corporation
in place of their mortgage bonds, and the scheme is assented to by a large
majority of bondholders, and goes into effect, and the right of citizensof
the United States who are bondholders to participate in the reorganization on the same terms as Canadians or other British subjects is preserved and recognized, the settlement is binding upon bondholders who
are citizens of the United States, and who sue in courts of the United
States to recover on their bonds.

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

3. A corporation dwells in the place of its creation, but may do business wherever its charter allows and local laws do not forbid. A corporation of
one country, doing business in another countky, is subject to such control, in respect to its powers and obligations, as the government which
created it .mayproperly exercise. Every person who deals with it anywhere impliedly subjects himself to such laws of its own country affecting
'its power and obligations as the known and established policy of that
government authorizes. Anything done in that country under the authority of such law, which discharges it from liability there, discharges
it everywhere.
As individual holders of mortgage bonds issued by a railroad corporation,
and secured by the same mortgage, have mutual contract interests and
relations, there is nothing inequitable, when the power exists, in subjecting a small minority to the will of a decided majority, in reorganizing
the mortgage indebtedness when the corporation is embarrassed. ,Semble,
That if this -ere done by virtue of a statute of the United States, enacted
under the pr5ision of the Constitution conferring power to establish
uniform laws on the subject of bankruptcy, it would not be regarded as
impairing the obligation of a contract.

Suits (commenced in the Supreme Court of the State of New
York and removed to the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern District of New York), by holders of mortgage bonds of the Canada Southern Railway Company, and of
extension bonds, to recover on their extension bonds and on the
interest coupons on their mortgage bonds. The following are
the facts as stated by the court:
What is now known as the.Canada Southern Railway Company was originally incorporated on the 28th of February, 1868,
by the legislature of the Province of Ontario, Canada, to build
and operate a railroad in that province between the Detroit
and Niagara rivers, and was given power to borrow money in
the province or elsewhere and issue negotiable coupon bonds
ther-for, secured by a mortgage on its property, "for completing, maintaining, and working the railway." Under this authority the company, on the 2d of Xanuary, 1871, at Fort Erie,
Canada, made and issued a series of negotiable bonds, falling
due in the year 1906, amounting in all to $8,703,000, with
coupons for semi-annual interest attached, payable, principal
and interest, at the Union Trust Company, in the City 9 f New
York. To secure the payment of both principal and interest
as they matured, a trust mortgage was executed by the com-

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

529

Statement of Facts.
pany covering "the railway of said company, its lands, tolls,
revenues present and future, property and effects, franchises
and appurtenances." Every bond- showed on its face that it
was of this kind and thus secured.
Before the 31st of December, 1873, the company became
satisfied that it would be unable to meet the interest on these
bonds maturing in the coming Januaxy, and so it requested the
holders to fund their coupons falling due January 1st, 1874,
July 1st, 1874, and January 1st, 1875, by converting them into
new bonds' payable on the 1st or January, 1877, and by so
doing only, in legal effect, extend the time for the payment of
the interest, without destroying the lien of the coupons under
the mortgage, or otherwise affecting the obligation of the old
bonds. Some of the bondholders funded their coupons, in
accordance with this proposition, and accepted the extension
bonds, but, under the arrangement, their coupons were not to
be cancelled until the new bonds were paid.
In this condition of affairs the Parliament of Canada, on the
26th of May, 1874, enacted that the Canada Southern Railway,
which was the railway built by the Canada Southern Railway
Company under its provincial act of incorporation, "be declared to be a work for the general advantage of Canada,"
and a "body corporate and politic within the jurisdiction of
Canada," for all the purposes mentioned in, and with aRh the
franchises conferred by, the several incorporating acts of the
legislature of the province. This, under the provisions of the
British North America act, 1867, passed by the Parliament of
Great Britain "for the Union of Canada, Nova Scotia, and
New Brunswick, and the Government thereof," made thb corporation a Domniou'corporation, and subjected it to the legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada.
On the 15th of March, 1875, another series of bonds, amounting in the aggregate to $2,044,000, or thereabouts, was issued
and secured by a second mortgage to trustees. After the issue
of al the bonds the company found itself unable to pay its interest and otherwise financially embarrassed, and a joint committee, composed of three directors and three bondholders,
after full consideration of all the circumstances, submitted to
VOL.--e=--4

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Statement of Facts.

the company and to the bondholders "a scheme of arrangement of the affairs of the company," which was approved at a
meeting of the directors on the 28th of September, 187T. This
scheme contemplated. the issue of $14,000,000' of thirty-year
bonds, bearing three per cent. interest for three years and five
per cent. thereafter, guaranteed, as to interest, for twenty years,
by the New York Central and Hudson River :Railroad Company, the first coupons being payable January 1st, 1878.
These new bonds were to be secured by a first mortgage on
.the property of the ompany, and exchanged for old bonds at
certain specified rates. The old bonds of 1871 were to be exchanged: for new at the rate of one dollar of principal of tho
old for one dollar of the new, nothing being given either for
the past due coupons or the extension bonds executed under
the arrangenent in December, 1873. The proposed issue of
bonds was large enough to-take up all the old indebtedness at
the rates proposed, whether bonded or otherwise, and leave a
surplus, to be used for acquiring further equipment, and for
such other purposes of the company as the directors might find
necessary. This scheme was formally assented to by the
holders of 108,132 shares of the capital stock out of 150,000;
by the holders of the bonds of 1871 to the amount of $7,332,000 out of $8,703,000; and by the holders of $1,590,000 of
the second series of bonds out of $2,029,000 then outstanding.
Upon the representation of these facts to the Parliament of
Canada, the "1Canada Southern Arrangement Act, 1878," was
passed and assented to in the Queen's name on the 16th of
April, 1878.
This statute, after reciting the scheme of arrangement, with
the causes that led to it, and that it had been assented to by the
holders of -more than two-thirds of the shares of the capital stock
of the company, and by the holders of more than three-fourths
of the two classes of bonds, enacted that the scheme be authorized and approved; that the new bonds be a first charge "over
all the undertaking, railway works, rolling stock and other
plant" of the company, and that the new bonds be used for the
purposes contemplated by the arrangement, including the payment of the floating debt. Section 4 was as follows:

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBJARD.

531

Statement of Facts.

"4. The scheme, subject to the conditions and provisos in this
act contained, shall be deemed to have been assented to by all the
holders of the original first mortgage -bonds of the company secured
by the said recited indenture of the fifteenth day of December,
one thousand eight Ahundred and seventy, and of all coupons and
bonds for interest thereon, and also, by all the holders of the
second mortgage bonds of the company secured by the said recited indenture of the fifteenth day of March, one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-five, and of all coupons thereon, and also by
all the shareholders of the Canada Southern Railway Company,
and the hereinbefore recited arrangement shall be binding upon
all the said holders of the first and second mortgage bonds and coupons, and bonds for interest thereon respectively, and upon all the
shareholders of the company."
Under the arrangement thus authorized the New York
Central and Hudson River Railroad Company executed the
proposed guaranty, and the scheme was otherwise carried into
effect.
The several defendants in error were, and always had been,
citizens of the State of New York, and were, at the time the
scheme of arrangement was entered into and confirmed by the
Parliament of Canada, the holders and owners of certain of the
bonds of 1871, and of certain extension bonds, these last having
been delivered to them respectively at the Union Trust Company
in the city of New York, where the exchanges were made, in
December, 1873. Neither of the defendants in error assented
in felt to the scheme of arrangement, and they did not take part
in the appointment of the joint committee. Their extension
bonds have never been paid, neither have the coupons on their
bonds of 1871, which fell due on the.lst of Tuly, 1875, an'l
since, though demanded. The company has been at all times
ready and willing to issue and deliver to them the full nuinber
of new bonds, with the guaranty of the New York Central
and Hudson River Railroad Company attached, that they would
be entitled to receive under the scheme of arrangement.
These suits were brought qn the extension bonds and past due.
coupons. The company pleaded the scheme of arrangement
as a defence, and at the trial tendered the new bonds in ex-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

change for the old. The circuit court decided that the
arrangement was not a bar to the actions, and gave judgments
in- each of them against the company for the full amount of
extension bonds and coupons sued for. To reverse these judgments the present writs of error were brought.
.Xr. Joseph H Choate for the plaintiff in error.
fr. John X. Bowers for the defendant in error.
M]. CHIEF JusToE WAiTE delivered the opinion of the
court. After reciting the foregoing facts, he said:
Two questions are presented for our consideration:
1. Whether the "Arrangement Act" is valid in Canada, and
had the effect of binding non-assenting bondholders within the
Dominion by the terms of the scheme; and,
2. Whether, if it did have that effect in Canada, the courts
of the United States should give it the same effect as against
citizens of the United States whose rights accrued before its
passage.
1. There is no constitutional prohibition in Canada against
the passage of laws impairing the obligation of contracts, and
the Parliament of the Dominion had, in 1878, exclusive legislative authority over the corporation and the general subjects of
banluptcy and insolvency in that jurisdiction. As to all matters within its authority, the Dominion Parliament has "plenary legislative powers as large and of the same nature as those
of the imperial parliament." The City of Fredericton v. The
Queen, 3 Canada Supreme Court, 505.
On the 20th of August, 1867, the Parliament of Great Britain passed the "Railway Companies Act, 1867." 2 Stat. 1332;
30, 31 Vict., c. 127. This act provides, among other things,
for'the preparation of "schemes of arrangement" between
railway companies unable to meet their engagements and their
creditors, which can be filed in the court of chancery, accompanied by a declaration in writing, under the seal of the company, and verified by the oaths of the directors, to the effect
that the company is unable to meet its engagements with its
creditors. Notice of the filing of such a scheme must be pub-

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

533

Opinion of the Court.

lished in the Gazette, and the scheme is to be deemed assented
to by the holders of mortgages, bonds, debenture stock, rent
charges, and preference shares, when assented ' to in writing by
the holders of three-fourths in value of each class of security,
and by fhe ordinary shareholders when assented to at an extraordinary general meeting, specially called for that purpose.
Provision is then made for an application to the court by the
company for a confirmation of the scheme. Notice of this application must be published in the Gazette, and, after hearing,
the court, if satisfied that no sufficient objection to the scheme
has been established, may confirm it. See. 18 is as follows:
"The scheme when confirmed shall be enrolled in the court, and
thenceforth the same shall be binding and effectual to all intents,
mid the provisions thereof shall, against and in favor of the company and all parties assenting thereto or bound thereby, have the
like effect as if they had been enacted by parliament."
This act, it is apparent, was not passed to provide, for the
first time, a way in which insolvent and embarrassed railway
companies might settle and adjust their affairs, but to authorize
the court of chancery to do what had before been done by parliament. Lord Cairns, L. J., said of it in Cambrian Railway8
Company'8 Scheme, L. R. 3 Oh. at page 2941:
"Hitherto such companies, if they desired to raise further capital to meet their engagements, have been forced to go to parliament for a special act, enabling them to offer such advantages by
way of preference or priority to persons furnishing new capital
as would lead to its being obtained. And parliament, in dealing
with such applications, has been in the habit of considering how
far the arrangements proposed as to such new capital were assented to or dissented from by those who might be considered as
the proprietors of the existing capital of the company, either as
shareholders or bondholders. The object of the present act . .
appears to be to dispense with a special application to parliament
of the kind I have described, and to give a parliamentary sanction
to a scheme filed in the court of chancery, and confirmed by the
court, and assented to by certain majorities of shareholders and
of holders of debentures and securities ejusdem generi."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

And even/now in England special acts are passed whenever
the provisions of the general act are not such as are needed to
meet the wants-of a particular company. A special act of this
kind was considered in London FinancialA88ociation v. lYrexham, .Mold and Connak's Quay Railway Co npany, L. R. 18
Eq. 566.
In Canada no general statute like that in England has.been
enacted. but the old English practice of passing a special act in
each particular case prevails, and Osler, J., said in Jone8 v.
Canada CentralRailway Company, 46 Up. Can. Q. B. 250, "our
statute books are full" of legislation of the kind. The particular question in that case was whether, after the establishment
of the Dominion goyernment the provincial parliaments had
authority to pass laws with reference to provincial corporations
which would operate upon debentures payable in England, and
held by persons residing there, but it was not suggested, either
by the court or counsel, that a statute of the kind, passed by
the Dominion Parliament in reference to a Dominion corporation, would not be valid as a law. So far as we are advised,
the parliamentary authority for such legislation has never been
doubted either in England or Canada. Many cases are reported
in which such statutes were under consideration, but in no one
of them has it been intimated ,that the power was even questionable.
In GiVllan v. Union Canal Company, ante, it was said
that holders of bonds and other obligations issued by large corporations for sale in market and secured by mortgages to trustees, or otherwise, have, 'by fair implication, certain contract
relations with each other. In England, we infer from what
was said by Lord Cairns in Cambrian Railwaya Company'8
Scheme, usp a, they are considered as in a sense part proprietors
of the existing capital of the company, and dealt with by parliament and the courts accordingly. They are not there, any
more than here, corporators, and thus necessarily, in the absence of fraud or undue influence, bound by the will of the
majority as to matters within the scope. of the corporate powers,
but they'are interested in the administration of a trust which
has been created for their common benefit., Ordinarily thE -

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

535

Opinion of the Cour.

ultimate security depends in a large degree on the success of
the work in which the corporation is engaged, and it is not uncommon for differences of opinion to exist as to what ought to
be done for the promotion of their mutual interests. In the
absence of statutdry authority or some provision in the instrument which establishes the trust, nothing can be done by a
majority, however large, which will bind a minority without
their consent.: Hence it seems to be eminently proper that
where the, legislative power exists some statutory provision
should be made for binding the minority in a reasonable way
by the will of the majority; and unless, as is the case in the
States of the United States, the passage of laws impairing the
obligation of contracts is forbidden, we see no good reason why
such provision may not be made in respect to existing as well
as prospective obligations. The nature of securities of this
class is such that the right of legislative supervision for the
good of all, unless restrained by some constitutional prohibition,
seems almost necessarily to form one of their ingredients, and
when insolvency is threatened, and the interests of the public,
as well as creditors, are imperilled by the financial embarrassments of the corporation, a reasonable " scheme of arrangement"
may, in our opinion, as well be legalized as an ordinary "composition in bankruptcy." In fact, such "arrangement acts" are
a species of bankrupt acts. Their object is to enable corporations created for the good of the public to relieve themselves
from financial embarrassments by appropriating their property
to the settlement and adjustment of their affairs, so that they
may accomplish the purposes for which they were incorporated.
The necessity for such legislation is plearly shown in the preamble to the Grand Trunk Arrangement Act, 1862, passed by
the Parliament of the Province of Canada on the 9th of June,
1862, before the establishment of the Dominion government,
and which is in these words:
"Whereas the interest on all the bonds of the Grand Trunk
Railway Company of Canada is in arrear, as well as the rent of
the railways leased to it, and the eompany has also become indebted, both in Canada and in England, on simple contract, to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.
various persons and corporations, and several of the creditors
have, obtained judgment agaitst it, and much litigation is now
pending; and whereas the keeping open of the railway traffic,
which is of the utmost importance to the interests of the province,
is thereby imperilled, and the teims of a compromise have been
provisionally settled between the different classes of creditors and
the company, but in order to facilitate and give effect to such
compromise the interference of the legislature of the province is
necessary."
The confirmation and -legalization of "a scheme of arrange.
ment" under such circumstances is no more than is done in
bankruptcy when a "composition" agreement with the bankrupt debtor, if assented to by the required majority of creditors,
is made binding on the non-assenting minority. In no just
sense do such governmental regulations deprive a person of his
property without due process of law. They simply require
each individual to so conduct himself for the general good as
not unnecessarily to injure another. Bankrupt laws have been
in force in England for more than three centuries, and they had
their origin in the :Roman law. The Constitution expressly
empowers the Congress of the United States to establish such
laws. Every member of a political community must necessarily
part with some of the rights which, as an individual, not affected by: his relation to others, he might have retained. Such
concessions make up the consideration he gives for the obliga- i
tion of the body politic to protect him in life, liberty, and
property. Bankrupt laws, whatever may be the form they
assume, are of that character.
2. That the laws of a country have no extra-territorial force
is an axiom of international jurisprudence, but things done
in one country under the authority of law may be of binding effect in another country. The obligor of the bonds and
coupons here sued on was a corporati6n created for a public purpose, that is to say, to build, maintain, and work a railway in Canada. It had its corporate home in Canada, and-*was
subject to the exclusive legislative authority of the Dominion
parliament. It had no power to borrow money or incur debts
except for completing, maintaining, and working its railway.

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

537

Opinion of the Court.

The bonds taken by the defendants in error showed on their
face that they were part*of a series amounting in the aggregate to a very large sum of money, and that they were secured
by a trust mortgage on the railway of the company, its lands,
tolls, revenues, &c. IT this way the defendants in error, when
they bought their bonds, were, in legal effect, informed that
they were entering into contract relations not only with a foreign corporation created for a public purpose, and carrying on
its business within a foreign jurisdiction, but with the holders
of other bonds of the same series, who were relying eqiially
with themselves for their ultimate security on a mortgage of
property devoted to a public use, situated entirely within the
territory of a foreign goverfnment.
A corporation "must dwell in the place of its creation, and
cannot migrate to another sovereignty" (Bank of Augusta v.
Earle, 13 Pet. 588), though it may do business in all places
where" its charter allows and the local laws do not forbid.
Railroad v. .Joontz, 104 U. S. 12. But wherever it goes for
business it carries its charter, as that is the law of its existence
(Relf v. Rundel, 103 U. S. 226), and the charter is the same
abroad that it is at home. Whatever disabilities are placed
upon the corporation at home. it retains abroad, and whatever
legislative control it is subjected to at home must be recognized and submitted to by those who deal with it elsewhere.
A corporation of one country may be excluded from business
in another country (PauZ v. T7irginia, 8 Wall. 168), but, if admitted, it must, in the absence of legislation equivalent to
making it a corporation of the latter country, be taken,'both
by the government and those who deal with it, as a creature
of the law of its own country, and subject to all the legislative
control and direction that may be properly exercised over it
at the place of its creation. Suchk being the law, it follows
that every person who deals with a foreign corporation impliedly subjects himself to such laws of the foreign government, affecting the powers and obligations of the corporation
with which he voluntarily contracts, as the known and established policy of that government authorizes. To all intents
and purposes, he submits 'his contract with the corporation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Opinion of the Court.

such a policy of the foreign government, and whatever is done
by that government in furtherance of that policy which binds
those in like situation with himself, who are subjects of the
government, in respect to the operation and effect of their contracts with the corporation, will necessarily bind him. He is
conclusively presumed to have contracted with a view to such
laws of that government, because the corporation must of
necessity be controlled by them, and it has no power to contract with a view to any other laws'with which they are not
in entire harmony.' It follows, therefore, that anything done
at the legal home of the corporation, under the authority of
such laws, which discharges it from liability there, discharges
it everywhere.
tNo better illustration of the propriety of this rule can be
found than in the facts of the present case. This corporation
was created in Canada to build and work a.railway in that
Dominion. Its principal business was to be done in Canada,
and the bulk of its corporate property was permanently fixed
there. All its powers to contract were derived from the
Canadian government, and all the contracts it could make
were such as related directly or indirectly to its business in
Canada. That business affected the public interests, and the
keeping of the railway open for traffic was of the utmost importance to the people of the Dominion. The corporatiori had
become financially embarrassed, and was, and had been for a
long time, unable to meet its engagements in the ordinary way
as they matured.. There was an urgent necessity that something be done for the settlement of its affairs. In this the
public, the creditors and shareholders were all interested. A
large majority of the creditors and shareholders had agreed on
a plan of adjustment hich would enable the company to go
on with its business, and thus accommodate the public, and to
protect the creditors to the full extent of the available value of
its corporate property. The Dominion parliament had the
legislative power to legalize the plan of adjustment as it had
been agreed on by the majority of those interested, and to
bind the resident minority creditors by its. terms. This power
was known and recognized throughout the Dominion when

CANADA SOUTHERIN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

539

Opinion of the Court.

the corporation was created, and when all its bonds were executed and put on the market and sold. It is in accordance
with and part of the plolicy of the English and Canadian governments in dealing with embarrassed and insolvent railway
companies and in. providing for their reorganization in the
interest of all concerned. It takes the place in England and
Canada of foreclosure sales in the United States, which in general accomplish substantially the same result with more expense and greater delay; for it rarely happens in the United
States that foreclosures of railway mortgages are anything else
than the machinery by which arrangements between the
creditors and other parties in interest are carried into effect,
and a reorganization of the affairs of the corporation under a
new name brought about. It is in entire harmony with the
spirit of bankrupt laws, the binding force of which, upon those
who are subject to the jurisdiction, is recognized by all civilized nations. It is not in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States, which, although prohibiting States from
passing laws impairing the obligation of contracts, allows Congress "to establish . . uniform laws on the subject of
bankruptcy throughout the"United States." Unless all parties
in interest, wherever they reside, can be bound by the arrangeinent which it is sought to have legalized the scheme may fail.
All home creditors can be bound. What is needed is to bind
those who are abroad. Under these circumstances the true
spirit of international comity requires that schemes of this
character, legalized at home, should be recognized in other
countries. The fact that the bonds made in Canada were payable in New York is unimportant, except in determining by
what law the parties intended their contract should be governed ; and every citizen of a country, other than that in which
the corporation is located, may protect himself against all unjust legislation of the foreign government by refusing to deal
with its corporations
On the whole, we are satisfied that the scheme of arrangement bound the defendants in error, and that these actions cannot be maintained. The same result was reached by the
Court of Queen's Bench in the Province of Ontario, when pass-

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

ing on a similar statute in Jones v. Tle Canada Central Ralway Company, supra.
TXejudgment8 are reversed and the causes remanded, uit insruction to enterjudgment on the fact found infavor of
the railway company in each of the cae.
MN-. JusTio

HAP.LAN, dissenting.-The Canada Southern

Railway Company is a corporation created and organized under
the laws of the Dominion of Canada. It was given, by its charter, power to borrow in Canada "or elsewhere," at a rate of
interest not exceeding eight per cent. per annum, such sums of
money as might be necessary to complete, maintain, or work
its railway; to issue bonds therefor, payable either in currency
or in sterling, at such place, within Canada "or without," as
might be deemed advisable; to sell the same at such prices or
discount as might be deemed expedient or necessary; and to
hypothecate, mortgage, or pledge the lands, tolls, revenues, and
other property of the company for the payment of the said
sums and the interest thereon.

In pursuance of the authority thus conferred, the company,
in 1871, issued its bonds in the customary form of negotiable
securities, and made them payable in the year 1906, at the
office of the Union Trust Company in the city of New ,York,
with interest at the rate of seven per cent. per annum, coupons
being given for such interest. These bonds, with their interest,
were secured by a deed of trust to Win. L. Scott and Kenyon
Cox, citizens of the United States, conveying to them and
their successors in the trust, the railway of the company, its
lands, tolls, revenues present and future, property, effects,
franchises, and appurtenances. That deed declared that the
bonds, and also the rights and benefits arising therefrom, should
pass by delivery
In 1873 the companyr issued certain bonds, of the denomination of $105 each, for the purpose of funding unpaid coupons.
They were made payable, principal and interest, in gold, at t6e
office of the Union Trust Company in the city of New York.
In order to effect this arrangement for funding, the latter company was made a trustee to deliver the bonds of $105 each to

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBHARD.

541

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

the parties surrendering the unpaid coupons. Of some of these
bonds defendants in error, who are citizens of New York, became the holders. They were delivered to them at the city of
New York. Upon their non-payment at maturity, the present
suits at law were brought in one of the courts of that State,
and judgment asked for the amount of the bonds. The railway
company appeared, and upon its petition the suits were removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York. In the latter court an
answer was filed, to which the plaintiff demurred. The demurrer being sustained and the company declining to answer
further, judgment was rendered for the amount due on the
bonds in suit.
What is the defence which my brethren have declared to be
sufficient to deprive the plaintiffs of their right to judgment?
That the company had paid the bonds in suit, in whole or in
part'? No. That, by the terms of the contract, it was discharged from liability to pay them? By no means. Its
defence is placed wholly upon an act of the Parliament of
Canada ratifying a certain scheme or arrangement, which is inconsistent with the contract between the parties, and to which
a large minority of the bondholders and stockholders have
never given their assent. That scheme provided for the surrender of the old bonds, bearing seven per cent. interest ind
the substitution of other bonds, maturing at a later date, and
bearing a less rate of interest-three per cent. for the first
three years, and five per cent. thereafter, the interest on the
new bonds being guaranteed by the New York and Hudson
River Railroad Company.
To this scheme the circuit court finds as a fact that the plaintiffs never assented. They stood, as they had the right to do,
upon their contract with the company. But the Parliament of
Canada declares that this scheme "sluzil be deemed to have
been assented to by all the holders of the original first mortgage bonds of the company," and that this arrangement "8/tall
be ldndng upon a1Z the holders of the first and second inortgage bonds and coupons and bonds for interest thereon respectively, and upon all the shareholders of the company."

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

This defence, asserting the power of a foreign government,
by its legislation, to destroy the contract rights of citizens of
the United States, was well characterized, as it seems to me, by
the learned circuit judge who tried this case, as a most extraordinary one to be made in a country where the obligation of
contracts against impairment by legislative enactment, as well
as the.rights of persons and property, are carefully guarded by
constitutional provisions. In this country, no State can pass
any law impairing -the .obligation of contracts; the Constitution of the United States forbids such legislation. And the
principle is founded in justice, independently of this constitutional provision. The statute of Canada here relied on disregards this principle, and openly and in terms impairs the obligation of the contract which each holder of these bonds has
with this foreign railway company. It assumes, without a
hearing and without the consent of those who hold its bonds,
to discharge the railway company from all liability thereon.
If any State in this Union should assume to pass a law with
reference to a railway corporation she had created, requiring
the holders of its bonds, for which they had paid value, to surrender them and take in their place others of less value, and
payable at a different time, our courts, federal and State,
would be ebustrained, by their obligation to support the Con'stitution of the United States, to declare such legislation to be
in conflict with that instrument. More than that, a citizen of
Canada, or even a railway corporation of that Dominion, could
have'the benefit, in our courts, of the constitutional inhibition
upon State laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
In the Sinking Fund Cases, 99 U. S.718, 719, we said that
while the United States are not included within the constitutional
prohibition which prevents States from passing laws impairing
the obligation of contracts, yet "equally with the States they
are prohibited from depriving persons or corporations of property without due process of law. They cannot legislate back
to themselves, without making compensation, the lands they
have given this corporation to aid in the construction of its
railroad. Neither can they by legislation compel the corporation to discharge its obligations in respect to the subsidy bonds-

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v.GEBHARD.

543

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

otherwise than according to the laws of the contract already
made in that connection. The United States are as much
bound by their contracts as are individuals. If they repudiate
their obligations, it is as much repudiation, with all the wrong
and reproach that term implies, as it would be if the repudiator
had been a State, or a municipality, or a citizen. No change
can be made in the title created by the grant of the lands, or
in the contract for the subsidy bonds, without the consent of
the corporation."
]But the laws of Canada, by the judgment now rendered, are
given effect here, to the injury of our own citizens, notwithstanding those laws arbitrarily deprive them of their contract
rights. This railroad company, under express authority conferred by its charter, executed bonds payable, as we have seen,
in New York, and secured them by mortgage executed to citizens of the United States. It sent them to this country for
sale and our people invested their money in them. Intrenched
behind the arbitrary edict of a foreign government, it now says
to American holders of its.bonds, that it will not comply with
its contract-that if they do not surrender those securities and
take others of less value, they shall not receive anything.
It is claimed by my brethren that the Canada statute provides a scheme which, in its practical effect, resembles a composition in bankruptcy. It seems to me that there are several
answers to this suggestion: 1. It does not purport to be a
scheme of bankruptcy in the sense of the word bankruptcy as
used either in England or America. 2. It is unlike a composition in bankruptcy in this: that whereas a composition is never
had except upon notice, so that creditors may have their day
in court, with opportunity to show that the proposed composition should not be made, here no such opportunity was given
to the holders of this company's bonds, in any court or other
tribunal, to show that the arrangement which the Canadian
parliament sanctioned ought not, in justice, to be made; but
the arrangement was, by legislative enactment, made absolutely
binding upon every bondholder and stockholder, even those
*ho are citizens of other countries.
It is said that the Canadian scheme is practically nothing

OCTOBER TERM, 1883.
Dissenting Opinion': Harlan, J.

more than might be accomplished in foreclosure proceedings
instituted in one of our own courts by or at the intance of the
assenting bondholders. My answer is, that all bondholders and
stockholders have their day in court, in such proceedings; and,
when upon the judicial sale of a railway and its appurtenances,
they fail to realize the full amount of their claim., they are not
deprived of their property without due process of law.
Reference is made by the court to the act of the English
parliament which authorizes such arrangements to be effected
through courts of chancery. But, in such proceedings, all interested have their day in court, with opportunity to show that
the proposed scheme should not receive judicial sanction.
In my judgment, the discharge in Canada, by statute, of this
foreign railway company from all obligation to pay these bonds
according to their terms-whatever may be the binding force
of such legislation upon persons resident in that country, or
upon those who may assert their rights under the original contract in the courts of Canada-can have no extra-territorial
effect; certainly none as to persons who reside in a different
State or country, where the contract is to be performed, and in
the courts of which it becomes the subject of litigation.
In Baldwin v. Hrale, 1 Wall. 223, it was held that a discharge obtained under the insolvent law of one State Qf the
Union is not a bar to an action on a note even when given in
and payable in the same State, the party to whom the note
was given having been and being of a different State. Story,
in his Conflict of Laws, says that should a State provide that
the discharge of an insolvent debtor under her own laws was a"
discharge of all his contracts, even of those made in a foreign
country, such a discharge, although binding upon the courts of
that State, would or might be mere nullities in other countries.
§ 348. Chancellor Kent, referring.to State insolvent laws, in
operation when there is no national bankrupt statute, says:
"The discharge under a State law is no bar to a suit on a contract existing when the law was passed, nor to an action by a citizen of another State in the courts of the United States, dr of any
other State than that where the discharge was obtained. The

CANADA .SOUTHERY R. CO. v. GEBH§kRD.

545

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

discharge under a State law will not discharge a debt due to a
citizen of another State who does not make himself a party to a
proceeding under the law. It will only operate upon contracts
made within the State between its own citizens or suitors, subject
to State power. The doctrine of the Supreme Court of the
United States in Ogden v. Saunders is, that a discharge under
the bankrupt law of one country does not affect contracts made or
to be executed in another." 2 Kent, p. 392-3.
Such is the unvarying current of authority in this country.
If a discharge by an insolvent law of one of the United States
does not affect the contract rights of citizens of another State,
how much stronger is the case where, by the terms of the contract, it is to be performed in a State or country other than
that in which the discharge is granted. A[y brethren suggest,
if I do not misapprehend their opinion, that the parties here
suing must be understood to have purchased these bonds with
reference to the power which the Canadian government has
over corporations of its own creation. But this view, it seems
to me, overlooks the principle, founded, says Story, in natural
justice- -and applicable here even if the bonds in suit had been
purchased and delivered in Canada-that "where the contract
is, either expressly or tacitly, to be performed in another place
than where made, the rule is, in conformity with the.presumed
intention of the parties, that the contract, as to its validity,
nature, obligation, and interpretation, is to be governed by the
law of the place of performance." Story, Conflict of Laws,
§ 280; Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65; Cook v. -Yofatt, 5 How.
307: Why should it not be presumed that the parties to these
contracts made them with reference as well to that principle as
to another principle which is thus forcibly stated by Kent ?
"The laws of other governments have no force beyond their
territorial limits ; and if permitted to operate in other States, it
is upon a principle of comity, and only when neither the State
nor its citizens would suffer any inconvenience from the application of the foreign law." 2 Kent, 406.
Story announces the same doctrine in the following language:
VOL. CIX-85

OCTOBER TERM, 183.
Dissenting Opinion, Harlan, J.
"And even in relation to a discharge according to the laws of
the place where the contract is made, there are (as we have seen)
some necessary limitations and exceptions ingrafted 'upon the
general doctrine which every country will enforce, whenever
those laws are manifestly unjust, or are injurious to the fair
rights of its own citizens. It has been said by a learned judge
with great force : 'As the laws of foreign countries are not admitted ex proprio vigore, but merely ex comitate, the judicial
power will exercise a discretion with respect to the laws which
they may be called upon to sanction ; for should they be manifestly unjust, or calculated to injure their own citizens, they
ought to be rejected. Thus, if any State should enact that its
citizens should be discharged from all debts due to creditors living without the State, such a provision would be so contrary to
tl' . common principles of justice that the most liberal spirit of
comity would not require its adoption in any other State.'"
In Burgess' Commentaries on Colonial and Foreign Laws,
vol. 1, p. 5, the author says:
"It is established as a principle of international jurisprudence
that effect should be given to the laws of another State whenever
the rights of a litigant before its tribunals are derived from, or
are dependent on; those laws, and when such, recognition is not
prejudicial to its own interests or the rights of its own subjects."
The same view is thus expressed by another American
author:
"It [the State] must consult sound morals and the interests
and public policy of its.own people, and if to enforce the laws of
another State or country would lead to their infringement, it
would be treacherous to its own duties to lend aid to their execution." 1 Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, § 866.
In S mitA v. Bucanan, 1 East, 6, 11, the question was
whether a discharge of an English contract under an insolvent
act of the State of Maryland, where the debtor resided, was a
bar to a suit upon that contract in the courts of England. The
point was there made that the discharge under the laws of

Maryland was analogous and equivalent to a certificate of bank.

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v GEBHIARD.

54'7

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan j.

ruptcy in England; and- having been issued by a competent
jurisdiction in the case 6f subjects of Maryland residing there
at the time, though it had not the binding force of law in England, yet the corts there should give effect to it " by adoption
and courtesy of nations." But to that argument the court,
speaking by, Lord, Kenyon, said:
"This is the case of a contract lawfully mnade.,by a subject in.
this country, which he resorts to a court Qf justice to enforce;
and the only answer is that a law 1Ias been made in a foreign
country to discharge these defendants from. their debts on condition of their having relhquished all their property to their creditors." "But hiow," said 'he, "isthat an amswer to a subject of
this country, suing; on a lawful contract maae here? How can it
be pret9nded he iq boundlby a condition fo which he has given!.
no assent either express orlimplicd?" " In -America," adds Story,
referring to that ease, "t h same doctrine has obtained the fullest
sanction." St"ory on Conflict of Laws, q 342.
So also. in Bartley v. Hodgeq, 1 Best & Smith, 315, where
the defendant pleaded, in a court pf Engl~nd, an insolvent discharge under the laws of Victoria, a Briti~h colony. The court
said:
"No case has beqn cited to show that a discharge under the insolvent laws of Victoria is an answer to an action here, brought
by an English subject on a bill of exchahge drawn and payable in
England. . . , It is true that the colony of Victoria is not a
foreign country in one sense of the word, yet its laws are the laws
of tllat colony only.

.

.

.

It might as well be said that the

laws 'ofthe State of Maryland would apply here."
So also in P1'illips v. Alan, 8 B. & C. 0,t7, it was held that
an inscvent discharge under the laws of .Scotland was no bar
to an antion brought by an English subjept in a court in England on a debt contracted in England, although it appeared'
that the Englsh creditor had appeared in the Scottish proceedings for the purpqsRe only of opposing the discharge.
The case, then, before us is one in which a foreign railway
corporation pleads in discharge of its liability to pay its, nego-

OCTOBER TERM,

1883.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, J.

tiable securities, held by citizens of the United States, and
which were delivered and are payable in this country, not that
it had paid such securities; not that there had been a composition in bankruptcy embracing these claims; not that any court
had given its sanction to the scheme in question but that a
statute of a foreign country, without the consent of those who
did not .approve such scheme, and without giving an opportunity before any authorized tribunal to show that such scheme
ought not to be ratified, had absolved it from liability to meet
its contract engagements. This defence my brethren feel
obliged, upon grounds of international comity, to sustain. Thus
an American court denies to American holders of foreign
railway securities what an English- court would not d6ny to English holders of American railway securities. An English court
would not.permit the rights of Englishmen, growing out of a
contract between them and a foreign corporation, which is to
be performed in England, to be injuriously affected by foreign
laws in violation of the terms of that contract. I fully concur
,in what the circuit judge said:
"If any of our own States had passed such an act as the one
under consideration, it would have been the duty of the courts
of that State to treat it as an unlawful exercise of power ; and
certainly it cannot be expected that this court will tolerate legislation by a foreign State which it would not sanction if passed
here, and which, if allowed to operate, would seriously prejudice
the rights of a citizen of this State. Comity can ask no recognition
of such unjust foreign legislation, and, the case falls, under the
qualifications of a general rule, which prescribes that when the
foreign law is repugnant to the fundamental principle of the lex
.fori, it will be ignored."
The principles for which I contend are not affected, in their
application to this case, by the circumstance that the legislalation of Canada relates to the contracts of a quasi public corporation; and not to contracts wholly between individuals. For,
in determining whether a statute impairs' the-obligation of a
contract, within the meaning of .our Constitution, it must be
conceded that that instrument protects such obligation against

CANADA SOUTHERN R. CO. v. GEBIIARD.

549

Dissenting Opinion: Hlarlan, J.

legislative impairment as well in cases of contracts with railway corporations as of contracts between individuals. It is
equally clear that. debts held against such corporations are
property *zf which the citizen may not be deprived without
due process of law. We said in Pitcka ' v. Norton, 106
U. S. 132, that "a vested right of action is property in the
same sense in which tangible things are proierty, and is equally
protected against arbitrary interference. Whether it springs
from contract or from the principles of the common law, it is
not competent for the legislature to take it away." Railway
corporations are, undoubtedly, public instrumentalities employed by government to accomplish public purposes. But in
this country the legislative department may not, under the
guise of regulating such corporations, arbitrarily' deprive creditors of the benefit of their claims against them, or impair the
obligation of contracts which individuals have with them.
This, perhaps, would not be disputed were this a contest between American citizens, or even citizens of Canada, and an
American railway corporation.
As I do not think that a foreign railway corporation is entitled, upon principles of international comity, to have thG
benefit, in our courts-to the prejudice of our own people and
in violation of their contract and property rights-of a foreign
statute which could not be sustained had it been enacted by
Congress or by any one of the United States, with reference
to the negotiable securities of an American railway corporation;
and, as I do not agree that an American court should accord
to a foreign railway corporation the privilege of repudiating
its contract obligations to American citizens, when it must
deny any such privilege under like circumstances, to our own
railway corporations, I dissent from the opinion and judgment
of the court.
Mn. JusTio FiELD, not being present at the argument of this
case, took no part in the decision.

