DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Eoehle&vs. Black River Falls Iron

715

ompany.

KOE LER vs. THE BLACK RIVER FALLS IRON Co mpArY.
1. An instriment purporting to be a mortgage, made by a corpora.
tion, is not a legal mortgage, and a bill to foreclose it as such
cannot be sustained unlesss it be sealed with the corporate seal
of the mortgagor.
2 The mere fact that such a mortgage-deed has the corporate seal
attached to it, does not make it the act of the corporation if
the seal was not affixed by a person duly authorized.
8. The presumption is, that the seal was rightfully affixed to a deed,
or other instrument, on which it appears; but that presumption is not conclusive, and may be repelled by parol evidence.
4 Where it is proved that the officers who executed a mortgage did
not seal it then nor afterwards; that the officer who had the
seal in his custody never affixed it nor authorized another to
do so, and that the mortgage was xecorded without a seal, the
burden is thrown on the mortgagee to prove that it was pro-perly sealed, and if he fails the conclusion of law is, that the
seal was wrongfilly and fraudulently affixed.
5. A mortgagee whose bill seeks a foreclosure, on the sole ground
that the mortgage is a legal one, cannot be decreed an equitable mortgagee, unless he files a new bill in which his equitable
rights are set forth.
6. The officers and directors of a corporate body are trustees of the
stockholders, and in securing to themselves an advantage not
common to all the stockholders, they commit a plain breach
of duty.
Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin.
Mr. Carlisleof Washington City for appellant
Mr.Doolittle of Wisconsin.

Contra.

Mr. Justice D)AVIS. This was a bill in chancery, brought in
the District Court of Wisconsin by Jacob Koehler, Daniel
Koehler, and Harry Pfiffner against the "Black River Falls Iron
Company," to forclose a mortgage.

SUPREME COURT.
Koehler vs. Black River Falls Iron Company.
The bill alleges that, on the 13th of August, 1858, at La
Crosse, in Wisconsin, the "Black River Falls Iron Company"a corporation created by the laws of Wisconsin-executed and
delivered their promissory note to Daniel Koehler and Caspar
Bircher for $15,000, payable in nine month, to secure which a
mortgage of even date, under the corporate seal, was also executed and delivered-which mortgage was witnessed, acknowledged, and recorded; that on the 21st day of September, 1858,
Casper Bircher, by an instrument of writing under seal, for the
consideration of $7,000, transferred to Jacob Koehler and Henry
Pfiffner his interest in said note and mortgage, which was also
witnessed, acknowledged, and recorded; and that the note and
mozgage being over due and unpaid, the aid of the Court is
asked to.decree a foreclosure.
William M. Hubby, having filed his petition stating that he
was a stockholder, and that in his opinion theidirectors did not
intend to make defence, was allowed to appear and defend.
Leave was given to the complainants to amend their bill so as to
make Julius W. Haas and others, junior mortgagees, party defendants. Answers and replications were filed, proofs taken,
and the cause was heard at the October Term, 1860. The Court
dismissed the bill without prejudice and the complainauts appealed.
The answers deny that the "Black River Falls Iron Company"
ever executed under its corporate seal this mortgage, which
denial, if sustained by the evidence, is decisive of this case. If
the seal of the corporation was not affixed to the instrument by
proper authority, but was surreptitiously obtained, then the deed
is not the deed of the corporation, was not duly executed as the
bill charges, and is not a legal mortgage, and cannot be fore
closed as such.
The mere fact that a deed has the corporate seal attached,
does not make it the act of the corporation, unless-the seal was
placed to it by some one duly authorized. Jackson vs. Campbell,
(5 Wendell, 572); Damon vs. Granby, (2 Pick.,345, 353); Bank
of Ireland vs. Evan, (32 Eng. L. & E., 23); (Angell and Ames ou
Corporations, Sec. 223).

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

717

Koehler vs. Black River Falls Iron Conpany.

This mortgage had the corporate seal attached, and the -presumption was that it -was there rightfully, and the Court properly
admitted it to be read in evidence; but the presumption thus
raised was not conclusive, and parol evidence was admissibli to
overthrow it. St. AMhry's Church, (7 Serg. & R, 530); Berks
Dauphin Turnpike vs. MAyers, (6 Serg. & R., 16.)

The evidence is conclusive thalhez! pgorate s alal aaX-d
to the mortgage wrong~umy.
- Themortgage purports to have been executed on-the i3thof
August, 1858, and signed by Charles Hauser, piesident, and J.
M. Levy, Secretary pro tem., who both swear -that the corporate
-seal was not present, that they did not then, nor did they-evei
place the seal to the instrument, and have no knowledge how it
came to be sealed. It was recorded shortly after being given,
and no seal was to it.
Henry Richter, the secretary of the company, was the custodian of the seal, and testifies that he was not present when the
mortgage was given, that he had the seal in his possession; and
did not then, or at any time afterwards, affix the seal or authorize any one to do it for him.
When the d~fendants proved that neither the President nor
the Secretary pro tern., who signed the mortgage, nor .the regular
Secretary, who was the rightful custodian of the seal, had any
knowledge of the way in which the mortgage became sealed,
then the burden of proof was thrown on the complainants to
show the circumstances under which the instrument was in fact
sealed, and that it was rightfully and properly done.
Failing to do so, the conclusion isirresistible, that the seal.
was fraudulently abstracted from the lawful custodian of it, and
wrongfully affixed to the mortgage.
The Revised Statutes of Wisconsin of 1849 were in force when
this mortgage was given, and section 1 of chapter 59 prescribes
the manner in which conveyances of real estate can be made,
and it is as follows:
"Conveyances of lands or of any estate or interest therein may
be made by deed, signed and sealed by the person from 'whom
the estate or interest is intended to pass, being of lawful age, or

SUPREME COURT.
Koehler vs. Black River Falls Iron Campany
by his lawful agent or attorney, and acknowledged or proved
and recorded as directed in this chapter, without any other cere
mony whatever."
Section 30 of this same chapter defines what is meant by conveyances as thus used, and is as follows:
"The term conveyance, as used in this chapter, shall be construed to embrace every instrument in writing by which any
estate or interest in real estate is created, aliened, mortgaged or
assigned, or by which the title to any real estate may be affected
in law or equity, except wills, leases for a term not exceeding
three years, and executory contracts for the sale or purchase of
lands."
*" mortgage, not having been sealed by the Iron Company
or unc.,r its authority, was not executed in conformity with law,
and is therefore invalid and of no force and effect as a legal
mortgage.
It is argued, that if not a legal m6rtgage, it is an equitable
one, and that the Court should not have dismissed the bill, but
granted such relief as equity could give. But this bill seeks a
foreclosure on the sole ground that a legal mortgage was given.
If the complainants have any rights under this instrument as
an equitable mortgage, they can be tested, on a proper bill filed,
in another suit.
The defendants in their-answers further insist that this mortgage was given without authority of law and by fraud and
collusion on the part of the directors.
The Black River Falls Iron Company was incorporated bythe
General Assembly of Wisconsin March 31st, 1856, to explore
for minerals, and to mine, manufacture, and vend them. The
administration of the affairs of the Company was lodged in the
hands of directors chosen from the -stockholders to hold office
for one year, and to be controlled by the rules and by-laws
adopted by the stockholders. The power to sell and mortgage,
and procure i. coommon seal, was given.

By-laws were adopted, fixing the place of business at New
Danemora, Jackson County, limiting the number of directors to
five, %vho should appoint a secretary having no vote, and pro

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

719

oehler vs. Black River Falls Iron Company.
viding "that all documents, orders for the payment of money
and receipts, to be valid, must be signed by the President and
Secretary."
A stockholders' meeting was held May 19th, 1858, and. the
following memorandum was entered among the minutes: "May
19th, afternoon session-'Mr. C. W. Schmidt makes the motion
that the directory hereafter to be appointed shall be authorized
to endeavor before all, the effecting of a loan of the highest
possible amount, and in case of success to close it, and they are
empowered to incumber for the same the works with buildings
and appertaining lands, carried." At the same meeting a board
of directors was elected, to wit: Charles Hauser, President, and
John C. Fuhr, H. Pfiffner, Jacob Koehler, and John M-. Levy,
who chose Henry Richter as Secretary.
The Company was evidently embarrassed and in great need
of money, and as the necessity was urgent and pressing the
directors were instructed (neglecting all other business) to obtain
as large a loan as they could, and to secure it by a mortgage on
the lands and works. The stockholders clearly contemplated a
loan of money to carry on their business, and if a loan could
not be affected without real security, power to mortgage was
given to the directors. No authority was given to them to
secure pre-existing indebtedness, and certainly none to secure
themselves in preference to other creditors.
Did these directors, as guardians of an important trust committed to their caro, endeavor, in good faith, to accomplish the
object which their principals so much desired?
They met on the 13th day of August, 1858. at, La Crosse, and
not at their usual place of business, and failed- to notify their
regular secretary, who had the records in his charge, and who
had acted as secretary since the organization of the Company,
to attend. No reason is assigned why the secretary was not
notified, but as he was a large creditor, and was not to be favored,
it is barely possible that the directors thought his presence would
be embarrassing.
As the by-laws required that all instruments of writing should
be signed by the president and secretary, it was found necessary

SUPREME COURT
Koehler vs. Black River Falls Iron Company.
to appoint a secretary pro tern., and one of the directors was
selected, who, unlike the regular secretary, was fortunate enough
to have his debt provided for.
A note and mortgage were given to Daniel Koehler and.
Caspar Bircher for $15,000, who were to let the company havc
$1,200 in money, and $800 in provisions, and to pay the fol
lowing debts of the corporation:
Metzer, Koehler & Swab, a note and interest,
John C. Fuhr,
• Jacob Koehler,
John M. Levy, two notes and interest, .
Less $124 charged,

$3,570
1,900
1,256
$2,528
124--

2,404.

John C. Fuhr, Jacob Koehler, and John M. Levy, who were
so lucky as to have their debts to the amount of $5,500 provided
for, were themselves directors, and it might be inferred that
Koehler, the director, was interested in the firm of- Metzer.
Koehler & Swab, but there is no evidence of it. It is a little
singular that the mortgagees, in order to get security for the
$2,000 which they agreed to advance, were willing to assume
the payment of $9,130. Such is not the usual course of dealing
with those who in good faith make a4vancements and require security. The mortgage was signed and delivered by
Hauser, the president, to Koehler, the director, for the mortgagees, who were neither of them present, and who did not
actually make the advancements in money or provisions until
some time afterwards. And Bircher, one of the mortgagees, as
if to fix the true character of this transaction beyond cavil, in a
few weeks from the giving of the deed, for the expressed consideration of $7,000, transfers his entire interest to Koehler and
Pfiffner, two of the directors. Instead of honestly endeavoring
to effect a loan of money, advantageously, for the benefit of the
corporation, these directors, in violation of their duty, and in
betrayal of their trust, secured their own debts, to the injury of
the stockholders and creditors. Directors cannot thus deal with
the important interests entrusted to their management. They
hoTd a'place of trust, and by accepting the trust are obliged to

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

721

Mesa vs. The United States.
execute it with fidelity, not for their bwn benefit. but for the
common benefit of the stockholders of the corporation.
In executing this mortgage, and thereby securing to them.
selves advantages which were not common to all the stock.
holders, they were guilty of an unauthorized act, and violated
a plain principle of equity applicable to trustees. "The
directors are the trustees or managing partners, and the stockholders are the cestuis que trust, and have a joint interest in
all the property and effects of the corporation, and no injury
that the stockholders may sustain by a fraudulent breach of
trust can, upon the general principles of equity, be suffered to
pass without a remedy."
Angel & Ames on corporations, edition 1861, sec. 312. The
Charitable Corporationvs. Sutton, (2 Atkyns, 404.) Robinson vs.
Smith, (3 Paige, 220.) Hodges vs. New England Screw Co., (1
Rhode Island, 321.) Y'nrk and North Midland Railway Co. vs.
udson, (19 Eng. L. & E., 361.)
The decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

MESA. vs. THE UNITED STATES.

1. An appeal must be prosecuted by filing the record within the
term next after the appeal is taken.
2. If it be brought up and filed after the first term has gone by,
the appeal will be dismissed.
This was a California land case, in which an appeal had beeni
taken by the claimant and one Clark, an intervenor. The
appellants suffered a term to pass without filing a copy of the
record in this Court, but at the second term brought up the
transcript and had it docketed.
Mr. Glillet, of Washington City moved that the appeal be
dismissed.
Mr. Magraw, of Pennsylvania; and Mr. McDougall of Califor.
aia, opposed the motion.
voL. Ii.

46

