SUPREME COURT.
Bronson vg. Railroad Company.

BRo SoN vs. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Where a Railroad Company, at different times, executed two mortgages on distinct portions of its road, to secure the debts of
separate creditors, one mortgagee is not necessarily a party to
a suit which the other may bring against the Company to
foreclose his mortgage.
2. A purchaser of part of the road, including stock, machinery,
franchises, &c., of tho entire road, under the elder mortgage,
cannot intervene, in a suit brought against the Company, by
a junior mortgagee, for the purpose of keeping down the
amount of the decree.
3. Such purchaser will not be permitted to intervene, and move the
dismissal of an appeal takpn by the junior mortgagee, though
he show an agreement between the appellant and the appellee
to increase the amount of the decree one hundred per cent.
above what was found to be due in the Court below.
o. If the sale under the first mortgage was regular, and the property
sold was covered by the mortgage, the purchaser has a good
title, and it can make no difference to him whether the junior
mortgagee gets a decree for little or much-his right is not dependent on the decree.
5. If any portion of the Company's property is claimed to be covered by both mortgages, that raises a question which cannot
be determined in a suit for foreclosure brought by one of
them.
6. General creditors, having no specific lien, have not a right to interfere in the contest between the debtor and third parties.
7. A decree for the sale of mortgaged premises is a final decree
from which an appeal lies.
S. The right of a morgagee to appeal from a decree, with which he
is dissatisfied, cannot be suspended by cross bills between other
parties contesting matters with which the mortgagee has no
concern.
This case was brought here by appeal from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Wisconsin. It was a b]l
in equity brought by Greene C. Bronson and James A. Soutter

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

525

Bronson vs. Bailroad Company.

trustee, &c., against the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, and divers other defendants, creditors of that corporation.
The Circuit Court made a decree in favor of the plaintiffs for
one-.alf the amount of their claim, $565,260.05. From this decree
the plaintiffs appealed. After the case came here on appeal, the
parties made an agreement that the decree of the Court below
should be reversed and a decree entered for the whole amount
of the claim, that is to say, for a sum twice as large as that found
to be due by the Circuit Court. F. P. James, Isaac Seymour,
and N. A. Cowdrey moved, for leave to intervene in the cause
so as to protect their interests. They were creditors of the
Railroad Company and purchasers of part of the road, stock
and franchises, and alleged that the agreement to increase the
amount of the decree was made with the fraudulent intent to
injure them. The motions for leave to intervene and to dismiss
the appeal, were made at the same time, were founded upon the
affidavits of which the substance is given by Mr. Justice Davis
and were a.rgued together.
Mr.Black, of Pennsylvania, in support of the motion.
Hrt. Ewing, of Ohio, and Mr. Carlisle,of Washington City, for
the Appellants.
Mr. Justice DAVIS. F. P. James, Isaac Seymour, and N. A.
Cowdrey ask leave to intervene in this cause, and to dismiss the
appeal, and predicate their motion on two affidavits of F. P.
James.
The first affidavit states substantially that on.the 31st of December, 1856, the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company
executed a mortgage on the western division of their road, lying
between Portage and La Crosse, to Greene C. Bronson, James A.
Soutter, and Shepard Knapp, as trustees, to secure certain bonds,
which mortgage was afterwards foreclosed in the District Court
of Wisconsin, and the mortgaged property sold, and'purchased
by the parties asking to intervene; that the same Railroad
Company, on the 17th day of August, 1857, executed another

SUPREME COURT
Bronson vs. Railroad Company.
mortgage to these complainants, Bronson and Soutter, on the
eastern division of their road, lying between Portage and Milwaukee, to secure certain other bonds; that suit was also brought
on said mortage in thc District. Court of Wisconsin, where a
decrec was passed on the 13th day of January, 1862, for onehalf of the face of the bonds, from which decree an appeal was
taken by Bronson and Soutter to this Court; and that the
parties to the suit have entered into fraudulent stipulations to
reform the decree rendered below, so that the bonds will be paid
in full, and that James Cowdrey and Seymour, as purchasers
under the first mortgage, wilL-be injured if the decree is thus
reformed.
The second affidavit states that Nathaniel S. Bouton, on the
5th day of April, 1859, recovered a judgment in the same District Court for upwards of $7,000 against the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Railroad Company, which judgment was assigned to
F. P James & Co., and was a lien when this suit was instituted,
and that neither Bouton nor his assignees were notified of the
pendency of these proceedings; that there were issued under
the mortgage of Dec 3mber 31st, 1856, bonds to the nominal or
par value of $4,000,000, the greater portion of which are held
by James and his associates in their own right or in trust for
others, and that they have by the advice of counsel determined
to abandon their purchase and ask for a re-sale of the whole
property mortg.ged by the deed of December 31st, 1856.
Have Jantes, Seymour, and Cowdrey, a right to intervene in
this cause, to make a motion to dismiss this appeal, or for any
other purpose? The La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad is a
corporation created by the laws of Wisconsin to build a continuous line of railroad from the City of Nfilwaukie, on Lake
M'ichigan, to La Crosse on the Mississippi River. Power was
givenl to the Company to mortgage separate portions of their
road, and in execution of that power the mortgage of December
31st. 1856, on the western division, and the mortgage of August
17th, 1857, on the eastern division were given. These mortgages
were executed to secure specific liens on different partsof the
road, and the bondholders evidently relied on these liens alone

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

527

Bronson vs, Railroad Company.
for their security. Separate suits were brought at different
times to foreclose these mortgages, and the parties in one suit
were not necessarily parties in the other. The right, to intervene as made by the first affidavit rests solely on the ground
that James and his associates were purchasers of the western
division of the road, which, as they insist, included "the personal property, machinery, rolling stock, franchises, rights, and
privileges of the entire road2'
This Court cannot in this suit decide whether the construction
contended for by these parties as to the extent of their purchase
is correct or not. Under the pleadings, no question is or could
have been raised as to what property is covered by the mortgage
deed. The controversy in the Court below was whether there
should be a decree nisi for any amount, and if so how much.
The Court in fixing the amount due on the mortgage, estimated
the bonds not at par, but at the rate of fifty cents on the dollar,
and decreed accordingly, and the complainants below appealed.
It is not perceived how the stipulation to reform the decree can
affect the right of James & Co., to the claim which they advance.
If under their purchase they take the rolling stock and franchises
of the whole road, what concern is it to them whether the decree is for $500,000, or $1,000,000 ?
Such a right is surely not dependent on the amount of the
decree. But it is claimed, in the second affidavit, that Bouton,
a judgment creditor, having lien, and necessarilly a party, had
no notice of the pendency of this suit. The answer to this statement is, that the record informs us (p. 297) that Bouton did
appear by attorney, and consented that a decree might be
rendered pursuant to the prayer in the bill.
•
One other ground remains on which the right to intervene is
placed-that of general creditors. James and his associates,
owning a large portion of the bonds secured by the lien of the
first mortgage, insist that the mortgage is an insufficient security.
and that they are, therefore, interested. in lessening the amount
of the decree to be rendered in this cause. Every creditor is,
of course, concerned that his debtor should reduce his obligations. The less the debtor owes the greater his ability to pay.

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson vs. Railroad Company.
But was it ever seriously maintained that a general creditor,
having no specific lien, had a right to interfere in the contests
between his debtor and third parties? If the general creditors
of a mortgagor are suffered to intervene in an appell.te tribunal,
this Court would become the triers of questions of fact outside
of the record, and that too on ex parte affidavits-by no means
the best mode of ascertaining truth.
If the right was conceded to one creditor it would have to be
to another, and where the creditors are numerous, as in the case
of railroad bondholders, the exercise of the right would lead to
great embarrassment.
If, as is charged, the parties to this suit have made agreements
in fraud of the law, or rights of third persons, the Circuit Court
of Wisconsin can give relief in a suit instituted there for that
purpose, where testimony can be taken, and the valuable right
of cross-examination at the same time preserved. In any casewhere it is apprehended that the parties to the record seek to
dispose of it by stipulations fraudulently made, and which will
affect injuriously the rights of others-the Court will respectfully hear and consider suggestions, and will endeavor to protect
itself from imposition, and prevent the wrong that is contemplated.
But the Court cannot lay down any general rule of practice
by which it will be governed, for each case must depend on its
own circumstances.
The motion is overruled.
At a subsequent day of the term a motion was made by one
of the persons who was a joint defendant with the La Crosse and
Milwaukie Railroad Company, to dismiss the appeal on the
ground that the decree of the Court below was not final.
Mr. Carpenter, of Wisconsin, in support of the motion.
Mr. Ewing and Hr. 0arlisle,contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS. This case is again before us. A motion

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

529

Bronson vs. Railroad Company.
isnow made by one of the defendants to dismiss the appeal,
because there was no final decree in the meaning of the Act of
Congress which authorizes this Court to exercise appellate
jurisdiction only by appeal, or writ of error from afinal judg
ment or decree.
This is a suit in equity brought by Bronson & Soutter in the
District Court of Wisconsin to foreclose a second mortgage,
given by the La Crosse and Milwaukie Railroad Company, to
secure a large issue of bonds. The company being in arrears
for interest, Bronson & Soutter sought the aid of a Court of
Equity to enforce their trust.. Numerous, persons were made
defendants, who had, or were supposed to have liens, and the
record, which has swelled to a printed volume of six hundred
pages, shows the litigation to have been protracted and bitteThe bill was filed on the 9th day of December, 1859. A pa:
of the defendants answered, which answers were replied to, an'
a pro confesso decree was taken as to those who did not answei
and the cause came on for final hearing on the 13th day ('
January, 1862. The Court judicially ascertained that there wE
owing to the complainants, on the security of their mortgag
the sum of $500,000 for principal, and $65,260.05 for interest,
and decreed that the mortgaged premises should be sold at publ: u
auction by the marshal, unless the amount found due for arreai -s
of interest, with taxed costs, should be paid before the day cf
sale. The equity of redemption was foreclosed, and it was
ordered, if a sale should be made, that the purchaser should
have possession, and that those who had control of the road
should surrender the possession on production of the deed from
the marshal with a certified copy of the order confirming the
sale. It was also decreed, if the interest and costs were paid,
that further proceedings should be staid until some future default
should be made in the payment of interest, when, on petition, the
Court would found another order for a sale.
The litigation between Bronson & Soutter and the defendants,
on any maTzer in which there was a joint interest, is closed by
this decree. The object of the suit was to ascertain how much
money was due on the security of the mortgage and .to sell the
voL. ii.
34

SUPREME COURT.
Bronson vs. Railroad Company.
property unless the amount was paid. The Court did find what
was due, and ordered a sale. The very purpose of the litigation,
which was initiated by Bronson & Soutter, was accomplished
and nothing remained for them to do, if they felt aggrieved by
the finding of the Court, but to appeal. Their right of appeal
attached on the rendition of the decree, and the time limited in
which an appeal could be taken began to run from the (late of
the decree. It is said that some exceptions to the report of the
master were pending and undetermined when this decree was
made; but those exceptions (lid not relate to any claim of
Bronson & Soutter; they were collateral to the main purpose
of the suit, and concerned the defendants alone.
If Bronson & Soutter should have to sit quietly by until the
equities of the different lien creditors of the La Crosse & Milwaukie Railroad Company-with which they have no concernare determined, they might be ruined before they could avail
themselves of their right of appeal. Bronson & Soutter insist
that there is due them, as trustees, on this mortgage, $1,000,000.
with large arrears of interest, which claim was reduced one-half
by the Court below.
The La Crosse & Milwau'kie Railroad Company is evidently
greatly embarrassed, and tht. property mortgaged is doubtless
the only security relied on by the trustees for payment.
Now, if the Court had the right to make the decree and ordei
the sale-of which there can be no question-and the right of
appeal is in abeyance until the sale is perfected, and the different
collateral equities between the Railroad Company and other
parties are settled, great mischief might ensue.
If th-s Court should find that Bronson & Soutter are entitled
to their whole claim, and in the meantime the property is sold
and out of their control, how would their success benefit them?
It would be a victory barren of results. If the decree was
reversed there could be no restitution of the road, its property
and franchises; for purchasers at a judicial sale are protected.
A rule, from which consequences so injurious to the rights
of parties litigant would necessarily result, has never receivel
the sanction of this Court

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

581

Bronson vs. Railroad Company.
This decree is not final, in the strict, technical sense of the,
word, for something yet remains for the Court below to do.
But, as was said by Chief Justice Taney, in Forgay et -al.vs.
Conrad, (6 How., 203), "this Court has not therefore understood
the words 'final decrees,' in this strict and technical sense, but
has given to them a more liberal, and, as we think, a more
reasonable construction, and one more consonant to the intention
of the Legislature'
In the case of Ray vs. Law, (3 Cranch, 179), and Whiting vs.
The Bank of the United States, (13 Wheaton, 15), this Court has
decided that a decree for the sale of mortgaged premises is a
final decree from which an appeal lies. The Court rested their
decision on the- ground that when the mortgage was foreclosed
and a sale ordered, the merits of the controversy were finally
settled, and the subsequent proceedings were simply a means of
executing the decree.
But, in denial of the right of appeal, it is said that a cross
bill filed by leave of the Court is undetermined. This cause
was heard and determined on the pleadings then existing, and
no cross bill was pending, although the litigation had been protracted beyond two years. It is-true that the Court, on the 7th
day of January, 1862, and before the decree was passed, gave
leave to the "defendants, Sebre, Howard, Graham, and Scott, the
Milwaukie & Minnesota Railroad Company, and any other
defendants who have liens subsequent to those claimed by Selah
Chamberlain, to file a cross bill against said Chamberlain, contesting the liens under the lease or assignment, or judgment
claimed by him "inhis answer-provided said cross bill should
be filed by the 1st of February, 1862."
The bill was filed on the 1st of February, after the decree of
foreclosure was made and sale of the premises was ordered, and
Bronson & Soutter were made parties, although there was no
order of thd Court permitting it to be done, and process was
regularly issued and served on them.
It is an independent proceeding, instituted by certain lien
creditors of the road, who were defendants in the original suit,
seeking to invalidate a prior lien set up by Chamberlain, anotEer

'SUPREME

COURT.'

Sumner et als. vs. Hicks et als.
defendant, in his answer. It can affect in no wise the right of
Bronson & Soutter to foreclose their mortgage, and has no bearing on the legitimate questions presented for the consideration
of the Court in the bill filed by them for that purpose. Such
must have been the view entertained by the Judge of the District Court, for we cannot suppose that he intended to embarrass
the parties to the original suit, after it was ended, by allowing
the defendants to that suit to litigate their own claims to the
injury of the original complainants. It is proper to say, that we
do not approve of the practice of filing a cross bill after the
original suit has been heard and its merits passed on. If any
of the defendants in this suit wished to have the equities between
themselves settled without instituting an original suit for that
purpose, they should have applied to the Court at an earlier
stage of the litigation, and not waited until the pleadings weie
perfected, proofs taken, and the cause, after two years of delal
ready for hearing.
The motion is overruled.

SUMNER ET ALS. vs. HICKS ET ALS.

1. An assignment by an indebted party for the benefit of creditors
in trust that the assignee shall sell the property, "on such
terms and conditions, as in his judgment may appear best and
most for the interest of the parties concerned," has been held
by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin to be fraudulent and
void.
2. In cases involving the construction of a State statute, this Court
is bound to follow the judgment of the highest judicial authority of the State.
3. If a debtor makes an assignment, which is void, and afterwards
-but before any creditor has acquired a lien-makes another
which is free from objection, the latter aisignmcnt is valid.
Appeal from the District Court of the United States for the
District of Wisconsin..

