SUPREME COURT.
Bothwell vs. Dewees.
confirmation of his title, and there are others, his assignees who
have petitioned also, the Commissioners should have consolidated
all the cases. The law' does not require them to locate the
boundaries of the several grantees or settle any disputes between
them, or to give a thousand different patents to every several
elaimant of a town lot. It is their duty to establish the boundary
is well as validity of the Mexican grant as between him and the
Government, and not to arbitrate the disputes of the several
assignees.
The Court below confirmed the whole claim of the petitioner,
because it was within the thirty-three leagues which they had
already confirmed to Sutter. But, as that judgment was reversed
as to twenty-two leagues, the judgment in this case must hive
the same course. If any portion of his claim be found within
the eleven leagues, he needs no further title; if it does not, he
can have none.
The judgment and decree of the Court below is reversed.

ROTHWELL

vs.

DEWEES.

i. Where the surviving partner of an insolvent firm assigned certain lots of ground belonging to the firm for the benefit of its
creditors, the heirs of the deceased partner cannot be made
parties to a suit involving the title to the lots, on the ground
of any relation of trust or confidence subsisting between them
and the assignee.
2. Where a party purchases property under the direction of, or on
behalf of another, the purchase must be held to be in trust for
the benefit of the principal, on repayment of the money advanced by the agent.
.8 Where two devisees or tenants in common hold under an imperfect title, and one of them buys in the outstanding title, such
purchase will enure to their common benefit upon contribution
made to repay the purchase-money.
4 This rule is based upon a community of interest in a common
title, creating such a relation of trust and confidence betweeD

SUPREME COURT.
Rothwell vs. Dewees.
the parties, that it would be inequitable to permit one of them
to do any thing to the prejudice of the other, in reference to
the property so situated.
5 The reason of this rule applies as forcibly to -the husband of a
tenant in common as to one of the immediate co-partners.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
)istrict of Columbia.
Mr. Bradley, of Washington City, for Appellants.
Mr. Swan, of the District of Columbia, for Defendants.
Mr. Justice MILLER. The appellees in this case, who were
the defendants in the Circuit Court, hold the real estate, which
is the subject of this controversy, by inheritance from their
father, William Dewees. The title of Dewees was a deed from
the Corporation of Washington City; made August 29th, 1836,
on a sale for taxes. It seems to be admitted on all sides that
this deed vested the legal. title in Dewees, and that it is valid in
his-heirs, unless the plaintiffs shall be permitted to redeem from
said sale, and have the deed set aside for reasons set forth by
them in their bill.
The property in question was conveyed by Robert Morris, in
1796, to Joseph Ball and Standish Forde. Forde was then doing
business in Philadelphia as a merchant, in partnership with one
John Reed, and died about the year 1806 or 1807, leaving the
mercantile firm insolvent. Shortly after Forde's death, Reed,
the surviving partner, conveyed all the partnership property to
William Paige, of.Philadelphia, by deed of assignment for the
benefit of creditors; and in the schedule attached to the instrument of assignment is included the property thus conveyed by
Morris to Ball & Forde. This instrument is dated Decewber
12th, 1807.
On the 18th of September, 1833, William Paige, as assignee
of Reed, surviving partner of Reed & Forde, entered into a
written agreement with William Dewees, the defendants' ancestor,
4n reference to this property; the substance of which is briefly
thi6:

DECEMBER TERM, 1862;

615

Bothwell vs. Dewees.
Dewees was to take charge of the property, and redeem it
from any tax sales which had already been made, and for which
the time of redemption had not expired. He was to pay all
future taxes, and all the expenses incident to sales of lots to be
made by himself, for which he was furnished, with a power of
attorney by Paige. The money for all these taxes and expenses
he was to advance, except a sum of about two or three hundred
dollars, which was supposed to be in the hands of the Treasurer
of Washington City, belonging to Reed & Forde, arising in some
way out of sales for taxes already made. His compensation for
all this was, that, after deducting his advances and interest from
the proceeds of sales made by him, he was to have one-third of
the remainder of such proceeds.
It appears that Dewees acted fairly under this arrangement
for about three years; making advances to redeem the property
where it had been sold for taxes, and paying the accruing taxes,
until he had advanced about $900. He then not having sold
any of the property, nor realized anything from it in any other
way, permitted it to be sold for taxes and bought it in himself,
and took the corporation deed already mentioned of the 29th of
August, 1836. He died on the 3d of September following.
On the 10th of April, 1837, Paige, the assignee, by regular power
of attorney, appointed Andrew Rothwell, one of the complain.
ants, his agent, with authority to sell lots, to procure partition,
and to make settlement with the heirs and representatives of.
Dewees. In 1841, Robert Smith was, by a decree of Court,
appointed assignee in place of Paige, who had died; and in
1846 said Smith quit claimed, and released to Rothwell all the
right, title, and interest which he had as such assignee, in the
property now in dispute. The complainant, Rothwell, also pro.
cured deeds of conveyance to himself and his co-plaintiffs,
Naylor and Smith, from several persons describing themselves
as heirs of Standish Forde, of their interest in the same propelty.
Rothwell Smith, and Naylor then filed their bill in Chancery
against the defendants, one of whom is Rothwell's wife, praying
to be permitted to pay the sum with interest which William

SUPREME

COURT.

Bothwell vs. Dewees.
Dewees had paid for his tax deed, and to have said deed set
aside.
After the suit had progressed for some time, the other ap.
pellant, Robert S. Forde, filed a petition to be admitted as a
party plaintiff, on the ground that be was a grandson and an
heir-at-law of Standish Forde, and entitled to redeem for his
share.
The Court dismissed or overruled the petition of Robert S.
Forde to be made a party, and, on final hearing, it dismissed the
bill as to complainants, Naylor and Smith, and decreed that
Rothwell, in his purchase from Robert H. Smith, the assignee of
John Reed, should be held to be trustee for himself and %ife,
and the other defendants, heirs of Dewees; and that the defendants should make contribution to him, in payment of the sum so
paid by him to Smith, and for taxes afterward paid by him on
the property.
From this decree Robeit S. Forde and the original complainants appeal.
The first question to be considered arises from the action of
the Court in dismissing Forde's petition. It is clear that if
Forde had any title or interest in the property, it was a legal
title, and no obstruction is seen to the assertion of that legal
title against the defendants, in a Court of law.
That Court is the appropriate one to settle the conflict growing
out of the legal title derived by Robert S. Forde from his
ancestor, and the title claimed by defendants under the tax deed
from the City of Washington. If he has any right to redeem from
the sale for taxes it must be a legal right, which he can exercise
without the aid of a Court of Chancery. In his petition asking to
be made a party, he claims that Dewees must be considered as
the agent of Forde's heirs, as well as the agent of Reed's assignee,
under his agreement with Paige. This claim, however, cannot
be sustained. The partnership 6f Reed & Forde was insolvent.
The assignment was made for the benefit of creditors, and the
claim of the assignee to the lots in question was adverse to the
claim of Forde's heirs. The assignee had thus claimed them for
aearlv thirty years, when Dewees became the agent of Paigo.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

617

1?othwelZ vs. Dewees.
There can be no pretence then that Dewees was agent for
Fcrde's heirs, or occupied towards them any relation of trust or
confidence. No ground of equitable jurisdiction is perceived on
which Robert S. Forde could assert his title in a Court of
Chancery against the defendants, and his pettio, was' properly
overruled.
The next objection to the decree, namely, the dismissal of the
bill as to complainants, .Naylor and Smith, is based upon almost
the same ground' as that just considered. These parties have
conveyances from individuals, who describe themselves in the
deeds as heirs of Standish Forde, and in addition to this the bill
alleges that they were partners in the purchase made by Rothwell from the assignee of Reed. If it be admitted- that the
parties who made the conveyance to Naylor and Smith were the
heirs of Standish Forde, it would not place those complainants
in any other or better position than that of Robert S. Forde.
But Naylor and Smith being original plaintiffs, had an opportunity to prove their case at the final hearing, and failed to
produce any evidence that their grantors were the heirs of Forde.
It cannot be pretended that the recital of that fact in their deeds
cMin be evidence against parties not claiming under them, axi'd
we have failed to discover any other evidence of it in the
record.
Nbr is there any evidence that these parties were interested
in the purchase made by Rothwell from Smith, the assignee. If
tlat fact however, were established, we do not see that they
euuld claim to occupy any better position than Rothwell, since
they permitted him to take the conveyance to himself, without any mention of their rights in the purchase..
We come now to consider that portion of the decree which
concerns Rothwell and the defendants. This must be supported,
if at all, upon the two-fold operation of the principle that a purchase of an outstanding title or interest in property, by a person sustaining certain relations to others interested in the same property, should, at the option of the latter, enure to their benefit;
the application being in this case made, first, to the purchase of
the tax title by Dewees, agent for Paige, the assignee; and,

SUPREME

COURT.

Bothwell vs. "Dewees.
secondly, to the purchase made by Rothwell from the assignee,
he being the husband of one of the tenants in common who held
the property as heirs of Dewees.
So far as the tax title acquired by Dewees is conceined, there
can be no doubt that the principle is correctly applied. As the
agent of Paige, it was his duty to pay these taxes, and to pre
vent the sale of the lots. In violation of this duty he permitted
the lots to be sold, and himself became the purchaser. Besides
his general duty as agent, he had expressly covenanted; in writing, that he would, out of his own funds, advance the money
and pay these taxes. There is.nothing in law or morality plainer
than that his purchase must be held to be in trust for the benefit
of his principal, on repayment of the sum advanced by him. 1
Story Eq., sections 315, 1211, 1211a; Story on Agency, sections
210, 211; 8 Vesey R., 337. The defendants, who are his heirs,
can stand in no better condition than he would if he were
alive.

In regard to the application of the principle to the purchase
of Rothwell from Smith, the successor of Paige in the assignmeat, it is claimed by defendants, that Rothwell is to be treated
as having a common interest with them in the title derived from
Dewees, and that his' purchase of the outstanding equity of
Reed's assignee, must enure to the common benefit of the cotenants of that title.
In the case of 'Fan Horne vs. Fonda, (5 Johns. Chy. R., 407,
the rule is very fully laid down by Chancellor Kent, that where
two devisees or tenants in common hold under an imperfect title,
and one of them buys in the outstanding title, such purchase will
enure to their common benefit upon contribution made to repay
the.purchase-money. The same point is also decided in Farmer
and Arnold vs. Samuels, et al., (4 Littell R., 187.) The soundness of
the principle is not denied by counsel for plaintiff, as applicable
to persons strictly tenants in common, or joint tenants, or others
having an equality of interest or estate; but it is said that the
complainant in this case is not tenant in common, but that his
interest is at most only tenant by the courtesy of his wife's
interest, and that even that -is doubtful; and that there is no

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

.619

Bothwell vs. Dewees.
equality of interest as between him and the defendants. In this
connection much stress is laid by counsel upon the langaage of
the Court in Van Hornevs. Fonda,to the effect, that in that case
there was an equality of estate between the co.devisees. It
does not appear to us, however, that any particular force was
given to that fact by the learned judge, but rather that the
rule was based on a community of interest in a common title,
which created such a relation of trust and confidence between
the parties, that it would be inequitable to permit one of them
to do any thing to the prejudice of the other, in reference to the
property so situated. It seems to us that the true reason of the
rule applies as forcibly to the husband of a tenant in common,
as to one of the immediate co-tenants. This seems also to have
been the opinion of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in the
case of Lee and Grahamh vs. Fox, (6 Dana's R., 176.) It was
decided in that case that the husband of a co-heiress, who had
purchased an outstanding incumbrance on the lands of the heirs
should be held to have purchased for the benefit of all the
tenants, upon condition only that they should contribute their
respective proportion of the consideration actually paid for the
incumbrance.
We are quite satisfied with this as a rule of equity, sustained
as it is by authority and sound principles of morality, and as the
decree of the Circuit Court was in conformity to it, it must be
affirmed.

