DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

581

The Ship Poomac.
a part of the record of the case. It is only a useless encumbrance of the transcript, and an expense to the litigating parties.
Clerks who certify transcripts to this Court should know what
does properly constitute the record they are to send up, as it is
a matter which has been often decided, and which may be readily
learned with a little attention.
The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed.

THB SHIP PoTOMAC--S-impson, Claimant; Bacer, Libellant.
1 Case of The Steamer St.,Lawrence, (1 Black, 525,) reaffirmed"
2. The claimant of a vessel libelled for repairs, cannot be permitted
in this Court to contest the amount of libellant's claim, except
in so far as specific objections appear by the record to have
been taken to it in the Court below.
3. Where a master found the amount due, but stated no account,
and his report was excepted to as being excessive, not sufficiently proved, erroneous under the pleadings, and founded on
illegal evidence, such general objections may justly be treated
as frivolous, and if overruled and the case brought here on
appeal, this Court cannot say that particular .harges were
wrongly admitted, or particular credits wrongly thrown out.
4. Where the libellant proved his demand by shop books, the Circuit Court might well con sider the evidence in his favor
stronger than the contrary opinion of :experts taken exparte
after the work was done.
5. The decree of the Court below is presumed to-'be .right, and a
record showing that it may possibly be erroneoUs, or raising a
doubt upon conflicting evidence is .not enough to reverse it.
6 If the contract was made and the work done by the libellant,
his right to recover, in his own name, cannot be defeated by
showing that he had a partner interested in the contract.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.'
On the 23d of November, 1855, the libel in this cause was

SUPREME COURT.
The Ship Potowac.
filed in the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, by Baker, a ship-wright and carpenter
in rem. against he ship Potomac, to recover a bill of repairs
The Potomac ws a ship of more than five hundred tons, and
was engaged in the general freighting business. She had just
returned from a f-reign voyage and was about to sail for
-Australia. The libel !atated that the repairs were necessary and
that without them she could not proceed to sea and1 earn freight
and passage-money; that the- were furnisheA. un the credit of
the vessel, and master and owners (the master was an owner);
that the libellant had a lien upon her for them; and that the case
was within the jurisdiction of the Admiralty.
The answer admitted the repairing the vessel, but not to the
amount claimed, and did not deny the jurisdiction, the necessity
for the repairs or the lien.
The District Court made a decree that the libellant recover
the amount of his repairs, arid referred it to a Commissioner tG
acertain the amount. The Commissioner reported $3,996.18,
including the interest. The claimant excepted to the report.
The Court overruled the exceptions, and made a final decree
that the libellant recover the amount reported by the Commissioner.
The claimant appealed to the Circuit Court from the.whole of
the final decree.
The libellants moved the Circuit Court to dismiss the appeal
on the ground that it had not been perfected. The motion was
denied, on condition that the claimants deposit the amount of
the decree in Court, which was done, and by order of the Court
it was paid over to the libellants, on -their giving a bond to obey
the order of Court in the cause.
Much conflicting evidence was given upon the trial, 'he
libellant proving his demand for work and materials from -.he
books and accounts kept by his clerks in the ordinary course of
business, while the claimant brought persons, said to be skilled
in the business of building and repairing ships, to show that the
amount expended upon the vessel, fell far short of that claimed

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
The Ship Potomac.
by the libellant. The Circuit Court affirmed the decree of the
District Court and the claimant took this appeal.
Mr. -Gillt,of Washington City, for Appellant.
MAfr. Benedict, of New York, contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER. When the counsel prepared their briefs
of argument in this case, they could not have seen the report of
the case of "the Steamer St. Lawrence," (1 Black, 525), or they
would have considered it labor lost to argue the same question
of jurisdiction on the very same facts again at this term. The
opinion of the Court in that case was unanimous; the question
was fully discussed and the opinion delivered by the Chief Justice, and needs no further remark.
The appellant, in his answer, admits that the repairs were
made to his ship by the libellant, but takes issue on the .amount
and alleges an agreement that the repairs to be made should not
exceed a certain sum, less by one-half than the bill finally presented.
But it appeared clearly 'from the evidence, that although the
libellant made an estimate of what would be the probable cost
of the repairs, he did not contract to do the work for any given
sum. The contract was to supply the timber. and materials at
market prices, and to receive certain wages per diem for each
person employed. When the vessel was stripped, it was found
necessary to make repairs on a much larger scale than had been
at first estimated. The amount of libellant's bill of course far
exceeded his original estimate. The report of the Master found
the amount due, but stated no account. The exceptions to it
were-1st "That it was for an amount far exceeding any amount
of work performed." 2d. "That the libellant had not prove,1
an7 work performed for which he was entitled to a decree." 3d.
"That the libellant was not, under the pleadings, entitled to any
decree whatever in his favor." 4th. "That Commissioner erred in
admitting evidence," &c.

SUPREME COURT.
The Ship Potomac.
If the respondent wished to contest any of the specific charges
of the account, he should have had the report referred back to
the Master, with direction to state an account. The account
returned by the Master should report the items objected to and
whether they were allowed, and the testimony or reasons justifying his decision. To such a report the party could make
specific exceptions, and such general objections as those stated
might well be treated as frivolous.
As the record stands this Court cannot know what items of
the ]ibellant's account were allowed or disallowed, or excepted
to; we cannot say that other credits should have been allowed,
because we do not know whether they were allowed or not.
For anything that appears on the face of this record the
judgment of the District and Circuit Courts are correct. The
libellant proved his demand for work and materials furnished
by the books and accounts kept by his clerks; and the Court
may well have considered this better evidence than the~opinions
of experts, taken ex pare to undervalue the work and count the
trcenails, after the sheeting was replaced and the repairs covered
with paint. It is not enough for the appellant merely to raise
a doubt on conflicting testimony, that the judgment of the Court
below may possibly be erroneous. But in this case he has not
suceeded even in raising a doubt.
The judgment of the Court below is assumed to be correct till
the contrary is made to appear. It is not sufficient to produce
.t record from which it does not appear whether it is right or
wrong.
The objection that the libellant should have joined some
unknown partner as a party to this libel has no foundation
whatever.
The contract is proved to have been made and the' work
executed by the libellant. There is no evidence that he had a
partner in any way interested in the profits of the contrmat; and
if he had, it was not necessafy to make him a party, as appeared
by the case of Law vs. Cross, decided at last term. (See 1 Black,
5e33.)

Let the judgmentof the Circuit Cotnt be affirmed.

