DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

481

.Taylor vs. Morton.
Peser, (2 Cur., C. C.0, 235); Thomson vs. ffazwell, (2 Blatch.
C. 0., 391).
Persons importing merchandize are required to make their
protests distinct and specific, to apprise the collectors of the
customs of the nature of the objections made to the payment of
the duties before it is too late to remove them or to modify the
charge, and in order that the officers of the Government may
know what they have to meet in case they decide to exact the
duties, notwithstanding the objection, and expose the Government to the risk of litigation.. For these reasons we are of the
opinion that the second, question presented for the consideration
of the Court must also be answered in the negative, and consequently the .plaintiff cannot recover in this case. Having coine
to that conclusion it is unnecessary to consider the question
arising upon the merits The judgment of the Circuit Court
therefore is reversed with costs, and the cause remanded, with
instructions to issue a new venire.

TAYLOR vs. MORTON.

I A case coming into this Court from the Circuit Court on a writ
of error, issued under the 22d section of the Judiciary Act, when
the record shows.that no exception was taken below, is not to
be treated like a case with a similar record which comes up
from a State Court under the 25th section.
9. In a ease whichcomes from a State Court, under the 25th section,
it must appear by the record that some one of the questions
stated in that section arose and was determined, otherwise this
Court is wholly without jurisdiction and can only dismiss the
writ
3. If the cause is brought up from a Circuit Court it is to be either
affirmed or reversed, and it will of course be affirmed if the
record, does not present some ground of reversal.
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts. It was like the case Qf
voL. ..

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor vs. Morton.
Curtis vs. Fiedler,(supra), an action of assumpsit against a co!
lector of customs for exacting excessive duties on an importation
of hemp from Russia. The questions raised and argued in the
Court below were the same as those presented to the Circuit
Court of New York, in Curtis vs. Fiedler; but they were decided
differently, the verdict and judgment in this case being in favor
of the defendant, and it was the plaintiff who took this writ of
error. It did not, however, appear from the record that the
ruling of the Court, on any question of law, was objected to on
the trial, and there was no bill of exceptions which made either
the evidence or the instructions of the Court a part of the
record.

The same counsel appeared in this cause and in the other,
namely:
Afr. Cushing and Mr.Gillet, for the Plaintiff below; and
A1r. Coffey and 21r. Butler, for the Defendant below.
Both cases were argued together. But on the part of this
defendant in error the counsel suggested that the writ of error
ought to be dismissed, without considering the questions
attempted to be raised by the other side.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This was an action of assumpsit,
and the case comes before the Court upon a writ of error to
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
Suit was brought by the present plaintiffs against the defendant as the Collector of the Customs for the the Port of Boston
and Charlestown, to recover back an alleged excess of duties
exacted of the plaintiffs by the defendant on certain unmanufactured hemp imported by them from Russia in '1846. According to the transcript, the action was entered at the May Term,
.1847, and was thence continued from term to term to the May
Term,-1854, when the parties went to trial upon the general
issue. Duties charged on the hemp were $40 per ton, whereas

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

485

Taylor vs. Horton.
it was insisted by the plaintiffs that the charge should have been
but $25 per ton, because by the 6th and 7th articles of the
Treaty between the United States and Russia, it is stipulated to
the effect that no higher rate of duty shall be imposed on importations from Russia than on like articles from the most favored
nations, and by the Tariff Act of the 30th of August, 1842, tne
duty imposed on manilla, sunn, and other hemps of India, was
but $25 per ton. Evidence was introduced on both sides, but
the record states that when the evidence was all in, it was agreed
that the case should be taken from the jury and submitted to the
Court, with authority to draw all such inferences of fact as a
jury.would be authorized to draw from the evidence, and that
a verdict should be entered and judgment should be rendered
for the plaintiffs or defendant, as the Court should think proper
upon the law and the evidence.
Accordingly a report of the case was made and signed by the
counsel of the respective parties. Whether the parties were
ever heard upon this report does not very satisfactorily appear,
nor does it appear that any decision was ever made by the Court.
On the contrary, the record subsequently states that the ad
dcmnum of the writ, on motion of the plaintif was increased,
by leave of Court, from $2,000 to, $2,500; and it also states,
among other things, that the case was submitted under instruc
tions from the Court to a jury duly sworn to try the same, who
thereupon returned their verdict that the defendant did not
promise in manner and form as the plaintiffs have declared
against him. Judgment was accordingly entered for the defend
ant, and the plaintiffs sued out this writ of error and removed
the cause into this Court. They did not, however, except to the
instructions of the Court, and there is no bill of exceptions in
the record, nor is there any assignment of errors of any kind.
Al that appears is the before-mentioned statement that the case
was submitted to the jury under instructions from the Court, but
the instructions are not given, and there is no error apparent on
the face of the record.
1. When a suit is brought into this Court by a writ of error
from a State Court under the 25th section of the judiciary act i

SUPREME COURT.
Taylor vs. Morton.
must appear on the face of the record in order to maintain the
jurisdiction, that some one of the questions stated in that section
did arise in the State Court, and that the question so appearing
was decided in the State Court, as required in the same section;
and if it does not so appear on the record then this Court has
li jurisdiction to affirm or reverse, and the writ of error must
be dismissed.
2. But the writ of error in this case was sued out under the
22d section of the judiciary act, which provides in effect that
final judgments in a Circuit Court, brought there by original
process, may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in this
Court upon a writ of error. Consequently, when a cause is
brought into this Court upon a writ of error, sued out under
that section, and all the proceedings are regular and correct, it
follows from the express words of the section that the judgment
of the Court below must be affirmed, although there is no question presented in the record for revision. Minor et al. vs.
Tellotson, (1 Howard, 287); ,tevecm vs. Gla&ling, (19 Howard
64); Suydam vs. Williamson et aL, (20 Howard, p. 440).
The judgment of the Circuit Court, therefore, is affirmed with

