DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

519

Griffing vs. Gibb.

GRIFFING vs. GIBB.

I If a bill in equity, brought by the proprietor of a City lot, avers

that the rights of the plaintiff are illegally, wrongfully and injuriously affected by the acts of the defendants, the bill on its
face entitles the plaintiff to relief.
2 The defendant cannot sustain a demurrer to such a 13ill on the
ground that he was justified by an act of State Legislature.
3. The Court is bound to notice judicially the laws of the State
defining the limits of a City, in cases where the pleadings make
it proper to do so; but not on a demurrer, where the facts, as
stated in the bill, make it the duty of the Court to rule in
favor of the plaintiffi
4. A demurrer is a denial in form and substance of the plaintiff's
right to have his case considered in a Court of equity, and an
admission of all its allegations that are properly pleaded.
Appeal from the decree of the District Court of the United
States for the Northern District of California.
Frederick Griffing filed his bill in the District Court against
Daniel Gibb and Donald Fraser, averring that he was the owner
of two lots in San Francisco which originally fronted on the
natural shore of the bay with bold deep water in front; that he
bought this property with a view to its water front; that he
built ware houses and a wharf on it to which ships of the largest
size could come; that when he commenced his improvements
there was no sign of any streets near him which interfered with
his access to the water, the lines of Filbert and Battery streets
being defined only on the City maps; that the defendants are
engaged in filling up a certain part of the bay in a way which
will prevent ships from coming to his ware-house* "the part to
be thus filled up being a lot of one hundred varas square,
covered by navigable tide-water, and situate between, and forming, the northeast corner of Filbert and Battery streets as defined
on the City map. The plaintiff asserts that these acts of the
defendants are in violation of his rights, injurious to the public,
and contrary to the Constitution and Laws of the United States

SUPREME

COURT.

Griffing vs. Gibb.
and of the State of California, and therefore prays for a per.
petual injunction.
To.4his bill the defendants demur; the Court sustained the
definurrer, and the plaintiff having failed to amend the bill
within the time limited by the rule of -Court, a final decree was
passed, dismissing the bill. Thereupon the plaintiff took an
appeal to this Court.
Mfr. Hepburn and .Hr. Wilkins, of California, for the appellant,
insisted that the bill was erroneously dismissed. The plaintiff,
on the facts averred in the bill and admitted in the demurrer,
was entitled to relief. He could only be defeated by proof, that
Battery and Filbert streets were legally extended by the proper
authorities. The bill avers that they were not legally or officially laid out. The right of the defendants to do the thing
complained of, so far from being admitted in the bill, is expressly
averred to be wrongful.
4fr. Latham, of California, and Hr. Black, of Pennsylvania,
for the appellee, maintained the correctness of the decree on the
grounds: that,
1. The bill indicates distinctly the locus in quo of the acts
complained of as being on a lot between certain streets defined
on the City map.
2. This Court, as well as the District Court, is bound to
notice, judicially, the public laws of a State and the acts of
public corporations done in pursuance of them.
.3. The laws of California and the acts of the City Govern.
ment are here produced, and show that the place, which the
defendants are filling up, is a part/of the City covered by lots
and streets, and not public waters lof the bay.
4. The laws of California Which relate to this subject are not
unconstitutir)nal.
5. The a*'erment that the act of the defendants was wrongful
is not to be taken as admitted by the'demurrer. The demurrer
admits the facts set forth in the bill. but not the legal conc]usois

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

521

Griffing vs. Gibb.

Mr. Justice WAYNE. This is an appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
California.
The complainant seeks to obtain a perpetual injunction to
restrain the defendants from piling and improving a lot -of land
claimed by them, which is said in the bill to be within the inside
of the water front line of the city 6f San Francisco, and always
covered by the tidewaters of the bay. He states that he is the
owner in fee simple, and is in p~ssession of two parcels of land ;
the first beginning at a point where the east line of Sanson street
intersects the south line of Filbert street, running thence south.
wardly along the east line of Sanson.street 137 feet; thence ast,,
it right angles to Sanson street, 275 feet; thence north, parallel
with Sanson street, 1371 feet, to a point in range with the guth
line of Filbert street; thence west 275 feet to the point of-begin
ning. The second, "A lot beginning at a point where the east line
of Sanson street intersects the northern line of Filbert street;
thence north along the east line of Sanson street 1371 feet;
thence at right angles to Sanson street 275 feet; thence south,
parallel with Sanson street, 1371 feet, to a point in range with
the north line of Filbert street; thence 275 feet to the place of
beginning."
The complainant asserts that he is in the exclusive occupation
and possession of both lots of land under a title in fee; that he
has buildings and improvements upon them of the value of
$200,000. He further avers that his lots originally fronted on
and were a part of the natural shore of the bay of San Francisco;
that they had a deep and high bank in the rear, with a bold and
deep water in front, where the tide ebbed and flowed, where
ships of the largest class navigated in safety to receive and discharge cargo. Passing over other allegations in the bill not
necessary to be mentioned in this connection, the complainant
asserts that he commenced to make his improvements in the
year 1851, and that he had used and enjoyed them for the
purposes for which they had been constructed, until interfered
with by the defendants, having piles driven in front of his
premises, under the navigable waters of the bay, extending over

SUPREME COURT.
G

ng vs. Gibb.

a space of 27.5 feet square. That the defendants assert, notwithstanding his remonstrances against sduch piling, that they have a
right to drive them, and declare it to be their intention t build
a wharf upon a lot which they claim, situate as follows: Beginning at the northeast corner formed by the extended lines of
Filbert and Battery streets, being a lot of land covered by the
navigable tide of the bay of San Francisco, &c., &c., where ships
of the largest class habitually pass and repass in their approaches
to the complainant's warehouses. It is then averred that if the
piling shall be done at that point that it will interfere with the
public use of the harbor and the bay, obstruct the navigation,
divert the tide from its usual flow and ebb, change its current;
and shallow the water by deposits of sediment, as it has already
done, there being shallower water at the point designated than
there had been before the defendants wrongfully began to pile
there, and particularly so in front of the complainant's premises,
than there had been when he began to improve his premises in
the year 1851; that the depth of the water there is being constantly lessened by said piling, greatly to the complainant's
pecuniary loss, and will be to his irreparable injury unless the
defendants shall be restrained from continuing their unlawful acts
by an injunction, and by a decree of the Court for the abatement
of the defendants' piling as a nuisance. That the piling which
has been done by the defendants is contiguous to his premises;
that it is on a lot covered by the ebb and flow of the tide of the
bay of San Francisco, and that the defendants claim the lot to
be within the City of San Francisco.
The defendants filed a general demurrer to the bill. We
think that the Court erred in sustaining it, and in dismissing the
bill of the complainant for want of an amendment, which the
Court directed to be made by the next rule day. On the
demurrer the ruling of the Court should have been for the
complainant, instead of which the Court dismissed his bill. The
only point, in our view of the case, when it was on its hearing
in the Court below, was, whether the complainant had not
shown, by the facts stated on the face of his bill, artificial as it
may be in point of form, a case for relief within the jurisdiction

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Girliong vs. Gibb.
of a Court of Equity. We think it to be so, and shall remand
it to the Court below for amendment and further procedure, as
in the judgment of that Court, the case may require.
We further observe that the filing of a general demurrer was
not in the pleadings, and facts of the case a proper defence. The
lefendants might have resorted to a plea alleging matter, which,
if appearing on the face of the bill, would have been a good
cause of demurrer, or the bill should have been answered.
The demurrer filed was a denial in form and substance of the
right of complainant to have his case considered in a Court of
Equity, but an admission that all the allegations of it which
were properly pleaded were true. In respect to what was said
in the argumet that this Court would, on the general demurrer
of the defendants, judicially notice the Acts of California relating
to the harbor of San Francisco, and particularly of the Water
Lot Act of' the 26th March, 1851, we will only remark that we
should do so if the pleading in the case was such as permitted it
to be done, and if we did not think, as we have already said,
that upon that plea that the cause should not have been dismissed, and that the Courts should have ruled in favor of the
complainant; and it is now here ordered, adjudged and decreed
by this Court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, each party paying
his own costs on this appeal in this Court, and that this caust.
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court
for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the
opinion of this Court.

