SUPREME

COURT

Lindsey et al. vs. Hawes et al.

LINDSEY

ET AL. vs. HAWES ET AL.

I This Court will enquire into the facts of a disputed entry of public land, and set aside or correct the decision of a Register or
Receiver, or of the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
as equity may require.
2. Where a party takes up and resides upon a tract of land within
a quarter section, whose limits have been fixed by an authorized
Government Survey/pays for it and receives his patent certificate from the proper officers, and by a subsequent survey it
is found that the house of the pre-emptor is not within the
tract for which he has paid, the Commissioner of the Land
Office cannot, for this reason, set aside the sale.
3. In such a case the Government is bound by the original survey.
4. Where the house of a pre-empto'r is built on the line dividing
two quarter sections, his residence in it avails as the foundation of a pre-emption right in either.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Hr. Grant, of Iowa, for Appellants.
21r. Scates, of Illinois, for Appellees.
Mr. Justice MILLER. This is an appeal from a decree of the
Circuit Court for the Northern District of Illinois, in which the
appellants here were complainants there.
The subject of the litigation is the legal title to the southwest
part of the northeast fractional quarter c'" section No. 36, in
township No. 18, of range No. 2, west, of zhe fourth principal
meridian, in the county of Rock Island, Illinois. The course of
the Mississippi river at this point is almost due west, and that
portion of its waters which flows south of the island of Rock
Island, divides the northeast quarter of section 36 into two
parts, one of which, the smaller, is south of the stream, and the
other constitutes a portion of the Island.
The section was surveyed in the year 1833 by Bennett, the

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Lincdey et al. vs. Hawes el aL

Government Surveyor, and the survey duly filed in the proper
office. The meanders of the Mississippi river, the quarter seg.
ttion posts, and the area of the fractional quarters, were all given,
by the survey. It appeared by it, that the south line of the
quarter section impinged upon the river at a point near the
centre of the line, and thus divided that part of the quarter
which was south of the river into two separate fractions. The
computation of this survey gave the contents of the east fraction
at 1 8 7 acres, and of the west fraction at 5 1o acres. It is this
latter parcel which is in contest. In April, 1839, Thomas Lindsey made application to the Receiver and Register of-the land
office at Galena to purchase the land, claiming a right of preemption under the Act of 1838 by reason of cultivation and
actual residence thereon, and having established his claim to the
satisfaction of those officers, he received from them on the 3d
day of June, 1839, the proper certificate, stating the receipt of
the purchase-money, and that, on its presentation to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, he would be entitled to a
patent. Shortly after receiving this certificate, Thomas Lindsey
removed with his family, across the river into Iowa, and died on
the 14th September of the same year, a little more than. three
months after its date. The present plaintiffs are his heirs, and
were all, at the time of his death, either minors or femes covert.
except James A. Lindsey. io patent ever issued to Thomas
Lindsey or his heirs on this entry.
In 1845 David iawes claimed a pre-emption right under the
Act of 1841 for the same fractional southwest part of the northeast quarter of section 36, and in December received the certifi..
cate of the Register and Receiver that he had -purchased and
entered it, and on March 1st, 1848, received from the Government a patent.
The object of the present suit is to compel from said David
RIawes and the other defendants, who are his grantees, a convey
ance to plaintiffs of the legal title thus obtained by Hawes fromthe Government.
As Hawes took his patent from the - United States with full
knowledgd of the certificate previously issued to Lindsey, it is

SUPREME COURT.
Lindsey et al. vs. Hawes el al.
quite clear that upon the facts above stated, without more, the
bmplainartts would be entitled to the relief prayed for in their
bill. But the defendant Hawes, who alone has answered, sets
up other facts upon which he relies as a full defence to the
claim of the plaintiffs. There are in the record the depositions
of some forty witnesses, besides letters and other documentary
evidence, all of which have received the careful attention of the
Court; although it will be found that the case must be decided
upon a few facts about the truth of which there is but little
conflict. These will be considered as we progress.
On the 9th August, 1845, James Shields, Commissioner of the
Laud Office, set aside the entry of Lindsey, ordered his certificate to be cancelled, and directed the Register and Receiver to
hear proof of the right of David Hawes, and to adjudicate his
claim.
They accordingly heard his proof, and gave him the certificate,
on which he afterwards obtained his patent as before recited. It
is claimed by the counsel of Hawes that this action of the land
)fficers, including that of the Commissioner, was a conclusive
ind final adjudication of the matters now set up in plaintiffs'
bill, and that the Courts of Law cannot go behind these proceedings to correct any injustice "which may have been done to
plaintiffs.
. The proposition as thus broadly stated, and as necessarily so
stated by defendant's counsel to avail him in this case, cannot be
conceded. It appears from the evidence before us, that the
ground on which the Commissioner set aside the entry of Lindsey, was, that there had been a mistake in the survey made by
Bennett in 1833, and that by another survey made by order of
the Commissioner in 1844, it was ascertained that the house in
which Lindsey resided when he made his claim in 1839, was not
on the land for which he received his certificate of entry from
the Receiver and Register.
The order for this new survey emanated from the Commissioner of the Land Office June 1st, 1844, and the survey was
actually made in the autumn of that year, five years after Lir.sey's entry, and five years also after his death, and there is no

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

557

• Lindsey et al. vs. Hawes et al.
proof whatever that any of his heirs had notice of this survey,
or of any intention on the part of the Commissioner to set aside
Lindsey's entry; but the whole proceeding was ex Tarte, It is
true that subsequently, when the claim of David Rawes-to a
right to enter this land came before the Register and Receiver,.
James A. Lindsey seems to have had some kind of notice; but
this was given him in regard to an attempt on his part to enter
this land for himself, on a claim of improvement made by himself, having, as is clearly shown, no relation whatever to the right
established by his father, Thomas Lindsey. Nor did the other.
heirs of Thomas Lindsey have any notice of the proceedings by
which David Hawes established his claim before the Register.
and Receiver. These heirs were not in any sense parties, to any'
of the proceedings, by which the title to the land which theirancestor had 'bought of the Government, was vested in David.
Hawes, and their claim annulled.
Under these circumstances we have no hesitation in holding
that the action of the officers of 'the land office was not conclusive upon their rights, and that a Court of Equity, may inquire
into the proceedings -by which the title was vested in Hawes,
and afford relief if a proper cause for it is shown to exist. That
this is the settled doctrine of this Court, a reference to a few ol
its decisions will show.
In the case of Cunninghamvs. Ashley et al., (14 Howard, 377).
Cunningham appeared before the Receiver and Register, and
claimed the right iinder the pre-emption laws, to enter the land
vhich was the subject of controversy. These officers decided
that he had no right to do so, and rejected his claim. He again
and repeatedly presented his claim, and tendered the price of the
land. His claim received the consideration of the Commissionei
of the Land Office, of the Attorney-General, and of the Secre.
tary of the Treasury, and was finally rejected. J'he defendants
were permitted to enter the land, and receive from the Govern-.
ment patents for it. Justice McLean, in delivering the opinion
of the Court, says, that this final decision of the Officers of the
Department was the result of twenty years of controversy; and
-peaking in reference to the plaintiff's rights, he says: ."They

SUPREME COURT.
Lindsey et al. vs. Iawes et al.
were paramount to those acquired under the new location.
Those rights were founded on the settlement and improvement
in 1821, and on the acts done subsequently in the prosecution
of his claim. Having done everything which was in his power
to do, the law requires nothing more." Again: "So far as the
new entries interfered with the right of complainants, they were
void." "The officers of the Government are the agents of the
law. They cannot act beyond its provisions, nor make compromises not sanctioned by it. The Court decreed that the defendants should convey to Cunningham who had the paramount
equity. In this case, which had been long contested, and had
received the consideration of the Receiver, Register, Commis:
sioner, Attorney-General, and Secretary of the Treasury, all of
whom had concurred in rejecting plaintiff's claim, he had never
received any certificate nor actually paid any money, yet the
Court held that it would look into the equities of the case and
set aside the acts of all these officers, because they had erred, to
use the language of the Court, both as to the law and the facts
to the prejudice of complainant. In Barnard'sHeirs vs. Ashley's
Heirs, (18 How., 43), this Court again decided that it would
inquire into the facts of a disputed entry, notwithstanding the
decision of the Register and Receiver.
But the clearest statement of the rule established by this Court
on this subject, is to be found in the case of Garland vs. Wynn,
(20 How., 8). Wynn's entry, which was the elder, had been set
aside, and the money refunded and a .patent certificate awarded
to Hemphill, who assigned to Garland, to whom the patent
issued. Wynn brought his suit in equity to compel from Garland the conveyance-of the legal title, on the ground that these
proceedings were illegal, and that he had the equitable right.
Garland insisted that the Circuit Court had no authority or juris.
diction to set aside or correct the decision of the Register and
Receiver, and that their adjudication was conclusive. Mr. Justice
Catron, in delivering the opinion of the Court, says: "The general rule is that where several parties set up conflicting claims
to property, with which a special tribunal may deal, as between
one party and Government, regardless of the rights of others,

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
--Lindsey et al. vs. Hawes et al.
the latter may come into the ordinary Courts of Justice and
litigate the conflicting claims. Such was the case of Comegyi
vs. Vasse, (1 Peters, 212), and the case before us belongs to the
same class of ex parte proceedings. Nor do the regulations of
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, whereby a party
may be heard to prove his better claim to enter, oust the jurisdiction of the Courts of Justice. IVe announce this to be the settlea
doctrine of this Court." In Lyttle et al. vs. State of Arkansas et al,
(22 How., 192), the same member of the Court, delivering its
opinion, says: "Another preliminary question is presented 'on
this record, namely, whether the adjudicationof the Register and
Receiver which authorized Cloy's heirs to enter the land is subject to revision in Courts of Justice, on proof showing that the
entry was obtained by fraud, and the imposition of false testimony on those officers as to settlement and cultivation. We
deem this question too well settled in the affirmative for discussion."

We are not now disposed to question the soundness of these
decisions, and they clearly dispose of the objection raised by
defendants on this branch of the case.
We now proceed to inquire into the grounds upon which the
entry of Thomas Lindsey was set aside, and the application of
David iHawes to enter the same land was allowed. It appears
that some five years after Lindsey's entry was made, upon the
suggestion of Silas Reed, that there was an error in Bennett's
survey of this quarter, the Commissioner ordered a new survey
to be made of that section. This survey was made for the
Government by George B. Sargent in the fall of 1844. it
differed from the original survey in two particulars, namely,
that the southwest fractional quarter was found to contain
13 2 acres, instead of 5 17, and the south line of the quarter
section was located so far north, as to leave the house in which
Lindsey resided, when he made his entry, entirely south of the
quarter.
The Act of June 22, 1838, under which Lindsey claimed his
right of preemption and made his entry, provides, "That every
actual settler of the public lands, l-ing the head of a family,

SUPREME COURT.
Lindsey et al., vs. Hawes et al.
over twenty-one years of age, who was in possession, and a
houseke -per, by personal residence thereon at the time of the
passage of this act, and for four months next preceding, shall
be entitled to all the benefits and privileges of an act entitlet
an act to grant pre-emption rights to settlers on public lands."
It is shown by ihe letter of James Shields, Commissioner of the
General Land Office, dated August 9th, 1845, to the Register
and Receiver at Dixon, that Lindsey's entry was set aside by
him because, by the re-survey, Lindsey's house was not on the
fractional quarter in controversy. We are not prepared to
admit, that if the second survey be the correct and proper subdivision of that section into quarters and fractions of quarterg,
and that by this survey, (though otherwise by the former) the
house of Lindsey was found not to be in the fraction pre-empted
by him, the Commissioner could, for this reason alone, set aside,
in this summary manner, the sale of the land made by the Cov
eminent to Lindsay. It is to be remembered that the original
survey of Bennett, was the survey of the Government; that it
was made in 1833; that the maps, plats, certificates, and field
notes were all filed in the proper office; the survey approved, and
that for eleven years, the Government had acted upon and recog.
nized it as valid and correct, and above all had sold the land to
Lindsey by this its own survey, received the purchase money
and given him a patent certificate, five years before any sugges
tion was made of this error. The money thus received by the
Government has never been returned, nor do we think it would
vary the rights of the parties if it had been actually tendered
to him or his heirs. We are of opinion, under these circumstances, that so far as the location of the lines of that qlarter
section, affect the question of the precise locality of Lindsey's
residence, as bearing on his right to enter that fraction as a preemption, the Government was bound by the original survey of
Bennett.
We do not here deny the right of the Government which has
sold land by the acre at a fixed price, to make a new survey
oefore it parts with the title, and if there is more land than

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Lindsey e al. vs. Hawes el aL.
was paid for, to require the deficiency to be paid before it issues
a patent.
On that subject we decide nothing, because it is not necessary
in this case. Lindsey's heirs were never notified of the additional
number of acres found to be in the fraction, nor were they
required, or permitted to pay for this increase.
The language of the Act of 1838, already quoted, certainly
required of Lindsey that he should have possession, by personal
residence thereon, of the land which he entered, and if he had
not such residence, or rather such possession, the Commissioner
was justified in vacating the entry. But this fact must be deter
mined on the basis of Bennett's survey.
On this point a few facts found amohg the mass of testimony
in the record, about which there is scarcely a dispute, will enable
us to form a just conclusion.
The east and west lines which divide a section into north and
south quarter sections, are not usually run out and marked by
the Government surveyors; but instead of this, as they run the
north and south lines, they'set up on these lines, what they call
the quarter section post's-that is, they mark the points where
this line should begin and end. When Lindsey was about to
make his pre-emption claim, in order to ascertain whether he
resided on this fraction, he procured the County Surveyor of
Rock Island County to come and run this quarter section line.
Several of the witnesses who were present when this survey was
made have testified in the case, and 0. H. Stoddard, a practical
surveyor of intelligence and candor, as shown by his testimony,
also made a survey from' Bennett's field notes since this suit
was instituted. Some of the persons present when the survey
was made by Baxter, the Surveyor of Rock Island County,
looked through the compass and observed where the line struck
Lindsey's house, and a notch was made on his stone chimney
where the line was seen to! touch it, which was there when the'
depositions were taken in this suit, and was identified by wit.
nesses who saw it made. The fair result of all the testimony on
this point is, that the house in which Lindsey resided was
3irectly on this line, which would intersect the house so as to
36
VOL. 11.

SUPREME COURT.
Lindsey et al. vs. Hawes et al.
throw perhaps the larger part on the other quarter, and a part
something less than half, into this quarter.
It is proved that he had another building on this fraction
wholly, which is sometimes spoken of as his stable, and sometimes as a blacksmith shop, in which he worked at that trade.
It is also shown that the ground cultivated by him was exclusively on this fraction, and the proof of its cultivation and
enclosure is quite clear. On these facts, was he within the
meaning of the statute, in possession of this fraction by personal
residence thereon ?
The counsel for appellees has made a vigorous argument in
support of the negative of this question. Assuming that Lindsey
could not have a residence on both the northeast and southeast
quarter sections at one time, and claiming that the case is to be
governed by the analogies of a question of domicil in a case of
conflicting jurisdictions, he has made an apparently strong case
out of the fact, that the larger portion of the house is on the
south side of the line.
This, however, is not a case of domicil under different Governments or conflicting jurisdictions. It is a question arising under
the Government of the Unit,-J States, and concerns a construction of one of its most benevolent statutes, made for the benefit
of its own citizens, inviting and encouraging them to settle upon
its public lands. The Government which made the law, owned
both quarter sections, and was indifferent as to which should be
sold to Lindsey, provided it was legally done. Lindsey's house
was on both quarter sections. lIe lived or resided in all that
house. So far as mere personal residence is concerned, we think
he may be correctly said to have resided on both quarter nections. The law only required that he should personally reside
on the quarter which he claimed to enter, and if he resided on
both, then clearly he resided on this one.
But the language of the act makes possession the prinipal
matter, and personal residence the qualifying matter. Leaving
out the word housekeeper, which is not in question, the quali.
fication of a person who can pre-empt under the act, is one
' who was in possession by personal residence thereon." Nop

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
that Linsey was in possession, is shown by his stable or blacksmith shop, by his enclosure and cultivation of the ground, or a
part of it. When in addition to these facts, a considerable part
of the house in which he and his family lived, was also on this
little flve-acre piece of ground, may it not be said that he had
possession of it by personal residence thereon?
We are of opinion that on the true construction of the statute
he had. It follows, from what we have said, that the patent
certificate issued to Thomas Lindsey was rightfully issued by
the Receiver and Register, that the act of the Commissioner in
setting it aside was illegal, and did not destroy the right thus
vested, that the land was not subject to entry by David Hawes,
and that the patent obtained by him, was wrongfully and
illegally issued to him, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to a
conveyance of the legal title from him and his co-defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to that Court, with instructions to enter a decree
in conformity with this opinion.

DREDGE ET AL. vs. FORSYTH.

1. Am exception taken to the ruling of a Court, before the retirement of the Jury from the bar, may be drawn out in form and
sealed by ttie Judge afterwards.
2 The time within which it may be so drawn out and presented to
the Court, must depend upon the rules and practice of the
Court, and the judicial discretion of the presiding Justice.
3. A patent for land adjoining Peoria, subject to the rights of all
persons (French Villagers) claiming under the Act of 1823,
confers, notwithstanding that reservation, a title in fee simple
upon the patentee.
4. The title under such patent may be superseded and annulled by"
a survey under the Act of 1823, but it is in the meantime
good on its face, and will afford protection to the patentee in
possession under it.
5. The clause making the patent subject to claims under the Ac4

