DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

535

Wright vs. Bales.
assented to it. In the others, creditors had interposed and intervening rights had attached to the property.
"It is a settled' principle that a deed voluntary or even fraudulent in its creation, and voidable by a purchaser, may become
good by matter ex post facto." 4 Kent's Com., 559; 1 John. C.
R., 136; 15 John. R., 571; 2 Edwards C. R., 289; 1 Sid., 133;
Amer. L. C., 82.
The Court below dismissed the bill. We think there i no
error in the decree, and it is affirmed with costs.

WRIGHT vs. BALES.
The statutory enactments of the States of the Union, in respect
to evidence in cases at common law, are obligatory upon Judges
of the Courts of the United States, who are ')ound to apply them
as rules of decision.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Ohio.
On the 31st of May, 1859, Matthias B. Wright and John Conner brought trespass on the case in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of Ohio, against Moses
Bales, alleging in their declaration an infringement by defendant
of a certain patent right to make and vend a draining plow of
their invention. The defendant pleaded not guilty. Verdict
for defendant, with costs. Plaintiff, in his exceptions, assigned,
among other grounds of error, the refusal of the Court to allow
Wright, one of the plaintiffs, to testify in the cause. Writ of
error issued April 2d, 1860.
.&r. Lee and Mr. Fisher,of Ohio, for Plaintiff in Error.

By the law of Ohio, the parties to a cause are competent wit.
nesses in it. State laws of evidence are rules of decision in civil
tri~ls at the common law before Courts of the United States.
Civil Code of Ohio, ยง 31C; Act of April 12, 1858, amending

SUPREME

COURT.

Wright vs. Bales.
code; McNiel vs. Hobrook, (12 Peters, 84:); Sims vs. Hundley, (6
How., 1); U. S. vs. Dunham,. (Monthly Law Reporter, July,
1859); Smith vs. Carrington,(4 Cranch, 62).
No counsel appeared for Defendant in Error.
Mr. Justioa WAYNE. The plaintiff in error seeks for a reversal of the judgment in this case, for errors alleged to have
occurred upon the trial of it in the Court below, but our attention having been called to the rejection of a witness, we shall
confine ourselves to that assignment of error, without considering such of them as relate to the merits of the litigation or to the
admission of the deposition of A. B. Dickerson, taken de bene
esse, as evidence in the case.
The error complained of is, that the Court erred in refusing to
allow one of the plaintiffs, Matthias B. Wright, to testify as a
witness in the cause.
The cause was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting at Cincinnati, Ohio. In the year 1853, the Legislature of
tlat State passed a statute entitled "An Act to establish a Code
of Civil Procedure," in which it is declared 'that "no person
shall be disqualified as a witness in any civil action or proceeding by reason of his intei est in the event of the same, as a party
or otherwise, or by reason of his conviction of a crime, but such
entries or conviction may be shown for the purpose of affecting
his credibility." This statute was in force at the time of this
trial. Wright, one of the plaintiffs, was offered as a witness
under it, but was rejected by the Court as incompetent to testify,
by reason of his interest in the event of the suit, and because of
a rule of Court, which it was said excluded such a witness from
exa--ination' unless previous notice had been given to the oppo
site party of an intention to examine him.
It appears, however, whatever may have been the intended
application of that rule, under the "code of civil procedure" or
otherwise, that it had become inoperative by the repeal in the
year 1858 of that se.tion of the Ohio code which required such
a notice to be giv en. The -epealing Act of 1858 is a statute to

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

587

Wright vs. Bales.
amend the 813th and 3.14th sections of the code of civil pro.
cedure.
The rejection of Wright, then, as a witness, for incompetency
to testify in his own behalf, raises again, in this Court, the question whether the statutory enactments of the States of the Union,
in respect to evidence in cases at common law, are not obligatory upon Judges in the Courts of the United States to apply
them as rules of decision in the trials of such cases.
The 34th section of the Judiciary Act of the 24th September,
1789, (Statutes at Large), is in these words: "that the laws of the
several States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes
of the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be
regarded as 'rules of decision' in trials at common law in the
Courts of the United States, in cases where they apply." Meain
ing by the word trials, as this Court has said in Wayman vs.
Southard, (10 Wheat.), matters of controversy, and not to execations and the mode of executing them. As to the application
and the extent of the allowances of the laws of the States in such
cases, this Court gave its interpretation of the 34th section very
fr lly in MclNeal vs. .olbrook, (13 Peters, 84). We then said:
"We do not perceive any sufficient reason for so construing this
Act of Congress as to exclude from its provisions those statutes
of the several States which prescribe rules of evidence in civil
cases in trials at common law. Indeed, it would be difficult to
make the laws of the State in relation to the rights of property
the rule of decision in the Circuit Court, without associating with
uhem the laws of the same State, prescribing the rules of evidence by which the rights of property must be decided. How
could the Courts of the United States decide whether property
had been legally transferred, unless 'they resorted to the laws
of the State to ascertain by what evidence the transfer must be
established. In some cases the laws of the States require written
evidence, in others it dispenses with it, and permits the party to
prove his case by parol testimony; and what rule of evidence
could the Courts of the United States adopt to decide a question
of property but the rule which the Legislature of the State has
prescribed? The object of the law of Congress was to make the

SUPREME COURT.
Wright vo. Bales.
rules of'decision in the Courts of the United States the iame with
those of the States; taking care to preserve the rights of tae
United States, by the exceptions contained in the same section.
Justice to the citizens of the several States required .his to be
done, and: the natural import of the words used in the Act of
Congress includes the laws in relation to evidence, so well as
the laws in relation to property. We think they are both embraced in it, and as by a law of Georgia the endorse'nents on
these notes was made prima facie evidence that they had been
so endorsed by the proper party, we think that thf: Circuit
Court was bound to regard this law as a rule of evidence." The
same ruling was repeated by this Court in Sims vs. HJvndley, (6
Howard, 1), -apon a question whether a notary's certific2te, made
evidence by a statute of Mississippi, was admissible in the Circuit Court of'the United States for that State. We s'.id, it is
true that upon general principles of commercial law, thit certificate would not be admissible. But it is made evidence by the
statutes of Mississippi; and the rules of evidence prescri ed by
the statute of a State are always followed in the Courts of the
United States when sitting in the State in commercial c, 'es as
well as in others.
Since these decisions were made, the Judges of the L Nited
States Courps have administered the laws of evidence o: the
States in conformity with them, and there was error in this zase
by the Court below for not having done so. For such ru ing,
we direct that the judgment be reversed and order a z.irej :ma
* nova.

