DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

721

Mesa vs. The United States.
execute it with fidelity, not for their bwn benefit. but for the
common benefit of the stockholders of the corporation.
In executing this mortgage, and thereby securing to them.
selves advantages which were not common to all the stock.
holders, they were guilty of an unauthorized act, and violated
a plain principle of equity applicable to trustees. "The
directors are the trustees or managing partners, and the stockholders are the cestuis que trust, and have a joint interest in
all the property and effects of the corporation, and no injury
that the stockholders may sustain by a fraudulent breach of
trust can, upon the general principles of equity, be suffered to
pass without a remedy."
Angel & Ames on corporations, edition 1861, sec. 312. The
Charitable Corporationvs. Sutton, (2 Atkyns, 404.) Robinson vs.
Smith, (3 Paige, 220.) Hodges vs. New England Screw Co., (1
Rhode Island, 321.) Y'nrk and North Midland Railway Co. vs.
udson, (19 Eng. L. & E., 361.)
The decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

MESA. vs. THE UNITED STATES.

1. An appeal must be prosecuted by filing the record within the
term next after the appeal is taken.
2. If it be brought up and filed after the first term has gone by,
the appeal will be dismissed.
This was a California land case, in which an appeal had beeni
taken by the claimant and one Clark, an intervenor. The
appellants suffered a term to pass without filing a copy of the
record in this Court, but at the second term brought up the
transcript and had it docketed.
Mr. Glillet, of Washington City moved that the appeal be
dismissed.
Mr. Magraw, of Pennsylvania; and Mr. McDougall of Califor.
aia, opposed the motion.
voL. Ii.

46

SUPREML COURT
Moran vs. Commissioners of Miani County.
PER CURIAM.-Let this appeal be dismissed. It has not
been prosecuted in the manner directed nor within the time
limited by the Act of Congress, which requires that the transcript shall be filed at the next succeeding term after the appeal
is taken

MORAN ET AL. vs. THE COMMISSIONERS OF MIAMI COUNTY.

1 Acts of incorporation and other statutes granting special privileges are to be construed strictly, and whatever is not given

in unequivocal terms is withheld.
2. But this principle must be applied with reference to the subject
matter as a whole, and not in such manner as to defeat the
general intent of the Legislature.
3. A county or other municipal corporation being authorized by

statute to borrow money and issue bonds for the payment

thereof, if the bonds be made and delivered reciting the facts,
which show them to have been regularly issued, the county is
estopped to deny their regularity or to assert that they were
.not made in conformity t- the statute.
4. Such bonds, with interest

varrants annexed, are commercial

securities; the holder of them has a full title; and as against
one who has taken them in good faith, the county cannot set
up the equities which might have been available against the
original payee.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Indiana.
Hr. Porter,of Indiana, for Plaintiffs in Error.
Ar. Ross, of Indiana, contra.
Mr. Justice WAYNE. This cause has been fully argued. It
is an action to recover the interest in arrears on coupons annexed
to bonds which were issued by Miami County, payable to the
Peru and Indianapolis Railroad Company, or bearer, and which
is declared in the bonds to be given for a loan of money. We

