SUPREME COtRT.

576

Congdon et al. and Tennessee Mining Company vs. Goodman el al.
Iary to give it any further examination. Suffice it to say, that
in our opinion the instructions requested should have been
given, and those given should have been withheld. The respective judgments of the Circuit Court are accordingly reversed
and the causes remanded, with instructions in each case to issue
a new venire.

CONGDON,

ET AL.,

AND TENNESSEE MINING
GOODMAN AND BLEDSOE.

COMPANY

vs.

A controversy in. which no right is claimed under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, but which turns entirely upon
the validity or interpretation of State Laws, is exclusively
within the jurisdiction of the State Court, and this Court has
no appellate power over its judgment.
Error to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The defendants in error in this cause were the Common
School Commissioners of the Eighth Civil District of Polk
County, Tennessee, who in that character filed their bill on the
13th of February, 1856, in the Chancery Court at Benton, to
impeach and set aside a lease for ninety-nine years, made by
their predecessors, of the Common School Section of land in
that district, and a sale made of the same land under an order of
the Circuit Court of that County. The validity of the si1e and
lease was impeached and maintained upon the authority of State
laws. The Chancery Court dismissed the bill. On appeal to
the Supreme Court of Tennessee, the decree was reversed and
the case remanded for final proceedings. Defendants below
thereupon sued out their writ of error in the Supreme Court of
the United States.
Hr. .eigs, of Tennessee, for Plaintiff in Error.
No counsel appeared for Defendants in Error.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY.

This writ of error is directed to

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Russell vs. .Ely et al.
the. Supreme Court of Tennessee, and is brought to revise a
decree of that Court which declared null and void a certain sale
and lease of school lands in Polk County, under which sale and
lease the plaintiffs in error claimed title to these lands.
The statement of the facts in the transcript will show that the
validity of this sale and lease depended altogether upon the
'laws of the State, and the proceedings of the State authorities.
The plaintiTs in error do not claim under any laws of Congress,
or any authority exercised by the United States. On the con.
trary, they deny the authority of Congress to pass the Act of
1843, (which is the only Act of Congress referred to,) and claim
that a lease for ninety-nine years, made by the School Commis.
sioners under a law of the State, was valid, and passed the title
for the term, although in direct opposition to the provisions of
the Act of Congress. Such a controversy, where no right is
claimed under the Constitution or laws of ,the United States, is
exclusively within, the jurisdiction of the State Court, and this
Court has no appellate power over its judgment. This writ
must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

RUSSELL vs. ELY ET AL.

I. In Wisconsin the fee of mortgaged premises, rests in the mort
gagee or assignee only after foreclosure and sale: not upon the
mere default of the mortgagor.
2. A deed in fee, executed by the mortgagor, subsequent to the
mortgage-deed, but prior to the foreclosure, passes the legal
title.
3. But if the mortgagee is in lawful possession of the mortgaged
premises, after condition broken, he will not be turned out
until the debt is paid.
4. Possession obtained by the mortgagee through an arrangement
with'the tenant of the mortgagor whose lease has expired,
without the consent of the mortgagor, is not lawful possession.
5. It is not necessarily error for a Court tc instruct the Jury,

