DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

545

Parker vs. Wiiniplseogee Lake Colon and Woollen Company.
869), and were resolved in the affirmative. They have since
been repeatedly before the Court, and. have, upiformly, been
decided in the same way. Dodge vs. Woolsey, (18 How., 831);
Aechanics' and Traders' Bank vs. Debolt, (18 HoNr., 380); Jefferson
Branch Bank vs. Skelley, (1 Black, 436); FranklinBranch Bank
vs. The State of Ohio, (1 Black, 474).
Whatever differences of opinion may have existed in this
Court originally in regard to these questions, or might now
exist if they were open for reconsideration, it is sufficient to say
that they are concluedd by these adjudications. The argument
upon both sides was exhausted in the earlier cases. It could
subserve no useful purpose again to examine the subject.
The decree of the. Court below is affirmed, with costs.

PARKER -vs. WINNIPISEOGEE LAKE COTOrON AN D WOOLLEN
CoMrNY.
1.Where a party brings a bill in equity complaining of an injury
for which he has a plain, complete and adequate remedy at law,
the bill must be dismissed.
2. In the Courts of the United States, such an objection goes to
the jurisdiction of the forum, and may, therefore, be enforced
by the Judges sua sponte, though not raised by the pleadings
or suggested-by the counsel.
8. A decree affirmed dismissing a bill for a private nuisance
in which the nature of the injury was not set out in such a
manner as to show that the plaintiff Was without a legal
remedy.
4. Courts of Equity have concurrent jurisdiction with Ccurts of
Law in cases of private nuisance, but to this jurisdiction of the
former Courts there are some limitations; for many cases will
sustain an action at law, which will not justify relief in equity.
In what cases a Court of-Equity will enjoin a nuisance and in
what cases not
VOL. II.

85

SUPREME COURT.
Parkervs. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton and Woollen Co'mjany.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Hampshire.
Mr. Curtis, of Massachusetts, for Appellant
Mr.Hackett, of New Hampshire, contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This is a suit in equity. The ap.ellant filed his bill to procure a remedy against an allegea
nuisance. The Circuit Court dismissed the bill. He thereupon
appealed to this Court.
It appears in the case that the appellant is the owner in. fee
simple of a certain parcel of land situated on the Winnipiseogee
River, in the Village of Meredith Bridge. He owns, also, in conaection with this real estate, the right to use "one-half of the
water sufficient to carry wheels for operating a trip-hammer,
grindstone, and bellows." He claims under Stephen Perly,
whose title is undisputed. Perley conveyed the\land and the
whole of the water-power mentioned to Daniel Tucker, by deed
bearing date February 27, 1808. Tucker conveyed the same
premises, on the 14th of April, 1832, to F. W. Boynton. The
deed of Perley is referred to in Tucker's deed for a description
of the land and water right thereby conveyed. While the
premises belonged to Tucker, the dam at Meredith Bridge was
rebuilt. The amount to be paid by each of the parties interested
in the water-power was fixed by arbitration. The arbitrators
awarded that Tucker should pay two-twelfths of the cost of the
dam "upon the Meredith side of the river," and he paid accordingly.
On the 29th of October, 1824, Boynton, by deed of that date,
conveyed to Asa F. Parker. In this ded the water right is
thus described: "Which said water privilege is.
the right to
draw one-half of the water from the flume connected with the
premises." On the same day Asa F. Parker, by deed containing
the same description of the premises, conveyed to the appellant.
The Winnipiseogee river has its source in Winnipiseogee
Lake. The Lake has its outlet at a place called the Weirs, six

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Parker vs. Winnipiseogee Lake (oton and Woollen Yompany.
miles above tAe Village of Meredith Bridge. The oUtlet was
formerly, by a natural channel, from five to seven hundred feet
in length. The water discharges itself from this channel into
Long Bay-a. sheet of water about four and a half miles long,
and from half a mile to a mile wide. At the foot of Long Bay
the water is again discharged by- a channel about-a thousand
'feet long into "Little Bay." At the outlet from Long Bay is
Lake Village. From Little Bay the water is discharged into
Sanborton Bay, by a- channel about fifteen hundred feet in
length. At the outlet of Little Bay is Meredith Village, where
th premises of the comlainant are-situated. Little Bay forms
the headwater of the dam from which the appellant's waterpower is supplied.. The water is discharged out of Sanborton
Bay, at or'near a place called Union Bridge, and thence pursues
its course, about ten or twelve miles, to its confluence with the
Pemigewasset, below which the united streams take the name of
the Me timac.River. This river-receiving several affluents on
its way-passes by and supplies with their water-power the
manufacturing towns of Lowell and Lawrence.
The dam at Meredith Bridge was built prior to 1808. There
is a dam at Lake Village, which was built in 1829.
After Perley conveyed to Toker he cut a canal through his
own land, tppping Little Bay, above the dam at Meredith
Bridge, and discharging into the river, below the dam, at its
entrance into Sanborton Bay.
The defendant is a corporation, created, and clothied with its
powers by acts of the Legislature of New Hampshire. Its stock
is owned by the great manufacturing companies of Lowell and
Lawrence, except a few shares, held for purposes of convenience,
by individuals. The main object of its creation was to secure a
more abundant and regular supply of water for the mills at those
places. This was to be -accomplished by making Lake Winnipiseogee a vast reservoir of water, to be accumulated and
retained in wet weather, and .to be drawn off and passed down.
the stream, as it might be needed, in dry.weather.
The flow of water below the lake was thus to be equalized as
far as practicable, throughout the year.

SUPREME COURT.
Parkervs. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton and Woollen Company.
With a view to this object, the defendant has bought up all
the water-rights relating to the lake, and all those upon the river
above, and for some distance below, Meredith Bridge. Those
holding such rights at that village have been compromised with,
except the appellant. The answer avers that he was offered the
.same that was paid to others, and that he refused-seeking to
extort an unreasonable and unconscionable sum.
The defendants made excavations at the Weirs in 1845-6,
whereby the lake can be drawn down from four to six feet lower
thaii'was before possible.
They erected a new stone dam at Laket Villaga in 1851. By
means of this dam they can arrest the floW of the water so as to
raise it above the intermediate descents 1 kck to the lake, and
raise the water in the lake and retain it there.
They have enlarged the Perley Canal aid increased the flow
of water through it. This was done in 1846.
In making their purchases and improvements, the defendants
have expended about $300,000. All was done without any
objection from the appellant.
It is admitted by the answer, that the defendants intend to
make still deeper excavations at the Weirs, and that they have
controlled and intend hereafter to control the waters of the lake,
both by retention and discharge, so as to equalize at all times
throughout the year, as far as practicable, the flow of water
below the outlet of the lake.
The gravamen of the appellant's grievances is thus alleged in
this bill:
"And the said defendants have thus caused a proportionate
inequality in the quantity of water flowing in the river Winnipiseogee, by the premises of your orator greater than any
inequality which naturally arose from the ordinary changes of
the season, or from the ordinary fl-ictuations in the head of
water in the said lake before the attempted regulation of the
same by the said defendants-to the molestation, damage, and
injury of your orator in the use and improvement of the said
mill privilege and water-power aforesaid."
"And your orator further represents, that his said water-power

DECEMBER TERM, 1862
Parkervs. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton aad Woollen Company.
is damaged to the same extent as the equality of supply of water
at all seasons is disturbed'
"And that the defendants, with the intent and design to
deprive your orator of his just rights, have seized upon and
taken possession of the waters of the said Winuipiseogee Lake
and River, to regulate and control them as aforesaid, and to use
the said lake as a reservoir, out of which to supply the Merrimac River with water in time of drouth, and to use the said
Winuipiseogee River as a channel through which to regulate
and control such supply, whenever and as often as the supply
of water in the Merrimac from other sources may fail, or become
insufficient for a motive power for the use of the manufacturing
establishments situated thereon, and for the benefit, profit, and
advantage of such manufacturing establishments, their owners
or occupants, or parties interested therein, or some of them, and
to the hurt and damage of your orator in the use, value, and
c'ipacity for improvement of his said water-power at Meredith
Bridge aforesaid."
In reply to these allegations, the defehdants say, "that they
have, ever since said dam and excavation were made, used and
occupied the same-for the purpose of giving greater regularity
and steadiness to the flow of water in said river, and to reserve
and hold back the surplus water, which would, at wet seasons
and during spring freshets, have otherwise run to waste, retarding and interfering with the operation and use of the mills upon
said Wnnipiseogee and Merimac Rivers, and discharging the
same at such times as the same was required in consequence of
the low state of the waters in said rivers for the use thereof, and
that the water of said lake and bay ha- been so managed and
used as to be a material benefit and advantage to the mills upon
said rivers."
"And the defendants deny that they have. in any manner
caused a proportional inequality "inthe quantity of water flowing in the River Winnipiseoge6, by the premises of said complainant, greater either than any inequality, which naturally
arose from the ordinary changes of the seasons, or from the
oriinary fluctuations in the head of water in the said lake

SUPREME COURT.
Parker-vs. W'nnipiseogee Lake Cotton and Woollen Cornpany.
before the regulation of the same by the said defendants, to the
molestation, damage, or injury of said orator, in the improvement of his said mnill privilege and water-power. And said
defendants furthef say, that said complainants' water-power is
not damaged by anything which has been done by them, the
equality of the supply of water being not otherwise disturbed
by them than is in this answer hereinbefore set forth, and its
supply being rendered more equal at times when it was firmerly
weanty, and the excess of water being prevented at peiiods of
high water, which would not aid; but would retard by backwater the operation of said complainants' mill."
The issue between the parties is thus presented. Several
other matters of defence are set forth in the answer. The view
which we have taken of the case renders it unnecessary particularly to advert to them.
. The appellant alleges an -injury to his water-right commensurate, in extent, with the additional inequality in the flow of
water in the river, Which he alleges to have been caused by the
works of the defendants.
They. deny the injury, and claim that his water-power is
improved. The appellant does not state in his bill how the
injury is produced, nor in what it consists. The particular
nature of the injury is unexplained. He complains neither of a
diminished supply of water nor of back-water. We have looked
carefully into the evidence upon the subject; the result is, that
we are left in-doubt upon which side lies the truth. We have
failed to find those clear fact of rights upon one side, and wrong
upon the other, which are necessary to quicken into activity the
powers of a Court of Equity. We forbear to pursue this in
quiry, because the case presents another ground. free from doubt
upon which we prefer to rest our decision.
It was urged at hearing, as an insuperable objection to the
relief prayed for, that the appellant has not established his right
by an action at law. The objection was not taken by demurrer,
or in- the answer. In the Courts of the United States, 'it is
regarded as jurisdictional, and may be enfrced by the Court
mua yont,., though not raised by the pleadings, nor suggested by

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

551

1'arkr vs. Winnipseogee Lsake Cottqo an4 Woiten Gnis,.

counsel. 2 Or., 419; 5 Pet, 496; 2 How., 383. ThQ 16th section
of the Judicial Act of 1789 provides, "thst suits in equity shall
not be sustained in either of the Courts cf the United States in
any case where plain, adequate, and complete remedy can be had
at law." This is merely declaratory of the pre-existing rule, and
ioes not apply where the remedy at law, is not "plain, adequate,
and complete," or, in other words, where it is not "as practical
and as efficient to the ends of justice and to its prompt administration as the remedy in equity." 3 Pet., 215.. But where the
remedy at law, is of this character, the party, seeking redress
must pursue it. In such case the adverse party has a constitutional right to a trial by jury. 19 How., 278.
:
The concurrent jurisdiction of Courts of Equity in cases'of
private nuisance, dates back to an early period in the growth ot
the English equity system. 1 Spencei 672. It has been greatly
enlarged since the time-of Lord Thurlow. 7 Vesey, 307, 308;
33 Cond. Eng. Ch. Rep. 236. It is now too firmly established to
be shaken, but it is not without limitation. It is governed by
the same principles which animate and control its action in other
cases where its aid may be invoked against a wrongdoer.
Many cases of private nuisance will sustain an action at law
'which will not justify relief in equity. 16 Vesey, 338; Story's
Eq. Jur., sec. 925.
A Court of Equity will interfere when the injury by the
wrongful act of the adverse party will be irreparable, as where
the loss of health, the loss Qf trade, the destruction of the .ieaus
of subsistence, or the ruin of the property must ensue. 2
Swanst., 335; -16 Vesey, 342; 2 Ver., 646; 2 Bro. C.R., 64 ; "10
Vesey, 163; 6 Paige, 83; Wat. Eden, 659, note.
It will also give its aid to prevent oppressive and interminable ligitation, or a multiplicity of suits, or where the injury is
of. such a nature that it cannot be adequately compensated by
inmages at law, or is such, as from its continuance or perma:nent mischief, must occasion a constantly recurring grievance,
which cannot be prevented otherwise than by an injunction.
Mitf. Eq. PI., by Jeremy, 144, 145; Jer., Eq. 300; 1 Dick. 168;
16 Ves, 342; 6 J. C.R., 46; 6 Paige, 83.

SUPREME COURT.
.Parkervs. Winnipiseogee Lake CoUto and Woollez& Company.
A diminution of the value of the premises without irreparable injury is no ground for interference. 2 Bro. C. C. 65 ; 16,
Vesey, 342; 3 M. & K., 169.
Where an injunction is granted without a trial at law, it is
-tsually upon the principle of preserving the property, until a
trial, at law can be had. A strong prima facie case of right
must be shown, and there must have been no improper delay.
The Court will consider all the circumstances and exercise a
careful discretion. Or.& Ph., 283.
Whete an injunction in such a case has been granted, and the
complainant fails to proceed with diligence in his action at law,
the injunction will be dissolved. 4 IT & C., 498.
A aelay of three .years or more has been frequently held to be
such laches as will preclude a party from relief in equity until
he has vindicated his right at law. 1 Cox, 102; 2 J. C. R., 379;
8 J. C. R., 282; 6 J.O. R., 19; 5 Met., 8.
The better opinion now is, that it is only a fact to be considered by the Chancellor, in connection with the other facts of
the case, by-which his discretion is to be guided. Wood vs. Sutc'iif (8 Eng. L. & E., 217); Sprague vs. Rhodes, (4 Rhode I., 304).
"Until the rights of the parties are settled at law, only a
tnporary injunction is issued, to prevent irreparable injury."
rwin vs. Dixon, (9 How., 10).
This jurisdiction is applied only where the right is clearly
established-where no adequate compensation can be made in
damages, and where delay itself would be a wrong. 2 Swanst.,
816; Angel on Wat. Courses, 475.
The case must be one "of strong and imperious necessity, or
the right must have been previously established at law." 6 Barb.
S. C. R., 160; 7 Barb. S. C. R., 400; 2 J. 0. R., 164; 4 B. & C,
8; 37 New H., 254; 17 )[aine, 202. The right must be clear
and its violation palpable. 6 Barb. S. C. R., 160.
If the evidence be conflicting and the injury doubtful, this
extraordinary remedy will be withheld. 3 Paige, 210; 1
Cooper's Sel. Cas., 333; 3 M. & K., 169; 5 Met., 8; 9 Gill. & J.,
668; 3 J. C. R., 282; 2 Barb. Ch.R., 282; 1 Dev. Eq. R., 12.
After the right has been established at law, a Court of Chan.

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

553

Parkervs. Winnipiseogee Lake Cotton and Woollen Company.

ery will -not, as of course, interpose by injunction. It will
consider all the circumstances, the consequences of such action,
and the real equity of the case. 4 Rhode I., 301; 8 E. I &E.,
217; 9 E. L. & E., 104; 18 Eng. Cond., Ch. R., 436.
The estate of the appellant in the water is an easement -or
servitude annexed to his land. As before stated, the excavation
was made at the Weirs, and the Perley canal was deepened in1846. The stone dam was erected in 1851. The appellant
brought his bill on the 18th of September, 1855. During these
intervening periods, according to his own showing, he slept upo4
his.rights. 8 E. L. & E., 223. He does not allege either danger
of irreparable injury, or of protracted litigation-,qr of a multiplicity of suits, as the ground upon which he seeks relief in
equity. There is no warrant for such an averment. If he has
been injured, his injury can be ascertained and fully repaired by
damages in an action of law. A jury is the tribunal provided
by law to determine the facts and to fix the amount, and :they
can best perform, this duty. The fact that other proprietors
have been paid bears upon this point. 8 E. L. & E., 222, 223.
The appellant can have no standing in a Court of Equity until,
he has laid this foundation for relief. This objection is fatal to
the case. We decide nothing else.
There are cases in which a Court of Equity will take juris:diction and give a complete remedy without the previous intervention of a Court of Law. 6 Yes., 689; 1 McLean, 355; 89
New H., 186; 8 E. L. & E., 217; 4 Rhode I., 301; 4 M. & Cr.,
133; 3 Hare, 593; 2 Coll., 431; 7 Hare, 221. But this case
does not belong to that class.
The Circuit Court committed no error in dismissing the
appellant's bill.
The decree below is affirmed, with costs.

