64

SUPREME COURT.

Wright et als. vs. Sill.
and undecided, and upon which different opinions may be enter.
tained, and in such cases he grants the appeal in order to bring
the matter before the Court and enable it to decide for itself
whether the case is or is not within their appellate jurisdiction
as regulated by the Act of Congress. The allocatur of a single
Judge certainly cannot enlarge the appellate powers of this
Court beyond the limits prescribed by law, and that law does
not authorize an appeal from an order directing execution to
issue to enforce a judgment.
This appeal must therefore be dismissed.

WRIGHT ET ALS. vS. SILL.

A question repeatedly argued and decided must be considered as no
longer open for discussion, whatever differences of opinion may
once have existed on the subject in this Court.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio.
This case was submitted to the Court upon the record, without any argument, written or oral.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE. This is a suit in equity, brought
here by appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of Ohio.
The questions presented are, whether the 60th section of the
Act of the Legislature of Ohio, entitled "An Act to incorporate
the State Bank of Ohio and other Banking Companies," passed
February 24th, 1845, constitutes a contract upon the subject of
taxation, which is binding upon the State; and, if so, wherner
that contract is impaired by the subsequent Act of the Legislature, passed April 5th, 1859, entitled "An Act for the assessment and taxation of all. the property in this State, and for
levying taxes thereon according to its true value in money."
These questioiis came before this Court the first time in the
Piqua Branch of the State Bank of Ohio vs. Knoop, (16 How.,

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

545

Parker vs. Wiiniplseogee Lake Colon and Woollen Company.
869), and were resolved in the affirmative. They have since
been repeatedly before the Court, and. have, upiformly, been
decided in the same way. Dodge vs. Woolsey, (18 How., 831);
Aechanics' and Traders' Bank vs. Debolt, (18 HoNr., 380); Jefferson
Branch Bank vs. Skelley, (1 Black, 436); FranklinBranch Bank
vs. The State of Ohio, (1 Black, 474).
Whatever differences of opinion may have existed in this
Court originally in regard to these questions, or might now
exist if they were open for reconsideration, it is sufficient to say
that they are concluedd by these adjudications. The argument
upon both sides was exhausted in the earlier cases. It could
subserve no useful purpose again to examine the subject.
The decree of the. Court below is affirmed, with costs.

PARKER -vs. WINNIPISEOGEE LAKE COTOrON AN D WOOLLEN
CoMrNY.
1.Where a party brings a bill in equity complaining of an injury
for which he has a plain, complete and adequate remedy at law,
the bill must be dismissed.
2. In the Courts of the United States, such an objection goes to
the jurisdiction of the forum, and may, therefore, be enforced
by the Judges sua sponte, though not raised by the pleadings
or suggested-by the counsel.
8. A decree affirmed dismissing a bill for a private nuisance
in which the nature of the injury was not set out in such a
manner as to show that the plaintiff Was without a legal
remedy.
4. Courts of Equity have concurrent jurisdiction with Ccurts of
Law in cases of private nuisance, but to this jurisdiction of the
former Courts there are some limitations; for many cases will
sustain an action at law, which will not justify relief in equity.
In what cases a Court of-Equity will enjoin a nuisance and in
what cases not
VOL. II.

85

