DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Ogilvie el al. vs. Knox Insurance Company el at.

OGILVIE ET AL. vs. KNOX INSURANCE

COMPANY ET AL.

1. The creditors of an indebted corporation may have the aid of a
Court of Equity against such corporation and its debtors, to
compel the collection of what is due to it, and the payment of
the debt it owes.
2 Where a bill for that purpose is brought by some of the creditors
and prosecuted to a decree, and afterwards other creditors get
judgments, and are permitted, by the Court, to come in as
parties, with the averment, that there are also other debtors
of the corporation, who should be compelled to pay for their
benefit, the Court cannot make a decree, settling tle principle
of the distribution, until the assets are collected, and the
amounts received from the different classes of debtors ascertained.
3. A decree made before the funds of the corporation are collected,
that all the moneys recovered, or to be recovered, shall be distributed among the original complainants, and the several per.
sons who have filed their petitions to be made parties, and
appointing a Master to state an account, is not a final decree
in the cause.
4. If the original complainants appeal from such a decree on the
ground that it is unjust to them, the appeal must be dismissed
as premature.
5. The Court will not be in a condition to make a final decree, until
all the facts upon which the rights of-the parties depend -are
ascertained.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the
District of Indiana.
Mr. Gillet, of Washington City, and Mr. Judah, of udiang,
For the Appellants.
Hr. Gookins, of Indiana, for the Appellees.
Mr. Justice GRIER.

When this case came before us on a

SUPREME COURT.
Ogilvie et al. vs. Knox Isurance Company et al.
former occasion (see 22 How., 330,) the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill was reversed, and the record remanded,
with 'instructions to that Court to enter a decree for the complainants against the respondents, severally, for such amount as
should appear was due and unpaid by each of them on their
several shares of the capital stock of the Knox Insurance Company, and to have such other and further proceedings as to
justice and right might appertain.
At the May Term, 1860, of the Circuit Court, a decree was
entered, in conformity with the judgment of this Court, ascertaining the amount of the judgments, due by the Insurance
Company to the several complainants, and the several amounts
due by each of the stockholders, respondents to the company.
At the next November Term divers other creditors of the Company filed their petitions, setting forth that they also had become
judgment creditors of the Company, and praying to be made
parties to the bill, and suggesting that there were other persons
indebted to the Company "whose indebtedness ought to be paid
for the benefit of the petitioners;" that the amount found to be
due from those against whom a decree has already been rendered
was insufficient to liquidate the claims of the petitioners and
other parties entitled to participate in the distribution of said
funds; and praying that a Receiver might be appointed to receive and collect from the persons so indebted the amounts due
by them, respectively, &c., &c. The Court then appointed a
Receiver, according to the request of petitioners. But before
the funds of the Company were collected, on the 7th of Decem-"
ber, the Court entered a decree that all the moneys recovered
or'to be recovered under the decree made at last term be distributed among the original complainants and the several persons
who ha&: filed their petitions, praying to be made parties, complainants, &c., &c., and appointing a Master to state an account,
&c.
The appellants contend that this decree is erroneous and unjust to the original petitioners. This may possibly be found to
be true wl en the proper time comes to have it reviewed. Bat
Cue zppeal as well as the decree, is premacure. There is no final

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

.41

Callanvs. May.

decree in the case. After the assets are all collected by the
Receiver, so that the Master may ascertain the "amount to be distributed, the question now proposed will be properly raised,
and decided on exceptions to the Master's report. That report
should state the amount of assets to be distributed; the amount
collected from the original defendants, also the other amounts collected by the Receiver from persons not in the decree; whether
the amounts collected from the parties respondent are sufficient
to pay each of the original parties complainant ? if not, how
much to each; how much other assets have been collected by
the receiver, and how much would be coming to each creditor
on the hypothesis that all the assets are to be divided among
all the creditors equally.
With these facts ascertained, the Court will be in a condition
to make a final decree, which can be reviewed by this Court
but not till then.
The appeal is therefore premature, and must be diAmissed.

CALL"

vs. MA.

L Real estate being sold under a regular proceeding of the Circuit
Court, an order of the same Court awarding process to put the
purchaser in possession, is not a decree from which the tenant
can appeal to this Court.
2. If the tenant had an agreement with the purchaser, which gave
him the right to remain in possession, his remedy was a bill
for an injunction, in which a final decree could be passed and an
appeal legally taken.
8. The order of a Judge allowing an appeal, so far from being con-clusive upon the Court, does not even imply that the Judge
himself, has a settled opinion concerning the appellant's right.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The record brought up by this appeal showed that in 1862 a

