DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

699

Appletm vs. Bacon & North.
that the capture of the vessel and.cargo i4 this case, and in all
cases before us in which the capture occurred before the 13th
of July, 1861, for breach of blockade, or as enemies' property,
are illegal and void, and that the decrees of condemnation should
be reversed and the vessel and cargo restored.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, Mr. Justice CATRON and Mr.
Justice CLIFFORD, concurred in the dissenting opinion of Mr.
Justice Nelson.

APPLETON vs. BACOT & NORTH.

Parties engaging the services of an inventor, under an agreement that he shall devote his ingenuity to the perfecting of
a machine for their benefit, can lay no claim.to improvements
conceived by him after the expiration of such agreement.
This was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the District of
Columbia.
On. the 7th of December, 1858, the appellhnts, Appleton, filed
their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columaia for an injunction to restrain the defendant,
Bacon, from using, selling or trading with, or otherwise employing a certain patent right for a new and improved mode of
folding paper invented by defendant, North, which had been
issued by the Patent Office to the defendant, Bacon, on the 10th
of August, 1858.' And'also from constructing or authorizing,
to be constructed any machine or machines, having or containing the said improvement, &c., as aforesaid patented to
him, until the further order of the Court; that he be decreed to
surrender and deliver up the said letters-patent to be cancelled,
that they be declared void, and for general relief on the ground
that the coriplainants were assignees of the invention, and the
patent should have been issued to them, but the defendant
Bacon, had fraudulently procured it to be issued to himself.
The defendant, North, admitted all the facts stated in the bill,

SUPREME COURT.
Alpleton vs. Bacon & North.
The defendant, Bacon, denied all fraud and set up title in himself by reason of certain contracts alleged to have been made by
North, (the inventor,) with a Company called the American
Book and Paper Folding Company, which he alleged had been
assigned to him, and that North had recognized and was acting
under the said assignments at the time he made the said improvements.
No replication was filled, but evidence was taken on both
sides. North was examined as a witness by complainants, under
an agreement saving exceptions to his competency, and his
testimony was by the Court ruled to be inadmissible.
The Court held that when part of the improvements were made
by North he was in the employment of Bacon, under some
agreement, (either exp)ress or imp~lied,) and that all improvements
made by him while so employed should be the property of
Bacon. As to those improvements, they decreed that they
rightfully belonged to Bacon, and as to those discovered after
he went out of Bacon's employment, they belonged to the complainants.
From this decree cross-appeals were taken by the respective
parties to the Supreme Court.
Hr. Bradley and Mr. McCalla, of Washington City, for Ap
pellants, Bacon and North.
Hr. Carlisle and Mr. Webb, of Washington City, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is an appeal from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia.
The bill was filed by the plaintiffs against the defendant,
Bacon, to compel him to surrender and cancel letters patent for
a new and useful machine for folding paper, granted 10th of
August, 1858. Both parties set up a claim to the invention as
assignees of John North, the inventor. The assignments to the
plaintiffs were made under the dates of 12th of August, 1858,
and 7th July, 1859. The defendant claims under an agreement

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

70i

.Appleton vs. Bacon & North.

made between North and the American Book and Paper Folding Company, dated 6th of February, 1854, and between the
same Company and Newell and John North, 2d of May, 1854,
and by a subsequent verbal agreement between the defendant
and John North sometime in May, 1856.
According to the terms of the two written agreements between
North and the American Company the former stipulated to
engage in the service of the Company, and devote himself to the
making of improvements in paper-folding machines for a compensation mentioned; and, further, that all improvements and
inventions made or discovered should be the property of the
Company; and that he would take all proper steps for the purpose of procuring patents for said improvements. It was furthel
stipulated that this agreement may be terminated by North oil
giving three months' notice after having served one year, and
the Company at any time on giving thirty days' notice.
This Company,. having subsequently resolved to close theii
business, gave a written notice to North on .the 30th of May
1857, that his services would be no longer required. And,
about'the same time, sold, at auction, among other things, thei,
interest in the improvements made by North in paper-folding
machines, including a patent issued 15th of April, 1856, to North
and another issued to E. N. Smith, 27th of November, 1849, and
reissued 7th of January, 1851, which interests and property
were purchased by one Anson Hardy. And, on the 1st of July,
1856, said Hardy assigned all-his interest in. the property to
Bacon 'the defendant.
The defendant, after his purchase of these machines, made a
verbal arrangement with North to enter into his service and
devote himself to making improvements in folding-maci ines
upon the same terms and conditions -as those under which he
had been previously engaged with the Company. This arrangement continued till about the middle of July, 1857, when he left
the service of the defendant and engaged in the manufacture of
sewing machines. Now, it is claimed, by the defendant, that
the inventions or improvements embraced in the paper-folding
machine in question were the fruits of the labors of North while

SUPREME COURT.

Appleton vs. Bacon & North.
engaged in his, the defendant's, service, and when he was entitled
to the benefit of his discoveries, or, when he (North) was engaged
in the service of the American Paper-folding Company who
were entitled to the benefit of these discoveries and which passed
to him, the defendant, by assignment. The right, as thus
derived, constitutes the title of the defendant to the invention
and patent in controversy.
It has already been stated, that, among the property which
passed to the defendant from the American Company through
Hardy, was the patent to North for a paper-folding machine
issued 15th of April, 1856. The labors of North, while in the
service of the defendant, were devoted to improvements upon
this machine, and it is this machine as improved in July, 1857,
when North left the service of the defendant, that it is claimed
embodied the invention and improvements in question, and for
which a patent was issued to the defendant 10th of August,
1858. The circumstances under which this patent was issued
will be stated hereafter. For the present, our inquiry is, whether
or not North made these discoveries while engaged in the service of the defendant, or in the service of thc American Folding
Company.
North, who was made a defendant and a party on the record,
was called as a witness on the part of the plaintiffs, and very
fully examined on both sides. No objection is taken to the
competency of his testimony before the officer taking it, nor in
the brief in this Court, and we must regard it, therefore, as
admitted by consent. This witness, after giving a history of
the machine, of its exhibition at the fair of the American Insti.
tute in the fall of 1856, and also at Appletons' bindery in
Franklin street, in the city of New York, in February, 1857,
and of some improvements made upon it at that place, states
that about the first of June, 1857, he removed the machine to
a shop in Middletown, Connecticut, and worked upon it there
some six weeks endeavoring to improve it, but with no good
results; gave up the effort and went into other business-making
sewing machines. This was, about the middle of July, 1857.
The difficulties in the working of the machine while at Apple.

DECEMBER TERM; 1862.

703

Appleton vs. Bacon & North
tons', and at Middletown, were in the adjustment to corres.
pond with the different signatures-the register, also, was im.
perfect-and a fulness in the sheet which wrinkled it.
This machine was afterwards removed to Colt's armory in
Hartford, Connecticut; and we have the testimony of E. K. Root
--a witness for the defendant, and mechanical engineer-who
examined it there, and saw it in operation. He was asked"Of the sheets you have seen folded on that machine what
proportion were crimped or wrinkled, and to what amount ?"
Answer: "My impression is that about one-half were wrinkled
more or less-pretty much all on one side of the machine-so
much as to be objectionable." . "To what extent, if at all, would
you consider the amount of wrinkling you observed as affecting
of itself the practical value of the machine?" Answer: "I
should say it would prevent its use on all good book work."
This testimony is confirmed by two other witnesses, Gavet
and Mathews.
The machine to which these witnesses refer and speak of
embodied all the improvements ever made upon it by North:
Indeed, it is admitted he made none after the middle of July,
1857, and it is quite clear from the evidehce that it was an
unsuccessful experiment as a practical folding machine, and
abandoned by him as such.
In the spring of 1858, North, at the solicitation of Mathews
who had charge of the bindery department of the Appletons,
turned his attention t6 the invention of a machine that would
fold the size of duodecimo sheets, all the previous machines that
had been constructed having been adapted only to the folding
of octavo volumes. As five-sixths of the business of book-folding was of the small size the invention was regarded as a great
desideratum. This is the machine afterwards produced by
North, and for which he applied to the Patent Office for a
patent. The necessary papers, model, and certificate of payment of the.patent fee were forwarded to the office 27th of May,
1858. The machine will fold books of both octavo and twelvemb size with entire success.
The papers and model were filed in the Patent Office 10th

SUPREME COURT.
De Hraft vs. Barney.
June, 1858, and the patent issued to S. T. Bacon, the defendant,
instead of to John North, the inventor, on the 10th of August
following, and this without any provious notice to him. How
this happened in the Commissioner's office has not been explained. It was a very grave irregularity. The specification
on file was in the name of North, the application in his name;
and the patent fee paid by him. We have seen the defendant.
to whom it was issued, had no right to it, legal or equitable.
The officer must have been imposed upon by the use of the old
machine of 1856. which we have seen was but an unsuccessful
experiment, and abandoned. The plaintiffs, as assignees of
North, have mada out a clear right" to the patent, and the decree
of the Court below must be reversed and the cause remitted,
with instructions to enter a decree for the plaintiffs, directing
the defendant to surrender the patent to be cancelled.

DE IKRAFFT vs. BA1tNEy.

1. In order to give this Court jurisdiction under the 22d section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789, the matter in dispute must be
money, or some right, the value of which can be calculated in
money.
2. A claim to the guardianship of the person and property of children, not on account of any pecuniary value attached to the
office, but upon other considerations, is not within the jurisdiction of this Court.
8. B'arry vs. Mercein, (5 How. 103,),re-stated and re-affirmed.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Columbia.
The appellant, De Kraffi, by two petitions filed in the Orphans'
Court of the District of Columbia, on the 2d of October, 1860,
and the 7th of September, 1861, alleged that by reason of a
decree of divorce rendered by the District Court of Jasper
County, Iowa, on the 18th .day of September, 1860, divorcing
from the appellee his wife, Mary De Kraffi Barney, since de-

