DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
that Linsey was in possession, is shown by his stable or blacksmith shop, by his enclosure and cultivation of the ground, or a
part of it. When in addition to these facts, a considerable part
of the house in which he and his family lived, was also on this
little flve-acre piece of ground, may it not be said that he had
possession of it by personal residence thereon?
We are of opinion that on the true construction of the statute
he had. It follows, from what we have said, that the patent
certificate issued to Thomas Lindsey was rightfully issued by
the Receiver and Register, that the act of the Commissioner in
setting it aside was illegal, and did not destroy the right thus
vested, that the land was not subject to entry by David Hawes,
and that the patent obtained by him, was wrongfully and
illegally issued to him, and that the plaintiffs are entitled to a
conveyance of the legal title from him and his co-defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and the
case remanded to that Court, with instructions to enter a decree
in conformity with this opinion.

DREDGE ET AL. vs. FORSYTH.

1. Am exception taken to the ruling of a Court, before the retirement of the Jury from the bar, may be drawn out in form and
sealed by ttie Judge afterwards.
2 The time within which it may be so drawn out and presented to
the Court, must depend upon the rules and practice of the
Court, and the judicial discretion of the presiding Justice.
3. A patent for land adjoining Peoria, subject to the rights of all
persons (French Villagers) claiming under the Act of 1823,
confers, notwithstanding that reservation, a title in fee simple
upon the patentee.
4. The title under such patent may be superseded and annulled by"
a survey under the Act of 1823, but it is in the meantime
good on its face, and will afford protection to the patentee in
possession under it.
5. The clause making the patent subject to claims under the Ac4

SUPREME COURT.
Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
of 1823, was intended to exonorate the United States fiom
liability in case a better title should be proved, and does not
create a trust in the patentee for the use of any villager who
mayafterwards get it surveyed to himself.
6. If the patentee takes possession of the land, and holds it under
the patent, his possession is adverse, and not subservient to a
claimant under the Act of 1823.
7. Although a confirmed claim under the Act of 1823, is on its faee
a better title than that acquired *under a patent issued before
the confirmation of, but subject to that claim, yet if the
patentee has been in possession seven years before suit brought
the Illinois Statute of limitation will protect him.
8. A patentee of a quarter section is secure -in his title to the
whole of it, if he has been in possession of a part claiming the
whole for seven years, though it has been subdivided into lots,
upon some of which he had no actual residence or occupancy.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
Mr.Ballance, of Illinois, for Plaintiffs in Error.
Mr. WVilliams, of Illinois, for Defendant in Error.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. This was an action of ejectment,
and the case comes before the Court upon a writ of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Ilhnois. Suit was brought in the Court below by the present
defendant against John D'edge, John A. Keys and Jesse Hester,
to recover possession of a certain parcel of land described in the
declaration as part of claims fbrty-five and sixty-nine, and part
of claims sixty-two and sixty three, in the village of Peoria, in
the State of Illinois, and also by metes and bounds. Plaintiff
alleged that on the first day of July, 1855, he was possessed of
the described tract, and that the defendants on the following day
entered into the premises, and have ever since that time unlawfully withheld the same. Defendants appeared and pleaded the
general issue and by co isent of parties their landlord, Charles

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
.Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.

-

Ballance, was, on the twenty-third day of July, 1856, made a
co-defendant in the suit. Issue being joined, the parties went to
trial, and the jury returned their verdict in favor of the plaintiff,
and judgment was subsequently entered on the verdict; but
upon' motion of the defendants, and satisfactory proof exhibited
by them that. they had. paid all the taxable costs, the judgment
was vacated and set aside by the order of the Court, and a new
trial was granted. No further proceedings were had in the
cause until the July Term, 1857, when the parties again went
to trial upon the general issue. Title was claimed by the plain
tiff under a patent from the United States to the legal representatives of one Antoine Lapance, who was an inhabitant or settler
within the purview of the Act of the third of March, 1823,
entitled "An Act to confirm certain claims to lots in the village
of Peoria, in the State of Illinois. He accordingly introduced
the patent, and deraigned his title from the patentees therein
described. Recurring to the patent, it will be seen that it bears
(late the first day of February, 1847, and was issued for a certain
lot of land surveyed and designated, as covered by claims
sixty-two and sixty-three, in the southwest fractional quarter of
fractional section nine, in township eight north, of range eight
cast, of the fourth principal meridian, in the State of Illinois.
Survey on which the patent is founded was approved on the
first day of September, 1840 and it is not controverted: that the
ancestor of the patentees was one of the inhabitants or settlers
described in the Act of Congress under-which the patent was'
granted. Two plats were also introduced by the plaintiff, which.
were objected to by the defend ants, upon the ground that they
were certified by the Surveyor of Public Lands, and not by the
Secretary of the Treasury. One was a plat of the village of
Peoria, and the other was a Plat of claim or lot sixty-three; but
the Court overruled the objections of the defendants, and the
plats were admitted in evidence. Certain portions of Edward
Cole's r~port, made to the Secketary of the Treasury, on the
tenth day of November, 1820, were also offered by the plaintiff,
to be read in evidence, as appears in the third volume of
American State Papers, relative to the public lands, Objection

SUPREME'COURT.
Dredge et aL.vs. Forsyth.
t the admissibility of the volume was dulymade y.the defendants, on the ground that it was not properly authenticated, but
the Court overruled the objection, and so much of the report as
relates to the claim in controversy was read to the jury. Various
deeds also from the heirs of Antoine Lapance to the plaintiff, or
to those under whom he claims, were given in evidence by the
plaintiff, and he also introduced a duly certified copy of a certain
Chancery proceeding for partition, which resulted in a decree
of sale of the interests of several of the parties under whom the'
plaintiff derived his 'title as a purchaser. Those proceedings
were introduced to show that the interests of parties owning
one-third of the premises in common with the plaintiff were duly
sold by a Commissioner of the Court in which the proceedings
took place, and that the same became vested in the plaintiff, as
a purchaser at a legal sale. Such was the substance of the
evidence offered by the plaintiff, as more fully set forth in the
transcript. On the other hand, the defendants claimed title
under a patent dated the twenty-fourth day of January, 1838, as
issued to Charles Ballance, granting to him the southwest fractional quarter of section nine, in township eight north, of range
eight east, in the district of lands subject to sale at Quincy,
Illinois, "subject, however, to the rights of any and all persons
claiming under the Act of Congress of the third of March, 1823,"
to which reference has already been made. They accordingly
gave the patent in evidence, together with a duplicate of the
receipt given by the Receiver of the Land Office, and the certificate of the Register, on which the patent is founded. Relying
on these evidences of title, the defendants also offered evidence
tending to show that Charles Ballance, or those claiming under
him, had been in possession of the premises, claiming title to the
same, from 1842 to the commencement of this suit. Much testi
mony was taken as to the possession of the premises, but
inasmuch as the plaintiff now concedes that the defendants
occupied the same from 1842 to the commencement of the suit,
the testimony will not be very fully reproduced.
On this state of the case the defendants requested.the Court to
instruct the jury: 1. That the title exhibited by them wa4

DECEMBER TERM, .1862.

567

Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
superior in point of law to that exhibited by the plaintiff. 2.
That the title of the defendants was a regular chain of title, deducible of record from the United States, and if they believed
from the evidence that the defendants, and, those under whom
they received the possession, had been in actual possession, by
residence, of the premises more .than seven years immediately
preceding the commencement of the suit, and were still in pos
session when the suit was brought, then the plaintiff was not
entitled to recover in this action. Other prayers for instruction
were also presented by the defendants; but in the view we have
taken of the case it will not be necessary tG refer to any other at
the present time. Both of these requests were refused. by the
Court, and the jury, among other things, were told: 1. That
the defendant, Ballance, acquired no absolute title to the lot in
question under his patent from the United States; but that the
other title, under the Act of 1823, was the paramount title. 2.
That in order to be protected under the law of 1835, he, or those
claiming under him, must have had po'ssession by actual residence on the land in controversy for seveu years next preceding
the commencement of this suit. Under these instructions, and
others which need not be noticed, the jury found that the defendants were guilty of unlawfully withholding from the possession of the plaintiff so much of claim sixty-three as is covered
by the southwesterly half of lot numbered one, in block fortyseven, in Ballance's addition to the town of Peoria.
1. Verdict was rendered on the 3d day of August, 1857, but
the bill of exceptions was not filed in Court until a subsequent
day in the same term; and it is contended by the plaintiff that
the record does not show that the exceptions were duly taker
before the jury retired from the bar of the Court. But the
objection is entirely without merit, so far as respects the prayers
for instruction presented by the defendants, and the instru.
tions given to the jury, as will appear by an examination of the
statement which immediately precedes the bill of exceptions,
as well as by the closing paragraph of the same. Just preceding
the forinal part of the bill of exceptions is the statement in the
iecord that "the following exceptions were made by the defend-

SUPREMfE COURT.
Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
ants upon the trial of this cause," and that the same "were
allowed by the Court ;" and immediately following the instructions given to the jury is the additional statement, that the.
"defendants then and there excepted" to the decisions and
rulings of the Court. Undoubtedly the rule is that the record
must show that the exception relied on was taken and reserved
by the party at the trial; but it is a mistake to suppose that it
has ever been held by this Court that it must be drawn out and
sealed by the Judge before the jury retire from the bar of the
Court. Great inconvenience would result from such a require.
ment, and in point of fact there is no such rule. On the contrary,
it is always allowable, if the exception be seasonably taken and
reserved, that it may be drawn out in form and sealed by the
Judge afterwards; and the time within which it may be so
drawn out and presented to the Court must depend on the rules
and practice of the Court, and the judicial discretion of the presiding Justice. Such was the rule laid down by this Court in
United States vs. Brielling, (20 How., 254), and we see no reason
to qualify it on the present occasion. See also Phelps- vs. Mayer,
(15 How., 160); Turner vs. Yates, (16 How., 28).
2. Certain exceptions were also taken by the defendants to the
ruling of the Court in admitting evidence offered by the plaintiff, as before explained, but inasmuch as the objections are the
same as those which came before the Court in Gregg, et al. vs.
Forsyth, 24 How., 179, we do not think it necessary to give
them any further examination, and they are accordingly overruled.
3. Repeated decisions of this Court also have settled the question that the presiding Justice was correct in refusing to instruct
the Jury that the paper title of the defendants was superior in
point of law to that of the plaintiff. Although the patent
under which the defendants claim is the elder, yet as the patcntee took it subject to the confirmed title under which the
plaintiff claims, this Court has uniformly held, and now holds,
that the latter, independently of any question of adverse possession, must prevail. Bryan vs. Forsyth, 19 How., 334; Mehan
et al. vs. ForsytA, 24 How., 175; Gregg vs. Tesson, 1 Black., 150

DECEMBER TER g, 1862.
Dredge el al. vs. Forsyth.
4. Suit was commenced in this case on the 9th day of July,
1855, and the evidence shows that Charles Ballance, or those
cuaiming under him, were in possession of the premises in controversy as early as 1842, and were also in possession when the
suit was commenced. Ballance commenced building a dwellinghouse on a part of the same quarter section in the year 1842,
and in the early part of 1844 moved into it with his family, and
since that time has continued to reside in that house. Some
of the witnesses testify that he claimed to be the owner of this
fractional. quarter as early as 1832, and that he has cultivated
part of it from that time to the date of the writ; but it will be
sufficient to state that the evidence clearly shows that he has had
his residence on the quarter section since the year 1844, and
that he, or those claiming under him, have been in the possession of the lot in question in this case throughout the entire
period of his residence in his present dwelling-house. Assumig the fact to be so, then, it is clear that the presiding Justice
erred in refusing to give the second instruction requested by
the defendants,- as well as in the instruction given upon that
subject. No person who has any right of entry into any lands,
tenements or hereditaments, of which any person may be possessed by actual residence -thereon, having a cofinected title in
law or equity from the State or the United States, can make
any entry therein under the limitation law of that State passed
in: 1835, except within seven years of the time of such possesion being taken. Sess. Laws 1835, p. 42.
When the patent under which the defendants claim was
issued, no survey of any lots granted to the inhabitants or
settlers in the village of Peoria had been made. Those persons therefore held but an inchoate right, which must first be
surveyed and designated before the right granted to them would
supercede the title acquired under the defendant's patent. They
might never make any claim, and in that event the other tile
would be valid. Consequently, this Court held in Bryan et a'.
vs. Forsyth, 19 How., 338, that, subject to that contingency, the
patentee under whom the defendants claim took a title in fee till
1840. when the title to the village lots was by the survey and

SUPREME

COURT.

Dredge et al. vs. Forsyth.
designation then made, ripened into a better title; but the Court
also held at the same time that the patentee was a fee simple
title on its face, and as such was sufficient to afford protection
to one claiming title under it, if accompanied by proof of such
possession for seven years, as is required by the Illinois statute
of limitation.
5. Reference is made by the plaintiff to th-ireservation contained in the patent, and the argument is, that the defendants
held possession of the land subject to the rights of the plaintiff,
and consequently that their possession was subservient and not
adverse to the plaintiff's title. But the proposition cannot be
sustained, as is obvious from the language of the patent. Fee
simple title is granted to the patentee and his heirs of the described tract, to have and to hold the same, together with all the
rights, privileges, immunities, and appurtenances, subject, however, to the rights of any and all persons claiming under the
before mentioned act of Congress. Looking at the language of
the patent, it is clear that the saving clause was designed merely
to exonorate the United States from any claim of the patentee or
his assigns in the event that any other person should prove a
superior title. Such was the view taken of that clause by this
Court in Mehan et al..vs. Forsyth, 24 How., 178, and in several
other cascz involving the same question, and we have no doubt
that such is the construction of the clause. Gregg vs. Tesson, 1
Black, 150. Applying these principles to the present case, the
conclusion necessarily follows, that the presiding Justice erred
both in refusing to instruct the Jury as requested, and in the
instruction given upon that subject. Gregg et al. vs. Forsyth,
24 How., 174.
6. Where a quarter section, as in this case, has been subdivided by the occupant and claimant into lots, it is not neoessary,
under the Illinois statute, in order to secure the benefit of the
]imitation of seven years, that the claimant should have an
actual residence on each lot of the subdivision in the sense in
which those terms are ordinarily understood, but it is sufficient
if he shows an actual residence for the entire period on some
one of the lots claiming the whole under the same title, and

DECE-MBER TERM,. 1862.

571

Kellogg vs. Forsyh.
that the lot in controversy was and is in the possession of his
tenant under his title, and pursuant to his claim. Gregg vs
Tesson, 1 Black, 150; L ndor vs. Kidr, 23 Ill. R., 51; Williams
vs. Ballance et al., 23 I1. R., 197; Gregg et al. vs. Forsyth, 24
How., .179. For these reasons the judgment of the Circuit
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded, with instructions to
issue a new venire..

KELLOGG vs.

FORSYTH.

RE) NOLDS vs. FORSYTH.
1. If an exception be seasonably taken. and reserved, it may be
drawn out and sealed by the Judge afterwards, and the time
within which it may be so drawn out and presented to the
Court, must depend on the rules and practice of the Court
and the judicial discretion of the presiding Justice.
2. The doctrine held by this Court in Bryan vs..Forsyth, (19 How.,
338,) Mahan vs Forsyth, (24 How., 175,) and Gregg vs. Tesson, (1 Black, 150,) concerning the effect of the saving clause
in patents forlblaims in Peoria, re-affirmed.
Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern'District of Illinois.
Mr. Ballance, of Illinois, for Plaintiffs in Error.
Afr. Williars, of Illinois, for Defendants.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD. These are writs of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois. Both suits were brought in the Court below by the
present defendant against the respective plaintiffs in error.
They were actions of ejectment, and were respectively commenced on the 18th day of November, 1851, to recover possession of certain but different parts of claim numbered seven in
the village of Peoria, as confirmed to Thomas Forsyth under the
Act of Congress. approved the 3d day of March, 1823, entitled
I .

