SUPREME COURT.
United Maes vs. Galbraithet aA.
transaotion between defendants and Vanderbilt out of rule of
caveat ei ptor I am of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the
Circuit Court should be affirmed;except as to twg-twentieths,
which I think were the property of Vanderbilt, and one-twentieth
the property of Frank Johnson, which, with the other seven
twentaeths held by Chenery, passed to defendants by Vanderbilt's
ale.

UNITED STATES vs. GALBRAITH ET AL.
A. In a California land case, the production of a fraudulent and
false certificate of approval signed by the Governor and
Secretary who signed the grant, and proved by the same
witnesses in the same way that the grant was proved, affords
(in the absence of explanatory evidence,) strong ground for
believing all the title papers to be fabricated.
. Where the date of a grant has been altered, while it was in the
hands of the claimants and is produced to the Court without
evidence, to show how the alteration came to be made, this
Court cannot confirm the title.
. The case of U. S. vs. West's Heirs reviewed, the facts stated
from the original record, and all its features shown to be
strikingly different from this case.
4. The fact that an espediente is found among those indexed by
Hartnell in 1847-8, is no evidence that it was made at the
time of its date.
This was a land claim originating before the Cominsion
appointed under the Act of March 3d, 1851, and coning into
this Court by appeal from the decree of the District Court for
the Northern District of California.
The petition of John D. Galbraith, John Sime, Richard RI
Sinton, and David T. Bagley asserted their right to a tract of
land containing four square leagues in Sonoma, called the Bolsa
de Tomales, bounded by lands of Juan Viojct, Bartolo Bojorques,
thz bay of Bodega and the creek (entre) of Tomales, unde? a

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
United States vs. Gahraithet aL
grant from the Governor, dated 12th June, 1846, to Juan N.
Padilla, whose title by sundry mesne conveyances became
vested in the petitioners.
The title papers consisted of 1. A petition for four square
leages, signed by Padilla, addressed to the Governor and dated
at Monterey, May 14th, 1846. 2. A marginal order of the
Governor, dated Los Angeles, May 20th, 1846, directing tho,
Prefect of the Second District "to report about the state of this
land with all the particulars concerning the same," and declarmg
that "when the return is made the -Governor will resolve." 3. -A
certificate of the Prefect (Manuel Castro) dated May 10th, 1846,
that Padilla had made application for the land, that the espediente was m that prefecture, and that the reports show the
land to be vacant and grantable. 4. A decree of concession
dated June 12th, 1846. 5. A borradorof a grant for five leagues,
dated same day 6. The grant or titu/o alleged to be the oragnal and bearing the date of February 12th, 1846. signed by Pio
Pico as.Governor, and attested by Moreno as Secretary. 7. Acertificate dated 14th June, 1846, and signed in the same way
by Pico and Moreno, that the grant had been confirmed by the
Departintal Assembly
The last two of these papers were produced by the claimants
from their private custody; the other five were brought from
the Surveyor-General's Office, where they were found filed
arranged and deposited in the form of an espediente with a class
of documents -known as being comprised in HartneWs Index.
An account of that Index will be found in United States vs.
Knzght's adm'7rs., (1 Black, 227.)
Parol evidence was given by the claimants to prove the hand.
writing of Padilla to the petition, of Castro to the mforme, of
Pico to the order of reference, and of Pico and Moreno to the
grant and certificate of approval. Moreno, the Secretary, was
himself called, and he testified that the signatures to the grant
and to the certificate of approval were genuine and made at the
time those documents bear date. On cross-examination, he said
that the grant appearing to be dated on the 12th of February,
he could not have signed it then, for he was not in office antil

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Galbrailhet al.
afterwards, Lut he must undoubtedly have signed it before the
4th of May, and he was convinced that he did so.
The word Febrero was plainly written as the date of the
original grant; all copies of it m the record have it so, and
every official translation gives February as the date. The claimants, themselves, at first, recited it as of that date in their
p'etition. But it appeared from the remarks of the Land Commission and otherwise, that the date had been altered by writing
Febrero over some other word, probably Juno. Of thib alteration no explanation was given to show when, how, or by whom
it was made. The paper did not appear ever to have been in
any custody but that of the claimants themselves, or the persons
from and through whom-the title was deduced.
The certificate of approval was shown not to be true by the
journals of the Departmental Assembly It was made certain
by these records that no such rant as this to Padilla was ever
laid before that body But there was no evidence in the case
besides that of Moreno, to show whether the false certificate was
actually made by the Governor and Secretary or by some other
person who counterfeited their signatures.
Mr. Hopkins, clerk in the Surveyor-General's Office and keeper
of the archives, was a witness in the cause, and gave it as his
opinion that the espediente was genuine. His testimony proved
that this espediente was numbered 571 on Hartnell's Index. and
;hat the grants in numbers 569, 570, 572, and 573, as well as
some others indexed by Hartnell, were originally dated on days
subsequent to the conquest, and afterwards altered to other days
before the conquest. He regarded these latter grants as
fraudulent.
Evidence was given of the occupancy, and use of the land by
the claimants. It did not establish any clear, notorious or well
settled possession previous to the conquest or at any time soon
afterwards.
The Land Commission decreed the confirmation of the title
with strong expressions of reluctance and much doubt concerning its honesty That decree was affirmed by t~ie District
Court from whence it came up to this Court by appeal where

.DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

397

United States vs. Galbraithet at.
the decree of the District Court was reversed and the cause
remitted with directions to take further evidence, (22 How. 89).
Much of the evidence referred to above was taken after the cause
went back.
The District Court upon the whole evidence considered and
adjudged the claim to be well founded in law. The decree in
accordance with that opinion was brought to the Supreme Court
on this appeal by the United States.
Mr BlBck, of Pennsylvama, and .Hr Gllet, of Washington
City, for the United States.
The title is not proved. The clainant has produced certain
witnesses who swear that in their opinion, the signatures to the
several papers, are genuine. This has often been held, not only
insufficient and unsatisfactory, but inadmissible. The testimony
of Moreno will not help them, because he is not a credible
man, and because he has told an incredible story and for the
still further reason, that his statement, if believed, is in confliet
with the whole theory of their case.
There is no record of the title, and on this point the case in
every material fact and circumstance, is precisely that of Knight,
decided at the last term. The espediente is among those ar.
ranged in 1847-8, by Hartnell, who gathered his materials from
the custom-house floor and from other places no better. He
did not know a true title from a false one-had not the means
of knowing-but picked up, put away and indexed whatever he
got his hands on.
The reasons which induced the Court last year to reject that
index, are strengthened a hundred fold by the evidence which
comes up with this record. The testimony of Captain Halleck,
showing how the papers were got, did indeed prove that they
werf, just as likely to be true as false, but here we have evidence from the lips of Mr. Hopkins, that some of them are
known to be false. The fact is established by affirmative proof
that this very espediente, No. 571, lies in the centre of five the
two others on each, side of it, are plainly fraudulent That
settles the character of the index, if anything can.

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Galbraithet al.
But these title papers bear upon their own face sufficient evi•dence to insure their condemnation.
The informe is dated ten days bQfore the order of reference.
It is barely possible to suppose that this might be an innocent
blunder. But the Court is certainly bound to presume nothing
in favor of a title which presents such an anachronism. The
language of the order and the declaration that when the prefect
shall report, the Governor will resolve shows that the report did
did not exist then, if it was made afterwards it is falsely dated,
and if falsely dated it is a fraudulent paper.
The grant is dated three months before the petition. Now
this date is either true or false. If it be true, the title is void,
for on the principle of Cambston's case, the Governor had no
power to make a grant without a petition. The claimants seeing
this difficulty and seeking to avoid it got into another by asserting that the date has been altered. By whom was it altered?
By themselves of course, for it never was in any other custody
How was it altered ? Fraudulentlr, for that is the presumption
oflaw, when there is no explanatory evidence. Itis in vain to say
that the date of a deed is not material. Of such a paper as this
it is the most materal part. If it was made before the 141h of
May, or after the 7th of July, it is a nullity It is highly important, therefore, to know whether it was or was not executed
at some intermediate time. The claimants did not permit the
paper to speak for itself, but obliterated the name of the month
and wrote another word over it, so that the true reading can
never be known. After having themselves falsely and designedly spoiled the evidence, covered up the truth and put it
out of your power, to ascertain when it was made they ask you
to supply a date suitable to their interests by mere presumption.
If all presumptions were in favor of the spoiler, and if Courts
could act on the principle that suitors must be encouraged in
falsifying their documents, then the reasonings of the-claamants'
counsel mighI have a chance of success, but the rule is directly
the reverse.
There is another, manifest and palpable fraud in those papers

-

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.

so

United Stats vs. Galbraithel at.
The certificate of approval, is either a forgery out and out, or
else *t was made by Moreno and Pico with a knowledge that it
was false. The claimants' counsel will not choose either horn
of lus dilemma, but they cannot escape. They introduced the
ccrlficate in evidence as a genuine paper, called Moreno to
prove it, and he swore to its execution as he swore to the other
papers. They gave it up only'when the truth as proved by the
journals became too strong to be faced down. If Moreno APico actually signed it, what is the value of other papers signed
by them and proved in the same way? If their names are
counterfeited, what shall be the moral status of the party that
got it done and used it ?
Mr. Hopkins' testimony to a fact is not to be disputed. But
his opinon is out of place on this record. He has assumed to
give judgment m the cause, and that judgment is manifestly
erroneous, being unsupported by evidence, and contrary to the
well settled law of the land.
The case of West's Heirs is not to the point. There the title
was admitted to have been made for one league, but after the
conquest, somebody (not the claimants) changed the grant so as
to make it read for two leagues, and the question was whether
this attempt to enlarge the grant destroyed it altogether. The
Court answered in the negative, and that settled a rule of property.
But here we are dealing with the law of eindence. The claimanta
can support their title only by proving that a grant was issued
after the date of their petition, and they produce the original
which is dated before the petition. To mend this fatal defect they
assert that it was altered by themselves. This is certainly the
first case on record of a party producing a paper which vested
in him the only title he pretends to have, and asking a decree
not because the paper is genuine, but because he alleges it to he
a forgery
A diseno or map is a necessary part of every land espediente,
and is distinctly required by the regulations of 1828. There are
cases in which -ts absence has been excused, but not cases like
this.

SUPREME COUR'.
United States vs. Galbraithet a7.
Mr Ashmun, of Massachusetts, and Mr ffill, of Missouri, for.
the claimants.
The possession of the grantee is ,vell made out, and sufficient
of itself to give his alienees a right to be confirmed in their title.
Alviso's case, 23 How., 318, Wilson's case, 1 Black, 267, De
Haro's case, 22 How., 293.
The Court is bound to act upon principles of equity, and
therefore to confirm the claim according to the possession
although a suspicious criticism may be able to raise a doubt
concerning the completeness of the espediente and the grant.
A map was not necessary in this case. The description of
the land was perfect without one. The external boundaries
could not be made more distinct by a diagram on paper.
Knight's case is not authority against the validity of tlis
espediente or against the truthfulness of Hartnell's index.
Knight's espediente had many infirmities and irregularities,
which are not found in Padilla's. It had no informe, nor was
any original grant produced, and its genuineness was impeached
by proof that Knight was not in a condition to receive such a
grant.
Nor is it just to deny the integrity of the index because there
are in it some espedientes besides that of Knight which are false
Hartnell found them, and though they appeared on their faces
to be altered, he did not presume to decide upon the legal effect
of those alterations. The index is conclusive on the United
States as proof that the espedientes all belonged to the Mexican
archives, but the value of each one must depend on the special
circumstances connected with it. Knight's case justly fell by its
own demerits.
The value of Mr. Hopkins? testimony. can hardly be over-estimated. He is (and the counsel on the other side acknowledge
it) a most faithful public officer of twenty years experienue, an
upright man, and every way a credible witness. He pronounces
-this espediente to be genuine. And there is other evidence
besides his to prove the handwriting of the severai bignatures.
The alteration of the grant by ohanging the date is immaterial it would be as valid if made in June as in February The

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
United States vs. Galbraithet al.
-ecords show that it was actually.made in June, the title was
vested before the alteration took place, and the alteration could
not operate as a forfeiture. It is not known when, how, or by whom
the alteration was made, but it is not important since the arcnves
and other evidence aliunde show that a good title existed before
the conquest. The case of West's Rewrs is directly in point, and
its authority is conclusive.
The certificate of approval is said to be a forgery This cannot defeat the claimants' right. If it were genuine, its production would be unnecessary That principle is established in
F'remont's case (17 HQward), and by the three cases of Cruz
ervantes, Taca, and Larkn, in 18 Howard. A good title having
been proved cannot be divested by proof that another document
offered in support of it is forged. Lloyd vs. Pannsngham,(16
Vesey; 59).
Mr. Justice NELSON. This is an appeal from a decree of thDistrict Court of the United States for the Northern District o
California.
The case presents a California land claim filed before tb j
Board of Commissioners April 29, 1852, by the assignees o I
Juan N. Padilla, to whom the original grant as alleged was
made of a tract of land containing five square leagues, 12th of
June, 1846, situate in the Department of Sonoma, and known
by the name of "Balsa de Tomales."
The claim was confirmed by the Commissioners, and on
appeal by the United States to the District Court the decree was
affirmed. Afterwards an appeal was taken to this Court, where
the decree of the District Court was reversed, and the cause
remitted to that Court for further testimony The case will-be
found reported in the 22 How., p. 89.
Tins Court, after referring to the grounds of objection to the
claim, namely, the unsatisfactory proof of any possession or
occupation of the tract, the alteration of the date of the original
grant of the title in form, which was in the hands of the grantee
and is assigns, and the questionable character of the certificate
of approval by the Departmental Assembly produced by the
VOL. 11.
26

SUPREIaE COURT.
UniWd States vs. Galbrdith el dl.
clajihants, expresd the opinion, that, in consid&rdti6n of the
dbiobtful character of the claim and entire want of any merits
upon the testimony, the decree below should be reversed and
the case remitted for further examination. Since then much
adflitiondl evidence has been taken by both parties before the
District Court, which Court again affirmed the decree of the
Commissioners, and the case is now here on an appeal from that
decree.
The espediente produced before the Commissioners and Court
below, contained the petition of Padilla, dated Monterey, 14th of
May, 1846, the informe dated at Los Angelos, 20th of May the
certificate of Manuel Castro that the land is vacant and grantable, dated at Monterey, 10th of May, and the title in form
dated at Los Angelos, 12th of June following, the latter signed
by Pio Pico, the Governor, and Jose Matias Moreno, Secretary
A certificate of the approval of the Departmental Assenibly
signed by the same Governor and Secretary, dated at Los Angelos, 14th of June, same year, was also filed with the papers,
together with the original grant which had been delivered to
the pefitionor, Padilla. This instrument is dated at Los Angelos, 12th of Jane, 1846, altdrc I to 12th of February of the same
year.
The genuineness of the signatures of the Governor and' Secretary to these evidences of title is proved by several witnesses,
and, among them, by Moreno himself, the Secretary The fact
upon the proofs cannot well be denied, and if there was nothing
else in the case affecting the integrity of this title, we could concur with the Court below in confirming it. But two objections
are taken to these papers, which, in our judgment, have not been
satisfactorily met or explained. The first is, that the certificate
of approval by the Departmental Assembly is a fabrication.
The records of that Assembly, which are in good condition,
prove the fact, and which is admitted in the brief of the counsel
for the claimants. It was also so held by the Court below
Now, the signatures of the Governor and Secretary to this cer
tificte are proved to be genuine with the same strengtli of
evid raee as they are fo the document of the formal title. Mo.

DECEMBER TERM; 1862.

403

United States vs. ,Galbraithet al.
reno'testifies with the same fulness to the signatures in the-one
case as m the other. The fabrication of tins certificate, therefore, is not the work of a stranger or of a party interested, but
of these functionaries themselves. As their signatures to it are
genuine, these persons are necessarily implicated m the fraud,
as the certificate could not have been. fabricated without their
participation. There is no escape from this conclusion. It
might have been met by proof that their signatures were forged.
This would have relieved them and the title from much of the
suspicion and doubtful character resting upon the title, though
not.entirely, as the use of fraudulent papers by the claimant in
support of a claim cannot but excite apprehension and caution.
But no attempt was made to prove that these signatures were
forged. On the contrary, every witness called and exannued m
respect to them testifies to their genuineness, and as we have
seen, Morena hinself, one of them.
This paper was regarded by the public authorities in California
as well asbhy the petitioners for a grant of a portion of the public lands as very important m the perfection of the title. The
grant in form by the Governor, m express terms, is made
"subject to the approval of the most excellent Departmental
Assembly" Such is the condition annexed, according to the
law of 1824, and the regulations of 1828. This Court -has dispensed with the condition in favor of these grants, winch wdre
in all other respects unobjectionable.
This paper, therefore, thus fabricated by Pico and Moreno
while engaged in making the grant of the land in question to
Padilla, cannot but connect itself closely with all the other documentary evidence of the title, especially that .portion of it to
which their names were essential, namely, the grant of the title
in form.
Of the documentary evidence of title, under the Mexican laws,
the approval of the Departmental Assembly was next in importance to the grant itself. If it must be admitted that these
functionaries have been guilty of fabricating one of the doculments to which their names are attached in making out the
grant, what assurance have we from the mere fact of the

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Galbraithet al.
genuineness of their signatures that they have not fabricated
the other. Dates of time and place afford no protection, as these
'ills
can be fixed to the document at ihe will of the parties.
certificate of approval bears date city of Los Angelos, 14th June,
1846. But these could be fixed to the paper, if fabricated, at
any time after it purports to bear date, as well as at the date
itself. So as it respects the time and place fixed to the document of the formal title, which purports to have been made at
the same place and on the 12th June, 1846. If fabricated, like the
certificate of approval, the date or place affords no security of iti
genuiness. We have no record to detect the fraud, if committed,
in respect to the title in form in this case as we have in many
of these grants. The usual memorandum is made at the foot of
the grant by Moreno, the Secretary, as follows: "A note has
-been taken of this dispatch of the Supreme Government in the
appropriate book."
Now, if a note of this grant had been found in the book of
records, the Tomada razon, as it is called, of this date, as is cer
tified by the Secretary, it would have been entitled to great
weight in relieving the title of much of the suspicion resting
upon it. The counsel for the claimants insist that the proof furrushed on this point, under the circumstances and condition of
the country at the tine, should be regarded as equivalent. The
Mexican records of these grants which were at the city of Los
Angelos in August, 1846, were placed by the Governor in the
keeping of one Vignes, in boxes, a short time before he fled from
that place, which was on the 10th of that month. These archives
came into the custody of Colonel Fremont, and were carried to
Sutter's fort, and kept there till 1847, when they were removed
to Monterey, and were placed in the ch.arge of Mr. Hartnell, who
made anindex of the espedientes found among the archives, but
not noted in any book. This grant to Padilla was found among
them and indexed by Hartnell. Now, the argument is, that it
must have been among the Mexican archives in the possession
of Pico at the time he placed them in the hands of Vignes when
he left the city of Los Angelos. This may be so. But, Pico.
Zkoreno, M. Castro, and Padilla, whose names are connected with

DECEMBER TERM, 1862.
Uniled States vs. Galbraith.etal.
the grant, were at the city of Los Angelos from the 22d of July
till the 10th of August, when they fled, within wnch time tins
grant could have been made and placed among the archives, and
during winch time the Governor had no-authority to make any
grant. This Government was in possession of the country as
early as the 7th of July, 1846. It will be seen, therefore, that
the fact of finding the espediente among the Mexican grants in
the hands of Hartnell affords no evidence that it must have been
made at its date. We agree, if it was not connected with the
other document of title, an admitted fabrication, committed, if we
believe the date, two days after the date of the grant, the above
facts would be entitled to consideration. But, as we have seen,
the fabrication of the grant was as practicable by these parties
as that of the certificate of approval consistently with the fact
of the- deposit of the espediente amofig the archives at Los
Angeloa before their removal to Sutter's fort.
It is worthy of remark in tins connection. -that the certificate
of approval and the title in form, both came from the hands of
the claimants, and of course both had been delivered by the
Governor and Secretary to Padilla, the grantee. They were
filed before the Board of Commissioners on the 28th March,
1853, and no explanation in respect to the certificate was given
or attempted, either before the Board or the Court below
The next objection to the documentary evidence of title is ihe
alteration of the date of the title in form from 12th June, 1846, to
the 12th February preceding,-the word February overthe word
June. The only attempt to explain this alteration is found in
the testimony of Danglada, a witness for the claimants. Ile
testified before the District Court that the papers were delivered
to him by Padilla in the month of December, 1850, for the pur
pose of making a sale of the lands. That at this time they had
been morgaged by Luco, the owner, to Padilla, and both were
interested in the sale. The witness acted as the agent of both.
On his examination in chief he testified that the date of the
paJer was not altered when it came into Ins hands, nor while in
them, and that the alteration must have been made afterwards.
But, on cross-examination. his attention was called to a deed

SUPREME COURT.
United States vs. Galbraithel al.

executed on the 1st March, 1852, by hun, as attorney for others,
of this tract, in which is recited the grant by Pico to Padilla as
of the date of 12th February, 1846, and he was asked to explain
this date, when he was obliged to admit that he might be mistaken. This is all the explanation that has been offered.
The case of the U S. vs. West's Heirs, (22 How., 315,) has been
referred to as an instance of the confirmation of a Mexican grant
which was subject to the imputation of a forgery in the alteration
of the title in form. The alteration consisted in enlarging the
grant of one and a half leagues to two and a half4 "un sitio to dos
sitios." The grant was made to West in 1840. He had been in
the possession and occupation of the ranch from 1838 till 1849,
when he died. Had made extensive improvements in buildings
and cultivation, among other improvements a grist-mill and
cultivation of two hundred acres of grain and vegetables, besides
a stock of two hundred horses and two thousand cattle. The
mase is not fully reported in the 22 How., and the above facts
are obtained from the original record. The attorney general
admitted the grant when made was genuine and honest, and
that the only objection to it was the alteration. The papers,
after the death of West, came into the possession of the widow
'%nd were necessarily entrusted to other hands for the purpose
of procuring a confirmation. There was no evidence tending to
prove that the alteration took place while in the hands of West,
and taking the admission of the government that the original
grant was genine and honest, in connection with the possession
-and improvements, this Court concurred with the Court below
in the confirmation of the league and a half. The features of
that case upon the evidence were strikingly different from the
present one.
There has been no possession or occupation in this case
deserving of notice in aid of the title, cr as evidence of any
,merit on the part oi the grantee. Indeed, the weight of it is
decidedly against a possession beyond that in common with the
owners of other ranches in the neighborilood. The grant was
'made, -according to its date, only twenty-fi 'e days before the
U-nited States tok possession of the country Padilla had a

DE O.MPER TBll, 1862.

407

Unit~ed Stes~s QjAkZrqgii et al.
previcus grant of the ranch Roblar de la Miseria, in the same
neighborhood, made on the 25th November, 1845, only a few
months before the application for the one in question. Some of
the witnesses confounded the occupation of this tract for that of
the Balsa de Tomales. Another difficulty in the way of yielding
our assent to .the integrity of this grant is, that as early as the
last of May or the first of June, 1846, Padilla was at Sonoma, or
in that neighborhood, some five hundred miles from Los Angelos
where tins grant purports to have been made. He was at the
head of a party of Californians in the disturbances which about
that time broke out between them and the American settlers,
and was charged withhaving participated in the murder of two
of them. He fled about the middle of the month to the 13outh
side of the bay of San IFrancisco and joined the forces of Castro;
the commander-m-chief of the Californians, and, according to
the evidence of Morena, the Secretary, he came down with Castro
and'met Governor Pico and party at Santa Marguent;%, which
was some one hundred and fifty miles below Monterey Castro
and Pico united their forces and passed on to Los Angelos,
where they arrived on the 21st or.22d July, and rempaned till
10th August, when they fled South. It is clear Padilla could
not have been at Los Angelos at the time the grant purports to
be dated, and ground for strong doubt as to his being at Monterey
May 14, at the date of the petition. All the parties to these
documents of title, Pico, Moreno, M. Castro, and Padilla, were
with the forces of Pico and General Castro at Los Angelos
during the nineteen or twenty days they remained at that place.
It was within their power to have made -this grant while thus
remaining together; and, as it is aamitted that the certificate of
approval of the Departmental Assembly was fabricated by two
of them, we cannot but distrust upon all the videnpie that the
espediente, including all the papers relatjg to the title. was
fabricated in the samie way and at t}ie same time.

