DAVIS v, SCHWARTZ.
Statement of the Case.

tion of novelty is by no means so clear as to authorize the
court to take the case from the jury, and that the court did
not err in submitting it to them.

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA, EASTERN DIVISION.
No. 75. Argued November 12, 13, 1894.-Delded January 7, 1895.

In a case referred to a master to report the evidence, the facts and his conclusions of law, there is a presumption of correctness as to his finding of
facts similar to that in the case of a finding by a referie, the special verdict of a jury, the findings of a Circuit Court in a case tried by the court
under Rev. Stat. ยง 469, or in an admiralty cause appealed to this court.
In Iowa, an insolvent debtor may make a mortgage or other conveyance of
his property to one or more of his creditors, with intent to give them
preference, and, in the absence of fraud, such mortgage or conveyance
will not operate as a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,
unless intended so to operate.
The fact that the property so conveyed was much in excess of the debts
secured by the conveyance is not necessarily indicative of fraud; but in
such cases the question of good faith is one of fact, and a mere error of
judgment will not be imputed as a fraud.
The different transfers assailed in this suit examined, and, in the light of
these rulings, held to be valid.
The different mortgages assailed in this suit were for several and separate
Interests; and the one to Kent not being of the amount requisite to give
this court jurisdiction, the appeal as to him is dismissed.

THIS suit was originally begun by a petition filed December 29, 1884, upon the equity side of the District Court of
Lee County, Iowa, by certain creditors, who had previously
attached the stock in trade at Fort Madison, Iowa, of one
John H. Schwartz, to set aside and vacate four chattel mort-

gages upon such property, and subject the same to the payment of their debts.

Upon the following day the suit was removed, upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

petition of the plaintiffs Samuel C. Davis & Co. of St. Louis
and E. S. Jaffray & Co. of New York, to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Southern District of Iowa, in
which court the record was filed January 9, 1885. Subsequently, and on January 17, a receiver was appointed, who
took possession and made ab inventory of the property, and
soon thereafter sold the same for the net sum, after deducting
costs and expenses, of" about $50,000, which was placed at
interest by order of the court, and, with the accumulated interest, amounts now to upwards of $66,000, held by the court to
abide its order herein.
To this petition of the attaching creditors separate answers
were interposed by Catharine Schwartz, John H. Hellman,
Frank B. Kent, and the German-American Bank, the four
mortgagees, wherein each defendant set up his mortgage and
notes; and as these answers also set up certain affirmative
facts, which could not be met by replication, the petitioners,
under leave of the court, filed an amended bill in equity, to
which not only Schwartz and the four mortgagees were made
parties, but a large number of other attaching creditors,
whose interests plaintiffs averred to be inferior and subject to
their own liens. Answers'were filed to this bill by John H.
Schwartz, and the four mortgagees. Several of the other
attaching creditors also interposed by answer and cross-bill.
One Katie Kraft also intervened, setting up a promissory note
for $5000, and claiming the benefit of a mortgage, not only
upon the stock of goods at Fort Madison, but upon another
stock at Chariton, Iowa. A supplemental bill was also filed
setting up judgments obtained by the plaintiffs in the actions'
at law in favor of Samuel C. Davis & Co. in the sum of
$14,358.20, and in favor of E. S.-Jaffray & Co. in the sum of
$6168.07. Subsequently, another amended bill was filed,
alleging that Catharine Schwartz and Frank B. Kent had
caused to be inserted in their respective mortgages a large
amount of property owned by Schwartz in Chariton, which
property they had seized and converted to their own use.
The prayer of the bill was that the mortgagees be required
to account for and pay into court the value of the property

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Statement of the Case.

so seized and converted, and that it be distributed under the
order of the court.
It appeared that this Chariton stock was sold out by the
mortgagees, and the proceeds, amounting to some $7000,
placed in the German-American Bank. Of this amount,
$4075 was paid over to Catharine Schwartz, and a certificate
of deposit for the sum of $2500 delivered to the bank for the
use of Kent.
A large amount of testimony was taken, and finally on
January 16, 1889, the case was referred, by consent of parties,
to a master "to hear said causes and report to this court his
findings of facts and conclusions of law."
The following is a summary of the most important facts:
John HI. Schwaktz, a citizen of Iowa, residing at Fort Madison,
had for some years been a retail dry goods and clothing merchant, carrying on his principal business at Fort Madison, with
an estimated stock of about $100,000, and with a branch store
at Chariton estimated at about $16,000, and another at Dallas
City, Illinois, estimated at $17,000. In addition to this, he
owned real estate in Fort Madison valued at $17,000, together
with notes and accounts, stock in a ferry company, and in a
building association, the value of which was somewhat uncertain. There were a mortgage and mechanic liens upon the real
estate to the amount of about $13,000, under which the property
was sold, and the values therein involved figure only indirectly
in this controversy.
At this time, December 29, 1884, Schwartz was indebted to
plaintiffs Samuel C. Davis & Co. to the amount of some $14,000,
and to E. S. Jaffray & Co. to the amount of some $6000, for
goods sold, and to a somewhat greater amount to various other
creditors in smaller sums. He was also indebted to one of his
mortgagees, John A. iHellman, his father-in-law, to the extent
of $22,180.37, evidenced by seven promissory notes of different
dates given from time to time during the eight previous years,
for money borrowed and put into the business; and was further indebted to the German-American Bank in the sum of
$8168.35; to Catharine Schwartz, his mother, in the sum of
$11,306.51, and to Frank B. Kent in the sum of $2665. His

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

total indebtedness appears then to have been about $84,000
and his assets about $144,000. Late in December, some $6000
of his indebtedness to Jaff ray & Co. falling due, he wrote to
his father-in-law for his endorsement upon a promissory note
for that amount. Hellman, desiring to investigate his son-inlaw's business before becoming responsible for a further amount,
went to Fort Madison, learned the amount of his debts and
assets, refused to advance any more money or sign the notes,
and advised Schwartz to send for the representatives of Davis
& Co. and Jaff ray & Co., tell them of his situation and intentions, and ask for an extension of time.
Schwartz accordingly telegraphed for these representatives,
who arrived at Fort Madison on Saturday morning, December
27, and held a conference with him at his house in the presence
of Hellman. Schwartz gave a full account of his debts and
assets, and asked for an extension of the Davis and Jaffray
claims. Schwartz and Hellman claim that they were given
to understand that the extension would be granted, and that
the representatives of these firms would return after dinner
with the extension notes prepared for Schwartz to sign.
There is some dispute as to what was done that day, but
instead of returning to Schwartz, it appears that the two
representatives prepared petitions for attachments upon his
stock, though the writs were not issued, apparently because
they were awaiting indemnity for the surety upon the attachment bond. It seems that Schwartz and Hellman became
suspicious at the failure of the representatives of the two
firms to return with the extension notes, and on Sunday
evening met at the residence of one of their counsel, Casey
& Casey, at which were present John H. Hellman, John
H{. Schwartz, H. D. McConn, cashier of the German-American
Bank, and Joseph B. Schwartz, a brother. After midnight
and before dawn of Monday morning the 29th, the four chattel mortgages in question were drawn up, taken to the bank,
acknowledged before a notary, and delivered to the recorder
of deeds and filed by him about 5 o'clock in the morning.
A demand was immediately made by the mortgagees upon
Schwartz for payment. The latter, expressing regret that he

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Statement of the Case.

was unable to comply with such demand, presented to each
one of the mortgagees a key to his store in Fort Madison,
where the largest part of the goods was. Whereupon the
inortgagees at once, and at a very early hour in the morning,
entered into possession, put up notices that the goods were
being sold under mortgage, and by the time the attachments
were levied, had made sales of about $70 worth of property.
As soon as it was known that the mortgages were made
and the mortgagees were in possession, Davis & Co. 'and
Jaffray & Co. sued out their writs of attachment, and at once
levied the same upon the stock of goods and upon the real
property owned by Schwartz in Fort Madisoni. Under indemnity bonds given by the attaching creditors, the sheriff, as
provided by the statutes of Iowa, continued in possession, the
mortgagees relinquishing their claim to the property and falling back upon the present suit to enforce their debts.
The master made his report on January 1, 1890, finding the
mortgage to Helhnan valid, and the others invalid, upon the
ground that they embraced notes or accounts .claimed to be
owing by Schwartz to the mortgagees, which were not in. fact
debts due to such mortgagees; that the amount so secured
had been fraudulently exaggerated for the purpose of defrauding the general creditors; and adjudging that, so far as such
mortgagees had received payment on their debts derived from
sales of the property mortgaged, they should account to the
attaching creditors, who had garnished such mortgagees,
according to the priority of such creditors, in effecting these
garnishments.
To this report exceptions were filed by both parties, and,
the case coming on to be heard before the court, certain
exceptions of the defendants were sustained, and a final decree
entered adjudging the several mortgages to be valid conveyances and first liens, and dismissing the bill so far as the same
attacked the validity and priority of such mortgages. The
decree then proceeded to find the several amounts due the
mortgagees, ordered that they should be paid out of the fund
ia court, and the surplus, over and above paying mortgage
debts'and receiver's costs and expenses, was ordered distrib-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

uted to the general creditors pro rata; that is, in proportion
to the amount shown to be due and owing said parties from
the insolvent debtor. It was further decreed that the mortgage defendants served as garnishees be discharged as such
garnishees, and as the fund in court had been loaned upon
bond and security to the Polk County Savings Bank of Des
Moines, that the clerk withdra w the money from such bank,
and make payment to the several parties adjudged to be entitled thereto. From this decree plaintiffs appealed to this court.
Mr. John W. Yoble, (with whom were -Mr.James C. Davis
and .Xfr. Bben Richards on the brief,) for appellants.
.M-r. David Sheean for appellees.
Miz. Jus-rm

BRoWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This is a contest between the attaching creditors and the
chattel mortgagees of the property of John H. Schwartz, an
insolvent debtor formerly engaged in business at Fort Madison
and Chariton in the State of Iowa, and at Dallas in the State
of Illinois. These two classes of creditors are in reality conipetitors in a race of diligence, the object of which was to obtain
a lien upon and possession of the property in question.
1. As the case was referred by the court to a master to
report, not the evidence merely, but the facts of the case, and
his conclusions of law thereon, we think that his finding, so
far as it involves questions of fact, is attended by a presumption of correctness similar to that in the case of a finding by
a referee, the special verdict of a jury, the findings of a Circuit
Court in a case tried by the court under Rev. Stat. ยง 649, or
in an admiralty cause appealed to this court. In neither of
these cases is the finding absolutely conclusive, as if there be
no testimony tending to support it; but so far as it depends
upon conflicting testimony, or upon the credibility of witnesses,
or so far as there is any testimony consistent with the finding,
it must be treated as unassailable. Wiscart v. D'Achy, 3

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Opinion of the. Court.

Dall. 321; Bond v. Brown, 12 How. 254; Graham v. Bayne,
18 How. 60, 62; Sforris v. Jackson, 9 Wall. 125; Insurance
Co. v. Folsom, 18 Wall. 237, 249; The Abbotsford, 98 U. S. 440.
The question of the conclusiveness of findings by a master
in chancery under a similar order was directly passed upon
in Kimberly v. Armz, 129 U. S. 512, in which a distinction is
drawn between the findings of *amastei under the usual order
to take and report testimony, and his findings when the case
is referred to him by consent of parties, as in this case.
While it was held that the court could not, of its motion, or
upon the request of one patry, abdicate its duty to determine
by its own judgment the controversy presented, and deVblve
that duty upon any of its officers, yet where the parties select
and agree upon a special tribunal for the settlement of their
controversy, there is no reason why the decision of such tribunal, with respect to the facts, should be treated as of less
weight than that of the court itself, where the parties expressly
waive a jury, or the law declares that the appellate court shall
act upon the finding of a subordinate court. "Its findings,"
said the court, "like those of an independent tribiinal, are to
be taken as presumptively correct, subject, indeed, to be
reviewed under the reservation contained in the consent andorder of the court, when there has been manifest error in the
consideration given to the evidence, or in the application of
the law, but not otherwise." As the reference in this case
was by consent to find the facts, we think the rule in Kimberly
v. Arms applies, and as there is nothing to show that the findings of fact were unsupported by the evidence, we think they
must be treated as conclusive. To same effect are Crawford
v. Neal, 144 U. S. 585, 596; Furrerv. Ferris,145 U. S. 132.
2. The real question in this case is, whether the mortgages,
which were awarded priority of payment by the decree of the
court below, were valid securities at the time of the Schwartz
failure, or were fraudulent and void as against his general
creditors. If they were in fact given bonafde and for a valuable consideration, it is difficult to see why they should not be
upheld, notwithstanding they were given for precedent debts,
were executed and acknowledged under an impending fear of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

attachment, at a most unusual hour of the day, and were immediately foreclosed by the inortgagees and possession taken of
the property. There are undoubtedly indicia of fraud connected with the transaction, but, after all, they are only items
of testimony bearing upon the main question, and if there be
nothing to impeach the consideration and the good faith of
the parties, the fact that the mortgagees intended to obtain a
preference over other creditors should not invalidate the mortgages, since the very object of giving such securities is to give
a preference to the creditors therein designated. Hutchinson
v. Watkins, 17 Iowa, 475; chase v. lMalters, 28 Iowa, 460;
Stewart v. l[ills County Bank, 76 Iowa, 571.
The fact that the assignee or the preferred creditor of an
insolvent debtor is a relative or intimate friend is doubtless
calculated to excite suspicion; yet in reality there is nothing
unnatural'in a dealer or trader who is in need of credit, or a
loan of money tQ carry on his business, first applying to his
relatives for such loans, and if the evidence be undisputed
that the money was advanced, the fact that the persons making the loan are relatives ought not to debar them from
receiving security. Their rights are neither increased nor
diminished by the fact of relationship. Magniac v. Thomson,
7 Pet. 348; Prewit v. Mlflon, 103 U. S. 22; Estes v. Gunter,
122 U. S. 450 ; Bean v. Patterson,122 U. S. 496 ; Garner v.
Second NAational Bank, 151 U. S. 420, 432; Aulman v. Aulman, 71 Iowa, 124; Tan Patten v. Thompson, (Iowa,) 34
N. W. Rep. 763; 1n, rl? Alexander, 37 Iowa, 454 ; Doyle v.
.McGuIre, 38 Iowa, 410. A general assignment to a relative
as trustee for the benefit of creditors is open to more suspicion, since such are more often selected as instruments for
creating a secret trust in favor of the assignor.
It is also true that the mortgages must have been given for
a valuable consideration, and must have been executed and
received in good faith and for an honest purpose. It has
been the accepted law ever since Twyne's Case, 3 Coke, 80,
that good faith as well as a valuable consideration is neces.
sary to support a conveyance as against creditors. In that
case Pierce, being indebted to Twyne in 400 pounds, was

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

sued by a third party for 200 pounds. Pending such suit he
conveyed all his property to Twyne in consideration of his
debt, but continued in possession, sold certain sheep and set
his mark on others. It was resolved to be a fraudulent gift,
though the deed declared that it was made bona fde. Most
of the cases illustrative of this doctrine, however, have been
like that of Twyne, wherein a debtor, knowing that an execution was to be taken out against him, had sold his property to
a vendee having knowledge of the facts, for the express purpose of avoiding a levy, or receiving a consideration which
could not be reached by execution. In such cases the fact
that he receives a good consideration will not validate the
transaction, unless at least the creditor has obtained the benefit of the consideration. A like principle applies where a
mortgage is given and withheld from record in order to give
the mortgagor a fictitious credit. Cadogan v. Kennett, Cowp.
432; Blennerhassettv. Sherman, 105 U. S. 100, 117; Sayre v.
Fredericks,1 0. E. Green, (16 N. J. E.q.,) 205; Sweet v. W7 9ight,
57 Iowa, 510, 514; 1 Story's Eq. Juris. ยง 353; Klein v.
Hofheimer, 132 U. S. 367; Holt v. Creamer, 34 N. J. Eq.
(7 Stewart) 181; Clements v. Moore, 6 Wall. 299; Wickham
v. Miller, 12 Johns. 320; Pulliam v. Newberry, 41 Alabama,
168; Robinson v. HTolt, 39 N. H. 557.
In Twyne's case, the facts that the sale was accompanied
by a secret trust in favor of the debtor, and that the vendor
remained in possession, showed that it was not intended ad a
bon, fide preference to the creditor, but merely as a trick to
keep the property away from the other creditors.
But where a person, being lawfully indebted to several
creditors, makes a mortgage or other conveyance to one for
the open and avowed purpose of preferring him, then in the
absence of a law of the forum prohibiting preferences, such
mortgage or conveyance is valid, though it may operate to
bar other creditors from obtaining satisfaction of their debts.
A mortgage which may have the effect of hindering other
creditors is not necessarily unlawful, though a mortgage given
to defraud them is always so. Stewart v. Dunham, 115
U. S. 61; Estes v. Gunter, 122 U. S. 450; Smith v. Craft, 123

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

U. S. 436; Hiuntley v. 'ingman, 152 _U. S. 527; Soutkeg'n
WhVite Lead Co. v. Haas,73 Iowa, 399, and cases cited.
In this case the preferred creditors receive no more than
they are entitled by law to have, and the fact that they know
that other creditors will suffer by their preference does not
show a want of good faith. The effect of every mortgage to
a creditor as security for the payment of a preexisting debt is
to withdraw the value of the property covered by the security
from the assets of the debtor, which would otherwise be available in satisfaction 'of his other debts. But unless a general
bankrupt law, or a law of the particular State makes the preference illegal, it is difficult to see why mortgages given under
the circumstances that these were given should be held to be
invalid. The fact that they were given at night, under the
instant apprehension of legal proceedings, and that their execution was followed by an immediate delivery-of possession,
only indicates that the insolvent debtor wished, in the selection
of his creditors, to prefer his own friends, rather than the
plaintiffs, who would have secured to themselves the position
of preferred creditors by suing out attachments and levying
upon his property. In short, they were attempting to do
what the mortgagees themselves successfully carried out. The
equities of the latter are at least equal to those of the plaintiffs.
We do not understand it to have ever been doubted that a
debtor may openly prefer one creditor to the rest, and may
transfer property to him or give him security even after others
have begun their actibns. ilolbird v. Anderson, 5 T. kL 235.
In that case it was said by Lord lKenyon, p. 238: ""The words
of the statute, 13 Eliz., do not apply to this case, for this
warrant of attorney was given on a good consideration; and
the other words in the act, 'lbona fide,' only apply to those
cases where possession is not delivered, or where it is merely
colorable."
See also Etwick v. Caillaud,5 T. R. 420.
The fact that the execution of the mortgages was immediately followed by a delivery of possession of the property.
mortgaged, so far from being a badge of fraud, has rather a
contrary tendency, and was evidently resorted to to avoid an
implication of fraud from the retention of possession by the

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

mortgagor. A prompt and vigorous enforcement of an honest
debt is by no means indicative of fraud, and it does not lie in
the mouth of the plaintiffs, who were themselves taking steps
in the same direction as the mortgagees, to cavil at their
success.

It is also true that, by the law of Iowa respecting assignments for the benefit of credit6rs, preferences are forbidden;
but the authorities in that State hold that a sale or mortgage
to pay or secure the payment of preexisting bona fide debts
is not to be considered an assignment within the statute,
even when made in contemplation of insolvency, or when the
debtor, by the mortgage, intends to hinder other creditors who
are about to obtain liens upon his property, unless, at least, the
mortgage was intended to operate, not as a security, but as a
general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or is made in
such connection with a general assignment as to constitute
both but one and the same transaction. Farwell v. Howard,
26 Iowa, 381 ; Southern White Lead Co. v. Haas,73 Iowa, 399.;
Gage v. Parry,69 Iowa, 605; Kohn v. Clement, 58 Iowa, 589;
Aulman v. Aulman, 71 Iowa, 124.
It is sometimes difficult to determine whether a particular
instrument is a mortgage or an assignment with preferQnces.
The test most frequently applied is whether the conveyance is
of all the property of the debtor, and is made to a trustee for
the benefit of certain creditors. In such cases it is usually held
to be an assignment, but if the conveyance be made directly
to the creditor himself, it is ordinarily treated as a chattel
mortgage. Jones on Chattel Mortgages, ยง 352 a; Burrill on
Assignments, p. 11.
We do not regard the fact that the property conveyed was
nominally more than double in value to the amount of debts
secured thereby to be in itself indicative of fraud, since the
property conveyed was a stock of goods of somewhat uncertain
value, and when sold realized but little more than was necessary
to pay off the mortgages. Indeed, this court held directly in
Downs v. Kissam, 10 How. 102, 108, that it was not evell a
badge of fraud that a mortgage was made to cover more
property than would secure the debt due.
VOL. CLV-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The fact that goods were spirited away from the store on
Sunday night would undoubtedly assume a serious importance
were it shown to have been done directly or indirectly for the
benefit of Schwartz; but the goods seem-to have been taken
away in asleigh by some of the clerks, who took this method
of paying themselves for the amounts due them for wages,
aggregating $282.77. It appears that they took no more than
sufficient to reimburse themselves, and that they were charged
upon the books with the goods taken at cost price. Although,
of course, the'proceeding was irregular, there is no evidence to
connect either Schwartz or the mortgagees with it, and the
clerks did no more for themselves than Schwartz would have
been at liberty to do for them if he had been present, viz., to
prefer them to the amount of the wages severally due them.
The case, then, reduces itself to the simple question whether
the mortgages were given for bona fde existing debts to the
amount expressed upon their faces, and this involves an inquiry
into the consideration of each mortgage separately.
_
3. So far as regards the mortgage to John Hl. Hellman, which
covered only the stock at Fort Madison and the book accounts,
both the master to whom the case was referred and the court,
agreed in holding it to be valid. In this connection the
master, found Schwartz to be indebted to UEellman, his wife's
father, as evidenced by his notes, for money borrowed, amounting with interest to $22,180.37; that Hellman before leaving Galena had prepared memoranda of these notes, which
amounted upon their face to $20,380.98, together with another
note for. $1000, payable to his son John V. Hellman, in consideration of money loaned to Schwartz. This note had been
assigned by the payee to his wife Wenona, but, being afraid
.that Schwartz was in a bad way financially, it was agreed between the father and son that the former should purchase the
note, which was then in his safe; that Wenona should endorse
it; that the father should be charged with it on his books, and
the son, who was then owing the father to that amount or
more, should be credited therewith. But the entry upon the
books was not made until after John H. Hellman returned
from Fort Madison, and was then entered as of December 29.

DAVIS v. SCHVARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

As the note really belonged to John H. Hellman, and was
transferred to him before heleft Galena, though the entry had
not yet been made, there can be no just criticism upon his
including it in his mortgage. Even if the purchase had not
been made, there is nothing improbable in John V. Hellman's
desiring that his wife's note should be secured, and if he suspected, as he doubtless did, that Schwartz was likely to fail,
he would naturally put the note in his father's hands to be
secured with the much larger amount due his father; and if
the latter caused itin good faith to bb included in his mortgage,
supposing it to be lawful to do so, the mortgage would not
thereby be invalidated.
4. The mortgage to the German-American Bank, which covered not only the stock at Fort Madison, but that at Chariton,
and the book accounts at both places, was given on its face to
secure two notes of $5000 and $500 made to the bank, as well
as a note for $1500 made to .11. Cattermole, president of the
bank, and assigned to the bank, together with a note of $1000
to Pauline Schwartz, also assigned to the bank, -these notes
aggregating $8000. This mortgage was found by the master
to be fraudulent, as against the general creditors, by reason of
the inclusion of the Cattermole and Schwartz notes.
So far as concerns the Cattermole note, the finding is that
McConn, the cashier of the bank, who acted for it at the Sunday evening meeting at Schwartz's house, demanded not only
security for the bank, but for Cattermole himself. As Cattermole was not present, no transfer of the note could have then
been made by him, and there is no pretence that it was then
transferred. The note was not produced at the time, and
McConn knew that there was no entry upon the books of the
bank to show that the bank owned the note. It appears that the
bank afterwards became the owner of the note by giving therefor its own note in exchange, although it is not certain when this
took place, since the books of the bank show no entry whatever
of the transaction, either to charge the bank with the liability
or to credit it with the Cattermole note as an asset. But putting a construction upon this transaction most favorable to the
plaintiffs, it only appears that the bank did not actually own

OCTOBER TER'A, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the note at the time the mortgage was given. The Cattermole
note had been given by Schwartz for money loaned, and had
been in possession of the bank for two and a half months before
the failure. The money had been loaned to Schwartz under a
promise by him to give a real estate mortgage, and McConn,
who was a cousin of Cattermole, upon the failure of Schwartz to
give the mortgage, had agreed to take the note off of his hands.
The mortgage of $1000 to Pauline Schwartz was sold and
delivered by John H. Schwartz to McConn for about two-thirds
its face value and interest. It seems that the money represented by this note had been sent, in 1879, in the form of a
draft, by Hellman to his daughter Pauline,, who was the wife
of John IH.Schwartz, as a Christmas present. Schwartz appears to have used the money himself, and given his nqte
therefor, dated December 27, 1879. When the mortgage was
given, he turned it over to the bank for its face value upon his
wife's request that he should realize upon it for her. No entry
was made upon the books of the bank because, as McConn explained, "it was a small matter, and we thought it would be
adjusted in a few days, and we did not want any more of John
H. Schwartz's matters mixed up." The money to pay for the
note was taken from an envelope in the bank by ]vicConn.
This was undoubtedly outside of the usual course of banking
business and was open to some suspicion; but there is nothing
to impeach the consideration for which the note is said to have
been given, and nothing but the somewhat unusual nature of
the transaction to contradict McConn's story with reference to
this purchase by the bank.
Of both these notes it may be said that whether they were
actually owned by the bank or not, there is nothing to indicate that they were not just debts of John H. Schwartz. It
would also seem that McConnas inclusion of these notes in the
mortgage to the bank was made in good faith, supposing that
he had the right to cover them by the same security he was
taking in favor of the bank. While the fact that a mortgage
is given for a larger amount than is due, is doubtless a suspicious circumstance, raising a presumption of fraud, and may,
under certain circumstances, avoid the whole mortgage, ( Wood

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Scott, 55 Iowa, 114; Lombard v. Dows, 66 Iowa, 243; Taylor
v. T endling, 66 Iowa, 562; afcVichols v. Rubeman, 13 Mo.
App. 515 ; Bolt v. Creamer, 34 N. J. Eq. (7 Stewart) 181;
Jleintze v. Bentley, 31 N. J. Eq. (7 Stewart) 562;. -Headv.
Combs, 19 N. J. Eq. (4 C. E. Green) 112,) it will only have this
effect when given wilfully, in connivance with the mortgagee,
and with an actual design to impose upon and defraud the
general creditors.
In all such cases the question of good faith is one of fact, and
a mere error of judgment will not be imputed as a fraud. The
fact that the debt so -included was a bonafde debt, and that
the act of the mortgagee in so including it was subsequently
affirmed by the creditors interested, will be strong evidence
that no actual fraud was intended. Shirras v. Caig, 7 Cranch,
34; Lombard v. Bows, 66 Iowa, 243; Davenport v. Cummings,
15 Iowa, 219; .Miller v. Lockwood, 32 N. Y. 293; Frost v.
Warren, 42 N. Y. 204; Gof v. Rogers, 71 Indiana, 459, 461;
Barkow v. Sanger, 47 Wisconsin, 500, 505; Van Patten v.
Thompson, (Iowa,) 34: N. W. Rep. 763.
5. The mortgage to Catharine Schwartz was given to secure
one note for $2296.35; another for $500; a note for $5000, payable to Katie Kraft, Schwartz's sister, upon which Catharine
Schwartz was surety; a note for $318, payable to A. S. Gage
& Co., upon which Catharine was surety, and which had been
paid by her; and also the sum of $2382.97 due upon an open
account for goods and merchandise, and cash advanced and
owing by John H. Schwartz. This mortgage is assailed as
fraudulent, upon the ground that the last item consisted of
merchandise and .cash advanced to John H. Schwartz from
another store in Fort Madison, the business of which was
solely conducted by Joseph C. Schwartz in the name of his
mother, Catharine.. It seems that when the business began she
loaned to Joseph $8000, which composed the capital of -the
concern, which loan was secured by note. He bought and sold
the goods, paying all the bills, and not accounting to her, save
to pay the interest due upon the note, and took the profits to
himself. ,It thus appears that the debt really belonged to
Joseph C. Schwartz and not to Catharine, although the three

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

parties swore that it was due to her as the nominal proprietor
of the store. It does, however, appeat conclusively that Joseph
was indebted to his mother in a sum largely in excess of the
account; that the consideration of the account was goods
bought, nominally, at least, of Oatharine, and that she was
responsible to the creditors of that establishment. As the
accounts were kept in her name, she had the legal title to the
account, and Joseph only an equity in them. But as, in any
event, the debt was bonac fde, and; under the circumstances,
must be presumed to have been included in the mortgage with
the consent of Joseph, the mortgage ought not to be held void
on that account. It was a debt honestly owing by John H.
Schwartz; was intended to be included in his mortgage, and
he had as much right to secure his brother Joseph as his
mother Catharine. His creditors were not placed in any worse
position by reason of the fact that the security was not given
directly to Joseph. The form in which the security should be
given was really a question between the parties themselves,
and did not in any way concern the plaintiffs. So, also, it is
quite immaterial whether the Katie Kraft note was originally
made to her, or to her husband Joseph, and by him endorsed
to her. There is very little, if anything, to indicate that it did
not represent a bonajide debt, or that Catharine Schwartz, the
mortgagee, was not held for its payment. In addition to this,
however, Mrs. Kraft, herself, filed an intervening petition,
claiming the amount of the note and the benefit of the mortgage to Catharine Schwartz, and a separate decree wap made
in her favor.
Upon the whole, we think' the court below was correct in
sustaining this mortgage.
6. The mortgage to Frank B. Kent covered the property
both at Fort Madison and Chariton, and was given to secure
the payment of a note for $2500, executed by Schwartz,
March 1, 1884, and payable one year after date. His decree
was for $3601.42.
In this connection a motion was made by Kent to dismiss
the appeal from the allowance of his claim, upon the ground
that the requisite amount is not involved to give jurisdiction

DAVIS v. SCHWARTZ.
Opinion of the Court.

to this court. We think this motion should be granted. It
is true, the four mortgagees were made joint defendants to
the bill, but in reality their interests were several. The
mortgages were separate, and a several and distinct decree
was made in favor of each for the payment of his claim.
_
separate bill would have lain against each mortgagee, but as
certain of the questions involved were common to all the
mortgages, they were, as matter of convenience, all made
parties to the same bill. The rulings -of this court are uniform and consistent to the effect that, where several plaintiffs
claim under the same- title, and the determination of the cause
necessarily involves the validity of that title, this court has
jurisdiction, though the individual claims do none of them
exceed the requisite amount, but when the matters in dispute
are separate and distinct, and are joined in one suit for convenience or economy, the case will be dismissed as to claims
not exceeding $5000.
chwed v. Smith, 106 U. S. 188; Hawley v. Fairbanks,108 U. S. 54:3; Stewart v. Dunham, 115 U. S.
61; Estes v. Gunter, 121 U. S. 183; Gibson v. Shufeldt, 122
U. S. 27; hlenderson v. Carbondale Coal, &c. Co., 140 U. S.
25; .New Orleans Pacific Railway v. Parker, 143 U. S. 42;
Chapman v. Iandley, 151 U. S. 443.
As it is clear in this case that the validity of each mortgage
depended, upon its own consideration, independent of the
others, and the decree in favor of each mortgagee was several
and distinct, the motion to dismiss must be granted.
And as we agree that there was no error in the court below
holding the other mortgages to be valid securities, and entitled
to preference as against the attaching creditors,
The appeal as to
ent must be dismissed, and as to the
others the decree of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

