OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Syllabus.

So far as respects the complaint that the court stated part
of the testimony on a certain point without stating all, we
know of no rule that compels a court to recapitulate all the
items of the evidence, nor even all bearing upon a single
question. There was no intimation that all the testimony
bearing upon any particular point was stated. On the contrary, the plain declaration was that there was other testimony
than that mentioned, and the jury were admonished to give
that not mentioned as full and careful consideration as that
mentioned.
So far as the record discloses, the charge of the court and
its rulings on the trial were eminently fair and considerate of
the rights of the defendant. In none of the matters referred
to do we find any error, and therefore, the judgment is
4/lrned.

ERHARDT v. SCHIROEDER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 31.

Argued January 24, 25, 1894. -Decided

November 12, 1894.

It is a general rule that provisions in statutes imposing taxation, though
not in terms mandatory, are to be regarded as such if necessary for the
substantial protection of the taxpayer.

The customs laws, however, give to the complaining importer an ample
remedy, only putting him to the inconvenience of seeking it in a legal

tribunal.
In an action to recover duties alleged to have been illegally exacted, the
burden is on the importer to overcome the presumption of a legal collection by proof that their exaction was unlawful.
Although the appraisement of goods by customs officers is not ordinarily

open to judicial review, that rule does not apply when the value is determined by a classification made by the officer.
The provision in Schedule F, of the act of March 3, 1883, c. 121, 22 Stat.
488, 503, imposing a duty upon leaf tobacco, evidently requires that 85
per cent of half leaves are to be of the requisite size and necessary fine-

ness of texture for wrappers, or, in other words, that each of 85 half

ERHARDT v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

leaves out of 100 half leaves must contain a portion sufficiently fine in
texture, of the requisite size to make at least one wrapper.
The further provision in that sthedule, " of which more than 100 leaves are
required to weigh a pound," refers to whole leaves, in their natural state.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Whitney for plaintiff in
error.
-MA'. Edlwin B. Smith, (with whom was .Mr. Williamr B. Hill
on the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SIIIR.s delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error commenced this action in the Superior Court of the city of New York on May 6, 1889, against
Joel B. Erhardt, collector .of the port of New York, to recover
the sum of $32,0410.60, which amount they alleged had been
unlawfully exacted from them by that officer as customs duties
on leaf tobacco. The case was removed by certiorariinto the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of New York, in which court the complaint was filed, and the
case proceeded to trial before the court and a jury.
As appears by the bill of exceptions, the defendants in error,
partners as Schroeder & Bon, on November 5, 1888, imported
from Amsterdam and entered at. the port of New York, for
warehouse, 429 Vales of leaf tobacco, described in the invoice
as Sumatra tobacco. The protest filed in this case related to
398 of those bales, but on the trial a recovery was abandoned
of duties paid on such bales of the invoice as were withdrawn
before May 6, 1889,'for the reason that those duties had been
paid to the predecessor in office of the defendant.
On that day, as the bill of exceptions further shows, the
importers withdrew from warehouse five bales of the tobacco,
upon one of which they paid duty'at the rate of 75 cents a
pound on 125 pounds of the tobacco in the bale, and 35 cents
a pound upon 54: pounds thereof, and upon four of which bales
they paid a duty of 75 cents a pound. On the following' day

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

they withdrew five more bales, upon all of which they paid
duty at the rate of 75 cents a pound.
The importers, contending that they should have been compelled to pay but 35 cents a pound on all of the ten bales,
-asserted that the amount constituting the difference between
duties at that rate and at the rate of 75 cents a pound had
been exacted from them unlawfully by Erhardt, and that
amount, with interest, or $708.12, was sought on the trial to
be recovered.
The evidence introduced by the importers showed that
within ten days after the liquidation of their warehouse entry
they had filed with the collector a protest against his decision,
assessment, and liquidation of the duties; that within thirty
days from the liquidation of the entry they had duly appealed
to the Secretary of the Treasury, and that that officer having
decided against them on appeal, they had within ninety days
after his decision brought suit to recover the duties alleged to
have been erroneously exacted.
It appeared from the invoice and the testimony of the examiner of tobacco at the appraisers' stores, called as a witness
for the importers, that upon the entry of the tobacco the collector had designated five of the 429 bales for examination at
the public stores; that subsequently, upon the request of the
appraiser, twenty-five additional bales and no more had been
sent to the public stores for examination; that of the plantation lots, about thirteen in number, of which the invoice was
composed, four plantation lots, containing respectively ten,
twenty-seven, twenty, and ten bales, were represented in the
ten bales in controversy; two of these four lots being represented by four bales from each, and two of the four lots by
one bale from each; that among the thirty bales sent to the
public stores-was one bale from each of the said four plantation lots; that one of the bales there examined was, and that
the other three were not, among the ten bales in controversy;
and that this one bale belonged to one of the plantation lots
containing ten bales, and was the bale upon which the importer paid duty at the rate of 75 cents a pound upon 125pounds thereof and 35 cents a pound upon 54 pounds thereof.

ERHARDT v. ScHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

Other testimony was introduced to show the actual character
of the tobacco.
On the trial, after all the testimony on both sides had been
introduced, the collector moved the court to direct a verdict
in his favor on the ground that the importers had not established facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, which
motion was denied. The collector excepted to this ruling,
and asked to be allowed to go to the jury generally upon the
issues of the case, and upon the court's refusal of this request
the collector asked that the case might go to the jury upon
the question whether there had been one package examined
of the bales in controversy, claiming that although there was
not one bale in ten of the entire invoice sent to the public
stores, yet, as there were only ten bales in question, representing four plantation lots, and as four bales representing those
ten bales had been actually examined at the public stores,
there was a sufficient compliance with the statute. The court
refused to submit this question to the jury, to which refusal
the collector excepted. The importers then moved for the
direction of a verdict in their favor, and the court granted the
motion and directed a verdict for them for the sum of $708.12,
to which action of the court the collector excepted. Judgment in favor of the importers, for the said amount, was duly
entered on June 20, 1890, and subsequently the collector
brought the case to this court by a writ of error.
The protest filed by the importers contained, among other
things, an allegation that there had been no legal appraisal of
the tobacco, for the reason that the provisions of section 2939
of the Revised Statutes had not been complied with. That
section is as follows :
"The collector of the port of New York shall not, under
any circumstances, direct to be sent for examination and
appraisement less than one package of every invoice, and one
package at least out of every ten packages of merchandise
and a greater number should he, or the appraiser, or any
assistant appraiser, deem it necessary. When the Secretary
of the Treasury, however, from the character and description
of the merchandise, may be of the opinion that the examina-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of a less proportion of packages will amply protect the
revenue, he may, by special regulation, direct a less number

of packages to be examined."
It seems, from the nature of a part of the evidence introduced on the trial, that the importers contended in the court
below that the effect of the examination by the customs officers
of less than one bale in ten of the invoice had the effect of
invalidating the assessment of the.higher tax upon the tobacco,
provided for in paragraph 246 of the tariff act of 1883, and
made it dutiable at the lower rate, as prescribed in paragraph
247 of that act.
The saime ground of contention is presented in this court,
the collector asserting that the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 2939
are in the nature of instructions to the officers of the customs,
intended solely for the protection of the revenue, and, therefore, that no benefit from a violation of the statute could be
taken by an importer. The importers insist, on the other
hand, that inasmuch as the examination may-have the effect
of fixing a higher duty upon a given invoice of tobacco than
that collectible upon leaf tobacco of the kind more extensively
imported, the importer might be injured if the characteristics
of the tobacco necessary to justify the exaction of the higher
tax were determined by an examination different from that
prescribed by § 2939, which enactment, therefore, they believe
to be intended as well for the protection of the importer as
the government, and hence mandatory. Collateral to the
argument upon this point is the discussion by the parties as
to whether the incident of the actual examination in this case
of one of the ten bales- in controversy, and the examination of
one bale from each of four plantation lots represented by the
ten bales, was equivalent to a substantial compliance with the
statute.
Whether a statute is mandatory or directory is frequently
a question of a great deal of importance to taxpayers, for the
reason that errors in taxation are often susceptible of correction only by pointing to the non-observance of some law
which, strictly followed by an officer, might have prevented
the errors complained of. The acts of assessors, for instance,

ERHARDT v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

in matters relating to general municipal and state taxation
are, if legally performed, usually conclusive upon the taxpayer, unless some means of relief has been provided by
the legislature, and often this relief is narrow. Very rarely,
if ever, is there power in the judiciary to enter into all the
questions affecting the legality of a charge for taxes, and therefore, in general, a statute, even though not in express terms
mandatory, is treated as being so if its literal observance
might afford substantial protection to the party complaining,
and-a failure of such observance by an officer is considered to
render his act void. Frenchv. Edwards, 13 Wall. 506, 511.
In the case of customs duties, however, a party dissatisfied
with the classification of imports may apply to the courts to
have examined and reviewed everything involving the legality
of the demand which has been made upon him by a collector,
and statutes containing directions to government officials, as
to the manner in which they shall become informed of the
dutiable character of merchandise, afford importers an altogether different kind of protection from that just mentioned.
At most,,a neglect of such provisions operates to no greater
disadvantage to a party than' to subject him to the necessity
of bringing an action which he nmight not have felt impelled
to bring if the tax had been ascertained in the. manner prescribed. The unlawful demand of the duty does not conclude
his rights, but, at the most, merely lays upon him, the inconvenience.of going before a tribunal in which those rights will
be declared.
An examination of one package in ten of the merchandise
might have shown to the satisfaction of the collector that the
importation was of the character the importer claimed it to
be; the examination of one package in fourteen may have
given the collector a -different impression to the- disadvantage
of the importer. But the proceedings do not necessarily end
with the collector's decision, and the importer's rights are not
w
finally fixed until the character of the goods has been found
by a court.
The protection of the convenience only of a taxpayer is not
of such a vital nature as to authorize a court to treat a statute
VOL. CLV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

primarily directed to public officers for their guidance, and
the substantial protection of the government, as mandatory,

and to consider official acts not in strict conformity with the
statute as void. The protection must be substantial, and must
be intended as a guard of rights or property. Cooley on Taxation, 215, 216.
In this view, it is apparent that the usual presumption of a
legal collection is not changed by the circumstances of this
case, and that the burden is upon the importer of overcoming
this presumption by proof that the exaction of the duties was
unlawful.
If the dutiable character of the goods in the present case
were to be determined by value, the question of the effect of
§ 2939 might be of consequence to the importers, since in
that event the value fixed by the appraisers, under section
2930 Rev. Stat., relating to appeals from appraisements, would
be final, unless the appraisement were in some respect unlawful. The question of the value of the goods could not be raised
in an action against the collector, and an attack upon the
legality of the appraisement, for the purpose of having it declared illegal, and the goods therefore declared dutiable at the
value stated in the invoice, would be the only means of redress
by a court for an illegal exaction of duties based upon an
erroneous valuation. The duty chargeable upon leaf tobacco
was not fixed with reference to its value, but to certain prescribed characteristics of size, fineness of textum, and weight.

It seems to have been the practice, under instructions issued
by the Secretary of the Treasurv, for the appraiser, in addition
to ascertaining the value of goods, to ascertain the dutiable
qualities of tobacco imported, and this act of the appraiser
seems usually to be denominated -an appraisement. At least,
that word is so used by counsel on both sides of this case.
Unless, however, this act of the appraiser. is an appraisement
in the sense of being an ascertainment of. value, it would not
be just to an importer to regard it as an appraisement in this
kind of a case.
Section 3011 Rev. Stat. provided that any person who had
made payment under protest, and in order to obtain possession

ERIIARDT v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

of merchandise imported for him, to any collector, or person
acting as collector, of any money as duties, when such amount
of duties was not, or was not wholly, authorized by law, might
maintain an action in the nature of an action at law, which
should be triable by jury to ascertain the validity of such
demand and payment of duties, and to recover back any
excess so paid. This statute is general in its terms, and is
subject to but one qualification, namely, that in the action
provided for no question can be raised as to the value of the
merchandise, except to show that because of some illegality
in the appraisement the value fixed by the appraiser should
not be taken as the basis of the duties, but that the duties
should therefore be fixed by the invoice.
In the case of lfilton v. Merritt, 110 II. S. 97, 106, Mr. Justice Woods said, in delivering the opinion of the court:
"Considering the acts of Congress as establishing a system,
and giving force to all the sections, its plain and obvious meaning is that the apyraisement of the customs officers, shall be
final, but all other questions relative to the rate and amount of
duties may, after the importer has taken the prescribed steps,
be reviewed in an action at law to recover duties unlawfully
exacted. Questions frequently arise whether an enumerated
article belongs to one section or another.

.

.

.

In deter-

mining the rate and amount of duties the value of the merchandise is one factor, the question what schedule it properly
falls under is another.

.

.

.

Questions relating to the

classification of imports and consequently to the rate and
amount of duty are open to review in an action at law."
A common instance of the ecognition of the right of a
party to review, in an action at law, a question of the classification of imports is to be found in cases where there is no dispute as to the character of the merchandise, but the contest
is upon the name properly applicable to it, in the meaning of
a statute. Many such cases are cited in Cadwaladerv. Zek,
151 'U.S. 171, 176, which case is itself a similar instance. In
such controversies the question to be answered is what the
article is. The question is the same where there is no dispute
over terms, but as to the qualities or characteristics necessary

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

to bring the article within the statutory description. In either
case the matter to be decided is the portion of the act under
which the article properly falls, and in all cases, eliminating
only the question of the value of the merchandise, the classification may be reviewed in an action at law.
We are thus brought to the question of the actual character
of the tobacco, with reference to the paragraph under which
itwas properly dutiable. This question is raised by the following allegation of the protest: "We protest against the
estimate of quality of the different grades of said tobacco as
made by the appraiser, and the assessment of 75 cents per
pound as made by you as unlawful and as not in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule F of the act of March 3, 1883,
c. 121, 22 Stat. 488, 503, claiming said tobacco to be dutiable
under said provision at only 35 cents per pound because
eighty-five per cent of said tobacco is not of the requisite size
and of the necessary fineness to be suitable for wrappers, and
less than one hundred leaves are requited to weigh a pound."
The provisions of Schedule F of the tariff act of 1883, under
which the duties in this case were exacted, were as follows:
"[246.] Leaf tobacco of which eighty-five per cent is of
the requisite size and of the necessary fineness of texture to be
suitable for wrappers, and of which more than one hundred
leaves are required to weigh a pound, if not stemmed, seventyfive cents per pound; if stemmed, one dollar per pound.
"[ 247.] All other tobacco in leaf, unmanufactured and not
stemmed, thirty-five cents per pound."
Diverse views were entertained by the parties concerning
the meaning of paragraph [246], the most important of which
had reference to the question whether the bale was to be
treated as the unit to which the percentage test was to be
applied, or whether the characteristics of the tobacco were
to be ascertained by examining a number of representative
hands, (which are small bundles of leaves fastened together,)
and if certain of the examined hands should be found to be
dutiable at one rate and the others at a different, the bale
should be assumed to contain tobacco of two different grades,
and the duties laid accordingly.

ERHARDT v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

The proper answer to this question seems to depend upon
the particular circumstances of a given case. It appears in
the testimony 'n both sides of this case that leaf tobacco is
dividefl into twd classes, knowii as the wrapper class and the
filler class. Whether or not a bale of tobacco is of uniform
character seems to be easily ascertained. A dealer in leaf
tobacco, one of the witnesses for the collector, said: "We
jnever draw [from a bale] le§s than four hands, and it may run
four hands, six hands, eight hands, or ten hands, according as
we may find whether the bale has been packed honestly, as
we term it, or whether it has been packed mixed. If the first
four hands drawn should be entirely uniform, we probably
would, not draw any more, and in any event we would be
hardly likely to draw more than ten hands."
If, then, a bale, or other separate and concrete quantity of
leaf tobacco, contained only leaves of such uniformity of
character as to be, in their collective form, of one class, the
bale, or other separate collection, would be the unit contemplated in the percentage and weight tests of paragraph [246].
On the other hand, if the bale contained tobacco of two
classes, the unit would be the ascertained quantity of either
class. The leaf tobacco meant by paragraph [246] is, apparently, a collection of leaves, or half-leaves, having the similarity caused by the circumstances of their having grown in
soil of the same general character, in the same climate, and
under the same general conditions of moisture or dryness, and
by such selection or assortment as it may be customary to
make on the plantation; yet having the differences which,
despite the similarity of habitt and environment, are to be
found in all natural products. Congress is, of course, presumed
to be familiar with the fact that leaf tobacco is divided into
classes, or is subjected, before being placed in bales, to some
kind of an assortment, and a knowledge of the similarities and
differences which are to be found in a collection of leaves of a
class doubtless furnished the reason for the adoption of the
percentage test.
All the tobacco in question in this case, as the evidence on
both sides shows, was raised in the same country, and was all

OCTOBER TER.M, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of the class known to the trade as wrappers. Therefore, any
bales, or, indeed, the whole invoice, if it might conveniently
be treated as a whole for the purpose, was just such a unit as
was intended by the statute. Any other view of this legislation would make it meaningless, for the very term, "per cent,"
implies an understanding that the tobacco to be taxed, even
though of an uniform grade, may contain some leaves possessing and some not possessing the qualifications required for
the higher tax. In such a case, if separate hands, taken from
a bale containing only leaves of one class, were treated as
units, the result might be an inaccurate conclusion. Doubtless
in the hands classed as containing tobacco dutiable at the lower
rate there would be leaves having all the requisites of the
higher grade, while in the hands ascertained to be taxable at
the higher rate would be leaves of the lower grade. This
might have the effect of making a division of tobacco of one
commercial class into two grades with respect to taxation- a
division which we do not believe to have been contemplated
by the statute. If the character of the tobacco is to be learned
from an examination of a representative quantity therefrom,
such as ten hands, the hands should be separated and the
statutory tests applied to the general collection of all the
representative leaves, irrespective of their casual association
in the separate hands.
Examining the evidence in this case, we find that one of the
importers gave testimony, based upon an examination of
samples from the bales in controversy, tending to show that
two of the plantation lots which were represented by five of
those bales contained tobacco of which 85 per cent neither
of the surface of the leaves nor of the quantity thereof, as
estimated by the weight of the bale, was of the requisite size
for wrappers; that the other two lots, represented by the
other five bales in controversy, contained tobacco of which
85 per cent of the surface, but not 85 per cent of the weight,
was suitable for wrappers. He further testified that 85 per
cent of the tobacco was suitable for wrappers in respect to
fineness of texture.
Considered with regard to fitness for wrappers each leaf of

ERHARDT v. SCHROEDER.
Opinion of the Court.

tobacco is divided, by what is called the stem, into two distinct portions. It is matter of common knowledge, that, in
making wrappers, the stem is not used, but is removed, with
the result of dividing the leaf into separate pieces. From
these pieces only are wrappers made, and their size and fineness of texture determine their suitability for wrappers, for if
one piece is of insufficient size it cannot be aided in usefulness
as a wrapper by the portion on the other side of the stem. If
tobacco is imported with the stems removed, each piece or
side, as it appears to be called by dealers and manufacturers,
would of necessity be treated as independent, for there would
be no means of knowing with certainty what parts were originally together in one leaf. In applying the test of size, therefore, the size of either -side of the leaf is to be looked to, and
the evident requirement of the statute is that eighty-five per
cent of half-leaves, or eighty-five out of a hundred, are to be
of the requisite size and necessary fineness of texture for
wrappers. In other words, each of eighty-five halfleaves out
of a hundred half-leaves must contain a portion, sufficiently
fine in texture, of the requisite size to make at least one wrapper. Eighty-five per cent of the surface of the single leaf is
not intended, for in that view any single leaf large enough
for a wrapper would be, in respect to size, one hundred per
cent or entirely of the requisite size for wrapper purposes, or,
if one wrapper could not be made from it, the leaf would have,
as to size, no percentage of suitability. Hence any leaf would
be required to be treated simply as fit or unfit, one hundred
per cent suitable in size or not suitable at all, and no general
percentage test would be applidable.
The importers call attention to their testimony to the effect
that in none of the four lots mentioned by them was there
eighty-five per cent of the weight of the tobacco suitable for
wrappers, and suggest that "as the commodity was bought,
sold, and dutied by the pound, the weight must be the test
to which the percentage rule applies." There is a practical
objection to this view, however, which renders it not acceptable. It might often happen that a half-leaf which was
suitable, according to the required test, would be joined, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

an unstemmed leaf, to one which was unsuitable, in which
case the weight of the respective parts could not be ascertained.
The most natural interpretation of the paragraph in question
is to consider .eighty-five per cent of half-leaves, or suitable
half-leaves eighty-five in number out of half-leaves one hundred in number as the requirement, and to regard the proportion of the weight of the suitable half-leaves to the weight of
all the leaves as immaterial.
A further requirement of the act is that the leaves of the
collection must be of such average lightness that mor6 than
one hundred are required to weigh a pound; that is to say,
if the collection should weigh 160 pounds it must contain more
than 16,000 leaves; or if some smaller collection, taken as
representative of the whole, such as ten hands, should weigh
four pounds, this representative collection must contain more
than 400 leaves. Here We are not'to have in view, as in the
other test, the separate parts of the leaves, for the language
of the act expressly provides for the condition that "100 leaves
are required to weigh a pound." The word leaves plainly
means leaves in their natural state, or whole leaves.
Assuming that the importers, in testifying concerning the
size and fineness of texture of tobacco, had in mind the proper
test when speaking of the percentage of the surface suitable
for wrappers, we must take their evidence to mean that only
five of the ten bales in controversy contained tobacco of which
less than eighty-five per cent fulfilled, as to the size and fineness
of texture, the demands of paragraph 246. It would seem, therefore, that the court below was in error in directing a verdict
for the importers, and that the judgment of that court ought
to be reversed, and the case remanded with directions to set
aside the verdict, and to order a new trial, in order that a jury
may pass upon the real character of the tobacco contained in
the ten bales withdrawn by the importers.
Judgment reversed.
AIR.

JUSTICE BREWER

part in the decision.

did not sit at the argument or take

