OCTOBER 'TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

moved "for appeal, which motion was by the court sustained
and appeal allowed," and plaintiff was granted time for bill
of exceptions. The record then states that plaintiff presented
"his bond for appeal . . . which bond was approved by
the clerk and filed in said cause," but the bond is not set out.
Then follows an assignment of errors and bill of exceptions.
No writ of error was issued or citation signed, and no appearance has been entered for the county of Platte. The record
was filed in this court February .2, 1891.
In many jurisdictions an appeal from a court of general
jurisdiction is in the nature of a writ of error, but that is not
so in respect of the Circuit Courts of the United States, as to
which the distinction between the two modes of review has
generally, if not always, been observed in the acts of Congress.
Whatever the course pursued in the courts of the State of
Missouri under the statutes of that State in relation to the
allowance of appeals, the appellate jurisdiction of this court is
regulated by the acts of Congress, and final judgments of the
Circuit Court in cases such as this can only be revised on writ
of error.
Appeal dismi8sed.

LLOYD v. MATTHEWS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.
No. $1. Argued and submited November 19, 1894.-

Decided December 3,184

In this court, acting under its appellate jurisdiction, whatever was matter
of fact in a state court, whose judgment or decree is under review, is
matter of fact here.

Whenever a court of one State is required to ascertain what effect a public
act of another State has in that other State, the law must be proved as a
fact.

When in the courts of a State the validity of a statute of another State is not
drawn in question, but only its construction, no Federal questioa arises.
The decision by the highest court of the State of Kentucky that the laws
of the State of Ohio permit an insolvent debtor to prefer a creditor,
which was made in a case in which the a.si,rnee of the insolvent, a party
to the suit contesting the preference, failed to plead the construction

given the Ohio statutes by the courts of Ohio, or to introduce the printed

LLOYD v. MATTHEWS.
Statement of the Case.
books of cases adjudged in the State of Ohio, or to prove the common
law of that State by the parol evidence of persons learned in that law,
or to put in evidence the laws of that State as printed under the authority
thereof, or a certified copy thereof, raises no Federal question.
HATrlE A. MATTrirws held the demand note of E. L. Harper
for $5000, on which the interest had been paid to January 1,
1882. June 21, 1887, Harper Was the owner of some shares
of stock in the Fidelity Building, Savings and Loan Company
of Newport, Kentucky, worth about $6000, which he, being
insolvent, transferred on the morning of that day to Miss
Matthews in part payment of the debt, by blank indorsement
in the building company's book. Afterward the name of
J. H. Otten was inserted as a proper person to obtain the
money, and for this reason he was made a party to these proceedings, though having no real interest therein., A few hours
after the transfer, Harper made an assignment of all his property for the benefit of his creditors under the insolvent laws
of Ohio, and, the person named as assignee failing to qualify,
H. P. Lloyd, the present plaintiff in error, was appointed, by
the proper court, such assignee. Certain creditors of Harper
brought suit in the chancery court of Campbell County, Kentucky, on their several debts and attached the stock as the
property of Harper. These cases were consolidated, and while
they were pending, September 16, 1887, Miss Matthews and
Otten filed their joint petition to be made parties defendant,
which was done. They alleged the ownership by Harper of
the stock; the transfer by indorsement in the book, which
was made an exhibit; that Miss Matthews was a creditor of
Harper to an amount equal to the face value of the stock;
that the transfer of the stock was made some hours before the
execution of the deed of assignment by Harper; and was bona
,fde and for a valuable consideration, and passed all Harper's
interest; that Harper was a citizen and resident of the State
of Ohio at the time of the assignment and theretofore; that
"by the laws in existence at that time in said State of Ohio,
debtors had the right to make preferences in the payment of
their creditors either in the deed of assignment or by paying
them therefor in such a way as they saw proper;" that

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Lloyd had been made a party as assignee, and wqs claiming
'the stock as part of Harper's estate, while the plaintiffs in the
consolidated cases asserted their claims under the attachments;
afid praying that the stock be adjudged to Miss Matthews.
January 141, 1888, Miss Matthews and Otten filed a joint
amended answer, attaching the note as an exhibit, and making this and their former petition a cross-petition. On the
same day Lloyd, assignee, filed a reply to the answer and
an answer to the cross-petition. This pleading contained five
paragraphs. The first denied that Harper owed Miss Matthews anything at the time the stock was assigned; admitted
that at the time of the execution of the assignment Harper
and Miss Matthews were both citizens and residents of the
State of Ohio; denied "that at the time of making said assignment debtors had by the laws of the State of Ohio the
right to prefer their creditors in the deed of assignment."
The second paragraph asserted that the transfer and conveyance of the stock to Otten by Harper was made for the purpose and with the intent to defraud the creditors of Harper of
their just and lawful debts, dnd that such transfer and assignment was fraudulent and void under and by virtue of section
4196 of the Revised Statutes of the State of Ohio, which provided as follows, to wit:
"Every gift, grant, or conveyance of lands, tenements,
hereditaments, rents, goods or chattels, and every bond, judgment br execution made or obtained with intent to defraud
creditors of their just and lawful debts or damages, or to
defraud or to deceive the person or persons purchasing such
lands, tenements, hereditaments, rents, goods or chattels, shall
be deemed utterly void and of no effect."
The third paragraph denied any consideration for the
transfer. The fourth alleged the transfer to be fraudulent and
done with intent to hinder and delay Harper's creditors.
The fifth averred that the transfer was made by.Harper with
the intent to prefer Miss Matthews, if she was a creditor,
which defendant denied, over his other creditors, and was void
under section 6343 of the Revised Statutes of the State of
Ohio, which read as follows:

LLOYD v. MNATTHEWS.
Counsel for Parties.

"All assignments in trust to a trustee or trustees, made in
contemplation of insolvency, with the intent to prefer one or
more creditors, shall inure to the equal benefit of all creditors
in proportion to the amount of their respective claims, and the
trusts arising under the same shall be administered in conformity with the pi'ovisions of this chapter."
On May 18, 1888, Miss Matthews filed reply to the original
answer and cross-petition of Lloyd, trustee, as follows:
"The defendant Hattie A. Matthews for reply to answer
and cross-petition of H. P. Lloyd says she admits R. L. Harper
was insolvent when.he assigned the building association stock
to her.
"She admits that he assigned the stock to her with the intention to prefer her to the exclusion of the creditors, but, as
was stated in her original pleadings, this was allowable under
the laws of Ohio.
"She denies that under the provisions of the laws which
are set out in said pleading of Lloyd, to which this is a reply,
that there is anything which invalidates the transfer of the
stock to this defendant, the same involved in the case.
"Wherefore the defendant prays as in her original pleadings
and for general relief."
The chancery court rendered judgment in favor of Lloyd,
trustee, for the full value of the stock, amounting as a money
demand against the building association to the sum of $4914.89,
and Miss Matthews and Otten appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, which reversed the judgment
of the chancery court and remanded the cause, with directions
to render judgment in favor of Miss Matthews in conformity
to the opinion. Xlatthews v. Iloyd, 89 Kentucky, 625.
To review this-judgment a writ of error from this court was
allowed.
MX. 11. P. Lloyd, (with whom was Mr. C. L. PRaison, Jr.,
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles J. Helm, Mr.Charles H Fisk, and -Yr. JohnS.
Ducker for defendants in error, submitted on their brief.
VOL. CLI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CMEF JUSTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The Federal question upon which plaintiff relies to sustain our jurisdiction is that under the statutory law of Ohio,
set out in his plead ing, the transfer of the stock in question was
void, and that the Court of Appeals of Kentucky in rendering
judgment did not give that full faith and credit to the public
acts, records, and judicial proceedings of the state of Ohio
which the Constitution and the law of the United States require.
Const. Art IV, § 1 ; Rbv. Stat. § 905.
The first error assigned is as follows: "The Court of Appeals
of Kentucky erred in the decision rendered in this case below,
in failing to give full faith and credit to the laws of the State
of Ohio which were presented in the pleadings; in failing to
give full faith and credit to the judicial construction of such
laws by the highest court of said State; and in failing to give
full faith and credit to the judicial proceedings of the probate
court of Hamilton County, Ohio, as set forth in the pleadings."
We do not find that the record contains any judicial proceedings of the probate court of Hamilton County, Ohio, but
suppose the reference to be to proceedings in insolvency upon
the filing of the deed of assignment by Harper, under which
Lloyd, trustee, claims, and that such insolvency proceedings
could have no greater effect on the question of title than
allowed by the laws of Ohio in the matter of the preference
of creditors.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky held that, as the parties
all resided in Ohio, and the entire transaction occurred there,
its validity was to be tested by the law in force there; that
at common law a debtor had a right to prefer a creditor,
either by payment or an express preference in a deed of
assignment; that he had a right to pay his debt, and it was
only by virtue of statutory law that such a payment could
be held invalid and the creditor be compelled to surrender
his advantage; that, in the absence of any showing of the
existence of such a statute in another State, it must be presumed that the common law was in force there; that section

LLOYD v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

6343 of the Revised Statutes of Ohio, set out in the pleadings,
did not appear "to embrace a case like this one, but to relate
alone to preferences made in deeds of assignment to trustees
for creditors generally;" that this transfer could not properly
be held to be a part of the deed of assignment; and that,
tested by the rules of the common law, the preference was not
invalid.
Now, in arriving at these conclusions, the Court of Appeals
did not concur with the views of Harper's assignee, but does
it therefore follow that full faith and credit was denied to the
laws of Ohio and to the construction of such laws by the highest court of that State ? The courts of the United States
when exercising their original jurisdiction take notice, without
proof, of the laws of the several States, but in the Supreme
Court of the United States, when acting' under its appellate
jurisdiction, whatever was matter of fact in the state court
whose judgment or decree is under review is matter of fact
there. And whenever a court of one State is required to
ascertain what effect a public act of another State has in that
State, the law of such other State must be proved as a fact.
Chicago & .Alton Rail,oad v. Wiggins Ferry Company, 119
U. S. 615; Hanley v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1.
The Court of Appeals was obliged to determine the case on
the record, and plaintiff in error had failed to plead the construction given the Ohio statutes by the courts of Ohio, or to
introduce the printed books of cases adjudged in the State of
Ohio, or to prove the common law of that State by the parol
evidence of persons learned in that law, or to put in evidence
the laws of that State as printdd under the authority thereof,
or a certified copy thereof, as provided by the law of Kentucky.
Gen. Stats. Ky. 1888, c. 37, §§ 17, 19, pp. 546, 547.
The Court .of Appeals was left, therefore,, to construe the
parts of the Ohio laws that were pleaded as it would local
laws; and it is settled that, under such circumstances, where
the validity of a state law is not drawn in question, but merely
its construction, no Federal question arises. As was remarked
in Glenn v. Garth, 147 U. S. 360, 368: "If every time the
courts of a State put a construction upon the statutes of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

another State, this court may be required to determine
whether that construction was or was not correct, upon the
ground that if it were concluded that the construction was
incorrect, it would follow that the state courts had refused to
give full faith and-credit to the statutes involved, our jurisdiction would be enlarged in a manner never heretofore believed
to have been contemplated." Grand GulfRailroad v. Afarshall, 12 How. 165; Cook County v. Calumet Canal & Dock
Co., 138 U. S. 635.
This record contains nothing to show, as matter of fact, that
the public acts of Ohio had by law or usage in Ohio any other
effect.than was given them by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
Writ of error dismissed.
MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN was of opinion that the writ of error
should be retained and the judgment affirmed.

ORIGET v. HEDDEN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 19. Argued October 10, 11, 1894. -Decided

December 8, 1894.

The remedy of an importer on a question of valuation is to call for a reappraisement; though, if his cc,.tention be that a jurisdictional .question
exists, he may make his protest, pointing out the defect, and stand upon
it as the ground of refusal to pay the increased duty.
What an importer's agent says to an assistant appraiser, or conversations
had subsequently to the appraisement, are not competent evidence in an
action like this.

The court below properly excluded a question propounded to the merchant
appraiser as to whether o not he and the general appraiser did not agree

to apply the valuation of one case in each invoice to the entire importation of which it was a ldart; and also the question whether or not those

goods in the several cases were all of the same character as to value.
Reappraisers may avail themselves of clerical assistance to average appraisements given by different experts, when it appears that it was for their
guidance only.

