OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE:

The judgment is reversed and the

cause remanded to the Circuit Court for further proceedings,
upon the authority of Horne v. George H. -Hammond Comyany, ante, 393, and cases cited.
Reversed.

)BURKE v. AMERICAN LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 102. Argued December 4, 1894.-Decided January 7, 1895.

An agreement by a Finance Company to undertake the work of the reorganization of a railway company and the procuring of a loan to it is
held to have been executed by it so far as to entitle it to a commission
of ten per cent on the par value of the bonds issued by the company,
payable in such bonds at par.
ON January 23, 1887, a decree of foreclosure and sale was
entered in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Ohio, in the case of The American Loan
& Trust Company v. The Toledo, Oolumbus c Southern Railway Company and Theophilus P. Brown. In this decree
there was. a finding that on April 22, 1885, the defendant
railway company, owning a line of railway, with appurtenances, extending from Toledo to Findlay, had issued 825
bonds of $1000 each, and secured the same by a trust deed on
all its property, and that it had defaulted in the payment of
interest on the bonds; and an order for a sale of the property in satisfaction of the debt,-principal, and interest. On
October 16, 1888, the property was sold for the sum of
$600,000 to Stevenson Burke and Charles ilickox, who turned
in on their purchase 713 of the outstanding bonds, and at
the same time made claim of title to the remaining 112 not in
their possession. On February 4, 1889, the sale was confirmed,
and the dispute as.to the ownership of the bonds not surrendered was referred to a special master, who, on March 25, 1890,

BURKE v. AMKERICAN LOAN & TRUST CO.

535

Statement of the Case.

reported adversely to the claims thereto of the said purchasers.
This report was sustained by the court on December 20, 1890,
and a final decree of distribution entered. Pending these
proceedings Charles Hickox died, and an order of revivor as
to his interest was entered in the name of Charles G. Hickox,
his administrator. From the decree the appellants took this
appeal. On the hearing in this court the only contention was
as to the ownership of 80 of these bonds which had been
delivered to the American Finance Company.
The dispute as to title grew out of these facts: Prior to
April 14, 1884, Theophilus P. Brown was the owner of all the
stock except a nominal amount, and of all the first mortgage
bonds, amounting to $800,000, of the Toledo and Indianapolis
Railway Company. The bonds were held in hypothecation
by vafious persons or corporations to secure the payment of
certain obligations of the railway company or of Brown. The
railroad had been constructed from Toledo to Findlay, in the
State of Ohio, a distance of about 41 miles, but was at the
time in the hands of a receiver. There were also sundry lien
claims for right of way, lumber, and material. In order to
extricate himself and the railway company from the financial
embarrassments, and to provide for extending the railroad, he,
as party of the first part, on that day entered into a contract
with the American Finance Company as party of the second
part. The contract provided conditionally for the organization of a new railroad corporation. To this new corporation
all the stock, bonds, property, and franchises of the old corporation were to be sold and transferred, and the former was to issue
its stock and bonds -of the former $25,000 per mile, and of
the latter $20,000 per mile -such
stock and bonds to be
used in the purchase of the properties of the old corporation, in the payment of its debts and obligations, and in
extending the road. The Finarice Company was to undertake the work of organization, the settlement of the claims,
and the procuring of a loan of from $300,000 to $400,000
in money, to be secured by the promissory note of the
party of the first part, and. a pledge of either bonds of the
old or the new corporation, the money thus raised to be used

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in payment of the debts, and in extension of the road. Articles six, nine, and ten of the contract are as follows:
Cc
ARTIcLE VI. There is to be allQtted and paid to said party
of the second part, in consideration of the premises, a commissio.n or compensation of two and one-half per centum on the
amount of money raised by said party of the second part for
said party of the first part by way of loans or by means of the
settlement of the claims and obligations: such commission or
compensation to be payable at such time as the money
received from such loan or loans shall be paid over to said
party of the first part by said party of the second part, or as
the existing obligations secured by the pledge of bonds as collateral shall be taken up, and as said liens and other claims
shall be paid by said party of the second part, it being undestood that the commission mentioned in this article will have
been earned by said party of the second part whenever the
settlement shall be brought about as result of this agreement. But it is understood and agreed that if and so far as
the loan of money shall be obtained, said party of the first
part is to have the right of causing the purchase of such
claims and liens upon such terms as he may be able to make
with the holders thereof, and that whatever discount is saved
in such purchase shall inure to the benefit of said party of the
first part."
" ARTIcLE IX. Said party of the second part is to receive in
consideration of the premises a commission or compensation
of ten per centum on the face or par value of the bonds and
stock issued and to be issued by said railroad companies and
negotiated: said ten per centum on said bonds being payable
in said bonds at par, or in the net cash proceeds of the sales
thereof, at its option, and on said stock in said stock at par:
such payments or deliveries to be made from time to time pro
rata as any of said bonds shall be negotiated, sold, or exchanged for outstanding liabilities or for property, labor, and
materials required by said railroad companies or either of
them, or otherwise used or disposed of.
" ARTIcLE X. In addition to the said ten per centum of stock
hereinbefore agreed to be paid to said party of the second

BURKE v. A ERICANX

LOAN7 & TRUST CO

537

Statement of the Case.

part as commission, there is to be appropriated. and transferred to said party of the second part, as hereinbefore mentioned, in further consideration of the premises and of its
undertakings to secure the marketing of said bonds, the fortyfive per centum of the capital stock of said new railroad company, the same to be issued and delivered to said party of the
second part pro i.ata, from time to time, as said bonds or any
of them shall be negotiated or otherwise disposed of, as provided in paragraph last above written : but the total of said
ten per centum commission on stock and bonds shall not
exceed ten per centum of the amount issued for each mile of
road in the name of the new railroad company."
In pursuance of this agreement the Finance Company made
arrangements with Israel B. Mason, of Providence, and Francello G. Jillson, of Woonsocket, in Rhode Island, for a loan of
$325,000, but before the loan was actually consummated, and
on September 24, 1884, a tripartite agreement was entered
into between Brown as party of the first part, the Finance
Company as party of the second part, and Mason and Jillson.
as parties of the third part, which contained these recitals
and stipulations:
"That whereas an agreement was entered into, undnr date
of April 14, 1884, by and between said parties of the first and
second part (copies of which are held by each of the parties
hereto) in relation, among other things, to the negotiation
underta4en by said party of the second part for said party of
the first part of the notes of said party of the first part to the
amount of $325,000, and also to the negotiation of $800,000 of
the stck and $800,000 of the first mortgage bonds of said
Toledo and Indianapolis Railway Company, and said party of
the second part has requested said parties of the third part to
take said notes on behalf of themselves and associates, and
said parties of the 3d part have .consented thereto, upon and
subject to the terms and conditions herein expressed, and subject to the consmnmation of all the details to the satisfaction
of all the parties hereto:
"lIt is therefore hereby agreed by and between the parties
hereto that said terms and conditions are and shall be as

follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"1. Said Brown is to make, endorse, and deliver his several
promissory notes in approved form and denominations, payable to his own order within two years from this date, with
interest at six per cent per annum from date, said interest to
be payable semi-annually, and said notes to be accompanied
by first mortgage bonds of said Toledo and Indianapolis.Railway Company, at the rate -of fifty cents on the dollar as collateral security, said bonds bearing coupons maturing April
1, 1885, all past-due coupons and those maturing October 1,
1884, being first taken off and cancelled.
"6. A bonus of ten per cent on the amount of ronds
pledged as collateral security for the payment of said notes
is to be paid to the purchasers of said notes at the time of
such purchase, in the first mortgage bonds of said Toledo and
Indianapolis Railway Company at par.
"S. The net proceeds of said notes are to be deposited in
such bank or trust company as the said Mason and Jillson
and said American Finance Company may designate; such
deposit to be made for the credit and account of said ' American Fihance Company, trustee,' in trust for disbursement by
it for the purposes hereinabove expressed.
"9. All the remainder of said $800,000 of first mortgage
bonds of said Toledo and Indianapolis Railway Company
over and above the $650,000 of the same pledged to secure
the payment of said $325,000 of said notes are hereby appropriated as follows: 1. To the purchasers of said notes their said
bonus, amounting to $65,000 thereof, to be distributed among
them _ro 'atca according to their respective holdings of said
notes. 2. To said American Finance Company $80,000 thereof,
in full payment of all its claims for commissions for negotiating said $800,000 of said bonds, 3. To said Brown $5000
thereof; such appropriations and the delivery of said bonds
to be made from time to time _pro rata as said notes are disposed of."
Provision was also made in this contract for a substitution
of the bonds and stock of the new corporation as soon as it

BURKE v. AMERICAN LOAN & TRUST CO. 539
Opinion of the Court.

should be organized. These contracts were carried into effect,
Mason and Jillson receiving the notes of Brown to the amount
of $325,000, together with the bonds of the Toledo, Columbus
and Southern Railway Company, the new corporation, $650,000
as collateral and $65,000 as bonus. The $80,000- bonds were
delivered to the Finance Company. Subsequently Brown,
Mason, and Jillson sold out to Burke and Hickox, and transferred to them all the bonds then remaining in their possession, to wit, the 713 surrendered at the time of the purchase.
fr. Stevenson Burke for appellants.
Yr. Benjamin F..Blairfor appellee.
I

Mr. Jusrion BREwR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The contention of appellants is that by the contract of
April 14, 1881, the Finance Company was to receive a commission of two and one-half per cent upon all moneys obtained by way of loans; that it has been paid such sum;
that the ten per cent provided by article nine was to .be in
compensation for the negotiation of the bonds, and to be paid
over to the Finance Company from time to time pro rata as
such bonds should be negotiated, sold, or exchanged for outstanding liabilities, or for property, labor, and material; that
none were so negotiated, sold, or exchanged, and, therefore,
nothing ever became due to the company on account thereof;
that the tripartite agreement of September 24, 1884, reaffirms
the same stipulation, for it provides that the bonds shall be
"appropriated as foll6ws . . . to said American- Finance
Company $80,000 thereof in full payment of all its claims for
commissions for negotiating said $800,000 of said bonds."
We are unable to concur in this construction. Article nine
does not limit the ten per cent compensation to the case of
bonds "negotiated, sold, or exchanged,' but extends it to
those "otherwise used or disposed of;" and $720,000- that
is, all of the $800,000 except the ten per cent received by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Finance Company- were used in securing the notes for
$325,000, and in payment to Brown. So that it might plausibly be urged that under the terms of the first agreement, taken
by itself, the Finance Company had earned the $80,000 of
bonds. But we are not limited to the language of the first
agreement. The second provides that the $150,000 of bonds
remaining after the pledge of the $650,000 to secure the payment of the money borrowed shall be "appropriated" as follows: To the purchasers of the notes, a bonus of $65,000; to
the Finance Company, $80,000 ; and to Brown, $5000; and
at the close of the words of appropriation, and applicable to
each of them, is this language: "Such appropriations and the
delivery of said bonds to be made from time to timepro rata
as said notes shall be disposed of." The notes were all disposed of, and so, within the letter of this stipulation, the time
had arrived for the appropriation and delivery of all of the
bonds. The purchasers of the notes, as well as Brown, unquestionably took title to the bonds "appropriated" to them;
why did not the company, the second of the three parties
named, in like manner obtain title?
Not only had the time arrived for the "appropriation" of
these bonds to the Finance Company, but in fact they had
been delivered. Each bond carried on its face a proviso that
it should not become valid or obligatory until authenticated
by the signature of the trustee. As no question is made of
the validity of these .bonds, it must be assumed that they were
thus each duly authenticated. Negotiable bonds- and these
were negotiable bonds - may be transferred by the holder to
a bona fide purchaser so as to vest in the latter a good title
as against all equities between the maker and the original
holder, and as a matter of fact the Finance Company did
before this controversy appropriate all of these bonds as collateral security for loans made to it, and otherwise. Knowledge that these bonds could be thus used must be assumed,
and as there is no pretence that the Finance Company surrep titiously or fraudulently obtained possession, ilt is a fair
inference that they were delivered to it with the understanding on the part of all the parties of its full right to them.

BURKE

.

MERICAN LOAN & TRUST CO.

541

Opinion of the Court.

There is no full disclosure of all the circumstances under
which- the several holders received these bond from the
Finance Company, and no testimony to impeach their good
faith in the transactions by ivhich they received them. It is,
therefore, difficult to see why, even if any doubt existed as to
the title of the Finance Company, they are not protected as
bonajide holders.
Still, further, the tripartite agreement was, as we have
seen, executed on September 24, 1884. Eight days before
its execution, and on September 16, the president of the Finance Company wrote to Brown a letter, received by him on
the next day, the 17th, in which letter it was stated: "Our
company cannot afford, of course, for the little 21 per cent
commission on the lban only, to use its position and capital to
set the road on its feet and take the risk of your death, and
any contingency that might otherwise arise, and hence we,
and Messrs. Jillson & Mason, are treating the negotiation as
a sale of the bonds, but in doing this our company extinguishes all its claims for commissions, so far as the present
portion of the road is concerned."
'With such statement of the understanding of the Finance
Company, Brown signed the tripartite agreement, providing
for the appropriation of the $80,000 of bonds to the Finance
Company in full payment of all its claims for commissions.
It is hard to believe in the light of this letter, that the parties
had any other idea than that, at least as soon as the notes
were disposed of, the $80,000 should become the property of
the Finance Company. Bi'own-v. Aqnerican Loan &c. Co., 31
Fed. Rep. 516.
Finally, it is found by the master that "the Finance Company did in fact render important services to T. P. Brown
under these agreements in the negotiating of said bonds and
negotiating of loans, which enabled T. P. Brown to pay off
the claims against the old Toledo and Indianapolis Railroad
Company, and thereby secure possession and control of the
bonds of said Toledo and. Indianapolis Railroad Company
which had been hypothecated to various parties to secure the
claims for which said company was. indebted."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement.

We think that the Circuit Court, in view of all these considerations, did not err in its conclusion, and, therefore, its
decree is
-Afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN took no part in the decision of this case.

SOUTI
ERROR

CAROLINA v. WESLEY.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 796. Submitted December 10, 1894. -Decided

January 7, 1595.

W. brought an action in the Circuit Court for the District of Soutb Carolina to recover possession of a lot of land. The defendants set up that
they held for that State and had no individual rights in the premises.
The Attorney General of the State, the day before the cause came on
for trial, filed a suggestion that the property in controversy was used by
the State for public uses, and, without submitting the rigits of the
State to the jurisdiction of the court, moved the dismissal of the proceedings for want of jurisdiction. The record did not show that the
averments in the suggestion were either proved or admitted. The trial
resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. After the verdict
and before the entry of judgment the court overruled the motion of the
Attorney General. The record showed no bill of exceptions to this ruling, but it appeared by agreement of counsel that the motion was overruled and exception taken. The State sued out this writ of error. Reld,
(1) That the course pursued below as to the suggestion by the Attorney
General could not be recognized as regular and sufficient;
(2) That as the record did not show that the averments of the suggestion were either proved or admitted, the Circuit Court could not
properly arrest the proceedings;
(3) That as the State was not a party to the record, and refused to submit to the jurisdiction of the court, its writ of error should be
dismissed.
Reference cannot properly be made to a transcript of record in a case
pending in another court, to supply defects in the record of a case in
this court.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

