IN RE NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO., Petitioner. 523
Statement of the Case.

In re NEW YORK AND PORTO RICO STEAMSHIP
COMPANY, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No. 8. Original. Submitted December 17, 18)4. - Decided January 7,1895.

In re Rice, Petitioner,ante, 396, affirmed and applied, to the points: (1) That
a party is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of right where it
appears that the court whose action is sought to be prohibited had clearly
no jurisdiction of the cause originally, or of some collateral matter arising therein, and that he objected to the jurisdiction at the outset, and has
no other remedy; (2) That where there is another remedy by appeal or
otherwise, or where the question of the jurisdiction of the court is doubtful or depends on facts which are not made matter of record, or where
the application is made by a stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ
is discretionary; and it is not obligatory where the case has gone to sentence, and thd want of jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the
proceedings.
When a District Court has general jurisdiction in admiralty over the subjectmatter and over the parties, it should be allowed to proceett to decision;
and if it commits error in entertaining a claimant's contention against
the charterers in the same suit with the libel against the ship, the error
may be corrected on appeal.

THE American Sugar Refining Company and John B. Gossler filed their libel July 22, 1893, in the District Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, against
the British steamship Centurion to recover damages to a consignment of hogsheads of sugar imported from ports in Porto
Rico to New York under certain bills of lading. The faults
specified as the grounds of the claim were negligent and improper stowage; want of proper care on the part of the master, officers, and crew, or of the agent of the vessel and persons
employed by him; failure to properly clean the hold and
bilges for the cargo before loading it; omission to close the
hatches between certain molasses, which was stowed in the
between-deck, and sugar stowed in the lower hold; negligence
on the part of the officers and crew to use the pumps on the
voyage. And it was alleged that "a number of hogsheads of
molasses having been broken and others having been shifted,
either through stress of weather or improper stowage, their

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

contents ran down into the lower hold upon the sugar, partly
through the hatches and partly through the scuppers; that by
reason of such defective condition of the hatches, pumps, bilges,
sluiceways, decks, scuppers, and other equipment and appurtenances, and the failure and negligence of the officers and crew
or those in charge of her to properly pump the vessel, the
molasses and drainage from the sugar collected in the lower
hold, washing out part of the sugar from the hogsheads and
damaging the remainder."
On the twenty-eighth day of February, 1894, John Blumer
& Co., owners and claimants of the Centurion, filed their
petition, averring, among other things, that "the Centurion
at all the times mentioned in the said libel of the American
Sugar Refining Company and John B. Gossler was under a
time charter to the New York and Porto Rico Steamship
Company, a domestic corporation, by a charter of demise,
which provided, amongst other things, that all cargoes should
be loaded and stowed by the said charterers, and all work
and labor in and about the loading, stowage, and discharging
thereof was performed and paid for by the charterers and their
servants, the master and officers of said steamship under the
charter party having no- duties to perform in connection with
the loading, stowage, and discharge of the cargo, their functions being limited exclusively to the navigation of the vessel.
The-cargo in question was loaded by the agents and servants
of the said charterers, the New York and IPorto Rico Steamship Company, in Porto Rico, under the supervision of their
purser and supercargo, who accompanied the vessel, and if
there was any, negligence in and -about the loading, stowage,
or care of the said cargo, as alleged in the said libel (which is
expressly denied), such improper stowage, negligence, and want
of care was on the part of the said servants of the time charterers and not on the part of the master, officers, and crew of
said steamship." And petitioners prayed that process, according to the course of cases in admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, should issue against the New York and Porto 'Rico
Steamship Company, citing it to appear and answer the petition
and the libel, and that the court should pronounce against the

IN RE NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO., Petitioner. 525
Statement of the Case.
charterers instead of against the steamship, if the allegations of
the libel should be proved and sustained; and for general relief.
Citation was ordered to issue and upon the return thereof
the charterers appeared "specially for the purpose of objecting to the jurisdiction of this court," and moved to set aside
the process on the grounds: "1. That this court has no juris2. That
diction in admiralty to entertain such petition.
case
forth
any
not
set
it
does
upon the face of said petition
New
the
said
wherein process ought of right to issue against
York and Porto Rico Steamship Company." The District
Court denied the motion to set aside, the District Judge
stating in a memorandum: "I. cannot sustain either of the
within objections, and no such inconveniences are made probable as should lead to the disallowance in this instance as a,
matter of discretion." The New York and Porto Rico Steamship Company then applied to this court for an order to show
cause why a writ of prohibition should not issue prohibiting
the District Court from taking jurisdiction of the petition
under which that company was brought into the suit of the
libellants against the Centurion. Leave having been granted
to file the application, and a rule having been entered thereon,
the District Judge made his return thereto, submitting:
"That" the order and the citation to make the New York
and Porto Rico Steamship Company a party defendant were
issued because in the libel it was alleged that the damage to
the"sugars in question arose from different alleged acts of
negligence, for some of which, if established, it appeared. by
the petition of the owners of the Centurion that the New
York and Porto Rico Company would be primarily liable and
bound to indemnify the shipowners, and for other of said
acts of negligence, if proved, the ship would be primarily
liable; and that the presence of the last-named company as a
party to the suit was necessary to the due administration of
justice in order to avoid a multiplicity of suits; to secure a
complete hearing of the subject-matter through the presence
of all the parties interested; to obtain an adjudication which
should do justice to each and be binding upon all; to avoid
conflicting decisions to which separate suits would be liable

OCTOBER TERM,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

through the different evidence likely to be produced in them
when the parties were different, and thus to avoid any possible failure of justice through such causes, and any discredit to
the administration thereof; and because the case, though not
within the letter, was deemed to be within the spirit of the
59th Rule of the Supreme Court in admiralty, and because
the order of this court to bring in the said company as a
defendant at once instead of requiring the owners of the
Centurion to wait until after a judgment against them before
filing an independent libel against the said company in case
negligent stowage was established, was, in the absence of any
express rule on the subject by the Supreme Court, deemed to
be within the limits of the authority of this court, as conferred by section 918 of the Revised Statutes, whereby this
court is authorized ' to regulate its own practice as may be
necessary or convenient for the advancement of justice and
the prevention of delays in proceedings,' and also as conferred
by the 46th Rule of the Supreme Court in admiralty authorizing the District Court in cases ' not provided for by the previous rules' to regulate its practice 'in such manner as it shall
deem most expedient for the due administration of justice in
suits in admiralty.' Of these considerations a fuller statement has been given by this court in the cases of The .Bludson, 15 Fed. Rep. 162, and The Alert, 40 Fed. Rep. 836, to
which reference is hereby respectfully made.
"A further reason for the said order and citation was, that
since the promulgation of the said 59th Rule, the constant
resort to it in innumerable instances has been found in practice most useful in preventing abuses, and in general extremely
satisfactory; and the occasional application of the rule to
other cases of negligence or torts, closely analogous to those
expressly covered by the 59th Rule, has proved equally conducive to the most speedy and satisfactory distribution of
justice.
"The motion to set aside the citati6n was denied for the
above reasons, and because in the present instance no inconvenience to the said New York and Porto Rico Company
was shown or even averred to be likely to arise, such as

IN RE NEW YORK be. STEAMSHIP CO., Petitioner. 527
Opinion of the Court.
might lead the court in its discretion to withhold the relief
asked for by the defendant shipowners.
"I further certify that the following additional pleadings
have been filed in said cause, viz., the claimants' answer to
the libel, and the libellants' answer to the petition, copies of
which are hereto annexed; and that, on the argument of the
motion to set aside the additional process, the substance of
said claimants' answer was stated to the court, as the answer
to be filed; and that the New York and Porto Rico Steamship Company has not answered, having been given by me
until twenty days after the decision on this application for
a writ of prohibition, in which to answer."
The answer of claimants thus referred to denied that the
loss was ascribable to any act or omission for which the'vessel
or her owners were liable, but averred that it should be- as.cribed to perils of the sea; and in the alternative, "that if
there was any neglect or default on the part of those engaged
in or about the stowage, care or delivery of the cargo, as to
which they had no knowledge, such neglect or default was
on the part of the said charterers, their agents or servants,
for which the claimants and the said steamship should not
be held responsible." Claimants also set up in bar of the
suit a decree in favor of libellants under a previous libel.
57 Fed. Rep. 412. That was a case arising on a different
consignment of cargo stored in the same hold, on the same
voyage, and the charterers, who were brought in as in this
case, were held liable to pay the decree.
Mr.George A. Black for the petitioner.
X.

T Parker Xirli opposing.

M2R. CHIEF JusncE FuLL-R, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In his return to the rule the learned District Judge, in
elucidation of the grounds on which his order rested, refers
to The Hudson, 15 Fed. Rep. 162, and The Alert, 40 Fed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 836. In The Hudson it was held that where several
vessels are alleged to be in fault in causing a collision by
which the property of a third person is injured, in a libel by
the latter to recover his damages, all the vessels should be
proceeded against as defendants to avoid multiplicity of suits,
and to enable the damages to be justly apportioned among
those liable according to the law in admiralty; and that if in
such suit the libellant proceeds against one vessel only, it is
competent for the District Court to award its further process in
the cause, upon the petition of the vessel sued, for the arrest of
the other vessels to answer for their share of the damage. The
question of the right to pursue this course was discussed at
large by the learned judge and the conclusion reached that it
was competent for the District Court in cases not provided
for by the rules in admiralty of this court to regulate its own
practice and to allow remedies according to the analogies
of admiralty procedure as new exigencies arose, which the
court might. deem necessary for the due administration of
justice; and that it was essential and expedient in collision
cases in admiralty that the liability of all persons or vessels
involved should be determined in a single action rather than
in successive independent suits. The decision was announced
February 7, 1883, and on Mlarch 26, 1883, Rule 59 in admiralty was promulgated by this court. 112 U. S. '[43. This
rule provided for procedure through which in a suit against
one vessel for damage by collision process might be issued in
the same suit against any other vessel charged with contributing to the same collision, or any other party, and for proceedings thereon.
In The Alert the District Court decided that in an action
in rem against a chartered ship for damage to cargo, the
charterers might, on the claimants' petition showing that the
damage arose from the charterers' fault, b.e made parties
defendant on the analogy of The Hudson, and of Rule 59.
Afterwards, the court, having no doubt upon the evidence
taken in the case that libellant was entitled to a decree
against the Alert, while it did- not clear up the dispute between the codefendants, held that the libellant might take

IN RE NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO, Petitioner. 529
Opinion of the Court.

a decree against the Alert, and the case be retained for subsequent determination as between the defendants. 44 Fed.
Rep. 685. The claimants thereupon appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, because the District
Court had not decided the whole case and determined the
rights of all the parties thereto, but the decree of the Circuit
Court was affirmed. 61 Fed. Rep. 113.
The opinion of the Districk Judge on the motion to set
aside the process against the charterers as unauthorized (40.
.Fed.. Rep. 836) is an able and exhaustive discussion of the
question involved.
The Alert was sued in rem for damage to cargo by the
breaking of her tackle whiledischarging under a charter, and
her owners in their answer averred that the tackle was furnished either by the shipper or by the charterers under a
special agreement between them and not by the ship. The
learned judge said: "The paper& on which the present order
against the charterers was issued show that the contract sued
on was the charterers' contract. The libel is for damages
upon the breach of this contract, through a negligent delivery
of cargo. The charterers were in possession of the ship; they
were the ownerspro hac vice; they were the principals in the
contract. The bill of lading was their obligation, not that of
.the master, who protested against such cargo, and no fault
appears in the ship or master. The owners of the ship, who
have been obliged tq interpose as claimants to prevent the
sacrifice of their property, and the master, are under no personal responsibility. They are strangers to the contract sued
on, and without any certain means of ascertaining tbe facts,
or producing the evidence of them. Upon the case, as thus
far presented, if the ship is liable, the charterers are also
liable, and bound to indemnify the claimants. Yet the claimants, if defeated in this suit, when they sue the charterers
for indemnity may be again defeated through the difference
in the proofs; and the libellants, if defeated here, may again
sue the charterers. If the charterers admitted their obligation to indemnify the claimants for the results of the present
action, or if there were any express contract imposing this
voL cLV-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

obligation on them, the need of such an order as the present
would be less, since notice to the charterers of the pendency
of this action, and an opportunity to defend it, would bind
them by the result,

though this would not prevent

.

.

.

the injustice to the shipowners of being compelled to pay the
damages on the charterers' contract before the latter were
called on for payment.
"The charterers, however, do not admit their liability to
indemnify the shipowners. There is no express contract
covering the point. The obligation of the charterers to indemnify is directly involved in the question to be tried in this
suit, viz., whether charterers agreed to supply the tackle,
and depends on the same evidence. The charterers, if not
made parties now, might litigate the same question anew in
any subsequent suit.

.

.

.

Under the former practice in

equity, the charterers would be brought -inas defendants as
a matter of course. Under the present practice in England,
since 1873, the introduction of third persons in such cases is
in the ordinary course of procedure, even in common law
suits."
Many cases under the English Judicature Act were cited,
and the practice in countries deriving their procedure from
the civil law examined in the light of authority.
In the case at bar the bill of lading, under which the cargo
described in the libel was transported, was the contract of
the New York and Porto Rico Steamship Company and not the
contract of the shipowners. It was issued in virtue of authority
conferred by the charter party, and the charter party was
alleged in the petition to be the basis of the claim made by
the shipowners to receive indemnity for any sum they might
-be compelled to pay by reason of the charterers' negligence
in and about the transportation of the cargo.
The District Court had jurisdiction over subject-matter and
parties so far as the libel was concerned, and if, after decree
thereon against the shipowners, the latter had brought suit
against the charterers to recover from them, under the provisions of the charter party, the damages the shipowners had
been compelled to pay, or if libellants had originally pro-

IN RE NEW YORK &c. STEAMSHIP CO., Petitioner. 531
Opinion of the Court.

ceeded against the charterers in personam for breach of the
implied or expressed obligations of the bill of lading, the District Court would have had jurisdiction.
In this instance, the District Court saw fit to adopt the
practice, which would have obtained in equity, of bringing all
the parties in and trying the whole matter at once, and we
are asked to prohibit that court from so proceeding on the
ground of want of jurisdiction thus to implead the charterers.
We have recently thus stated the principles applicable to
the issue of the writ of prohibition, in In re Rice, ante, 396:
"Where it appears that the court, whose action is sought to
be prohibited, has clearly no jurisdiction of the cause originally, or of some collateral matter arising therein, a party
who has objected to the jurisdiction at the outset and has no
other remedy is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter
of right. But where there is another legal remedy-by appeal
or otherwise, or where the question of the jurisdiction of the
court is doubtful, or depends on facts which are not made matter of record, or where the application is made by a stranger,
the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary. Nor is
the granting of the writ obligatory where the case has gone
to sentence, and the want of jurisdiction does not appear upon
the face of the proceedings. Smith v. Whitney, 116 U. S. 167,
173; In re Cooper, 143 U. S. 472, 495."
Without reviewing the action of the District Court on its
merits, it certainly cannot be said that that court was clearly
without jurisdiction, or that petitioners were without other
remedy; for in the event of a decree against them, they could
appeal directly to this court on the question of jurisdiction,
or to the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the whole case, and
that court might certify the question to this court for decision.
Exyarte Morrison,147 U. S. 114, 126; U ited tates v. Jahn,

155 U. S. 109.
And the case is far from being one in which we should
regard it as a proper exercise of discretion to interfere with
the orderly progress of the suit below by the issue of this
writ. The D strict Court, having general jurisdiction over
the subject-matter'and over the parties, should be allowed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

proceed to decision, and if error has been committed in entertaining the claimants' contention against the charterers in the
same suit with the libel against the ship, it may be corrected
on appeal. In re Fassett, Petitioner, 142 U. S. 479, 484;
-Moranv. Sturges, 154: U. S. 256, 286.
Writ of pro~ibitiondenied.

COOPEIR v. NEWELL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 129.

Submitted December 18, 1894.-Decided Janimry 7,1895.

Horne v. George.

Hammond Co., 155 U. S. 393, aflrmed and applied.

TREsPASs to try title.

The premises in dispute were alleged

in the plaintiff's petition to be "of the value of fifty thousand
dollars." The allegations therein respecting the citizenship of
the parties were as follows: "The petition of Stewart Newell,
a resident citizen of the city of New York, in the State of
New York, hereinafter styled plaintiff, complaining of Eliza
Cooper, B. P. Cooper, and Fannie Westrope, all residents of
Galveston County, in the State of Texas, and hereinafter styled
defendants." No other allegations on this point were made
below, and no question of jurisdiction was raised there. Verdict and judgment for plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ
of error. In his brief, filed in this court, the counsel for the
plaintiffs in error said: " We here assign, as ground for
reversal, the further error that- the court had no jurisdiction of the cause, in that the citizenship of the defendants is
not disclosed by the record. The petition complains of
defendants ' all residents of Galveston County, in the State of
Texas.' Nothing further on the subject is reflected by the
record."
.Afr. F. CAarles Hume for plaintiffs in error.

