UNITED STATES v. GUNNISON.
Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. GUNNISON.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 484.

Submitted December 8, 1894.-Decided December 17, 1894.

G. was a shipping commissioner at Mobile from June, 1889, to February, 1890.
In November, 1889, the Secretary of the Treasury notified him that his
-compensation Would thereafter be at a sum not exceeding $100 in any
one month, and that no pay additional to that compensation would be
allowed him for his services. In December, 1889, January, 1890, and
February, 1890, each, he rendered an account claiming .25 in each month
for salary of a clerk, payment of which being refused, he brought this.
action. Held, that he was not entitled to recover.

THE appellee sued in the court below to recover certain fees
and clerk hire which he claimed to be due for services rendered
as shipping commissioner at the port of Mobile from June 18,
1889, to February, 1890. The claim was for $1607 and costs.
There was judgment below in his favor for $75, being $25 a
month for clerk hire during the months of December, 1889,
and January and February, 1890. From this judgment the
United States appealed.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge and .Mr.Samuel A.
Putnam for appellants.
Mr. George A. King for appellee.
My-

JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion of the court.

The findings of fact in the court below were as follows:
"I. The claimant was a shipping commissioner at the port
of Mobile, Ala.
"During the term of his service he made a detailed report
monthly to the Secretary of the Treasury of his services and
the fees provided by law, with a full, exact, and itemized
account of receipts and expenditures.
"For the ,months of December, 18S9, and January and
February, 1890, his returns were as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
Fees provided by law.

December, 1889, paid salary of clerk, $25 .......... $262 75
January, 1890, paid salary of clerk, $25 ............ 311 75
February, 1890, paid salary of clerk, $25 .......... 284 50
"On each of said accounts the Secretary made and signed
the following endorsement:
"'Approved in the sum of one hundred dollars, ($100,) and
respectfully referred to the First Auditor, who will please
state an account in favor of the U. S. shipping commissioner
for the amount found due, payable from the appropriation for
"Salaries, shipping service."
"'The services enumerated within appear to have been
necessarily rendered.'
"The account was stated by the Auditor, admitted and
certified by the Comptroller, and paid to claimant in accordance therewith, except that the services of the clerk were
wh6lly omitted from the account.
"II. Previously to that time the Secretary of the Treasury
had fixed the compensation of said claimant not to exceed the
sum of $100 a month by a letter addressed to him, as follows:
" I WASHINGToN,

D. C., November 23, 1889.

",U. S. Shipping Commissioner, Moblile, Ala.
"'SIR: From and after the 1st proximo the compensation
allowed you under section 1 of the act of June 19, 1886, will
not exceed the sum of one hundred dollars ($100) in any one
month. If the services performed by you in any month do
not warrant the payment of one hundred dollars under the
existing regulations, your compensation for that month will
remain as heretofore fixed. No pay additional to the monthly
compensation herein mentioned will be allowed for your services as shipping commissioner.
"'Respectfully yours,
"' C. S. FAIRCHILD, Secretary."'
The law governing the compensation of shipping commissioners is found in the Act of June 26, 1884, c. 121, ยง 27, 23
Stat. 53, 59, and of June 19, 1886,'c. 421, ยง 1, 24 Stat. 79. By

UNITED STATES v. GUNNISON.
Opinion of the Court.

the first of these statutes (that of June 1884) it is provided
that"Shipping commissioners shall monthly render a full, exact,
and itemized account of their receipts and expenditures to the
Secretary of the Treasury, who shall determine their compensation, and shall, from time to time, determine the number
and compensation of the clerks appointed by such commissioner, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
subject to the limitations now fixed by law."
And also that"All fees of shipping commissioners shall be paid into the
Treasury of the United States, and shall constitute a fund
which.shall be used under the direction of the Secretary of
the Treasury to pay the compensation of said commissioners
and their clerks, and such other expenses as he may find necessary to insure the proper administration of their duties."
By the second statute (June 19, 1886) it is provided that "Shipping commissioners who are paid wholly or partly by
fees shall make a detailed report of such services and the fees
provided by law to the Secretary of the Treasury, under such
regulations as that officer may prescribe; and the Secretary
of the Treasury shall allow and pay from any money in the
Treasury, not otherwise appropriated, said officers such compensation for said services as each would have received prior
to the passage of this act; also such compensation to clerks
of shipping commissioners as would have been paid them had
this act not passed: Provided, That such services have, in
the opinion of the Secretary of the Treasury, been necessarily
rendered."
We think it clear that the right of a shipping commissioner
to employ clerks under these provisions depends on the sanction of the Secretary of the Treasury. Indeed, the act of
1884 expressly so says. The act of 1886, while making some
changes as to the method of compensating the commissioners,
specifically provides that the clerks of such commissioners
shall receive such compensation as would have been paid to
them if that act had not passed. If the last act did not
repeal the act of 1884, the plaintiff could not recover without

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the endorsement of the Secretary of the Treasury, since that
act gives him the right to determine the number and the coinpensation of clerks to be appointed by the commissioner. If
the act of 1884 was repealed by the act of 1886, the plaintiff
was equally without the right to recover clerk hire, because
under the act of 1886 the amount of compensation to be paid
to the commissioner or his clerk depends altogether on the
judgment' of the Secretary of the Treasury, who is required
by that act to certify that such services appeared to have been
necessarily rendered.
The Secretary formally notified the shipping commissioner
in November, 1889, previous to the month for which clerk
hire was claimed, that his compensation would be limited to
$100 per month, and that no additional compensation would
be allowed. When the vouchers were presented, including
the items of clerk hire, the Secretary approved them only for
$100 per mouth. This allowance necessarily excluded the
clerk hire.
The court below based its ruling upon the fact that, in
approving the vouchers up to the amount of $100, the Secretary made the statement that "the services enumerated appear
to have been necessarily rendered." But this language of the
Secretary was that which the statute required him to use in
affixing his approval. As he only approved up to $100, which
excluded the clerk's pay, the language must necessarily be
applied only to the services which he approved, and not to
those which he disapproved. To hold otherwise would be to
say that, although the Secretary rejected the items for clerk
hire, he yet approved them. The error below results from
considering the Secretary's certificate as referring to other
services than those which he approved.
Judgment reversed, and case remanded with directions to
render judgment for the United States.

