OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

lant or plaintiff in error shall prosecute his appeal or writ of
error with effect, and shall pay all the costs which have accrued
in the court below, or which may accrue in the appellate court."
Rev. Stat. Arizona, 1887, c. 20.
The motion was sustained upon that ground, the appeal dismissed with costs, and Swan, trustee, brought the case to this
court.
-Mr.A. T. Britton and il[r. A. B. Browne for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
THE OCriEF JUSTIcE : The alleged bond had no obligees, and
was not conditioned according to law. No application to file
a sufficient bond was made. The Supreme Court of Arizona
did not err in dismissing the appeal, and its judgment is

Aftirmed.

In re RICE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted December 3, 1894.

Decided December 1, 1894.

A party is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of right where it
appears that the court whose action is sought to be prohibited had
clearly no jurisdiction of the cause originally, or of some collateral
matter arising therein, and that he objected to the jurisdiction at the
outset, and has no other remedy.
But where there is another remedy, by appeal or otherwise, or where the
question of the jurisdiction of the court is doubtful or depends on facts
which are not made matter of record, or where the application is made
by a stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary; and
it is not obligatory where the case has gone to sentence, and the want
of jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the proceedings.
A writ of man lamus cannot be issued to compel the court below to decide
a matter before it in a particular way, or to review its judical action
had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction:
A writ of mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal or
writ of error, even if no appeal or writ of error is given by law.
The fact that, in the administration of the assets of an insolvent corporation
in the custody of receivers, summary proceedings are resorted to, does

IN RE RICE, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.
not, in itself, affect the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, as having proceeded in excess of its powers, and, where notice has'been given and
hearing had, the result cannot properly be interfered with by mandamus.

RECEIVERS of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad and
Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron Companies were appointed February 20, 1S93, by the Circuit Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, upon a bill for foreclosure filed by a
holder of third preference income bonds of those companies.
Leave was subsequently granted the receivers to issue certificates for the purpose of paying wages and other preferred
claims. The receivers and the railroad company filed a
petition September 25, 1894, for authority to enter into an
agreement for the partial readjustment of the affairs of the
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad and Coal and Iron Coinpanies, and to make the payments therein provided, if the
plan were carried into effect. The Circuit Court ordered
that the petition should be heard on October 15, 1894, at ten
o'clock A.M., and that notice of the hearing should be given
by advertisement in newspapers published in New York, Philadelphia, and in the London Times. At the time appointed
the hearing was begun, but could not be completed by reason
of the pressure of trial business, and the court suggested that,
to avoid delay and in relief of counsel, some of whom were
not residents of Philadelphia, the petition might be referred
to a special master, and that the arguments in the master's
office might be stenographically reported, and would be considered on the coming in of the master's report as if they had
been made in court. This suggestion was accepted, and thereupon the order of reference was made, and the master subsequently filed his report, including the argunents as taken
dovni at length. Application was made for a further hearing
which, was denied, the report of the master confirmed, and
the ordr prayed for in the petition entered.
The report of the master stated that the companies "have
outstanding prior general mortgage bonds, amounting to
$44,491,188.77, bearing four per cent interest, maturing semiannually, January and July 1st, which for the past eighteen
mopths is in arrear and unpaid. The receivers, under an order

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

made July 6th, 1893, authorizing them to issue receivers'
certificates, have issued them to the amount of $3,640,000.
The Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company also owe
other general, well-secured indebtedness to the amount of
$3,843,000, and further indebtedness, with interest, aggregating $7,533,000, for necessary equipment, for which a large
part of the value thereof has been paid, leaving a valuable
equity of the company therein over the said debt therefor.
The receivers, upon the payment of the said secured general
indebtedness, will have $10,000,000 of 5 per cent collateral
trust gold bonds of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad
Company, secured by stocks and bonds of its associated companies, which are a valuable and necessary part of its system,
to dispose of for payment of the said classes of indebtedness,
which, by reason of priority of liens, or value of securities
pledged therefor, are entitled to a preference in the disposition
of the proceeds of the said collateral trust bonds, over other
indebtedness of the company. Some of the said general mortgage bondholders have combined to enforce foreclosure of
their mortgage, under due legal proceedings."
The report then set forth the proposed plan of readjustment
which, in brief, provided for the purchase of the overdue and
maturing coupons of the general mortgage bonds of the
Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company and an extension- of the time of payment for ten years from the date of
each purchase, and for the sale of ten million five per cent
collateral trust bonds to the stockholders and junior bondholders of the company at par. Such stockholders and bondholders as were unable or unwilling to purchase the bonds at
par were given the privilege of making a cash contribution,
by way of a gift, of three million dollars, -and in that event
a syndicate had been formed to take and pay for the bonds
the sum of seven million dollars. In case the plan should
become effective, and only upon that condition, the receivers
were to pay the purchasers of the coupons, who were to extend them for ten years, a commission of two and one-half per
cent, and to the purchasers of the collateral trust bonds a
like commission of two and -one-half per cent. If the plan

IN RE RICE, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

were carried into effect, the company would obtain an extension upon its general mortgage bonds of ten years, and sell
ten million of its collateral trust bonds at par, for whether the
stockholders and junior security holders purchased and paid
for the bonds themselves at par, or the syndicate should take
them at seventy per cent and the stockholders and junior
bondholders paid the remaining thirty per cent as a cash
donation, the result would be the same.
The plan also provided for the creation of a voting trust
whereby the right of the stockholders to elect six managers
and the president under the charter of the company. was
distributed among the general mortgage bondholders, the
income bondholders, and the stockholders, under a system of
registration of the bonds.
The readjustment agreement was to be taken in connection
with a previous' agreement between the general mortgage
bondholders in respect of foreclosure, and it is averred that
since the order complained of was- entered, sufficient of the
general mortgage bonds have been deposited to enable foreclosure to go forward if the readjustment plan should fail,
and reorganization to be reached in that way.
The master said: "In any event, whether of success of the
scheme, or of foreclosure, because of the priority of the lien
of the coupons and interest of the general mortgage bonds,
and the receivers' certificates and the salvage of the securities
pledged for the secured indebtedness and of the equipment,
the debts which are proposed to be paid out of the said
moneys to be raised, would be payable out of the proceeds
of the collateral trust bonds and their security, in preference
to the income mortgage bondholders, unsecured general inThe coupons of the general
debtedness and stockholders.
mortgage bonds carry 6 per cent interest from their maturity. Too small a part of those bonds are registered to
'warrant a discrimination against the small amount of interest thereon, which will not carry interest from maturity.
The counsel for the receivers state that the equipment and the
other well-secured obligations proposed to be paid also carry
6 per cent interest. The collateral trust bonds proposed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

be sold carry 5 per cent interest. No substantial offer of
better prices for the assets proposed to be sold in this plan was
made, much less in the mode required by courts from parties
opposing the consummation of judicial sales, in security for a
substantial better price."
The master found that the commissions provided for were
not unreasonable; that it was not probable that, under a fore-closure, the collateral trust bonds or their security would produce more; that it was the duty of the receivers to pay or
provide for the interest upon the general mortgage bonds to
avoid foreclosure; that an investigation of the causes of the
fact that the receivers had not the means to pay the present
default upon the general mortgage interest, or the other pressing indebtedness, would not aid in the consideration of the
present duty of the court and receivers; that the action asked
of the court was entirely for the administration of certain
assets in the receivers' hands for the payment of pressing
debts, and the authority to the receivers and company was
to be granted contingently upon the subsequent approval of
the security holders and stockholders, all the parties in interest; that under the petition there was no question of rival
plans of organization ; that there was no other scheme pending
to avoid the impending foreclosure; and that the receivers
were not actiug or asking for authority otherwise than with
strict impartiality to the several interests involved, while the
refusal of the prayer of the petition "would aid its opponents in depriving the whole body of the rest of the security
holders and stockholders, of the opportunity of approving
and consummating the scheme." ie concluded that the granting of the prayer of the petition would not probably be misundeistood by the parties in interest, and even if it were, that
fact, -r that they would thereby authorize foreclosure, if the
plan proved unsuccessful, should not prevent the action of the
court otherwise proper; that although the plan disposed of a
large amount of the assets, this was not unadvisable, as it also
disposed of a commercially equal amount of indebtedness,
which would in any event absorb the proceeds of those, or an
equal amount of other assets; that any lien not before the

IN RE RIOE, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

court or charter rights would not be affected without the consent of those interested, (I unless of a very small minority,
whose rights would be necessarily entirely protected in the
usual manner in such cases;" "that the provisions for commissions are only an element of the net price to be obtained
for the assets to be disposed of, and do not impair the obligation of the income mortgages;" that certain provisions of the
plan for a voting trust were not invalid and furnished no
ground of objection to the granting of the prayer; and that
a full accounting or statement of all the affairs of the company was not necessary for the proper consideration of the
questions involved.
The Circuit Court, in granting the application and entering
the order prayed for, observed: "The order now to be made
does not approve the proposed plan of reorganization, nor is
either approval -or disapproval thereof to be implied from it.
The question of the wisdom and expediency of adopting any
such scheme is for solution and determination by the persons
interested, and no attempt to coerce their judgment or control
their action should be made either by the court or the receivers. But nothing of that sort is involved in the authority
now asked and given. It imposes no constraint, but leaves
those who have the right to accept or to reject the plan
referred to wholly free to do the one or the other, as they
may see fit. It sanctions the raising of money by rightful
.means upon reasonable terms and for proper objects, and it is
not a valid ground of objection to it that it also renders feasible, in case of due acceptance, the only reorganization project
which is known to exist. The receivers should not enlist on
either side in conflicts amongst those interested in the property they have in charge, but the neutrality, which it is their
duty to observe, is not departed from by facilitating any plan
which may be proposed for the general benefit, provided,
that to all alike, and with regard to every plan advanced in
good faith, the same facilities be indifferently accorded ; and
the court, whilst it will not pass upon the comparative merits
of rival schemes of reorganization, will regard with satisfaction
any and every legitimate effort to terminate this receivership."
VOL. cLv-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner subsequently made application to the Circuit
Court to set aside the decretal order upon the receivers' and
companies' petition, and for leave to file a demurrer, plea, and
answer to that petition; and that if the demurrer or plea
should be overruled, a reference be had, and evidence adduced
for and against the proposed action, and for a stay in the
meantime; and, in the alternative, that the decretal order be
opened with leave to petitioner to file, nunc pro tune, such
demurrer, plea, or answer, and with leave to file, nunc _pro
tune, exceptions to the master's report upon the ground that
such proceedings had been had and decree made without
regard to the rules and regulations of practice; and for general relief ; which application the Circuit Court denied.
Petitioner thereupon applied to this court for leave to file a
petition'for a writ of prohibition to prohibit the Circuit Judge
from further proceeding upon .the petition of the receivers,
and from enforcing or carrying out the decree thereunder;
and for a writ of mandamus directing the Circuit Judge to
cause securities, deposited under the proposed plan, to be returned to their owners, and to restore the parties to their
original positions, or to vacate the decree and require the
parties in interest to be brought in, and thereafter to proceed
according to the rules and forms of law for such cases made
and provided.
.Mr. -NathanBijur for petitioner.
ir. Thomas -Hart,Jr., and -Mr. Samuel D)iceson, opposing.
MR. CHIF JusTcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
Without discussing the various matters urgedupon our attention by counsel for the petitioner, it is sufficient to say that
we are of opinion that the leave asked for cannot be granted.
1. Where it appears that the court whose action is sought
to be prohibited has clearly no jurisdiction of the cause originally, or of some collateral matter arising therein, a party
who has objected to the jurisdiction at the outset and has no
other remedy is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter

IN RE RICE, Petitioner.
Opinion of the Court.

of right. But where there is another legal remedy by appeal
or otherwise, or where the question of the jurisdiction of the
court is doubtful, or depends on facts which are not made
matter of record, or where the application is made by a
stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary.
Nor is the granting of the writ obligatory where the case has
gone to sentence, and the want of jurisdictioli does not appear
upon the face of the proceedings. &mith v. WPitney, 116
U. S. 167, 173 ; In re Qooper, 143 U. S. 472, 495. Tested by
these rules, we are clear that a proper case is not made for
awarding the writ of prohibition.
2. The writ of mandamus cannot be issued to compel the
court below to decide a matter before it in a particular way,
or to review its judicial action had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction. The writ cannot be used to perform the
office of an appeal or writ of error, even if no appeal or writ
of error is given by law. American ConstructionCompany v.
Jac7onville Railway, 148 U. S. 372, 379.
The Circuit Court has proceeded to judgment in the premises,
and we cannot revise and reverse its decision by resort to this
writ in the manner proposed, nor can we command it to
adjudicate upon the rights of parties not before it, by directing it to cause securities which may have been deposited to. be
returned to their owners, and to restore the parties to their
original positions. Still less can we direct the hearing of
further argument, because counsel may consider that the
opportunity for the expression of his views and the presentation of objections has not been as ample as in his opinion
should have been afforded. The mere fact that, in the administration of the assets of an insolvent corporation in the
custody of receivers, summary proceedings are resorted to,
does not in itself affect the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
as having proceeded in excess of its powers, and, where notice
has been given and hearing had, the result cannot properly be
interfered with by mandamus. Exparte Parsons,150 U. S.150.
We perceive no ground for the extraordinary interposition
of this court by the issue of dither of the writs applied for.
Leave denied.

