COUPE v. ROYEE.
Syllabus.

the Fidelity and its agents was complete at the time of the
failure.
It is unnecessary, in this case, to consider what would be
the rights of the parties if a settlement between the defendant
and the Fidelity Bank had been consummated while the latter
was actually engaged in business, although in fact insolvent;
for, as stated, no action was taken by the defendant until
after-the Fidelity had stopped business, and Was in possession
of the officers of the law. The mere fact that news of the
condition of the Fidelity had not reached the defendant at
the time it made this entry is immaterial. The condition of
insolvency was "disclosed" because it was known to the
officers of the law, and action had been taken by them in
consequence thereof, and that is all that is necessary. We
think the conclusions of the Circuit Court were correct, and
its judgment is
Affirmed.

COUPE v. ROYER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 53. Argued November 7,189.-Declded January 7,1895.

In letters patent No. 77,920, granted to Herman Royer and Louis Royer, May
f2, 1868, for "an improved machine for treating hides," the first claim,
viz., for "a vertical shaft," and the second claim, viz., for a " grooved
weight," are restricted to a shaft and crib in a vertical position, and to a
weight operating by the force of gravity aided by pressure; and they
cannot be extended so as to include shafts and cribs in a horizontal
position,.and pressure upon the hides by means of false fieads,-actuated
and controlled by gearing wheels, springs, and a crank.
In jury trials in actions for the infringement of letters patent, it is the province of the court, when the defence denies that the invention used by
the defendant is identical with that included In the .plaintiff's patent, to
define the patented invention, as indicated by the language of the claims;
and it is the province of the jury to determine whether the invention so
defined covers the art or article employed by the defendant.
The measure of recovery in a suit in equity for such ihfringement is the
gains and profits made 6y- the infringer, and such further damage as the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
proof Ah6wvs that the complainant sustained in addition to such gains and
profits; but in an action at law the damages are measured only by the
extent of the plaintiffs loss, as proved by the evidence, and, when the
evidence discloses the existence of no license fee, no impairment of
the plaintiffs market, no damages of any kind, the jury should be instructed, if they'find for the plaintiff, to find nominal damages only.

Tins was an action of trespass on the case, brought in

October, 1889, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts, by Herman and Louis Royer
against William Coupe and Edwin A. Burgess for an alleged
infringement of letters patent of the United States, No. 77,920,
dated May 12, 1868, for an "improved machine for treating
hides."
The patent expired on May 12, 1885, and this suit was
entered July 14, 1885. The trial resulted, on November 10,
1886, in a verdict for the plaintiffs in the sum of $18,000, and
judgment was entered, on November 26, 1889, for the sum of
$21,288 damages and $164.25 costs.
The defendants below sued out a writ of error to this court.
-Mr. ilmarthH. Thurstom and Mr. Edmund IFetmore for
plaintiffs in error.
-Mr. -I. A. lheaton,(with whom was -Mr.F. J. Jierce on
the brief,) for defendants in error.
MR.JUSTiCE SHIRAS,

after stating the case as above, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs describe their invention as a new and improved machine for converting raw hides into leather, of
that class which is used for belting, lacings, and other purposes where it is necessary to preserve the native strength
and toughness without destroying or impairing the natural
fibres or grain of the leather.
The machine is composed of a vertical slotted shaft provided with set-screws, which said shaft is capable of being
revolved, by suitable mechanism, first in one direction and
then in the other; a circularly-arranged set of pins or rollers
set in rings or fixed heads, the same constituting a vertical

COUPE v. ROYER.

-

Opinion of the Court.

cylindrical cage or crib surrounding the vertical slotted shaft;
and a weight adapted to be inserted within the crib or cage
at its upper end, said weight being provided with a central
aperture for the passage of the upper end of the vertical
slotted shaft.
The specification, claims, and drawings appear at full length
in the report of the case of Royer v. Schultz Belting Comnany,
135 U. S. 319, and need not be reproduced here.
The operation of the machine is described in the specification as follows: "The end of the raw hide to be softened is
inserted in the slot of the vertical shaft and champed therein
by the set-screws. The shaft is then revolved and the hide is
wound tightly upon said shaft, forming a roll or coil thereon,
and being held in this form by the surrounding cylindrical
cage. After the hide has been thus wound upon the shaft,
the shaft is revolved in the opposite direction, which has the
effect to rewind or recoil the hide upon the shaft in a reverse
direction, this reverse winding commencing at the inner end
of the coil, the outer circumference of the coil being pressed
against the pins or rollers of the surrounding cage. This
winding and rewinding of the hide upon the shaft is repeated as many times as may be desired."
The function of the weight is twice described in the specification, as follows: "An iron weight or press is employed for
crowding the coil of hide down after it has received the forward and back action around the shaft," and "an iron weight,
having an opening through its centre for the vertical shaft,
and vertical grooves in it to prevent its turning, is placed upon
the inside of the pins or rollers, and by pressing upon this
weight, the hide is compressed edgewise,, after the forward
and backward stretching or pressing is yerformed lengthwise."
One of the matters in dispute in the case is whether the
weight is to operate during the winding and rewinding of the
hides, or after the revolving of the shaft has ceased. The language of the specifidation, just cited, does not seem to describe
the operation of the weight as cotemporaneous with the winding process, but as successive. Herman Royer, one of the patentees, testified that the weight is to operate while the cylindri-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

cal shaft is revolving, and that its use is to regulate or confine
the space in which the hides have to move forward and backward.
We are willing to assume, in our disposition of this case,
the correctness of the plaintiffs' contention in this particular,
and we shall also accept as indisputable the testimony of Herman Royer, that "the machine without the pressure would
not effect such a motion and heat as are necessary to loosen
the fibres of the hide. It would not work any effect. The
machine would be a failure without the weight."
It was further made to appear that, as early as 1863, Louis
Royer, one of the patentees, had produced a machine for the
purpose of treating hides, the characteristics of which were
thus described in the testimony of Herman Royer: "The
machine had a horizontal crib; it had a shaft cehtral through
its axis; it had bars circularly arranged around that central
shaft; it had the same kind of motion to the right or left as
the patented machine ; it had everything that is in the present machine except the pressure weight." And on crossexamination the following questions and answers appear:
"Now, when you and your brother came to the joint business
of improving the machine you turned it from a horizontal
position to a vertical position, did you not?" Answer. "Yes,
sir." "And in that connection you used the weight so that
the weight would press down by gravity upon the hides
inside the crib; is that correct?" Answer. "The weight
and pressure applied to the weight; yes, sir."
The plaintiffs also put in evidence a model of the defendants' machine, and testimony tending to show that defendants' machine consists of a horizontal shaft around which,
when in operation, the hides are woilnd and unwound, of a
horizontal crib or cage enclosing the shaft, and of two parts
termed " false heads," connected together and adapted to be
simultaneously moved toward or from each other, by means
of right and left hand screws arranged one at each side of the
crib, ant engaging with traversing nuts connected with the
false heads and with two gear-wheels which intermesh with a
third gear-wheel mounted so as to turn loosely on the centre

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

shaft, said third gear-wheel being provided with a Crank, so
that by simply turning this crank gear-wheel in one direction
or the other, the two false heads will be moved from or
towards each other, and so as to diminish or increase the
space for holding the coil of hides during the operation of the
machine.
The defendants gave evidence tending to show that a
machine made in conformity with plaintiffs' specifications and
claims would not operate as a successful machine, to which
the plaintiffs replied by evidence tending to show that a machine made after the description contained in the patent
would ahd did operate successfully.
Upon the foregoing state of the evidence, the defendants
requested the -court to charge the jury as follows:
"That the plaintiffs' patent and the claims thereof on its
face should be construed as requiring the presence, in the
combinations required therein, of a vertical shaft and a correspondingly arranged vertical crib, and that, as it appeared
from the evidence, and was undisputed that the machines
complained of as used by the defendants were provided with
horizontal shafts and horizontal cribs, the jury should return
a verdict for the defendants.
"That if they should find as a fact that the substitution by
the defendants of a horizontal shaft and a surrounding horizontal crib, in place of a verticalshaft and a surrounding vertical
crib, and the substitution of two end-pressure plates, arranged
to approach toward or recede from each other by a positive
movement, under the control of the operator, in place of the
single pressure weight described and shown in the plaintiffs'
patent, produced an effect different in kind from the effect
produced when a vertical crib and pressure weight is employed
in the operation of fulling hides, then it would be their duty
to find a verdict for the defendants.
"That a mechanical equivalent for a device shown in letters
patent is a thing which performs the same result in substantially the same way, or by substantially the same mode of
operation as the device described in the patent, and that if the
jury should find from the evidence in the cause that under

OCTOBER TERM, 1894Opinion of the Court.

this rule the pressure plates controlled as to their movements
and as to the degree of pressure to be exerted by them, by
right and left-hand screws, at the pleasure of the operator,
were not the equivalents, in a horizontal hide-fulling machine,
of the pressure weight in a vertical machine, then the jury
ought to find a verdict that the defendants do not infringe the
second claim of the plaintiffs' patent."
These requests the court answered as follows:
"You will come, however, gentlemen, to another and further
consideration, which you must determine upon the testimony
which is laid before you. In order to explain that, perhaps,
I ought to preface by saying what you are to take this patent
to mean; what it is, in brief terms, that it covers. In order
that I may biing my observations within the technical requirements, what is the interpretation which you are to put upon
this patent? This, gentlemen, is a patent, and the invention
of the plaintiffs is an invention which is to be described as
follows: It consists of a shaft which contains or has attached
to it means by which hides can be fastened to its periphery.
Around that shaft and leaving that shaft in the centre are
arranged a number of bars which shall contain the roll of
hides after it has been wrapped around the central shaft. In
the third place there is a plunger or false head or contracting
device, whatsoever you may call it,-a piece of metal or of
wood - which so moves as to reduce the space within which
the hides are contained for the purpose of squeezing them
sidewise. That is all there is in the machine, and any machine
which contains these elements is an infringement of the plaintiffs' device and is a violation of law. I need not say to you
that the defendants' machine is such a machine. It contains
a central shaft and a device for fastening hides to it. It has
other devices also for fastening other hides, but that constitutes no excuse for the use of the one single device for
fastening hides It has the bars surrounding the central shaft
and which confine the hides after they are wound about that
shaft. Those bars also have conveniences and means for adjusting them inwardly and outwardly. It also has a movable
head, which operates to reduce the space in which the hides

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

are, or, in more popular phrase, to squeeze the hides together,
and it also has another corresponding head on the other side,
two instead of one.
"There is one difference as to which there is other testimony and to which I have not made reference. There is a
difference in the position of the attitude of the machines. One
of them is said to be vertical and one of them is said to be
horizontal. One of them, as it might be said, stands upright
and the other lies down on its side. Now, from that change
which the defendant Coupe made, taking this" (the plaintiffs')
"machine (for, as I say, we assume that he knew of the existence of it) and conceiving it to be an advantage to lay it down
on its side, to make it horizontal instead of -vertical, it followed
that there mugt be a change made in the operation of the
head or plunger which pressed the hides, becaus6" when it
stood upright it would remain in its place by its own weight.
If it was laid down on its side the weight would be likely to
fall out of its place, and the weight of the plunger itself might
be an inconvenience instead of a convenience in the operation.
It was, therefore, necessary if this machine was to be changed
into a horizontal machine, or if, to speak more accurately, the
attitude of the mechanism was to be changed, it was necessary
to make a different device for the purpose of compressing the
hides. That is done in a very simple and ingenious way here
by using a comparatively thin false head or plunger and moving it by a screw which moves it forward and back as may be
required. Those two changes, therefore, go together, as it
were -one is consequence of the other, and they form the
most obvious difference to the eye between the two machines.
Regarding that change this claim is made by the defendant:
He claims that the change results in a radically different
method of operation of the two machines. To state it in the
language used in the patent law, he claims that there is a
difference of function, which means simply that there is ;,
difference in the manner and result of the operation of tle
two machines caused by laying one of them on its side. Ybu
are not to assume, gentlemen, that that is not possible. The
change is slight in its general aspect. There is no change in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the structure of the machine-it is simply a change in the
attitude of the machines in relation to the plane of the horizon.
Nevertheless, you are to consider that changes smaller than
that have sometimes resulted in very large differences in the
method of operation. You must, therefore, with unprejudiced
minds enter upon the consideration of the question, when you
retire to your room, whether there be any difference in the
operation of these two machines, the one standing vertical or
erect, the other standing horizontal or lying upon its side.
"Now, what is the nature of the difference which the
defendant claims? He claims that the difference is this:
that the machine in a horizontal position will break the hides
so that they can be used for useful purposes in the arits, and
that the machine standing in a vertical position will not accomplish this work. To use his phrase, the phrase of the
patent law, the machine is not operative; or, to use a phrase
equally accurate and perhaps more easily comprehended, that
this machine will not do the work which it is appointed to do.
If that be so, gentlemen, there is not only a radical difference
in operation, but there is evidently a defect in the original
patent, so that if that claim made by him is true he has two
defences, either one of which is a sufficient answer to this
case -that is to say, while the machine described by the plaintiff as being a vertical machine will include horizontal machines also, and while it is true that a horizontal machine will
infringe this patent for a vertical machine if it appears that
the operation of the machine is substantially the same in the
ond position or the other; on the other hand, you will understand that if it appears that a horizontal machine will work
and is operative, and that a vertical machine will not work
and is not operative, then you must confine the plaintiff to
that interpretation and meaning of his patent which confines
him to vertical machines alone.
"It is not necessary for me to elaborate the legal principle
contained in this. It would not interest you, and perhaps
would tend Tather to confuse than to elucidate what I have
to say, and I therefore make one statement which, for practical purposes, for your purposes, covers the whole question.

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

If you find*that a machine made with this shaft, crib, and
weight, and. standing so that the shaft is vertical -that is to
say, is upright, will not break hides, will not do the work
which it is expected to do - then, in that case, the defendant
is entitled to your verdict. If you find that it will do that
work, then the plaintiff is entitled to your verdict so far as
this question is concerned. You are hot to consider, gentlemen, which does it the best; you are not to choose betweeni the
two machines; you are not to consider whether one machine
makes more trouble than the other, whether one makes work
more uniform than the other and more desirable in the market,
whether one is better able to perform the work, whether one
does it with a less amount of power, whether it is easier in
one to load or to unload than in the other, whether the
machine is more under the control of the operator in one
case than in the other, or whether the crib in one case is
more adjustable than in the other. These considerations are
of no consequence. To put it more shortly, the question to
be determined by you is not which of these machines is the
better machine, but simply and solely, will a machine made
with a vertical shaft do the work at all? Now, as to that,
you must consider the large amount of testimony that has
gone in here?'
The definition thus put upon the plaintiffs' patent was the
following: "It consists of a shaft which contains or has
attached to it means by which hides can be fastened to its
periphery. Around that- shaft and leaving that shaft in the
centre are arranged a number of bars which shall contain the
roll of hides after it has been wrapped around the central
shaft. In the third place there is a plunger or false head, or
-contracting device, whatsoever you may call it -a piece of
metal or of wood - which so moves as to reduce the space
within which the hides are contained, for the purpose of
squeezing them sidewise2'
Having thus defined the plaintiffs' machine, the learned
judge added: "That is all there is in the machine, and any
machine which contains these elements is an infringement of
the plaintiffs' device, and is a violation of law. I need not

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

say to you that the defendants' machine is such a machine."
This instruction must have been understood by the jury as
peremptorily directing a verdict for the plaintiffs, so far as the
question of infringement was concerned.
It may be thought that the action of the court below, in
instructing the jury that, upon the court's construction of the
patent and upon the undisputed character of the defendant's
machine, the plaintiffs were entitled to the verdict, was inconsistent with its subsequent action, in which the jury were told
that "while the machine described by the plaintiffs as being
a vertical machine will include horizontal machines also, and
while it is true that a horizontal machine will infringe the
patent for a vertical machine if it appears that the operation
of the machine is substantially the same in the one position or
the other, on the other band, you will understand that if it
appears that a horizontal machine will work and is operative,
and that a vertical will not work and is not operative, then
you must confine the plaintiffs to that interpretation and
meaning of their patent which confine them to vertical machines alone. . . . If you find that a machine made with
this shaft, crib, and weight, and standing so that the shaft is
vertical -that is to say, is upright, will not break hides, will
not do the work which it is expected to do-then, in that case,
the defendant is entitled to your verdict. If you find that it
will do that work, then the plaintiff is entitled to your verdict, so far as this question is concerned. . . . To put it
more shortly, the question to be determined by you is not
which of these machines is the better machine, but, simply
and solely, will a machine made with a vertical shaft do the
work at all."
But this apparent inconsistency in the two instructions will
disappear if we understand the latter to be based on the suggestion that the plaintiffs' patent would be void if it were
without utility. A patented machine that will not do what it
is intended to do could not sustain an action against one who
was shown to use a successful and operative machine.
While we think that the learned judge was right, in regarding the case as one that depended on a construction of the

COUPE v.ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs' patent and on undisputed evidence of the character
of the defendants' machine, we yet think that he erred in his
definition of the plaintiffs' patent, and in withdrawing the
question of infringement from the jury.
The patent calls for, first, "a vertical rotary shaft, with
means by which hides can be fastened to its periphery:" The
learned judge's reading is, "that the invention consists of a
shaft with means by which hides can be fastened to it," omitting the term "vertical." The patent calls, in the second
place, for "a vertical frame or crib, with vertical pins or rollers." The instruction given was "there are arranged a number of bars which shall contain the roll of hides after it has
been wrapped around the central shaft;" again omitting the
term "vertical" in connection with the crib, the bars, and the
shaft. The plaintiffs' claim, thirdly, is for "an iron weight,
having an opening through its centre for the vertical shaft,
and vertical grooves in it to prevent its turning, which is
placed upon the inside of the pins or rollers, and, by pressing
upon this weight, the hide is compressed edgewise, after the
forward and backward stretching or pressing is performed
lengthwise." The definition given was: "In the third place,
there is a plunger, or false head, or contracting devide, whatsoever you may call it

-

a piece of metal or wood - which so

moves as to reduce the space within which the hides are contained for the purpose of squeezing them sidewise." This
definition again omits the referenceto the shaft as a vertical
one, and omits the.grooves described in the patent as vertical,
and erroneously describes what the patent calls "an iron
weight" as "a plunger or false head or contracting device,"
terms not used in the patent, but terms that are used in de9cribing defendants' machine. This part of the definition is
also faulty because it describes the weight as "so moving as
to reduce the space within which the hides are contained."
There is nothing said in the plaintiffs' patent about the weight
"moving" or "reducing the space in which the hides are contained," but such language is used to describe the operation of
the false heads in the defendants' machine. The function
attributed in the patent to this feature is evidently that of

OCTOBER TERif, 1894.

Opinion of the Court.

pressure by weight, and not that of moving to and fro, so as
to widen or narrow the path through which the hides are to
pass.
The importance attributed in the patent to the position of
the machine as a vertical one is seen in the fact that the term
"vertical" is used no less than ten times, while in the definition of the patent given by the learned judge to the jury the
word does not once appear.
That the iron weight and its function are important are
shown by the testimony of Herman Royer, wherein he stated
that the machine would be a failure without the weight.
The principle of construction which we think applicable to
the plaintiffs' patent is that such construction must be in conformity with the self-imposed limitations which are contained
in the claims. Such claims are the measure of their right to
relief.
Keystone Bridge Co. v. Pcnix Iron Co., 95 U. S. 274, 278,
was a case where the manufacture of -round bars, flattened
and drilled at the eye, for use in the lower chords of iron
bridges, was held not to be an infringement of a patent for an
improvement in such bridges, where the specification described
the patented invention as consisting in the use of wide and thin
drilled eve bars a5plied on edge; and Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It is plain, therefore,
that the defendant company, which does not make said bars
at all, [that is, wide and thin bars,] but round and cylindrical
bars, does not infringe this claim of the patent. When a
claim is so explicit, the courts cannot alter or enlarge it. If
the patentees have not claimed the whole of their invention,
and the omission has been the result of inadvertence, they
should have sought to correct the error by a surrender of their
patent and an application for a reissue.

.

.

.

But the courts

have no right to enlarge a patent beyond the scope of its claim
as allowed by the Patent. Office, or the appellate tribunal to
which contested applications are referred. "When the terms of
a claim in a patent are clear and distinct, (as they should
always be,) the patentee, in a suit brought upon the patent, is
bound by it.

.

He can claim nothing beyond-it."

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

So in Burns v. Meyer, 100 U. S. 671, 672, it was said:
"The courts should be careful not to enlarge by construction
the claims which the Patent Office has admitted, and .which
the patentee has acquiesced in, beyond the fair interpretation
of its terms." And in Xl-eClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419,
425, the principle we are considering was thus expressed:
"It is true that, in a case of dbubt, when the claim is fairly
susceptible of two constructions, that one will be adopted
which will preserve to the patentee his actual invention; but
if the language of the specification and claim shows clearly
what he desired to secure as a monopoly, nothing can be held
to be an infringement which does not fall within the terms
the patentee has himself chosen to express his invention."
The patentees in the present case having, therefore, chosen
to carefully restrict their claims for the shaft and crib to such
in a vertical position, and for the weight, to one operating by
the force of gravity, aided by pressure, the question to be
determined is, whether they can be permitted to extend their
claims so as to include shafts and cribsin a horizontal position, and pressure upon the hides by means of false heads,
actuated and controlled by gearing wheels, springs, and a
crank.
Whether, in thus choosing to-restrict themselves to a vertical machine, the patentees were influenced- by their knowledge that the prior machine of Louis Royer, which was a
horizontal one, had been a failure, or whether, what is more
likely, the necessity of adopting the vertical position in order
that the iron weight might operate by gravity and simple
pressure, dispensing with other instrumentalities, controlled
them, is matter of mere conjecture.
It remains only to consider whether the conclusion we have
thus reached, and which renders a new trial necessary, should
be given to the jury in the form-of a peremptory instructi6n,
or whether the question of infringement should be left to the
jury to pass on as one of fact.
This court has had occasion, more than once, to reverse the
triil courts for taking away from the jury the question of
infringement, which they have sometimes done by rejecting
voL. cLV -37

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence of earlier patents offered to show anticipation, and
sometimes by a peremptory instruction that a patent relied on
by the defence was or was not infringement of the plaintiff's
patent.
Thus in Tucker v. Spalding, 13 Wall. 453, 455, where an
action at law was brought to recover damages for the infringement of a patent for the use of movable teeth in saws,
anl where the defendant offered in evidence, as covering the
subject-matter of 'the plaintiff's patent, a patent prior in date
and invention to that of plaintiff, the action of the court
below in rejecting this offer of evidence because, in its judgment, the patent offered did not anticipate the one in suit,
was held to be erroneous by this court, and Mr. Justice Miller,
speaking for the court, used this language: "Whatever may
be our personal opinions of the fitness of the jury as a
tribunal to determine the diversity or identity in principle
of two mechanical instruments, it cannot be questioned that
when the plaintiff, in the exercise of the option which the
law gives him, brings his suit in the law in preference to the
equity side of the court, that question must be submitted to
the jury, if there is so much resemblance as raises the question
at all;" and reference was then made to the case of Bischoj
v. Wethered, 9 Wall. 812, 814, as one in which the subject had
been fully considered. In the case so referred to the subject
was discussed at length, including a review of the English
cases, and the conclusion reached was that, in a suit at law
involving a question of priority of invention, counsel cannot
require the court to compare the two specifications and to
instruct the jury, as matter of law, whether the inventions
therein described are or are not identical. In expressing the
views of the court, Mr. Justice Bradley said: "A case may
sometimes be so clear that the court may feel no need of an
expert to explain the terms of art or the descriptions contained in the respective patents, and may, therefore, feel
authorized to leave the question of identity to the jury, under
such general instructions as the nature of the documents
seems to rejuire. And in such plain cases the court would
probably feel authorized to set aside a verdict unsatisfactory

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Conrt.

to itself, as against the weight of evidence. But in all such
cases the question would still be treated as a question of fact
for the jury, and not as a question of law for the court."
In the case of Keyes v. Grant, 118 U. S. 25, 36, where the
defendant set up a prior publication of a machine anticipating
the patented invention, and where there appeared obvious differences between the two machines in the arrangement and
relation of the parts to each other, and where experts differed
upon the question whether those differences were material to
the result, and where the court below instructed the jury to
return a verdict for the defendants, this court, reversing the
judgment, said, through Mr. Justice Matthews: "Clearly it
was not a matter of law that the specifications of the plaintiff's
patent and the publication of Karsten, taken in connection
with the drawings appended in illustration, described the same
thing.

.

.

.

In our opinion this was a question of fact prop-

erly to be left for determination to the jury, under suitable
instructions from the court upon the rules of law, which should
guide them to their verdict."
And in the case of Boyer v. Schultz Belting Co., 135 U. S.
319, which arose upon an. alleged infringement of the same
patent here in suit, and where the question was chiefly to be
determined by a comparison of two machines, this court held
that the Circuit Court erred in not submitting to the jury the
question of infringement under proper instruction.
The doctrine of the cases is aptly expressed by Robinson in
his work on Patents, vol. 3, page 378, as follows: "Where the
defence denies that the invention used by the defendant is
identical with that included in the plaintiff's patent, the court
defines the patented invention as indicated by the language of
the claims; the jury judge whether the invention so defined
covers the art or article employed by the defendant."
We perceive no error in the comments of the learned judge
upon the question whether the plaintiffs' patent described a
practically useful machine.
Our conclusion upon this part of the case, therefore, is, that
the question of infringement, arising upon a comparison of the
Royer patent and the machine used by the defendants, should

OCTOBER TERMT, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

be submitted to the jury, with proper instructions as to the
nature and scope of the plaintiffs' patent as hereinbefore defined, and as to the character of the defendants' machine.
Besides the differences in the character and operation of the
two machines, arising out of their difference in position, and
out of the distinctive methods of compressing the hides while
undergoing treatment, there are other differences to which the
attention of the jury should be called. Thus itis claimed by the
defendants that with the slotted shaft of the patented machine
the hides can be attached at most at only two points upon the
periphery of the shaft, while in the defendants' machines the
hides may be attached at numerous points about the periphery
of the shaft. As a result of this difference, it is claimed that if
a number of hides be attached to the shaft of the patented
machine, they must overlie each other at the point of attachment, thereby causing a big bunch at the end; whereas it is
claimed that in the defendants' machine, the points of attachment being distributed around the periphery of the shaft, there
is instead a series of small bends, resulting in a much more
nearly cylindrical coil.
So, too, it is claimed by the defendants that in the patented
machine, with the elongated slot, if many hides are to be
attached to the shaft, they must necessarily be distributed
along the length of the shaft and near the ends thereof, and
that, as a result, when the weight is pressed down it is liable to
come in contact with the point of attachment of the upper
hide and tear it away from its fastening, and this defect, it is
claimed, is not found in defendants' machines.
It is true that these minor differences may not be relied on
as, of themselves, taking the defendants' machine out of the
reach of the plaintiffs' patent, but they are the subject of
legitimate consideration by the jury, as part of the evidence
upon which they must pass in determining the question of
infringerhent.
Our attention is next directed, by the assignments of error,
to the instructions given on the subject of damages. Of
course, it will not be necessary for the jury to enter into this
inquiry unless they find the question of infringement in favor

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

of the plaintiffs. But as, from the nature of a trial by jury,
the court will be unable to anticipate the conclusion which
the jury may reach on that question, explanations will have
to be given to the jury as to the measure of damages applicable
in such cases.
The evidence upon which the plaintiffs relied tended to
show that the defendants had treated, upon their own
machines, sixty-six thousand hides. -They also called Herman
Royer, one of the plaintiffs, who testified that in his opinion
there would be a saving of $4:or $5 a hide by using his
machine over what it.would cost to soften hides by any other
method, and that he knew that the difference between the
cost of softening the rawhide by mechanical action in his
machine and doing the same work by hand or by any other
devices known would be more than one dollar a hide.
This was all the evidence offeted on the subject by the
plaintiffs. The defendant Coupe testified that there was no
advantage in the use of the plaintiffs' mechanism, and that he
would not take such a machine as a gift.
Upon this evidence the court instructed the jury as follows:
"The course takenby the plaintiffs to show the amount of
damages is a proper course. They undertake to show the
value of this invention to any person using it, and the law
deems it a fair inference that whatever value has been received
by the defendants through the use of this invention, so much
has been taken from the plaintiffs, and they are entitled to
have it restored to them. Upon the amount of those damages
you have the testimony, if I remember right, of only one
witness. Mr. Royer himself has made an estimation, as he
states, of the amount of money which would be saved by the
use of this particular mechanism for the performance of this
particular operation in the course of the production of rawhide leather. . . . If you believe his testimony to be
sound and in accordance with the truth, then you may make
up your verdict on that basis, that being, I think, the only
testimony in the case as to the amount of damages."
He subsequently added:
"My attention is called to the fact that there is other testi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

mony regarding the amount of damages besides that of Mr.
Royer. It is true, no doubt, that the defendant Coupe has
testified that there is no advantage in the use of this patented
mechanism; that it is not worth anything to him who uses it.
His testimony is that it is not worth anything to anybody,
and cannot be made to make leather, according to his understanding of it, according to his testimony. Of course, if that
be true, it not only reduces the damages to nothing, it is not
only conclusive that there should not be any damages at all,
but that there should be a verdict for the defendants. So,
that what I said before is strictly true, that, assuming that
there are to be any damages at all, assuming that the plaintiffs are entitled to a verdict, the only testimony upon the
subject of the amount of the verdict is that of Herman Royer."
We cannot approve of this instruction, which we think overlooked the established law on the subject.
The topic is one upon which there has been some confusion
and perhaps some variance in the cases. But recent discussion
has cleared the subject up, and the true rules have become well
settled.
There is a difference between the measure of recovery in
equity and that applicable in an action at law. Iii equity, the
complainant is entitled to recover such gains and profits as
have been made by the infringer from the unlawful use of the
invention, and, since the act of July 8, 1870, in cases where
the injury sustained by the infringement is plainly greater
than the aggregate of what was made by the defendant, the
complainant is entitled to recover the damages he has sustained,
in addition to the profits received. At law the plaintiff is entitled to recover, as damages, compensation for the pecuniary
loss he has suffered from the infringement, without regard to
the question whether the defendant has gained or lost by his
unlawful acts- the measure of recovery in such cases being
not what the defendant has gained, but what plaintiff has
lost. As the case in hand is one at law, it is not necessary to
pursue the subject of the extent of the equitable remedy; but
reference may be had to Tilghma v. Proctor,125 U. S. 137,
where the cases were elaborately considered and the rule above
stated was declared to be established.

COUPE v. ROYER.
Opinion of the Court.

But even in equity the profits which the complainant seeks
to recover must be shown to have been actually received by
the defendant. As was said in the case just referred to, "the
infringer is liable for actual, not for possible gains. The
profits, therefore, which he must account for are not those
which he might reasonably have made, but those which he
did make, by the use of the plaintiff's invention; or, in other
words, the fruits of the advantage which he derived from the
use of that invention, over what he would have had in using
other means then open to the public and adequate to enable
him to obtain an equally beneficial result. If there was no
such advantage in his use of the plaintiff's invention, there can
be no decree for profits." And in Keystone .Manufatring
Co. v. Adams, 151 U. S. 139, this court reversed the decree of
the Circuit Court, because, in assessing the damages, that court
based the amount on evidence showing, not what the defendant had made out of the invention, but what third persons
had made out of the use of the*invention.
It is evident, therefore, that the learned judge applied the
wrong standard in instructing the jury that they should find
what the defendants might.be shown to have gained from the
use of the patented invention. Nor, even if the defendants'
gains were the measure of their liability, did the evidence
justify the instruction, because that evidence tended to show
what Royer estimated that the defendants' profits might have
been, and not what they actually were.
Upon this state of facts, the evidence disclosing the existence
of no license fee, no impairment of- the plaintiffs' market, in
short, no damages of any kind, we think the court should
have instructed the jury, if they found for the plaintiffs at all,
to find nominal damages only.
Error is alleged in the instruction of the court as to the duty
of the plaintiffs, in order to lay a foundation for the recovery
of damages, to give the notice required by section 4900 of the
Revised Statutes.
It is claimed that the plaintiffs have neither alleged nor
proved that the machines constructed under the patent have
been marked as the statute requires; that hence the only

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ground upon which they can recover damages is by proof of
actual notice of infringement given to the defendants; and
that the court erred in instructing the jury that no notice was
necessary, and in thus taking away entirely the question
whether any actual notice of infringement ever was given.
The plaintiffs contend that this point was not made at the
trial; that it was not brought to the attention of the court by
any proper request; and that the defendants should have set
this matter up either by a plea or in*. a notice of special matter,
so that the plaintiffs could have been prepared to meet the
issue with evidence; and they cite .RubberCo. v. Goodyear, 9
Wall. 788, 801, and Sessions v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 50, as
holding that, in equity cases, notice of such ground of defence
ought to appear in the answer, and that it is too late to raise
such a question after the case has gone to a master for an
account.

But in Dunlap v. Schofleld, 152 U. S. 244, 247, also a case in
equity, it was said: "The clear meaning of this section is that
the patentee or ihis assignee, if he makes or sells the article
patented, cannot recover damages against infringers of the
patent, unless he has given notice of his right, either to the
whole public by marking his article 'patented,' or to the particular defendants by informing them of his patent and of
their infringement of it. One of these two things, marking the
article, or notice to the infringers, is made by the statute a prerequisite to th6 patentee's right to recover damages against
them. Each is an affirmative, fact, and is something to be done
by him. Whether his patented articles have been duly inarked
or not is a matter peculiarly within his own knowledge; and if
they are not duly marked the statute expressly puts upon him
th burden of proving the notice to the infringers, before he
can charge them in damages. By the elementary principles of
pleading, therefore, the duty of alleging, and the burden of
proving, either of these facts is upon the plaintiff."
As, then, in the present case, there was evidence in the forn
of interviews between Rover and Coupe, from which the plaintiffs sought to infer the fact of actual notice, and the defendants offered evidence tending to show that they had never

TEX. & PAC. RAILWAY v. INTERSTATE TRANS. CO. 585
Syllabus.

received any notice, either actual or constructive, of the Royer
patent, or of any infringement thereof by them, we think the
court ought to have submitted that question to the jury for
their decision.
This view, however, is based on the assumption that the
provisions of section 4900, Revised Statutes, are applicable to
a case where the patentee has not sold any machine, nor
licensed others to use his invention, but has chosen to enjoy his
monopoly by a personal and sole use of the patented machine.
In such'a case, if the articles produced by the operation of ther
patented machine are not themselves claimed as new and
patented articles of commerce, there may be a question
whether th6 statute has any applicability. As, howevQr, this
cause has, for other reasons, to go back for another trial, and
as this suggestion was not discussed in the briefs or at the
hearing, we now express no opinion upon it.
T]e judgment of the Circuit Court is reversed,and the record
remandedwith directionsto set aside th8.verdict and award
a new tria.
MR. JUSTicE- BRowN concurred in this opinion on the question of damages only.

TEXAS AND PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
No. 95. Argued December 8, 194.-Decided January 7, 1895.

When a bridge is lawfully built over a navigable river within the limits of a
State, and is maintained as a lawful structure, its owners may at all times
have recourse to the courts to protect it; and any relief which may be
granted by the court on such application is not a regulation of commerce.
When a court of equity is satisfied that irreparable injuries may be occasioned to such a structure by careless or wanton action on the part
of navigators, the ordinary rule that the court will not act where there

