OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

to the question whether the territorial act of 1883, under
which these bonds were issued, conferred an "especial privilege" upon the railroad company, within the meaning of
Revised Statutes, section 1889, inhibiting "private charters
and especial privileges," and also to the further question
whether bonds issued under a mandatory or compulsory statute are valid. But in the view we have taken of the case it
is unnecessary to express an opinion upon these points.
We are compelled to hold that the bonds in question create
no obligation against the county which a court of law can
enforce.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
.4ffrmed.

GREELEY v. LOWE.
APPEAL FROM1 TH] CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 517. Submitted April 30, 1894. -Decided

October 29, 1894.

A suit in equity for the partition of land, wherein the plaintiff avers that
he is seized as tenant in common of an estate in fee simple, and is in
actual possession of the land described, and, after setting forth thd
interests of the other tenants in common, and alleging that no remedy
at lav exists to enable him to obtain his share of said lands in kind,
or of the proceeds if sold, and that he is wholly without remedy except
in chancery, prays for the partition of the land, and the segregation of
his own share from that of the others, and incidentally that certain
deeds may be construed and, if invalid, may be cancelled, and that he
may recover his advances for taxes and expenses, is. clearly a bill to
enforce a claim and settle the title to real estate; and as such is a suit
covered by § 8 of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 Stat. 470, 472, of
which the Circuit Court of the district where the land lies may properly
assume jurisdiction.
The questions that, the title of some of the parties to the land being in
dispute, such titles must be settled before partition could be made; that
the interests of several of the defendants were adverse to each other;
and that as some of these defendants were citizens of the same State, it
would raise controversies beyond the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court
to decide, not having been certified to this couit, are not pas cd upoil.

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Statement of the Case.
Where the laws of a State give a remedy in equity, that remedy will be
enforced in Federal courts in the State, if it does not infringe upon the
constitutional right of the parties to a trial by jury.
The objection that A. was alleged in the bill to be a resident and citizen of
the District of Columbia was met by an amended allegation that A. was
" a citizen of South Carolina, now residing in Washington city, District
of Columbia;" and while this allegation was traversed, it must, for the
purpose of this hearing, be taken as true.

TIs was a bill in equity for the partition of real estate
originally filed by George P. Greeley and wife, who were
alleged to be citizens 6f New Hampshire, against 130 defendants, most of whom were citizens of Florida. Of the
remaining defendants some were citizens of Georgia, others
of Illinois, South Carolina, Alabama, Texas, North Carolina,
New York, New Jersey, Mississippi, and one Eliza B. Anderson, of the city of Washington and District of Columbia.
The bill averred the plaintiff, George P. Greeley, to be
seized as tenant in common; in fee simple, and in actual possession of 10,016 acres of land in the Northern District of
Florida, of the value of $10,000, exclusive of interest and
costs, etc.; that one John T. Lowe and Susan, his wife, were
originally seized of the said premises by grant from the Spanish government in 1816, as a mill right, Lowe being then
married, and his wife Susan being seized by ganancial right
of an undivided half of said premises under the laws of Spain,
which declared that real estate acquired by either the husband or wife during coverture by purchase, gift, or gain,
becomes and remains community property, and that they
were seized thereof as tenants in common; that Lowe died
in 1824, and the grant was subsequently confirmed by the
Supreme Court of the United States in 184:2, United States v.
Loo, 16 Pet. 162-; that the ganancial right and title of said
Susan Lowe has never been alienated, relinquished, or annulled, and has been duly protected and guaranteed by the
treaty of 1819 between the United States and Spain; that
Lowe attempted to convey to one Clark the southern half
of this grant, but his wife, then living, did not join, and the
half of the south half only was conveyed; that Clark conveyed to Duncan L. Clinch, who died testate, leaving his

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

executor power to sell said lands; that Susan Lowe survived
her husband, but both died intestate, and their estates had
long been settled. That the north half of said grant and
half of the south half descended to their children, nine in
number.
The genealogy and shares of the heirs and their grantees
are stated at great length in the bill, all the claims of the
various members being set up and defined, and the invalidity
of certain deeds attached as exhibits being averred and
pointed out. The bill contained a general averment that
no other person except such as were made parties had any
initerest in or title to tie premises; that by reason of' the
lapse of time, the disturbed condition of the country, etc.,
it has been almost impossible to trace the lineage of the
several families, and to find the actual parties in interest.
The bill prayed that the different deeds attached as exhibits might be construed, and the interest, if any conveyed,
ascertained or the deeds cancelled; that all persons having
any claims or liens upon the lands might be brought in and
required to prove their claims, or have the same held null
and void; that partition of the lands be made, if possible
and equitable, and if not, that they might be sold and the
proceeds distributed; that plaintiff recover his advances for
taxes and expenses, including costs and counsel fees; that a
master be appointed to state the shares, advances, and fees;
and that commissioners be appointed to make partition or
sale, etc.
Isaac A. Stewart, one of the defendants resident in Florida,
filed a plea to the jurisdiction, setting up, among other things,
that the suit was not brought in the district of the residence
of either the plaintiffs or defendants; that the controversy
was not between citizens of different States; that certain defendants had interests adverse to other defendants ; that Eliza
B. Anderson, one of the defendants, was a resident and citizen
of the District of Columbia; that her claim was adverse to
his (Stewart's); that Greeley's wife was improperly joined,
was not the cotenant, and could not maintain a suit; that
the wives of several of the defendants were improperly joined,

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Argument for Appellees.

in that they possessed no legal interest in the property; and
that others who were necessary parties were not joined as
defendants. Thereupon plaintiff moved for leave to amend his
bill by inserting after the name of Eliza Anderson the words
"citizen of South Carolina, now resident in Washington, D. C.,"
and also to add other defendants. The court granted the
rotion to amend, and the cause came on to be heard on the
plea to the jurisdiction. The court made a final decree, holding that, while it was true that the complainants were citizens
of New Hampshire and resident there, and some of the defendants were citizens of Florida, in the district in which the
land lies, yet because there were other defendants, citizens of
New York and also of other States than the State in which
the complainants reside and have citizenship, and also citizens
of other Federal districts than that where the land is situate,
and where certain defendants reside, it was decreed that "this
court has not jurisdiction over all the defendants to this action,
because they are not all residents and citizens of the district
in which the land.sought to be partitioned lies, and are not all
found in said district at the time of the service of the process."
On MIay 6, 1892, plaintiffs filed a petition for rehearing,
and on June 13 amended their bill by striking out the name
of Eliza B. Anderson as defendant. While no formal decree
subsequent to the rehearing appears to have been entered, by
an endorsement made upon the bill of June 15, it would
appear that the bill was finally dismissed upon that date.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court, and the
question of jurisdiction as above stated was certified to this
court for decision, pursuant to section 5 of the Court of Appeals act.
M'. George A. Zing and M..James 1. Challen for appellants.
i r. I. A. Stewart, Mr. E. K. Foster, .Mrn. A. G. Hamlin,
and ilk. E. Bly for appellees.
The bill in this case seeks to obtain the construction of a
great number of deeds, mortgages, and contracts set forth in

OCTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Argument for Appellees.

it; the ascertainment of the respective interests of parties
claiming under them; and the cancellation of such as appear
to convey no interest. Its real object is stated near its close
as follows: "That no remedy at law exists to enable the complainant to obtain his share of said lands in kind, or of proceeds if sold, and he is wholly without remedy except in
chancery, for that, unless all the shareholders of said lands and
all the lienholders thereon are discovered and marshalled, and
the valid sustained, and the invalid excluded, and the legal
titles quieted as against the illegal, the said lands will forever
remain a forlorn wilderness." It is thus sought in one action
to determine who are the owners of the land, and then to
partition the same, which cannot be done. Chapin v. Sears,
18 Fed. Rep. 814. This is sought, regardless of adverse claims,
interests, and conflicts.
The bill further seeks to recover all money expended by the
plaintiff in this litigation, directly or indirectly, or in holding
an alleged adverse possession, for taxes paid, for counsel fees,
etc. This is sought to be taken out of the proceeds of the
sale of the land, upon final decree in partition, regardless of
the fact that some of the adverse owners may succeed in
establishing their titles to all or portions of the property.
It is further shown that a sale of the property will be necessary. Reasons are alleged why the land cannot be partitioned
after thd title is litigated, but must be sold by commissioners
under the decree of the court.
In order that such sale may be decreed, it is necessary that
all parties interested in the property be joined in the proceedings. To decree such a sale while the title is in any manner
in dispute, would be decreeing clouds upon the title, rather
than clearing them up. The object of the bill thus being for
a sale of the land, rather than for partition, such a bill must
be distinguished in principle from one in which one or more
parties seek the mere partition and setting off of their particular interests, in such manner that none of the parties interested can be injured or in the least affected. In the one case
the object of the bill is simply to stake off the interest of 'the
complainants; in the other it is to affect every foot of land so

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Argument for Appellees.

that a purchaser at the sale decreed shall obtain a perfect title
to the whole. In the former case the controversy might be
separate, and all adverse claimants or parties interested might
not be indispensable parties; but in the case at bar every party
claiming any interest is a material and necessary party. The
litigation cannot go on without affecting each and all. If dismissed as to one, it must be s"to all, and, under such circumstances, relief cannot be granted to any. Barney v. Baltimore
City, 6 Wall. 280.
In view of the citizenship of the parties, it follows that the
court did not err in dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction.
The Federal Constitution allows to United States courts certain maximum jurisdiction, to be granted by Congress from
time to time. Jurisdiction of the bill at bar can only be maintained under that clause of the Constitution which authorizes
jurisdiction in suits between citizens of different States. The
primary prerequisite in this case is that there shall be a controversy between citizens of different States. Congress has
delegated- to United States Circuit Courts jurisdiction, between
"citizens of different States," using the very language of the
Constitution, with the limitation that in cases in which jurisdiction is dependent upon difference in citizenship, suit shall
be brought only in the district of the residence of plaintiff or
defendant. Act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, sec. 1; 25 Stat. 433.
The entire scope of jurisdiction of these courts is laid down in
section 1.of that act, and is not found elsewhere. Smith v.
Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Jewett v. Bradford Savings Bank, .45
Fed. Rep. 801.
A controversy between citizens of different States, when
there are several plaintiffs or defendants, has been uniformly
held for more than niney years to -be one in which each
plaintiff is competent to sue, and each defendant liable to be
sued at the place where suit is brought. There is no difference in this respect between cases at law and equity. Smith.
v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694;
Coal Co. v. Blatchford, 11 Wall. 172; Earns v. Atlantic &¢
Ohio Railroad, 10 Fed. Rep. 309. Every party on one side
must be a citizen of a different State from every party on the
other. Blake v. MAlcKim, 103 U. S. 336.

OCTOBER TERM{, 1894.
Argument for Appellees.

In determining who are the parties, the court is not bound
by the title of the cause, or the form of the pleadings. It
can examine the record, ascertain the matter in dispute, and
arrange the parties on opposite sides, according to the facts,
.without regard to their technical places in the litigation.
Picific Railroadv. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289; Blake v. _McKim,
103 U. S. 336 ; Pen*insular 1ron Co. v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631.
This power extends to partition suits in chancery, Beebee v.
Louisville &c. Railroad, 39 Fed. Rep. 481; Covert v. Waldron, 33 Fed. Rep. 311; Rich v. Bray, 37 Fed. Rep. 273; and
is applicable to original suits as well as to those removed from
state courts. KEarns v. Atlantic & Ohio Railroad,10 Fed. Rep.
309; Pacii Railroad v. Ketchum, 101 U. S. 289; Peninsular
Iron Co. v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631.
Since the passage of the act of 1888, the Circuit Courts
of the United States have no original jurisdiction in law or
equity, in suits between citizens of one-State, and citizens of
the same and of another State. Earns v. Raivoad Co., 10
Fed. Rep. 309; Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Covert v. Watdron, 33 Fed. Rep. 311. And as they will not allow their
jurisdiction to be imposed upon by improperly invoking it, or
allow parties by subterfuge or collusion to successfully thrust
jurisdiction upon such courts, they will investigate such
matters of their own motion, as it has been the constant effort
of Congress and of United States courts to prevent litigation
between citizens of the same State in United States courts.
Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694; Rich v. Bray, 37 Fed. Rep.
273; Biirs v. Preston, 111 U. S. 252; Bland v. -Freeman,29
Fed. Rep. 669.
The bill was therefore properly dismissed because, jurisdiction depending only upon difference in citizenship, the suit
was not brought in the district of the residence of plaintiff or
defendant. On this point the act of August 13, 1888, already
referred to, reads as follows:
"But no person shall be arrested in one district for trial in
another in any civil action before a Circuit or District Court.
And no civil suit shall be brought before either of said courts
against any person by any original process or proceeding in

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Argument for Appellees.

any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, but
where the jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the
action is between citizens of different States, suit shall be
brought only in the district of the residehce of either the
plaintiff or the defendant." This must be considered as a limitation upon that other clause of the same section granting generally to Circuit Courts jurisdistion in controversies between
citizens of different States. The very language shows this,
"and when jurisdiction depends," etc. Congress was empowered by see.- 2, art. 3, of the Federal Constitution to
grant jurisdiction without this limitation, in controversies between citizens of different States, but this has never been
done. It has been the constant effort of Congress and the
courts to limit jurisdiction. It is narrower under the act of
1887than theretofore. Xc ormick 11arvesting Miiachine Co.
v. Walthers, 134: U. S. 41 ; Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694;
Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315; Bensinger Cash Reg. Co. v.
N'at'l Cash Reg. Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 81.
That the last-named decision, in its construction of sec. 1,
did not intend to limit it to cases at common law, or to any
particular class of chancery cases, is evident fR~om the cases
cited therein. Most of them are chancery cases, and some
are cases to enfbrce liens upon real or personal property within
the district. As to the latter see Cal Co. v. Blatchford
11 Wall. 172; Peninsular i-ron Co. v. Stone, 121 U. S. 631;
30 L. Ed. 1020; New Orleans v. Winter, 1 Wheat. 91.
But the appellant contends that jurisdiction is given by § 8
of the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, 18 S.tat. 470, known as
the Publication Act. That statute does not enlarge the jurisdiction of United Stites courts, but only provides a method of
bringing parties before the court in a certain class of cases
wherein there is jurisdiction otherwise. Brigham v. Luddington, 12 Blatchford, 237; Pacifie Railroad v. Missouri Pacic
-Railway,3 Fed. Rep. 772; Jewett v. BradfordSavings Bank,
45 Fed. Rep. 801; Van Antwe7p v. Hulburd, 7 Blatchford,
426; Detweil& v. Holderbaum, 42 Fed. Rep. 337; Remer v.
Mackay, 35 Fed. Rep. 8M.
United States courts have no jurisdiction except such as the
VOL. CLV-5

OCTOBER TERf 1894.
Argument for Appellees.

statutes clearly confer. No presumption of jurisdiction exists.
Sewing Mkachine Cases, 18 Wall. 553; Anderson v. Watt, 138
U. S. 694; Bhk's v. Preston, 111 U. S. 252; fIkenard v. Goggan,
121 U. S. 253; Robertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 64:6; Brown v.
Heene, 8 Pet. 112.
The entire jurisdiction given to the courts is sought to be
concentrated in § I of the act of 1888. This is the general
jurisdictional clause, and none other is intended. The wording of the act is significant. Jurisdiction is granted in § 1,
with the limitation that "where the jurisdiction is founded
only on the fact that the action is between citizens of different
States, suit shall be brought in the district of the residence of
either plaintiff or defendant." Then comes § 8 and says
that the act shall be so construed as to keep in force
the publication act. This does not mean that the publication act shall be paramount, and that citizenship and district
within which a party is entitled to be sued shall be disregarded.
If the section which keeps the publication act in force was
intended to change any of the provisions of § 1 it would
have been mentioned therein as a limitation, just as is the
limitation to the clause providing for controversies between
citizens of different States, viz., the provision as to where parties shall be sued.
If the publication clause is a jurisdictional clause, it is broad
enough to go beyond anything permitted by the Constitution,
as it is without limit as to difference of citizenship, or as to
districts. Any one could sue any other person anywhere in
the whole world in a Circuit Court, regardless of citizenship or
any other constitutional limitations, in a certain class of cases
therein named. It is plain to be seen that such a construction
would array the publication clause in conflict with all the limitations contained in § 1, and we would have an act inconsistent
with itself and impossible to be construed. Brigham v. Luddington, 12 Blatchford, 237; Bensinger Cash Register Co.
v. National Cash Register Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 81.
If, however, this clause is construed to give a right to proceed by publication only in cases in which the court otherwise

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

has jurisdiction, as we contend it should be, there is no conflict. In the words of Brigham v. Luddington, 12 Blatchford,
237, "Nothing in the act of 1872" (the original publication
act) "warrants the suggestion that Congress intended anything more than to furnish a means of obtaining jurisdiction
of the person of a defendant not found within the district in
actions whereof the court, under the Constitution and existing
statutes, would have jurisdiction if all the defendants were
personally served with process within the district or voluntarily appeared."
The act of 1888 has been construed in many cases in which
the publication act is not particularly mentioned, but if the
construction of the general jurisdiction of courts therein be
sound, this construction cannot be changed by the publication
act. Anderson v. Watt, 138 U. S. 694; Smith v. Lyon, 133
U. S.315.
The case of Anderson v. Watt is the last expression of the
Supreme Court upon the question at isspe. The publication
act is not mentioned, but it will be noticed that the suit is
one to enforce an equitable lien upon real estate in the district,
and the court unanimously holds that, since the act o& 1875,
if the defendants reside in the State of which the complainants are citizens, or if each of the indispensable adverse parties is not competent to be sued therein, the Circuit Court
cannot retain cogrnizance of the suit. The difficulty was a
jurisdictional one-the controversy was not one between
citizens of different States. If it were possible to bring the
parties in by publication, the Supreme Court would surely
have said so.
Mm JusTicE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This bill appears to have been dismissed by the court below
upon the ground that inhabitants of other districts than the
Northern District of Florida were made defendants. The
question ,really is whether, under the act of August 13, 1888,
c. 866, 25 Stat. 433, requiring, in ,actions between citizens of

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

different States, suits to be brought only in the district of the
residence of either the plaintiff or the defendant, it is admissible to bring a suit for partition in a district in which only a
part of such defendants reside. As suits are usually begun ill
the district in which the defendants, or one of the defendants,
reside, the question practically involves the whole power of
the Circuit Court of one district to take jurisdiction of such
suits, brought against defendants some of whom are residents
of other districts.
(1) The paragraph of section 1 of the act of 1888, relied
upon by the defendants, reads as follows: "And no civil suit
shall be brought before either of said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, but where the
jurisdiction is founded only on the fact that the action is
between citizens of different States, suit shall be brought only
in the district of the residence of either the plaintiff, or the
defendant." In the case of Smith v. Lyon, 133 U. S. 315, 317,
this court held that the Circuit Court has no jurisdiction on
the ground of diverse citizenship, if there are two plaintiffs to
the action, who are citizens of and residents in different States,
and defendant is a citizen of and a resident in a third State,
and the action is brought in a State in which one of the plaintiffs resides. As was said by the court, the argument in support
of the jurisdiction was, "that it is sufficient if the suit is brought
in a State where one of the defendants or one of the plaintils
is a citizen. This would be true if there were but one plaintiff or one defendant. But the statute makes no provision, in
terms, for the case of two defendants or two plaintiffs who are
citizens of different States: In the present case, there being
two plaintiffs, citizens of different States, there does not seem
to be, in the language of the statute, any provision that both
plaintiffs may unite in one suit in a State in which either of
them is a citizen." The court referring to several prior cases
in this court, in which it was held that the word "citizen," as
used in the Judiciary Act of 1789, is used collectively, and
means all citizens upon one side of a suit, and if there are
several co-plaintiffs the intention of the act -is that each plain-

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

tiff must be competent to sue, and if there are several codefendants, each defendant must be liabl to be sued or the
jurisdiction cannot be entertained, held that the same construction must be given to the word "inhabitant" as used in
the above paragraph in the act of 1888, and that, if suit were
begun in a district whereof the plaintiff was an inhabitant,
jurisdiction would only attach if there were no other plaintiffs, citizens, and inhabitants of other districts. If this doctrine be also applicable to defendants in local actions, it
necessarily follows that suit will not lie in any district of
which a defendant is a citizen or, inhabitant, if there are inhabitants of other districts also made defendants. As above
stated, this practically ifnhibits all suits against defendants
resident in different districts.
A brief review of the history of corresponding provisions in
prior acts will show that it has never been supposed that the
Federal courts did not have jurisdiction of local actions in
which citizens of different districts were defendants, and, in
fact, provision was expressly made by law for such contingency.
In the eleventh section of the Judiciary Act of September 24,
1789, c. 20, 1 Stat. 73, 79, is a provision, subsequently incorporated in section 739 of the Revised Statutes, that "no civil
suit shall be brought before either of said courts against an
inhabitant of the United States, by any original process in any
other district than that-whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which
he shall be found at the time of serving the writ." Under
this section any number of non-residents could be joined as
defendants if only they were served within the jurisdiction of
the court. Ober v. Gallagher,93 U. S. 199.
But to obviate any objection that might be raised by reason
of the non-joinder or inability to serve absent defendants, it
was 'provided by the act of February 28, 1839, c. 36, 5 Stat.
321, subsequently carried into the Revised Statutes, as section
737, that" when there are several defendants in any suit at law
or in equity, and one or more of them are neither inhabitants
of nor found within the district within which the suit is brought,
and do not voluntarily appear, the court may entertain jurisdiction, and proceed to the trial and adjudication of the suit

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

between the parties who are properly before it; but the judgment or decree rendered therein shall not conclude or prejudice
other parties not regularly served with process nor voluntarily
appearing to answer; and non-joinder of parties who are not
inhabitants of nor found within the district as aforesaid, shall
not constitute matter of abatement or objection to the suit."
Construing this act, it was held in Shields v. Barrow,17 How.
130, 141, that it did not enable a Circuit Court to make a decree
in equity, in the absence of an indispensable party, whose rights
must necessarily be affected by such a decree. Says Mr. Justice
Curtis (p. 141) : "It remains true, notwithstanding the act of
Congress and the 47th rule, that a Circuit Court can make no
decree affecting the rights of an absent person, and can make
no decree between the parties before it, which so far involves
or depends upon the rights of an absent person, that complete
and fintal justice cannot be done between-the parties to the suit
without affecting those rights." This ruling was applied in
-Barneyv. Baltimore City, 6 Wall. 280, to a bill for partition
filed by Barney, a citizen of Delaware, in the Circuit Court of
M,aryland, against the city of Baltimore and several individuals,
citizens of Mvaryland, and certain other citizens of the District
of Columbia. These latter had made a conveyance to one
Proud, a citizen of Maryland, for the special purpose of conferring jurisdiction on the Federal court, such conveyance being
made without consideration, and with an agreement that the
grantee would reconvey on request. It was held that the court
of chancery could not render a decree without having before
it the citizens of the District of Columbia, and that their conveyance to Proud, being merely collusive, conferred no jurisdiction upon the court.
The law remained in this condition until 1872, when Congress, apparently to remove the difficulty suggested by these
cases, passed an act, Act of June 1, 1872, c. 255, 17 Stat. 196,
§ 13, subsequently incorporated into the fRevised Statutes as
section 738, providing that "when any defendant in a suit.in
equity to enforce any legal or equitable lien or claim against
real or personal property within the district where the suit is
brought, is not an inhabitant of nor found within the said dis-

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

trict, and does not voluntarily appear thereto, it shall be lawful
for the court to make an order directing such absent defendant
to appear, plead, answer, or demur to the complainant's bill, at
a certain day therein to be designated," etc. And then follows the provision in section 739, that "except in the cases
and the cases proprovided in the next three sectioni, . . .
vided by the preceding section (§ 738) no civil suit shall be
brought in any other district than that of which the defendant
is an inhabitant," etc. The "next three sections" are § 740, in
which special provision is made for States containing more than
one district, requiring the defendant, if a single one, to be sued
in the district where he resides, but if there are defendants in
different districts, suit may be brought in either, and a duplicate
writ issued against residents of theother districts; § 741, wherein
provision is made for suits of a local nature where the defendant resides in a different district in the same State fr~om that
in, which the suit is brought, permitting process to be served
in the district where he resides; and § 742, providing that in
any suit.of a local-nature at law or in equity, where the land
or other subject-matter of a fixed character lies partly in one
district and partly in another, within the same State, suit may
be brought in the Circuit or District Court of either district,
etc. These sections- 740, 741, and 742- are the "next three
sections 1 mentioned in § 739 as exceptions to the general rule
that.no civil suit shall be brought against an inhabitant in any
other district than his own.
But, by the act of March 3, 1875, c. 137, § 1, 18 Stat.
470, a slight change was made in the previous phraseology to
the effect that "no civil suit shall be brought before either of
said courts against any person by any original process or proceeding in. any other district than that whereof he is an inhabitant, or in which he shall be found at the time of serving
such process or commencing such proceedings, except as hereinafter provided." This exception is contained in § 8 of the
same act, which deals with the class of cases mentioned in
Revised Statutes, § 738, and provides for publication "in any
suit . . . to enforce any legal or equitable lien upon or
claim to, or to remove any incumbrance or lien or cloud upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the title to real or personal property within the district where
such suit is brought;" with a further proviso that "said adjudication shall, as regards such absent defendant or defendants
without appearance, affect only the property which shall have
been the subject of the suit and under the jurisdiction of the
court therein, within such district." As no exception was
made in that act of the cases provided for by §§ 740, 741, and
742, it is at least open to some doubt as to whether suits will
lie against non-resident defendants under those sections. So,
too,. in the act of August 13,1888, § 5, there was an express
reservation of any jurisdiction or right mentioned in § 8 of
the act of Congress of which this act was an amendment, (that
is, the act of March 3, 1875,) which, as above stated, is the
section permitting suits to enforce any legal or equitable lien
upon, or claim to real estate to be brought in the district
where the property lies, and defendants, non-residents of such '
district, to be brought in by publication or personal service
made in their own districts. It is entirely true that § 8 of the
act of 1875, authorizing publication, does not enlarge the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court. It does not purport to do so.
Jurisdiction was conferred by the first section of the act of
1888 of "all suits of a civil nature" exceeding two thousand
dollars in amount, "in which there shall be a controversy
between citizens of different States," and this implies that no
defendant shall be a citizen of the same State with the plaintiff, but otherwise there is no limitation upon such jurisdiction.
Section 8 of the act of 1875, saved, by § 5 of the act of 1888,
does, however, confer a privilege upon the plaintiff of joining
in local actions defendants who are non-residents of the district in which the action is brought, and calling them in by
publication, thus creating an exception to the clause of § 1,
that no civil suit shall be brought in any other district than
that of which defendant is an inhabitant. Hence, it appears
that the case of Smfith v. Lyon really has no bearing, as that
case involved only the rights of parties to personal actions
residing in different districts to sue and be sued, and was
entirely unaffected by the act of 1888, § 5, which deals with
defendants only in local actions, and expressly reserves juris-

GREELEY. v. LOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

diction, if the suit be one to enforce a lien or claim upon real
estate or personal property. The precise question here involved has never been passed upon by this court, but in the
only cases in the Circuit Courts to which our attention has
been called, the jurisdiction was upheld. American F. I. .
Co. v. Benson, 33 ]Fed. Rep. 456; Carpenter v. Talbot, 33
Fed. Rep. 537; Ames v. llolderbaum, 42 Fed. Rep. 341;
f-oBee v.. _Mirietta &o. Railway, 48 Fed. Rep. 243; and
Wheelwright v: St. Louis, Noew Orleans c. Transportation
Co., 50 Fed. Rep. 709.
In line with these cases, and almost directly in point here,
is the decision of this court in Goodman v. NAiblack, 102 U. S.
556, in which it was held that where a bill was filed to enforce
a claim or lien upon a specific fund within reach of th6 court,
and such of the defendants as were neither inhabitants of, nor
found within the district did not voluntarily appear, the Circuit Court had the power to adjudicate upon their right to, or
interest in, the fund, if they be notified of the pendency of
the suit by service or publication in the mode prescribed by
Rev. Stat. § 738. This is a distinct adjudication that defendants, who are neither inhabitants of, "or fouild within the
district, may be cited by publication to appear, and if this be
so, it is difficult to see how the omission of the words "found
within the district" in the act of 1888 makes any difference
whatever with regard to the right to call absent"defenfdants in
by publication. The 'ct of 1875 gave the right to sue defendants wherever they were found. The act of 1888 requires
that they shall be inhabitants of the district. But in both
cases, an exception is created 'in local actibns, wherein any
defendant interested in the 'res may be cited to appear and
answer, provided he be not a citizen of the same State with
the plaintiff. So, too, in Hellen v. .oline .Malleable Iron
Works, 131 U. S. 352, a suit instituted by a creditor to set
aside a conveyance of the real estate and a mortgage upon
the personal property of his debtor made to secure certain
preferred creditors, was held to be a suit brought to remove
an incumbrance orlien or cloud upon the property within the
meaning of § 8 of the act of 1875, and that the Circuit Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

was authorized to summon an absent defendant, and to exercise jurisdiction over his rights in the property in suit within
the jurisdiction of the court.
Indeed, any other construction of this act would practically
nullify § 8 of the act of 1875, permitting the publication of
absent defendants, since the entire object of the section is to
call in defendants who cannot be served within the district,
by reason of their absence or non-residence.
It follows, then, thlat if this be a suit covered by § 8 of the
act of 1875, the Circuit Court of the district wherein the land
in dispute lies may properly assume jurisdiction. We think
that it is such -a suit. The bill in question is one for the partition of land, wherein plaintiff avers- that he is seized as tenant
in common of an estate in fee simple, and is in actual possession of the land described, and after setting forth the interests
of the other tenants in common, and alleging that no remedy
at law exists to enable him to obtain his share of said lands in
kind, or of the proceeds if sold, and that he is wholly without
remedy except in chancery, prays for the partition of the land,
and the segregation of his own share from that of the others,
and incidentally that certain deeds may be construed and,
if invalid, may be cancelled, and that he may recover his
advances for taxes and expenses. This is- clearly a bill to
enforce a claim and settle the title to real estate.
(2) Further objection was made to the jurisdiction of the
court upon the ground that it appeared from the face of the
bill that the title of some of the parties to the land was in dispute; that such titles must be settled before partition could
be made; that the interests of several of the defendants were
adverse to each other; and that as some of these defendants
were citizens of the same State, it would raise controversies
beyond the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to decide. These
objections, however, are not within the question certified to us
for decision, which is that it had been "adjudged and decreed
that this court has not jurisdiction over all of the defendants
to this action because they are not all citizens and residents of
the district in which the land sought to be partitioned lies,
and are not all found in said district at the time of service of

GREELEY v. LOWE.
Opinion of the Court.

process, although they are all residents and citizens of other
States than that in which complainants have residence and
citizenship." The objections go not to the jurisdiction of the
Federal court as such, but to the maintenance of such a bill in
any court of equity in the State of Florida. They are questions proper to be considered on demurrer to the bill,, and as
bearing upon such questions, the local practice of the State in
that regard may become an important consideration. This
court has held in a multitude of cases that where the laws of
a particular State gave a remedy in equity, as, for instance, a
bill by a party in or out of possession, to quiet title to lands,
such remedy would be enforced.in the Federal courts, if it did
not infringe upon the constitutional rights of the parties to a
trial by jury. Clark v. Smith, 13 Pet. 195; Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15; Reynolds v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112
U. S. 405; Chapman v. Bi'ewer, 114 U. S. 158, 171; Cummings v. National Bank, 101 U.- S. 153, 157; United States
v. Landramn, 118 U. S. 81; More v. Steinlah, 127 U. S. 70.
This suggestion is the more important in view of a statute
of Florida which authorizes a court of equity in partition cases
'Ato ascertain and adjudicate the rights and interests of the
parties," whiich has apparently been held to authorize the
court, in its discretion, to settle the question of title as incidental to the main controversy, or retain the bill and refer it
to a court of law. Street v. Benner, 20 Florida, 700; .Keil v.
West, 21'Florida, 508.
These questions, however, are not presented by the record
in this case, and are mentioned only as giving color to plaintiff's claim that the existence of controversies between different defendants is not fatal to the jurisdiction of the Federal
court upon the allegations of this bill.
(3) The objection that Eliza B. Anderson was alleged in the
bill to be a resident and citizen of the. District of Columbia
was met by an amended allegation that Anderson was
"a citizen of. South Carolina now residing in Washington
city, District of Columbia;" and while .this allegation was
traversed, it must, for the purpose of this hearing, be taken as
true.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

As this case was appealed under section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, upon a question of jurisdiction, no other question can be properly considered, and the -decree of the court
below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case 'emanded for further _roceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
ME. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER dissented.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LANID CLAIMS.
No. 591. Submitted October 9, 1894.- Decided October 29, 1894.

The provisions in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, "to establish a court of private land claims and to provide for the settlement of
private land claims in certain States and Territories," authorizing this
court to amend the proceedings of the court below, and to cause additional testimony to be taken, are not mandatory, but only empower the
court to direct further proofs, and to amend the record, if in its judgment the case demands its interposition to that effect.
The judicial action of all inferior courts established by Congress may, in
accordance with the Constitution, be subjected to the appellate jurisdiction 5f the Supreme Court of the United States.
An appeal lies to this court from a judgment of the Court of Private Land
Claims over property in the Territories.

MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
as follows:

The case was

On March 3, 1891, an act of Congress was approved, entitled
"An act to establish a Court of Private Land Claims, and to
provide for the settlement of private land claims in certain
States and Territories." 26 Stat. 854, c. 539.
By the first section it was provided: "That there shall be,
and hereby is, established a court to be called the Court of
Private Land Claims, to consist of a Chief Justice and 'four
Associate Justices, who shall be, when appointed, citizens and
residents' of some of the States of the United States, to be

