OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

As this case was appealed under section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1891, upon a question of jurisdiction, no other question can be properly considered, and the -decree of the court
below must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case 'emanded for further _roceedings
in conformity with this opinion.
ME. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER dissented.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF PRIVATE LANID CLAIMS.
No. 591. Submitted October 9, 1894.- Decided October 29, 1894.

The provisions in the act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854, "to establish a court of private land claims and to provide for the settlement of
private land claims in certain States and Territories," authorizing this
court to amend the proceedings of the court below, and to cause additional testimony to be taken, are not mandatory, but only empower the
court to direct further proofs, and to amend the record, if in its judgment the case demands its interposition to that effect.
The judicial action of all inferior courts established by Congress may, in
accordance with the Constitution, be subjected to the appellate jurisdiction 5f the Supreme Court of the United States.
An appeal lies to this court from a judgment of the Court of Private Land
Claims over property in the Territories.

MOTION to dismiss for want of jurisdiction.
as follows:

The case was

On March 3, 1891, an act of Congress was approved, entitled
"An act to establish a Court of Private Land Claims, and to
provide for the settlement of private land claims in certain
States and Territories." 26 Stat. 854, c. 539.
By the first section it was provided: "That there shall be,
and hereby is, established a court to be called the Court of
Private Land Claims, to consist of a Chief Justice and 'four
Associate Justices, who shall be, when appointed, citizens and
residents' of some of the States of the United States, to be

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Statement of the Case.

appointed by the President, by and with the Advice and consent of the Senate, to hold their offices for the term expiring
on the thirty-first day of December, anno Domini eighteen
hundred and ninety-five ; any three of whom shall constitute
a quorum. Said court shall have and exercise jurisdiction in
the hearing and decision of private land claims according to
the provisions of this act."
Under section six it was made lawful "for any person or
persons or corporation, or their legal representatives, claiming
lands within the limits of the territory derived by the United
States from the Repnblic of Mexico and now embraced within
the Territories of New Mexico, Arizona, or Utah, or within
the States of Nevada, Colorado, or Wyoming. by virtue of any
such Spanish or Mexican grant, concession, warrant, or survey
as the United States are bound to recognize and confirm by
virtue of the treaties of cession of said country by Mexico to
the United States ivhich at the date of the passage of this act
have not been confirmed by act of Congress, or otherwise
finally decided upon by lawful authority, and which are not
already complete and perfect, in every uch case to present a
petition, in writing, to the said court in the State or Territory
where said land is situated and where- the said court holds its
sessions, but cases arising in the States and Territories in which
the court does not hold regular sessions may be instituted at
such place as may be designated by the rules of the court."
Section seven provided: "That all proceedings subsequent
to the filing of said petition shall be conducted as near as may
be according to the practice of the courts of equity of the
United States, except that the answer of the attorney of the
United States shall not be required to be verified by his oath,
and except that, as far as practicable, testimony shall be taken
in court or before one of the justices thereof. The said court
shall have full power and, authority to hear and determine all
questions arising in cases before it relative to the title to the
land the subject of such case, the extent, location, and boundaries thereof, and other matters connected therewith fit and
proper to be heard and determined, and by a final decree to
settle and determine the question of the validity of the title

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and the boundaries of the grant or claim presented for adjudication, according to the law of nations, the stipulations of the
treaty concluded between the United States and the Republic
of Mexico at the city of Guadalupe-HIidalgo, on the second day
of February, in the year of our Lord, eighteen hundred and
forty-eight, or the treaty concluded between the same powers
at the city of Mexico, on the thirtieth day of December, in the
year of our Lord, eighteen hundred and fifty-three, and the
laws and ordinances of the Government from which it is
alleged to have been derived, and all other questions properly
arising between the claimants or other parties in the case and
the United States, which decree shall in all cases refer to the
treaty, law, or ordinance under which such claim is confirmed
or rejected ; and in confirming any such claim, in whole or in
part, the court shall in its decree specify plainly the location,
boundaries, and area of the land the claim to which is so confirmed."
Under the eighth section, " a ny person or corporation claiming lands in any of the States or Territories mentioned in this
act under a title derived from the Spanish or Mexican government that was complete and perfect at the date when the
United States acquired sovereignty therein " was given the
right to apply to the court in the manner in the act provided
for other cases, for a confirmation of such title.
Section nine provided as follows: "That the party against
whom the court shall in any case decide - the United States,
in case of the confirmation of a claim in whole or in part, and
the claimant, in case of the rejection of a claim, in whole or
in part-shall have the right of appeal to the Supreme Court
of the United States, such appeal to be taken within six
months from date of such decision, and in all respects to be
taken in the same manner and upon the same conditions,
except in respect of the amount in controversy, as is now provided by law for th" taking of appeals from decisions of the
Circuit Courts of the United States. On any such appeal the
Supreme Court shall retry the cause, as well the issues of fact
as of law, and may cause testimony to be taken in addition
to that given in the court below, and may amend the record

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Argument for the Motion to Dismiss.

of the proceedings below as truth and justice may require;
and on such retrial and hearing every question, shall be open,
and the decision of the Supreme Court thereon shall be
final and conclusive. Should no appeal be taken as aforesaid
the decree of the court below shall be final and conclusive."
By paragraph five of section thirteen it was provided:
"No proceeding, decree, or act under this act shall conclude
or affect the private rights of persons as between each other,
all of which rights shall be reserved and* saved to the same
effect as if this act had not been passed ; but the proceedings,
decrees, and acts herein provided for shall be conclusive of all
rights as between the United States and all persons claiming
any interest or right insuch lands."
Section nineteen read thus: "That the po w'ers and functions
of the court established by this act shall cease and determine
on the thirty-first day of December, eighteen hundred and
ninety-five, and all papers, files, and records in the possession
of said court belonging to any other public office of the United
States shall be returned to such office, and all other papers,
files, and records in the possession of, or appertaining to said
court shall be rettirned to and filed in the Department of the
Interior."
The Court of Private Land Claims was accordingly duly
organized and upon the pleadings and evidence in this case
proceeded to a decree confirming a Mexican grant in favor of
the appellee to land in the Territory of Arizona. An appeal
having been duly prayed and allowed and the record having
been filed in this court, a motion to dismiss the appeal for
want of jurisdiction was submitted.
-Mr. E. .. Sanford, .Xr. A. -M.Stevenson, and -Hr. S. L.
Carpenterfor the motion.
I. Congress has no power to confer upon the Supreme
Court jurisdiction to entertain an appeal from a decision of
the Court of Private Land Claims, the latter tribunal not being
vested with judicial power in virtue of any provision of the
Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894
Argument for the Motion to Dismiss.

Former decisions of this court have clearly settled that there
are but two classes of courts that may be created by Congress,
in virtue of the powers granted it by the Constitution of the
United States. They are defined as constitutional courts, or
those created by virtue of section 1 of article 3 of the
Constitution, and "legislative courts," or those created or
authorized by Congress in virtue of the power granted by
sub-division 2 of section 3, article 4, of the Constitution, "to
make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory
or other property belonging to the United States."
As the act of March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 854, establishing the
Court of Private Land Claims, provides that the judges thereof
shall hold their offices for a term expiring on the 31st day of
December, 1895, it is clear that such tribunal is not a constitutional court. American Insurance Co. v. 356 Bales of
Cotton, 1 'Pet. 511, 546; Brenner v. Porter,9 How. 235, 242;
.McAllister v. United States, 141 U. S. 174.
That the Court of Private Land Claims does not fall within
the class denominated "legislative courts" would seem to be
equally, clear, inasmuch as Congress derives its power to create
such courts or to confer judicial power upon courts created by
other legislative bodies solely from that provision of the Constitution hereinbefore referred to, empowering Congress to
make rules and regulations respecting the territory belonging
to the United States. Cases cited supra; Clinton v. Engle7nreck, 13 Wall. 434, 447.
The purpose of the act creating the Court of Private Land
Claims is, as stated in its title," to provide for the settlement
of private land claims in certain States and Territories." No
jurisdiction is conferred upon the court by the act to administer the judicial power of the United States in respect of any
of their territory or property. The matters committed to
it by Congress for adjudication are such as might well have
been determined by Congress itself without recourse to judicial
agency, in carrying out, in good faith; the provisions of the
treaties made with Mexico, by virtue of which the government
acquired sovereignty over the territory in which these lands are
situated.

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Argument for the Motion to Dismiss.

As the Court of Private Land Claims is not a court in the
sense of having b.een vested with the judicial power of the
United States, it would seem to follow that Congress may not
impose upon this court the exercise of appellate jurisdiction
over its decisions. Gordon v. United States, 117. U. S. 697;
United States v. Ritchie, 17 How. 525; Hlayburn's Case, 2
Dall. 409; United States v. Ferreira,13 How. 40; In re Sanborn, 148 U. S. 222; Grisar v. .oDowell, 6 Wall. 363; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimon, 154- U. S. 447.
II. But should the court be of the opinion that the Court
of Private Land Claims is a tribunal bdministering the judicial
power of the United States, and thus a part of its judicial
system from which an appeal may be prosecuted to the
Supreme Court, then we contend that in prescribing the mode
of procedure in this court upon such appeal Congress has
transcended its powers and thus rendered nugatory the clause
in the act granting the right of appeal.
By section 9 of the act creating the court it is provided as
follows: "On any such appeal the Supreme Court shall retry
the cause, as well the issues of fact as of law, and may cause.
testimony to be taken in addition to that given in the court
below and may amend the record of the proceedings below as
truth and justice may re'quire ; and on such retrial and rehearing every question shall be open and the decision of the
Supreme Court thereon shall be final and conclusive." It is
clear from an examination of sub-divisions 1 and 2 of section
2, article 3, of the Constitution of the United States, that as to
such decree as may be rendered in controversies of this kind
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the United States is
appellate, only. Any act of Congress requiring the Supreme
Court to take original jurisdiction of such a matter would be
unconstitutional and void.
But the section of the act creating the Court of Private
Land Claims, above referred to, requires the Supreme Court
practically to try the cause the same as if it had originated in
that court. It shall retry the cause, and on such retrial "every
question shall be open." The requirement that it shall retry
the cause upon the issues of fact and of law probably would
VOL. CLV-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

not be obnoxious to its appellate jurisdiction if such retrial were
limited to the record as it was made in the lower court; but
when there is added to this the requirement that the court shall
cause additional testimony to be taken, (for a proper showing
having been made, this provision is undoubtedly mandatory,)
and that it shall rehear and redetermine every question that
may arise in the case the same as if it had not been litigated
in the court below, a burden is imposed upon the Supreme
Court of the United States not contemplated by the Constitution. The Congress of the United States cannot indirectly
place a burden upon this court that cannot be directly imposed
under the Constitution. lfiscart v. D'Auchy, 3 Dall. 321;
United States v. Pitchie, 17 1ow. 525; Grisarv. McDowell,
6 Wall. 363.
"It is the essential criterion of appellate jurisdiction that it
revises and corrects the proceedings in a cause already instituted and does not create that cause." .Zarbury v. .Madison,
1 Cranch, 137, 175.

I-AR.

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The motion to dismiss rests upon two grounds: 1. That the
Congress had no power to confer upon this court jurisdiction
to entertain an appeal from the decree of the Court of Private
Land Claims because the latter is not vested with judicial
power in virtue of any provision of the Constitution. 2. That
if this be not so, nevertheless the act creating that court, in
prescribing the course of procedure upon appeal, imposed upon
this court the exercise of original jurisdiction contrary to the
provisions of the Constitution, and that therefore no appeal
would lie.
The second of these grounds does not appear to us to afford
any support to appellee's contention. This is not one of the
cases within the original jurisdiction of this court, and if it be
one of those in respect of which the court has appellate jurisdiction, that jurisdiction exists "both as to law and fact, with
such exceptions, and under such regulations as the Congress
shall make."

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinionmof the Court.

If the paragraph in the ninth section of the act providing
that this court shall retry causes coming ui on appeal, "as
well the issues of fact as of law, and may cause testimoby .to
be taken in addition to that gien in the court below, ad may
amend the record of the proceedings below as truth.,and
justice may require; and on such retrial and hearing every
question shall be open," were obnoxious to the objection that
in whole or in part it was not such a xegulation as the Congress had power to enact, then the. section would to that
extent be invalid, but this would not take away the right of
appeal itself, nor could the question of such invalidity arise
except when particular action was asked under the clause.
We understand the suggestion as made to relate to the
authority to allow further proofs or the record to be amended.
Causes in the Court of Private Land Claims are in effect equity
causes .d brought to this court by appeal, and, as observed
by Chief Justice Ellsworth, in TViscart v. D'Auciy, 3 Dall. 321,
" an appeal is a process of civil law origin and removes a cause
entirely; subjecting the fact, as well as the law, to a review
and retrial; but a writ of error is a process of common law
and it removes nothing for examination but the.law."
The remedy by appeal in its original sense was' confined to
causes in equity, ecclesiastical, and admiralty jurisdiction.
Undoubtedly appellate courts proceeding according to the
course of the civil law may allow .parties to introduce .new
allegations and further proofs, and such hs been the settled
practice of the ecclesiastical courts in England and of the
admiralty courts in this country' Nevertheless, orders allow
ing this to be done are not granted as matter of course, but
made with extreme caution, and only on satisfactory grounds.
As to appeals to this court from the decrees of Circuit Courts
in equity causes, it was provided by the second section of the
act of Congress of March 3, 1803, c. 40, 2 Stat. 24-4, carried
forward into section 6.98. of the Revised Statutes, which was
the first enactment giving the remedy by appeal, "that no
new evidence shall be received -in the said court, on the -hearing of- such appeal, except in admiralty and rrize causes."
iolmes v. Trout; 7 Pet. 171 ; Mitehel v. United States, 9 Pet.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

711; Boone v. Chiles, 10 Pet. 177; Blease v. Garlington,92
U. S. 1. And in respect of the allowance of amendments,
when the ends of justice require it, the course has been to
remand the cause with directions. Wiggins Ferry 0o. v.
Ohio & .fississippi Railway, 142 U. S. 396, and cases cited.
Under what circumstances and to what extent the power to
amend the record of the proceedings below under this act, or
to cause additional testimony to be taken, was intended to be
exercised, we are not now called on to consider. The statute
is not mandatory, but empowers the court to direct further
proofs and to amend the record if in its judgment the case
demands its interposition to that effect, and, as the question
is one of power merely, and not properly arising for deter,ination on this motion, we need not prolong these observations.
•The principal ground relied on by appellee is that the
Court of Private Land Claims is not a tribunal vested with
judicial power in virtue of any provision of the Constitution,
and, therefore, the Congress had no power to confer upon
this court jurisdiction to entertain appeals from its decisions.
By article 8 of the treaty of Guadalupe-iidalgo and article
5 of the Gadsden treaty, the property of Mexicans within the
territory ceded by Mexico to the United States was to be
"inviolably respected," and they and their heirs and grantees
were to enjoy with respect to it "guaranties equally ample
as if the same belonged to citizens of the United States."
9 Stat. 922, 929, 930; 10 Stat. 1031, 1035. While claimants
under grants made by Mexico or the Spanish authorities prior
to the cession had no right to a judicial determination of
their claims, Congress, nevertheless, might provide therefor
if it chose to do so. Astiazaran, v. Santa Rita Land and
Xifining Co., 148 U. S. 80. And it was for this purpose that
the act of March 3, 1891, was passed, establishing the Court
of Private Land Claims for the settlement of claims against
the United States to lands "derived by the United States
from the Republic of Mexico, and now embraced within the
Territories of New Mexico, Arizona, or Utah, or within the
States of Nevada, Colorado, or Wyoming."

UNITED STATES v. COE.
Opinion of the Court.

The argument is that the court thus created, composed of
judges holding office for a time limited, is not one of the
courts mentioned in article 3 of the Constitution, whereby
the judicial power of the United States is vested in one
Supreme Court and in such inferior courts as Congress may
from time to time establish, the judges of which hold their
offices during good behavior, receiving at stated times for
their services a compensation that cannot be diminished during their continuance in office, and are removable only by
impeachment; and that the appellate power of this court
cannot be extended to the revision of the judgments and
decrees of such a court. Granting that the Court of Private
Land Claims does not come within the third article, the conclusion assumes either that the power of Congress to create
courts can only be exercised in virtue of that article, or,
that judicial tribunals otherwise established cannot be placed
under the supervisory power of this court.
It must be regarded as settled that section 1 of article 3
does not exhaust the power of Congress to establish courts.
The leading case upon the subject is American Insurance Co.
v. Canter, 1 Pet. 511, 546, in which it was held in respect
of territorial courts, Chief Justice Marshall delivering the
opinion, that while those courts are not courts in which the
judicial power conferred by article 3 can be deposited, yet
that they are legislative courts created in virtue of the general right of sovereignty which exists in the government over
the Territories, or of the clause which enables Congress to
make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory belonging to the United States. The authorities are
referred to and commented on by Mr. Justice Harlan in
.McAllister v. United S'tates, 141 U. S.174.
The case before us relates to the determination of a claim
against the United States to lands situated in the Territory
of Arizona, and, as it was clearly within the authority of
Congress to establish a court for such determination, unaffected by the definitions of article 3, the question is not
presented whether it was within the power of Congress to
create a judicial tribunal of this character for the determina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

tion of title to property situated in the States, where the
courts of the United States, proper, are parts of the Federal
system, "invested with the judicial power of the United
States expressly conferred by the Constitution, and to be
exercised in correlation with the presence and jurisdiction of
the several state courts and governments." Ilornbuckle v.
Toombs, 18 Wall. 648, 655.
And as wherever the United States exercise the power of
government, whether under specific grant, or through the
dominion and sovereignty of plenary authority as over the
Territories, Shively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, 48, that power
includes the ultimate executive, legislative, and judicial power,
it follows that the judicial action of all inferior courts established by Congress may, in accordance with the Constitution,
be subjected to the aplellate jurisdiction of the supreme judicial tribunal qf the government. There has never been any
question in regard to this as applied to territorial courts, and
no reason can be perceived for applying a different rule to
the adjudications of the Court of Private Land Claims over
property in the Territories.
The motion to dismiss is
Denied.

SIPPERLEY v. SMITH.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF'UTAH.
No. 688. Submitted October 15, 1894. - Decided October 29, 1894.

The rule reiterated that where a judgment or decree is joint, all the parties
against whom it is rendered must join in the writ of error or appeal,
unless there be summons and severance or the equivalent.
MOTION

to dismiss or affirm.

The court stated the case as

follows :
A. F. Sipperley and H. S. Lee, composing a partnership under
the firm name of A. F. Sipperley & Co., d6ing business in the
city of Salt Lake, Utah, made an assignment of their partner-

