UNITED STATES v. ALLRED.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. ALLRED.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 552. Submitted December 3, 1894. -Decided

January7, 1895.

A commissioner of a Circuit Court is an officer of the court, authorized by
law, and is entitled to his fees in the following cases when certified by
the court as correct:
(1) For entering on warrant the judgment of final disposition of a case,
when required by rule of court;
(2) For making transcripts of proceedings, when required by rule of
court, to be sent up to court;,
(3) For making and certifying copies of subpoenas for marshal to serve
on witnesses, when required by rule of court;
(4) For-making report to clerk of court and commissioner of internal
revenue of cases heard and disposed of under the internal revenue
laws, when required by rule of court;
(5) For making entries on the docket in various cases of the name of an
afflant, his official position, if any, date of issuing warrant, name
of defendant and witnesses, and final disposition of the case,
when required by rule of court.
He is also entitled to his fees for administering oaths to deputy marshals
to verify their accounts of service, when the regulations of the Department of Justice require such officers to certifly on oath that their
accounts rendered to the marshal are correct.

Tins was a claim for fees as commissioner of the Circuit
Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Appended to
the petition was a statement of the items of the petitioner's
account. The Court of Claims, upon the evidence, found the
facts to be as follows:
1. The claimant, John M. Allred, was a commissioner of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of Georgia from May 28, 1889, to March 31, 1892, duly
qualified and acting.
2. During said period he made up his accounts for services,
duly verified, and presented the same to the United States
court for approval in the presence of the district attorney, and
an order approving the same as being just and according to
law was entered of record. Said -accounts were then pre-

OCTOBER TER-M, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

sented to the accounting officers of the United States Treasury Department for payment. Part was paid, but payment
of the items embriced in finding 3 was refused.
3. (1) For entering on warrant the judgment of final disposition of the case, as required by rule of court, one folio
each, at 15 cents each, $53.55.
Rule 6 of the Circuit Court requiring this service is as
follows: . . . "And, after holding an examination, he
must enter in the blank on the back of the warrant his final
action, in which, if bound or committed, he shall specify the
particular offence or offences for which the party is held."
(2) For making transcript of proceedings in various cases,
as required by rule of court, to be sent up to court, at 15 cents
per folio, $62.65.
(3) For hearing and deciding on criminal charges in various
cases where the proceedings consisted of taking bail and passing on the sufficiency thereof, six days, at $5.00 per day
$30.00.
(4) For issuing separate warrants of arrest for certain
defendants charged with separate and distinct, offences committed at different times and places, at $1.00 each, entering
-return, 15 cents, and filing, 10 cents, $67.40.
(5) For drawing reports of attendance and mileage of witnesses, and orders for the marshal to pay each witness in
,duplicate, in excess of 60 cents in each case, and administering oath to witness, as to attendance and mileage, at 10 cents
each, $37.00.
(6) For making copy of each subpcena for marshal to serve
on the witness, at 10 cents per folio, with certificate, at 15
cents each as required by rule of court, $24.35.
(7) For issuing warrant of commitment of defendants to jail
for further examination in default of bail, entering return of
marshal, and filing same, at $1.25 each, $5.30.
The jailer would not receive a prisoner without a warrant
of commitment, and the marshal had no place to confine the
prisoner, outside of the jail.
(8) For. making report to clerk of court and Commissioner
of Internal Revenue of cases heard and disposed of under the

UNITED STATES v. ALLRED.
Opinion of the Court.

internal revenue laws, as required by rule of court, at 15 cents
per folio, $7.20.
(9) For administering oaths to deputy marshals to verify
their accounts of service, as required by the Attorney General
and accounting officers of the Treasury, at 10 cents each, and
drawing jurats to same, at 19 cents, $18.25.
(10) For making entries on the docket in various cases, consisting of name of affiant, his.official position, if any date of
issuing warrant, name of defendant and witnesses, and final
disposition of case, as required by rule of court, at 15 cents
per folio, $43.50.
(11) For filing and entering .131 separate papers filed in
various cases, at 10 cents each, $13.10.
(12) For administering oaths to witnesses to testify in various cases, at 10 cents each, $4.40.
Upon the foregoing findings of fact the court determined
as a conclusion of law that the claimant should recover, except for item 5 of finding 3, the sum of three hundred and
twenty-nine dollars and seventy cents, ($329.70,) for which
amount judgment was entered and defendant appealed.
.Mr. Assistant Attorney General -Dodge and -Mr. Charles W.
Russell for appellants.
.Mr. Charles 0. Lancasterfor appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRowN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Error is assigned only to the allowance of items 1, 2, 6, 8,
9, and 10 of the third finding.
1. All these items, except the ninth, relate to fees claimed
to be authorized by a rule of the court requiring the service
to be performed, and, therefore, allowable within the case of
United States v. Van Duzee, 140 U. S. 169, 173. In that case
we held, in reference to clerks' fees, that an order of court
requiring a service to be performed was sufficient authority
as between the clerk an& the government for the performance
of the service, and for the allowance of the proper fee thereVOL. CLV-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

for. No question is made but that the services in question
were performed in obedience to such an order.
A distinction, however, is claimed between the case of a
clerk, who is strictly a subordinate officer of the court, and a
commissioner, who, it is said, is a separate judicial officer, over
whom the court has no control. Acting under the constitutional provision, Art. 2, See. 2, authorizing it to vest the
appointment of -inferior officers in courts of law, Congress
provided, as early as 1-793, for the appointment by Circuit
Courts of "one or more discreet persons, learned in the law,
in any district for which said court is holden," for the taking of bail for the appearance of persons charged with crime,
which authority, however, was "revocable at the discretion
of such court." These officers took the name of "Commissioners," and from time to time their duties were extended
by different acts of Congress, until they have become an
important feature of the Federal judicial system. The present authority for their appointment is found in Rev. Stat.
§ 627, which authorizes each Circuit Court to appoint, "in
different parts of the district for which it is held, so many
discreet persons as it may deem necessary, who shall be
called 'commissioners of the Circuit Courts,' and shall exercise the powers which are or may be especially conferred
by law upon commissioners of Circuit Courts." The authority
given to the Circuit Courts by the original act of 1793, to
revoke these appointments at the discretion of the court, is
not found in the revision, but we held in .ExparteHennen,
13 Pet..230, that in the absence of a law fixing the tenure of
an office, and of any statutory provision as to the removal
of the officer, the power of removal was incident to the power
of appointment. A similar construction has been given in
other cases.

Blake v. United States, 103 U. S. 227; In re

Eaves, 30 Fed. Rep. 21.
The duties of these officers are prescribed by law, and they
are, in general, to issue warrants for offences against the
United States; to cause the offenders to be arrested and
imprisoned, or bailed, for trial, and to order the removal of
offenders to other districts, (Rev. Stat. § 1014;) to hold to

UNITED STATES v. ALLRED.
Opinion of the Court.

security of the peace and for good behavior, (§ 727;) to carry
into effect the award or arbitration, or decree of any consul
of any foreign nation; to sit as judge or arbitrator in such
differences as may arise between the captains and crews of
any vessels belonging to the nations whose interests are committed to his charge; and to enforce obedience by imprisonment until such award, arbitration, or decree is complied with,
(§728;) to take bail and affidavits in civil causes, (§ 945;) to
discharge poor convicts imprisoned for non-payment of fines,
(§1042;) to take oaths and acknowledgments, (§ 1778;) to
institute prosecutions under the laws relating to crimes
against the elective franchise, and civil rights of citizens, and
to appoint persons to execute warrants thereunder, (§ 1982
to 1985;) to issue search warrants authorizing internal revenue
officers to search premises, where a fraud upon the revenue
has been committed, (§ 3462;) to issue warrants for deserting
foreigi seamen, (§ 5280;) to summon masters of vessels to
appear before him and show cause why. process should not
issue against such vessel, (§ 4546;) to issue warrants for and
examine persons charged with being fugitives from justice,
(§§ 5270 and 5271,) and to take testinlony and proofs of debt
in bankruptcy proceedings, (§§ 5003 and 5076.)
While their -duties are thus prescribed by law, and while
they are, to a certain extent, independent in their statutory
and judicial action, there is no law providing how their duties
shall be performed ; and so far as relates to their administrative action, we think they were intended to be subject to the
orders and directions of the court appointing them. As was
said by this court in Grifin v. Thompson, 2 How. 244, 257,
"there is inherent in every court a power to supervise the
conduct of its oficers, and the execution of its judgments and
process. Without this power courts would be wholly impotent and useless." While no express power is given over these
officers by statute, their relations to the court are such that
some power of this kind must be implied. Though not
strictly officers of the court, they have always been considered in the same light as masters in chancery and registers
in bankruptcy, and subject to its supervision and control

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

What shall be the nature of the requirements in each particular case, must be left largely to the discretion of the court.
Certainly we cannot presume that the court will abuse its
discretion, or will act otherwise than is deemed conducive to
the public good.
As the items in question were approved by court, they are
presumptively correct, United States v. Jones, 134: U.S. 483,
and the Court of Claims did not err in allowing them.
2. This ruling covers all.but the 9th item, "for administering oaths to deputy marshals to verify their accounts of service, as required by the Attorney General, and the accounting
officers of the Treasury."
In the case of Uhnited States v. llcDermott, 140 IT. S. 151,
we held a commissioner and chief supervisor of elections to
be entitled to fees for drawing affidavits of supervisors as to
the actual performance of the services for which compensation was claimed by them, and for administering the oath
and drawing the jurat to such affidavits, upon the ground
that the Attorney General required these affidavits for the
protection of the government, and that it was no more than
right and just that it should pay for them. So also in United
States v. Van .Duzee, (140 U. S. 169, 171, item 3,) we held
that where there was an express act of Congress requiring
clerks, marshals, and district attorneys to render their
accounts to the court, and to prove in open court by oath, to
be attached to such account, that the service had been actually and necessarily performed, such officer had performed
his duty by rendering his account in proper form to the court
with. proper affidavit or oath, and was not further concerned
with the method of verification adopted by the government
for its own convenience, and was not liable for the expense
of entering the'orders of approval of such accounts.
As the regulations of the Department of Justice require
deputy marshals to certify on oath that the accounts rendered
to the marshal are correct, we. think this case is controlled by
those above cited, and that the court committed no error in
allowing the item.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Affirmed.

