PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

333

Syllabus.

Evidently he was not a man to invest $3000 in wild lands
and turn his back upon them for twenty-seven years. As was
said by this court in Underwood v. Dugan, 139 U. S. 380, 384,
"ownership of property implies two things -first, attention
to it; second, a discharge of all obligations, of taxation or
otherwise, to the State which protects it. When it appears
that one who now asserts a title to property, arising more
than the lifetime of a generation ago, has during all these
years neglected the property, and made no claim of title thereto, a reasonable presumption is that, whatever may be apparent on the face of the instrument supposed to create the title,
were the full facts known, factswhich cannot now be known
by reason of the death of the parties to the transaction, it
would be disclosed that no title was in fact obtained; or, if
that be not true, that he considered the property of such little
value that he abandoned it to the State which was protecting
it." Considering all the facts of this case, it is not a matter
of surprise that, when charged in this bill with having received
his deed without consideration, and with intent to defraud the
creditors of his brother Adolph, the defendant should not
have been called to testify in relation to the transaction. In
short, it would be -difficult to conceive of a clearer case of
estoppel inypais.
The decree of the court is therefore
Afflrmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
PENNSYLVANIA

ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COMPANY v. JONES.

RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STEWART.
COURT OF

THE DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.

Nos. 40, 41. Argued October 26, 29, 1894.- Decided December 10, 1894.

It is the duty of a railroad company, running its trains in connection with
other lines, and taking passengers and freight for transportation to
points upon connecting lines, to carry them safely to the end of its own

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Counsel for Parties.
line, and'there deliver them to the next carrier in the route beyond, and,
in the absence of a special agreement to extend its liability beyond its
own lines, such liability will not attach; and such agreement will not be
inferred from doubtful expressions or loose language, but it must be
established by clear and satisfactory evidence.
The evidence in this case is reviewed, and it is held not to establish a special
undertaking by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company that the plaintiffs
should be safely carried in the train of the Virginia Midland Railway
Company, while proceeding along the road of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, between the cities of Alexandria and Washington; but that there was evidence which would warrant a jury in
finding that the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, and the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company had made such a special undertaking, and
were jointly liable to the plaintiffs under it.
An advertisement by a railroad company that it runs or connects with trains
of another company, so as to form through lines, without breaking bulk
or transferring passengers, does not tend to show a contract between
the companies to share profits and losses.
When a railroad for which a receiver has been appointed is practically managed and controlled by the agents and employ~s of the company, and
the receiver's function as to business with connecting lines is restricted
to the receipt of its share of the net earnings, and a passenger who
receives an injury while being transported upon it to a connecting line,
brings an action against the company and other connecting lines to
recover damages therefor, there is no error in instructing the jury that
if they shall find the company guilty of negligence their verdict will
be against it.
In this case the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company further
set up that at the time of the happening of the injury causing the damages sued for, the road was in the hands of mortgage trustees, and that
it therefore was not then a common carrier. Held, there was evidence
which justified the court in submitting the question of the exclusive
possession by the trustees to the jury, and that there was no error in
instructing the jury that in order to acquit the company from responsibility, it should be shown that the management and operation of the
road was conducted by the trustees, to the entire exclusion of the company, its officers and board of directors, and that this fact was notorious and could be presumed to be known to the public.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr. Enoch Totten for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. TV. L. Cole and Yr. Willian A. Cook for defendants in
error.

PENNSYLVANIA. RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

335

Opinion of the Court.

MR.

JUSTICE SHmAs

delivered the opinion of the court.

These were suits brought in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and tried at special term, in July, 1885, based
upon allegations of personal injuries received by the plaintiffs
while in the performance of their duties as railway postal
clerks on the mail route which extended from Charlotte, N. C.,
to Washington, D. C.
The cases were tried together, and each of the plaintiffs
obtained a verdict and judgment, entered May 3, 1890, against
all of the defendants except the Virginia Midland Railway
Company. The other defendants, namely, the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company,
and the -Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, Appealed to said court in general term, where the judgment of
the special term was affirmed, and afterwards they caused the
cases to be brought here on writs of error.
The undisputed facts in the cases are substantially as follows:
About four miles from Washington, at a place known as Fourmile Run, the tracks of the Alexandria and Washington railroad wer6 laid through a short tunnel or culvert under a canal.
This culvert was not of sufficient width to permit trains to
pass each other therein, and the double tracks, which extended,
over the whole line, closely interlaced in the culvert, and for a
short distance from each end thereof, but each track remained
practically unbroken and independent, so that in passing this
point it was not necessary that a train on either track should
stop, provided no other train was upon or about to be upon
this portion of the road where the tracks converged. In or
near this culvert, at about 10 o'clock on the night of the 19th
of February, 1885, while the plaintiffs were engaged in the
performance of their duties as postal clerks in a car attached
to a north-bound passenger train of the Virginia Midland Railway Company, a collision occurred upon the interlaced tracks,
between that train and a fast-freight train of the Alexandria
and Fredericksburg Railway Company, bound south, which
resulted in the death of four persons and in serious injuries to
each of the plaintiffs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The essential allegations of both declarations filed by the
plaintiffs were that all of the defendant companies were engaged, as common carriers, in the transportation of passengers,
persons, and freight upon and along the several lines of the
railroads belonging to them, and along the line, among others,
of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, under
an arrangement or contract for their common b.enefit, by which
they were interested jointly in the running and management
of their roads, and that through the negligence of the defendant companies the collision occurred which caused the injuries
complained of.
The defendants all appeared to the action and severally put
in pleas of not guilty, and afterwards, upon leave granted 'by
the court, each company filed an additional plea averring that
"it was not at the time of the alleged injury and never was
a common carrier of passengers and freight in manner and
form as in said declaration alleged."
A large amount of evidence was put in on behalf of the
plaintiffs for the purpose of sustaining their allegations of
negligence on the part of employ~s of one or more of the
defendant companies, and to show that the roads owned by
those companies were operated in connection with each other
on joint account, or that there was such community of interests
among them as would make all of them liable for the acts of
agents or employis of one.
The Virginia Midland Railway Company introduced evidence
which tended to prove that its road extended no farther north
than Alexandria, and that its trains were run over the roads
of the other companies under an arrangement by which it
paid certain prices per passenger and per ton of freight for
the running privileges given it, and by which it was required
to admit on board its north-bound trains at Alexandria an
agent of the company or companies which controlled the road
north of that place, who had therefrom the exclusive direction
of the trains. It appeared, however, that although such agent
was on the passenger train in question, employ~s of the
Virginia Midland Railway Company performed the actual
work of controlling the train.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

337

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence on the part of the other defendants was directed
mainly to showing that at the time of the collision the road
of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company and
the franchises necessary for its operation were in the hands
of a receiver, appointed by the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia; that the company
had no rolling stock, but that the receiver permitted other
roads to use its tracks under certain agreements which had
been made between that company and other companies before
his appointment; and that the business of the Alexandria and
Fredericksburg Railway Company was being carried on by
trustees who were possessed of the property and franchises
of this company by virtue of a deed of trust executed by it on
June 1, 1866, to secure the payment of the principal and interest
-of certain of its first-mortgage bonds.
Many exceptions were taken by the defendants during the
trial to the admission and rejection of evidence, to the refusal
of the court to give the jury certain instructions proposed by
them, and to the giving of other instructions against their
objections. These exceptions constitute the grounds of the
assignments of error.
The suits were brought against the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
of Pennsylvania; the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of
Maryland and acts of the Congress of the United States; the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, the Virginia
Mlidland Railway Company, and the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company, which three last-mentioned
companies were corporations organized under the laws of the
State of Virginia.
The theory upon which the plaintiffs proceeded, in including these five companies in the actions, was thus expressed in
the declarations:
"For that heretofore, to wit, on the 19th day of February,
1885, and prior thereto, the said defendants were engaged as
common carriers in the transportation of passengers, persons,
and freight upon and along the several lines of railroad beVOL. CLV-22

OCTOBER TERMf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

longing to said companies, and, among others, along the line
of the road of the said Alexandria and Washington Railroad
Company, running between the cities of Alexandria and Washington, under an arrangement or contract for their common
benefit, the full and exact terms of which are unknown to
this plaintiff, and by which they were jointly interested in the
running and management of the said railroads."
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company filed a plea of not
guilty, and a special plea that said company "was not, at the
time of the alleged injury, and never was, a common carrier
of passengers and freight, in manner and form as in said
declaration alleged."
After the testimony was closed on both sides the counsel of
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company moved the court to instruct the jury that, upon the pleadings and evidence,, the said
company was entitled to a verdict in its favor. To the refusal
of the court to grant such instruction, exception was duly
taken, and that action of the court is here assigned for error.
As it is not pretended that there was not evidence sufficient
to warrant the jury in finding that the plaintiffs' injuries were
caused by carelessness in the management of one or both of
the trains, our inquiry must be directed to the other issue,
that is, whether it was shown, by competent evidence, that
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company was engaged, at the
time of the accident, as a common carrier in the transportation of freight and passengers along the line of the road of
the Alexandria and Washington Raih'oad Company, running
between the cities of Alexandria and Washington, under an
arrangement or contract with the other companies defendant
for their common benefit, and by which they were jointly
interested in the running and management of said railroad.
It is conceded, or sufficiently appears in the evidence, that
the running and management of the road of the Alexandria
and Washington Railroad Company were not within the scope
of the ordinary powers of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
as a corporation of the State of Pehinsylvania. To render the
latter company responsible for what might take place on a

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

339

Opinion of the Court.

railroad in another State some contract or arrangement to
that effect must be made to appear.
It is also disclosed by the evidence that neither of the
trains, by whose mismanagement the accident was caused,
was a train belonging to the Pennsylvania Railroad Company,
and that the men in charge were not in the immediate employ of that company.
The general principles applicable to the present inquiry are
well settled, and have. frequently been declared by this court.
In Railroad Co. v. .Manufacturing Co., 16 Wall. 318, 324, it
was said: "It is the duty of the carrier, in the absence of any
special contract, to carry safely to the end of his line and to
deliver to the next carrier in the route beyond. This rule of
liability is adopted generally by the courts in this country,"
and "is in itself so just and reasonable that we do not hesitate
to give it our sanction." And in Railroad Co. v. Pratt,22
Wall. 123,-129, it was said: "The fair result of the American
cases limits the carrier's liability as such, when no special contract is made, to his own line." These cases were followed in
.Myricl v. .Michigan.C6ntral -ailroadCo., 107 U. S. 102, 107,
and it was there said- "In the absence of a special agreement
to extend the carrier's liability beyond his own route, such
liability will not attach, and the agreement will not be inferred from doubtful expressions or loose language, but only
from clear and satisfactory evidence."
Was there shown, then, in the present case, a special contract or undertaking by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
that the plaintiffs should be safely carried in the train of the
Virginia Midland Railway Company, while proceeding along.
the road of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, between the cities of Alexandria and Washington?
There was no attempt to show any such contract or agreement between these plaintiffs and the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company. The liability of the latter is sought to be found
in an alleged existing agreement between that company and
the other companies defendant, whereby the said companies
were "jointly interested in the running and management of
said railroads."

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Moreover, it was not claimed that this alleged agreement
was in writing or was to be found in any resolution of the
board of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. Indeed, the
averment of the declaration was that "the full and exact
terms of the alleged contract were unknown to the plaintiffs."
The right of recovery in this case against the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company was rested by the plaintiffs.entirely upon
supposed business relations existing, at the time of the accident, between the railroad companies defendant. It is necessary, therefore, that they should point to evidence satisfactorily
establishing the existence and nature of those business relations. A careful consideration of the evidence appearing in
the record has failed to satisfy us that there existed a contract
or agreement between these railroad companies upon which
liability on the part of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
can be based. Let us briefly consider the particulars of the
evidence relied on by the plaintiffs.
The annual reports to the stockholders of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company were put in evidence. That of Mfarch 2,
1885, contained the following statement:
"The board herewith submit their report for 1884, with
such data relating to the lines controlled by your company as
will give you a clear understanding of their physical and
financial condition."
Also the following:
"The Baltimore and Potomac Railroad connects your line
with Washington and the South."
And from the report of March, 1886, the following quotation w)as cited :
"The board herewith submits its report for the year 1885,
with such data as relate to the lines embraced in your system
as will give you a clear understanding of their physical and
financial condition."
It was also shown by said report that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company owned, on December 31, 1885, $1,000,000 of
the bonds of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway
Company, and $2,000,000 of the bonds of the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Company, and 60,852 shares of the Balti-

PENNSYLYAMNI

RAILRO.ID CO. v. JONES.

3-1

Opinion of the Court.

more and Potomac Railroad Company's stock, and 217,819
shares of the stock of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad Company.
A railroad map showing a continuous line of railroad between Philadelphia and Quantico, with letters signifying that
the roads embraced therein were the Philadelphia, Wilmington
and Baltimore, the Baltimore and Potomac, the Alexandria
and Washington, and the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Companies, was put in evidence.
It was also proved that a ticket issued by the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company was sold in Baltimore, at the office of the
Northern Central Railroad Company, on account of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company, and it was likewise proved that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company owndd
stock in the Alexandria and Washington and the Alexandria
and Fredericksburg Railway Companies, and that some persons who were officers of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
were likewise officers of these companies. It was also shown
that the employ~s of the Baltimore and Potomac, the. Alexandria and Washington, and the Alexandria and Fredericksburg roads were paid from a pay-car, whose brakeman and
conductor wore a blue uniform with silver buttons, which was
said to be the uniform of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
Newspaper advertisements were put in evidence, calling the
attention of the travelling public to the Great Pennsylvania
Route to the Northwest and the Southwest, and it was shown
that James R. Wood was general passenger agent, and Charles
E. Pugh general manager, of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, stationed at Washington; and it likewise appeaxed
that they occupied similar positions in- the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore, the Baltimore and Potomac, Alexaijdria and Washington, and the Alexandria and Fredericksburg companies.
John S. Barbour testified that he had acted for some years
as president and receiver of the Virginia MAidland Railway
Company, his official relations with that company ceasing in
the latter part of 1884. His testimony was to the effect that
he had made arrangements for the running of the trains of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Courm.

Midland Railway Company over the road between Alexandria
and Washington. He says that there was no contract ever
signed, but that his conversations were with officers of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, particularly naming Mr.
Scott and Mr. Roberts, the latter being president of both the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the Alexandria and
Fredericksburg Railway Company; that the Pennsylvania authorities were running the Baltimore and Potomac, and a
through line from New York to Quantico; that the Midland
Railway Company was to pay 35 cents for each passenger
and so much on freight for each carload or by the ton; that
the Midland Railway Company used their own rolling stock
and crews. He furtherstated that he would not say to whom or
to what companies his company paid compensation for the use
of the road, and that his recollection of the details of the agreement was indistinct, as it was made in 1876. On cross-examination he stated that his company settled accounts with the
officers of the Baltimore and "Potomac Railroad Company or
those of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company.
The plaintiffs further gave evidence to show that on the
arrivals of the trains of the Virginia Midland Railway Company at Alexandria they were turned over to the authorities
operating said roads between that place and Washington, and
run between those two points both ways under the absolute
control of the last-named parties, who had the right to and
did place a pilot in charge of said trains to run the same
between those points; that said pilots were sometimes employ~s of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, and
sometimes of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company; that all other persons engaged in running said Virginia
Midland trains were employ~s of the last-named company;
that the pilot who took charge of the Virginia Midland train
on which plaintiffs were, on the 19th day of February, 1885,
when it arrived at Alexandria, and under whose direction and
control it was at the time and place of the accident, was
Charles F. Bennett., whose uniform was such as is worn by the
.employ~s of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, except that
on the buttons were the letters "B & P," and whose name

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

343

Opinion of the Court.

was on the pay-rolls of, and he was paid by, the Alexandria
and Fredericksburg Railway Company.
In connection with the foregoing there was evidence, proceeding partly from both parties, tending to show that the
mails over said route between Alexandria and Washington
were carried, not under any express contract, but under the
general statutes, and the arrangement of the government for
carrying all mails, either through or local, between Washington and Alexandria, was with the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, and that road was paid for
transporting for the quarter beginning January 1 and ending
March 31, 1885, by drafts or checks, and that no other railroad was paid by the United States for conveying mails
between said points; that said sum so paid was divided
among the Alexandria and Washington, Alexandria and
Fredericksburg, and the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad
Companies; that about the time of said collision, and for some
time prior thereto, both freight and passenger trains passed
over the road between Alexandria and Washington, some of
them hauled by engines marked B. and P., some of them
marked A. and F., and some passenger trains marked B. and
P.; that the compensation paid by the Virginia Midland
Railway Company for the privilege of running its trains
between Washington and Alexandria was 35 cents per passenger and. $4 per carload of freight, which was paid by it
periodically to J. S. Lieb, the treasurer of the Alexandria and
Washington, Alexandria and Fredericksburg, and Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Companies.
The plaintiffs further showed that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company paid consignees for goods destroyed in the
collision, and then made demand upon Wilkins, the receiver
of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, for
reimbursement, and claimed this fact as admission that the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company was a common carrier of
these goods at the time and place of destruction.
The foregoing is a condensed statement of the evidence
relied on as establishing such a relation between the railroad
companies, owning the roads and managing the trains at the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

time and place of collision, and the Pennsylvania Railroad
Company, as to make the latter responsible to the plaintiffs
for their injuries.
Some of this evidence was objected to by the counsel of
the Pennsylvania IRailroad Company as incompetent for the
purpose for which it was offered. But we do not deem it
necessary to critically examine these objections. Taking the
plaintiffs' evidence as a whole, and supplementing it with
such -facts, favorable to them, as appear in the defendants'
evidence, we are unable to see that a case was made out as
against the Pennsylvania iRailroad Company.
That the Pennsylvania Railroad Company owned stock
and bonds of some of the other companies defendant did not
tend to show a partnership or agreement to run the roads
of the latter on common account. Such ownership rather
went to explain why some of the officers of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company held official positions in the other companies, and to show why their officers were consulted about
the arrangement made between th- Alexandria and Washington, the Alexandria and Fredericksburg, the Baltimore and
Potomac Railroad Companies, and the Virginia Midland Railway Company, for the use by the latter of the roads of the
former between the cities of Alexandria and Washington, as
testified to by J. S. Barbour, and also explains the references
made in the reports of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
to these roads as connecting with their system.
That the Pennsylvania Railroad Company paid consignees
for goods destroyed in the collision, may justify an inference
that there was some agreement between the owners of the
goods and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company that the
latter should be responsible for the goods beyond their own
line, but, in that event, the responsibility arose out of such
contract, and not out of a contract between the railroad companies. It was, indeed, contended that the act of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in demanding reimbursement
from the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company for
a proportion of such payment is indicative of an existing
arrangement between the companies for dividing such losses.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

345

Opinion of the Court.

But an examination of the evidence, in this particular, plainly
shows that, though the words "proportion due" appear at
the head of the column stating the amount demanded, yet
that the actual demand was for the entire loss, and not for a
part or proportion thereof. Such a demand, therefore, is evidence that no agreement existed for a participation in losses.
That the Pennsylvania Railroad Company advertised that
it ran trains, or connected with trains of other companies, so
as to form through lines, without breaking bulk or transferring passengers, did not tend to show any contract or agreement between the companies to share profits and losses. Nor
was there evidence, in the present case, that there was any actual participation by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the
earnings of the other companies which used the road between
the cities of Alexandria and Washington. On the contrary,
the evidence affirmatively showed that such earnings, including what was paid by the United States for the transportation
of mails, were divided between the other companies, and went,
none of them, to the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
Without dwelling longer on this feature of the case, our
conclusion is, that the Pennsylvania Railroad Company was
entitled to the peremptory instruction asked for in its favor.
Our views respecting the exceptions urggd on behalf of the
other plaintiffs in error are briefly expressed as follows: There
was evidence .from which the jury might properly infer that
the railroad between the cities of Alexandria and Washington
was managed and controlled for the common use of the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, (owning that portion
of the route that lies between Washington and the south end
of the Long Bridge,) the Alexandria and Washington Railroad
Company, (owning that portion between the south end of the
Long Bridge and St. Asaph's Junction,) and the Alexandria and
Fredericksburg Railway Company (owning the line between
St. Asaph's Junction and Alexandria); that the gross earnings
of these companies, derived from this line between Alexandria
and Washington, including what the Virginia Midland Railway Company paid for the privilege of running its trains over
these tracks and what was received for transportation of mails,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

went into the hands of a common treasurer, and were by him,
after paying operating expenses, divided among the three
companies, according to some rule, not very definitely shown,
but apparently in proportion to the miles of track of each
road; that the operating and accounting officers of the three
companies were the same; that the freight train in question
was, at the time of the collision, on that portion of the road
which belonged to the Alexandria and Washington Railroad
Company; that the engineer and fireman were employ~s of
the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company; that the
engine was that of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company; that the conductor and brakemen were
employ6s of that company; and that the passenger train
was in charge of a pilot employed and paid by the three companies, in pursuance of an arrangement to that effect.
Such a state of facts would, we think, warrant a finding of
joint liability of these three companies to the plaintiffs, unless
certain facts put in evidence by the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company and by the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company exonerate them respectively from such
liability.
The Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company filed
a plea of not guilty, and likewise a plea denying that said
company was, at the time of the alleged injury, a common
carrier of passengers and freight in manner and form as in
the declaration alleged.
In support.of the issues thus formed, the Alexandria and
Washington Railroad Company put in evidence a record of
the"Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Virginia, showing that in a suit of Alexander Hay against
said company,-on January 19, 1882, George C. Wilkins was
appointed receiver of said company, and was directed, after
giving bond, to take possession of the railroad,-tracks, engines,
and property, real and personal, to the company belonging,
and to run and operate said railroad for the carriage of
freight and passengers, and to make from time to time all needful and proper traffic arrangements with other roads for the
exchange of business; and it was further thereby ordered that

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

347

Opinion of the Court.

said receiver should, as soon as may be, make and file with
the clerk of the court an inventory of all the real and personal
property that came into his possession as receiver. The said
defendant further gave evidence tending to show that said
receiver, on the 19th day of Sune, 1882, took possession of
said railroad in pursuance of said decree, and had exclusively
held possession and operated and maintained said railroad
until after the 19th day of February, 1885 ; that the inventory
of property received by him, which was put in evidence, disclosed, among other things, a single track from Duke Street
in Alexandria to St. Asaph's Junction, and a double track
from the said junction to the south end of the Long Bridge,
with sidings, bridges, etc. The evidence further tended to
show 'that said company had no cars, engines, or rolling stock
when the receiver took possession, and that none was acquired
afterwards; that the receiver made all his returns of money
received to the said Circuit Court, and that such moneys were
carried through certain arrangements existing with the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, the Virginia Midland
Railway Company, and with DuBarry and Green, trustees
of the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company;
that under this arrangement the gross receipts of the operation of the route between Alexandria and Washington went
into the hands of J. S. Lieb, treasurer, and through a common
auditor the net proceeds were distributed pro rata, and to the
receiver was paid the pro rata share of the Alexandria and
Washington road.
Thereupon the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Comapany moved the court to instruct the jury that said company
was, upon the pleadings and evidence, entitled to a verdict
in its favor, and also moved the court to instruct the jury that
if they were satisfied from the evidence that all the property
of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company was,
at the time of the accident, in the exclusive control of George
C. Wilkins, the receiver thereof, appointed by the Circuit Court
of the United States, the verdict must be in favor of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company.
Both these prayers for instructions were refused by the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and the case was submitted to the jury under instructions,
whose validity is brought before us by the bills of exception.
The plaintiffs, to overcome this evidence on behalf of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, put in evi.dence a report made to the board of public works of the State
of Virginia, signed and sworn to by John S. Lieb, treasurer,
and H. H. Carter, superintendent of the Alexandria and
Washington Railroad Company, for the year 1885. In this
report nothing is said about an existing receivership, and there
are statements of expenses in repairing engines and tenders,
and in paying conductors, engineers, and firemen. It was also
shown that at a meeting of the board of directors of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, held in Philadelphia on November 27, 1876, John Sr. Lieb was appointed
agent to receive and receipt for moneys due or to become due
the company for transportation of mails between Washington
and Alexandria; and that the warrants on the United States
Treasury, in payment for carrying the mail between Alexandria
and Washington for the quarter ending March 31, 1885, were
made payable to the order of John S. Lieb, agent of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company. It also was
made to appear, by the testimony of Wilkins, the receiver,
that he did not make the arrangement by which the trains
of the Virginia Midland Railway Company, of the Alexandria
and Fredericksburg Railway Company, and of the Baltimore
and Potomac Railroad Company ran over the road of the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, but that he
found an arrangement under which this was done when he
was appointed, and he permitted it to continue; that he sold
no tickets over the Alexandria and Washington railroad; that
the Alexandria and Washington railroad had no rolling stock
or 'eiploy6s in his employment or control as receiver; that
he did not know which of the said companies, the Alexandria
and Fredericksburg, furnished the rolling stock and employ~s
to run the local trains over the Alexandria and Washington
railroad while he was receiver.
Upon the issue thus formed by the pleadings and evidence,
the court below instructed the jury as follows:

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

349

Opinion' of the Court.

"The Alexandria *and Washington Railroad Company
makes the plea that it was not a common carrier on the road
at the time and place of the accident in question, because,
they say, the road between Alexandria and Washington was
at the time under the control of a receiver theretofore duly
appointed. It is not disputed that Mr. Wilkins had been
appointed receiver, and held his office at the time of the
accident. The question now is whether he alone is liable for
injuries received on the road by reason of negligence, or
whether the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company
is not liable, notwith.standing the receivership.
"If you find from the evidence that the Alexandria and
Washington Railroad Company was carrying the United
States mail between Alexandria and Washington, and the
plaintiffs were in charge thereof as postal clerks, duly commissioned and designated by the United States for that duty, and
the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company was paid
by the United States by drafts payable to the order of the
agent of that company appointed by its board of directors to
receive the same, and.that the freight and passenger trains,
which collided and caused the injury to the plaintiffs, were
running over said road under an arrangement made by the
parties in control of said road prior to the appointment of the
receiver of said road, and if when the receiver was appointed
he continued in office as superintendent, general manager,
and treasurer, the same persons as had heretofore discharged
the duties of these positions, and if the business of this railroad, so far as was known to the public, was continued in the
same way, so far as the general public could know, as before,
and was so conducted at the time of the accident, and the
only substantial duty that the receiver discharged was to
receive the net earnings of the road from the treasurer and
to account therefor to the court by which he was appointed,
then if you shall find that the Alexandria and Washington
Railroad Company was guilty of negligence, from the evidence
and under the instructions of the court, your verdict will be
against it, and for the plaintiffs.
"But if you are satisfied that the business on the Alex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

andria and Washington Railroad, so far as the interests of
the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company were
concerned, was conducted by the receiver after his appointment, and to the time of the collision, in his own name and
-in such manner that it could be generally known by the public
that he and not the company conducted the business and controlled the road and its management, and that he did so to
the entire exclusion of any control or participation by the
Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company, its officers
and board of directors, then your verdict should be for the
Washington and Alexandria Railroad Company."
We do not think that the court erred in admitting evidence
tending to show that, practically, the road was managed and
controlled by the agents and employ~s of the company, and
that the receiver's functions were restricted to the receipt of
its share of the net earnings, and, with such evidence before
the jury, we do not perceive any substantial error in the instructions given to the jury. It could not be safely said that,
in no case, evidence should be received to show that a receiver
contented himself with receiving a share of the net earnings
of a railroad which he permitted to ba managed by the officers and employes of the company owning the road, in connection with those of other companies having a common
interest.
A similar question was decided by this court in the case of
-RailroadCompany v. Brown, 17 Wall. 445, 450. There a
railroad was run on the joint account of lessees on the Virginia end of the road, and of the receiver on the end in the
District. A suit was brought against the railroad company
by a passenger, who recovered a verdict and judgment. It
was urged in this court, in pursuance of exceptions duly taken,
that the railroad company was not liable for anything done
while the road was operated by the lessees and the receiver,
and it was said through Mr. Justice Davis:
"It is the accepted doctrine in this country that a railroad
corporation cannot escape the performance of any duty or
obligation imposed by its charter or the general laws of the
State by a voluntary surrender of its road into the hands of

PENNSYLVANIA. RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

351

Opinion of the Court.

lessees. The operation of the road by the lessees does not
change the relations of the original company to the public.
It is argued, however, that this rule is not applicable where
the proceeding, instead of being voluntary, is compulsory, as
in the case of the transfer of possession to a receiver by a
decree of a court of competent jurisdiction. Whether this be
so or not, we are not called upon to decide, because it has
never been held that the company is relieved from liability
unless the possession of the receiver is exclusive, and the
servants of the road wholly employed and controlled by him.
In this case the possession was not exclusive, nor were the
servants subject to the receiver's order alone. On the contrary,
the road was run on the joint account of the lessees and the
receiver, and the servants employed and controlled by them
jointly. Both were, therefore, alike responsible for the act
complained of, and if so, the original company is also responsible, for the servants under such an employment, in legal
contemplation, are as much the servants of the company as of
the lessees and receiver."
Nor is it apparent that, in the present case, it is at all important to the receiver or to the company whether the one or
the other was made nominal defendant. Upon the theQry of
the plaintiffs' case that there was a joint liability on the part
of the companies defendant for losses incurred in the management of the road, it would seem to make no difference whether
the share or proportion'of the loss chargeable to the Alex..
andria and Washington railroad is deducted by the common
treasurer from the share of the net earnings coming to the
receiver, as is now the case, or should be deducted by the
latter as part of his expenses, as would have been the case if
he, as receiver, had been sued, instead of the company.
,A special plea was likewise filed by the Alexandria and
Fredericksburg Railway Company, claimiig immunity, because their railroad was, at the time of the collision, in the
possession and control of trustees.
Under this plea it was shown that the company, on June 1,
1886, executed a deed of trust to secure payment of the princip:d and interest of bonds to the amount of one million of

OCTOBER TERMif, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

dollars, and that DuBarry and Green were trustees, under the
provisions of said deed and of certain orders of the county
court of Alexandria County, in the State of Virginia. There
was also evidence given tending to show that the said trustees
took possession of said road on December 6, 1872, and all of
its property, and held, used, and operated the same up to
and beyond the time of the said collision, and that, at the
time of said collision, the said Alexandria and Fredericksburg
Railway Company had in its possession no cars, engines, or
rolling stock, and that the trustees in possession under said
deed of trust, as aforesaid, did, in January, 1875, appoint
George C. Wilkins superintendent of said Alexandria and
Fredericksburg railway and property, and that said Wilkins
had exclusive possession and management of the road.
On the part of the plaintiffs it was shown that the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company made a report
to the board of public works of the State of Virginia for the
year of 1885, sworn to by the president and general superintendent of the company, in which there is no reference to the
alleged possession by trustees, but it does contain detailed
statements of the property of the company, including cars
and engines, and of the number of passengers and tons of
freight carried, and of the various expenditures on account
of repairs.
It was further shown that the engine that hauled the
freight train that figured in the collision
belonged to the
Railway Company.
and Fredericksburg
Alexandria
The Alexandria
and Fredericksburg Railway Company requested the court to charge the jury that if they should find
that the property of the company was in the exclusive possession and control of the trustees, and that the company did
not, by its servants, agents, or otherwise, exercise any authority or control over the road between St. Asaph's Junction
and Alexandria, after the receiver of the Alexandria and
Washington Railroad Company took possession of that line,
the verdict must be for the Alexandria and Fredericksburg
Railway Company.
The court instructed the jury as follows:

PE-NSYLVANIA RAILROAD CO. v. JONES;

353

Opinion of the Court.

"The Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway Company
also pleads that it was not a common carrier on the road
when the accident occurred, in addition to the plea of not
guilty, and upon this trial it supports this plea by showing
that its road, at the time of the accident and for some time
before, had been in the possession of trustees, by virtue of the
provisions of a deed of trust*executed by the company to
secure its indebtedness, the condition of which had been
broken by the maturity and non-payment of the debt so
secured.
"In order that the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Company be acquitted from responsibility for this reason, it
should, in any event, appear that, in fact, the business of
management and operation of the road was conducted by the
trustees to the entire exclusion of the company, its officers,
and board of directors, and that this was so notoriously so
that the fact may well- be presumed to be known to the
public. Besides, it should appear that the trustees were not
appointed by the procuration or assent of the railroad company, for, if so, the trustees would be as much the agents
of the company as of the grantees in the trust deed. The
Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of Virginia, in an 4ction
brought against the Alexandria and Fredericksburg Railway
Company for personal injuries resulting from negligence on
the road while in the possession of trustees by virtue of a
deed of trust, under conditions precisely similar to those
shown in this case, held that 'no provision is found in .the
charter of the defendant company, or the general railroad law
of Virginia, which will authorize the company to transfer to
trustees or to mortgagees, under the deed of trust given as
a mere incumbrance and security, the right and legal capacity to step into the shoes of -the company, and assume and
exercise indefinitely the franchises, rights, and privileges of
the company, so as to give the company exemption and
immunity from responsibility for all injuries inflicted by the
operation of the road by trustees.' I quote this language for
convenience and accuracy, and adopt it, and give it to vou as
the law in this case. It follows that the Alexandria and
VOL. CLv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Fredericksburg Company cannot be excused from liability
because of any possession shown in trustees."
An examination of the trust deed discloses a provision that
the trustees, in case of default for a period of ninety days,
aind on the request in writing of the holders of the bonds,
might take possession of the railroad and appoint agents to
conduct its affairs;, and it was claimed that the court might
presume that the possession of the trustees, relied on to defeat
the suit against the company, was in pursuance of that provision.
However this may be, we think that there was evidence
which justified the court in submitting the question of the
exclusive possession by the trustees to the jury, and that the
instructions given were not erroneous in any substantial particular. The observations already made respecting the similar
claim on behalf of the receiver of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company are applicable here, but need not
be repeated.
Judgment of the general tern? of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia reversed, and case remanded to that
court with directionsto set aside the judgment of the special
term, and to permit the plaintiffs to elect to become nonsuit
as against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and take
judgment on the verdict against the other defendants, and,
if they do not so elect, then to set aside the verdict and
order a new trial generally.

LAKE SUPERIOR SHIP CANAL, RAILWAY AND
IRON COMPANY v. CUNNINGHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THr

WESTERN DISTRICT OF M1ICHIGAN:
No. 49. Argued November 2, 5, 1894. - Decided December 10, 1S94.

The grant of public lands to Michigan in the act of June 3, 1856, c. 44, II
Stat. 21, to aid in the construction of "railroads from Little Bay de
Noquet to Marquette, and thence to Ontonagon, and from the two last
named places to the Wisconsin state line," was a grant in prcesenti, which

upon the filing of the map of definite location, November 30, 1857,

