OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

store, and that they were there at the time of the reappraisements;" but it does not affirmatively show that the collector
deemed it necessary that all the cases should be examined,
while, as a matter of convenience, by having all sent there,
(and there were but seven,) the general appraiser and the merchant appraiser could open and examine each case if either of
them deemed it necessary, or if the importer desired them to
do so, or informed them that the packages differed in value.
The collector could have directed all the cases to be opened
and examined, or either of the appraisers could have done it;
but it would be going an inadmissible length to hold that the
mere fact that the cases were sent to the public store necessarily amounted to a specific direction by the collector that all
should be examined, and if all were not, (although the appraisers did not deem it necessary and no demand by the importer
to have them all sent there for that purpose was shown,) that
jurisdiction failed and the reappraisement was illegal. We are
of opinion that the Circuit Court rightly directed a verdict for
the defendant.
Judgment affirrned.
MUSER v. MAGONE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. ST. Argued October 25, 1894. -Decided

December 3,1894.

The valuation of imported merchandise by designated officials is conclusive
in the absence of fraud, when the official has power to make it.
In case of disagreement between the general appraiser and the merchant
appraiser in regard to the true market value of imported goods, the
decision of the collector is final and fixes the valuation.
In this case the appraisers evidently considered that the market value of
the goods could be satisfactorily ascertained by the method which they
pursued, and their determination, in the absence of fraud cannot be

impeached by requiring them to disclose the reasons which impelled their
conclusions, or proving remarks made by them.

The dutiable market value of goods is to be determined by their general
market value, without regard to special advantages which the importer

may enjoy; and in ascertaining that value, it is proper in some instances

XUSER tv. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.
to consider the cost of production, including such items of expense as
designs, salary of buyer, clerk hire, rent, interest, and percentage on
aggregate cost of the business.

THIs was an action brought by Frederick W. Muser, Richard
user, and , urt Muser, composing the firm of Muser Brothers,
against the collector of the port of New York, to recover duties
alleged to have been illegally exacted of them on certain
importations of cotton embroideries, manufactured at St. Gall,
Switzerland, where they had a branch house. Their course
of business there was as follows: The cloth on which the
embroideries were stitched was purchased in the gray state by
plaintiffs at Manchester, and received in their warehouse in
St. Gall. It was then sent out to various parties at St. Gall
who had stitching machines, and stitched the goods according
to patterns or designs furnished by plaintiffs, which designs
had either been purchased by them in Paris or made in their
St. Gall establishment by designers employed by them. The
goods when stitched were returned to the warehouse, and
having been examifded by plaintiffs' employas to see if they
were properly done, were sent out again to a bleacher to, be
bleached. When bleached, they were brought back, regxamined, cut into strips of suitable size for the American market,
ticketed, boxed, and shipped. To carry on this business in
St. Gall, plaintiffs rented a building, employed a staff of assistants, paid insurance, and kept a certain amount of capital
invested.
Finished embroideries were net kept in stock for sale at
St. Gall in 1887, the date of these importations. The goods
were usually ordered from samples submitted by the manufacturers or by so-called commissionaires. The commissionaires, as a rule, submitted samples to the purchasers, bought
the cloth, and turned it over to the manufacturer to make up.
Their charge for their own services, according to plaintiffs,
was three per cent besides all expenses. According to other
testimony, the commissionaire would require an advance of
the necessary capital to do the trade with, and also all the
cash discounts, amounting to another hree per cent. If he
were asked to employ his own capital and make his own
VOL. CLV-16

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

designs, his charge would vary; it might be less than ten per
cent, or it might be more, but ten per cent would not be any
more than a fair profit. It was within the knowledge of one
of the merchant appraisers that one of the largest manufacturers in St. Gall was coming to New York to do business for
ten per cent profit.
Plaintiffs' goods were invoiced at their actual gross cost,
omitting any cash discount; any charge for designing; any
interest and risk on capital; any allowance for salaries or
other office expenses at St. Gall. They added three per cent
to the invoice price "to make market value," but they claimed
upon the trial that this addition was not voluntary, but was
made to avoid the advance of duty provided by statute in
cases where the appraised value exceeds the entered value by
ten per cent. This three per cent was not more than enough
to cover the expense of designing alone, and interest and risk
on capital was sometimes itself rated at eight per cent.
It appeared that for many years prior to 1887, St. Gall
embroideries had been appraised in the same way as in that
year, but, the question of undervaluation being raised, they
had been advanced from ten to forty per cent. In the fall of
1885, the Treasury Department appointed a commission to
investigate the matter, which met at the public stores in
New York city. Merchants interested in the cotton embroidery trade also had a meeting, arrived at certain recommendations, and appointed a committee to present them to
the commission and see them carried out. A member of
Muser Brothers was one of this committee. The conviction
was expressed in the resolutions of the meeting that the counting of the stitches was "the only proper way for arriving
at a correct valuation of cotton embroideries, Oriental and
Egyptian laces;" and "that it be recommended that the
appraiser, in appraising cotton embroideries, Oriental and
Egyptian laces, should appraise them by counting the stitches
and valuing them at the rate at which they are quoted by
the U. -S.consul on the day of shipment, adding to this the
cost of the cloth, and adding to this ten per cent, to be called
manufacturer's profit, then the cost of bleaching, finishing,

MY.USER v. VAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

and putting, up." Subsequently, and after conference with the
general appraiser and the commission, the committee agreed
that the ten per cent should "be added to the cost of the goods
in a finished condition, including the .cost of the bleaching,
finishing, and putting up." It was also recommended that
"the minimum rates for stitching adopted by the manufacturers' union at St. Gall should be the basis of the appraisement,
but if the price of the stitching should be advanced, the invoice
should be in accordance therewith." One of the plaintiffs
signed the committee's communication to the commission and
the subsequent agreement, but on the same day sent to the
commission a written protest stating that he doubted the authority for the exaction of the ten per cent on the cost of the
price for cloth and stitching, but had, no doubt at all as to
the illegality of the exaction on the charges incurred for
bleaching and finishing.
As to one of the importations in question here, an advance
of seven per cent was made by direction of the merchant appraiser, but the reason therefor did not appear, and no reappraisement was called for or had. As to the other importations,
the appraiser raised the entered value about nine per cent. The
plaintiffs demanded a reappraisement, upon which the merchant
appraiser in one case approved the entry; in the other cases
the .merchant appraisers recommended an advance of six per
cent; the general appraiser made the advance about ten per
cent; and the collector decided in favor of the general appraiser.
Plaintiffs protested "against the standard of value adopted
by the appraising officers and of their appraised value as returned by them and approved by" the collector, upon various
grounds, in substance, because the standard dutiable value of
the merchandise established by the collector included, "besides
the actual market value or wholesale price, commissions and
charges non-dutiable under section 7, act of March 3, 1883, c.
121, 22 Stat. 488, 523;" because the goods should have been
appraised at their actual market value or wholesale price in the
gray, adding to such value the cost for laundrying and finishing
them, and no more, as provided by section 2906 of the Revised
Statutes and section 7 of the act of March 3, 1883, whereas

OCTOBER TERII,

1894.

Statement of the Case.

there had been illegally included "a further amount to cover
the incidental charges incurred in the purchase and preparation
of said goods for shipment, such charges or incidental expenses
being for designs furnished the manufacturer, salary of the
buyer, and clerk hire, rent of buyer's office, and rooms for
putting up and packing for shipment, interest on money
credits for the purchase of the goods and for a profit or commission in excess of such aggregate cost, or one or more of
such charges," which charges or items of costs were nondutiable under section '7; because the goods were dutiable
"at no more than the cost or value of the materials composing
such merchandise, together with the expense of manufacturing,
preparing, and putting up such merchandise fbr shipment as
provided in section 9, act March 3, 1883;" "that the standard
marketable condition of embroideries is in the gray; that the
wholesale current market prices for regular goods bought in
the regular manner is usually quoted in the gray, according
to the number of stitches contained in a given pattern; such
price plus the market value of the muslin upon which the
stitching is done constitutes their marketable value in their
wholesale marketable condition; to this value is to be added
the expenses for laundrying and finishing, to make dutiable
value under existing laws, and no more."
By section 2902 of the Revised Statutes, it was made the
duty of the appraisers of the United States, . . . by all
reasonable ways and means,
.
to ascertain, estimate,

and appraise the true and actual market value and wholesale
price

.

.

.

of imported merchandise, at the time of ex-

portation, and in the principal markets of the country whence
the same has been imported into the United States; and, by
section 2904, the day of actual shipment is made the day as
of which the duty is to be estimated.
Section 2906 provided :
"When an ad valorem rate of duty is imposed on any imported merchandise, or when the duty imposed shall be regulated by, or directed to be estimated or based upon, the value
of the square yard, or of any specified quantity or parcel of
such merchandise, the collector . . .
shall cause the

MUSER v. MAGONE.
Statement of the Case.

actual market value, or wholesale price thereof, at the period
of the exportation to the United States, in the principal markets of the country from which the same has been imported,
to be appraised, and such appraised value shall be considered
the value upon which duty shall be assessed."
By section 2907, in determining the dutiable value, there
was to be added to the market value "the cost of transportation, shipment, and transshipment, with all the expenses included, from the place of

.

.

.

manufacture

.

.

.

to

the vessel in which shipment is made to the United States;
the value of the sack, box, or covering of any kind in which
such merchandise is contained; commission at the usual rates,
but in no case less than two and a half per centum; and
brokerage, export duty, and all other actual or usual charges
for putting up, preparing, and packing for transportation or
shipment. All charges of a general character incurred in the
purchase of a general invoice shall be distributed pro rata
among all parts of such invoice."
Section 2908 provided that all additions made to the entered
value of merchandise for charges should be regarded as part
of the actual value of such merchandise, and if such additiod.
exceeded by ten per cent the value declared, in addition to the
duties, twenty per cent duty should be collected.
Section 2930 read thus:
"If the importer, owner, agent or consignee, of any merchandise shall be dissatisfied with the appraisement, and shall
have complied with the foregoing. requisitions, he may forthw.ith give notice to the collector, in writing, of such dissatisfaction; on the receipt of which the collector shall select one
discreet and experienced merchant to be associated with one
of the general appraisers wherever practicable, or two discreet
and experienced merchants, citizens of the United States,
familiar with the character and value of the goods in question,
to examine and appraise the same, agreeably to the foregoing
provisions; and if they shall disagree, the collector shall decide between them; and the appraisement thus determined
shall be final and be deemed to be the true value, and the
duties shall be levied thereon accordingly."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Sections 2907 and 2908 were repealed by the seventh section of the act of March 3, 1883, which further declared"And hereafter none of the charges imposed by said sections or any other provisions of existing law shall be estimated
in ascertaining the value of goods to be imported, nor shall
the value of the usual and necessary sacks, crates, boxes, or
covering of any kind be estimated as part of their value in
determining the amount of duties for which they are liable."
22 Stat. 523, c. 121, ยง 7.
The ninth section of this act was as follows:
"SE. 9. If upon the appraisal of imported goods, wares,
and merchandise, it shall appear that the true and actual
market value and wholesale price thereof, as provided by law,
cannot be ascertained to the satisfaction of the appraiser,
whether because such goods, wares, and merchandise be consigned for sale by the manufacturer abroad to his agent in
the United States, or for any other reason, it shall then be
lawful to appraise the same by ascertaining the cost or value
of the materials composing such merchandise, at the time and
place of manufacture, together with the expense of manufacturing, preparing, and putting up such merchandise for shipment, and in no case shall the value of such goods, wares, and
merchandise be appraised at less than the total cost or value
thus ascertained." 22 Stat. 525.
The action was tried before Judge Lacombe and a jury,
and a verdict directed in favor of the collector. Judgment
having been entered upon the verdict given in accordance
with such direction, this writ of error was sued out. The
opinion of the Circuit Judge is reported in 41 Fed. Rep. 87'1.
ltXr. -Edwin B. Smith, (with whom was .M3. Charles Curie
on the brief,) for plaintiffs in error.
Ar. Assistah4t Attorney General Whitney for defendants- in
error.
MR. CHIEF JUSriCE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The conclusiveness of the valuation of imported merchan-

MUSER v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

dise made by the designated officials, in the absence of fraud,
is too thoroughly settled to admit of further discussion. Hilton v. .Aerritt, 110 U. S. 97; Aqfmordt v. Rledden, 137 U. S.
310; Passavantv. United States, 148 U. S. 214. In Aufmordt
v. Iledden, it was said: "The government has the right to
prescribe the conditions attending the importation. of goods,
upon which it will-permit the collector to be sued. One of
those conditions is that the appraisal shall be regarded as
final. . . . The provision as to the finality of the appraisement is virtually a rule of evidence to be observed in
the trial of the suit brought against the collector."
Yet, though the valuation is final and not subject to review
and change and reconstruction by the verdict of a jury, it is
open to attack for want of power to make it, as where the
appraisers are disqualified from acting; or have not examined
the goods; or illegal items have been added independent of
the value. The principle applied in such cases is analogous to
that by which proceedings of a judicial nature are held invalid
because of the absence of some strictly jurisdictional fact, or
facts, essential to their validity.
But, in the language of -Mr. Justice Blatchford in Auffmordt
v. fledden, p. 328: "This case does not present any question
like that of substituting a new merchant appraiser for one
already selected, as in Greely v. Thompson, 10 How. 225 ;, nor
is it a case where the appraiser did not see the original packages, as in Greely's Administrator v. Burgess,,18 How. 413 ;
nor a case wliere it was offered to show that the merchant
appraiser was not a person having the qualification prescribed
by the statute, as in Oelbermann v. .Merritt,123 U. S. 356, and
in ifustin v. Cadwalader,123 U. S. 369 ; nor a case where it
was contended that the appraisers did not open, examine, and
appraise the packages designated by the collector, as in Oelbermann -. Xrerritt; nor a case where to the admitted market
value of an importation there was added such additional value
as was equal to a reduction made in the valuation of the cases
containing the goods, as in Badger v. Cusimano, 130 U. S. 39.
Those were instances of errors outside of the valuation itself
and outside of the appraisement prescribed by the statute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The protest in this case had no relation to want of qualification or to insufficiency of examination, but was directed to
the hlleged illegality of the valuation, whether the method
pursued was to ascertain "the true and actual market value
and wholesale price," under section 2902 of the Revised Statutes, or the value on the basis of cost of production under section 9 of the act of March 3, 1883, because, as alleged, one of
the constituent elements of the value as. found was illegally
included.
The Circuit Court held that the action of the appraisers.was
a finding of market value, and that conclusion was clearly
right. The certificates of the appraisers were in the usual
form, that "the actual market value or wholesale price of the
said goods at the period of the exportation thereof to the
United States, in the principal markets of the country from
which the same were imported into the United States," was
as stated; and it appeared in terms therefrom that the advances .by the original appraiser, and by the importers, were
"to make market value," though the importers contend their
advance was made to avoid the imposition of additional duties.
We must assume that the conclusion of the appraisers was
that the market value could be ascertained to their satisfaction, and such determination is binding. Stairs v. Peaslee, 18
H-ow. 521.
The Circuit Judge was of opinion that section 9 of the act
of March 3, 1883, applied to cases where goods are made
abroad but are sold only in this country, and that the section
did not apply to these goods, which were in effect purchased
at St. Gall at an ascertainable expenditure. He said: "So
far as the evidence shows, any one can go to St. Gall, and can
there buy these very cotton embroideries, not precisely of the
same pattern as Mr. Muser's, but he can get a selection from a
large variety of assorted patterns, and upon paying the cost
of the cloth, stitching, bleaching, cutting up, and boxing, and
the additional charge, he can obtain these goods in St. Gall.
He may have to wait for a week, or three weeks, or five
or six weeks; but the title to the goods changes hands in
St. Gall, and the purchaser may have them delivered to him
there, if lie chooses to vait and take them."

MUSER v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court.

We concur in this view and in the argument that the appraisers in treating the goods as having 'a true market value,
evidently considered that while such value might vary as the
quality of the materials and size or intricacy of the patterns
varied, it could be satisfactorily ascertained by a general computation of- all charges incurred 'by the commissionaire, who
occupied the position of a wholesale dealer, including that for
his own service, and that the elements entering into the true
valuation of the commodity would embrace such items as office
rent, wages of employ6s, superintendence, interest on capital,
risk, etc.; so that what was called manufacturers' profit was
merely a percentage to cover the miscellaneous expenses and
allowance's necessary to be taken into account in reaching the
true valuation of the goods.
In the matter of Cli/uot's Champagne, Sudge Hoffman
defined the market value of 'goods to b'e " the price at which
the owner of the goods, or the producer, holds them for sale;,
the price at which they are freely offered in the market to
all the world; such prices as dealers in the goods are willing
to receive, and purchasers are made to pay, when the goods
are bought and sold in the ordinary course of trade;" and the
definition was approved by this court.'Cliquot's CMa?npagne,
3 Wall. 114, 125, 142.
We regard it as quite sufficient for the inquiry here, and
cannot discover any legal ground which Would have justified
the Circuit Court in overhauling the judgment of the revenue
officials that the mode of doing business in respect of these
embroideries at St. Gall afforded the data for a "true and
actual market value and Wholesale price," within the intent
and meaning of the act, for the commissionaires stood in the
place of Wholesale dealers, and the items mnde up the price
they were willing to receive and purchasers were made to pay
in the ordinary course of tlme trade.
It is argued for the collector that 'much of the evidence
which was admitted was incompetent, but, waiving that question, we are of opinion that the Circuit Court did not' err in
directing a verdict for the defendant.
We do not consider it necessary to specifically review the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

fifty-one errors assigned in the brief of plaintiffs in error.
What we have said disposes of those relating to the direction
to the jury, and the others, which present exceptions to the
rulings of the Circuit Court in the admission or exclusion of
evidence, require but few observations. Some of the questions
to which objections were sustained were propounded as to
matters which were fully brought out elsewhere in the evidence, and the exclusion of merely cumulative testimony cannot be said to have injured the plaintiffs, since that which was
admitted was sufficient to test the correctness of the direction
of tie verdict. Some of them were aimed at eliciting the
expenses of Mvuser Brothers' establishment at St. Gall; the
total expenditures there; what they paid their designer;
the amount of embroideries obtained; and so on, in 1887,
but all this was immaterial. The question was not whether
through the special advantages which Muser Brothers enjoyed
the actual cost to them may have been less than what was
decided to be the actual dutiable value of their goods, for the
latter w;vs determined by the general market value and wholesale price of all goods of the same description.
Other questions went to the grounds of the decision of the
revenue officers, and involved the extent, if at all, to which they
might be examined in relation thereto. For instance, the general appraiser was called as a witness, and asked the following
questions: " Q. In making your report upon these several
invoices, and in adding ten per cent to the invoice value, did
you or not take into consideration as a part of that ten per cent
"Q. Did you in making that
any manufacturer's profit?"
addition ascertain the cost of the cloth, of the stitching, the
bleaching, and finishing, and then add to that sum as a part
of the ten per cent, anything for charges incurred in the purchase .nd preparation of said goods foi shipment?" "Q. Upon
what ground and to cover whkt did you add the ten per cent
or the sm that you did add to the invoice?" Objections to
these questions were severally sustained and exceptions taken.
Upon the case made these inquiries were either immaterial or
incompetent.
it is not pretended that the action of the appraisers was in

MUSER v. MAGONE.
Opinion of the Court. -

bad faith or in any respect fraudulent. The issue made by the
protest was that the valuation was illegal because including
certain specified incidental expenses, (one or more of them,) as
for designs, salary of buyer, clerk hire, rent, interest, and
percentage on aggregate cost. Upon the theory of an ascertainable market value at St. Gall, these were matters to be
considered and in a sense included, but not in the sense of substantive items independent of market value added thereto to
make dutiable value.
Plaintiff contended that the dutiable value consisted in the
market price of the embroideries in the gray, according to the
number of stitches in a given.pattern, plus the market value
of the muslin and the expenses for laundrying and finishing
and no more, but, as we have indicated, the Circuit Court
rightly declined to sustain that contention.
The law imposed the duty upon the general appraiser and
the merchant appraiser to ascertain and determine the value,
and it was provided that in case of disagreement the collector
should decide between them. The collector affirmed the decision of the general appraiser, and the valuation became fixed
accordingly.
These officers were appointed and required to pronounce a
judgment in each case, and the proper operation of the revenue
system necessitated, in the opinion of Congress, that their
decisions should be final and conclusive. The presumption is
that a sworn officer, acting in the discharge of. his duty, upon
a, subject over which jurisdiction is given him, has acted
rightly, and there is nothing in this record which, in the
slightest degree, tends to indicate that the general appraiser
did not endeavor by all reasonable ways and means to arrive
at the true and actual market value. Among such ways and
means are market price or the quotations for a given day;
amounts realized on sales, public and private; and in some
instances the cost of production. The course of business at
St. Gall in respect of these embroideries was peculiar, and to
reach a result, in estimating the value,.required the consideration of many elements making up the amount which actually
represented the pecuniary basis of transactions. How these

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

various elements impressed the general appraiser, and what
grounds influenced or controlled his mental processes, were
matters in respect of which he could not be interrogated,
since his decision, when approved by the collector, was final,
-and could not be reviewed and the verdict of a jury substituted. The proper evidence of the decision of the appraisers
and of the collector was to be found in their official returns,
and if they acted without fraud and within the powers conferred on them by statute, their decision could not be impeached by requiring them to disclose the reasons which
impelled their conclusions or by proving remarks they may
have made in the premises.
The adjudication was of true market value, and did not
consist in taking market value and adding the cost and
charges specified in section 2907 in order to get at dutiable
value. The percentage of the commissionaires was not the
"commission" named in that section, which plainly refers to
other agents than these St. Gall dealers, and, moreover, all
these ingredients must be regarded as simply taken into consideration in making up an opinion, and the valuation could
not be picked to pieces by an investigation into the sources of
information which may have influenced the officers in the
judgment they pronounced. The"seventh section of the act
of March 3, 1883, had no application.
We think that the cause was properly tried, and that the
record exhibits no material error, if any.
Judgment ajfrmed.

THE BREAKWATER.
APPEAI FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN
No. 61.

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued November 9, 1894. -Decided

December 3, 1894.

In view of the large number of ferry-boats plying between NewjYork and
the opposite shores, steamers running up and down the river should keep

a sufficient distance from the docks, and hold themselves under such

