OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in the suit here provided for, shall be as provided for in sections
one, two, and three of this act." It was evidently intended
by this provision that section 3 should be read into and made
a part of section 4, so far as the same could be made applicable. There was no error in authorizing a compensation to
counsel of ten per centum on the amount recovered, and the
action of the court in that particular was correct.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to recompute
the amount due to the Indians and their counsel 'in conformity with this opinion, and enter a decree accordingly.

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 619. Argued and submitted October 1$, 1894.-Decided November 19, 1894.

The Cherokees and the Delawdares having, on the 8th day of April, 1867, in
pursuance of the provisions of the treaty of July 19, 1866, 14 Stat. 799,
between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, entered into a contract, whereby it was agreed that, on the fulfilment by the Delawares of
the stipulations on their part contained in said contract, all the members
of that tribe, registered as provided in said contract, should become
members of the Cherokee Nation, with the same rights and immunities
and 'the same participation (and no other) in the national funds as
native Cherokees, except as otherwise provided in the contra~t, the so
registered Delawares were on such fulfilment of their stipulations,
thereby incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, and, as members and
citizens thereof, were entitled to equal rights in the lands of that Nation
and their proceeds.

'OiN July49, 1866, the United States and the Cherokee Nation entered into a treaty, 14 Stat. 799, 803, the fifteenth article
of which is as follows:
"The United States may settle any civilized Indians, friendly
with the Cherokees and adjacent tribes, within the Cherokee
country, on unoccupied lands east of 96', on such terms as may

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Statement of the Case.

be agreed upon by any such tribe and the Cherokees, subject
to the approval of the President of the United States, which
shall be consistent with the following provisions, viz.: Should
any such tribe or band of Indians settling in said country
abandon their tribal organization, there being first paid into
the Cherokee national fund a sum of money which shall sustain
the same proportion to the then existing national fund that the
number of Indians sustain to the whole number of Cherokees then residing in the Cherokee country, they shall be
incorporated into and ever after remain a part of the Cherokee
nation, on equal terms in every respect with native citizens.
And should any such tribe, thus settling in said country, decide
to preserve their tribal organizations, and to maintain their
tribal laws, customs, and usages, not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the Cherokee Nation, they shall have a
district of country set off for their use by metes and bounds
equal to one hundred and sixty acres, if they should so decide,
for each man, woman, and child of said tribe, and shall pay
for the same into the national fund such price as may be
agreed on by them and the Cherokee Nation, subject to the
approval of the President of the United States, and in cases of
disagreement the price to be fixed by the President.
"And the said tribe thus settled shall also pay into the
national fund.a sum of money, to be agreed on by the respective parties, not greater in proportion to the whole existing
national fund and the probable proceeds of the lands herein
ceded or authorized to be ceded o'r sold than their numbers
bear to the whole number of Cherokees then residing in said
country, and thence afterwards -they shall enjoy all the rights
of native Cherokees. But no Indians who have no tribal
organizations, or who shall determine to abandon their tribal
organizations, shall be permitted to settle east of the 96'
of longitude without the consent of the Cherokee National
Council, or of a delegation duly appointed by it, being first
obtained. And no Indians who have and determine to preserve their tribal organizations shall be permitted to settle, as
herein provided, east of the 960 of longitude without such consent being first obtained, unless the President of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

States, after a full hearing of the objections offered by said
council or delegation to such settlement, shall determine that
the objections are insufficient, in which case he may authorize
the settlement of such tribe east of the 96 ° of longitude."
Prior to that time, and in 1839, the Cherokee Nation had
adopted a constitution, section 2 of article I and section 5 of
article III being in these words:
"SEc. 2: The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain
common property; but the improvements made thereon, and
in the possession of the citizens of the Nation, are the exclusive and indefeasible property of the citizens respectively who
made or may rightfully be in possession of them: Ppovided,
That the citizens of the Nation possessing exclusive and indefeasible right to their improvements, as expressed in this
article, shall possess no right or power to dispose of their
improvements, in any manner whatever, to the United States,
individual States, or to individual citizens thereof; and that,
whenever any citizen shall remove with his effects out of the
limits of this Nation, and become a citizen of any other government, all his rights and privileges as a citizen of this Nation
shall cease : P'ovided, -nevertheless,That the National Council
shall have power to readmit, by law, to all the rights of citizenship, any such person or persons who may, at any time, desire
to return to the Nation, on memorializing the National Council
for such readmission."
"Sxc. 5. No person shall be eligible to a seat in the National Council but a free Cherokee male citizen, who shall
have attained to the age of twenty-five years.
"The descendants of Cherokee men by all free women, excdpt the African race, 'whose parents may have been living
together as man and wife, according to the customs and laws
of this Nation, shall be entitled to all the rights and privileges
of this Nation as well as the posterity of Cherokee women by
all free men. No person who is of negro or mulatto parentage, either by the father's or the mother's side, shall be eligible to hold any office of profit, honor, or trust, under this
government."
(Const. and Laws, Cherokee Nation, ed. of
1892, pp. 11, 12, and 14.)

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Statement of the Case.

Immediately following the treaty the Cherokee Nation
amended these sections, first adopting the following preamble:
"Whereas, by the treaty executed at Washington, on the
19th day of July, A.D. 1866, between the United States and
the Cherokee Nation, through its delegation, ratified by the
Senate and officially promulgated by the President of the
United States, August 11, 1866, certain things were agreed
to between the parties to said treaty, involving changes in
the constitution of the Cherokee Nation, which changes cannot be accomplished by the usual mode; and,
"Whereas, it is the desire of the people and government of
the Cherokee Nation, to carry out in good faith all of its obligations, to the end that law and order be preserved, and the
institutions of their government maintained."
The sections, as amended, read as follows:
"'SEo. 2. The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain
common property until the National Council shall request the
survey and allotment of the same, in accordance with the
provisions of article 20th of the treaty of 19th July, 1866,
between the United States and the Cherokee Nation."
"SEc. 5. No person shall be eligible to a seat in the Na-

tional Council but a male citizen of the Cherokee Nation, who
shall have attained to the age of twenty-five years, and who
shall have been a bona fide resident of the district in which
he may be elected, at least six months immediately preceding
such election. All native-born Cherokees, all Indians, and
whites legally members of the Nation by adoption, and all
freedmen who have been liberated by voluntary act of their
former owners or by law, as well as free colored persons who
were in the country at the commencement of the rebellion,
and are now residents therein, or who may return within six
months from the 19th day of July, 1866, and their descendants, who reside within the limits of the Cherokee Nation,
shall be taken and deemed to be citizens of the Cherokee
Nation." (Constitution and Laws, Cherokee Nation, ed. 1892,
pp. 31, 32, and 33.)
In pursuance of this treaty, and under this amended constitution, the Cherokees and Delawares came together and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

entered into an agreement of date April 8, 1867, which, after
referring to certain treaties, among them this of July 19, 1866,
and reciting that a "full -and free conference 'has been had
between the representatives of the Cherokees and the Delawares, in view of the treaties herein referred to, looking to a
location of the Delawares upon the Cherokee lands, and their
consolidation with said Cherokee Nation," stipulates a$ follows:
":Now, therefore, it is agreed between the parties hereto,
subject to the approval of the President of the United States,
as follows:
"The Cherokees, parties of the first part, for and in consideration of certain payments, and the fulfilment of certain conditions hereinafter mentioned, agree to sell to the Delawares,
for their occupancy, a quantity of land east of the line of the
960 west longitude, in the aggregate equal to one hundred and
sixty acres for .each individual of the Delaware tribe, who has
been enrolled upon a certain register made February 18, 1867,
by the Delaware agent, and on file in the Office of Indian
Affairs, being the list of Delawares who elect to remove to
the ' Indian country,' to- which list may be added, only with
the consent of the Delaware council, the names of such other
Delawares as may, within one month after the signing of this
agreement, desire to be added thereto, and the selections of
the lands to be purchased by the Delawares may be made by
said Delawares in any part of the Cherokee Reservation east
of said line of 960, not already selected and in possession of
other parties, and in case the Cherokee lands shall h6reafter
be allotted among the members of said Nation, it is agreed
that the aggregate amount of land herein provided for the
Delawares, to include their improvements according to the
legal subdivisions when surveys are made, (that is to say, one
hundred and sixty acres for each individual,) shall be guaranteed to each Delaware incorporated by these articles into the
Cherokee Nation, nor shall the continued ownership and occupancy of said land by any Delaware 'so registered be interfered with in any manner whatever without his consent, but
shall be subject to the same conditions and restrictions as are

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Statement of the Case.

by the laws of the Cherokee Nation imposed upon native citizens thereof.
"Provided that nothing herein shall confer the right to
alienate, convey, or dispose of any such lands, except in accordance with the constitution and laws of said Cherokee
Nation.
"And the said Delawares, parties of the second part, agree
that there shall be paid to the said Cherokees from the
Delaware funds now held or hereafter received by the United
States, a sum of money equal to one dollar per acre for the
whole amount of one hundred and sixty acres of land for every
individual Delaware who has already been registered upon
the aforesaid list, made February 18, 1867, with the additions
theretofore provided for.
"And the Secretary of the Interior is authorized and requested to sell any United States stocks belonging to the
Delawares to procure funds necessary to pay for said lands;
but in case he shall not feel authorized, under existing treaties,
to sell such bonds belonging to the Delawares, itis agreed
that he .may transfer such United States bonds to the Cherokee
Nation, at their market value, at the date of such transfer.
"And the said Delawares further agree, that there shall be
paid from their funds, now or hereafter to come into possession
of the United States, . sum of money which shall sustain the
same proportion to the existing Cherokee national fund that
the number of Delawares registered as above mentioned and
removing to the Indian country sustains to he whole number
of Cherokees residing in the Cherokee Nation. And for the
purpose of ascertaining such reIative numbers, the registers of
the Delawares herein referred to, with such additions as may
be made withiin one m6nth from the signing of this'agreement,
shall be the basis of calculation as to the Delawares, and an
accurate census of the Cherokees residing in the Cherokee
Nation shall be taken under the laws of that Nation within
four months, and properly certified copies thereof filed in the,
Office of Indian Affairs, which shall be the basis of calculation as to the Cherokees.
"And that there may be no doubt hereafter as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

amount to be contributed to the Cherokee national fund by
the Delawares, it is hereby agreed by the parties hereto that
the whole amount of the invested funds of the Cherokees,
after deducting all just claims thereon, is $678,000.
"And the Delawares further agree, that in calculating the
total amount of said national fund there shall be added to the
said sum of $678,000 the sum of $1,000,000, being the estimated
value of the Cherokee neutral lands in Kansas, thus making
the whole Cherokee national fund $1,678,000; and this lastmentioned sum shall be taken as the basis for calculating the
imount which the Delawares are to pay into the common fund.
"Provided, that as the $678,000 of fMnds now on hand belonging to the Cherokees is chiefly composed of stocks of
different values, the Secretary of the Interior may transfer
from the Delawares to the Cherokees a proper proportion of
the stQcks now owned by the Delawares of like grade and
value, which transfer shall be in part of the/pro rata contribution herein provided for by the Delawares to the funds of the
Cherokee Nation; but the balance of the _pro 'rata contribution by the Delawares to said fund shall be in cash or United
States bonds, at their market value.
"All cash, and all proceeds of stocks, whenever the same
may fall due or be sold, received by the Cherokees from the
Delawares under the agreement, shall be invested and applied
in accordance with the 23d article of the treaty with the
Cherokees of August 11, 1866.
"On the fulfilment by the Delawares of the foregoing stipulations, all the members of the tribe registered as above provided, shall become members of the Cherokee Nation, with
the same rights and immunities, and the same participation
(and no other) in the national funds as native Cherokees, save
as hereinbefore provided.
"And the children hereafter born of such Delawares so
incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, shall in all respects be
regarded as native Cherokees."
In pursuance of this agreement, which was approved by the
President of the United States as stipulated in article XV of
the treaty, 985 Delawares removed to the territory of the

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Statement of the Case.

Cherokees, paid $157,600 for -the lands set apart for them,
contributed $121,824.28, their share of the national fund as
provided, and becameincorporated into the Cherokee Nation.
At the time of this treaty the Cherokee Nation was possessed of the following tracts or bodies of lands:
ACRES.

"Strip" lands in Kansas (about) .................. 400,000
"Neutral" lands in Kansas (about) ............... 1,000,000
Lands west of 96, Indian Territory (about) ....... 8,000,000
Lands east of 960, Indian Territory, Home IReserva........................ 5,000,000
tion (about).
By article XVII of the treaty the strip lands and the neutral
lands were ceded to the United States, to be sold for the benefit of the Cherokee Nation. The sum expected to be realized
from the sale of the neutral lands was, by the agreement
between the Cherokees and the Delawares, considered as
already received and a part of the Cherokee national fund.
The proceeds of the sale of the strip lands were subsequently
appropriated to the uses of the Cherokee Nation as a Nation,
and not for the benefit of the native Cherokees alone, leaving
as still the property of the Cherokee Nation the two bodies of
land in the Indian Territory (sometimes known as the "Home
Reservation" and the "Cherokee Outlet"). Certain sums of
money were received by the Cherokee Nation for the rental of
the Cherokee outlet. These sums the Cherokee Council determined belonged wholly to the native Cherokees, to the exclusion of the Delawares. This brought about a controversy
between the native Cherokees and the Delawares, involving
not merely the right to share in these proceeds, but also the
interest of the Delawares in the reservation and the outlet.
On October 1, 1890, 26 Stat. 636, c. 1249, an act of Congress
was passed providing for a reference to the Court of Claims of
that controversy. Thereupon, on October 29, 1890, this suit
.was bkought, the United States being made a party defendant,
not as having any adverse interest, but as trustee, holding the
funds of the Indians. The opinion of that court was filed
April 24, 1893, 28 C. C1. 281, the conclusion being that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Delawares were incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, and,
as members and citizens thereof, were entitled to equal rights
in these lands and their proceeds. On May 22, 1893, a decree
was entered in accordance with these views, from which decree
the Cherokee Nation and the United States appealed to the
court.
.M. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for the United
States, appellants, submitted on his brief.
Xir. Charles A. -Maxwell and .Xr. George S. Chase for the
Cherokee Nation, appellants, submitted on their brief.
.Mr. J. H. McGowan, (with whom was .. r. Thomas C.
Fletcher on the brief,) for appellee.
M
M. TUSTo BREWEn, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case hinges on the status of the individual Delawares
as members and citizens of the Cherokee Nation, and the rights
secured to them by the agreement of April 8, 1867. In order
to a correct understanding of this agreement it is necessary
to refer to the provisions of article XV of the treaty of 1866.
That article contemplated the settlement of other Indians
within the limits of the Cherokee country east of the ninetysixth degree of longitude, and provided for such settlement in
two ways: one, in which the Indians settled should abandon
their tribal organization, in which case, as expressed, they
were to "be incorporated into and ever after remain a part of
the Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every respect with
The other was where the removal of the
native citizens."
tribe to the Cherokee country should involve no abandonment of the tribal organization, in which case a distinct
territory was to be set off, by metes and bounds, to the
tribe removed. The one contemplated an absorption of individual Indians into the Cherokee Nation ; the other a mere
location of a tribe within the limits of the Cherokee reservation. If the removed Indians were to be absorbed into the

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

Cherokee Nation, they were to be absorbed on equal terms in
every respect with native citizens.

In this connection reference may be had to article XVI of
the treaty, which authorized the government to settle friendly
Indians in any part of the Cherokee country west of the
ninety-sixth degree of longitude. This article differs from
article XV in that it contemplated a location of any friendly
tribe as a tribe, authorized the government to place it anywhere within the reservation west of the ninety-sixth degree
of longitude, on a tract in compact form, and provided for a
conveyance of such tract in fee simple to the located tribe. It
thus provided for taking.a body of land out of this part of the
Cherokee reservation and removing it wholly from the jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation, making a new reservation for
the occupancy of the tribe to whom it was conveyed; while
in the case of Indians removed under the provisions of article
XV, even though the tribal organization was preserved, the
general jurisdiction of the Cherokee Nation over the territory
occupied by the removed tribe was not disturbed.
Turning now to the agreement itself, its purpose, as expressed in its preliminary language, was "a location of the
Delawares upon the Cherokee lands and their consolidation
with the said Cherokee Nation." There is no provision for
the setting apart of a distinct body of land in any portion of
the reservation for the Delaware tribe, but the agreement is
to sell to them for their occupancy a quantity of land equal in
the aggregate to 160 acres for each individual Delaware. who
may "elect to remove to theIndian country," and "the selection of the amounts to be purchased by the Delawares may
be made by said Delawares in any part of the said Cherokee
Nation east of said line of 96 degrees, not already selected and
in possession of other parties." This contemplates personal
selection of separate tracts by individual Delawares. Further,
there is a guarantee "to each Delaware incorporated by these
articles into the Cherokee Nation" of the lands thus by him
purchased, and that his ownership and occupancy shall not be
interfered with in any manner without his consent-not the
consent of the Delaware tribe -and also thfat it shall be sub-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ject to the "same conditions and restrictions as are by the
laws of the Cherokee Nation imposed upon native citizens
thereof." But we are not limited to the plain inferences to
be drawn from these expressions. The positive provision at
the close of the agreement is as follows:
"On the fulfilment by the Delawares of the foregoing stipulations, all the members of the tribe, registered as above provided, shall become members of the Cherokee Nation, with the
same rights and immunities, and the same participations (and
no other) in the national funds as native Cherokees, save as
hereinbefore provided.
"And the children hereafter born of such Delawares so incorporated int6 the Cherokee Nation, shall in all respects be
regarded as native Cherokees."
If nothing were presented other than the language of the
agreement, the conclusion would seem irresistible that the registered Delawares, that is, those of the tribe who chose to remove from Kansas to the Indian Territory, were not only to
become members of the Cherokee Nation, but also to stand
equal with the native Cherokees in all the rights springing out
of citizenship in the Cherokee Nation. Whatever rights the
Cherokees had, the registered Delawares were to have, and it
was an equality not limited to the living Delawares; but to
guard against any misconception there was the express declaration that the children of the registered Delawares should in
all respects be regarded as native-born Cherokees. This last
clause was not inserted with the view of giving additional
rights to such children, but to prevent any question as to their
inheritance of all the rights which their fathers received under
the agreement.
That the thirteen millions of acres, whether appropriately
styled its "common property" or its "public domain," belonged to the Cherokee Nation as a nation, is beyond dispute.
By the treaty of May 6, 1828, 7 Stat. 311, it was provided in
article 2 that "the United States agree to possess the Cherokees, and to guarantee it to them forever, and that guarantee
is hereby solemnly pledged, of seven millions of acres of land,
tG' be bounded as follows: . . . In addition to the seven

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

million of acres thus provided for, and bounded, the United
States further guarantee to the Cherokee Nation a perpetual
outlet, West, and a free and unmolested use of all the country
lying West of the Western boundary of the above described
limits, and as far West as the sovereignty of the United States,
and their right of soil extend."
By subsequent treaties, of February 14, 1833, 7 Stat. 414,
and December 29, 1835, 7 Stat. 4 78, certain changes were
made in the boundaries of the reservation and the outlet, and
by article 3 of the latter treaty it was provided that "the
United States also agree that the lands above ceded by the
treaty of February 14, 1833, including the outlet, and those
ceded by this treaty shall all be included in one patent executed to the Cherokee Nation of Indians by the President of
the United States according to the provisions of the act of
May 28, 1830."
Under these treaties, and in December, 1838, a patent was
issued to the Cherokees for these lands. By that patent, whatever of title was conveyed was conveyed to the Cherokees as a
nation, and no title was vested in severalty in the Cherokees, or
any of them. The constitution of the Cherokee Nation, both
-as originally adopted in 1839 and as amended in 1866, declares
in article 1, section 2, that "the lands of the Cherokee Nation
shall remain common property," and while the amendment
contemplates a time at which these lands shall cease to be
common property, it is only when, by article 20 of the treaty
of 1866, the National Council shall request that they be surveyed and allotted in severalty to the Cherokees. Not only
does the Cherokee constitution thus provide that the lands
shall be common property, but also the legislation of the
Cherokee Nation from 1839 on to the present time abounds
with acts speaking of these lands as "public domain" or
"common property" of the Cherokee Nation. Quite a number of these acts are collected in the opinion of the Court of
Claims in this case.'
I Extractfrom the opinion of the Court of Claims.

"The constitution and laws of the Cherokees, since that people came
within the confines of civilization, have followed, in a limited extent, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Now, if these lands be the public domain, the common
property of the "Cherokee Nation, all who are recognized as
traditions and usages of the race, and have embodied in them in varying degrees the fundamental principle and characteristics of communal property.
" The preamble of their constitution, September 6, 1839, like that of the
Constitution of the United States, sets forth the general purpose of the
instrument:
"'We, the people of the Cherokee Nation, in national convention
assembled, in order to establish justice, insure tranquillity, promote the
common welfare, and to secure to ourselves and our posterity the blessings
with humility and gratitude, the goodness
of freedom -acknowledging
of the Sovereign Ruler of the Universe, in permitting us so to do, and imploring His aid and guidance in its accomplishment-do ordain and establish this constitution for the government of the Cherokee Nation.'
"The constitution then takes up (and it is most significant that it does
so by its first article) the subject of paramount importance in the Indian
mind -of more importance than the form of government, than the right
of representation, than the right of trial by jury, or of habeas corpus, or of
any of those principles of civil liberty, which, in the Anglo-Saxon mind
are held supreme, the subject of their lands:
"' SEc. 2. The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain common property ; but the improvements made thereon, and in the possession of the
citizens of the nation, are the exclusive and indefeasible property of the
citizens respectively who made, or may rightfully be in possession of them:
Provided, that the citizens of the nation possessing exclusive and indefeasible right to their improvements, as expressed in this article, shall possess
no right or power to dispose of their improvements in any manner whatever, to the United States, individual States, or to individual citizens
thereof- and that, whenever any citizen shall remove with his effects out
of the limits of this nation, and become a citizen of any other government,
all his rights and privileges as a citizen of this nation shall cease: Provided,
nevertheless, that the national council shall have power to readmit, by law,
to all the rights of citizenship, any such person or persons who may, at any
time, desire to return to the nation, on memorializing the national council
for such readmission.
"' Moreover, the national council shall have power to adopt such laws
and regulations, as its wisdom may deem expedient and proper, to prevent
citizens from monopolizing improvements with the view of speculation.'
"The amendment of 1866 modified the foregoing as follows:
"'SEc. 2. The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain common property until the national council shall request the §urvey and allotment of the
same, in accordance with the provisions of article 20th of the treaty of 19th
of July, 1866, between the United States and the Cherokee Nation.'
" With these restrictive provisions should be considered the brief grant
which the constitution contains of legislative power:

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

members and citizens of that Nation are alike interested and
alike entitled to share in the profits and proceeds thereof.
" 'SEC. 14. The national council shall have power to make all laws and
regulations which they shall deem necessary and proper for the good of the
nation, which shall not be contrary to this constitution.'
"The legislation of the Cherokees recognizes again and again the communal character of the seizin or occupancy of the -land. It is not ' lawful
for any citizen of the Cherokee Nation to sell any farm or other improvement in said nation to any person other than a "1bona fide" citizen thereof;'
nor ' to rent any farm or other Improvement to any other person than a
citizen of the Indian Territory.' Revised Code, 1874, Art. xxi, sec. 112,
p. 234. 'No person shall be permitted to settle or erect any improvement
within one-fourth of a mile of the house, field, or other improvement of
another citizen withouf his, her, or their consent, under the penalty of forfeiting such improvement and labor for the benefit of the original settler;
provided, it may be lawful, however, where a settler has a field one-half
.mile or more from his residence, and where there may be a spring or running water and timber, for another citizen to improve and settle one hundred yards from such field so situated.' Act 24th September, 1839; id.,
p. 249.
"The law regvlating intermarriage with white men or foreigners provides
that should a citizen of the United States or any foreign courltry ' become
a citizen of the Cherokee Nation by intermarriage' and be left a widower,
lie shall continue to enjoy the rights of citizenship unless he shall marry a
person 'having no rights of Cherokee citizenship by blood; in that case,
all of his rights acquired under the provisions of this act shall cease.'
Revised Code, 1874, Art. xv, see. 74, p. 223. If he abandons his wife,.
he ' shall thereby forfeit every right and privilege of citizenship,' and shall
' be removed from the nation.' Sec. 75. There is also a significant provision attached to the law allowing citizenship by intermarriage which
shows how clearly the communal character of the property of the nation is
recognized, that is to say, property of which all the citizens of the nation
are joint owners and in which each has a direct personal interest:
"'P1rovided, also, That the rights and privileges herein conferred shall not
extend to right of soil or interest in the vested funds of this nation, unless
such adopted citizen shall pay into the general fund of the national treasury
a sum ok money to be ascertained and fixed by the national council equal to
the "pro rata" share of each native Cherokee, in the lands and vested wealth
of the nation, estimated at five hundred dollars,' (id., p. 224).
"Herbert Spencer has said, Did primitive communal ownership survive, there would survive the primitive control of the uses to be made of
land.' The Man 'versusThe State, p. 386, ed. 1892. In the Cherokee county
the converse of this is the condition of affairs. ' The primitive control of
the uses to be made of land' has passed from the communal owners and
VOL. CLV-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Given, therefore, the two propositions that the lands are the
common property of the Cherokee Nation, and that the regbecome lodged in the State - that is to say, in the government of the nation
-and the communal owners as such exercise no more control over the
national territory than the citizens of the United States exercise over the
public lands of the United States. Of this the statutes of the Cherokees
afford overwhelming exidence.
" The constitution, as before quoted, recognizes a right of occupancy
under the name of ' improvements' as ' an exclusive and indefeasible property' in citizens rightfully in possession, but at the same time expressly
vests in the National Council ' power to adopt such laws and regulations
as its wisdom may deem expedient and proper to prevent citizens from
monopolizing improvements [i.e. occupancy] with the view of speculation.'
A statute contemporaneous with the constitution is entitled ' An act regulating settlements on thepublic domain.' Act September 24, 1839, Laws of
the Cherokee Nation, ed. 1875, p. 249. A statute for the preservation of
trees refers to trees ' standing and growing upon the public domain' (id.,
p. 143, § 67). The act 14th December, 1870 (id., p. 252), declares the conditions upon which railroad ties and other material shall ' be furnished from
the public domain.' The Act 17th December, 1869 (id., p. 255), is entitled
' An act for the protection of the public domain,' and the act 14th December, 1870 (id., p. 257), ' An act in relation to the Public Domain.'
"All of these statutes and many others justify by their provisions the
use of the term 'Public Domain.' A statute relating to minerals declares
that 'Alt gold, silver, lead, copper, iron, stone, coal, petroleum, salt, or
medicinal water' which has been or may be discovered within the limits of
the country ' is the property of the Cherokee Nation,' and provides for the
leasing of mines, petroleum beds, salt-works, and of mineral springs (id.,
p. 226). The act regulating settlements on the public domain declares that
if they be left unoccupied they shall ' revert to the nation as common property' (id., p. 249). The statute for the preservation of trees makes it a
misdemeanor to cut down, kill, or destroy any fruit or nut-bearing tree
'standing and growing upon the public domain of the Cherokee Nation.'
(id., p. 143). The act relating to railroad ties imposes a royalty to be paid
for taking timber from the public domain or stone from the quarries of the
nation (id., p. 252). The act for the protection of the public domain requires a citizen to take out a license before he can dispose of sawed lumber,
and to pay into the treasury fifteen per cent of the money he receives for it
(id., p. 255). The act in relation to the public domain provides that at each
and every station along the line of any railroad passing through ' the lands
of the Cherokee Nation there shall be reserved to the Cherokee Nation one
mile square,' and that these tracts so reserved ' shall be laid off into town
lots and sold at public sale to the highest bidder,' who shall acquire thereby
no other rights 'than those of use and occupancy,' ' provided that this act
shall not be so construed as to interfere with any of the mineral resources

CHEROKEE. NATION v. JOURNEYCAK.

211

Opinion of the Court.

istered Delawares have become incorporated into the Cherokee Nation and are members and citizens thereof, it follows
necessarily that they are equally with the native Cherokees
the owners of and entitled to share in the profits and proceeds
of these lands.
As against this conclusion the argument of the counsel for
the Cherokees runs along these lines: First, that the terms
''rights and immunities" refer only to political rights and
immunities, and do not include property rights; second, that
as it is specifically provided that the registered Delawares
shall have equal participation in the national funds, while no
of the public domain' (id., p. 257). The act for the support and education
of orphan children empowers the trustees ' to occupy and hold as much
land, not exceeding two miles square, as they may deem necessary for farming and mechanical purposes' (id., p. 258). The act authorizing the transfer
or sale of Cherokee lands west of the Arkansas authorizes the sale of ' all
the Cherokee lands,' 'commonly known as the Cherokee Outlet.' The act
19th May, 1883, recognizes ' the unoccupied lands belonging to the Cherokee
Nation' as having been set apart by a previous statute 'to produce revenue
from grazing,' and authorizes and directs the principal chief ' to execute a
lease for all the unoccupied lands- of the Cherokee Nation' west of the
Arkansas. And other statutes and treaties have recognized and exercised
the power of absolute sale and alienation without authority from or ratification by communal owners.
" With this power of regulation and control of the public domain and
the jus disponendi lodged in the government of the Nation, it is plain that
the communal element has been reduced to a minimum and exists only
in the occupied lands. And it is manifest that with the growth of civilization, with all of its intricacies, and manifold requirements, the communal
management of the public domain would have been utterly insufficient, and
if it had continued would have been a barrier to the advancement of civilizatioh itself.
" With these powers of absolute ownership lodged in the Cherokee government, the power to alienate, the power to lease, the power to grant rights
of occupancy, the power to restrict rights of occupancy, and with the exercise of those powers running back to the very year of the adoption of the
constitution, and receiving from that time to the present the unquestioning
acquiescence, of the former communal owners, the Cherokee people, it is
apparent, that the ' public domain' of the Cherokee Nation is analogous to
the ' public lands' of the United States or the ' demesne lands of the Crown,'
and that it is held absolutely by the Cherokee government, as all public
property is held, a trust for governmental purposes and to promote the
general welfare."

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

mention is made of these lands which constituted the bulk of
the Cherokee property, it is to be taken that no interest
therein was intended to be transferred; third, that this is
strengthened by the fact that there was a stipulation for the
purchase of certain lands at one dollar per acre; and, fourth,
that the contribution of the Delawares to the national property was so small, and the value of these lands so great, that
it could not have been in the contemplation of the parties
that the Delawares were to receive any interest in them.
Commenting generally upon this line of argument, it is
rather an endeavor to induce the court to reconstruct the contract and frame one more in accord with what, from the
present standpoint, would seem to have been equitable, than
to'interpret the contract which the parties made, in accordance with the plain import of the language which they used.
It is true that "rights and immunities" are often used as
descriptive of only political rights and immunities, and do not
necessarily include, prloperty lights, so thati-f these were the
only words by. which the intent of -the contracting parties
was to be determined, there Vvould be roon for the argument
that only politici1 rights and immunities were intended to be
granted.- But it must be borne in mind that the rights and
interest which the native Cherokees had in the reservation and
outlet sprang solely from citizenship in the Cherokee :Nation,
and that the grant of equal rights as members of the Cherokee Nation naturally carried with it the grant of all rights
springing from citizenship. So far as the provision in the
agreement for the purchase of homes is concerned, it will be
i)erg'.ived that no absolute title to these homes was granted.
We may take notice of the fact that the Cherokees in their
long occupation of this reservation had generally secured
homes for themselves; that the laws of the Cherokee Nation
provided for the appropriation by the several Cherokees of
lands for personal occupation, and that this purchase by the
Delawares was with the view of securing to the individual
Delawares the like homes; that the lands thus purchased and
paid for still remained a part of the Cherokee reservation.
And as a further consideration for the payment of this sum

CHEROKEE NATION v. J0URNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

for the purchase of homes the Delawares were guaranteed not
merely the continued occupancy thereof, but also that in case
of a subsequent allotment in severalty of the entire body of
lands among the members of the Cherokee Nation, they
should receive an aggregate amount equal to that which they
had purchased,'and such a distribution as would secure to
them the homes -upon which they had settled, together with
their improvements. So that if, when the -allotment was
made, there was for any reason not land enough to secure to
each member of the Cherokee Nation 160 acres, the Delawares were to have at least that amount, and the deficiency
would have to be borne by the native Cherokees pro rata.
In other words, there was no purchase of a distinct body of
lands, as in the case of the settlement of other tribes as tribes
within the limits of the Cherokee reservation. The individual
Delawares took their homes in and remaining in the Cherokee
reservation, and as lands to be considered in any subsequent
allotment in severalty among the members of the Cherokee
Nation. All this was in the line of the expressed thought of
a consolidation of these Delawares with and absorption of
them into the Cherokee Nation as individual members thereof.
If it be said that all of the Delaware trust funds were not
turned into the national fund it will be remembered that there
was no impropriety in the reservation of a part thereof in.
order to enable the Delawares to make such improvements as
they might desire on the tracts that they selected for homes,
and also that there was no certainty that all the members of
the Delaware tribe would elect to remove to the Cherokee
country, and that those who remained in Kansas were entitled
to their share in the Delaware national funds.
With regard to the claim that the Delawares paid an inconsiderable sum, if it was the intent that they' should share
equally with the native Cherokees in this vast body of lands
included in the reservation and outlet, it will be borne in mind
that the alleged gross inadequacy depends largely upon the
value of these thirteen millions of acres. Counsel for the
Cherokees place this value at $1.25 per acre - the minimum
price for government lands -and upon .that valuation base

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

their claim of inadequacy of consideration. They point to
the fact that the neutral lands in Kansas were estimated in
the agreement to be worth $1.25 an acre, and infer therefrom
that the lands in the Indian Territory were of like value.
But that is a mere inference, and over against it may be
placed such facts as these: On June 14, 1866, only about a
year before this agreement,. the Creeks, by treaty, sold to the
government a tract in the Indian Territory estimated to contain 3,250,560 acres, at the price of 30 cents per acre. 14: Stat.
785, 786. The Seminoles, on iMarch 21, 1866, likewise ceded
a tract estimated at 2,169,080 acres, at the rate of 15 cents an
acre, (14 Stat. 756,) and on April 28, 1866, the Chocktaws and
Chickasaws ceded a large tract, also in the Territory, for the
gross sum of $300,000 - a sum which, as counsel for the
appellees stated, ,was only at the rate of about 5 cents an
acre. 14 Stat. 769. The significance of these figures is not
destroyed by the fact that in 1889 Congress appropriated a
large sum for both the Creeks and Seminoles, to wit: to the
Creeks the sum of $2,280,857.10, and to the Seminoles the sum
of $1,912,942.02, 25 S'tat. c. 317, 757, 758; c. 412, 980, 1004,
apparently in further payment of these lands. For while this
may tend to show that Congress then felt that the Creeks and
Seminoles had not received a full price for their lands, it is
not inconsistent with the claim that in 1866 the contracting
parties considered the lands to be worth only the stipulated
price. Further than that, in pursuance of the provisions of
the fifth section of the act of May 29, 1872, c. 233, 17 Stat.
165, 190, an appraisement was made of the Cherokee lands
west of the 96th meridian, which appraisement, approved by
the President, fixed the value of a portion of such lands
(230,014.04 acres) at 70 cents, and the balance (6,344,562.01
acres) at 47.49 cents per acre. It may well be that lands
within the limits of a rapidly growing State were worth at
the time of this agreement $1.25 per acre, while lands within
the Indian Territory, situate as these were, were of much less
value. Neither should too much weight be given to the fact
that the Delawares were to pay for their homes at the rate
of a dollar an acre, for by that purchase they acquired no title

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the Court.

in fee simple, and it is not unreasonable to believe that the
price thus fixed was not merely as compensation for the value
of the lands, (to be taken in the eastern portion of the reservation, where the body of the Cherokees had their homes, and
therefore probably the most valuable portion of the entire
reservation,) but also as sufficient compensation for an interest
in the entire body of lands, that interest being like that of
the native Cherokees limited to a mere occupancy of the
tracts set apart for homes, with the'right to free use in common of the unoccupied portion of the reserve, and a right to
share in any future allotment. At any rate, with the uncertainty that exists as to its value, it cannot be said to be clear
that there was such gross inadequacy of consideration as is
urged by the counsel for the Cherokees; certainly nothing
which would justify a court of equity in setting aside the
contract on the ground of inadequacy.
But further, the thought of sale - at least of an early sale
- was evidently not in contemplation of the parties, or in line
with the then policy of the government. This Indian Territory was looked upon as the permanent home of the Indians.
The government was making the effort to bring within its
limits all the Indians from all parts of the land, and it was not
in the contemplation of the government, or of these contracting
parties, that at any early day these lands would be thrown
open to settlement and sale, but rather the idea was that they
were to be continued as their permanent place of abode. Considered as such, so long as each individual Indian, whether
Delaware or Cherokee, had his particular tract for occupancy
as a home, it was not unnatural or unequal that the vast body
of the lands not thus specifically and personally appropriated
should be treated as the common property of ihe Nation, in
respect to which all who were members thereof, whether by
birth or adoption, should be entitled to equal rights and privileges. That there might come a time when an allotment in
severalty would be advisable, was something that was contemplated and provided for. And while, if allotment had been
made at the time among the 13,573 Cherokees there would
have been enough land to have given each nearly 1000 acres,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

yet, with the expected coming in of other tribes, either to
take certain selected portions of the reservation as tribes by
an absolute title, or to enlarge the numbers of the Cherokee
Nation by adoption, (as in the case of these Delawares,) it was
foreseen that the time might come when the allotment might
not secure even 160 acres to each individual, and so was added
the express guarantee that the purchasing Delawares should
obtain at least that amount in the allotment. True, the course
of events has not been what was then contemplated, but in
order to determine the meaning of this contract we must
place ourselves in the circumstances of the parties at the time,
with their surroundings and expectations. In that light we
see nothing in the matters suggested by counsel sufficient to
overthrow the plain import of the language used in the agreemneyt, and must conclude that by such agreement the IDelawares became incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, became
members thereof, and, as such, entitled equally with the native
Cherokees to all their rights in the reservation and outlet.
Further, it may be remarked that the action of the Cherokee
Nation up to the year 1882 was in the line of the construction
we have placed upon this contract, for up to that date there
was no distinction made between the native Cherokees and
these Delawares in the distribution of funds from whatever
source obtained. Out of the moneys received by the Cherokee
Nation on account of lands west of the 96th degree set apart
for the Osage Indians, under the act of June 5, 1872, $200,000
was distributed per capita, in which distribution the Delawares
shared equally with the native Cherokees. And again, when,
on account of sales west of the 96th degree, Congress on June
16, 1880, appropriated $300,000, such sum was also paid out
per capita, the Delawares sharing equally with the native
Cherokees. Such action is of significance in determining the
understanding of the parties to the contract. It is a practical
interpretation by the parties themselves of the contract they
made. It is also worthy of note that when in 1883 a bill
passed the National Council for the payment to the native
Cherokees alone of a certain sum of money received as
rental from the Cherokee Strip Live Stock Association, which

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
Opinion of the .Court.

so far as appears was the first manifestation of a claim of a
difference between the native Cherokees and the registered
Delawares as to the extent of their interests in the lands or
tlx proceeds thereof, it was vetoed by D. W. Bushyhead, the
then Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, on the ground
that such action was in violation of the agreement of 1867.
It is true the bill was passed over his veto. While the veto
message is too long to quote in full, these extracts sufficiently
disclose the reasons on which it is based:
"3d. The 'patent' was made to the ' Cherokee Nation' in
1838, and the Cherokee Nation was then composed of citizens
by right of blood, and so continued to be until the exigencies
of the late war arose, when, in 1866, it became necessary to
make a new treaty with the United States government. By
this treaty, made by and with this Nation, other classes of persons were provided to be vested with all the rights of 'native
Cherokees'- upon specified conditions. These conditions have
been fulfilled as regards the acknowledged colored citizens of
this Nation and the so-called Delaware and Shawnee citizens.
I refer you to article 9th of said treaty in regard to colored
citizens, and article 15th, first clause, as regards Indians provided to be settled east of 96'. The language is, they shall
have all the rights of native Cherokees 'and' they shall be
incorporated into and ever after remain a part of the Cherokee
Nation on equal terms in every respect with native Cherokees.
"6th. If the lands of the Nation were and are the common
property of citizens, then no citizen can be deprived of his or
her right and interest in the property without doing an injustice, and without a violation of the constitution which we are
equally bound to observe and defend. While the lands remain
common property, all citizens have an equal right to the use
of it. When any of the land is sold under provisions of treaty,
all citizens have an equal right to the proceeds of their joint
property, whether divided per capita or invested.
"Senators, such is the treaty and such is the constitution. I
have referred you to them, and stated their evident meaning
in the premises ' to the best of my ability,' as is my duty. To

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the classes of citizens this bill would exclude, attach 'all the
rights and privileges of citizenship according to the constitution.' To three of these classes attach also all the rights
of ' native Cherokees,' according to treaty."
Further comment on this case is unnecessary. We see no
,-rror in the conclusions of the Court of Claims, and its decree is
Affirmed.

CHEROKEE NATION v. BLACKFEATHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLADIS.
No. 671. Argued and submitted October 18, 1894. -Decided

November 19, 1894.

A atipulation on the part of the Cherokees in an agreement made by them
with the Shawnees under authority of the act of October 1, 1890, c. 1249,
26 Stat. 636, that the Shawnees in consideration of certain payments by

them, etc., "shall be incorporated into and ever after remain a part of the
Cherokee Nation on equal terms in every respect and with all the privileges andimmunities of native citizens of said Cherokee Nation," secured
to the Shawnees equal rights with the Cherokees in that which was the
common property of the Cherokee Nation, namely, the reservation and
the outlet as well as all profits and proceeds thereof.
Without an appeal taken, a party will not be heard in an appellate court to
question the correctness of the decree in the trial court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge for the United
States, submitted on his brief.
.Mr. Charles A. M~axwell and

.r. George S. Chase for the

Cherokee Nation, appellant, submitted on their brief.
.Mr. Charles .Brownell for Blackfeather, appellee.
MR. JusTicE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is similar to that just decided in which the same
parties were appellants, and Chdrles Journeycake, Principal

