-OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Supreme Court of Ohio, which is the highest tribunal of
Ohio, and is expressly given jurisdiction by statute to review
the judgments and orders of the circuit court. But, if this
order be not a judgment or decree of a court, then it is not
reviewable here, because this court, under § 709, is given
authority to review only the judgment and decree of the
highest court of the State. In other words, the order cannot
be the order of a judge to defeat the jurisdiction in error of
the Supreme Court of Ohio, and at the same time an order of
a court to confer jurisdiction upon this court to issue a writ
of error. The argument in reality defeats itself. Its very
strength is also its weakness. By proving that a writ of error
will lie from this court, it also proves that a writ of error will
lie from the Supreme Court of Ohio, and this fact of itself
defeats the jurisdiction of this court. Whether the principle
of this case applies to other than habeas corpus cases we do
not undertake to determine.
The writ of error must, therefore, be

Dismissed.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE COMPANY v. ADAMS.
ERRO1

TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 649.

Submitted December 8,1894.--Decided January 21, 1895.

While a State cannot exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in- interstate or foreign commerce, or a corporation in the employment of the
general government, by the imposition of unreasonable conditions, it
may subject it to a property taxation incidentally affecting its occupation in the same way that business of individuals or other corporations
is affected by common governmental burdens.
The tax imposed by the laws of Mississippi, (Code of 1880, c. 10, § 585; Sess.
Laws 1888, c. 3,) when enforced against a telegraph company organized
under the laws of another State, and engaged in interstate commerce in
Mississippi, being graduated according to the amount and value of the
company's property measured by miles, and bWing in lieu of taxes directly
levied on the property, is a tax which it is within the power of the State
to impose; and the exercise of that power, as expounded by the highest
judicial tribunal of the State, does not amount to a regulation of interstate commerce, or put an unconstitutional restraint thereon.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

6S9

Statement of the Case.

By the revenue laws of Mississippi certain taxes were levied
as privilege taxes on various corporations, such as express
companies,.telegraph companies, insurance companies, sleepingcar companies, banks of deposit or discount, gas companies,
and the like; and on taverns,* hotels, restaurants, brokers,
auctioneers, pedlers, liquor sellers, dealers in malt liquors,
and so on. Code Miss. 18S0, c. 10, § 585; Sess. Laws Miss.
1888, 8, act of March 8, c. 3. The tax required to be paid by
telegraph companies was $3000 on each telegraph company
operating within the State one thousand miles or more of
wire, and on each telegraph company operating less than one
thousand miles of wire a tax of one dollar per mile, and the
tax thus levied was "in lieu of other state, county, and
municipal taxes." During the fiscal years 1890 and 1891 the
Postal Telegraph Cable Company, a corporation chartered
under the laws of New York, operated within the State of
Mississippi three hundred and ninety-one and twenty-eight
hundredths miles of wire. The telegraph lines,, equipment,
and property appertaining thereto, owned and operated by
the company within the limits of eighteen counties of the
State, were during these years worth and valued at the sum
of $41,967.54. The tax levied on the company by the law of
March 8, 1888, under the name, of privilege tax, amounted annually to $391.28, or an aggregate for the two years of $782.56.
Under the general revenue laws of the State the ad valorerm
tax on the property of the company for the two years would
have been $1188.56 for state and county purposes only, not
including what might have been assessed and collected by
municipalities in the way of ad valorem taxes for municipal
purposes. For the years 1890 and 1891 the company fail6d
to pay its taxes, and Adams, the state revenue agent of the
State of Mississippi, brought suit in the Circuit Court of Hinds
County, August 16, 1892, against the company therefor. The
first count of the declaration was for the privilege taxes and
the second count for ad valoremn taxes in the several counties
which it was alleged had been duly levied for state and
county purposes. The company demurred to the second
count and pleaded specially to the first count in substance,
VOL. CLV-44

OCTOBER TERI, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

and so far as essential here, that it was a telegraph company
duly incorporated and organized under the laws of the State
of New York, and was on the 1st days of January, 1890,
1891, and 1892, respectively, engaged in and still continued,
to carry on the business of a telegraph company, having
offices in various cities and towns in the State of Mississippi,
for the purpose of receiving and sending telegraphic messages
and maintaining and operating certain lines of telegraph on
the various post roads, public roads, and railroads extending
over, across, leading into and from the State of Mississippi to
the State of Alabama, and other points in other States of the
United States and the Dominion of Canada. That it was also
the lessee of the Atlantic Postal Telegraph Cable Company, a
corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of
New York, and by its charter authorized to construct and
operate lines of telegraph in and between the various States
of the Union, including the State of Mississippi. That as
such lessee and owner it was engaged in the general public
telegraph business of transmitting messages for commercial
purposes by, along, anti over its lines, within, from, through,
and across the State of Mississippi, and many other States
and Territories of the Union, and had offices for the receiving and sending of messages by telegraph in each and every
State and Territory wherein the lines leased or owned by it
extended, including the State of Mississippi. That on or
about the 6th day of March, 1886, the company duly filed
its written acceptance with the Postmaster-General of the
United States of the restrictions and obligations of the act of
Congress entitled "An act to aid in the construction of telegraph lines and to secure to the government the use of the
same for postal, military, and other purposes," approved July
24, 1866, now Title 65 of the United Stated Revised Statutes,
and that in pursuance thereof it had beert designated by the
Postmaster-General as one of the telegraph companies that
must transmit messages for the United States at a price and
rate to be fixed by the said Postmaster-General. That defendant was engaged as a governmental agent of the United
States, at the times mentioned, in transmitting messages for

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

691

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the government of the United States between its various
offices, not only from points within the State of Mississippi
to points without the State of Mississippi, but also for such
government officers from points wholly within the State of
Mississippi to other points also wholly within the State of
Mississippi; and that all of the roads upon which the lines
of said company were constructed were post roads of the
United States.
Plaintiff demurred to the special pleas. The case came on
to be heard upon these demurrers, and the Circuit Court sustained defendant's demurrer to the second count and plaintiff's demurrer to defendant's pleas to the first count, with
leave.to defendant to plead over. This, defendant declined
to do, and judgment was thereupon entered against the company for the amount of the so-called privilege taxes for the
years 1890 and 1891, with interest and costs. From this
judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of Mississippi, and the judgment affirmed. The opinion of that court
will be found reported in advance of- the official series in 14
Southern Rep. 36. A writ of error was then allowed to this
court.
M'. T. Moultrie .Mordecaiand .Mr.Philip H. Gadsden for
plaintiff in error.
I. The tax sought to be collected from the Postal Telegraph Cable Company is a license tax for the privilege of exercising its franchises within the State of Mississippi.
The Supreme Court of the State, in the course of its opinion in this case, says: "It will be thus seen at once that this is
a tax imposed upon a telegraph company in lieu of all others
as a privilege tax."
II. Such a tax, imposed upon a foreign corporation, engaged in. interstate commerce and in transmitting messages
for the government of the United States, for the privilege of
exercising its franchises within the State, is unconstitutional
and void.
This court has decided in a large number of cases that no

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

State can place a restriction in any form upon interstate commerce, either upon the commerce itself, the business of doing
interstate commerce, or the instruments and means employed
to carry on such commerce. Norfolk & W1estern Railroad
v. ,Pennsylvania, 136 U. S. 114; Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141
U. S. 47; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161; Pensacola Tel.
Co. v. Western Union Tel. Co., 96 U. S. 1; Telegraph Co. v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 464; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania,
114 U. S. 196; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing District, 120
U. S. 489 ; Fargo v. .Michigan, 121 U. S. 230.
In Pickardv. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S. 34, 43,
this court passed upon the identical question involved in the
case at bar. The legislature of the State of Tennessee passed
an act which, imposed a privilege tax of fifty dollars per
annum on every sleeping car or coach run over a railroad in
Tennessee, and the court held such act unconstitutional so far
as it applied to the interstate transportation of passengers
carried over the railroads in Tennessee into or out of or across
that State in sleeping cars owned by a corporation of Kentucky. The opinion of the court on this point is as follows:
"The point upon which the final judgment was rendered in
the case was the one considered and adjudged in the decision
given on the demurrer to the declaration. The tax was not a
property tax, because under the constitution of Tennessee, all
property must be taxed according to its value, and this tax
was not measured by value, but was an arbitrary charge.
What was done by the plaintiff was taxed as a privilege, it
being assumed by the state authorities, that the legislature
had the power under the constitution of Tennessee to enact the
6th section of the act of 1877, and that the plaintiff had done
what that section declared to be a privilege. By the decisions
of the Supreme Court of Tennessee cited in the opinion of the
Circuit Court on the demurrer, it is held, that the legislature
may declare the right to carry on any business or occupation
to be a privilege, to be purchased from the State on such conditions as the statute law may prescribe, and that it is illegal
to carry on such business without complying with those conditions. In this case the payment of the tax imposed was a

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

693

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

condition prescribed, without complying with which, what was
done by the plaintiff was made illegal. The tax was imposed
as a condition precedent to the right of the plaintiff to run and
use the thirty-six sleeping cars owned by it, as it ran and used
them on railroads in Tennessee. The privilege tax is hld by
the Supreme Court of Tennessee to be a license tax, for the privilege of doing the thing for which the tax is imposed, it being
ufilawful to do the thing without paying the tax. . . . The
tax was really one on the right of transit, though laid wholly
on the'owner of the car."
The decision in Leloup v. Port o.f iAobile, 127 U. S. 640,
644, 645, seems to be conclusive of the question under consideration. The Western Union Telegraph Company, having an
office in the city of Mobile, was required to pay a license tax
under a city ordinance impbsing such a tax "on all telegraph
companies." The court said: "1In approaching the question
thus presented it is proper to note that the license tax in question is purely a tax on the privilege of doing the business in
which the telegraph company was engaged. By the laws of
Alabama in force at the time this tax was imposed, the telegraph company was required in addition to pay taxes to the
State, county and port of Mobile, on its poles, wires, fixtures
and other property at the same rate and to the same extent as
other corporations and individuals were required to do . ..
"The question is squarely presented to us, therefore,
whether a State, as a condition of doing business within its
jurisdiction, may exact a license tax from a telegraph company, a large part of whose business is the transmission of
messages from one State to another and between the United
States and foreign countries, and which is invested with the,
powers and privileges conferred by the act of Congress,'
passed July 24, 1866, and other acts incorporated in Title
65 of the Revised Statutes! Can a State prohibit such a
company'from doing a business within its jurisdiction, unless
it will pay a tax and procure a license for the privilege? If
it can, it can exclude such companies, and prohibit the transaction of such business altogether. We are not prepared to
say that this can be done."I

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

"Ordinary occupations are taxed in various ways, and in
most cases legitimately taxed. But we fail to see how a State
can tax a business occupation when it cannot tax the business
itself. Of course, the exaction of a license tax as a condition
of doing any particular business, is a tax on the occupation,
and a tax on the occupation of doing business is surely a tax
on the business."
This case has been often referred to with approval in subsequent opinions of the court. Asher v. Texas, 128 U. S. 129;
Vestern Union Tel. Co. v. Alabama, 132 U. S. 472; -Lyng v.
.Michigan,135 U. S.166; McCall v. California,136 U. S.104;
Crutcher v. -Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47; Pacifio Express Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339; JMassachusetts v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 141 U. S.40; Pullman's Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141
U. S.18. See also PensacolaTel. Co. v. lVestern Union Tel. Co.,
96 U. S.1; Telegraph Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460; Western
Union Tel. Co. v. _Massachusetts, 125 U. S.530; Ratterman v.
Western Union Tel. Co., 127 U. S.411; PhiladelphiaSouthern Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S.326.
It thus appears that the principle we contend for has been
repeatedly reaffirmed by this court in every decision, and in
every case in which the question was presented. Upon no
principle of law have the opinions of this court been so
clearly defined and so often affirmed. Any interference on
the part of the State with interstate commerce is violative
of the Federal Constitution.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi has endeavored at great
length to show that the utterances of this court upon this
question have been so divergent and so conflicting that no
authoritative ruling can be deduced from them. The Mississippi court admits that if it should be governed by the principles announced in Pensacola Tel. Co. v. Western Union Tel.
Co., 96 U. S. 1, and the other cases cited, the settlement of the
controversy would be made without great difficulty in accordance with the contention of the appellant; but it contends
that the principles announced by the last cited cases are diametrically opposed to those announced in State Tax on -Railway Gross Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Osborne v. Mobile, 16 Wall.

'POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

695

Opinion of the Court.

479; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365;
faine v. Grand Trunk Railway Co., 142 U. S. 217; Picklen
v. Skelby County, 145 U. S. 1; and St. Louis v. Western Union
Tel. Co., 148 U. S. 92.
If that court had made a careful analysis of the last cited
cases and had followed the interpretation put upon those cases
by this court in subsequent decisions, their apparent conflict
would have disappeared.
III. In making no exception for business done by the Telegraph Company for the government of the United States,
both interstate and intrastate, the act of the State of Mississippi is ultra vires, unconstitutional, and void.
This is a tax upon the entire operations of the company
and necessarily includes all business done by the. telegraph
company, both foreign and domestic, and it is admitted in
this case that a part of the business of the telegraph company
consists of messages sent for the government of the .United
States, its agents and officers.
The proposition submitted is that as there is no exception
in the act as to governmental messages, the act is in effect a
tax upon business of the United States government and a
restraint and regulation upon the operations of the officers of
the government in discharge of their governmental duties.
While it is universally recognized that the property of a governmental agent situate within the State is subject to taxation
as all other property within the State, it has been repeatedly
declared that no State can impose a burden upon the business
or occupation of such agency; it matters not whether such
business of said government agent be intrastate or interstate,
or partly both.
.Mr. Aftarcellus Green for defendant in error.
MR. CHI

JUSTiE

FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

-the opinion of the court.
It is settled that where by way of duties laid on the transportation of the, subjects of interstate commerce, or on the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

receipts derived therefrom, or on the occupation or business
of carrying it on, a tax is levied by a State on interstate comimerce, such taxation amounts to a regulation of such coinmerce and cannot be sustained. But property in a State
belonging to a corporation, whether foreign or doniestic, engaged in foreign or interstate commerce, may be taxed, or a
tax may be imposed on the oorporation on account of its property within a State,. and may take the form of a tax for the
privilege of exercising its franchises within the State, if the ascertainment of the amount is made dependent in fact on the
value of its property situated within the State, (the exaction,
therefore, not being susceptible of exceeding the sum which
might be leviable directly thereon,) and if payment .be not
made a condition precedent to the right to carry on the business, but its enforcement left to the ordinary means devised
for the collection of taxes. The corporation is thus made to
bear its proper proportion of the burdens of the government
under whose protection it conducts its operations, while interstate commerce is not in itself subjected to restraint or impediment.
As pointed out by Mr. Tustice Field in Horn Silver .Mining Company v. _Htew York, 143 U. S. 305, the right of a Stateto tax the franchise or privilege of being a corporation, as
personal property, has been repeatedly recognized by this
court, and this whether the corporation be a domestic, or a foreign corporation doing business by its permission within the
State. But a State cannot exclude from its limits a corporation engaged in interstate or foreign commerce, or d corporation in the employment of the general government, either
directly in terms or indirectly by the imposition of inadmissible conditions. Nevertheless theState may subject it to such
property taxation as only incidentally affects its occupation,
as all business, whether of individuals or corporations, is
affected by common governmental burdens. Ashley v. Ryan,
153 U. S. 436, and cases cited.
Doubtless, no State could add to the taxation of property
according to the rule of ordinary property taxation, the
burden of a license or other tax on the privilege of using, con-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

697

Opinion of the Court.

structing, or operating an instrumentality of interstate or international commerce or for the carrying on of such commerce ;
but the value of property results from the use to which it is
put and varies with the profitableness of that use, and by
whatever name the exaction may be called, if it amounts to
no more than the ordinary tax upon property or a just equivalent therefor, ascertained by reference thereto, it is not open
to attack as inconsistent with the Constitution. Cleveland,
Cincinnati &c. iailway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 445.
The method of taxation by "a tax on privileges" has been
determined by the Supreme Court of, Mississippi to be in harmony with the constitution of that State, and that, "where
the particular arrangement of taxation provided by legislative
wisdom may be accounted for on the assumption of compounding or commuting for a just equivalent, according to
the determination of the legislature, in the general scheme of
taxation, it will not be condemned by the courts as violative
Vicksburg Bank v. Worrell, 67
of the [state] constitution."
Mississippi, 47, 58. In that case privilege taxes imposed on
banks of deposit or discount, which varied with the amount
of capital stock or assets, and were declared to be "in lieu of
all other taxes, state, county or municipal, upon the shares
and assets of said banks," came under review, and it was
decided that the privilege tax, to be effectual as a release
from liability for all other taxes, must be measured by the
capital stock and entire assets or wealth of the bank, and
that real estate bought with funds of the bank was exempt
from the ordinary ad v'aorem taxes, but was part of the assets
of the bank to be considered in fixing the basis of its privilege
tax.
And in the case at bar the Supreme Court, in its examination of the liability of plaintiff in error for the taxes in question, said: "It will be thus seen at once that this is a tax
imposed upon a telegraph company, in lieu of all others, as a
privilege tax, and its amount is graduated according to the
amount and value of the property measured by miles. It is
to be noticed that it is in lieu of all other taxes, state, county,
municipal. The reasonableness of the imposition appears in

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the record, as shown by the second count of the declaration
and its exhibits whereby the appellant seems to be burdened in
this way with a tax much less than that which would be produced if its property had been subjected to a single ad valorem
tax." This exposition of the statute brings it within the rule
where ad valoremn taxes are compounded or commuted for a
just equivalent, determined. by reference to the amount and
value of the property. Being thus brought within the rule,
the tax becomes substantially a mere tax on property and not
one imposed on the privilege of doing interstate business.
The substance and not the shadow determines the validity of
the exercise of the power.
The act in prescribing the ascertainment of the charge as
to telegraph companies operating less than one thousand miles
of wire, was directed to reach a reasonable commutation of
the amount which the company would be compelled to pay
if the taxation were ad valorem. The taxation was neither
arbitrary nor discriminating, nor, so far as we are advised,
was payment made a condition precedent to doing business,
but collection was enforceable by suit and the remedies pertaining thereto, and not otherwise. Code Mississippi, 1880,
§§ 585, 587, 588, 589, 594.
We concur with the.view of the act thils expressed by the
Supreme Court of the State, and, accepting it as correct, it
is obvious that the case does not fall within the line of
decisions in which state laws have been held inoperative
because in conflict with, or amounting to the exercise of, or
the assertion of control over, a power vested exclusively in the
United States. In those decisions the interference with the
commercial power was found to be direct, and not the mere
incidental effect of the requirement of the usual proportional
contribution to public mintenance.
They need not be reexamined here, as the taxation in question, according to the proper interpretation of the statute, is
in principle such as was sustained in Western Union Teegraph
Co. v. Massachusetts, 125 U. S.530; Ratterman v. West. Un.
Telegraph Co., 127 U. S.411; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania,14,1 U. S.18; Massachusetts v. West. Un. Tele-

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

699

Opinion of the Court.

graph Co., 141 U. S. 40; Maine v. G'and Tunk Railway,
142 U. S. 217.
In Massachusetts v. WIesterm Union Tel. Co., it was held
that the tax imposed by the statutes of Massachusetts requiring every telegraph company owning a line of telegraph
within the State to pay to the state treasurer "a tax upon
its corporate franchise at a valuation thereof equal to the
aggregate value of the shares in its capital stock," deducting
such portion of that valuation as is proportional to the length
of its lines without the State, and deducting also an amount
equal to the value of its real estate and machinery, subject to
local taxation within the State, was in effect a tax upon the
corporation on account of property used by it within the
State; and was constitutional and valid as applied to a telegraph company incorporated by another State, and which
had accepted the rights conferred by Congress by section
5263 of the Revised Statutes. In arriving at this conclusion, Western Union Tel. Go. v. .Massachusetts, 125 U. S. 530,
was followed, and the following propositions affirmed in that
case were reiterated by Mr. Justice Gray, delivering the
opinion of the court: "The franchise of the company to be
a corporation, and to carry on the business of telegraphing,
was derived not from the act of Congress, but from the laws
of the State of New York, under which it was organized;
and it never could have been intended by the Congress of
the United States, in conferring upon a corporation of one
State the authority to enter the territory of any other State,
and to erect its poles and lines therein, to establish the proposition that such a company owed no obedience to the laws
of the State into which it thus entered, and was under no
obligation to pay its fair proportion of the taxes necessary to
the support of the government of that State. 125 U. S. 547,
548. By whatever name the tax may be called, as described
in the laws of Massachusetts, it is essentially an excise upon
the capital of the corporation; and those laws attempt to
ascertain the just amount which any corporation engaged in
business within its limits shall pay as a contribution to the
support of its government upon the amount and value of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Harlan, J.J.

capital so employed by it therein. 125 U. S. 517.- The tax,
though nominally upon the shares of the capital stock of the
company, is in effect a tax upon that organization on account
of property owned and used by it in the State of Massachusetts; and the proportion of the length of its lines in that
State to their entire length throughout the whole country is
made the basis for ascertaining the value of that property.
Such a tax is not forbidden by the acceptance on the part of
the telegraph company of the rights conferred by § 5263 of
the Revised Statutes, or by the commerce clause of the Constitution. 125 U. S. 552. The statute of Massachusetts is
intended to govern the taxation of all corporations doing business within its territory, whether organized under its own
laws or under those of some other State; and the rule
adopted to ascertain the amount of the value of the capital
engaged in that business within its boundaries, on which the
tax should be assessed, is not an unfair or unjust one; and
the details of the method by which this was determined
have not exceeded the fair range of legislative discretion.
125 U. S. 553."
In the case before us, the tax was graduated according to
the amount and value of the property measured by miles,
and was in lieu of taxes levied directly on the property. In
marking the distinction between the power over commerce
and municipal power, literal adherence to particular nomenclature should not be allowed to control construction in arriving at the true intention and effect of state legislation. We
are of opinion that it was within the power of the State to
levy a charge upon this company in the form of a franchise
tax but arrived at with reference to the value of its property
within the State and in lieu of all other taxes, and that the
exercise of that power by this statute, as expounded by the
highest judicial tribunal of the State in the language we have
quoted, did not amount to a regulation of interstate commerce or put an unconstitutional restraint thereon.
Judgment afflmed.
MR. JUSTICE

BREWER,

HARLAN, dissenting.

with whom concurred MR. JusTicE

POSTAL TELEGRAPH CABLE CO. v. ADAMS.

701

Dissenting Opinion: Brewer, Harlan, JJ.

Mr. Justice Harlan and I are unable to concur in the foregoing decision. We are of opinion that the act of the State
of Mississippi, fairly construed, imposes a tax upon the plaintiff in error for the privilege of doing within the limits of
the State the business of an interstate carrier of telegraphic
messages, and is, therefore, a regulation of interstate commerce; and that this characteistic ofthe tax is not affected
by the question whether the amount thereof be more or less
than the sum which the company would have had to pay if
its property had been subjected to the ordinary property tax
levied for state, county, and municipal purposes.

