PEARCE v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

PEARCE v. TEXAS.
ERROR

TO THE COURT OF

CRIMINAL

APPEALS

OF THE STATE

OF TEXAS.
No. 696. Submitte4 November 19, 1894.-Decided December 10, 1894.
F. being arrested in:Texas on a requisition from the governor of Alabama
for his extradition for trial in Alabama on an indictment for embezzlement and larceny, sought his discharge through a writ of habeas colpus
on the ground of the invalidity of the indictment under the laws of
Alabama. The Court of Criminal Appeals of Texas decided that, as it
appeared that P. was charged by an indictment in Alabama with the
commission of an offence there, and that all the. other prerequisites for
his extradition had been complied with, he should be extradited, leaving
the courts of Alabama to decide whether the indictment was sufficient, and
whether the statute of that State was in violation of the Constitution
of the United States. Held, that this decision did not deny to P. any
right secured to him by the Constitution and laws of the United States:
and did not erroneously dispose of a Federal question.
MOTION

to dismiss or affirm.

The case is stated in the

opinion.
Mr. W
=liam
L. Martin, Attorney General of the State of
Alabama, for the motion.
No one opposing.
M .

CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
George A. Pearce was arrested in the Statb of Texas on, an
executive warrant issued by the governor of that State, upon
the requisition of the governor of the State of Alabama, to be
delivered up to the State of Alabama to answer two indictments
against him in the city court of Mobile, Alabama, each charging him with embezzlement and grand larceny; and while in
the custody of the agent of the State of Alabama to be transported to Mobile for trial upon said indictments he sued out a
writ of kalea8 corpus before the judge of the 42d district of

OCTOBER TERM,
1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the State of Texas, praying, for the reasons therein stated, to
be discharged. On the hearing of the petition the district
judge refused to discharge Pearce, and remanded him to the
cust6dy of the agent. Pearce thereupon appealed to the Court
of Criminal Appeals of the State of Texas, the court of last
resort in criminal matters, where the judgment below was
affirmed. 32 Tex. Crim. App. 301.
The grounds on which the relator contended that he was
entitled to be discharged were, as stated by the Court of Appeals, that the indictments were insufficient to authorize his
extradition, because it was not alleged therein that the offences
were committed in the State of Alabama, and in violation of
her laws; that the indictments were wholly void in that no
time or place were laid therein, and it did not appear where the
offenc.es were committed, nor that they were not long since
barred. Relator further showed that he had been a citizen of
Texas for more than three years, and that his whereabouts
were known to interested parties in Alabama, this proof being
made under the statute of limitations, presumably of Texas, as
it did not appear how long the offences were committed prior
to the February term, 1889, of the Mobile city court, at which
term the indictments were found, nor what was the statute of
limitations in Alabama, if any, for embezzlement and theft.
The relator did not deny that he was a fugitive from justice
within the rule on that subject or raise any issue thereon.
The record showed the requisition made by the governor of
Alabama; copies of the indictments duly certified; the warrant
of the governor of Texas; and in effect the relator relied for
his discharge entirely upon the invalidity of the indictments.
The District Judge certified that, on the hearing below, he
had examined the laws of the State of Alabama, and found the
inilictments sufficient thereunder, or "at least not void."
An opinion was filed in the Court of Appeals by Simkins, J.,
in which it was held that any indictment which, under the
laws of the demanding State, sufficiently charges the crime,
will sustain a requisition even though insufficient under the
laws of the asylum State; that in this case there was no question as to the nature of the crimes-charged, and that they were

PE RCE v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

offences against the laws of Alabama; that indictments dispensing with the allegations of time and venue in conformity
with the code of Alabama had been sustained by judicial decision in that State, Noles v. State, 24 Alabama, 672; fThonmson v. State, 25 Alabama, 41 ; and were .not necessarily fatally
defective in every State of the Union, whatever its statutes, or
forms of proceeding. The majority of the court did not concur in all the propositions stated in the opinion, but expressed
their views as follows: "We desire to modify certain propositions stated in the opinion of Judge Simkins. It is intimated,
if not stated direetly, that the relator would have the right to
show by proper evidence that the indictment in substance was
not sufficient under the laws of the demanding State. Our
position upon this question is that if it reasonably appears upon
the trial of the habeas corpus that the relator is charged by
indictment in the demanding State, whether the indictmentbe
sufficient or not under the law of that State, the court trying
the habeas corpus case will not discharge the relator because
of substantial defects in the indictment under the laws of the
demanding State. To require this would entail upon the court
an investigation of the sufficiency of the indictment in the demanding State, when the true rule is that if it appears to the
court that he is charged by an indictment with an offence, all
other prerequisites being complied with, the applicant should
be extradited. We are not discussing the character of such
proof; this must be made by a certified copy of the indictment, etc."
It was not disputed that the indictments were in substantial
conformity with the statute of Alabama in that behalf, and
their sufficiency as a matter of technical pleading would not be
inquired into on habeas corpus. Ex parte 1Reggel, 114 U. S.
642. Nor was there any contention as to the proper demand
having been made by the executive authority of the State from
whence the petitioner had departed, or in respect of the discharge of .the duty imposed by the Constitution and laws of
the United States on the executive authority of the asylum
State to cause the surrender. The question resolved itself,
therefore, into one of the validity of the statute on the ground

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

of its repugnancy to the Constitution, and the Court of Appeals
declined to decide in favor of its validity. And if it could be
said upon the record that any right under the Constitution had
been specially set up and claimed by plaintiff in error at the
proper time and in the proper way, the state court did not
decide against such right, for the denial of the right depended
upon a decision in favor of the validity of the statute. What
the state court did was to leave the question as to whether
the statute was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, and the indictments insufficient accordingly, to the
demanding State. Its action in that regard simply remitted
to the courts of Alabama the duty of protecting the accused in
the enjoyment of his constitutional rights, and if any of those
rights should be denied him, which is not to be presumed, he
could then seek his remedy in this court.
We cannot discover that the Court of Appeals, in declining
to pass upon the question raised in advance of the courts of
Alabama, denied to plaintiff in error any right secured to him
by the Constitution and laws of the United States, or that the
court in announcing that conclusion erroneously disposed of a
Federal question.
Judgmentafrmed.

WEHRMAN

v. CONKLIN.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.

No. 45. Argued October 31, 1894. - Decided December 10, 1894.
The general principles of equity jurisprudence, as administered in this
country and in England, permit a bill to quiet title to be filed only by a

party in possession, against a defendant who has been ineffectually
seeking to establish a legal title by repeated actions of ejectment; and
as a prerequisite to such bill it was necessary that the title of the plaintiff shpuld have been established by at least one successful trial at law.
The statutes of Iowa, (Code, ยง 3273,) having enlarged the jurisdiction of the
courts of equity of that State by providing that " an action to determine

and quiet title to real property may Pe brought by any one having or

