INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTING CO. v. LAMONT.

303

Statement of the Case.

the same invented by Steward, nor a mechanical equivalent of
the same. We hold, therefore, that the twenty-first claim
was not infringed.
But for the reasons given above the decree of the court
below must be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor further proceedings in
conformity with this opinion.

UNITED STATES ex rel. THE INTERNATIONAL
CONTRACTING COMPANY v. LAMONT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLU1TBIA.
No. 689. Argued and submitted October 28, 1894. -IDecided

December 10, 1894.

As mandamus will only lie to enforce a ministerial duty, as distinguished
from a duty that is merely discretionary, and as the duty must exist
at the time when the application is made, the Secretary-of War cannot
be required by mandamus to sign a contract for the performance of
work by a party who is already under written contract with him to perform the same work for the Government at a lower price and under
different conditions.

IN pursuance of an act of Congress making an appropriation
for that purpose, an advertisement appeared August 6, 1892,
inviting proposals for doing certain work in Gowanus Bay,
New York. The work was divided into three parts, as follows.: first for Bay Ridge Channel; second, for Red Hook
Channel; and third, for Gowanus Creek Channel. The advertisement, moreover, stated the sums of money which were
available for the work on each separate channel, and it was
announced that the work must be commenced on October 1,
1892, and be completed on or before December 31, 1893. In
answer to the advertisement, the relator bid upon the work.
His prgposition was to do it all at a uniform rate of 19.7 of a
cent per cubic yard, "sco w measurement," and with two dredge
boats, one of which would commence Work within ninety
days from the awarding of the contract, and the other within

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

nine months thereafter. He also undertook to complete the
entire work on or before June 1, 1894. In the event of an
epidemic prevailing in the locality, he reserved the right to
cease work until he should think it prudent to resume. The
relator's bid was the lowest, and on September 22, LieutenantColonel Gillespie, of the Engineer Corps, who had issued the
advertisement as the Engineer and officer in charge of the
work, and at whose office the bids had been opened, addressed
the relator the following letter:
"NEw Yonx, N. Y., September 22, 1892.
"Mr. Joseph Edwards, President of the International Contracting Co., 16 Exchange Place, N. Y. city.
"Si: The proposal of the International Contracting Co.,
oiened in this office September 14, 1892, for dredging channels in Gowauus Bay, N. Y., 19.T cents per cubic yard, has
been accepted by the Chief of Engineers, U. S. Army.
"After the contract for the work has been .prepared you
will be notified to call at this office to sign it.
"The regulations require that any instrument executed by
an incorporated company shall be under its corporate seal,
and evidence should be furnished, also under the corporate
seal, as to the official character of the person by whom it is
'executed, and that he ig duly authorized to execute the same
on behalf of the corporation.
" Please furnish this office with the names and addresses of
your proposed sureties, each to justify in the sum of $45,000.
41 A memorandum is enclosed containing instructions for
the preparation of contractors' bonds. The execution of the
necessary bond,. however, will be deferred until the articles of
agreement have been completed in every respect
"Very respectfully,
G. L. GILLESPIE,
"I t. Col. of Engineers."

On September 23 the Secretary of War called on the Chief
of Engineers for the papers relating to the matter, and they
were submitted to him. On the following day the Chief of
Engineers sent this telegram to Colonel Gillespie:

INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTING CO. v. LAMONT.

305

Statement of the Case.
D. C., September 24, 1892.
"To Colonel G. L. Gillespie, Engineer, Army Buildings, Whitehall Street, New York, N. Y. :
"Do not proceed further with closing a contract with the
International Dredging Company for Gowanus work until
further instructions. Acknowledge receipt of this.
"WAHINGTON,

" TURTLE,

Engineers."

On October 7 *the Acting Secretary of War addressed the
following letter to the relator:
" October 7,1892.
" GENTLEMEN: The matter of. the contract for dredging in
Gowanus Bay is not yet settled. and the action of the department upon the bids received has not yet been determined upon.
It is reslpectfully suggested that if you desire -to be heard upon
the subject an opportunity is offered. Any representation you
desire to make, either by writing or orally, by attorney or by
any officer of your company, will be respectfully.received and
considered. It is hoped that you will be able to do this
by Tuesday - certainly not later than Wednesday - of next
week.
L. A. GRANT,
"Very respectfully,
" Acting Secretary of War.
"The International Dredging Company, Post Building, 12
to 28 Exchange Place, New York city."
The Secretary of War acted upon the papers after hearing
the relator, who claimed that his bid was final and could not
be reconsidered, and decided that he had the power to refuse
to consummate the contract upon the following grounds:
"First, that said acceptance of the bid of the relator was
not properly made and was not binding on the government.
"Second, that said bid and the bid of the W. H. Beard
Dredging Company, hereafter mentioned- which was the
next lowest bid-were irregular and improper, and that
neither should be accepted."
Accordingly he ordered the work to be readvertised. The
new advertisement appeared on October 26, 1892. It called
VOL. CLV-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

for proposals which differed from those contemplated by the
first advertisement in several important particulars -first, in
striking out the clause referring to the eight hour law ; second,
in changing time for the commencement of the work, requiring it to be commenced on April 5, 1893, instead of October
1, 1892; and, third, by calling for its completion by August
1, 189 4, instead of December 31, 1893. Pending this bid
and before any adjudication on it, the relatQr commenced in
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia a suit to compel Mr. Elkins, then incumbent of the office of Secretary of
War, to sign a contract with him for the work as covered by
the first proposals and specifications, and the bid made thereunder. Before this suit was disposed of the bids under the
second advertisement were opened on December 1, 1892, and
it was found that the relator had again bidden for the work,
this time offering to do it for 13.7 cents per cubic yard instead
of 19.7 cents per cubic yard, which was his original bid.
Being again the lowest bidder, he obtained the contract from
the War Department for the work under the new specification.
The mandamus proceeding remained pending on the docket
of this court, having been brought hither from the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia. After Mr. Elkins ceased
to be Secretary of War, October 23, 1893, upon suggestion by
counsel for the relator that the suit had consequently abated,
it was dismissed. The relator then called upon Mr. Elkins'
successor, Mr. Lamont, and demanded that he should sign the
contract awarding the relator the work under the first specifications. This demand the Secretary refused to comply with,
in the following communication:
"WAR

DEPARTMENT,

"WASHIiGTON, D. C., November 1, 1893.
"GENTLEMEN:

I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt

of your communication of November 4, 1893, in which, on
behalf of the International Contracting Company, you request
me, ' as the Secretary of the Department of War for the time
being, to execute and deliver to that company a contract' conforming in all respects to the proposal filed by said company
with Lieutenant-Colonel Gillespie on the 19th day of Septem-

INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTING CO. v. LAMONT.

307

Opinion of,the Court.

ber,1892, and the acceptance thereof by the Secretary of War
through the acting Chief of Engineers.'
"Your request is respectfully declined for the same reasons
that my predecessor declined to enter into such a contract,
and the additional reason that the International Contracting
Company are now under contract to do the work for about
two-thirds the.amount named in said proposal. I see no justification for entering into another contract with them or for
paying them $100,000 more than their contract calls for.
"Very .respectfully yours,
"(Signed)
DANIEL S. LAMoNr,
"Becretarf of War."
Upon this refusal, the relator commenced proceedings by a
mandamus against Secretary Lamont in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia, to compel him to execute and deliver
to the relator the contract for the work under the specifications set forth in the first advertisement, and meeting with an
adverse decision, he first took his case to the Court of Appeals
of the District, where the judgment below was affirmed, and
thence he brought it to this court by writ of error.
Mr. A. 8. Worthington for plaintiff in error. .Mr. William
.N. Cromwell, Mr. William J. Curtis, Mr. W. 1. Dudley, and
_Yr. L. T. -Michnerwere on his brief.
Mr.Solioitor General Maxwell, for defendants in error, submitted on his brief.
MR.JUSTICE WH=TE, after stating the facts, delivered the
opiftion of the cofurt.

Much was said in argument at bar upon the question of
when a contract is to be regarded as completed under the
circumstances here presented, and the discussion concerning
the authority of the Secretary of War to review the action
of an officer of engineers in such a case, and to direct a new
adjudication, has taken a wide range. We deem the consideration of both these points unnecessary in view of the relator's

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

bids under the second advertisement and specifications, and
his contract to do the work at a less price and under new conditions. It is elementary law that mandamus will only lie to
enforce a ministerial duty, as contra-distinguished from a duty
which is merely discretionary. This doctrine was clearly and
fully set forth by Chief Justice Marshall in 3f-arbury v. .3adison, 1 Cranch, 137, and has since been many times reasserted
by this court. See Kendall v. Stokes, 3 H16w. 87; Brashear
v. .Aason, 6 How. 92; Reeside v. 1Jal/ker, 11"How. 272; Commissioner of Patents v. Whiteley, 4 Wall. 522; United States
v. Seaman, 17 How. 225, 231 ; United States v. Guthrie, 17
How. 284; United States v. The Commissioner, 5 Wall. 563;
Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347; The Secretary v. XfcGarrahan,9 Wall. 298; United States v. Sehurz, 102 U. S. 378;
Butterworth v. floe, 112 1U. S. 50 ; United States v. Black, 128
U. S. 40; Commissioners of Taxing Dist. of Brownsville v.
Loague, 129 U. S. 493; Noble v. Union River Logging Railroad, 147 U. S. 165.
The duty to be enforced by mandamus must not only be
merely ministerial, but it must be a duty which exists at the
time when the application for the mandamus is made. Thus
in the case of Exaparte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604, 612, this court,
speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Waite, said: "It is settled
that more cannot be required of a public officer by mandamus
than the law has made it his duty to do. The object of the
writ is to enforce the performance of an existing duty, not to
create a new one."
Moreover, the obligation must be both peremptory, and
plainly defined. The law must not only authorize the act,
Commonwealth v. Boutwell, 13 Wall. 526, but it must re uire
the act to be done. "A mandamus will not lie against the
Secretary of the Treasury unless the laws require him to do
what he is asked in the petition to be made to do," Reeside v.
Walker, 11 H1ow. 272; see also Secretary v. .AGarrahan,9
Wall. 298; and the duty must be "clear and indisputable."
Knox County Commissioners v. Aspinwall, 24 How. 376.
Now, at the time that this application was made for a mandamus against Secretary Lamont, the relator had entered into

INTERNATIONAL CONTRACTING CO. v. LAZONT.

309

Opinion of the Court.

a contract to do the work in question at a lower price than
that mentioned in the first advertisement and bid, and on
different terms. This contract had been entered into by him
voluntarily. We cannot perceive any duty which under these
circumstances rested upon the Secretary of War to sign such
a contract with the relator as would be required by the mandamus which is prayed. It cannot be reasonably contended
that he is under any obligation to sign two contracts with the
same person for the same work at a different price and under.
different conditions. Nor can it be urged with any greater
reason that the relator was entitled to have signed a contract
to do work for 19.7 cents per cubic yard, which he had subsequently made a voluntary contract to do for 13.7 cents per
cubic yard, andd upon conditions different from those mentioned in his first proposal. In order to justify the issue of
the writ, then, it would be necessary for us to hold that the
second contract was void,.and thereby to relieve the relator
from obligations which he has assumed, and release him from
the binding force of terms and stipulations to which he has
subjected himself. Inasmuch as no such duty as that which
the granting of this writ would seek to enforce exists, and no
right subsists in the relator which this writ could secure him,
there is no ground for issuing it. The writ of mandamus cannot be used to set aside a contract which has been voluntarily
entered into. Detroit Free Pre8s Co. v. Board of Auditor8,
47 Michigan, 135.
But even if the writ of mandamus could be so perverted as
to make it serve the purposes of an ordinary suit, the relator
is in no position to avail himself of such relief. He entered of
his own accord into the second contract and has acted under
it and has taken advantages .which resulted from his action
under it, having received the compensation which was to be
paid under its terms. Having done all this, he is .stopped
from denying the validity of the contract. Oregonian Railway v. Oregon Railway, 10 Sawyer, 464. Nor does the fact
that in making his second contract, the relator protested that
he had rights under the first better his position. If he. had
.any such rights and desired to maintain them, he should have

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

abstained from putting himself in a position where he voluntarily took advantage of the second opportunity to secure the
work. A party cannot avoid the legal consequences of his
acts by protesting at the time he does them that he does not
intend to subject himself to such consequences. In the case
of The Bank of the United States v. The Bank of T ashington,
6 Pet. 8, certain payments had been made to the first bank
ppon a decision by the court below, with notice that the payer
"intended to take the case to the Supreme Court of the United
States, and would expect the payee, the Bank of the United
States, to refund the money if that court should reverse the
decision of the court below, and hold that it was not due.
The court said: "No notice whatever could change the rights
of the parties so as to make the Bank of the United States
responsible to refund the money."
The whole case of this relator is covered by Gilbert v.
United States, 8 Wall. 358, in which this court, through Mr.
Justice Miller, said: "If the claimants had any objection to
the provisions of the contract they signed, they should have
refused to make it. Having made it and executed it, their
mouths are closed against any denial that it superseded all
previous arrangements." The claim that the purpose of the
mandamus which is here asked is not to determine the existence of a contract, or of rights arising thereunder, but only
to require the furnishing of evidence, simply changes the form
of the contention .without affecting its real merits. If, as
we have shown, there is no duty resting upon the Secretary
to enter into the contract here claimed, necessarily there can
be no duty on his part to put into the hands of the relator
evidence of the contract having been entered into.
Judgment affirmed.

