:NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HOLMES. 137
Opinion of the Court.

NORTHERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD
HOLMES.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE

No. 64. Argued November 9, 1894.-

COMPANY

v.

STATE OF WASHINGTON.

Decided November 12, 1894.

This court has no jurisdiction to review a judgment of the Supreme Court
of the State of Washington, denying a petition for a rehearing which
had been presented to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington touching a cause therein decided, and had been transferred to the
Supreme Court of the State under the provisions of the act of February
22, 1889, c. 180, 25 Stat. 676, admitting that State to the Union.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.1r. TF. 1. Andrews for the motion.
ir. A. IT Gai'Zand, and -Mr. James _McNaug]t opposing.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the court.
James Holmes recovered judgment in the District Court of
the Fourth Judicial District of the Territory of Washington
against the Northern Pacific Railroad Company; the railroad
company prosecuted an appeal therefrom to the Supreme
Court of the Territory, and the judgment was affirmed by
that court on February 2, 1888. Thereupon, and on the same
day, the Supreme Court of the Territory, on the application
of plaintiff in error, entered an order granting it leave to file
a petition for rehearing on or before July 17, lSSS, giving
sixty days after the determination of the petiion within which
to perfect proceedings upon appeal in the event that the petition should be denied, and staying all proceedings and withholding a remittitur pending the filing and determination of
the petition and for sixty days thereafter.
The State of Washington was admitted into the Union
November 11, 1889, and on March 8, 1S90, an order was entered by the Supreme Court of the State, reciting the affirm-

OCTOBER TERlM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ance of the judgment by the Supreme Court of the Territoiy
and the order of that court of February 2, 1888, and further,
that "the said petition having been filed within the time provided by the order of said court and having been pending
undetermined at the time of the admission of the State of
Washington and the organization of this, the Supreme Court
of the State, and this court having directed the defendant in
error to answer said petition, the said answer having been
-filed within the time provided by said order, and said petition
and answer having been taken under advisement by this court,
now, on this 8th day of March, A.D. 1890, the court being fully
advised in the premises, denies said petition for rehearing; to
which ruling and judgment, as well as the judgment of the
Supreme Court of said Territory affirming the judgment of
said District Court, plaintiff in error, by its counsel, excepts,
and said exception is allowed." And it was ordered "that a
writ of error to the Supreme Court of the United States to
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Washington, now a record of this court, and to the judgment,
order, and ruling of this court upon the petition for rehearing,
be and hereby is allowed." Supersedeas bond was given and
approved, a writ of error issued, and citation signed aid served.
It is well settled that if a motion or petition for rehearing
is made or presented in season and entertained by the court,
the time limited for a writ of error or appeal does not begin
to run until the motion or petition is disposed of. Until thefi
the judgment or decree does not take final effect for the purposes of the writ of error or appeal. Aspen -1Mining and
Smelting Co. v. Billings, 150 U. S. 31, 36; Voorhees v. -lVoye
Mf'g Co., 151 U. S. 135.
Under sections 22 and 23 of the act of Congress of February
22, 1889, c. 180, providing for the admission of the State of
Washington into the Union, (25 Stat. 676, 682, 683, printed
in the margin, 1) this petition, which was pending in the
1 "SEc.

22. That all cases of appeal or writ of error heretofore prosecuted

and now pending in the Supreme Court of the United States upon any record

from the Supreme Court of either of the Territories mentioned in this act,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD v. HOLMES.

13a

Opinion of the. Court.

Supreme Court of the Territory at the time of the admission
of the State, became a matter over which the state court had
or that may hereafter lawfully be prosecuted upon any record from either
of said courts, may be heard and determined by said Supreme Court of the
United States. And the mandate of execution or of further proceedings
shall be directed by the Supreme Court of the United States to the Circuit
or District Court hereby established within the State succeeding the Territory from which such record is or may be pending, or to the Supreme Court
And each of
of such State, as the nature of the case may require. .
the Circuit, District, and state Courts, herein named, shall, respectively,
be the successor of the Supreme Court of the Territory, as to all such cases
arising within the limits embraced within the jurisdiction of such courts
respectively with full power to proceed with the same, and award mesne or
final process therein; and that from all judgments and decrees of the
Supreme Court of either of the Territories mentioned in this act, in any
case arising within the limits of any of the proposed States prior to ad.
mission, the parties to such judgments shall have the same right to prosecute appeals and writs of error to the Supreme Court of the United States
as they shall have had by law prior to the admission of said State into the
Union.
"SEc. 23. That in respect to all cases, proceedings, and matters now
pending in the Supreme or District Courts of either of the Territories
mentioned in this act at the time of the admission into the Union of either
of the States mentioned in this act, and arising within the limits of any
such State, whereof the Circuit or District Courts by this act established
might have had juiisdiction under the laws of the United States had such
courts existed at the time of the commencement of such cases, the said
Circuit and District Courts, respectively, shall be the successors of said
Supreme and District Courts of said Territory; and in respect to all other
cases, proceedings, and matters pending in the Supreme or District Courts
of any of the Territories mentioned in this act at the time of the admission
of such Territory into the Union, arising within the limits ,f said proposed
State, the courts established by such State shall, respectively, be the successors of said Supreme and District Territorial Courts; and all the files,
records, indictments, and proceedings relating to any such cases, shall be
transferred to such Circuit, District, and state Courts, respectively, and the
same shall be proceeded with therein in due course of law; but no writ,
action, indictment, cause, or proceeding now pending, or that prior to the
admission of any of the States mentioned in this act, shall be pending, in
any territorial court in any of the Territories mentioned in this act, shall
abate by the admission of any such State into the Union, but the same
shall be transferred and proceeded with in the proper United States Circuit,
District or state court, as the case may be: Provided, however, That in all
civil actions, causes, and proceedings, in which the United States is not a
party, transfers shall not be made to the Circuit and DistrictCourts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction. The court took jurisdiction, and might, in its
exercise, have granted a rehearing and reversed the judgment,
but, upon consideration, both parties presenting their views,
saw fit to refuse the rehearing, and thereby to confirm the
action of the Supreme Court of the Territory in affirming the
judgment. It was then that the judgment took final effect
for the purposes of the writ of error, and plaintiff in error so
regarded it. But plaintiff in error could not take, the writ to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, for when that court
ceased to exist, a petition for rehearing was pending, which,
after the admission, could not be disposed of by that court,
and which plaintiff in error did not deem expedient to withdraw or abandon. And if the petition and the case could have
been transferred to the Circuit Court of the United States because plaintiff in error was a corporation created by the United
States, Glaspell v. Northern Pacift Railroad, 144 U. S. 211,
that could only have been done upon request, and no request
to that effect was preferred. On the contrary, plaintiff in
error elected to continue the jurisdiction of the cause in the
Supreme Court of the State, and as no Federal question was
involved and the judgment could not take effect so far as a
review of it on error was concerned until after the state court
acted, and only through that action, the writ of error cannot
be maintained.. Moreover, the judgment of the Supreme
Court of the Territory was rendered February 2, 1888, and
the writ of error was not brought until more than two years
thereafter, and, therefore, too late, unless the time of the
pendency of the petition in that court were deducted, which
is quite inadmissible in view of the fact that the petition remained pending notwithstanding the admission of the State
had terminated the existence of the court in which it was
originally filed. The result is that the writ of error must
be
.Dismissed.
United States, except upon written request of one of the parties to such
action or proceedingr tiled iu the proper court; and in the absence of such

rcquest such cases shall be proceeded with in the proper state courts."

