OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

DONAHUE v. LAKE SUPERIOR SHIP CANAL,
RAILWAY AND IRON COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 51.

Argued November 2, 5, 1894.-

Decided December 10, 1894.

This case is governed by the rule laid down in Lake Superior (JanaZ &c. Co.
v. Cunningham, ante, 354; but, as the land in controversy is near the
crossing of two lines that had received separate grants, it is further

subject to the rule that where two lines of road are aided by land grants
made by the same act, and the lines of those roads cross or intersect,
the lands within the " place" limits of both at the crossing or intersection do not pass to either company in preference to the other, no matter

which line may be first located, or built, but pass in equal undivided
moieties to each.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

X-r. Don X. Dickinson for plaintiff in error.
Xr. John P. Dillon, (with whom was Mlr. Daniel H. Ball
on the brief,) for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER delivered the opinion of the court.

The land in controversy in this case, as that in controversy
in the two prior cases, is a tract which was certified to the
State of Michigan on December 12, 1861, as part of the railroad grant, and afterwards, in 1871, again certified to the
State in part satisfaction of the canal grant. Donahue, the
plaintiff in error, entered upon the land in February, 1883,
and has ever since remained in possession. He entered with
the view of preempting, and made his first application under
the preemption laws on April 11, 1883. His application was
rejected by the local office, from which rejection he appealed
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and the
appeal is still pending in the department. His entry and
occupation were such as within the opinion in the Cunningham

DONAHUE v. LAKE SUPERIOR CANAL &c. CO. 387
Opinion of the Court.

case made him a bonafide claimant, and entitled to the benefit
of the confirmation granted by the closing sentence in section
three of the act of March 2, 1889.
The tract was nqt, however, within the "clear". six-miles
limits of the Ontonagon and State Line road, but was near
the crossing of the Ontonagon and the Marquette lines, and
within six miles of each, and was part of the 41,649.25 acres
certified on December 10, 1861, by the Land Office, in a
separate list to the State, which list was, as appears from the
statement of facts in the Cunningham case, included in the
release, made on January 31, 1868, by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company to the State, and that, on iMay 1,
1868, by the governor of the State to the United States. On
that ground it was held by the Circuit Court that the lands
at the time of the second certification to the State, to wit,
that in satisfaction of the canal grant, were wholly released
from the operation of the railroad grant, and were subject to
selection and certification for the benefit of the canal company,
and that such selection and certification operated to pass to
it a full title -a
title which could not be defeated by any
subsequent entry by the defendant for either homestead or
preemption. The case turns, therefore, on, the effect of the
releases to the State and by it to the 'United States.
By the original act of June 3, 1856, grants of land were
made in aid of the construction of two roads, one from Marquette to the state line, and one from Ontonagon to the state
line. These grants were bestowed by the State of Michigan, separately, on the Marquette and Ontonagon Companies.
The rule is that where two lines of road are aided by land
grants made by the same act, and the lines of those roads
cross or intersect,.the lands within the-" place" limits of both
at the crossing or intersection do not pass to either company
in preference to the other, no matter which line may be first
located, or road built, but pass in equal undivided moieties to
each. St. Paul & Sioux City Railroadv. W1rinona & St. Peter
Railroad, 112 U. S. 720; Sioux City & St. Paul Railroadv.
Chicago, Milwaukee &c. Railway, 117 U. S. 406. This rule was
evidently in the mind of Congress when it passed the con-

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

firmatory act of 1889, for in the last sentence of section four
there is a provision that a moiety forfeited on account of the
non-completion of one main or branch line should not inure to
the benefit of the completed line. When, therefore, the roads
from Marquette and Ontonagon respectively to the state line
were duly located, the lands within 'six miles of both at the
intersection became appropriated in equal undivided moieties
to aid in the construction of each. The fact of the consolidation of the Marquette and the Ontonagon Companies with the
Fond du Lac Company, and the further fact that the map of
definite location was prepared and filed by the consolidated
company, in no manner affect this rule of appropriation. The
lands were granted by the United States to tie State for the
accomplishment of specified purposes, and those purposes could
not be defeated by the State, or by any corporations, beneficiaries under the State.
It may be that the release of the Chicago and Northwestern
Railway Company, at that time the beneficial owner of both
the Marquette and the Ontonagon grants, operated to relinquish to the State o Michigan the title to all the lands within
such grants; but the only release authorized by the legislature of the State of Michigan was of the lands granted to aid
in the construction of the road from Marquette to the Wisconsin
state line. This authorized no giving up of the grant in aid
of the construction of the road from Ontonagon to the state
line, and as that held an undivided moiety of the lands at the
crossing, to that extent at least, it still remained after all the
releases. It may be a novel- condition which resulted, in
that it left the State and the United States joint owners, each
holding the title to an undivided moiety of this body of lands,
and it may be that further evidence may place the case in a
different attitude; but on the record as it. now stands, it
would seem that the plaintiff and the defendant were each the
owners of an undivided half of the land in controversy. Inasmuch, therefore, as the Circuit Court erred in adjudging to
the canal company the full title to the land, its judgment
must be
Reversed, and the case remandedfor a new trial.

