OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

ertson v. Cease, 97 U. S. 646, 649; Anderson v. Watt, 138
U. S. 694, 702; Timmons v. Elyton Land Co., 139 U. S. 378;
Denny v. Pironi,141 U. S. 121.
Reversed and ordered accordingly.

SWAN v. HILL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF ARTZONA.
No. 101.

Submitted December 4, 1894. -Decded

December 1T, 1894.

It was not error in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Arizona to dismiss an appeal when the appeal bond was without obligees, and not conditioned according to law.

Tmis was an action brought by John Hill, A. B. Wild, S. B.
Curtis and Samuel Summers, in the District Court of Cochise
County, against H. C. Herrick and others, including the Boston
Mining and Reduction Company, to establish plaintiff's alleged
prior right to the use of the waters of the San Pedro River
for irrigation purposes, and to restrain defendants in respect
thereof. The defendant company having, previously to the
commencement of the action, conveyed its property to Swan,
trustee, the latter was made a defendant, as were numerous
others averred to be interested in the use of the waters of the
river. The case was tried by the court, a jury being waived,
and resulted in certain findings of fact and a decree adjudging
priority of right to the waters of the river; first, to two of
the defendants; second, to plaintiffs; third, fourth and fifth,
to various named defendants, respectively; and that the
defendant company, and those claiming under it, or the trustee, were entitled to none of the waters for purposes of irrigation as against any of the parties until the other rights -as
established were satisfied. The cause was dismissed as against
many defendants without prejudice. Motion for new trial
was made and overruled, and Swan, trustee, appealed to the
Supreme Court of the Territory, and tendered a paper as and

SWAN v. HILL.
Statement of the Case.

for a bond which was approved and filed by the clerk of the
court, and was, omitting the signatures, as follows:
"In the District Court of the First Judicial District of the
Territory of Arizona in and for the County of Cochise.
"John Hill et al., Plaintiffs,

Undertaking for costs and

H. C. Herrick et al., Defendants.

damages on appeal.

"Whereas, Robert T. Swan, trustee, one of the defendants
in the above-entitled action, is about to appeal to the Supreme
Court of the Territory of Arizona from a judgment and decree
rendered against him in said action, in th6 said District Court,
and in favor of the plaintiff, to the effect that he, the said
defendatit, represents a corporation which, under its charter,
cannot take the waters of the San Pedro River for the irrigation and cultivation of its lands, and for costs of suit, taxed at
$ . , -and entered on the 21st day of October, A.D. 1889:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises, and of
such appeal, we, the undersigned residents of the county of
Cochise and Territory of Arizona, do hereby jointly and severally undertake and promise, on the part of the.appellant,
that the said appellant will pay all damages and costs which
may be awarded against him on the appeal, not exceeding
three hundred dollars, to which amount we acknowledge ourselves jointly and severally bound. Witness our hands and
seals this 16th day of November, 1889."
The appeal was docketed in the Supreme Court and continued to an adjourned term, when a motion to dismiss it, because,
among other reasons, the appeal bond did not comply with the
statute of Arizona in that behalf, was made.
Section 859 of the Revised Statutes of Arizona provided:
"The appellant or plaintiff in error, as the case may be, shall
execute a bond, with two or more good and sufficient sureties,
to be approved by the clerk, payable to the appellee or defendant in error, in a sum at least double the probable amount of
the costs of the suit of both the appellate court and the court
below, to be fixed by the clerk, conditioned that such appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

lant or plaintiff in error shall prosecute his appeal or writ of
error with effect, and shall pay all the costs which have accrued
in the court below, or which may accrue in the appellate court."
Rev. Stat. Arizona, 1887, c. 20.
The motion was sustained upon that ground, the appeal dismissed with costs, and Swan, trustee, brought the case to this
court.
-Mr.A. T. Britton and il[r. A. B. Browne for appellant.
No appearance for appellees.
THE OCriEF JUSTIcE : The alleged bond had no obligees, and
was not conditioned according to law. No application to file
a sufficient bond was made. The Supreme Court of Arizona
did not err in dismissing the appeal, and its judgment is

Aftirmed.

In re RICE, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.
No number. Submitted December 3, 1894.

Decided December 1, 1894.

A party is entitled to a writ of prohibition as a matter of right where it
appears that the court whose action is sought to be prohibited had
clearly no jurisdiction of the cause originally, or of some collateral
matter arising therein, and that he objected to the jurisdiction at the
outset, and has no other remedy.
But where there is another remedy, by appeal or otherwise, or where the
question of the jurisdiction of the court is doubtful or depends on facts
which are not made matter of record, or where the application is made
by a stranger, the granting or refusal of the writ is discretionary; and
it is not obligatory where the case has gone to sentence, and the want
of jurisdiction does not appear on the face of the proceedings.
A writ of man lamus cannot be issued to compel the court below to decide
a matter before it in a particular way, or to review its judical action
had in the exercise of legitimate jurisdiction:
A writ of mandamus cannot be used to perform the office of an appeal or
writ of error, even if no appeal or writ of error is given by law.
The fact that, in the administration of the assets of an insolvent corporation
in the custody of receivers, summary proceedings are resorted to, does

