OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

McCABE v. MATTHEWS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
No. 109. Argued and submitted December 13, 1894.-Decided January 7, 1895.
A decre--or the specific performance of a contract for the sale of real
estate does not-go as a matter of course, but is granted or withheld
according as equity and justice seem to demand in view of all the circumstances of the case.
A. contracted with B. in writing for the sale to him of a part interest in
lands in Florida then worth about $300 to be acquired by B. A. paid
B. one dollar, and after that did nothing to assist B. He waited nine
years after the contract was made, nearly as much after he had good
reason to believe that B. repudiated all liability under it, nearly five years
after B. had filed his deed of the properly in the public records, two
years after he received actual notice of that fact, and then, when the property had reached a value of $15,000, without any tender of money or
other consideration filed a bill for specific performance. Held, that the
long delay was such laches as forbade a court of equity to interfere.

ON March 1, 1889, the appellant, as plaintiff, filed in the
Circuit Court his bill to compel the specific performance of a
contract for the sale of real estate. The defendant demurred
to this bill, on the ground of a lack of equity, which demurrer,
on April 13, 1889, was sustained and the bill dismissed. 40
Fed. Rep. 338. From this decree the plaintiff appeled to
this court.
The facts as disclosed by the bill were that on February 9,
1880, Mrs. F. G. Montgomery, the owner of a tract of land,
containing 1635 acres, in Volusia County, State of Florida,
entered into a written contract for the conveyance thereof to
the defendant Matthews. This contract recited a consideration of one dollar, the receipt whereof was acknowledged, and
the further "consideration of a tract of land situated near
Orange Lake, containing five acres, the same to be planted
out with five hundred orange stumps and the stumps budded
with sweet buds and warranted to grow, and the party of the

McCABE v. MATTHEWS.
--

Statement of the Case.

second part is to fence th6 lands and keep the trees from
being damaged by stock of any kind," and provided that the
purchase should be at the refusal of the defendant for a period
of forty-five days. On February 10 the defendant executed a
written instrument, purporting to sell and assign to plaintiff
an undivided half interest in the agreement and the land;
and thereafter, on the same day, a further contract for the
subsequent conveyance of such half interest. This latter instrument was in the following language:
"Whereas Frances G. Montgomery, of St. John's County,
Florida, has, on the 9th day of February, 1880, agreed in
writing to grant and convey to me by deed all her estate and
interest in section 40, in T. 13 S., of iR. 32 east, and section
37, in T. 14 S., of R. 32 east, containing 1635 acres, in Volusia
County, Florida, subject to my refusal for forty-five days, for
the consideration named in her agreement:
"Now, therefore, in consideration of the sum of one dollar
to me in hand paid by William McCabe, of Tallahassee,
Florida, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, of the
further sum of One hundred dollars, for which I am to draw
upon said William McCabe with my deed to him, his heirs
and assigns, for a one-half undivided interest in said lands
attached, when I deliver to said Montgomery the deed to her
referred to in said agreement and she makes to me the deed of
said lands therein referred to in her said agreement, and of
the further sum of fifty dollars to be paid by said William
McCabe after the issue of the patent for said lands and the
completion of any proceedings founded on said patent, when
issued, deemed necessary, in connection with said patent, to
fortify the title to said lands and render it more marketable,
the expenses connected with which issue and said proceedings
connected therewith are to be borne solely by said McCabe,
I do hereby sell and assign to said William McCabe, his heirs
and assigns, a one-half undivided interest in said agreement of
said Montgomery and in said lands so to be conveyed by her
to me as aforesaid, and agree to make to the said McCabe, his
heirs and assigns, a deed for said interest in said lands and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

attach the same'to said draft on him as aforesaid within three
months from the date hereof, it being understood that the
expenses connected with the claim of one Stephen Snow to
said lands or a part of them and all other expenses shall be
borne equally by said, McCabe and myself as joint equal
owners of said lands so to be conveyed as aforesaid.
"In witness whereof I hereto set my hand -and seal, at
Jacksonville, Fla., this 10th day of February, A.D. 1880.
"(S'd)
J. 0. MATTHEWS. [SEAL.]"
Before the expiration of the forty-five days the defendant
notified Mrs. Montgomery of the acceptance of the contract.
The plaintiff after the execution of his contracts with the
defendant went to the county seat of Volusia County for the
purpose of investigating the claims of Stephen Snow, said to
be in possession of the lands, or a part thereof. In such
investigation he expended his time and money, and obtained
valuable information concerning the lands and the title
thereto, which he communicated to defendant, and shortly
thereafter returned to his home in Toronto, Canada, instructing the defendant to send the deed with the draft as provided
in the contract. There he attempted to open a correspondence
with defendant, but the last letter received from him was
dated June 20, 1880, and though plaintiff subsequently wrote
several times he received no answer, and finding that defendant so failed to answer, he caused, on December 23, 1880, his
contract to be recorded in the office of the clerk of the Circuit
Court of that county. Subsequently the defendant procured
a deed for the lands from Mrs. Montgomery, which deed
bears date July 1, 1882, and was recorded in the office of the
clerk of the Circuit Court of Volusia County on July 14,
1884, and in pursuance of such deed he entered into and has
continued in possession. In fraud of plaintiff's rights, and
with the purpose to defraud him, defendant kept the fact
of the deed and the possession. of the lands a secret from
plaintiff, who was not informed thereof until the spring of
the year 1887, when he received notice thereof from the clerk
of the Circuit Court for Volusia County. Plaintiff thereupon

McCABE v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

obtained an abstract of the title, whereon appeared the deed
from Mrs. Montgomery to defendant. As soon as it was
practicable thereafter for him to leave his business affairs,
and in February, 1888, he went to Florida to take steps for.
asserting his rights, and employed counsel, who at once
demanded a conveyance to plaintiff of the undivided half
interest, and at the same time notified the defendant of the
plaintiff's readiness to perform his obligations.
The bill also alleged that plaintiff had always been ready
and willing to comply with all the terms of the contract by
hirn stipulated to be kept and performed, but that the defendant wholly refused and still refuses to comply on his part,
and further, on information and belief, that defendant had
conveyed or attempted to convey, and mortgaged or attempted
to mortgage, certain unknown pieces or parcels of the tract.
There was no allegation in the bill of any tender of either of
the two sums of one hundred dollars and fifty dollars, stipulated by said contract to be paid by plaintiff to defendant,
nor was there any allegation of the present value of the
property, but after the entry of the decree of dismissal two
affidavits were filed by consent of the defendant, showing the
value of the tract as a whole at the date of the decree, April
13, 1889, to be over $15,000.
Mr. Ienry Wise Garnett for appellant.
Xr.H. Bisbee for appellee submitted on his brief.
MR. JusTino. BaEwxa, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
A decree for the specific performance of a contract for the
sale of real estate does not go as a matter of course, but is
granted or withheld according as equity and justice seem to
demand in view of all the circumstances of the case. Pratt
v. Carroll, 8 Cranch, 471; Holt v. Rogers, 8 Pet. 420; Willard
v. Tayoe, 8 Wall. 557; Hennessy v. Woolworth, 128 UI. S. 438.
Tested by this rule, the decision of the Circuit Court was

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

unquestionably correct. There is no averment in the bill of a
tender of any money by plaintiff to defendant, and while it
may be that the stipulations in the contract of conveyance by
defendant and payment by plaintiff are independent covenants, (Loud v. Pomona Land and Tater Company, 153 IT. S.
564,) and that the obligation of conveyance precedes that of
payment, yet the omission of a tender is significant upon the
question of how much the plaintiff suffers by reason of a
refusal to decree specific performance. The only sum which
defendant has received is one dollar, and that is the only
definite amount which it is shown the plaintiff has expended.
It is true the bill alleges that after the contract he went to
the county seat of Volusia County, and expended time and
money in obtaining information concerning the title, but how
much time and money is not disclosed. In other words, the
plaintiff, having invested a dollar in this speculation, waits
nine years before he comes into a court of equity to ask a
decree for the performance of his contract of purchase.
On the other hand, by the agreement between the defendant and Mrs. Montgomery, he was to convey to her a tract of
land containing five acres, which he was to plant with five
hundred orange stumps, the stumps budded with sweet buds,
and guaranteed to grow; to fence the land and keep the trees
from being damaged by stock of any kind. By the first
instrument executed by the defendant, to wit, the assignment
of a half interest in the agreement, the plaintiff was doubtless
under obligation to assume the burden of half the consideration to be paid by defendant to Mrs. Montgomery. The
second instrument, the contract to convey, upon which this
suit is brought, executed the same day, was apparently in
substitution of the assignment, and perhaps made the payment of the $150 the equivalent of such half of the consideration. As the defendant obtained a deed from Mrs. Montgomery, it is to be presumed that he fully complied with the
terms of his contract with her; that he conveyed the five
acres and performed all the work required thereon. Such
was his investment over against the plaintiff's one dollar.
While plaintiff was not informed by defendant that the

XcCABE v. MATTHEWS.
Opinion of the Court.

latter repudiated the contract, he had the very same year
good reason to believe that such was the fact, because his
letters to defendant were unanswered; indeed, his suspicions
were aroused, and in consequence thereof he caused. his contract to be recorded before the close of the year 1880. The
deed to defendant was duly recorded in July, 1884, and the
plaintiff had actual knowledge of this in the spring of 1887.
Notwithstanding all this he waits until March 1, 1889, before
filing his bill, and, upon the entry of a decree against him, on
April 13, 1889, he waits until March 9, 1891, before taking
his appeal to this court.
Nowhere on the face of the bill is the value 'of the property
disclosed; nothing to show a value sufficient to give jurisdiction to the Circuit Court, but by the affidavits filed after the
decree of dismissal it 'appears that the entire property was
worth at the time of the decree (which was less than a month
and a halt after the filing of the bill) the sum of $15,000.
Great has been the change in the value of the premises! The
half interest was worth at the date of his contract, as shown
by the stipulated price, but $150, while at the time he brings
his suit it is worth $7500. It does not appear that he has
done anything towards bringing about such increase of value,
and no excuse is shown for his ignorance of the exact condition of affairs, or his inattention to the matter, except his residence in a remote province.
So that we have presented the case of one who, investing a
dollar in a proposed purchase of lands, and doing nothing to
assist his vendor in furnishing the property or performing the
work necessary to be furnished and performed by such vendor
to acquire the title to "the lands, waits nine years after his
contract has been entered into, nearly nine years after he has
good reason to believe that such vendor repudiates all liability
under the contract, nearly five years after notice has been
given by such vendor of his acquisition of the title by filing
the deed in the public records, two years after he receives
actual notice of that fact, and then without the tender of any
money, or other consideration, appeals to a court of equity to
compel such vendor to deed to him an interest in land worth

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

at the time of his coptract only $150, and now $7500. It
seems to us to be a case of a purely speculative contract on
the part of the plaintiff; doing nothing himself, he waits
many years to see what the outcome of the purchase by
defendant shall be. If such purchase proves a profitable
investment, he will demand his share; if unprofitable, he will
let it alone. Under those circumstances the long delay is
such laches as forbids a court of equity to interfere. "The
decision of the Circuit Court is right, and it is
-Affirmed.

EVANSVILLE BANK v. GERMAN-AMERICAN
BANK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 85. Argued November 20, 1894. -Decided

January 7, 1695.

In June, 1887, the Fidelity Bank of Cincinnati had a contract with the
German-American Bank of Peoria "to credit sight items on any
point in the United States east of Illinois, where there are banks, at
par; and to make collections on same points" and "to credit the same at
par when collected." At that time there also existed an arrangement
between the Fidelity Bank and the Bank of Evansville in Indiana for
mutual and reciprocal collection business. On the 14th of that month
the German-American Bank sent to the Fidelity Bank for collection a
sight draft on a firm in Terre Haute, endorsed "for collection." On
the 16th this draft was forwarded to the Evansville Bank for collection.
On the 18th the draft was sent by the Evansville Bank to a bank in
Terre Haute for collection, and was collected by the latter bank on the
20th of June. On the morning of the 21st, before banking hours, the
Evansville Bank received news of the collection, and after crediting
the Fidelity Bank with it, as of June 20th, notified the Fidelity Bank
of the payment and of the entry to credit by a letter which was received
there on the 22d. On the 20th the Fidelity Bank was, and for ten days
before it had been, insolvent. It was not open for business after the
20th, and on the 27th passed into the hands of a receiver. Held, th at the
Fidelity Bank, though it acquired the mere legal title to the draft, never
became its equitable owner; that the notice on the draft that it was for
collection bound all parties into whose hands it came; that the Evans-

