PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Syllabus.

rule that equity in the exercise of its inherent power to do
justice between parties, will, when justice demands it, i~fuse
relief, even if the time elapsed without suit is less thaj that
prescribed by the -statute of limitations. Hlarwood v. Railroad Co., 17 Wall. 78; Twin Lick Oil Go. v. Mar'ury, 91
U. S. 587, 592; Hayward v. Natlonal Bank, 96 U. S. 611,
616; Richards v. Mackall, 124 U. S. 183, 187; Hammond v.
Hopkin.s, 143 U. S. 22-, 250. As observed in Halstead v.
G nnazn, 152 U. S. 412, 416, "the length of time during
which the party neglects the assertion of his rights, which
must pass in order to show laches, varies with the peculiar
circumstances of each case, and is not, like the matter of
limitations, subject to an arbitrary rule. It is an equitable
defence, controlled by equitable considerations, and the lapse
of time must be so great, and the relations of the defendant
to the rights such, that it would be inequitable to permit the
plaintiff to now assert them."
The decree is reversed at the costs of the complainant, and
the cause reminded with directions to dismiss the bill without
prejudice to an action at law.
Reversed.

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME JUDIcrAL COURT OF THE COMfONWEALTH
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
No. 406.

Argued April 5, 6, 1894.-

Decided December 10, 1894.

The act of August 2, 1886, c. 840, 24 Stat. 209, does -not give authority to
those who pay the taxes prescribed by it, to engage in the manufacture
or sale of oleomargarine in any State which lawfully forbids such manufacture or sale, or to disregard any regulations which a State may lawfully prescribe in reference to that article; and that act was not intended
to be, and is not, a regulation of commerce among the States.
The statute of Massachusetts of March 10, 1891, c. 58, " to prevent deception in the manufacture and sale of imitation butter," in its application
to the sales of oleomargarine artificially colored so as to cause it to look
like yellow butter and brought into Massachusetts, is not in conflict with

. OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.
the clause of the Constitution of the United States investing Congress
with power to regulate commerce among the several States.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 124, is restrained in its application to the case
there actually presented for determination, and held not to justify the
broad contention that a State is powerless to prevent the sale of articles
of food manufactured in or brought from another State, and subjects of
traffic or commerce, if their sale may cheat the people into purchasing
something they do not intend to buy, and which is wholly different from
what its condition and appearance import.
The judiciary of the United States should not strike down a legislative
enactment of a State, especially if it has direct connection with the social
order, the health and the morals of its people, unless such legislation
plainly and palpably violates some right granted or secured by the National Constitution, or encroaches upon the authority delegated to the
United States for the attainment of objects of national concern.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

_AIr. Robert . .Morse, (with whom were Mr. Albert I.
Yeeder and .A&. Williamrn J. Oampbell on the-brief,) for plaintiff
in error.
Xr. Albert

.Pillsbury for defendant in error.

M-n. JUsrIcE IAItLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Plumley, the plaintiff in error, was convicted in the AMunicipal Court of Boston upon the charge of having sold in that
city on the 6th day of October, 1891, in violation of the law of
Massachusetts, a certain article, product and compound kn9 wn
as oleomargarine, inade partly of fats, oils and oleaginous substances and compounds thereof, not produced from unadulterated milk or cream but manufactured in imitation of yellow
butter produced froni pure unadulterated milk and cream.
The prosecution was based upon a statute of that Commonwealth approved March 10, 1891, Mass. Stats. 1891, c. 58, p.
695, entitled "An act to prevent deception in the manufacture
and sale of imitation butter." By that statute it is provided
as follows:
"SERiox 1. No person by himself or his agents or servants, shall render or manufacture, sell, offer for sale, expose
for sale -or have in his possession with intent to sell, any article, product or compound made wholly or partly out of any

PLUMLEY v. MOSSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

fat, oil or oleaginous substance or compound thereof, not prodaced from unadulterated milk or cream from the same,
which shall be in imitation of yellow butter produced from
pure unadulterated milk or cream of the same: provided,
That nothing in this act shall be construed to prohibit the
manufacture or sale of oleomargarine in a separate and distinct form, and in such manner as will advise the consumer
of its real character, free from coloration or ingredient that
causes it to look like butter.
" SECTION 2. Whoever violates any of the provisions of section one of this act shall be punished by a fine of not less than
one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars, or by imprisonment in the house of correction for a term not exceedihg
one year.
" SECTioN 3. Inspectors of milk shall institute complaints
for the violation of the provisions of this act when they have
reasonable cause to believe that any of its provisions have
been violated; and on the information of any person who lays
before them satisfactory evidence by which to sustain such
complaint, said inspectors may enter all places where butter
or imitations thereof are stored or kept for sale, and shall also
take specimens of suspected butter and imitations thereof and
cause them to be analyzed or otherwise satisfactorily tested,
the result of which analysis or test they shall record and
preserve as evidence; and a certificate of such result sworn to
by the analyzer, shall be admitted in evidence in all prosecutions under this act. The expense of such analysis or test,
not exceeding twenty dollars in any one case, may be included
in the costs of such prosecutions. Whoever hinders, obstructs,
or in any way interferes with any inspector in the performance of his duty shall be punished by a fine of fifty dollars for
the first offence, and one hundred dollars for each subsequent
offence.
"SEcxrioN 4. This act shall not be construed to impair or
prevent the prosecution and punishment of any violation of
laws existing at the time of its passage and committed prior to
its taking effect."
The defendant was found guilty of the offence charged.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

The court adjudged that he pay a fine of one hundred dollars
and on default thereof stand committed in the common jail
of Suffolk County until the fine was paid. Such default having occurred, a writ of commitment was issued under which
he was taken for the purpose of imprisoning him in jail until
the fine was paid.
He sued out a writ of habeas corpus from the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts upon the ground that he was
restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution and
laws of the United States.
In his petition for the writ the accused set forth, in substance, that at the time and place charged he offered for sale
and sold one package containing ten pounds of oleomargarine, manufactured from pure animal fats or substances and
designed to take the place of butter produced from pure, unadulterated milk or cream. He also alleged that the oleomargarine in question was manufactured by a firm of which
he was an agent, and the members of which were citizens and
residents of Illinois engaged at the city of Chicago in the business of manufacturing that article and shipping it to various
cities, towns, and places in Illinois and in other States and
there selling the same; and that all oleomargarine manufactured by that firm and by other leading manufacturers was
a wholesome, nutritious, palatable article of food, in no way
deleterious to the public health or welfare.
The petitioner claimed that the statute of Masachusetts
was repugnant to the clause of the Constitution providing
that the Congress shall have power to regulate commerce
among the several States; to the clause declaring that the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and
immunities of citzens in the several States; to the clause providing that no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States, nor deprive any person of life, liberty, or propefty without due process of law, nor deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws; to the
clause declaring that private property shall not be taken for
public purposes; and to the act of Congress of August 2, 1886,

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

c.840, entitled "An act defining butter, also imposing a tax
upon and regulating the manufacture, sale, importation, and
24 Stat. 209; Rev. Stat.
exportation of oleomargarine."
Suppl. 2d ed. 505.
The case was heard before one of the Justices of that court
and was reported to the full court on the petition and on the
following facts and offer of proof:
"The proceedings are as alleged in the petition. The article sold by the petitioner was the article the sale of which
is forbidden by chapter 58 of the acts of 1891. Oleomargarine
has naturally a light-yellowish color, but the article sold by the
petitioner was artificially colored.in imitation of yellow butter.
"The allegations concerning the -quality or wholesome
character of the article sold ae not admitted. The petitioner
offers to prove the allegations of the petition in respect to the
character and qualities of the article, and the Commonwealth
objects to such proofs as immaterial; and the petitioner is to
have the benefit of his offer if found material.
"It is admitted that the article sold was sent by the manu-.
facturers thereof in the State of Illinois to the petitioner,
their agent in Massachusetts, and was sold by him in the
original package, and that in respect to the article sold the
importers and the petitioners had complied, with all the requirements of the act of Congress regulating the sale of oleomargarine, and it was marked and distinguished by all the
marks, words, and stamps required of oleomargarine by the
laws of this Commonwealth."
It Was adjudged tnat the prisoner 'be remanded to the custody of the keeper of the common jail to be therein confined,
the opinion of that court being that the statute of Massachusetts .vas not in violation of the Constitution or laws of the
United States, and, consequently, that the petitioner 'was not
illegally restrained of his liberty. 156 Mass. 236. The present writ of error brings up that judgment for review.
The learned counsel for the appellant states that Congress
in the act of August 2, 1886, has legislated fully on the subject of oleomargarine. This may be true so far as the purposes of that act are concerned. But there is no ground to
vOL. CLV-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

suppose that Congress intended in that enactment to interfere
with the exercise by the States of any authority they could
rightfully exercise over the sale within their respective limits
of the article defined as oleomargarine. The statute imposed
certain special taxes upon manufactures of oleomargarine, as
well as upon wholesale and retail dealers in that compound.
And it is expressly declared (ยง 3) that sections 3232 to 3241
inclusive and section 3243 of the Revised Statutes, Title Internal Revenue, "are, so far as applicable, made to extend to
and include and apply to the special taxes" so imposed, "and
to the persons upon whom they are imposed." Section 3243
of the Revised Statutes is in these words: "The payment of
any tax imposed by the internal revenue laws for carrying on
any trade or business shall not be held to exempt any person
from any penalty or punishment provided by the laws of any
State for carrying on the same within such State, or in any
manner to authorize the commencement or continuance of
such trade or business contrary to the laws of such State or
in places prohibited by municipal law; nor shall the payment
of any such tax be held to prohibit any State from placing a
duty or tax on the same trade or business, for State or other
purposes." It is manifest that this section was incorporated
into the act of August 2, 1886, to make it clear that Congress
had no purpose to restrict the power of the States over the
subject of the manufacture and sale of oleomargarine within
their respective limits. The taxes prescribed by that act were
imposed for national purposes, and their imposition did not
give authority to those who paid them to engage in the manufacture or sale of oleomargarine in any State which lawfully
forbade such manufacture or sale, or to disregard any regulations which a State might lawfully prescribe in reference to
that article. License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462, 474; Pervear
v. Commonwealth, 5 Wall. 475; U-nited States v. Dewitt, 9
Wall. 41.
Nor was the act of Congress relating to oleomargarine
intended as a regulation of commerce among the States. Its
provisions do not have special application to the transfer of
oleomargarine from one State of the Union to another. They

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

relieve the manufacturer or seller, if he conforms to the regulations prescribed by Congress or by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue under the authority conferred upon him in
that regard, from penalty or punishment so far as the general
government is concerned, but they do not interfere with the
exercise by the States of any authority they possess of preventing deception or fraud in the sales of property within
their respective limits.
The vital question in this case is, therefore, unaffected by
the act of Congress or by any regulations that have been
established in execution of its provisions. That question is,
whether, as contended by the petitioner, the statute under
examination in its application to sales of oleomargarine
brought into Massachusetts from other States is in conflict
with the clause of the Constitution of the United States investing Congress with power to regulate commerce among the
several States. This is the only question the learned counsel
for the petitioner urges upon our attention, and, in view of the
decision in Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S.678, is the only
one that we need consider.
It will be observed that the statute of Massachusetts which
is alleged to be repugnant to the commerce clause of the Constitution does not prohibit the manufacture or sale of all oleomargarine, but only such as is colored in imitation of yellow
butter produced from pure unadulterated milk or cream of
such milk. If free from coloration or ingredient that "causes
it to look like butter," the right to sell it "in a separate and
distinct form, and in such manner as will advise the consumer
of its real character," is neither restricted nor prohibited. It
appears, in this case, that oleomargarine, in its natural condition, is of "a light-yellowish color," and that the article sold
by the accused was artificially colored "in imitation of yellow
butter." 'Now, the real object of coloring oleomargarine so
as to make it look like genuine butter is that it may appear
to be what it is not, and thus induce unwary purchasers, who
do not closely scrutinize the label upon the package in which
it is contained, to buy it as and for butter produced from
unadulterated milk or cream from such milk. The suggestion

OCTOBER TERN, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that oleomargarine is artificially colored so as to render it
more palatable and attractive can only mean that customers
are deluded, by such coloration, into believing that they are
getting genuine butter. If any one thinks that oleomargarine,
not artificially colored so as to cause it to look like butter, is
as palatable or as wholesome for purposes of food as pure butter, he is, as already observed, at liberty under the statute of
Massachusetts to manufacture it in that State or to sell it
there in such manner as to inform the customer of its real
character. He is only forbidden to practise, in such matters,
a fraud upon the general public. The statute seeks to suppress false pretences and to promote fair dealing in the sale of
an article of food. It compels the sale of oleomargarine for
what it really is, by preventing its sale for what it is not. Can
it be that the Constitution of the United States secures to any
one the privilege of manufacturing and selling an article of
food in such manner as to induce the mass of people to believe
that they are buying something which, in fact, is wholly different from that which is offered for sale? Does the freedom
of commerce among the States demand a recognition of the
right to practice a deception upon the public in the sale of
any articles, even those that may have become the subject of
trade in different parts of the country? '
Several cases in this court were cited in argument to support
the contention that the grant of power to Congress to regulate interstate commerce extended to such legislation as that
enacted by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Let us see
whether those cases announce any principle that compels this
court to adjudge that the States have surrendered to the general government the power to prevent fraud in the sales of
property.
.Railroad Co. v. H.?en, 95 U. S. 465, 473, involved the validity
of a statute of Missouri which was so framed as to prevent the
bringing into that State of any Texan, Mexican, or Indian
cattle, between March 1 and December 1 in any year, whether
free from disease or not, or whether their coming into the
State would be injurious to its inhabitants or not. If they
were brought into Missouri for the purpose of carrying them

PLUMLEY v. MISSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

thr6ugh that State without unloading them, such burdens and
restrictions were imposed as amounted to an exclusion from
its limits of any cattle such as those described in the statute.
This court held that the Missouri statute was neither a quarantine nor an inspection law; that its object and effect was to
meet at the borders of Missouri a large and common subject
ol commerce and prohibit its crossing the state line during
the iarger part of each year, and ,to obstruct interstate commerce and discriminate between the property of citizens of one
State and that of citizens of other States. The statute was,
consequently, adjudged to be unconstitutional.
.innesoz v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 322, involved the
validity of a statute of Minnesota which, by its necessary
operation, excliLded from the markets of that State all fresh
beef, veal, mutton, lamb, or pork, in whatever form, and
although entirely sound, healthy, and fit for human food,
taken from animals slaughtered in other States; and which
directly tended to restrict the slaughtering of animals, whose
meat was to be sold in Minnesota, to those engaged in such
business in that State. The court said: "If the object of the
statute had been to deny altogether to the citizens of other
States the privilege of selling, within the limits of Minnesota,
for human food, any fresh beef, veal, mutton, lamb, or -pork,
from animals slaughtered outside of that State, and to compel the" people of Minnesota, wishing to buy such meats,
either to purchase those taken from animals inspected and
slaughtered in the State, or to incur the cost of purchasing
them, when desired for their own domestic use, at points beyond the State, that object is attained by the act in question.
Our duty to maintain the Constitution will not permit us to
shut our eyes to these obvious and necessary results of the
Minnesota statute. If this legislation does not make snch
discrimination, against the products and business of other
States in favor of the products and business of Minnesota as
interferes with and burdens commerce among the several
States, it would be difficult to enact legislation that would
have that result."
Brimmer v. Rebman, 138 U. S. 78, 82, involved the validity

OCTOBER TERI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

of a statute of Virginia relating to the sale, in that Commonwealth, of unwholesome meat. The statute was held to be
unconstitutional as prohibiting, by its necessary operation, the
sale in Virginia of beef, veal, or mutton, although entirely
wholesome, if from animals slaughtered one hundred miles or
over from the place of sale. The court said: "Undoubtedly,
a State may establish regulations for the protection of its
people against the sale of unwholesome meats, provided such
regulations do not conflict with the powers conferred by the
Constitution upon Congress, or infringe rights granted or
secured by that instrument. But it may not, under the guise
of exerting its police powers, or of enacting inspection laws,
make discriminations against the products and industries of
some of the States in favor of the products and industries of
its own or of other States. The owner of the meats here
in question, although they were from animals slaughtered in
Illinois, had the right, under the Constitution, to compete in
the markets of Virginia upon terms of equality with the
owners of like meats from animals slaughtered in Virginia
or elsewhere within one hundred miles from the place of sale.
Any local regulation which, in terms or by its necessary operation, denies this equality in the markets of the State is, when
applied to the people and products or industries of other
States, a direct burden upon commerce among the States,
and, therefore, void." This case was followed in Voiqht v.
Wp'ight, 141 U. S. 62, 66, where this court held a statute of
Virginia, relating to the inspection of flour brought into that
Commonwealth, to be unconstitutional, because it required
the inspection of flour from other States, when no such inspection was required of flour manufactured in Virginia.
So in lMalling v. Michigan, 116 U. S. 446, 459, which involved the validity of a statute of Michigan imposing a tax
upon persons not residing or having their principal place of
business within the State, but engaged there in the business
of selling of soliciting the sale of intoxicating liquors to be
shipped into the State from places without it, but not imposing a similar tax upon persons selling or soliciting the sale of
intoxicating liquors manufactured in that State. The statute

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

was held to be in restraint of interstate commerce, and therefore void. It having been suggested that the tax imposed
was an exercise of the police power of the State for the discouragement of the use of intoxicating liquors, and the preservation of the health and morals of the people, this court
said: "This would be a perfect justification of the act if it
did not discriminate against the citizens and products of other
States in a matter of commerce among the States, and thus
usurp one of the prerogatives of the national legislature."
It is obvious that none of the above cases presented the
question now before us. Each of them involved the question
whether one State could burden interstate commerce by
means of discriminations enforced for the benefit of its own
products and industries at the expense of the products and
industries of other States. It did not become material in any
of them to inquire, nor did this court inquire, whether a State,
in the exercise of its police powers, may protect the public
against the deception and fraud that would be involved
in the sale within its limits for purposes of food of a compound that had been so prepared as to make it appear to be
what it was not. While in each -of those cases it was held
that the reserived police powers of the States could not control the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution nor the
powers of the government it created, (New Orleans Gas Co.
v. Louisiaa,Light Co., 115 U. S. 650,) it was distinctly stated
that the grant to Congress of authority to regulate foreign
and interstate commerce did not involve a surrender by the
States of their police powers. If the statute of Massachusetts had been so framed as to be applicable only to oleomargarine manufactured in other States, and which had been
made in imitation of pure butter, the case would have been
wholly different. But we have seen that Jt is not of that
character, but is aimed at all oleomargarine artificially colored
so as to cause it to look like genuine butter and offered for
sale in Massachusetts.
In none of the above cases is there to be found a suggestion
or intimation that the Constitution of the United States took
from the States the power of preventing deception and fraud

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

in the sale, within their respective limits, of articles in whatever State manufactured, or that that instrument secured to
any one the privilege of committing a wrong against society.
Referring to the general body of the law, from whatever
source derived, existing in each State of the Union and regulating the rights and duties of all.within its jurisdiction, even
those engaged in interstate commerce, this court, speaking by
Mr. Justice M atthews, said in Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.
465, 476, that "it was in contemplation of the continued
existence of this separate system of law in each State that, the
Constitution of the United States was framed and ordained
with huch legislative powers as are therein grantea expressly
or by reasonable implication." It was, consequently, held in
that case that a State may enact laws and prescribe regulations, applicable to carriers engaged in interstate and foreign
commerce, to insure the safety of persons careied by them
as well as the safety of persons and things liable to be
affected by their acts while they were within the territorial jurisdiction of the State. So, in Dent v. West Virginia,
129 U. S. 114, 122, which involved the validity of a state
enactment making it a public offence for any one to practise medicine in West Virginia without complying with
certain prescribed conditions, this court, speaking by 31r.
Justice Field, said: "The power of the State to provide
for the general welfare of its people authorizes it to prescribe all such regulations as, in its judgment, will secure
or tend to secure them against the consequences of ignorance
and incapacity as well as deception and fraud."
If there be any subject over which it would seem the States
ought to have plenary control, and the power to legislate in
respect to which it ought not to be supposed was intended
to be surrendered to the general government, it is the protection of the people against fraud and deception in the-sale of
food products. Such legislation may, indeed, indirectly or incidentally affect trade in such products transported from one
State to another State. But that circumstance does not show
that laws of the character alluded to are inconsistent with the
power of Congress to regulate commerce among tho States.

PLUMLEY v. MASSA'CHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

F0r, as said by this court in Sherlocki v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99,
103: "In conferring upon Congress the regulation of commerce, it was never intended to cut the States off from legislating on all subjects relating to the health, life, and safety
of their citizens, though the legislation might indirectly affect
the commerce of the country. Legislation, in a great variety
of ways, may affect commerce and persons engaged in it
without constituting a regulation of it within the meaning of
the Constitution

...

-.

And it may be said generally, that

the.legislation of a State, not directed against commerce or
any of its regulations, but relating to the rights, duties, and
liabilities of citizens, and only directly and remotely affecting
the operations of commerce, is of obligatory force upon citizens within its territorial jurisdiction, whether on land or
water, or engaged in commerce, foreign or interstate, or in
any other pursuit."
But the case most relied on by the petitioner to support the
proposition that oleomargarine, being a recognized article -of
commerce, may be introduced into a State and there sold
in original packages, without any restriction being imposed
by the State upon such sale, is .Leisy Y. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100.
The majority of the court in that case held that ardent
spirits, distilled liquors, ale and beer, were subjects of exchange, barter, and traffic, and, being articles of commerce,
their sale while in the original packages in which they are
carried from one State to another State, could not without
the assent of Congress be forbidden by the latter State ; that
the parties in that case, who took beer from Illinois into
Iowa, had the right, under the Constitution of the United
States, to sell it in Iowa in such original packages, any statdte
of that State to the contrary notwithstanding; and that Iowa
had no control over such beer. until the original packages
were -broken and the beer in them became mingled in the
common mass of property within its limits.. "Up to that
point of time," the court said, "we hold that in the absence
of Congressional permission to do so, the State had no*power
to interfere by seizure, or any other action in prohibition of

OCTOBER TER.f, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

importation and sale by the foreign or non-resident importer."
p. 124.
It is sufficient to say of Leisy v. Iardin that it did not in
form or in substance present the particular question now
under consideration. The article which the majority of the
court in that case held could be sold in Iowa in 'original
packages, the statute of that State to the contrary notwithstanding, was beer manufactured in Illinois and shipped to
the former State to be there sold in such packages. So far
as the record disclosed, and so far as the contentions of the
parties were concerned, the article there in question was what
it appeared to be, namely, genuine beer, and not a liquid or
drink colored artificially so as to cause it to look like beer.
The language we have quoted from leisy v. Jlardin must be
restrained in its application to the case actually presented for
determination, and does not justify the broad contention that
a State is powerless to prevent the sale of articles manufactured in or brought from another State, and subjects of
traffic and commerce, if their sale may cheat the people into
purchasing something they do not intend to buy and which
is wholly different -from what its. condition and appearance
import. At the term succeeding the decision in leisy v.
Hardin,this court in 1?ahrer's Case, 140 U. S.545, 546, sustained the validity of the act of Congress of August 8, 1890,
c. 728, 26 Stat. 313, known as the Wilson act, and in the light
of the decision in Leisy v. ilardin,said, by the Chief Justice,
that "the power of the State to impose restraints and burdens
upon persons and property in conservation and promotion of
the public health, good order, and prosperity, is a power
originally and alvays belonging to the States, not surrendered by them to the general government nor directly
restrained by the Constitution of the United States, and
essentially exclusive," and that "it is not to be doubted
that the power to make the ordinary regulations of police
remains with the individual States, and cannot be assumed
by the national government."
The judgment of the court below is supported b;- many
well-considered cases.

PLUM'LEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

In People v. Arenburg, 105 IN. Y. 123, 129, 130, the precise
question now before us came before the Court of Appeals of
INew York. That court, after referring to its decision in
People v. f-arx, 99 N. Y. 377, 385, adjudging a statute of
New York relating to the manufacture of oleomargarine to
be in violation of the fundamental right and privilege of every
American citizen to adopt and follow such lawful industrial
pursuit, not injurious to the community, as he may see fit,
said: "Assuming, as is claimed, that butter made from animal
fat or oil is as wholesome, nutritious, and suitable for food as
dairy butter; that it is composed of the same elements and is
substantially the same article, except as regards its origin, and
that it is cheaper, and that it would be a violation of the constitutional rights and liberties of the people to prohibit them
from manufacturing or dealing in it, for the mere purpose of
protecting the producers of dairy butter against competition,
yet it cannot be claimed that the producers of butter, made
from animal fat, or oils, have any constitutional right to resort
to devices for the purpose of making their product resemble
in appearance the more expensive article known as dairy
butter, or that it is beyond the power of the legislature to
enact such laws as they may deem necessary to pr.vent
the simulated article being put upon the market in such
a form and manner as to be calculated to deceive." "If it
possesses," continued the court, "the merits which are claimed
for it, and is innocuous, those making and dealing in it should
be protected in the enjoyment of liberty in those respects,
but they may legally be required to sell it for and as what it
actually is and upon its own merits, and are not entitled to the
benefit of any additional market value which may be imparted to it by resorting to artificial means to make it resemble dairy butter in appearance. It may be butter, but it is
not butter made from cream, and the difference in cost or
market value, if no other, would make it a fraud to pass off
one article for the other." Again: "The statutory prohibition
is aimed at a designed and intentional imitation of dairy
butter, in manufaoturing the new product, and not at a
resemblance in qualities inherent in the articles themselves

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

and common to both." The court, therefore, held that artificial coloring of oleomargarine for the mere purpose of
making it resemble dairy butter came within the statutory
prohibition against' imitation, and "that such prohibition is
within the power of the legislature, and rests upon the same
principle which would sustain a prohibition of coloring winter
dairy butter for the purpose of enhancing its market price by
making it resemble summer dairy butter, should the legislature
deem such a.prohibition necessary or expedient."
In .XAAllister v. State, 72 Maryland, 390, the Court of Appeals of Maryland sustained the validity of a statute of that
State declaringr it unlawful to offer 'for sale as an article of
food an article in imitation and semblance of natural butter.
The object of the statute being to protect purchasers against
fraud and deception, the power of the legislature, the court
said, following the previous decision in Pierce v. State, 63
Maryland, 596, was too plain to be questioned.
In lfaterbury v. Newton, 21 Vroom, (50 N. J. Law,) 534,
537, the New Jersey Supreme Court sustained the validity of
an act that forbade the sale of oleomargarine colored with
annotto. In response to the suggestion that oleomargarine
colored with annotto was a wholesome article of food, the
sale of which could not be prohibited, the court said: "If the
sole basis for this statute were the protection of the public
health, this objection would be pertinent, and might require
-us to consider the delicate questions, whether and how far the
judiciary can pass upon the adaptability of the means which
the legislature has proposed for the accomplishment of its
legitimate ends. But, as already intimated, this provision is
not aimed at the protection of the public health. Its object
is to secure to dairymen and to the public at large a fuller
and fairer enjoyment of their property, by excluding from the
market a commodity prepared with a view to deceive those
purchasing it. It is not pretended that annotto has any other
function in the manufacture of oleomargarine than to make it
a counterfeit of butter, which is more generally esteemed, and
commands a higher price. That the legislature may repress
such counterfeits does not admit, I think, of substantial ques-

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

tion. Laws of like character have of late years been frequently assailed before the courts, but always without success." It was further held by the court that the statute of
New Jersey was.not repugnant to the clause of the Constitution empowering Congress to regulate commerce among the
States, but that the package there in question, and which had
been brought from Indiana, became, on its delivery in Jersey
City, subject to the laws of New Jersey relating generally to
articles of that nature.
So in State v. .Marshall, 6 'N. H. 549, 551, 552,, arising
under a statute of New Hampshire relating to the sale of
imitation butter, the court said: "Butter is a necessary article
of food, of almost universal consumption; and if an article
compounded from cheaper ingredients, which many people
would not purchase or use if they knew what it was, can
be made so closely to resemble butter that ordinary persons
cannot distinguish it from genuine butter, the liability to
deception is such that the protection of the public requires
those aealinfg in the article in some way to designate its real
character.

.

.

.

The prohibition of the statute being di-

rected against imposition in selling or exposing for sale artificial
compounds resembling butter in appearance and flavor, and
liable t6 be mistaken for genuine butter, it-is no defence that
the article sold or exposed for sale is free from impurity and
unwholesome ingredients, and healthy and nutritious as an
article of food."
In State v. Addington, 77 Missouri, 110, 118, the court, referring to a statute prohibiting the manufacture and sale of
oleaginous substances, or compounds of the same, in imitation
of dairy products, said: " The central idea of the statute
before us seems very manifest; it was, in our opinion, the
prevention of facilities for selling -or manufacturing a spurious
article of butter, resembling the genuine article so closely in
its external appearance as to render it easy to deceive purchasers into buying 'that which they would not buy but for
the deception. The history of legislation on this subject, as
well as the phraseology of the act itself, very strongly tends
to confirm this view. If this was the purpose of the enact-

OCTOBER TERI',

1894.

Opinion of the Court.

ment now under discussion, we discover nothing in its provisions which enables us, in the light of the authorities, to say
that the legislature, when passing the act, exceeded the power
confided to that department of the government; and unless
we can say this, we cannot hold the act to be anything less
than valid."
To the same effect are Powell v. Commonwealth, 114 Penn.
St. 265; Butler v. @ambers, 36 Minnesota, 69; and Weideman
v. State, 56 IN. W. Rep. (Minnesota) 688.
In Railroad Co. v. Husen, above cited, the court, speaking
generally, said that the police power of a State extended to
the making of regulations "promotive of domestic order,
morals, health, and safety." It was there held, among other
things, to be " within the range of legislative action to define
the mode and manner in which every one may so use his own
as not to injure others," and that "the police powers of a State
justified the adoption of precautionary measures against social
evils," and the enactment of such laws as would have "immediate connection with the protection of persons and property against the noxious acts of others."
It has therefore been adjudged that the States may legislate
to prevent the spread of crime, and may exclude from their
limits paupers, convicts, persons likely to become a public
charge, and persons afflicted with contagious or infectious
diseases. These and other like things having immediate connection with the health, morals, and safety of the people, may
be done by the States in the exercise of the right of selfdefence. And yet it is supposed that the owners of a compound which has been put in a condition to cheat the public
into believing that it is a particular article of food in daily
use and eagerly sought by people in every condition of life,
are protected by the Constitution in making a sale of it against
the will of the State in which it is offered for sale, because of
the circumstance that it is an original package, and has become
a subject of ordinary traffic. We are unwilling to accept this
view. We are of opinion that it is within the power of a
State to exclude from its markets any compound manufactured
in another State, which has been artificially colored or adul-

PLUMLEY v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

terated so as to cause it to look like an article of food in
general use, and the sale of which may, by reason of such
coloration or adulteration, cheat the general public into purchasing that which they may not intend to buy. The Constitution of the United States does not secure to any one the
privilege of defrauding the public. The deception against
which the statute of M assachtisetts is aimed is an offence
against society; and the States are as competent to protect
their people against such offences or wrongs as they are to
protect them against crimes or wrongs of more serious character And this protection may be given without violating
any right secured by the national Constitution, and without infringing the authority of the general government. A State
enactment forbidding the sale of deceitful imitations of articles
of food in general use among the people does not abridge any
-privilege secured to citizens of the United States, nor, in any
just sense, interfere with the freedom of commerce among the
several States. It is legislation which "can be most advantageously exercised by the States themselves." Gibbons v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203.
this court has
We are not unmindful of the fact -indeed,
of ten had. occasion to observe - that the acknowledged power
of the States to protect the morals, the health, and safety of
their people by appropriate legislation, sometimes touches, in
its exercise, the line separating the respective domains of
national and state authority. But in view of the complex
system of government which exists in this country, "presenting," as this court, speaking by Chief Justice Marshall, has
said, "the rare and difficult scheme of one general government,
whose action extends over the whole, but which possesses only
certain enumerated powers, and of numerous state governments, which retain and exercise all powers not delegated to
the Union," the judiciary of the United States should not
strike down a legislative enactment of a State- especially if
it has direct connection with the social order, the health, and
such legislation plainly and
the morals of its people -unless
or secured by the
granted
right
some
violates
palpably
upon
the authorityAeleencroaches
or
Constitution
national

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Field, Brewer, JJ.

gated to the United States for the attainment of objects of
national concern.
We cannot so adjudge in reference to the statute of Mlassachusetts, and as the court below correctly held that the
plaintiff in error was not restrained of his liberty in violation
of the Constitution of the United States, the judgment must
be affirmed.
M-R. JusricE JAcKSON, now absent, was present at the argument and participated in the decision of this case. He conJugment affirmed.
curs in this opinion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIoE FULLER, with whom concurred MR. JusTICE FIELD and MR. JuSTIcE BREWER, dissenting.

The power vested in Congress to regulate commerce among
the several States is the power to prescribe the rule by which
that commerce is to be governed, and, as that commerce is
national in its character and must be governed by a uniform
system, so long as Congress does not pass any law to regulate
it, or allowing the States to do so, it thereby indicates its
will that such commerce shall be free and untrammelled.
Manifestly, whenever state legislation comes in conflict with
that will, it must give way.
In whatever language such legislation may be framed, its
purpose must be determined by its natural and reasonable
effect, and the presumption that it was enacted in good faith
cannot control the determination of the question whether it
is or is not repugnant to the Constitution of the United
States.
Upon this record oleomargarine is conceded to be a wholesome, palatable, and nutritious article of food, in no way
deleterious to the public health or welfare. It is of the natural color of butter and looks like butter, and is often colored,
as butter is, by harmless ingredients, a deeper yellow, to
render it more attractive to consumers. The assumption that
it is thus colored to make it appear to be a different article,
generically, than it .is, has no legal basis in this case to rest
on. It cannot be denied that oleomargarine is a recognized

PLUMILEY v. MaSSACHUSETTS.
Dissenting Opinion: Fuller, C.J., Field, Brewer, JJ.

article of commerce, and moreover, it is regulated as such, for
revenue purposes, by the act o[ Congress of August 2, 1886,
c. 840, 21 Stat. 209; United States v. Eaton, 1441 U. S. 677.
The act under consideration prohibits its sale if "in imitation of yellow butter," though it may be sold "in a separate
and distinct form, and in such manner as will advise the
consumer of its real character,*free from coloration or ingredient that causes it to look like butter." This prohibits its
sale in its natural state of light yellow, or when colored a
deeper yellow, because in either case it looks like butter.
The statute is not limited to imitations made for a fraudulent
purpose, that is, intentionally made to deceive. The act of
Congress requiring, under penalty, oleomargarine to be sold
only in designated packages, marked, stamped, and branded
as prescribed, and numerous acts of M assachusetts, minutely
providing against deception in that respect, (Pub. Stat. Mlass.
c. 56; Stats. 1884, c. 310; Stats. 1886, c. 317; Stats. 1891,
c. 412,) amply protect the public-from the danger of being
induced to purchase oleomargarine for butter.. The natural
and reasonable effect of this statute is to prevent the sale of
oleomargarine because it looks like butter. How this resemblance, although it might possibly mislead a purchaser, renders it any the less an article of commerce, it is difficult
to see.
I deny that a State may exclude from commerce legitimate
subjects of commercial dealings because of the possibility
that their appearance may deceive purchasers in regard to
their qualities.
In the language of Knowlton, J., in the dissenting opinion
below, I am not "prepared to hold that no cloth whose fabric
is so carded and spun and woven and finished as to give it the
appearance of being wholly wool, when in fact it is in part
cotton, can be a subject of commercial transactions, or that no
jewelry which is not gold, but is made to resemble gold, and
no imitations of precious, stones, however desirable they may
be considered by those who wish to wear them, shall be
deemed articles of merchandise in regard to which Congress
may make commercial regulations."
VOL. cLV-Si

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Other illustrations will readily suggest themselves. The
concession involves a serious circumscription of the realm of
trade and destroys the rule by an unnecessary exception.
The right to import, export, or sell oleomargarine in the
original package under the regulations prescribed by Congress cannot be inhibited by such legislation as that before us.
Fluctuation in decision in respect of so vital a power as that
to regulate commerce among the several States, is to be deprecated, and the opinion and judgment in this case seem to me
clearly inconsistent with settled principles. I dissent from
the opinion and judgment, and am authorized to say that
MR. JUSTICE FIELD and AIR. JUSTICE BREWER concur with me
in so doing.

POSTAL TELEGRAPH

CABLE COMPANY v.

ALABAMA.
ERROR TO

THeE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
No. 702. Submitted November 19, 1S94. -Decided

December 17, 1894.

Under the Judiciary Acts of the United States, a suit taken between a State
and a citizen or corporation of another State is not a suit between citizens of different States; and the Circuit Court of the United States has
no jurisdiction of it, unless it arises under the Constitution, laws, or
treaties of the United States.
Under the acts of March 3, 1887, c. 373, and August 13, 1888, c. 866, a case
(not depending on the citizenship of the parties, nor otherwise specially
provided for) cannot be removed from a state court into tile Circuit
Court of the United States, as one arising under the Constitution, laws,
or treaties of the United States, unless that appears by the plaintiff's
statement of his own claim; and, if it does not so appear, the want cannot be supplied by any statement in the petition for removal or in the
subsequent pleadings.

THIS was an action brought November 4, 1892, in the circuit court of M ontgamery County in the State of Alabama,
by the State of Alabama against the Postal Telegraph Cable
Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State

