OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

Fredericksburg Company cannot be excused from liability
because of any possession shown in trustees."
An examination of the trust deed discloses a provision that
the trustees, in case of default for a period of ninety days,
aind on the request in writing of the holders of the bonds,
might take possession of the railroad and appoint agents to
conduct its affairs;, and it was claimed that the court might
presume that the possession of the trustees, relied on to defeat
the suit against the company, was in pursuance of that provision.
However this may be, we think that there was evidence
which justified the court in submitting the question of the
exclusive possession by the trustees to the jury, and that the
instructions given were not erroneous in any substantial particular. The observations already made respecting the similar
claim on behalf of the receiver of the Alexandria and Washington Railroad Company are applicable here, but need not
be repeated.
Judgment of the general tern? of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia reversed, and case remanded to that
court with directionsto set aside the judgment of the special
term, and to permit the plaintiffs to elect to become nonsuit
as against the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, and take
judgment on the verdict against the other defendants, and,
if they do not so elect, then to set aside the verdict and
order a new trial generally.

LAKE SUPERIOR SHIP CANAL, RAILWAY AND
IRON COMPANY v. CUNNINGHAM.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THr

WESTERN DISTRICT OF M1ICHIGAN:
No. 49. Argued November 2, 5, 1894. - Decided December 10, 1S94.

The grant of public lands to Michigan in the act of June 3, 1856, c. 44, II
Stat. 21, to aid in the construction of "railroads from Little Bay de
Noquet to Marquette, and thence to Ontonagon, and from the two last
named places to the Wisconsin state line," was a grant in prcesenti, which

upon the filing of the map of definite location, November 30, 1857,

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

355

Syllabus.
operated to withdraw the lands from public domain open to settlement
by individuals; and the provision in the act for forfeiture of the grant
if the road should not be completed within ten years was a condition
strbsequent, which could only be enforced by the United States.
That act contemplated separate railroads from Ontonagon to the state line
and from Marquette to the state line, and was so regarded and treated by
the State of Michigan.
Prior to-the act of March 2, 1889, c. 414,25 Stat. 1008, no legislative or judicial proceeding was taken by the United States, looking to a forfeiture
of the Ontonagon grant; no act or resolution was passed by the legislature of Micligan retransferring it to the United States; and the
conveyance executed by the Governor of Michigan, August 14, 1870,
assuming to formally release it to the United States, was beyond the
scope of his powers and void.
As general terms in a subsequent Congressional grant are always held not
to include lands embraced within the terms of a prior grant, and as by
the filing of the map of definite location of the railroad, and the certification of the lands to the State, the lands granted by the act of June 3,
1856, had become identified and separated from the public domain before
the passage of the act of March 3, 1865, c. 202, 13 Stat. 519, granting
lands to Michigan to aid in the construction of a ship canal, thb State
acquired no title to such lands through the latter act, and whether they
were or were not returned to the United States was not a question of
fact, but one of law, depending upon the construction to be given to the
resolution of the legislature of Michigan of ' February 21, 1867.
At the time of the passage of the act of March 2, 1889, c. 414, 25 Stat. 1008,
forfeiting to the United States the title to the lands granted to Michigan
by the act of June 3, 1856, neither the plaintiff nor the defendant had
any title to the tract in controversy in this action, but, like other lands
within the Ontonagon grant, it belonged to the State of Michigan, subjectto forfeiture by the United States; and, construing that act, it is .Held,
(1) That § 1 grants nothing to and withdraws nothing from the parties;
(2) That the provision in § 2 as to the rights of the Portage Lake
Canal Company and the Ontonagon and Brule River Railroad Company means simply that neither forfeiture nor confirmation nor any
other provision in the act shill be construed as a final settlement
of all the claims of those companies or their grantees;
(3) That the provision in § 2 as to piejudicing any right of forfeiture
or recovery of the United States should not be construed as
denying the confirmation granted by § 3;
(4) That the provision in § 2 touching the rights of persons claiming adversely to those companies or their assigns under the laws
of the United States means that the confirmation to them shall
not be taken as an attempt to invalidate any legal or equitable
rights as against such companies;
(5) That the term " public land laws" in § 3 refers to any laws of Congress, special or general, by which public land was disposed of;

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.
(6) That the phrase "where the consideration received therefor is still
retained by the government" is satisfied whenever the conditions
of the attempted conveyance have been fully complied with, and
apply to a homestead claim as well as to a preemption claim;
(7) That the proviso as to "original cash purchasers" is not to be taken
as implying that the confirmation only extends to cash purchasers,
but as also making further limitations as to some of those in
whose behalf the confirmation was proposed;
(8) That it was the evident 'intent of Congress that in all cases of conflict between a selection in aid of the canal grant and the claims
of a settler, the confirmation should depend upon the state -of
things on the 1st of May, 1888;
(9) That the words "homestead claim," as used in this act, include cases
in which the claimant was, on the 1st of May, 1888, in the actual
occupation of the land with a view of making a homestead of it,
whether he had or had not made a formal application at the local
lanid office;
(10) That the defendant in error Cunningham in No. 49, who was on the
1st of Mlay, 1888, in the occupation of the tract claimed by him,
was, within the terms of the confirmatory act, a bonafide claimant of a homestead; but the defendant in error Finan in No. 50,
not being in such occupation at that date, was not entitled to the
benefit of the act.

TIs was an action commenced by the plaintiff in error,
plaintiff below, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Michigan, on July 17, 1888, to recover
the possession of the southwest quarter of section 25, township 4- north, range 36 west. Upon the first trial a verdict
was returned in favor of the plaintiff. In conformity with the
opinion of 11r. Justice Jackson, then Circuit Judge, 44 Fed.
Rep. 819, a new trial was granted, which, on July 26, 1890,
resulted in a verdict under instructions of the court in favor
of the defendant, upon which verdict judgment was rendered.
To reverse that judgment this writ of error was brought.
The plaintiff claimed title by virtue of certain land'gr~ants
made by Cong0ress, to the State of Michigan, to aid in the
construction of a canal, and a confirmation by an act of Congress of March 2, 1889. The defendant insisted that no title
passed by the canal grants because the land had theretofore
been granted by Congress to aid in the construction of a railroad; that he entered upon the land with a view of preemption,
and that his right of preemption was confirmed by the same

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

357

Statement of the Case.

act of Congress of March 2, 1889. The facts in respect to the
respective railroad and canal grants are as follows:
On June 3, 1856, Congress passed an act, c. 43, 11 Stat. 20,
granting to the State of Wisconsin to aid in the construction
of a railroad "from Fond du Lac on Lake Winnebago northerly to the state line" every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers for six sections in width on each side
of the road ; and on the same date it passed another act, c. 44,
11 Stat. 21, making a similar grant to the State of Michigan
to aid in the construction of several railroads, among them
being "railroads from Little Bay de Noquet to Marquette,
and thence to Ontonagon, and from the two last named places
to the Wisconsin state line." This grant was in the ordinary
form of a grant in prcesenti, the language being: "That there
be and hereby is.granted to the State of Michigan, to aid," etc.
The act also provided in section 1, "that the lands hereby
granted shall be exclusively applied in the construction of
that road for and on account of which such lands are hereby
granted, and shall be disposed of only as the work progresses,
and the same shall be applied to no other purpose whatsoever;"
in section 3, "that the said lands hereby granted to the said
State, shall be subject to the disposal of the legislature thereof,
for the purposes aforesaid and no other;" and in section 4,
that "if any of said roads is not completed within ten years
no further sales shall be made, and the lands unsold shall revert
to the United States." Apparently, Congress contemplated
among other things the construction of a railroad northerly
from Fond da Lac to the line between Wisconsin and the
northern peninsula of Michigan, and thence in two branches
to Marquette and Ontonagon, on the Lake Superior shore.
On February 14, 1857, an act passed the lichigan legislature
(Laws of 1857, 346, INo. 126) accepting this grant,.and transferring to the Marquette and State Line ,Railroad Company
(hereinafter called the Marquette Company) and the Ontonagon and State Line. Railroad Company, (hereinafter called the
Ontonagon Company,) two corporations created under the
laws of the State of Michigan, so much respectively of said
grant as was intended to aid in the construction of the road

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

between Marquette and the state line and that between Ontonagon and the state line. The language of the act making
the transfer is emphatic as to the division between the two
companies. It reads:
"In like manner all the lands, franchises, rights, powers,
and privileges which are or may be granted and conferred, in
pursuance of said act of Congress, to aid in the construction of
a railroad from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line, be, and
the same are hereby vested fully and completely in the Marquette and State Line Railroad Company; in like manner all
the lands, franchises, rights, powers, and privileges, which are
or may be granted and conferred in pursuance of said act of
Congress, to aid in the construction of a railroad from Ontonagon to the Wisconsin state line, are hereby vested fully and
completely in the Ontonagon and State Line Railroad Company."
By the same act a board of control was created to supervise
the disposition of the granted lands, and in section 11 it was
provided that on the failure by the. respective companies to
construct their lines of road, or any part thereof, in the time
and manner required, the "said board of control shall have
the power, and it is hereby made their duty, to declare said
lands, so far as they have not been sold in good faith, forfeited to the State, and said board of control are hereby required to confer said lands upon some other competent party,
under the general regulations and restrictions of this act."
The grant to the State of Wisconsin was conferred by its
legislature upon the Chicago, St. Paul and Fond du Lac Railroad Company, an Illinois and Wisconsin corporation, and on
March 27, 1857, that corporation was consolidated with the
Marquette Company and the Ontonagon Company, the consolidated company taking the name of the Chicago, St. Paul
and Fond du Lac Railroad Company. No question is made
as to the validity of this consolidation. Neilher the Ontonagon nor the Marquette Company filed any map of location,
but the consolidated company (hereinafter called the Fond du
Lac Company) on November 30, 1857, filed in the General
Land Office two maps of definite location, one of the Wiscon-

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

359

Statement of the Case.

sin part of its road, and the other of the Michigan portion.
On the latter the roads from Marquette and Ontonagon were
located so as to unite some live or six miles above the Wisconsin state line, so that the two maps together showed a single
continuops line from Fond du Lac through Wisconsin and to a
point in Michigan five or six miles above the state line, where
it separated into two branches, one going to Marquette and
the other to Ontonagon. The Fond du Lac Company built
no road - at least none in Michigan. On April 6, 1857, it executed a mortgage covering all its property, including the land
grants in Michigan and Wisconsin. Subsequently, foreclosure
proceedings were had, and by proper conveyances all the title
of the Fond du Lao Company passed to the Chicago and
Northwestern Railway, Company, thie last conveyance being
executed on July 1, 1859. On December 12, 1861, the Interior Department certified to the State of Michigan certain
lands along the lines of these roads in satisfaction of the
grants made by the act of June 3, 1856. These lands were
certified in four lists: one, of lands within the six-mile limits
of the Ontonagon and State Line branch, (clear). This list
included 142,4301% acres, and among the lands so certified
was the tract in controversy in this case.
On March 4, 1861, the legislature of the State of Michigan,
contemplating a change of route from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line, passed an act, (Laws of Mich. 1861, 123, No.
90,) the preamble and -first section of which are as follows:
"Whereas, the Marquette and State line railroad company
have heretofore consolidated with the Chicago, St. Paul and
Fond du Lao railroad company, of Wisconsin, and said company having become insolvent, and all its property in Wisconsin transferred to another company: And whereas, The most
practicable route for a railroad connecting Lake Superior with
the system of railroads in Wisconsin, should be located on a
different route from the one heretofore partially selected,
namely: from Marquette to the mouth of the Menominee
River; therefore,
"SEc. 1. The People of the State of -Michigan enact, That
for the purpose of placing the aforesaid lands, franchises, rights,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

powers and privileges, which are or may be granted in pursuance of said act of Congress, approved June third, eighteen
hundred and fifty-six, to aid in the construction of a railroad
from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line, near the mouth
of the Menominee River, in a position to encourage.the early
construction of said road, do hereby repeal so much of section
two of 'An act to repeal section twenty of an act disposing
of certain lands for railroad purposes, approved February
fourteenth, eighteen hundred and fifty-seven,' approved February fifteenth, eighteen hundred and fifty-nine, as relates
to the extension of the time to complete the first section of
twenty miles of the Marquette and state line railroad, or any
other act amendatory thereto, and do hereby place the same
in charge of the board of control, who shall have power, and
[it] is hereby made their duty, to confer said lands, franchises,
rights, powers and privileges upon some other competent party
or company under the general regulation and restrictions of
an act disposing of certain grants of land made to the State
of Michigan for railroad purposes by an act of Congress,
approved June third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and
approved February fourteenth, eighteen hundred and fiftyseven, and all acts amendatory thereto."
Nothing was said in this act about the Ontonagon Company
br the road from Ontonagon to the state line. In order to
carry into effect this contemplated change of route, the Chicago
and Northwestern Railway Company promoted the formation
of the Peninsula Railroad Company, a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Michigan, and on April 24,
1862, the Peninsula Company applied to the Michigan board
of control to transfer to it the land grant theretofore bestowed
hy the State upon the Marquette Company, which application
was endorsed by the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, whereupon the board of control made the following order:
"It is now ordered by this board that all the lands, franchises,
rights, powers, and privileges which are or may be granted
in pursuance of said act of Congress approved June 3, 1856,
to aid in the construction of a railroad from Marquette to the
Wisconsin state line, be, and the same are hereby, conferred

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

861

Statement of the Case.

upon the said Peninsula Railroad Company, under the regulations and restrictions of an act approved February 14, 1857,
entitled 'An act disposing of certain grants of land made to
the State of Michigan for railroad purposes by act of Congress
approved June 3, 1856,' and of all acts amendatory thereto."
And at the same time it passed a resolution, the material
portion of which is as follows:
"Resolved, That this board of control of railroad land grants
for the State of Michigan do hereby recommend and request
that Congress do authorize the relocation of the lands granted
for the purposes of the line of road from Marquette to the
Wisconsin state line so as to conform to the new line that
shall be surveyed and adopted by the said Peninsula Railroad
Company, terminating at the mouth of the Menominee River,
and to the .same effect and extent as if such grant had been
originally intended to embrace the route so designated and
the same hd been originally conferred upon said Peninsula
Railroad Company."
On July 5, 1862, evidently with a view to carry out the
wish of the State of Michigan, as expressed in the act of
March 4, 1861, and the resolution of the board of control,
Congress passed a joint resolution, No. 38, 12 Stat. 620,
whose first section is in these words:
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the
words 'Wisconsin state line,' in the first section of an act
entitled 'An act making a grant of lands to the State of
Michigan, in alternate sections, to aid in the construction of
railroads in said State,' approied June third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, shall, without forfeiture to said State or its
assigns of any rights of benefits under said act, or exemption
from any of the conditions or obligations imposed thereby, be
construed to authorize the location of the line of railroad provided for in"said act from Marquette, on Lake Superior, to
the Wisconsin state line, upon any eligible route, from the
township of M arquette aforesaid, to a point on the Wisconsin state line, near the mouth of the Menominee River, and
touching at favorable points on Green Bay, with a view of

OCTOBER TER£, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

securing a railroad available for military purposes from Green
Bay to the waters of Lake Superior. And the line of railroad as now located in pursuance bf said act from Marquette
to the Wisconsin state line, according to the records of the
General Land Office, is hereby authorized to be changed so as
to conform to the route above indicated; which line, when
surveyed and the maps and plans thereof filed in the proper
office, ds required under said act of June third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, shall confer the same rights upon and
benefits to the State of Michigan and its assigns in said new
line, as though the same had been originally located under
said act."
Sections 4 and 5, so far as they bear upon any question in
this case, are as follows:
"SEc. 4. And be it further resolved, That the even sections
of public lands reserved to the United States by the aforesaid
act of June third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, along the
originally located route of the Marquette and Wisconsin State
Line iRailroad Company, except where such sections shall fall
within six miles of the new line of road so as aforesaid proposed to be located, and along which no railroad has
been constructed, shall hereafter be subject to sale at one
dollar and twenty-five cents per acre.
"SEc. 5. And be it further resolved, That upon the filing
in the General Land Office of the lists of said railroad lands,
in whole or in part, as now selected and certified in the General Land Office, with the certificate of the governor, of the
State of Michigan, under the seal of the State, that said State
and its assigns surrender all claims to the lands, as aforesaid,
set forth and described in the lists thereof thus certified, and
that the same have never been pledged or sold or in anywise
encumbered, then the State of Michigan or its assigns shall be
entitled to receive a like quantity of land, selected in like
manner, upon the new line of road as thus surrendered upon
the first line, and to the extent of six sections per mile in the
aggregate for every mile of the new line, according to the
general provisions of the act of June third, eighteen hundred
and fifty-six."

LANE SUPERIOR &c. CO. V. CUNNINGHAM.

363

Statement of the Case.

Prior to this time, and on April 25, 1862, Congress had
authorized a relocation of the line in the State of Wisconsin
so as to connect with the proposed line from Marquette southward, contemplated by the act of March 4, 1861, of the State
of Michigan. 12 Stat. 618, No. 30. On March 18, 1863, in
the legislation of the State of Michigan; appears an act,
(Laws of Mich. 1863, 186, No. 127,) the first- section of which
is as follows:
"SC. 1. The People of the State of Michigan enact, That
the grant of lands conferred by the board of control upon the
Peninsula railroad company, under authority of an act approved March fourth, eighteen hundred and sixty-one, and
upon the relocated route authorized for military purposes by
resolution of Congress approved July fifth, eighteen hundred
and sixty-two, is hereby confirmed unto the said Peninsula
railroad company: Provided, It shall construct the railroad
referred to according to the requirements of the act and resolution of Congress herein referred to."
On May 3, 1863, the Peninsula Company executed a relinquishment to the United States. This relinquishment, after
reciting the forfeiture of the grant to the. Marquette Company
and its bestowal on the Peninsula Company, and the contemplated change of route, reads:
"Now, therefore, the said Peninsula Railroad Company, in
consideration of the Piremises and in consideration that the
United States will cause or permit the relocation of said land
grant so as to conform to said new line under the provisions of
said resolution and the acts. aforesaid, do hereby release and
surrender to the United States of America all .right, claim, and
interest in and to so much of the lands heretofore located on
the original proposed line of the Marquette and State Line
Railroad, from Marquette to the Brule River, in township
forty-two (42) north of range thirty-five (35) west, sufficient
to cover one hundred and sixty- ne thousand one hundred
and four and thirty-eight one-hundredths acres (161,104.38) of
land as approved by certificate thereof filed in the General
Land Office of the United States on the 12th day of December, 1861, which the said Peninsula Railroad Company may

OCTOBER TERM, 1834.
Statement of the Case.

have acquired under the grant and location aforesaid and the
transfer thereof to said company as lie between the mouth of
the Brule River and the township line, between ranges numbers twenty-eight and twenty-nine west of the meridian of
Michigan."
On February 21, 1867, the legislature of Michigan passed a
joint resolution (1 Laws of Michigan, 1867, 317) in words
following:
" Whereas, By act of Congress, approved June third, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, there was made, among other grants
to this State, a grant of land to aid in the construction of
a railroad from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line; and
whereas, by joint resolution of Congress, approved July fifth,
eighteen hundred and sixty-two, a change of. the route of said
road was authorized, and in fact has been made; and whereas,
the company have executed a release of said land to the governor; therefore,
"Resolved by the Senate and House of Repnresentativesof the
State of fichigan, That the governor be and he is hereby
authorized to execute and file the certificate of non-incumbrance and surrender to the United States of the land on the
original line of said railroad, required by said joint resolution"
On January 31, 1868, a further release was executed by the
Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, with which
the Peninsula Company had theretofore consolidated, which
release commences with this recital:
"Whereas by act of Congress of the United States, approved on the third day of June, A.D. 1856, entitled 'A bill
making a grant of lands to the State of Michigan in alternate
sections to aid in the construction of railroads in said State,'
every alternate section of land designated by odd numbers for
six sections in width on each side of said roads, was granted
to said State of Michigan to aid in the construction of railroads from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line."
And then, 'after reciting various acts and resolutions of
Congress and the State of Michigan, hereinbefore referred to,
proceeds as follows:

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

365

Statement of the Case.
"And whereas lists of said railroad lands granted by said
aot of 1856 to aid in the construction of said railroad from
Marquette to the Wisconsin state line, as the same was originally located, have been filed in the General Land Office:
"Now, therefore, the said Chicago and Northwe~tern Railway Conpany, in consideration of the premises, does hereby
remise, release, and forever quitclaim unto the said State of
Michigan, and its assigns forever all-the right, title, and interest it now has or has ever had in and to the following pieces
or parcels of land situate, lying, and being in the said State of
Michigan, and conveyed and certified to said State in accordance with the several acts of Congress hereinbefore specifically
referred to -that is to say: (Here follow the descriptions of
lands embraced in three of the lists hereinbefore Mentioned,
to wit: First, the lands within the six-miles clear limits of the
railroad from Marquette to the Wisconsin state line, containing 112,145.38 acres; second, lists of lands within the sixmiles limits of the lines of railroad from Ontonagon to the
state line, and from Marquette to the state line, where they
intersect and cross each other, containing 41,649.25 acres;
third, list of lands within the six-miles limits of the line of
railroad from Ontonagon to the Wisconsin state line, and the
Marquette and Ontonagon railroad, where they intersect and
cross each other, containing 32,305.93 acres.)"
None of the lands within the " clear" limits of the road
from Ontonagon to the state line were included in this release:
On May 1, 1868, the governor of the State of Michigan executed to the United States a release of the same lands by an
instrument containing substantially the same recitals. These
releases seem to have been forwarded by the solicitor of the
Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company to the Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington, who answered
on July 13, 1868, acknowledging the receipt and approving the
releases as good for the lands described therein, but adding
this reference to the lands within the ".clear" limits of the
Ontonagon road: "I have to invite your attention to a list
of lands, embracing 142,430.23 acres, certified to the State
December 21, 1861, for the branch line to Ontonagon, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

are omitted in the aforesaid release. The state and railroad
company are requested to execute a similar release for said
lands, -which will complete the whole matter for both branches."
Some correspondence followed between the commissioner
and the solicitor, and, the list having been furnished by the
former to the latter, the Chicago and Northwestern Railway
Company, on June 17, 1870, executed a formal release of these
lands to the State of Michigan. -This instrument in its recitals referred to the various acts and resolutions of the State
of Michigan and the United States mentioned in the former
releases, and recited that this was also made in consideration
thereof. Thereafter, and on August 14, 1870, the governor of
the State of Michigan likewise executed a formal release of
the same lands to the United States. On May 29, 1873, the
Commissioner of the General Land Office gave notice to the
officers of the local land office that these last-named lands
were restored to the public domain, but on July 30 following
countermanded by telegraph such order of restoration. The
telegram was sent upon the receipt of a letter from the then
governor of the State of Michigan, notifying the Land Department that the release executed by' the former governor
of the lands within the " clear" limits of the Ontonagon and
State Line road was unauthorized and void, because not within
the scope of the resolution passed by the legislature, and also
claiming that the lands still belonged to the State. On March
11, 1878, the Commissioner of the General Land Office addressed a letter to the Secretary of the Interior, which was
by him referred to Congress, calling attention to the condition of this grant. After stating the facts in the case, the
commissioner closes his letter in these words
" Upon an examination of the case it appears, in my opinion,
that my predecessor .erred in demanding deeds of relinquishment of the lands granted for the Ontonagon and State Line
Railroad Company from the Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company and the governor of Michigan, as there does
not appear to have been any action taken either by the board
of control or the state legislature to transfer the grant originally made for the Ontonagon and State Line railroad to

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

367

Statement of the Case.

the said Chicago and Northwestern Railroad Company or to
authorize the governor of Michigan to make such a deed, and
the title to said lands appears- to be in the State of Michigan,
under the original grant per act of June 3, 1856, and the subsequent approval made thereunder, as stated in the enclosed
letter of Governor Bagley, except such portion thereof as has
since been granted to the Marquette and Ontonagon Railroad
Company.
"In view of the fact that the railroad from Ontonagon to
the Wisconsin state line has not been built, and of the terms
of the granting act of 1856, and the confirmatory act of the
Michigan legislature of February 14, 1857, the grant originally
made for said road became liable to reversion more than ten
years since, and in view of the further fact that neither the
state legislature nor the board of control have ever conferred
the said grant upon any other, party or parties, and that at
present there is no party or corporation in esse proposing to
build a railroad upon this line, I would respectfully recommend
that the attention of Congress be called to the present status
of these lands with a view to such action as may be necessary
to restore the same to market."
On September 10, 1880, the Ontonagon and Brule River
Railroad Company was organized under the laws of the State
of Michigan, and -on September 17, 1880, the board of control
of the State passed a resolution declaring the grant to the
Ontonagon Company forfeited, and bestowing it upon the
Ontbnagon and Brule River Railroad Company, which grant
was accepted by the directors of that company on October 25.
It appears that this company built about twenty miles of road
from Ontonagon south, but never completed the road to the
state line, nor opposite the land in controversy, nor did it ever
receive any of the lands embraced in the grant.
The narration thus far develops the title of the land in controversy so far as it is determined by the railroad grant legislation, and action taken thereunder. Turning now to the
canal land grant legislation, the following is its history: On
March 3, 1865, Congress passed an act, c. 202, 13 Stat. 519,
giving to the State of M ichigan authority to locate and con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

struct a ship canal through the neck of land between Lake
Superior and Portage Lake, and granting in aid thereof "two
hundred thousand acres of public lands, to be selected in subdivisions agreeably to the United States survey, by an agent
or agents appointed by the governor of said State, subject to
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from any lands
in the upper.peninsula of said State, subject to private entry:
Provided, That said selections shall be made from alternate
and odd-numbered sections of land nearest the location of said
canal in said upper peninsula, not otherwise appropriated, and
not from lands designated by the United States as 'mineral'
before the passage of this act, nor from lands to which the
rights of preemption or homestead have attached."
This was a grant in prmsenti, the language being: "That
there be, and hereby is, granted to the said State of Michigan."
The fifth section of the act provided that if the work was not
completed within two years, the lands granted should revert
to the United States. On March 18, 1865, the legislature of
the State of Michigan accepted this grant, and conferred it
upon the Portage Lake and Lake Superior Ship Canal Company. Laws of Michigan, 1865, No. 216, 474. On July 3,
1866, Congress passed another act, making an additional grant
of 200,000 acres, 14 Stat. 81, the language of which act is as
follows:
".Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives.
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That
there be, and hereby is, granted to the State of Michigan, to
aid in the building of a harbor and ship canal at Portage Lake,
Keweenaw Point, Lake Superior, in addition to a former grant
for'that purpose, approved March the third, eighteen hundred
and sixty-five, t o hundred thousand acres of land in the
upper peninsula of the State of Michigan, and from land to
which the right-of homestead or preemption has not attached:
Provided, That one hundred and fifty thousand acres of said
lands shall be selected from alternate odd-numbered sections,
and fifty thousand acres from even-numbered sections of the
lands of the United States. Said. grant of lands shall inure
to the use and benefit of the Portage Lake and Lake Superior

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

369

Statement of the Case.

Ship Canal Company, in accordance with an act of the legislature of the State of Michigan, conferring the land granted
to the said State, by the act herein referred to, on said company: And providedfurther, That the time allowed for the
completion of said work and the right of reversion to the
United States, under the said act of Congress, approved March
the third, eighteen hundred and sixty-five, be extended three
additional years: Andprovidedfurther, That no lands designated by the United States as ' mineral' before the passage
of this act shall be included within this grant."
The canal was completed and the final certificate of completion given by the governor on June 25, 1875. Prior thereto,
and on July 1, 1865, the canal company executed a mortgage
of the lands embraced in the first grant; on July 1, 1868, a
second mortgage, covering the lands included within the Eecond grant; and on July 1, 1870, a third mortgage, covering
all defendant's property. By foreclosure proceedings. the title
to all this property became vested in the plaintiff in error.
An agent on the part of the State was duly appointed to make
the selection of lands covered by these two grants. Among
the lands selected by him was the tract in controversy, which
was, in 1871 and after the second release executed by the
governor of the State of Michigan, certified by the Land
Department to the State in part satisfaction of the canal
grant. This tract was from 1880 to 1888 assessed to the
plaintiff for state, county, township and other taxes, and such
taxes, amounting in the aggregate to $187.26, paid by it.
On March 12, 1886, the defendant settled upon the tract in
controversy, and has ever since continued in possession. On
May 25, 1888, he applied to the local land office to enter the
lands under the preemption law, stating in his application
that he had lived with his family on the land since the 28th
of March prior. This application was rejected on the ground
that the land had been selected and certified to the State of
Ifichigan" in satisfaction of the canal grant. On March 2,
1889, Congress passed an act, c. 414, 25 Stat. 1008, the material
portions of which are as follows:
voL. eLv-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

"SEc. 1. That there is hereby forfeited to the United States,
and the United States hereby resumes the title thereto, all
lands heretofore granted to the State of Michigan by virtue
of an act entitled ' An act making a grant of alternate sections
,of the public lands to the State of Michigan to aid in the construction of certain railroads in said State and for other purposes,' which took effect June third, eighteen hundred and
fifty-six, which are opposite to and coterminous with the uncompleted portion of any railroad, to aid in the construction
of which said lands were granted or applied, and all such lands
are hereby declared to be a part of the public domain.
"SEc. 2. That nothing . . . And yrovided further,
That this act shall not be construed to prejudice any right of
the Portage Lake Canal Company, or the Ontonagon and
Brule River Railroad Company, or any person claiming under
them, to apply hereafter to the courts or to Congress for any
legal or equitable relief to which they may now be entitled,
nor to prejudice any right of forfeiture, as hereby declared,
or recovery of the United States in respect of any of the
lands claimed by said companies, nor to the prejudice of the
right of any person claiming adversely to said companies or
their assigns, under the laws of the United States.
"S o. 3. That in all cases when any of the lands forfeited
by the first section of this act, or when any lands relinquished
to, or for any cause resumed by, the United States from grants
for railroad purposes, heretofore made to the State of Michigan,
have heretofore been disposed of by the proper officers of the
United States or under state selections in Michigan, confirmed
by the Secretary of the Interior, under color of the public
land laws, where the consideration received therefor is still
retained by the government, the right and title of all persons
holding or claiming under such disposals shall be, and is hereby
confirmed: Provided,kowever, That where the original cash
purchasers are the present owners this act shall be operative
-to confirm the title only of such said Cash purchasers as the
Secretary of the Interior shall be satisfied have purchased
without fraud and in the belief that they were thereby obtaining valid title from the United States. That nothing

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO.- v. CUNNINGHAM.

371

Opinion of the Court.

herein contained shall be construed to confirm any sales or
entries of lands, or any tract in any such state selection, upon
which there were bona fde preemption or homestead claims
on the first day of May, eighteen hundred and eighty-eight,
arising or asserted by actual occupation of the land under
color of the laws of the United States, and all such pregmption
and homestead claims are hereby confirmed.
"SEC. 4. That no lands declared forfeited to the United
States by this act shall inure to the benefit of any State or
corporation to which lands may have been granted by Congress except as herein otherwise provided; nor shall this act
be construed to enlarge the area of land originally c6vered by
any such grant, or to waive or release in any way any right
of the United States now existing to have any other lands
granted by them, as recited in the first section, forfeited for
any failure, past or future, to comply with the conditions of
the grant. . Nor shall the moiety of the lands granted to any
railroad company on account of a main -and a branch line
appertaining to uncompleted road, and hereby forfeited,
within the conflicting limits of the grants for such main. and
branch lines, when but one of such lines has been completed,
inure, by virtue of the forfeiture hereby declared, to the benefit of the completed line."
-Mr. John F. Dillon, (with whom was Mr. Daniel H. Ball
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. Don M. Dickinson for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE BR.wFm delivered the ppinion of the court.

The act of June 3, 1856, was a grant inprmsenti,and when
by the filing of the map of definite location the particular
tracts were identified,.the title to those lands was vested in the
State of Michigan, to be disposed of by it in aid of the construction of a railroad between Ontonagon and the Wisconsin
stateline. Thelands were withdrawn from the public domain,
and no longer open to settlement by individuals for preimp-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

tion or other purposes.

Although there was a provision for

the forfeiture of the lands if the road was not completed
within ten years, such provision was a condition subsequent,
which could be enforced only by the original grantor, the
United States. And until, in some appropriate method, it
asserted its right of forfeiture, the title remained in the State
of Michigan or the corporations upon which, from time to
time, it conferred the benefit of the grant. Schulenberg v.
Harriman, 21 Wall. 44; United States v. Southern Pacific
Railroad, 146 U. S. 570; United States v. 2Vorthern Pacific
Railroad,152 U. S. 284. The case of Schulenlerg v. Ilarriman is exactly in point. In that case was considered a land
grant to the State of Wisconsin - a grant with a provision for
forfeiture of the lands on a failure to construct the road.
After a full consideration of the question, Mr. Justice Field,
delivering the opinion of the court, summed up the result in
these words: "In the present case no action has been taken
either by legislation or judicial proceedings to enforce a forfeiture of the estate granted by the acts of 1856 and 1864.
The title remains, therefore, in the State as completely as it
existed on the day when the title by location of the route of
the railroad acquired precision and became attached to the
adjoining alternate sections."
Again, the grant made by the act of June 3, 1856, to the
State of Michigan contemplated separate railroads from
Ontonagon to the state line, and from Marquette to the state
line. This is obvious from the language of the act. The
legislature of the State of Michigan treated it as such, and
conferred the grant on two separate corporations. And this
distinction has since been recognized again and again, both
by the State and United States, down to and including the
confirmatory act of Congress of March 2, 1889, in which the
"Ontonagon and Brule River Railroad Company" is mentioned as one of the companies whose rights were not to
be prejudiced by the forfeiture.
Prior to the act of Congress of March 2, 1889, there was
on.the part of the United States no legislative or judicial proceeding looking to a forfeiture of these lands, or a retransfer

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUN1NlGHAM.

373

Opinion of the Court.

of them to the United States. Up to that time, therefore,
they remained the property of the State of Michigan, to be
used by it in aid of the construction of a railroad between
Ontonagon and the Wisconsin state line. Whatever changes
were made by the State as to the beneficiary of such grant,
whatever releases may have been executed by any such beneficiary to the State, they in no manner operated to retransfer
the lands to the United States. It is true that the governor of
the State at one time executed a formal release of them to the
United States, but such release was beyond his power. The
only authority which he had in the matter was that conferred by the resolution of the legislature of the State of
Michigan of February 21, 1867, which described other lands.
Indeed, the instrument which the governor executed, in terms
referred to that legislatioil as his authority, so that no one,
after examination, could have been misled.
Further, the grant to the State of Michigan was to aid in
the construction of a railroad. Affirmatively, it was declared
in the acts of Congress that the lands should be applied by the
State to no other purpose. Even if there had been no such
express deelaration, such a limitation would be implied from
the declaration of Congress that it was granted for the given
purpose. As the State of Michigan had no power to appropriate these lands to any other purposes, certainly no act of'
any executive officer of the State could accomplish that which
the State itself had no power to do.
The railroad grant, the filing of the map of definite location, and the certification of the lands to the State were all
before the canal grant, so that at that time these lands were
identified, separated from the public domain, appropriated
to a particular purpose, and not to be considered as within the
scope of any subsequent grant by Congress, unless in terms
made so. General terms in a subsequent grant are always
held to not include lands embraced within the terms of
the prior grant. Even a patent may be, declared void if
issued for lands theretofore reserved from sale. This is the
settled rule of this court. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498;
Stoddard v. -Chambers,2 Hoiv. 284; Bissell v. Penrose, 8 How.

OCTOBER TERM)..1894.
Qpinion of the Court.

317; Minter v. Crommelin, 18 How. 87; Easton v. Salisbury,
21 How. 426; ]?eichart v. fels, 6 Wall. 160; -Morton v.
Niebraska, 21 Wall. 660; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330;
Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroadv. United States, 92 U. S.
733; N~ewhall v. Sanger, 92 U. S. 761; Sherman v. Buick, 93
U. S. 209; Smelting Co. v. Kemp, 104 U. S. 636; Steel v.
Smelting Co., 106 U. S. 447; Reynolds v. Iron Silver Xining
Co., 116 U. S. 687; VW'ight v. Roseberry, 121 U. S. 488;
.Doolanv. Carr, 125 U. S. 18.
From these cases we make these two quotations, as clearly
setting forth the law applicable to this question. In Smelting
_pupra) it was said, p. 641:
Company v. Hemp
"Of course, when we speak of the conclusive presumptions
attending a patent for lands, we assume that it was issued in
a case where the department had jurisdiction to act and execute it; that is to say, in a case where the lands belonged to
the United States, and provision had been made by law for
their sale. If they never were public property, or had previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made no provision for their sale, or had reserved them, the department
would have no jurisdiction to transfer them, and its attempted conveyance of them would be inoperative and void,
no matter with what seeming regularity the forms of law
may have been observed."
And in Doolan v. Carr, p. 62-1:
"There is no question as to the principle that where the
officers of the government have issued a patent in due form of
law, which on its face is sufficient to convey the title to the
land described in it, such patent is to be treated as valid in
actions at law, as distinguished from suits in equity, subject,
however, at all times to the inquiry whether such officers had
the lawful authority to make a conveyance of the title. But
if those officers acted without authority; if the land which
they purported to convey had never been within their control,
or had been withdrawn from that control at the time they
undertook to exercise such authority, then their act was void
- void for want of power in them to act on the subject-matter
of the patent, not merely voidable."

LAKE STPERIO1

&c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

375

Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for plaintiff in error cite several cases in which,
power having been given to the Secretary of the Interior to
determine a question of fact, his determination thereof, as
expressed by the issue of a patent, was held conclusive. The
latest of those cases is Barden v. Northern Pacic Railroad,
15: U. S. 288, in which the rule was thus stated, p. 327:
"It is the established doctrine, expressed in numerous decisions of this court, that wherever Congress has provided for
the disposition of any portion of the public lands, of a particu-'
lar character, and authorizes the officers of the Land Department to issue a patent for such land upon ascertainment-of
certain facts, that department has jurisdiction to inquire into
and determine as to the existence of such facts, and in the
absence of fradd, imposition, or mistake, its determination is
conclusive against collateral attack."
That case fully illustrates the extent to which the rule goes.
The grant to the Northern Pacific was of lands "non-mineral," and it was held that it was a question of fact whether
lands were mineral or non-mineral, and that question of fact
was for the determination of the Land Department, and when
determined by it, conclusively settled. But those cases are not
pertinent, for here there was no question of fact to be determined. Long prior to any legislation respecting the canal
grant the lands granted to the Ontonagon Company had been
identified and set apart. The record thereof was in the office
of the Land Department. By that identification and certification those lands were absolitely separated from the public
domain, and as fully removed from the control of the land
Departmeng as though they had been already patented to the
State. And whether those lands were or were not returned
to the United States, and released from the burden of that
grant, was not a question of fact, but one of law, and depended upon the construction to be given to the resolution of
the State of Michigan of February 21, 1867.
Much reliance is placed by counsel in brief and argument
upon the "obvious intent" and the "general understanding."
It is said that, as indicated by the provisions of the two acts
of June 3, 1856, the original plan was the construction ot a

OCTOBER TERAI, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

main line from Fond du Lao northerly to the state line, and
thence in two branches to Marquette and Ontonagon, on Lake
Superior; that when this plan was changed, and the route
from Fond du Lao to the state line abandoned and a new
route farther eastward substituted in its place, it was to be
expected that the original branches would likewise be changed
to something to connect with the new main line; that it cannot be supposed that Congress would contemplate the building of a road from Ontonagon southerly to the Wisconsin
state line, with no connections at that place with any other
road, and that hence, although only the Marquette line is mentioned in the resolutions of Congress and of the state legislature as abandoned, etc., both the Marquette and Ontonagon
branches must have been intended. It is insisted that all
parties, the railroad companies, the State; and the Land Department of the United States, so understood the scope of the
resolutions, and acted upon that understanding. But it does
not follow, because the main line in Wisconsin was moved
eastward, that Congress deemed it unwise or unnecessary to
attempt to reach the waters of Lake Superior at Ontonagon.
It may have supposed that the aid already granted to the Ontonagon line, and which it did not in terms disturb, was sufficient to insure its construction to a junction with the new
main line; or, it may have thought that a line simply opening
that part of the State of Michigan to the waters of Lake Superior deserved Congressional aid. In the original act granting aid to the State of Michigan four lines or roads are
named in a single sentence. When Congress, by subsequent
legislation, selects one only of those lines, and relocates that,
it is going very far to say that Congress must have intended
to abandon one or all of the other three, and to withdraw the
aid which it had granted for their construction. Neither can
it be said that there has been any "general understanding."
True, the N orthwestern Railway Company, when called upon,
executed to the State a release of its interest in the lands
granted to aid in the building of the Ontonagon line, but that
might well be because it had no thought of constructing any
such line, and had no desire to hold on to a grant which it did

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNINGHAM.

377

Opinidn of the Court.

not intend to use. It may be conceded that there has been
some confusion in the rulings of the department, and in the
action of the state officials. Nevertheless there has been no
uniform interpretation of the condition of things as is claimed
by counsel. On the contrary, there were frequent assertions
of right by the State; efforts by it to utilize the grant to the
Ontonagon Company in the construction of the proposed road.
It cannot be said that there has been general acquiescence in
one interpretation. So, after all, as there is no pretence of
any proceeding in the way of forfeiture by the United'States
prior to the act of March 2, 1889, the question must depend
upon the scope and effect of the action of the legislature of
the State of Michigan; and that, as we have seen, only contemplated a release of the grant so far as it was to aid in the
construction of the Marquette and.State Line road.
It follows from these considerations that at the time of the
passage of the act of March 2, 18S9, neither the plaintiff nor
defendant had any right or title to the tract in controversy.
It, like other lands within the Ontonagon grant, belonged to
the State of Michigan, to-be disposed of by that State only
in aid of the construction of a railroad, and subject to forfeiture by the United, States for failure to construct the road.
We come, therefore, to the final question, and that is, the
true construction of the act of March 2, 1889.
The first section simply declares a forfeiture of the lands
opposite to and coterminous with the uncompleted portion of
any railroad in aid of which the grant of 1856 was made.
So far as the parties to this controversy are concerned, that is
the whole significance of the section. As to them it grants
nothing and withdraws nothing. And as at the time of the
passage of the act neither settler nor company had any right
or title to the lands, if this were the only section it would
operate simply to resume the title to the United States, clear
the lands of all pretence of adverse claims, and add them to
the public domain, to be thereafter disposed of as other public
lands are disposed of. The second and third sections are the
troublesome parts of the act, and it must be conceded that
the true construction is not altogether obvious, and yet when

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the situation as it existed and as it was known to Congress
is considered, the meaning can be satisfactorily discerned.
Some of the lands had been selected and certified to the State
of Michigan by the officers of the Land Department in part
satisfaction of the canal grant. Some were occupied by settlers claiming the right of preemption and homestead, and of
these some were lands which had been selected and certified
to the State. Possibly some were claimed by the State or
individuals under the Swamp Land Act, or other acts of Congress. Congress knew that these lands, the title to which it
was purposing to resume discharged of all right on the part
of the State of Michigan to use them in aid of the construction of a railroad, were already subject to other and conflicting claims, of no legal validity, yet of a character justifying
consideration. Under those circumstanc.es, with the view of
securing an equitable adjustment of these conflicting claims,
it enacted the second and third sections of this act. It .Will
be more convenient to consider the third section first. That
recognizes that certain of these lands had "heretofore been
disposed of by the proper officers of the United States or
under state selections in Michigan confirmed by the Secretary
of the Interior, under color of the public land laws," and declares that if the "consideration received therefor is still
retained by the government," the title of the lands thus disposed of "shall be and is hereby confirmed." Now, there
had been, as appears, state selections in Michigan of a portion of these lands for the canal company, which selections
had been confirmed by the Secretary of the Interior, and such
selections were made under color of the acts of Congress
making the canal grant. This makes a case apparently within
the scope of the confirmation. But this is denied, because,
first, the selections were under color of special grants to aid
in the construction of the canal, and not under color of the
general laws in respect to the disposal of public lands; and,
secondly, because the government received no consideration
therefor, and of course cannot be said to still retain that
which it never received. This view is, as is claimed, also supported by the proviso immediately following, to wit, "that

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v.CUNNINGHAM.

379

Opinion of the Court.

where the original cash purchasers are the present owners,"
etc., as though the confirmation was intended to apply to
those only who had paid money to the go~ernment, and in
that way had obtained a claim of title to the lands. There
is some force to this contention, but we think it places too
narrow a construction upon the language. It does not appear
from this record, except inferentially from a letter of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, that there were
any selections of lands within the railroad grant made by the
State otherwise than in attempted satisfaction of the canal
grant, and we are not aware of any act of .Congress granting
lands to the State of Michigan for any purpose, cash considerations for which were to be paid by the State, or received-by the general government; while it does appear that
the attention of Congress was called to the fact that selections had been made by the. State and confirmed by theSecretary of the Interior of lands within this railroad grant for the
purpose of satisfying the canal grant. The language must be
understood as intended by Congress to be applicable to the
state of facts as it existed and was known to exist, and not
to a state of facts which did not and could not exist. Hence
the term "public land laws," fairly construed, refers not simply
to the statutes making general disposition of the public domain, but to any laws of Congress, special or general, by
which public lands were disposed of. So the phrase, "where
the consideration received therefor is still retained by the
government," is satisfied whenever the conditions of the attempted conveyances have been fully complied with. Thus,
if any of the lands had been disposed of by the proper officers
of the government to individuals under the homestead laws,
it could properly be held that the consideration received
for such conveyances was still retained by the government,
although, in fact, no money had been paid; for the consideration which the government had provided for the conveyance
of such lands was the actual occupation by the homesteader
for the specified period. It will be difficult to discover any
equitable reason why, a preemption claim should be confirmed
and a homestead claim disallowed. In like manner, where a

OCTOBER TERM, 1894,
Opinion of the Court.

grant was made to the State in aid of the construction of
some work of a public or quasi-public character, the construction of the work is the consideration of the grant, and when
that is accomplished the consideration is received and retained
by the government. Here it appears from the testimony that
the canal was completed, and, therefore, the consideration of
the grant was received and retained by the government.
Any other construction than this would leave the provision
as to state selections in Michigan, confirmed by the Secretary
of the Interior, without significance. So, also, the proviso as to
original cash purchasers is not to be taken as implying that
the confirmation only extends to cash purchases, but, as making a further limitation as to.some of those in whose behalf
the confirmation is proposed, to wit, those who were cash purchasers and are still owners, the limitation being that as to
them the act shall be operative only when, as is said, the Secretary of the Interior shall be satisfied that they purchased
without fraud, and in the belief that they were obtaining
valuable title from the United States. In other words, the
rule of bonafides was applied to lands still held by the original
cash purchaser. This, by implication, excluded from its ol)eration lands held by proper conveyances without notice from the
original purchasers. And this is the ordinary limit of the
application of the rule of bonacftdes. It was, doubtless, deemed
unnecessary to make a like provision as to state selections
because fraud could not be imputed to the State. This construction, and this alone, gives operative force to all the
clauses of this confirmatory clause as applied to the actual
facts of the case, and should be received as the true construction. By this confirmatory clause, therefore, the title of the
canal company was confirmed as to the lands selected and
certified, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
in satisfaction of the canal grant.
The only limitation upon this confirmation is found in the
closing sentence of that section. That provides that this confirmation shall not extend to any tracts "upon which there
were bona fde preemption or homestead claims on the first
day of May, 1888, arising or asserted by actual occupation of

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNNIMIGHAM.

381

Opinion of the Court.

the land under color of the laws of the United States, and all
such pregmption and homestead claims are hereby confirmed."
Evidently, the intent of Congress was that in all cases of a
conflict between a selection in aid of the canal grant and the
claims of any settler, the confirmation should depend upon
the state of things existing at a named date, to wit, May 1,
1888, that date being about ten months prior to the passage
of the act. If at that time there were no bonafide preemption
or homestead claims upon any particular tract the title of the
canal company was confirmed. If, on the other hand, there
was then a lonafide preemption or homestead claim, arising
or asserted by actual occupation of the land under color of
the laws of the United States, such preemption or homestead
claim was to have preference, and was confirmed. It was the
purpose to not leave open to dispute between the parties any
question as to the relative equities of their claims, but to fix a
precise time, and to describe with particularity the conditions
which must exist at that time in order to give the one priority
over the other. As there could be no valid transfer of a preemption or homestead claim, it was unnecessary to distinguish
between such claimants and their grantees as was previously
done in respect to cash purchasers. The claim of any settler
coming within the scope of this clause was- declared by it prior
to the claim of the canal company, and was also as against
the United States confirmed. So that, in any dispute which
in this case arises, we must look to the condition of things
on the 1st of May, 1888, in order to determine whether the
defendant's homestead claim or the certification to the canal
-company was confirmed.
Before passing to an inquiry as to this question of fact, it is
necessary to refer to those provisions of section 2 which, it is
insisted, are inconsistent with that confirmation of the catnal
selections which we have seen was the purpose of the fore part
of section 3. Section 2, after clauses which have no bearing
upon this question, names three distinct -matters, which it is
said are not to be construed as prejudiced by "this act."
First, "any right of the Portage Lake Canal Company, or the
Ontonagon and Brule River Railroad Company, or any person

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

claiming under them to apply hereafter to the courts or to
Congress for any legal or equitable relief to which they may
now be entitled." It will be borne in mind that it is "this
act" -not the forfeiture, not the confirmation, nor any separate provision of the act, but the act as a whole, including
therein both forfeiture and confirmation, which is not to work
any prejudice. Obviously the clause quoted does not exclude
the idea of some confirmation, but means simply that neither
forfeiture nor confirmation, nor any other provision in the act,
shall be construed as a final settlement of all the claims, legal
and equitable, of the companies or their grantees. If, for
instance, the canal company, accepting the confirmation provided by section 3, should fail of getting all the lands selected
and certified to it, and so receiving the full amount of the
grant, (as from the conclusion we have reached in this particular case it seems that it does,) then its acceptance is not to
be taken as an estoppel against any subsequent claim to Congress for the deficiency caused thereby. So if, between any
of the parties affected by this confirmation, there should be
controversies in which on the part of one or the other there
were any legal or equitable claims not arising out of this
confirmatory legislation of Congress, they were not to be precluded from litigating such claims in the courts. In other
words, the confirmation is in such a case to be regarded as
nothing but a confirmation, and without further effect or
significance.
The second matter which the act was not to prejudice was
"any right of forfeiture, as hereby declared, or recovery of
the United States in respect of any of the lands claimed by
said companies." The meaning of this clause is not so clear.
A reasonable construction is that all the provisions in the
act, including both the forfeiture and the special confirmation
named in section three, are not to prejudice any right of
recovery which the United States may have as against any
lands claimed by the companies. That is, if there be any
lands within the scope of the original railroad grant of 1856,
to which any or either of these companies make any claims,
and which are not clearly protected by the confirmation men-

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. CUNlNINGHAAL

383

Opinion of the Court.

tioned in the third section, the full rights of the government
in respect to such lands may be enforced irrespective of such
section. While the language is a little obscure, it ought not
to be construed as denying the confirmation which seems to be
granted by-the third section, and those words in that, which
are reasonably clear in their meaning, should not be overthrown by language of doubtfil import like this. The only
other construction would exclude the companies named from
any benefit of the confirmatory provisions. This construction
would, of course, compel an affirmance of this judgment as
showing that the plaintiff had no title to the land, and was,
therefore, in no position to question the defendant's possession.
The third matter is that the act shall not be construed "to
the prejudice of the right of any person claiming adversely to
said companies or their assigns, under the laws of the United
States." This means that the confirmation to the companies
shall not be taken as an attempt to invalidate any legal or
equitable rights of aily one as against such companies. if
anything had happened through contract, or otherwise, giving
to the individual a legal or an equitable claim as against the
companies, such legal or equitable right was not to be affected
by anything in this act. But that, so far from conflicting with
the idea of a confirmation, rather assumes that there is one,
and aims to determine its effect rather than deny its existence.
There is, therefore, nothing in any of these provisions to overthrow the construction given to the third section, or which
conflicts with the confirmation therein provided.
We pass, therefore, finally to the question of fact in respect
to the defendant's homestead claim. It appears that he entered upon the lands in March, 1888, but did not attempt to
make an entry in the land office until May 25, 1888. While
the term "homestead claim" is sometimes used to denote the
mere formal applicatioh at the local land office, obviously this
is not the purport of the term as used in this section, for it is
defined by the succeeding words, "arising or asserted by
actual occupation of the land." This obviously incldes cases
in which the party was, on the 1st of May, 1888, in the actual

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

occupation of the land, with a view of making a homestead of
it under the laws of the United States.
But it is said by the counsel for the company that it was
not a bona Jfde homestead claim 'because at the time the
-defendant entered upon the land he understood that it was
a part of a railroad grant. The testimony of the defendant is
all that there is bearing upon the question of bonafides. And
while it appears from his testimony that he understood at the
time of his entry that it was land embraced within a railroad
land grant, he also testifies that he expected that the grant
would be removed and that he could then enter the land, and
that he went there for the purpose of making it a home.
Now, it may be true as a general proposition that a man cannot move upon land which he knows belongs to another and
establish a bonajXde claim by such wrongful entry, but we do
not think that that rule is applicable to the case at bar. The
sense in which "bonaczde" is used in this clause is indicated
by the provision in the one preceding as to cash purchasers.
Their purchases were to be protected if made "without fraud
and in the belief that they were thereby obtaining valid title
from the United States." It does not appear that he knew
the exact condition of the outstanding claims. If he did, he
knew that this railroad grant had been outstanding thirtytwo years, that the larid was to be restored to the government if the road was not completed within ten years, and
that twenty-two years had passed since the time fixed by
Congress for the completion of the road, and nothing had
been done. His expectation was (and under the circumstances not an unreasonable one) that Congress would at some
near time interfere to remove all this outstanding claim.
Under those circumstances, and in expectation of such removal, he enters upon the land. Can it be said that this
entry and occupation was with a view of depriving anybody
of title, or that it was, as against the company, a wrongful
entry? If the construction contended for were accepted, it
would exclude from the benefit of the act any settler upon
these lands who knew that the land he entered upon was
within the railroad grant. But legislation respecting public

LAKE SUPERIOR &c. CO. v. FINAN.
Opinion of the Court.

lands is to be construed favorably to the actual settler, and
the construction contended for by the canal company seems
to us too narrow. If a party entering upon a tract, although
he knew that it was within the limits of an old railroad grant,
did so under the honest belief and expectation that that grant,
if not technically extinguished by lapse of time, had remained
so long unappropriated by aiy beneficiary that Congress
would shortly resume it, and in that belief determined to
make for himself a home thereon, with a view of perfecting his
title under the land laws of the United States when the forfeiture should be finally declared, it must be held, we think, that
he is, within the terms of this confirmatory act, a bona Jide
claimant of a homestead. The ruling of the Circuit Court
was correct, and the judgment in favor of the defendant is
Afflrmed.

LAKE SUPERIOR SHIP CAxAL, RAILWAY AND IRON COMPANY

v. FINAN.

Error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan. No. 50. Argued November 2, 5,
1894. Decided December 10, 1894. MR. JUSTIcE BREWER. This
case differs from the preceding, in that the action was commenced
March 21, 1889, and that Finan, the defendant, did not enter upon
the tract in controversy until after the 1st of A-fay, 1888. His
entry and occupation gave him no rights to the land, because it
was embraced within the railroad grant of 1856. He took nothing
under the confirmatory act of 1889, because he was not a bonafide
clainnt or in actual occupation on the 1st of May, 1888. The
land was selected and certified to the State for the benefit of the

canal company, and was within the scope of the confirmation to
the company by the act of 1889. The title of the company was,
therefore, perfect as against him. The judgment of the Circuit
Court must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.
Mr. John . Dillon for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Don M. Dckiidson for defendant in error.
VOL. CLv-25

