BROWN v. SPILMAN.
Statement of the Case.

BROWN v. SPILMAN.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGIIA.
No.92. Submitted November 23, 1894. -Decided

January T, 1S95.

A grant in a lease of forty acres of land, described by metes and bounds,
for the sole and only purpose of boring, mining, and excavating for
petroleum or carbon oil and gas, and piping of oil and gas over all-the
tract excepting reserved therefrom ten acres, also described by metes
and bounds, upon which no well shall be drilled without the consent of
-the lessor, is a grant of all the gas and oil under the entire tract, conditioned that the lessee shall not drill wells on the ten-acre plat without
the consent of the lessor.
JoHN

F.

TAYLOR,

July 29, 1889, leased a tract of land con-

taining forty acres, in Grant township, Pleasants County, West
Virginia, to Joseph S. Brown for the purpose of boring and
mining for oil and gas, by a deed of that date, which was, on
August 3, 1889, duly recorded in the clerk's office of Pleasants
County. Brown took possession under this lease and proceeded to exercise the possession therein conferred.
On the 30th day of June, 1890, John F. Taylor and his wife,
by their deed of that date, sold and conveyed the same tract
of land to B. D. Spilman and W. N. Chancellor, subject'to the
lease to Brown, which lease is described in the deed as being
a lease of thirty acres of said tract of land for oil and gas
purposes.
On the 9th day of July, 1890, Spilman and Chancellor filed,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
West Virginia, a bill of complaint against Joseph S. Brown,
wherein they set up their ownership of the said tract of landl,
containing forty acres, conveyed -to them by Taylor and wife,
and complain that Brown, without right, was asserting a claim
and title to the oil and gas in certain ten acres of said land, and
was threatening to interfere with the right and possession of
the plaintiffs in drilling oil wells and operating on said ten
acres of land; and they charged that the claim of Brown

OCTOBER

TERM, 1894.

Argument for Appellees.

created a cloud upon their title to the ten acres, and asked for
an injunction and equitable relief. As exhibits, copies of the
lease to Brown and of the deed to Spilman and Chancellor
were annexed to the bill.
Brown, on July 18, 1890, filed an answer to the bill, asserting his right to possession of the entire tract of forty acres
for oil and gas purposes, and denying that the complainants
had, under their deed from Taylor, any right to bore for oil
on the said ten acres, or to exclude him therefrom. On the
same day he filed a cross-bill against Spihnan and Chancellor,
in which, after narrating the contents of the lease and of the
deed, as he claimed them to be, he asked that Spilman and
Chancellor should be enjoined from boring or mining for oil
and gas on the said ten acres, and from interfering with his
rights in the same.
To this -cross-bill Spilman and Chancellor filed a general
demurrer, and on August 25, 1890, by agreement of counsel,
the case was set down for hearing upon the bill and exhibits
and answer and replication to said answer to the original bill
and upon the cross-bill and demurrer thereto.
On February 10, 1891, the court entered a final decree and
filed an opinion, reported in 45 Fed. Rep. 291, sustaining the
original bill, and enjoining Brown and all persons acting
under him from entering into or upon said ten acres of land,
and from instituting any action or suit againstthe plaintiffs
in respect to the said ten acres, and from interfering with or
interrupting the plaintiffs in their use of the ten acres for any
purpose. By the decree the demurrer to the cross-bill was
sustained, and the cross-bill dismissed with costs.
From this decree an appeal was taken to this court.
Kr. Thomas I. Stealey for appellant.
.Mr. John A. -Hutchinson for appellees.
The opinion of the Circuit Court presents the points relied
upon by appellees so clearly and refers to the authorities in
support of the points decided so fully, that it is unnecessary
to elaborate the questions raised.

BROWN v. SPILMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

In support of the doctrine that the exceptions are reserved
to the lessor under the lease the ten acres in controversy,
appellees rely upon: Shep. Touchstone, 17; Plowden, 196,
561; Dyer, 59; Perkins, § 625; 3 Wash. Real Property, 5th ed.,
461; Stockbridge iron Co. v. Eudson iron Co., 107 Mass. 290,
321; Corning v. Troy .ron cc. Nail Factory Co., 40 N. Y.
191, 209; -Low v. Settle, 32 W." Va. 600; Greenleaf v. Birth,
6 Pet. 302; Taylor's Landlord & Tenant, §§ 156-15.7; Xaxwell Land Grant Co. v. Dawson, 151 U. S. 586.
The brief of counsel for appellant admits substantially that
the exception is as claimed by the appellees, but undertakes
to avoid the effect of it by giving it a construction according
to the opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in the
case of lfestmoreland &c. Gas Co. v. De Witt, 130 Penn. St.
235. But in that case it was declared by the court to be a mere
limitation on the right of the lessee to drill wells within three
hundred yards of a certain building. Here was a definite and
distinct grant of land excepted and reserved from a large tract
by metes and bounds which the courts of West Virginia have
held, as cited in Low v. Settle, 32 W. Va. 600, amounts to an
exception which excluded the parcel described from the grant.
MR. JUSTICE SHIRAS, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
Whatever rights Spilman and Chancellor have in the ten
acres in controversy, they hold subject to the provisions of
the prior lease to Brown, of which, as a recorded instrument,
they took with notice, which is referred to as an existing lease,
in the deed to them from Taylor, and which they attach as
an exhibit to their bill.
In order to reach an intelligible construction of the lease it
will be necessary to have before us its entire language, as
follows:
"This lease made this - day of July, A.D. 1889, by and
between John F. Taylor, of the county of Pleasants, and State
of West Virginia, of the first par, and Joseph S. Brown, of
Pittsburgh, Pa., of the second part, witnesseth:

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

"That the said party of the first part, in consideration of
fifteen dollars in hand paid, the receipt whereof is hereby
acknowledged, and the stipulations, rents, and covenants hereinafter contained, on the part of said party of the second
part, to be paid, kept, and performed, hath granted, demised,
and let unto the said party of the second part, his heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, for the sole and only purpose
of boring, mining, and excavating for petroleum or carbon oil
and gas, and piping of oil and gas over all of that certain
tract of land situate in Grant township, Pleasants. County, and
State of West Virginia, and bounded and described as follows,
to wit: On the north by lands of Mrs. Jones and the Ohio
River, south by lands of A. Smith, west by county road, east
by Mrs. Jones, containing forty acres, more or less, excepting
reserved therefrom ten acres, beginning at the. railroad and
running thence to the county road, thence south with said
county road to A. Smith's line, thence with said Smith's line
to a line to be drawn from the railroad to meet it, upon which
no wells shall be drilled without the consent of the party of
the first part. To have and to hold said premises peaceably
and quietly, for the said purposes only, for, during, and until
the full term of two years next ensuing the date and year
above written, or so long thereafter as oil or gas shall contin'ue to be found thereon in paying quantities. The said
party of the second part hereby covenants, in consideration of
the said grant and demise, to deliver unto the said party of
the first part, his heirs and assigns, the full, equal one-eighth
part of the petroleum or carbon oil discovered, excavated,
mined, pumped, and raised on the premises herein leased, as
produced in the crude state, to be delivered in pipe lines at
the wells, and in case of a gas well being struck and utilized,
then in lieu of a royalty, the party of the first part agrees to
accept a yearly rental of two hundred dollars for each and
every well drilled on above-described premises. All pipe lines
shall be laid al ng the fenceg, or buried two feet under ground.
The said party of the first part to fully use and enjoy the
said premises for the purpose of tillage, except such parts as
may be necessary for said mining purposes, and a right of

BROWN v. SPILMAl.
Opinion of the Court.

way to or from the place or places of said mining or excavating. The said party of. the first part hereby grants to the
party of the second part the right to remove any machinery,
buildings, or fixtures, placed on said premises by the said par.ty
of the second part. The party of the second part further to
have the privilege of using sufficient water from the premises
herein leased for the prosecution of said business. The party
of the second part agrees to, and will, within one month from
this date, commence a test well for gas and oil in this vicinity,
and complete the same within two months thereafter, unavoidable accidents and delays excepted.. Said second party is to
commence and drill a well on the within-described lands within
nine months after the completion of said test well, and to
prosecute said drilling with reasonable diligence, to its completion; he is also to pay to first party a monthly rental of
ten dollars in advance, until said drilling one well is completed; the party of the second part is to keep up all fences,
and to pay any damage done by leaving said fences down by
said second party on his premises. A failure of the party of
the second part to make said payments will render this lease
null and void, not binding on either party. The party of the
second part is only to have the right to assign this lease to the
company of which he is a member and to no one else without.
the 6onsent of the first party.
"In witness whereof the said parties have hereunto set
their hands and seals the day and year first above written."
It may be- well to make some preliminary observations -on
the sub.ect-matter of this contract, and thus facilitate the task
of its construction.
The subject of the grant was not the land, certainly not the
surface. All of that except the portions actually necessary
for operating purposes and the easement of-ingress and egress,
was expressly reserved to Taylor. The real subject of the
grant was the gas and oil contained in or obtainable through
the land, or rather the right to take possession of the gas and
oil by mining and boring for the same.
Petroleum gas and oil are substances of a peculiar character,
and decisions in ordinary cases of mining, for coal and other

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

minerals which have a fixed situs, cannot be applied to contracts concerning them without some qualifications. They
belong to the owner of the land, and are part of it, so long as
they are on it or in it, or subject to his control, but when they
escape and go into other land, or come under another's control, the title of the former owner is gone. If an adjoining
owner drills his own land and taps a deposit of oil or gas,
extending under his neighbor's field, so that it comes into
his well, it becomes his property. Brown v. *andergrift, 80
Penn. St. 142, 147; Westmoreland Nat. Gas Co.'s Appeal, 25

Weekly Notes of Cases, (Penn.,) 103.
To operate the machinery used in boring an oil well it is
necessary to erect a derrick, which is a structure of considerable height, and occupies a large space of ground. This
derrick is also used, if oil be found, in connection with the
pumping machinery. A very strong odor proceeds from a gas
or oil well, and the noise of a well in operation can be heard
for a long distance. These are some of the reasons why it is
usual for farmers, when they grant the right to drill for oil
and gas, to stipulate that wells shall not be drilled in close
proximity to their dwelling-houses.
When oil or gas is found in paying quantities it is not usual
to consume it or reduce it to use at the wells, but it is conducted in iron pipes to large tanks or reservoirs, whence it is
distributed by other pipes to the places of consumption, often
many miles distant.
These are matters within the common experience or knowledge of all men living in those portions of the country where
oil and gas are produced, and courts will take notice of whatever ought to be generally known within the limits of their
jurisdiction. 1 Greenl. Ev. § 6.
Taking up the contract in the present case, we find that the
grant is expressly "for the sole and only purpose of boring,
mining, and excavating for petroleum or carbon oil and gas,
and piping of oil and gas over all of that certain tract of land
situate in Grant township, Pleasants County, and State of
West Virginia, and bounded and described as follows, [here
follow the boundaries,] containing forty acres, more or less,

BROWN v. SPILMlT.
Opinion of the Court.

excepting reserved therefrom ten acres, beginning at the railroad, [here follow boundaries,] upon which no wells shall be
drilled without consent of the party of the first part."
Do these latter words import an exception of .the ten acres,
taking them wholly out.of the grant, or a conditioni affecting
the mode of enjoying the grant, and, as alleged in the crossbill, "for the personal benefit, comfort, and enjoyment of the
said Taylor?"
As the grant in terms was for the purpose of boring and
mining for oil and gas, and piping of oil and gas over- all of
the forty-acre tract, it would be strange if an exception of ten
acres was to be immediately added. If thirty acres only were
to be included in the lease, and to be affected by its terms,
the obvious course to pursue was to grant those thirty acres
only. But if we read the grant as giving all the gas and oil
under the entire tract of forty acres, and the subsequent clause
as a:provision that in exercising the rights granted BroWn
should not, without the consent of Taylor; drill wells on the
ten-acre plat, we shall thus give effect to all the language
used.
There is given an express right to run pipes for gas aid oil
over the entire tract, and also a right of way to and from the
place or places of mining. The so-called exception does not
seek to reserve anything out of the grant to bore or mine for
.oil and gas, nor to restrict the rights of way to thirty acres.
Its only purport is to forbid the drilling of wells upon the ten
acres. Whilst the lease, in some sense, may be said to cover
the entire tract for gas and oil purposes, yet the operation of
drilling wells, with its accompanying discomforts to those
living on the tract, is restricted to the thirty acres.
Questions such as we are now considering have been determined by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in several cases.
In Apeal of the Jfeetmorelandand CambriaNatural Ga8
Company, 25 Weekly Notes of Cases, 103, was a case where
an oil lease, in terms almost like theone before us, was given
by the owner of a farm to a gas company, "for the sole and
only purpose of drilling and operating wells, and transporting
and conveying petroleum oil or gas through, over, and from all

OCTOBER TERIM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

that certain tract of land situate, be," with an excepting clause
as follows: "No wells to be drilled within three hundred
yards of the brick or stone building;" and the landlord, or
grantor, undertook to subsequently grant to third persons the
right to bore oil on the excepted territory. This the court
held he could not do, saying: "We have to consider whether
the well threatened to be put down was upon the land leased
to the plaintiff. Of this there cannot be the slightest doubt.
The lease is of 'all that certain tract of land,' etc. This means
the whole tract. The grant is limited as to use, 'for the sole
and only purpose of drilling and operating wells,' but is not
limited as to territory. Following the description of the tract
is the clause on which respondents rely: 'No wells to be
drilled within three hundred yards of the brick building
belonging to J. H. Brown.' The well which the respondents
propose to bore is within -the prohibited distance, and they
claim that Brown, (the landlord,) and they, as his lessees, have
the right to drill wells within that part of the territory. But
the clause in question is neither a reservation nor an exception
as to the land, but a limitation as to the privilege granted. It
does not in any way diminish the area of the land leasedthat is still the whole tract -but it restricts the operation of
the lessee in putting down wells to the portions outside of the
prohibited distance. For right of way and other purposes of
the lease, excepting the location of wells, the space inside the
stipulated line is as much leased to the lessee as any other part
of the tract. The terms of the grant would imply the reservation of the lessor of the possession of the soil for the purposes
other than those granted to the lessee, and the parties have
expressed, what otherwise would have been implied, by the
provision that the- lessor is 'to fully use and enjoy the said
premises for the purpose of tillage, except such part as shall
be necessary for said operating purposes.'
"From the nature of gas and gas operations, the grant of
well right is necessarily exclusive. It was so held as to oil
wells in Funk v..Hald~man., 53 Penn. St. 229, although in that
case the plaintiff had a mere license to enter, etc., and not, as
here, a lease of the land. And it is exclusive in the present case

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

over the whole tract. As already said, the clause relative to
the three hundred yards distance was a restriction on the
privilege granted, and not a reservation of any land or any
boring rights to the lessor, and a well upon the prohibited portion was just as damaging to the lessees as upon any other
portion of the tract. The drilling of the well threatened by
respondents is therefore in violation of the lease, and should
be enjoined." Duffield v. Hue, 26 Weekly Notes, 387, is to
the same effect.
We observe in the cross-bill a distinct averment that Taylor,
before he sold and conveyed to Spilman and Chancellor, had
given his consent to Brown to drill wells on the ten-acre tract.
If this were so, it would follow that Spilman and Chancellor
must be regarded as having purchased subject to an exclusive
,right in Brown to bore for oil and gas over the entire fortyacre tract.
As, however, this averment does not seem to have received
the attention of the court below, where the case went off
wholly on the construction put upon the lease, we prefer to
leave that feature of the case to be further dealt with in the
court below, should the defendants desire to withdraw their
demurrer and traverse the allegation of a license.
The decree of the court below sustaining the original bill is
reversed, and the decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the cross-bill is also reversed, and the cause remandedfor furtherproceedings in accordance with this
opinion.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 664.

Submitted December 18, 1894. -Decided

January 14, 1895.

A chief supervisor of elections, appointed under the provision of Rev. Stat.
§ 2025, Is not required by law to make copies of the lists of registered voters returned to him, nor to arrange them in alphabetical order after filing
them, and is not authorized to charge the United States for such services
voluntarily performed.
VOL. CLV-43

