OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Syllabus.

various elements impressed the general appraiser, and what
grounds influenced or controlled his mental processes, were
matters in respect of which he could not be interrogated,
since his decision, when approved by the collector, was final,
-and could not be reviewed and the verdict of a jury substituted. The proper evidence of the decision of the appraisers
and of the collector was to be found in their official returns,
and if they acted without fraud and within the powers conferred on them by statute, their decision could not be impeached by requiring them to disclose the reasons which
impelled their conclusions or by proving remarks they may
have made in the premises.
The adjudication was of true market value, and did not
consist in taking market value and adding the cost and
charges specified in section 2907 in order to get at dutiable
value. The percentage of the commissionaires was not the
"commission" named in that section, which plainly refers to
other agents than these St. Gall dealers, and, moreover, all
these ingredients must be regarded as simply taken into consideration in making up an opinion, and the valuation could
not be picked to pieces by an investigation into the sources of
information which may have influenced the officers in the
judgment they pronounced. The"seventh section of the act
of March 3, 1883, had no application.
We think that the cause was properly tried, and that the
record exhibits no material error, if any.
Judgment ajfrmed.

THE BREAKWATER.
APPEAI FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
THE EASTERN
No. 61.

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Argued November 9, 1894. -Decided

December 3, 1894.

In view of the large number of ferry-boats plying between NewjYork and
the opposite shores, steamers running up and down the river should keep

a sufficient distance from the docks, and hold themselves under such

THE BREAKWATER.
Statement of the Case.
control as to enable them to avpid ferry-boats leaving their slips upon
their usual schedules of time.
Rule 19, (Rev. Stat. ยง 4233,) requiring, in the case of crossing steamers, that
the one having the other on her starboard side should keep out of the
way of the other, is applicable to an ocean steamer meeting a ferry-boat
in the harbor of New York on her starboard side.
Exceptions to the operation of the rule should be admitted with great
caution, and only when imperatively required by the special circumstances mentioned in rule 2-.
The Pavonia was a ferry-boat, running at regular intervals between a slip
at the foot of Chambers Street, New York, and the Erie Railway Station
on the opposite Jersey shore, northwesterly from Chambers Street. As
she was leaving her slip on the afternoon of December 16, 1887, the steamer
Breakwater, arriving, from sea, was proceeding northward along the
line of the New York docks and about 400 feet distant therefrom, and
had arrived opposite Barclay Street, which is distant about 880 feet to
the southward from Chambers Street. The Breakwater was on her way
to her dock, at the foot of Beach Street, in New York, a short distance
northerly from Chambers Street. She was then moving at the rate of
about six miles an hour. The tide was strong ebb, the wind northwest,
and the weather clear. As the Pavonia moved slowly out under- a harda-port wheel, her bow was swung southerly down the river by the force
of wind and tide; She sounded a single whistle, and the Breakwater
replied with the same. The Pavonia then put her engine to full speed,
and made another single whistle, to which the Breakwater made the same
reply. Meanwhile the Pavonia had recovered from her downward
swing, and swung up the river on her course. When the Breakwater
sounded her first whistle, her engines were immediately stopped: when
she sounded the second, they were put full speed astern. Notwithstanding this, the stem of the Breakwater struck the Pavonia on her port
side, and seriously damaged her. 'Held,
(1) That when the Pavonia sounded a single whistle, the statutory rules
became operative, and itwas the duty of the Breakwater to keep
out of the way;
(2) That no fau.t could be imputed to the Pavonia for leaving when she
did, or for her failure to stop and reverse;
(3) That the Breakwater was alone in fault.

THiS was a libel in admiralty for a collision which took

place on December 16, 1887, between the steam f.erry-boat
Pavonia .of the Erie Railway line, as she was leaving her slip
at the foot of Chambers Street in the North':River, and the
steamship Breakwater of the Old Dominion line, as she was
coming up the river to her berth at the foot of Beach Street
above the ferry slip.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

The collision occurred a short distance below the ferry slip,
the Breakwater striking the Pavonia on her port side a little
abaft her wheel, and seriously damaging her. The libel
charged the Breakwater with having been in fault for not
keeping out of the way of the ferry-boat, as required by the
starboard hand rule; and for coming up the river too near
the shore, and at too great speed. The answer attributed the
collision either to unavoidable accident, or to the negligence
of the ferry-boat in leaving her slip, either without seeing
the Breakwater, or at a time when, if she had seen her, she
must have known there was danger of collision in so leaving.
The District Court found the Breakwater to have been
wholly in fault, (39 Fed. Rep. 511,) and upon appeal to the
Circuit Court this decree was affirmed by Mr. Justice Blatchford
upon the following finding of facts:
"1. The steam ferry-boat Pavonia, owned by the New York,
Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company, and the steamship
Breakwater, owned by tle Old Dominion Steamship Company,
collided with each other at or about 4.50 o'clock P.. on the
16th day of December, 1887, in the North River, about abreast
of the middle of the slip between pier 28, (old number,) known
as the Fall River pier, and pier 29, (old number,) known as the
Providence pier, and about 400 feet out in the river from the
ends of those piers.
"2. Immediately adjacent to pier 29 (old number) and to
the northward thereof, there were two slips of the Pavonia
or Erie ferry, which was operated by the New York, Lake Erie
and Western Railroad Company. The more northerly of those
slips was bounded on the north by a pier known as No. 20,
(new number,) which was the first pier to the north of pier
29, (old number,) and extended out into the river about 150
feet further than pier 29, (old number,) and the piers below
it. Tho~e slips were at the foot of Chambers Street.
"3. Shortly before the collision the Pavonia left her upper
or northerly slip, on the New York city side, on one of her
regular trips, bound to her slip across the river in New Jersey,
which latter slip was to the northward of Chambers Street.
. "4. The distance from the upper or northerly
rack of the

THE BREAKWATER.
Statement of the Case.

slips at Chambers Street to the upper or northerly side of the
pier at Barclay Street, which was the fourth street south of
Chambers Street, was 881 feet. The upper slip at Chambers
Street was 87J feet wide; the whole slip was 200 feet wide.
"5. At the time the Pavonia left her bridge the Breakwater was about off Barclay Street, coming in from sea on
one of her regular trips to her berth at the foot of Beach
Street, which was to the north of Chambers Street.
"6. The tide was strong ebb, the wind was northwest, and
the weather was clear.
"7. The Pavonia started to move slowly out of her slip
under a hard-a-port wheel, which was fastened in the becket,
and so remained until ,the collision.. As her bow emerged the
effect of the wind and tide was to'swing her bow somewhat
down the river, but this swing was overcome before the
collision, at which time her bow was on a swing up the river.
The wind and tide had the effect also to set her bodily down
the river. Her course from the time of her starting until the
collision, was the usual course of ferry-boats on leaving their
slips under like circumstances. The course of the Breakwater
from the vicinity of the Battery was along the New York
docks. As she neared the Cortlandt Street ferry slip she approached closer to the docks, and from that time continued
on a course about 400 feet therefrom.
"8. The Pavonia sounded the usual long single whistle,
to warn approaching vessels as. she commenced to move.
Shortly thereafter the Breakwater sounded in reply a single
whistle, it which time the Pavonia was moving slowly, her
bow having reached about the outer end of pier 20, (new
number). The Pavonia immediately replied by a single
whistle, which was answered by a single whistle from the
Breakwater. The Pavonia, when her stern was about as far
out as the outer end of pier 20, (new number,) sounded another
single whistle to the Breakwater, which was answered by the
Breakwater by a single whistle. Before the collision the
-Pavonia sounded alarm whistles.
"8. As soon as the Pavonia received the first whistle from
the Breakwater her engine was put to full speed ahead, and

OCTOBER TERMA, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

so continued until the collision. As soon as the Breakwater
sounded her first whistle her engine was immediately stopped,
and when the Pavonia sounded her second whistle the engine
of the Breakwater was immediately put full speed astern.
"9. The speed of the Breakwater at the time she sounded
her first whistle was about six miles an hour, but at the time
of the collision her headway by the land was almost entirely,
if not quite, stopped.
"10. The stem of the Breakwater struck the Pavonia on
the port side of the latter a little abaft her wheel, cut through.
her guard into her hull, and the Pavonia was thereby seriously
damaged.
"11. If the engine of the Breakwater had been promptly
reversed when she blew her first whistle her headway could
have been entirely stopped in going her length of 212 feet
and the collision would have been avoided.
"12. The New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad
Company suffered damages by reason of the collision as follows, viz: Repairs to the Pavonia, $4770.02, with interest from
February 1st, 1888 ; demurrage, $2800, with interest from June
18th, 1889.
"On the foregoing facts I find the following conclusions of
law:
"1. The Breakwater was in fault because, having the Pavonia on her own starboard side and being on a crossing course,
she did not keep but of the way of the Pavonia, and in not
taking into consideration the probable and usual course of the
Pavonia under the circumstances of the tide and the wind, and
in not reversing her engine at the time she gave her first
whistle.
"2. The Pavonia was without fault.
"3. In the suit brought by the New York, Lake Erie and
Western Railroad Company it is entitled to a decree for
$4770.02, with interest from February 1st, 1888, and for
$2800, with interest from June 18th, 1889, and for its costs
in the District Court, taxed at $159.75, and for its costs in this
court, to be taxed.
" 4. In the guit brought by the Old Dominion Steamship

THE B.RAKWATER.
Argument. for Appellant.

Company a decree must be Ientered dismissing the libel 'and
awarding to the New Yoik, Lake Erie and Western -Railroad
Company its costs in the DistriV C6urt, taxed'at $41.95, and
its costs in this court, to be taxed."
Subsequently, and upon motion of the claimant, the' court
made the following additional finding:
"The Breakwater is an iron steamer of 1100 tons burden
and 212 feet long. Before and at the time of the collision her
master, chief officer, quartermaster, and a Sandy Hook pilot,
who was only a passenger, were in her pilot-house. The second
officer was on the forward deck in front of the wheel-house."
From the decree of the Circuit Court the owners of the
Breakwater appealed to this court.
Mr. Frank D. Sturges, (with whom was Mr. Edward L..
Owen on the brief,) for appellant.
I. The collision was due to the fault of the Pavonia in
starting from her 'lip at a time, '"nd under circumstances
which gave the Breakwater no alteiative except: to reverse
in order to avoid her. ' ' . ,
The District Court condemned the Breakwatei,, because
having the Pavonia on' her starboard hand and the 'vessels
being on'crossing courses, she did not' reverse as soon as pos:
sible after she stopped. The Circuit Court affirmed this decision. Ndo' suggestion of fault in any other particular is made.
She could not starboard,for that would "carry her out in
the river across the 'TPavonia's course, contrary to the signals; she could not port, by reason of the vessels accompanying her; and she did stop: The only other action she could
have taken was to reverse. She is, therefore, to be judged
for her omission in that respedt.,
Rule 19, (Rev. Stat. ยง 4233,) known as the starboard hand
rule, does not apply.
"Rule nineteen. -If two vessels' under steam are crossing so
as to involve risk of collision', the vessel which has the other
on her own starboard side shall keep out of the'way of the
other."
VOL. cLv-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellant.

"Rule twenty-three. - Where, by rules seventeen, nineteen,
twenty, and twenty-two, one of two ships is to keep out of
the way, the other shall keep her course, subject to the qualifications of rule twenty-four.
"Rule twenty-four. - Inconstruing and obeying these rules,
due regard must be had to all dangers of navigation, and to
any special circumstances which may exist in any particular
case, rendering a departure from them necessary, in order to
avoid immediate danger."
Two vessels are not under steam when one is at rest;
nor are they on crossing courses when one is moored to her
dock.
Obedience to the rules is not required until the necessity arises for obedience, until the time arrives for precautions to be taken. Then the regulations must be observed,
and continuously, until the necessity ceases. The Peckforton
Castle, 3 P. D. 11; The Seaton, 9 P. D: 1; DiZe State of Texas,
20 Fed. Rep. 254.
It is well established that when two vessels are in motion
and have drawn together into a situation which requires the
observance of a given rule, neither has the right to change
that situation so as to bring it within the provisions of any
other rule. But when one vessel is at rest, it is her duty to
remain so until the approaching vessel has passed out of the
situation.
We submit that the Pavonia, being at rest in her slip
and seeing the Breakwater approaching under no obligation
towards her except as a vessel at rest, and in such a position
as left no alternative except to reverse if she started, had no
right by starting to change the duty of the latter towards
her as a vessel at rest, and then claim immunity under the
starboard hand rule. By her voluntary action she brought
another rule into play at a time and under circumstances
which restricted obedience to that rule to one course of
action; thus limiting the operation of the rule, and making
its provisions more onerous than" they were intended to be,
or is reasonable.
The fact that after the Pavonia started signals were ex-

THE BREAKWATER.
Argument for Appellant.

changed does not affect the principle. The signals were in
conformity with the course adopted by the Pavonia. Our
contention is that she had no right to take such a course, and
having taken it voluntarily, she could not create a new obligation under it upon the Breakwater, by giing or receiving
signals.
II. The Pavonia was at fault for violating rule 21, which
requires vessels to slacken speed or to stop and reverse.
This rule is more comprehensive and sweeping in its purpose
and in its terms than any other. Its language does not require that both vessels should be in motion, nor that either
should take any given course. It applies with equal force to
vessels, in all positions - crossing, meeting and overtaking.
Its only condition is, that one vessel shall be approaching
another "so as to involve risk of collision," and relates to
direction, proximity and speed; dnd is imperative in all cases
where it applies. The Albemarle, 8 Blatchford, 200; The
Beryl, 9 P. ID.;137; Te John .Mclhtyre, 9 P. D. 135; The
Nichols, ' Wall. 656; The Johns'on, 9 Wall. 146 ; The Huntsville, 8 Blatchford, 228.
Nor is one vessel relieved from obedience to the rule because the other is not obedient thereto, or obedient to any
other rule. The Beryl, supra; The Ericsson, Swabey, 38;
The Galileo, 28 Fed. Rep. 469; The Aurania, 29 Fed. Rep.
98; Williamson v. Barrett, 13 How.101; The A. Denike, 3
Oliff. 117; The 7Manitbba, 122 U. S. 97; The Zhedive, 5 App.
Gas. 876; The Ceto, 14 App. Gas. 670.
The Pavonia had no right to leave her slip after seeing the
Breakwater in the situation in vhich she was, ift by so leaving
risk of collision was involved; or if the movement was hazardous, or even subjected the vessels to the chance of collision.
The Columbus, Abbott Adm. 38-l'; The .Manhasset, 34 Fed.
Rep. 408. This was the case of a ferry-boat.
The fact that the court held that when the Pavonia started
the Breakwater was required to reverse in order to avoid her,
establishes that at that time rule 21 was applicable. There
is no right of way into collision; nor can one vessel insist
upon a right of way, if by so doing she creates risk, or renders

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellant.

collision certain by proceeding when danger already exists.
The Sunnyside, 91 U. S. 208; The .Maria Martin, 12 Wall.
31; The Pegasus, 19 Fed. Rep. 46; The Columbia, 23 Blatchford, 268.

Assuming, however, that the situation did not involve risk
of collision until after the Pavonia had commenced to pass
beyond the end of pier 20 and her bow swung down towards
the Breakwater, at this time the situation had changed; collision was imminent and danger immediate; the Pavonia recognized the danger, for, not satisfied with the first exchange of
signals, or with the action of the Breakwater under those signals, she again gave a signal of one whistle, showing that she
did not believe the Breakwater had understood what she intended to do, or that she thought the Breakwater was not
pursuing a proper course toward her, and that there was
danger. As was said in the case of The D. S. Gregory and
The Washington, 2 Ben. 226, in view of the fact that the ferryboat herself apprehended peril of collision, as manifested by
her signal that she was going to adopt a certain course to
avoid such peril, she cannot now be heard to say that there
was not, at the time she gave the signal, any risk of collision.
No claim has or can be made that she maintained her headway as a measure in extrernis. On the contrary, she insists
that she kept her speed as a matter of right. To hold the
Breakwater in fault for not reversing at the first signal, and
to hold that the Pavonia was not then required to reverse,
nor at the second signal, is certainly a position that cannot be
upheld.
III. The Breakwater did not violate the provisions of
rule 21.
It is apparent that when the Breakwater arrived off Batclay Street no duty towards the Pavonia rested upon her
under the rule in question. She was proceeding at a moderate
speed towards her dock on a course that was proper in order
to make her landing against the tide andl wind, and was three
or four lengths below Chambers Street, where the Pavonia was
lying at rest in her slip, moored to her bridge. She was headed
up the river, and not approaching the Pavonia, so as to involve

THE BREAKWATER.
Opinion of the Court.

risk of collision, and, therefore, the rule had not come into
effect.
.Me. GeorgeBetkune Adams, (with whom was XrM.
Franklin
A. Wilcox on the brief,) for appellee.
MP. JusTicE BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The principal contention of the appellant is that the PavoniPL
.was in fault for leaving her slip at the time she did, in view
of th6 strong ebb tide, northerly wind, and the proximity of
the Breakwater.
The facts were that, at the time the Pavoni, left her bridge,
the Breakwater was off Barclay Street, about 880 feet down
the river, pursuing her course up the river about 400 feet distant from the outer line of the piers. It is true that there
was a strong ebb tide and a northwest wind, but although the
effect of this was to swing the Pavonia's bow somewhat down
the river, as it emerged from the slip, this swing, with the aid
of her whdel, which was put hard-a-port, was overcome before
the collision, at which time her bow was on a swing up the
river. While the wind and tide had the effect of setting her
bodily down the river, this was an incident which the pilot of
the Breakwater must or ought to have anticipated, and being
warned by the Pavon7a's whistle that she was about leaving
her slip, ought also to have provided against.
In view of the large number of ferry:boats plying between
New York and the opposite shores, sometimes as often as once
in three or four minutes from the same slip, their departure
at any moment is a contingency which ought to be reckoned
upon and guarded against. There is a necessity that these
transits be made with great frequency and regularity, not only
in order that the public may be accommodated, but that ferryboats arriving from the opposite shores, shall not be compelled
to lie in the stream, with a chance of encountering other vessels, to await the departure of their consorts from the New
York slip. Steamers plying up and down the river should,

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

therefore,. keep a sufficient distance from he dock, and hold
themselves under such control, as to enable them to avoid
ferry-boats leaving their slips upon their usual schedules of
time. The respective obligations of ferry-boats and other
steamers were fixed in accordance with this rule by Judge
Betts as early as 1845, in the case of The Relief, Olcott Adm.
104, in which he spoke of the rights of ferry-boats "to an
undisturbed passage between their landing places, in the performance of their duties in that capacity, as a species of privilege or immunity not accorded to other vessels," and declared
it to be the duty of other steam vessels to keep as near as
possible to the centre of the stream in passing up and down,
in order that the exit from and entrance into the ferry slips
should not be checked or embarrassed by the presence of other
vessels passing close to them. This practice has been acquiesced in for at least half a century, and has been repeatedly
recognized by the local courts. The Favorita, 8 Blatchford,
539; The .Monticelio,15 Fed. Rep. 474; The John S. Darcy,
29 Fed. Rep. 644; The Wlest Brooklyn, 45 Fed. Rep. 60; S. C.
49 Fed. Rep. 688 ; The Brooklyn, 62 Fed. IRep. 759. The Favorita was also affirmed by this court upon a similar recognition
of this rule. 18 Wall. 598.
It is hardly necessary to say, however, that it would not be
applicable, if the circumstances were such as to indicate that
it would be impossible for an approaching steamer to avoid
the ferry-boat. This seems to have been the case in The
Columbus, Abbott's Adm. 384, since it can hardly be supposed
that the judge, who decided the case of The Relief, should
have intended to overrule that case within three years, without, at least, calling attention to the fact. Perhaps, too, the
practice here suggested might be subject to some modification in a harbor less crowded than New York, where the
transits of the ferry-boats are made with less frequency. As
Mr. Justice Davis remarked in the case of The -Favorita,
p. 601: "Manifestly the rules of navigation must vary according to the exigencies of business and the wants of the public.
The rule which would be applicable in a harbor where the
business was light, and the passage of vessels not liable to be

THE BREAKWATER:
Opinion of the Court.

impeded, would be inapplicable in a great thoroughfare like the
East River." As it is clear in this case that a collision might
have been avoided by prompt and decisive action on the part
of the Breakwater, after the Pavonia left the wharf, and that
with, proper management there was no risk of collision, we
think that no fault can be imputed to the latter in leaving at
the time she did.
Was she in fault for her manner of leaving? The finding
is that as she began to move she sounded the usual long,
single whistle to warn approaching vessels, and as her bov
reached the outer end of the pier, she received in reply a
single whistle from the Breakwater. From this moment, at.
least, the statutory rules of navigation became operative, and
required the ferry-boat-to keep her course-and speed, and the
Breakwater to keep out of her way. But that there might
be no misunderstanding as to her intention, the Pavonia again
gave a single whistle, in reply to that of. the Breakwater, and
the latter answered by another single whistle. Finding 8
indicates also that the same signals were exchanged the third
time. Under these circumstances there certainly should have
been no misunderstanding as to the proposed movements of
each vessel, and no misapprehension as to their respective
duties. The Pavonia fulfilled her obligation by keeping her
wheel hard-a-port, and her engine at full speed, to counteract
the tendency of the wind and tide to carry her down the
river. The Breakwater knew or was bound to know, as well
as the Pavonia, that the immediate effect of the wind and
tide, striking the ferry-boat broadside, would cause her to sag
down the stream as she passdd the outer end of the pier,
and was bound-to provide against this contingency. This she
failed to do effectively. As she sounded her first whistle her
engine was stopped, but not until the Pavonia sounded her
second whistle did she reverse.
In this connection counsel for the Breakwater claims that
rule 19, requiring in the case of crossing steamers, that the
one having the other upon her starboard side shall keep out
of the way of the other, has no application. We think,
however, the rule became obligatory from the moment the

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

Pavonia got under way, when it became her duty to keep
her course and speed, and that of the Breakwater to avoid
her. The Britannia, 153 U. S. 130. It was said by this
court in the case of The Pacific, (New York, &c.Steamship
Co. v. Pumball,) 21 How. 372, 384, and The TFenona, 19 Wall.
41, 52, that "rules of navigation, such as have been mentioned,
are obligatory upon vessels approaching each other, from the
time the necessity of precaution begins, and continue to be
applicable as the vessels advance, so long as the means and
opportunity to avoid the danger remain." Where rules of
this description are adopted for the guidance of seamen who
are unlearned in the law and unaccustomed to nice distinctions, exceptions should be admitted with great caution, and
only when imperatively required by the special circumstances
mentioned in rule 24, which may exist in any particular case,
rendering a departure from them necessary in order toavoid
immediate danger. The moment the observance or non-observance of a rule becomes a matter of doubt or discretion, there
is manifest danger, for the judgment of one pilot may lead
him to observe the rule, while that of the other may lead him
to disregard it. The theory of tie claimant that a vessel at
rest has no right to start from her wharf in sight of an
approaching vessel, and thereby impose upon the latter the
obligation to avoid her, is manifestly untenable, and would
impose a wholly unnecessary burden upon the navigation of a
great port like that of New York. In the particular case,
too, the signals exchanged between the steamers indicated
clearly that the Breakwater accepted the situation and the
obligation imposed upon her by the starboard hand rule, and
was bound to take prompt measures to discharge herself of
such obligation.
No fault is to be imputed to the Pavonia for her failure to
stop and reverse, since it is quite obvious that if she had slackened speed her tendency to sag down the river would have
been greatly increased, and she would practically have been at
the mercy of the wind and tide. Her only safe course was to
do precisely as she did: put her wheel hard-a-port and her
engine at full speed. The duty to slacken speed manifestly

WARAEN v. KEEP.
Syllabus.

does not apply where the. effect would be to carry a steamer
bodily down the current upon another vessel which is trying
to avoid her.
That the Breakwater did not reverse with sufficient promptness is evident from 'the fact that at' the: time the Pavonia
started she was off Barclay, Street, a distance j of nearly. 900
feet, while the, cpllisioln occurred, abreast, te slip immediately
about 580
below the one ffrom whih ,the lPavonia started,
feet from where the. Breakwatpr was when-the Pavocia left
her bridge ; while, if the Breakater had promptly reversed,
she would have stoppe4 within ;her own length,,(212 feet,) or
about 360 feet below the spot where the collsiou took place.
Upon the whole, notwithstanding the earnest jargument, of
appellant's counsel, we think the decision ofthe Circuit Court
was correct, and its decree is,, therefore,
Afflrmed.

WARREN v.,KEEP.
APPEAL FROM THE OIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 60. Argued and submitted November 8, 1894. -Decided

December 3, 1894.

This court will not reverse the conclusions of the master, sustained by the
court below, upon the extent of the infringement of a patent, when the
evidence is conflicting, unless some obvious error or mistake is pointed
out.
Where a patent is for a particular part of an existing machine, It is necessary,
in orderto establish a claim for substantial damages for infringement,
to show what portion of the profits is due to the particular invention
secured by the patent in suit ; but when the patented invention is
for a new article of manufacture, the patentee is entitled to damages
arising from the manufacture and sale of the entire article.
The defendants not having set up in the court bldw a climm for an allowance of manufacturer's profits, or offered evidence by which it could be
estimated, there is no foundation on which to base such a claim in this
court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

