OCTOBER TERMI, 1894.
Syllabus.

As the agent of the government was moved to use the
Schillinger invention because the patent had not then been
established by the decision of any court, it may be stated that
it was subsequently sustained, as the findings below show, in
numerous cases, the earliest being California Artificial Stone
Paving (o v. Perine, 7 Sawyer, 190; S. C. 8 Fed. Rep. 821,
(1881,) Sawyer, J., and the latest being Hurlbut v. Schillinger,
130 U. S. 456.

I am authorized by MR. JUSTICE SHIRAs to say that he concurs in this opinion.

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 622.

Argued October 24, 25, 194. -Decided

November 19, 1894.

This court is not called upon to consider errors assigned by an appellee
who has taken no appeal from the judgment below.
The findings of the court below touching the expenditures by the United
States to support and keep a blacksmith for the use of the Indians are
too indefinite to allow them to be made the subject of a set-ofE
The United States having undertaken by Article VII of the Treaty of
August 8, 1831, with the Shawnees to " expose to public sale to the
highest bidder" the lands ceded to them by the Shawnees, and having
disposed of a large part of the same at private sale, were thereby guilty
of a violation of trust; and as all public lands of the United States
were, by the act of April 24,,1820, c. 51, 3 Stat. 566, made open to entry
and sale at $1.25 an acre, the measure of damages for the violation is the
diflbrence between the amounts realized, and the statutory price.
Under the provisions of said treaty the Shawnees were entitled to interest
on such damages as an annuity.
The United States is not responsible to the Shawnees for moneys paid
under a treaty to guardians of orphans of the tribe, appointed by the
tribal council, who had embezzled the money when so paid.
Whether the Shawnees are entitled to recover in these proceedings money
embezzled by an Indian superintendent, quare.
There was no error in the action of the court below ordering a percentage
allowance to counsel.

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Statement ofthe Case.

THis was a claim by the Shawnee tribe of Indians under a
special act of Congress passed October 1, 1890, c. 1249, 26
Stat. 636, conferring jurisdiction upon the Court of Claims,
subject to an appeal to this court, to hear and determine the
just rights in law or in equity of the Shawnee and Delaware
Indians under certain treaties with the government.
The fourth section of the act authorizes the Shawnees to
bring suit to recover " any amount of money that in law or
equity is due from the United States to said tribes in reimbursement of their tribal fund for money wrongfully diverted
therefrom."
The original petition in the case was filed December 10,
1890. An amended petition was filed by leave of the court
February 3, 1891, to which the defendants filed a traverse.
On July 6, 1892, an amended and supplemental act of Congress was passed, c. 151, 27 Stat. 86, authorizing the Shawnees
to present to the Court of Claims "all their claims against
the United States and the Cherokee Nation, or against either
or both of them, of every description whatsoever, arising out of
treaty relations with the United States, rights growing out of
such treaties, and from contracts, expressed or implied, under
such treaties, made and entered into by and between the said
Shawnees and Cherokees, and between them or either of them,
and the United States."
Subsequently, on July 21, 1892, the appellee filed a second
amended petition in the Court of Claims, introducing claims
not embraced in the former petition.
The United States interposed a general denial of the allegations of the petition a'nd also made a counter-claim of
$12,182.03, alleged to have been overpaid, under a treaty of 1825.
The case having been heard by the Court of Claims, the
court, upon the evidence, made the following findings of fact:
I. The following is the Spanish grant to the Shawnee
Indians, to which reference is made in the preamble of the
treaty between the United States and the Shawnees in Missouri, proclaimed December 30, 1825:
"Delawares

and Shawnees, claiming a tract of country

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

between the river St. Coure and Cape Gira'deau, and bounded
on the east by the Mississippi and west by the White Water,
district of Cape Gira'deau, produced to the board as follows,
to wit:
"The Baron de Carondelet, knight of the faith of St. John,
colonel of the royal armies, governor intendant-general, subprefect of the provinces of Louisiana, west Florida, and
inspector of their troops etc. Be it known by these presents,
that in consideration o the good and faithful services that
the said Louis Lorimei has rendered to the State since he has
been a.subject of his Catholic Majesty, we allow him to settle
with the Delaware and Shawnee Indians who are under his
control in such places as he may select in the province of
Louisiana, on the right bank of the Mississippi, from the Missouri to the Arkansas River, which may have no governor, and
both to hunt and plant thereon for the support of- their families, and no commandant, officer, or king's subject shall have
the power to oppose him in occupying the lands by him and
the said Indians sown, planted, or settled, so long as they shall
think proper to abide there; provided, in case they abandon
them to move elsewhere they will be considered as vacant;
and as for the house that the said Sir Louis Lorimer built at
Cape Gira'deau, it shall remain in -his possession, not to be
taken from him for any reason except the sole ones of illicit
commerce or corresponding with the enemies of the State.
"Wherefore we have given these presents, signed by our
hand, and countersigned by the secretary of this government,
and to which we have caused the seal of our arms to be affixed
at New Orleans, on January 4, 1793.
"By order of his lordship."

"1Lu BARON DE CARONDELET.
Ai~m~s LOPEZ ARmESTO.

II. The Mvssouri band of Shawnees have received payments
in accordance with the provisions of the treaty of 1825, but
the following balance remains unpaid, $1152.78.
III. The lands which the treaty of 1831, between the
United States and the Ohio band of Shawnees, ceded to the
defendant herein, were received and sold. Of these lands,

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Statement of the Case.

between December 24, 1832, and December 31, 1832, 9841.27
acres were sold at public sale to the highest bidder at the rate
of $2.081 per acre; the total amount received for these lands
is shown in Finding VI. The rest of the land so ceded was
sold at private sale at the rate of $1.25 per acre. Some of the
land sold at this rate of $1.25 per acre had improvements upon
it; but most of the land so sold was unimproved. The lands
were sold with reasonable expedition; the last sale was June 30,
1840. The total amount of the lands ceded was 96,051.48 acres.
The amount of land to be reserved to Francis Duchouquet
(article 11, treaty of 1831) was 320 acres.
The amount of land to be reserved to Joseph Parks (article
13) was 640 acres. The amount of land the price of which
was to be reserved to the Michigan Shawnees (article 13) was
640 acres.
IV. Whether the Shawnees, who, in 1831, resided on the
River Huron, Michigan, have expressed a desire to follow
the Shawnees of Wapaghkonnetta to their residence west of
the Mississippi does not appear; nor does it appear that they
have expressed a desire not to do so. Their wishes upon this
subject are not disclosed.
V. Out of the proceeds of the land sales in Ohio the United
States has retained (at 70 cents per acre) the amount shown
in Finding VI; also $6994.40, the cost of the grist-mill and
saw-mill; also $1011, the cost of surveying; also $13,000 for
improvements.
VI. The following is the account between the United States
and the Shawnee tribe under treaty of 1831:
Total amount of land ceded (acres) ............... 96,051.48
Less:
Reserved for Joseph Parks.............
640.00
"
" Francis Duchouquet-......... 320.00
"
" Hurons (the price to be held as
shown in treaty) ................... 640.00
Difference between plats and abstracts.....
5.43
1605.43
A cres ................................. 94,446.05

OCTOBER TERM4, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

Of these acres there were sold, at $2.081 per acre, 9841.27
acres, yielding $20,543.65.
There remained (acres) 84,604.78, which, at $2 per acre,
would have yielded $169,209.56; adding this to the $20,543.65
gives a total of $189,753.21.
There has been paid to the Shawnees:
Per 5th article treaty of 1831 ...................
""'
"c .4t4th
"'44
..............
......
c
6
" " (surveying) ........
"
"
" 7th
sales, at 70 cents per acre
from
Amount retained
Total .................................

From the amount due as shown above....:......
Subtract .......................................
Balance (in 18.40) ......................
Paid to the Shawnees (September 28, 1852) under
the 7th article of the treaty of 1831 ...........

$13,000
6,994
1,011
66,252
$87,257

00
00
00
23
63

$189,753.21
87,257 63
$102,495 58
$37,180 58

Interest on $102,495.58 from June 30, 1840, to
June 12, 1893, at 5 per cent ............... $271,357
Interest on $37,180.58 from September 28, 1852,
to June 12, 1893, at 5 per cent .................. 75,672
Difference ...................... ....... $195,684
37,180
Subtract amount paid ..........................
Balance .................................. $158,503
Add (see supra)............................... 102,495
Total ................................. $260,999
1,152
Add amount unpaid under treaty of 1825 ........
Total ................................. $262,152

04
80
24
58
66
58
24
78
02

VII. Difficulties arose as to the 100,000 acres which the
second article of the treaty of 1831 provided shojld be given
the Indians,. and -the United States failed to perform their
stipulation in this regard; because of this failure the United
States paid th Ohio Shawvnees 866,246.23, and received receipts
stating that the moneys thus paid were "in full payment of
all claims under that part of the treaty of 1831 which has
relation to the grant of 100,000 acres of land in fee simple to

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Statement of the Case.

the Ohio Shawnees." It does not appear that the amount so
paid the Ohio Shawnees was insufficient compensation.
VIII. Owing to laches or dishonesty, certain moneys due to
orphan children under the treaty of 1854 with the Shawnees,
to be distributed under the last clause of article 8 thereof, was
lost to them. The President deemed best to pay their money
over in severalty. The Shawnee Council created certain so
called guardians of the orphan children, and to them the
defendants paid a portion of the orphans' money, which by
laches or dishonesty never reached the orphans. Another portion of the orphans' money was committed to a United States
Indian superintendent for distribution; he embezzled it, and
this money was lost to the orphan children.
The total amount lost to the orphan children in the manner
above set forth was $10,506.39. On this amount the United
States recovered from the Indian superintendent's sureties
$1068.77, and in 1884 appropriated the balance, $9437.62,
but no payment has been made, as the Secretary of the Interior and Commissioner of Indian Affairs deemed that the
whole amount of the money should not go to the Shawnees
as a tribe, but a part at least "should be paid directly to the
parties to whom it belongs."
IX. There was paid the Shawnees for blacksmiths from
1825 to 1854 the sum of $17,408.73.
Upon these findings, the Court of Claims entered a decree
to the effect that there was due to the Shawnees from the
United States on June 12, 1893, the date of the decree, principal and interest, the sum of $262,152.02, and the further sum
$10,506.39, due to certain infant Shawnees, which was ordered
to be paid to said orphans or their personal representatives
under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior. It was
further ordered that there be paid to counsel for the Shawnees
as compensation the sum of $26,215, which does not exceed
ten per cent of the amount recovered by said Indians, and
which is to be paid out of and deducted from the said abovementioned sum of $262,152.02. The opinion of the court is
reported in 28 C. C1. 447.
From this judgment the United States appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

-Mr. Assistant Attorney General Dodge, (with whom was
Mr. Charles W. Russell on the brief,) for appellants.
hXr. Charles Brownell for appellee.

MI. JUSTICE

BROWN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion oE the court.
As the claimant took no appeal from the judgment of the
court below, of course we are not called upon to consider the
numerous errors assigned in his brief to its action in refusing
to make certain allowances claimed in his petition.
The
Stephen .Morgan,94 U. S. 599. We are concerned only with
the appeal of the government from the allowances actually
made, and shall limit our decision to the errors assigned by the
Attorney General in his brief.
1. Prior to December 30, 1825, a portion of the Shawnee
Indians were -individually and collectively in possession of a
tract of land about twenty-five miles square near Cape Girardeau in the State of Missouri, under a permit from the Spanish
government, granted to them on January 4, 1793, by the
Baron de Carondelet. A translated copy of this grant constitutes the first finding of the court below. This tract of
land was acquired by the United States under the treaty of
cession with the French Republic of April 30, 1803, 8 Stat.
200, commonly known as the " Louisiana Purchase." The
sixth article of this treaty obligated the United States to carry
out such treaties and articles as might have been agreed upon
between Spain and the Indian tribes, until by mutual consent
of the United States and said tribes other suitable articles
should be agreed upon.
On November 7, 1825, a treaty was made by the United
States with these Indians, 7 Stat. 284, under which the
Indians ceded to the United States the lands in question, in
consideration of which the United States agreed to give to
the Shawnees residing within the State of Missouri, "for
themselves and for those of the same nation, now residing
in Ohio, who may hereafter emigrate to the west of the Mississippi, a tract of land equal to fifty miles square, situated
west of the Missouri, and within the purchase lately made

UNITE]

STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Opinion of the Court.

from the Osages." The United States further agreed to make
certain payments in money to the Shawnees as an equivalent
for the loss and inconvenience which the tribe would sustain
by removal, to enable them to obtain supplies, and to satisfy
certain claims made against citizens of the United States for
spoliations. It appears that the Shawnees received payments
under this account, but the second finding of the court is that
a balance remains unpaid of $1152.78. - As this is a finding of
fact upon the evidence, it is not controverted by the government, and no error is assigned to its allowance. The claim of
the appellees-that interest should have been allowed upon this
residue cannot be considered, as no appeal was taken from

such refusal.
The only question connected -with this branch of the case
arises from a counter-claim by the government, under the
fourth article of the treaty, by which the government undertook to support and keep a blacksmith for the use of the
Indians on the land thereby assigned to them, for the term of
five years, "or as long as the President may deem it advisable;
and it is further stipulated, that the United States shall furnish for the use of the Shawnees, the tools necessary for the
blacksmith's shop and (300) three hundred pounds of iron
annually, to be furnished at the expense of the UVnited
States." The court finds that there was paid the Shawnees
for blacksmiths from 1825 to 1854 the sum of $17,408.73.
As there is no finding how much of this sum was expended
during the five years, or the extended period deemed "advi s able" by the President, during which the government was
bound to keep up the blacksmith shop, the finding is too
indefinite to be made the subject of a set-off. Indeed, for all
that appears, the President may have deemed it advisable to
continue the shop until 1854. His discretion was absolute as
to the time the shop should be continued. We can only say
that, as the shop was established and equipped under the
treaty, it was probably continued under the discretion vested
in the President by the treaty. It is clear that the amount
expended is not available as a set-off.
2. The second and pjincipal assignment of error arises

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

from an allowance of the sum of $260,999.24, based upon a
treaty made August 8, 1831, 7 Stat. 355, with a branch of
the Shawnees residing in Ohio, under which they ceded to the
United States their lands in Ohio, the government agreeing
to give in exchange certain lands upon the western side of
the Mississippi.
The seventh article of the treaty provided as follows:
"The United States will expose to public sale to the highest bidder, in the manner of selling the public lands, the
tracts of land herein ceded by the said Shawnees. And after
deducting from the proceeds of such sale the sum of seventy
cents per acre, exclusive of the cost of surveying, the cost of
the gristmill, sawmill, and blacksmith shop and the aforesaid
sum of thirteen thousand dollars, to be advanced in lieu of
improvements; it is agreed than any balance, which may
remain of the avails of the lands, after sale as aforesaid, shall
constitute a fund for the future necessities of said tribe,
parties to this compact, on which the United States agree to
pay to the chiefs, for the use and general benefit of their
people, annually, five per centum on the amount of said balance, as an annuity. Said fund to be continued during the
pleasure of Congress, unless the chiefs of the said tribe, or
band, by and with the consent of their people, in general
council assembled, should desire that the fund thus to be
created, should be dissolved and paid over to them; in which
case the President shall cause the same to be so paid, if in
his discretion, he shall believe the happiness and prosperity
of said tribe would be promoted thereby."
The court found. (finding 6) the .total amount ceded under
this treaty to have been 96,051.48 acres, less certain reservations
amounting to 1605.43 acres; that of this amount there was
sold at public sale to the highest bidder between December
2-4 and December 31, 1832, 9841.27 acres at the rate of $2.08,
per acre, or a total of $20,543.65.
The remainder of the land so ceded was sold at private
sale at the rate of $1.25 per acre. Some of the land sold at
this rate of $1.25 per acre had improvements upon it; but
most of the land so sold was unimproved. The lands were

UINITED STATES v. BLACKFEATIIER.
Opinion of the Court.

sold with reasonable expedition; the last sale being June 30,
1840.
In respect to this, the government is alleged to have violated its trust in selling the lands at private sale, the covenant
of the treaty being to expose the land to public sale, to the
highest bidder, in the manner of selling public lands. In
this connection the court found that, by the act of May 18,
1796, c. 29, 1 Stat. 464, entitled "An act providing for the
sale of the lands of the United States, beyond the territory
northwest of the River Ohio, and above the mouth of the
Kentucky River," it was provided that the land should be
surveyed and laid out in sections of 640 acres, and by section
4, that they "shall be offered'for sale at public vendue, under
the direction of the governor or secretary of the western
territory and the surveyor-general,

.

.

.

provided always,-

that no part of the lands directed by this act to be offered for
sale, shall be sold for less than two dollars per acre." So by
an act of May 10, 1800, amendatory of this, 2 Stat. 73, it was
further provided, sec. 5, "that no lands shall be sold by virtue
of this act, at either public or private sale, for less than two
dollars per acre."
Construing the treaty of 1831 in connection with these
acts, the court was of opinion that "the United States failed
in their duty, when they sold any of these lands otherwise
than at public sale, to the highest bidder, in the manner of
selling the public land, and as trustees of these Indians and
their guardians, are liable to them for any loss which the
Shawnees may have thus sustained;" and that the best evidence of the amount thesQ lands would have produced if sold
according to the treaty stipulations was contained in the
statutes above cited, and was, therefore, fixed by the court
at $2 per acre.
Assuming that the court was correct in its legal proposition
that the government was bound to expose all these lands to
public sale to the highest bidder, we think it was mistaken in
its inference that the land would have brought $2 per acre
if so sold. The attention of the court does not seem to have
been called to the act of April 24, 1820, c. 51, 3 Stat. 566, en-

OCTOBER TERVf, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

titled "An act making further pirovisions for the sale of public
lands," the third section of which provided "that from and
after the first day of July next, the price at which the public
lands shall be offered for sale, shall be one dollar and twentyfive cents an acre,
.
.
and all the public lands which
shall have been offered at public sale before the first day of
July next, and which shall then remain unsold, as well as the
lands which shall thereafter be offered at public sale, according to law, and remain unsold at the close of said public sales,
shall be subject to be sold at private sale, by entry at the land
office, at one dollar and twenty-five cents an acre, to be paid
at the time of making such entry as aforesaid." Now as this
act was in existence at the time of the treaty of 1831, and was
the latest act upon the subject, the reasoning of the court
would indicate that the value of the land should have been
fixed at $1.25 per acre instead of $2. By the express terms
of the act of July 14, 1832, c. 240, 4 Stat. 601, the lands covered by this treaty were "attached to, and made to form a
part of, the land districts in which the same are respectively
situated, and liable to be sold as other public lands in the
State of Ohio."
In view of the act of 1820, above cited, permitting lands
which remained unsold after having been offered at public
sale, to be sold at private sale at $1.25 per acre, and the act of
July 14, 1832, attaching these lands to their several land districts and permitting them to be sold as other public lands in
the State of Ohio, it may admit of some doubt whether the
government can be held by this court to have been guilty of
a violation of its trust in selling these lands at private sale.
If it had appeared that the government had "exposed" these
lands to public sale, to the highest bidder, and failing to find
a bidder above the statutory price of $1.25 per acre,-had then
sold them at private sale at that price, its obligation would
have been completely discharged. But as there is uo evidence
that they were ever exposed to public sale, we incline to the
view expressed by the court below that, as between the government and the Indians, there was a failure on the part of
the former to observe the stipulation of the treaty and a viola-

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Opinion of the Court.

tion of its trust. The obligation being expressed to expose
them to public sale, it was incumbent upon the government
to show, either that it had done so and failed to find a bidder,
or for some other reason it had been released from the provisions of the treaty. The privilege of selling the lands "in the
manner of selling the public lands" does not nullify the obligation to expose them at public sale, which still remained;
but it required them to be sold subject to the conditions and
in the manner prescribed by the act of 1820.
The difficulty, however, is in estimating the damages the
Shawnees suffered by its failure of duty in that particular.
•We cannot assume that, because a portion of the tract sold at
auction brought $2.083 per acre, the whole tract might have
been sold at that price, at least in the absence of evidence
that all was of equal value, since the part so sold may have
been the most valuable of the entire tract. We have shown
that the estimate of $2 per acre was based upon a statute
fixing the price of public lands, which had been repealed.,- In
the absence of' any proof of the actual value of these lands at
this time, there would seem to be no method of estimation
except by taking the price at which public lands were subject
to be sold at private sale, namely, $1.25 per acre. Not only
is there some presumption that the government would not sell
them for less than they were worth, but the very fact that at
that time all public lands were subject to entry at .$1.25 per
acre, would render it impossible to sell them at a greater
price, unless, by reason of their peculiar location, abundant
timber, or extraordinary fertility, they were exceptionally valuable. We are not informed why the land sold at auction
brought the price it did, but if the other lands were of like
value, there is every reason to believe that the government,
charged as it was with a trust to dispose of them at public
sale for the best price that could 'be obtained, would have
exposed them to sale in the same manner. The inference is
that it was deemed for the best interests of the beneficiary to
dispose of them at private sale for the statutory price, and
while this may not excuse the government for a failure to
comply with its obligation to sell them at auction, it tends

*

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

strongly to show that the Indians in reality suffered no damage
by such action.
It results from this that from the total of $189,753.21, given
as the yield of this tract, there must be deducted seventy-five
-cents per acre upon 84,604.78 acres, or $63,453.58, leaving
$126,299.63. Subtracting from this the amount paid to the
Shawnees, as found in the sixth finding, $87,257.63, leaves
$39,042.00 as the balance due in 1840.
3. Are the Indians entitled to interest upon this amount?
By Rev. Stat. § 1091: "No interest shall be allowed upon any
claim up to the time of the rendition of judgment thereon by
the Court of Claims, unless upon a contract expressly stipulating for the payment of interest." The real question here is
whether there was a contract expressly stipulating for the
payment of interest, or is this a mere claim for unliquidated
damages 2
By the seventh article of the treaty, it was agreed that the
proceeds of the lands, after making the several deductions,
"should constitute a fund for the future necessities of said
tribe, parties to this compact, on which the United States
agree to pay to the chiefs, for the use and general benefit of
their people, annually, five per centum on the amount of said
balance, as an annuity. Said fund to be continued during the
pleasure of Congress, unless the chiefs of the said tribes or
band, by and with the consent of their people, in general
coufncil assembled, should desire that the fund thus to be
created, should be dissolved and paid over to them." While
this is not literally an agreement to pay interest, it has substantially that effect. It is true it is called an annuity, but
the amount of the annuity is measured by the interest paid
upon funds held in trust by the United States, (Rev. Stat.
§ 3659,) upon investments for Indians, (§ 2096,) as well as by
the interest paid upon an affirmance by this court of judgments of the Court of Claims. (§ 1090.) A case somewhat
analogous is that of Uizited States v. Mc-ee, 91 U. S. 442,
which was a 'claim of the heirs and legal representatives of
one Vigo, on account of supplies furnished in 1778 to troops
acting under a commission from the State of Virginia. As

UNITED STATES v. BLACI-FEATHER.
Opinion of the Court.

the act, under which the Court of Claims took jurisdiction of
the case, directed it to be governed by the rules and regulations theretofore adopted by the United States in the settlement of like cases, and as the case was similar to those in"
which interest had been allowed by the act of 1790, under
which act the claim would have been made but for the statutes
of limitation, the interest wag allowed, though it was not
claimed that there was literally a contract expressly stipulating for the payment of interest.
While the treaty bound the government to pay a five per
cent annuity until the dissolution of the fund, which dissolution took place September 28, 1852, when the sum of $37,180.58,
the amount of the fund resulting from actual sales, was paid
over to the chiefs of the tribe, this dissolution terminated the
stipulation for the annuity only pro tanto. If the government
had originally accounted for the whole amount for which the
court below held it to be liable, it would have paid five per
cent upon this amount until the whole fund was paid over.
The fund as to this amount being not yet distributed, the
obligation to pay the five per cent annuity continues until the
money is paid over. Upon the whole, we think the court did
not err in allowing interest.
4. An allowance of $10,506.39, based upon the eighth article
of the finding, arose from a failure of certain orphan children
to receive the annuity stipulated to be, paid them by a- treaty
of -May10, 1854, 10 Stat. 1053. By this treaty the Shawnees
ceded their lands to the United States, and as part consideration therefor received 200,000 acres in the State of Kansas,
the government further agreeing to pay the sum of $829,000
in certain instalments. The eighth article of the treaty provided that "such of the Shawnees as are competent to. manage
their affairs, shali receive their portions of the aforesaid annual
instalments in money. But the portionsof such as. shall be
found incompetent to manage their affairs, whether from
drunkenness, depravity, or other cause, shall be disposed of
by the President, in that manner deemed by him best calculated to promote their interests, and the comfort of their
families; the Shawnee Council being first consulted with
VOL. CLV-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

respect to such persons whom it is expected they will designate
to their agent. The portions of orphan children shall be
appropriated by the President in the manner deemed by him
best for their interests." Under the discretion vested in him
by the last clause of the section, the President deemed it best
to pay their money over in severalty. The Shawnee Council
created certain so-called guardians of the orphan children, and
to them the defendants paid a portion of the orphans' money,
which by laches or dishonesty never reached the orphans.
Another portion of the orphans' money was committed to a
United States Indian superintendent for distribution. He
embezzled it, and this money was lost to the orphan children.
The total amount thus lost was $10,506.39.
Conceding that the government is justly liable for such
portion of this-money as was committed to the Indian superintendent for distribution, and embezzled by him, it does not
follow that it is liable for such portion as was paid over to
guardians of the orphan children created by the Shawnee
Council. The President was authorized to appropriate the
portions of these children in the manner deemed best for their
interests. He adjudged, probably wisely, that it should not be
paid directly to the children. To whom should he pay it if
not to their guardians- guardians who were created by a
council of the tribe, which is now seeking to repudiate its own
act and hold the government responsible for the misfeasances
of its own agent? The finding does not show when the money
was paid, but from the fact that the obligation to pay arose in
1854, it may safely be assumed that the payments were made
before the act of July 5, 1862, the sixth section of which, embodied in Rev. Stat. § 2108, prohibited money to be paid to
any person appointed by any Indian council to receive money
due incompetent or orphan Indians. There can certainly be
no presumption that it was paid in the face of an act expressly
inhibiting such payment.
While there may be a moral obligation on the part of the
government to reimburse the money embezzled by the Indian
superintendent, and in fact an appropriation appears to have
been made for that purpose, act of July 7, 1884, c. 334, 23

UNITED STATES v. BLACKFEATHER.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 236, 247, it is by no means clear that, under the acts of
1890 and 1892, the Shawnees were authorized to recover and
collect from the government any other moneys than those
which they claimed in their tribal relation or capaoity. The
money in question is not due the tribe as such, but to certain
individual orphans, who claim to have b6en defrauded. But
whether this be so or not, there is nothing in the record to
indicate how much of this money was embezzled by the
guardians created by the Indian Council, and how much by
the Indian superintendent, so that there is in reality no basis
for a decree in their favor. In this particular we think there
was error in the decree of the court below. Whether in a suit
by the individual orphans they would be held bound by the
receipt of the money by the guardians appointed by the council of their tribe, may be a different question.
5. Exception is also taken to the decree of the court directing a payment of ten per cent of the amount recovered to the
attorney and counsel of the Shawnees as his compensation, to
be deducted from the total amount of the decree in their favor.
By the third section of the act of 1890, (26 Stat. 636,) by which
this suit was first authorized, it was enacted that "the said
Shawnees, Delawares, and freedmen may be represented by
attorneys and counsel. And the court is hereby authorized to
decree the amount of compensation of such attorneys and
counsel fees, not to exceed ten per centum of the amount recovered, and order the same to be paid to the attorneys and
counsel of the said Shawnees, Delawares, and freedmen." It
is true that this provision, literally interpreted, refers only to
compensation in suits authorized in the second section of the
act, to be brought against the Cherokee lNation and the United
States, to recover from the Cherokee Nation moneys unlawfully diverted by it; but we think that within the true intent
and spirit of the act, the fourth section, which authorizes the
suit in question against the United States to recover money
wrongfully diverted from their tribal fund, should be read in
the same connection. This view is emphasized by the fact
that by the final clause of section 4,"the right of appeal,
jurisdiction of the court, process, procedure, and proceedings

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

in the suit here provided for, shall be as provided for in sections
one, two, and three of this act." It was evidently intended
by this provision that section 3 should be read into and made
a part of section 4, so far as the same could be made applicable. There was no error in authorizing a compensation to
counsel of ten per centum on the amount recovered, and the
action of the court in that particular was correct.
The judgment of the court below must, therefore, be
Reversed and the case remanded with directions to recompute
the amount due to the Indians and their counsel 'in conformity with this opinion, and enter a decree accordingly.

CHEROKEE NATION v. JOURNEYCAKE.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 619. Argued and submitted October 1$, 1894.-Decided November 19, 1894.

The Cherokees and the Delawdares having, on the 8th day of April, 1867, in
pursuance of the provisions of the treaty of July 19, 1866, 14 Stat. 799,
between the United States and the Cherokee Nation, entered into a contract, whereby it was agreed that, on the fulfilment by the Delawares of
the stipulations on their part contained in said contract, all the members
of that tribe, registered as provided in said contract, should become
members of the Cherokee Nation, with the same rights and immunities
and 'the same participation (and no other) in the national funds as
native Cherokees, except as otherwise provided in the contra~t, the so
registered Delawares were on such fulfilment of their stipulations,
thereby incorporated into the Cherokee Nation, and, as members and
citizens thereof, were entitled to equal rights in the lands of that Nation
and their proceeds.

'OiN July49, 1866, the United States and the Cherokee Nation entered into a treaty, 14 Stat. 799, 803, the fifteenth article
of which is as follows:
"The United States may settle any civilized Indians, friendly
with the Cherokees and adjacent tribes, within the Cherokee
country, on unoccupied lands east of 96', on such terms as may

