SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

over the whole tract. As already said, the clause relative to
the three hundred yards distance was a restriction on the
privilege granted, and not a reservation of any land or any
boring rights to the lessor, and a well upon the prohibited portion was just as damaging to the lessees as upon any other
portion of the tract. The drilling of the well threatened by
respondents is therefore in violation of the lease, and should
be enjoined." Duffield v. Hue, 26 Weekly Notes, 387, is to
the same effect.
We observe in the cross-bill a distinct averment that Taylor,
before he sold and conveyed to Spilman and Chancellor, had
given his consent to Brown to drill wells on the ten-acre tract.
If this were so, it would follow that Spilman and Chancellor
must be regarded as having purchased subject to an exclusive
,right in Brown to bore for oil and gas over the entire fortyacre tract.
As, however, this averment does not seem to have received
the attention of the court below, where the case went off
wholly on the construction put upon the lease, we prefer to
leave that feature of the case to be further dealt with in the
court below, should the defendants desire to withdraw their
demurrer and traverse the allegation of a license.
The decree of the court below sustaining the original bill is
reversed, and the decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the cross-bill is also reversed, and the cause remandedfor furtherproceedings in accordance with this
opinion.

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 664.

Submitted December 18, 1894. -Decided

January 14, 1895.

A chief supervisor of elections, appointed under the provision of Rev. Stat.
§ 2025, Is not required by law to make copies of the lists of registered voters returned to him, nor to arrange them in alphabetical order after filing
them, and is not authorized to charge the United States for such services
voluntarily performed.
VOL. CLV-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

THis was a petition of the chief supervisor of elections for
the Northern District of Illinois, for "services rendered as
such chief supervisor, in entering and indexing the records of
his office, to wit: The records of the names of persons who
.registered and voted at the election held in the city of
Chicago, city of Lake View, town of Lake, and village of
Hyde Park, in November, 1888, at which election Representatives to Congress were voted for, 61,482 folios, at 15 cents per
folio, amounting to $9222.30," and for disbursements made in
connection therewith amounting to $210.35.
The Court of Claims, upon the evidence, found the facts to
be as follows:
1. Claimant, Elijah B. Sherman, has been a commissioner of
the United States and chief supervisor of elections for the
Northern District of. Illinois since the year 1884, duly qualilied, and is still acting as such.
2. In connection with the Congressional election of 1888 he
performed the duties of chief supervisor of elections under the
provisions of title 26 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, known as "the elective franchise," in addition to the
duties of Circuit Court commissioner.
3. On or about the 25th day of July, 1892, the claimant
made and duly verified an account for certain services and disbursements as chief supervisor of elections in connection with
the Congressional election of 1888, to wit, for entering and
indexing the records of persons registered and of voters, being
the records of the chief supervisor's offices 61,482 folio, at 15
cents per folio, $9222.30, and for disbursements amounting to
$210.35.
4. Said account was duly presented in open court in the
Circuit Court of the United States for said district in the presence of the District Attorney of the United States for said district; said court entered an order finding that said account
was correct as to the number of folios embraced therein, and
that the item for stationery and supplies necessarily used in
making said record was correct, but declining to approve said
account or certify the correctness thereof for the reason that
said Circuit Judge thought the statute did not authorize the
work charged for by the chief supervisor.

SHERMAN v. UNITED "STATES.
Statement of the Case.

5. No part of the work done, disbursements made, or services referred to and charged for in the aforesaid account has
been included in, covered by, or embraced in- any account
made or presented to the accounting officers of the Treasury
or any other department or office of the United States other
than the account sued upon herein, and no payment has been
made for any item charged therein, and all of said service was
performed within six years before the commencement of this
suit.
6. Said account was presented to the accounting officers of
the United States Treasury Department for payment and payment thereof was refused; thereupon the First Auditor of the
Treasury, on the ground that said claim involved a controverted question of law,- certified said claim to the honorable
Secretary of the Treasury and transmitted the same to him,
together with all the vouchers, papers, documents, and proofs
pertaining thereto, that the same might be transmitted to the
Court of Claims, as provided in section 1063, Revised Statutes;
and thereupon the honorable acting Secretary of the Treasury
transmitted to this court the claim of petitioner, with all vouchers, papers, proofs, and documents pertaining thereto, to be
proceeded with in this court according to law.
T. The claimant, as chief supervisor of elections, required of
supervisors of elections lists of the persons who registered and
voted in their respective election districts or voting precincts
at said election held in November, 1888; such lists when
made were returned to and filed by him and became a part
of the records of his office; said lists were necessary for properly guarding and scrutinizing 'said election and the registration prior thereto.
8. The nature of the services described in the account in
suit was the entering and indexing of the records of persons
who registered for the purpose of voting at the election for
Representatives in Congress held in November, 1888, in the
city of Chicago, city of Lake View, village of Hyde Park,
and town of Lake, in said Northern District of Illinois, and
said index record contained the particulars relative to each
voter then required by the laws of the State of Illinois, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement of the Case.

as shown in Exhibit "A." The matter contained in said
index record was contained in the registers or lists made by
supervisors of election, and returned to claimant as chief
supervisor of elections, and which became part of the records
of his office.
9. The disbursements charged for ait for large index volumes for entering and indexing the records of the claimant's
office and for stationery and supplies necessarily used in and
about the entering and indexing of said records, amounting
to $210.35.
10. Before the services now sued for were performed the
claimant made out and presented his account as chief supervisor of elections for services rendered at the Congressional
election of 1888, in which account, and while it was in the
possession of the First Comptroller, and before it was approved by him, the claimant endorsed the following words:
"The foregoing account and claim against tha government
is presented without prejudice to my right to present hereafter a further account and claim for the services in entering
and indexing the records of my said office touching the said
election of 1888 and the registration prior thereto and for any
other services rendered by me in connection with said election
which is not included in the foregoing account and without
prejudice to the right to sue therefor."
The index so prepared of the election of 1888 was not in
fact made until after the Congressional election of 1890. It
was used by the claimant in the election of 1892, but to what
extent does not appear. The similar index of the election returns of the election of 1890 was made out before the election
of 1892, and was used in that election, and has been paid for.
On the foregoing findings of fact the court decided as a
conclusion of law:
"The services which form the cause of action in this suit
not having been rendered at the proper time, to wit, before
the Congressional election of 1890, and the defendants having,
therefore, derived no benefit from them in that election, they
must be deemed voluntary, and for them the claimant should
not recover. Petition dismissed."

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

Petitioner thereupon appealed to this court.
.Mr. Charles H. Aldricl
appellant.

and .Mr. Charles W. Needham for

The legislation in Title 26 of the Revised Statutes was
enacted to secure a fair election, at which all legal voters
should be permitted to express their choice, illegal voting be
prevented, and, as expressed in section 2018, "to the end that
each candidate for the office of representative or delegate in
Congress may obtain the benefit of every vote for him cast."
To secure these objects supervisors of election were appointed,
authorized and required to attend "at all times and places
fixed for the registration of voters, who, being registered,
would be entitled to vote for a representative or delegate in
Congress," and when required by the chief supervisor, to
make lists of such voters giving their residence and qualifications. These lists, made by the supervisors at the polling
places, and places of registration, were returned to the chief
supervisor to be preserved for future referenbe and use and
became a part of the records of his office. The value of these
records consisted largely in the fact that they could be used
in subsequent elections in detecting illegal voters, in establishing, in a degree, the right of legal voters to cast their ballots
for representatives in Congress, and also as evidence in prosecutions for illegal voting under the statute.
In Dennison v. United States, 25 C. C1. 304, the principal
item of the claim was for "entering and indexing the records
of names of persons who were tegistered and who voted for
Representatives in Congress in the several cities," etc. In the
decision of that case the court allowed that item as a legal
and proper charge for official service.
In Allen v. United States, 26 C. C1. 445, the whole subject
of the allowance for services of this kind by the chief supervisor waas carefully discussed and allowed. The case of Dennieer v. United States, in so far as it allowed the item referred
to, was approved, and upon the subject of these records and
charges, the court, in the Allen case, say: "When the books

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Argument for Appellant.

or lists of the subordinate supervisors were returned to the
chief supervisor they became the basis of a record in his
office, and with them he had a right to deal, under said sections. . . . It may be," the court say, "that some of the
information as to the voter might have been omitted consistent
with the object and purpose of the statute; but there is no
suspicion arising from the evidence in thi 3 case that the record
was made unnecessarily prolix for the purpose of accumulating fees. It is difficult to understand how a record can be
entered and indexed without spreading it at large upon some
book of the office, and the fact that the services are to be paid
for by the folio is an indication of substantial clerical work.
. . . The officers entrusted with the execution of the law
must be given some discretion in what they will embody in
the lists, and so with the chief supervisor, when the papers
reach his office he must be permitted to exercise his best judgment as to how they shall be entered and indexed, and if by
the entry of the entire list the public convenience is subserved
and the purpose of the statute accomplished, the law allows
the compensation prescribed for the service."
In passing upon a similar account of this claimant for
"entering and indexing" the records of the election of 1892,
Judge William A. Woods, Circuit Judge of the Northern District of Illinois, said: "Item thirteen is for work done in
'entering and indexing' records in the manner described in
the affidavit accompanying the account. Similar charges were
presented for the years 1888 and 1890 and reference made to
the ruling of the court thereon, that of 1888 having been
disapproved by Judge Gresham, and that of 1890 having been
approved (by myself) upon the authority of the Court of
Claims in Allen v. United States, 26 C. Cl. 445. Reference is
also made to the action of the United States Circuit Court for
Indiana upon a like charge in the account for 1890 of Mr. Van
Buren, the chief supervisor for that State. But, as is shown
by the decisions of this court in United States v. Jones, 134
U. S.483, and United States v. Poinier,140 U. S.160, the rulings and opinions of the Circuit or District Courts in passing
upon accounts presented as this is, are not judicial or conclu-

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

sive, but constitute only primafacie evidence of the correctness of the accounts, and are subject to be reviewed and disregarded by the officers of the department in aid of which the
courts are required to act. On the other hand, the decisions
of the Court of Claims are made in formal cases or suits
invoking judicial action, and consequently, unless appealed
from, are conclusive and authoritative. By the decision in
the cases mentioned, the charge in this account for entering
and indexing is justified. It is, therefore, ordered that that
item of the account be approved upon the authority of that
decision."
The only reported opinion adverse to those above referred
to is that of Judge Gresham rendered in passing upon the
account in controversy.
We submit that there can be no question as to what constitutes the records of the office of the chief supervisor under
this statute. His office is made the repository of these registers and lists returned by the supervisors of election. These
are to be preserved, but they are temporary memoranda made
by the supervisors at the polls and registering places. Conzidering the objects in view and the express statements in the
statute, it is evident that the -law contemplated that these
records should be put in some permanent and convenient form
for use in prosecutions for violation of the Elective Franchise
Act, and in determining at subseqient elections who were, and
who were not qualified voters. In this way legal voters have
some official record of their having voted, and consequently of
their right to vote at subsequent elections; illegal voters could
be easily detected, and the candidate for Congressional representatives could "obtain the benefit of every vote for him
cast."
This court in United States v. Barber, 140 U. S. 177, 178,
said, in relation to the amount of charges made for drawing
complaints: "It is evident that no iron rule can be laid down
upon the subject, that something must be left to the discretion
of the District Attorney and commissioner, and that if the complaints are not unnecessarily prolix their action should be sustained. This is a question of fact in all cases, and as the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

below has found not only in its formal approval of this account
but in its opinion upon the demurrer that no unnecessary verbiage was employed and no surplusage to increase fees, we
think the item should be alloiwed."
Applying this rule to the case at bar, it will clearly appear
that the record kept by the claimant as chief supervisor was
in every way justified.
_Mr. Assistant Attorney General "Dodgeand Mr. Sanuel A.
Putnam for appellees.
MR. JusTIcE BnqwN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The charge in question is claimed to be justified by Revised
Statutes, §§ 2026 and 2031, the material parts of which read as
follows:
"SFc. 2026. The chief supervisor shall prepare and furnish
all necessary books, forms, blanks, and instructions for the use
and direction of the supervisors of election in the several
cities and towns in their respective districts. . . . He shall
require of the supervisors of election, when necessary, lists of
the persons who may register and vote, or either, in their
respective election districts or voting precincts, and cause the
names of those upon any such lists whose right to register or
vote is honestly doubted to be verified by proper inquiry and
examination at the respective places by them assigned 'as their
residences; and he shall receive, preserve, and file . . . all
certificates, returns, reports, and records of every kind and
nature contemplated or made requisite by the provisions hereof,
save where otherwise herein specially directed."
"SEc. 2031. There shall be allowed and paid to the chief
supervisor, for his services as such officer, the following compensation, apart from and in excess of all fees allowed by law
for the performance of any duty as Circuit Court commissioner: for filing and caring for every return, report, record,
document, or other paper required to be filed by him under

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

any of the preceding provisions, ten cents; for affixing a seal
to any paper, record, report, or instrument, twenty cents; for
entering and indexing the records of his office, fifteen cents
per folio.

.

.

.

And the fees of the chief supervisors shall

be paid at the 'reasury of the United States, such accounts
to be made out, verified, examined, and, certified as in the case
of accounts of commissioners, save that the examination or
certificate required may be made by either the Circuit or District Judge."
Under the first section, it is a matter for the chief supervisor
to determine whether it be "necessary" to require of the supervisors of election lists of the persons who may register and
vote, etc., and his discretion in this particular is not subject to
review. When these lists are returned to him, he is required
to "receive, preserve, and file" them as "certificates, returns,
reports, or records," and by section 2031, "for filing and caring for" such "return, report, record, document, or other
paper" he is entitled to ten cents. Is he, however, under the
name of "entering and indexing the records of his office,"
entitled to fifteen cents per folio for making a complete copy
of such returns, and arranging them in alphabetical order after
they have been properly filed as records of his office ?
The object of the statutes concerning the elective franchise,
now embodied in Title XXVI of the Revised Statutes, was as
declared in the title to the act of May 31, 1870, c. 114, 16 Stat.
140: "To enforce the rights of citizens of the United States to
vote in the several States of this Union, and for other purposes,"
-among which was undoubtedly the preservation of the purity
of elections, and the obtaining of an honest expression of opinion from each individual voter. For this purpose the judge of
the Circuit Court was required, upon the petition of a certain
number of citizens of any city or town having upwards of
20,000 inhabitants or of any county or parish in any Congressional district, making known their desire to have the registration or election guarded and scrutinized, to open the Circuit
Court at the most convenient point in the circuit (§ 2011); to
appoint and commission, from day to day, two citizens from
each voting precinct, to be known and designated as supervis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

ors of elections, (§ 2012,) who were required to attend at the
registration of the voters, to challenge voters and supervise
the registry, to make lists of the -oters when required, (§ 2016,)
to attend at the election, to supervise the manner in which the
voting was done, (§ 2017,) to canvass each ballot, and generally
to see that the election and canvass were fairly conducted, and
to make return of their doings to the chief supervisor (§ 2018).
By § 2021, the marshal for the district was required, upon the
application in writing of a certain number of citizens, to
appoint a certain number of deputy marshals to aid and assist
the supervisors in the verification of any lists of voters, and to
attend the registration and election.
By § 2025, the Circuit Court was required to appoint, from
among the Circuit Court commissioners, a chief supervisor,
who should serve so long as he faithfully and capably discharged the duties imposed upon him.
From this brief recapitulation of the prominent provisions
of the title, it is evident that no permanent system for the
carrying on of Congressional elections was intended to be
established. The act was to be operative only in particular
cases, when upon petition filed by the required number of citizens the Circuit Court was authorized to appoint supervisors,
who attended that election, at the conclusion, of which they
becamefuncti oJflcio. No system for the permanent registration of voters was contemplated, simply because the exigencies which dictated the appointment of supervisors for a
particular election might not exist at the next or any subsequent election. No permanent official is provided for, except
a chief supervisor in each judicial district, who served without
regular salary and acted only when the electoral machinery
was put in motion, prior to any election, by the petition of the
requisite number of voters. No permanent records were contemplated, and without a system of registration like that
obtaining in many of the States, none would be of any value,
since persons who are disqualified at one election by reason of
minority, alienage, non-residence, or other cause, might, when
the next election took place, become legal and competent
voters. So, those who are this year qualified may possibly,

SHERMAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

-

either by removal from their present residence, by insanity,
conviction of crime, or other cause, become disqualified the
next year. The laws of the several States usually recognize
the fact that a person, whose name appears upon the registry
of a certain precinct, is presumed to be qualified at the next
election in that precinct.. But even if a complete registration
of voters were made by the chief supervisor, no such presumption would follow, since it is the State and not the general government which prescribes the qualification of voters.
It was never the design of the act that Congress should determine who should vote-at any election, or interfere with laws of
the State in that regard, but only to protect those who were
entitled to vote by the laws of the State in the exercise of the
elective franchise. It would, therefore, have been entirely
Ssuperfluous to provide for a permanent registry of voters to
be kept by the chief supervisor. The state registration is
presumed to answer all requirements in that particular.
So, too, a registry of voters, to be of any value, must be
kept at the polling places in each precinct, in order that, as
each voter presents himself, reference may instantly be made
to the list to ascertain his qualifications. Hence the list made
by the claimant, to serve any useful purpose, would have to
be either printed or copied for use in each precinct- involving of course an enormous expense. But even this would
have been of little value, since each precinct is concerned only
with its own voters, and a list of 61,282 folios, containing the
names of probably double that number of voters, would be
so long as to be practically useless for ready and immediate
reference. Add to this the fact that thousands of changes are
made at each election, and that the services in question were
not completed until July, 1892, nearly four years after the
election took place, and it will be seen that the list made by
the claimant could have been of no possible value to the government- of no more value than a city directory published
four years- after the compilation of names is made. The
index, so prepared by him after the election of 1888, was not
in fact made until after the., Congressional election of 1890,
and was never used until the election of 1892. To what

OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

extent it was so used does not appear. It seems, too, that a
similar index of the election returns of the election of 1890
was made out before the election of 1892, was used in that
election, and has been paid for.
It is claimed, however, that if the statute requires or authorizes the work to be done, the claimant ought not to be held
responsible for the fact that the transcript was of no value, or
to lose his compensation for that reason. Assuming that section 2026 vests him with a discretion to require of the supervisors lists of the voters when in his opinion it is necessary,
and that section 2031 authorizes and perhaps requires him to
file and care for such lists, there is certainly no requirement
that he make a copy of such lists. The entering and indexing
the records of his office, for which he is entitled to recover 15
cents per folio, would evidently be complied with by his filing
such returns, and indexing them in the name of the supervisor
making the return; and even if the services performed by
him in copying and rearranging the names upon these returns
could be construed as "entering and indexing" them, it was a
service of such manifestly disproportionate value to the cost
thereby incurred, that we think it could never have been contemplated by the statute. The claimant should have recognized this fact, and before putting the government to the very
large expense of this transcript, he should have been able to
point to some statute requiring it to be done in language free
from ambiguity.
The very magnitude of the expense incurred should have
put the claimant upon inquiry as to the propriety of th-t service. He has no right to plunge the government into an expense of some $10,000 upon a doubtful interpretation of the
law, especially when he is apprised of the fact that the service
performed must have been of little or no value to the government. The index which he prepared for the election of 1890,
and for which he was paid, covered every possible use for
which the index he now charges for could have been made
available. It is of no more value than a directory for a certain year issued after a directory for a subsequent year has
been published and put upon the market.

McKNIGHT v. JAMES.
Statement of the Case.

We do not wish to be understood as imputing any bad faith
to the plaintiff in this particular, as there are undoubtedly
decisions, even of the Court of Claims, which uphold charges
of this description, Dennison v. United States, 25 C. Cl. 304;
-Allen v. United States, 26 0. Cl. 445; and the department seems
to have paid many of these accounts without question since
these decisions. We are, however, clear in our opinion that
the service is not one within the spirit or the letter of the
statute; that the Circuit Judge was right in refusing to approve the account; and that the allowance of other accounts of
a similar nature works no estoppel upon the government. If
there be any estoppel at all it 'is against the claimant, who
has already been paid for a similar service performed since
the transcript in question was made.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is, therefore,
Affinmed.

MoKNIGHT v. JAMES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO FOR THE
SECOND JUDICIAL CIRCUIT.
No. 841. Argued and submitted December 19, 1894. -Decided

January 14,1895.

A writ of error will not go from this court to an order of a judge of a
Circuit Court of a State, made at chambers, remanding a prisoner in a
habeas corpus proceeding.

TIs proceeding was begun by a petition in habeas corpus
to the circuit court of Franklin County, Ohio, setting forth
that the petitioner McKnight was unlawfully deprived of his
liberty in the Ohio penitentiary, under a certificate of sentence
of the court of common pleas of Wood County, for the crime
of forgery. Petitioner charged that there was no judgment or
sentence authorizing such certificate; that the same was therefore void, and said imprisonment without legal authority, and
without due process of law.

