OCTOBER TERM, 1894.
Statement.

We think that the Circuit Court, in view of all these considerations, did not err in its conclusion, and, therefore, its
decree is
-Afirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BROWN took no part in the decision of this case.

SOUTI
ERROR

CAROLINA v. WESLEY.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 796. Submitted December 10, 1894. -Decided

January 7, 1595.

W. brought an action in the Circuit Court for the District of Soutb Carolina to recover possession of a lot of land. The defendants set up that
they held for that State and had no individual rights in the premises.
The Attorney General of the State, the day before the cause came on
for trial, filed a suggestion that the property in controversy was used by
the State for public uses, and, without submitting the rigits of the
State to the jurisdiction of the court, moved the dismissal of the proceedings for want of jurisdiction. The record did not show that the
averments in the suggestion were either proved or admitted. The trial
resulted in a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. After the verdict
and before the entry of judgment the court overruled the motion of the
Attorney General. The record showed no bill of exceptions to this ruling, but it appeared by agreement of counsel that the motion was overruled and exception taken. The State sued out this writ of error. Reld,
(1) That the course pursued below as to the suggestion by the Attorney
General could not be recognized as regular and sufficient;
(2) That as the record did not show that the averments of the suggestion were either proved or admitted, the Circuit Court could not
properly arrest the proceedings;
(3) That as the State was not a party to the record, and refused to submit to the jurisdiction of the court, its writ of error should be
dismissed.
Reference cannot properly be made to a transcript of record in a case
pending in another court, to supply defects in the record of a case in
this court.
MOTION

to dismiss.

The case is stated in the opinion.

SOUTH CAROLINA v. WESLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Robert TV. Shand for the motion.
.r. Samuel F. Melton opposing.
MR.
court.

CHIEF JUSTICE

FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

This was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of South Carolina by Edward B.
Wesley, a citizen of the State of New York, against J. E.
Tindal and J. R. Boyles, citizens of the State of South Carolina, to recover the possession of a certain lot of land situated
in the city of Columbia and State of South Carolina. The
answer of defendant Tindal comprised a general denial of
the allegations of the complaint, and, as a second defence, the
averment that the property was in the custody of the defendant as the Secretary of State of the State of South Carolina
and that he as an individual had no right, title, interest, or
estate to or in the premises of any kind whatsoever. The
answer of defendant Boyles, in addition to the general denial,
set up that he was engaged in the employment of the Secretary of State in watching, guarding, and taking care of the
premises on behalf of the State.
The action was brought to trial April 4, 1894, and resulted
in a verdict for plaintiff April 7,1894, upon which judgment
for the recovery of possession, and costs, was entered May 7,
1894. On April 3, 1894, the following suggestion was filed:
"And now comes 0. W. Buchanan, Attorney General of the
State of South Carolina, and suggests to the court and gives
it to understand and be informed that the pSroperty in controversy in this action is held, occupied, and possessed through
its officer and agent charged in behalf of the State of South
Carolina with the custody and control of the property by
virtue of the statute in such case made and provided and
who is custodian of the same for and in the name of the
State of South Carolina, which said property is now used by
the State of South Carolina for public uses. Wherefore, without submitting the right of the State to the jurisdiction of

OCTOBER TERAN, 1894.
Opinion of the Court.

the court, but respectfully insisting that the court has no
jurisdiction of the subject in controversy, he moves that the
complaint in said action be set aside and all the proceedings
be stayed and dismissed and for such other orders as may be
proper in the premises."
April 16, 1894, an order was filed by the Circuit Judge overruling the motion of the Attorney General "to dismiss the
proceedings for want of jurisdiction," and giving his reasons
in that behalf. On the application of the Attorney General of
the State of South Carolina, a writ of error to review the
order of April 16, 1894, was allowed June 18.
It is difficult to deal with such a record as this. The order
of April 16 was entered nine days after the return of the
verdict, and appaiently no exception was preserved to its
entry. What passed upon the trial does not appear, as no bill
of exceptions was taken, and it is only by resort to an agreement of counsel, dated July 12, 1894, that it can be ascertained that the Circuit Judge declined upon the trial to accede
to the suggestion and that exception was taken. By the same
stipulation the charge to the jury is inserted in the record,
and we are referred to that for information as to the controversy. We cannot recognize the course pursued in this regard
as regular and sufficient.
In addition, the record does not show that the averments of
the suggestion were either proved or admitted, and it certainly
cannot be contended that the Circuit Court ought to have
arrested proceedings on a mere suggestion.
United3
States v.
Peters, 5 Cranch, 115; The Exchange, 7 Cranch, 116; Osborn
v. Bankc of the -nited States, 9 Wheat. 738; United States v.
Lee, 106 U. S.196; Stanley v. Schwalby, 147 U. S.508.
Our attention is called to the transcript of the record in the
case of Tindal v. ]1esley, pending on error in the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, attached to the
brief of counsel for the State, but reference cannot properly
be had to a transcript of the record in a case -pending in
another court to supply defects in the record of a case in this
court. If we could take notice of it, however, the pendency
of that writ of error would-afford an additional reason, if this

WESTMORELA-ND v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

were a matter within our discretion, why We ought not to
retain the case and affirm the order on the ground of want of
error when the record is insufficient to present the question
sought to be raised. And, although not discretionary, we are
relieved from the necessity of reaching that result.
The error assigned is as follows: "For that his honor erred
in not dismissing the case upon the suggestion of the Attorney
General of South Carolina that this is really an action against
said State, brought without her consent, the defendants denying having possession of the property in suit and claiming to
have custody of said property for the said State, said State
not being a party to the record, though a party in fact, the
alleged cause of action being contractual in its nature, in that
whatever rights the plaintiff has are derived from his contract
with the State and the property involved in this litigation
being claimed by the State." The State does not complain
that it was refused leave to intervene, but that the Circuit
Court without the intervention of the State refused merely
upon suggestion to dismiss the complaint against the defendants who were sued as individuals. The State was not a party
to the record in the Circuit Court and did not become a party
by intervention, pro interese suo or otherwise, but expressly
refused to submit its rights to the jurisdiction of the court.
This being so, the motion to dismiss may well be sustained on
that ground. United States v. Lee, 106 U. S.196, 197; Geo.gia
v. Jesuy,"106 U. S. 458.
WUit of error
dismissed.

WESTMORELAND v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No-765.

Submitted December 10, 1894.-Decided January 7, 1S95.

An averment in an indictment for murder that the defendant is "a white
person and not an Indian" is sufficient to show that he is outside of the
first two. clauses of Rev. Stat. ยง 2146.
VOL. CLv-85

