z44
Wirevzs.
TEL

HACK-,E?.

SUPREME COURT V. S.

current between himself, and he defendant in which thoplainti hadcredited the defendant, as being in the plaintiff's hands for collectionfor the proceeds of a certain quanStity of~flour which he had sold for the defendant, but
had afterwards charged 'to the defendant several sums on
account of the alleged insolvency of some of the purchasers of -the'said flour. It also appeared, that in the ac.count current, and accounts of sales, the proceeds of sale
bf the said flour were stated to be outstanding, subject to
collection, and the plaintiff-did not undertake to guarantee
the debts.' Whereupon the defendant, in order to repel
that evidence, offered to prove that the sums so charged to
the defendant were lost by the inismanageinentandmisconduct,of the paintif in having made the sbles to persons
known by him to be unworthy of credit; but the court re.fusid to peinit'such proof to be made to the jury in this
action, being of opinion that such miscondu'ct was properly to be inquired into in a suit for that purpose.
This case1oeing submitted trithoutargument,4 he judvient Oas afirmed, with costs. "

R

v.

LAMAR
OTHRES.

.LY .RtILY; AtiPELLANT v. -LAMAR, BEALL,

AND SMITH, APPELLEES.

&

" THIS was an appeal by Reiy from a decree of.the cir-

Th inhabit. cuit court of'the district of -Columbia,' which dismissed
The
ant, of the cyis. his bill in equity with costs.
trict of Co.
umbia, by its . Th defendant, "Bea, sJme time in the year 1 '89 or
teates -790 had brought suit in the name of Lamar, for the use
of Virginia
of Beall, by *RobertSmith, his. attorney at law, against

and Mai7Iand, Reil, the appellant, upon a note for 400 dollars, and recesed to be coveredjudgment in the 'ener'al court of Maryland.
citizens of
thosie states

respectively. " The bill stated that during the pendency of that suit; the
By the insol, corpplainant Reily, supposing that. Smith was filly au-

ventlaw ofMa. th6rised to receive payrnent of the debt in any manner he
3d.
of
.theyshould think propert pold him a tract of 4600 acres of lidd
18a0,thechan. in the state of Georgia, for the sum of 1533 dollars, for
htdetadsm
ceflor of
Ma. the express purpose of discharging tht
debt and some
couian
ryiad
mot ald Chld others which Reily owed in ]3altifoiore.- That in settling
a Citizen of

with Smith for the purchase money of the land, the amount

FEBRUARY, 1805.

345

of that debt was deducted and left in the hands of
Sinith to be paid to Beall under a promise from Smith
that he would have the entry made upon the records of

RaEiy
T.

LAMAR&
OT

the court that the debt was satisfied. And after deduct.: k
ing also the amotint of other debts which Smith undertook Marylnd vho
to pay for Reily, Smith paid him the balance by a check resided in the
of
on the bank, being about 17 dollars. That thus the mat- district
Columbia
at
ter rested unil the year 1799 or 1800, when being called the time of iti

on by Beall for payment, Reily applied to Smith to know separation
why the debt had not been paid, who replied that it had from mary.
been-delaied in consequence of a dispute between one land, unless
fohn Lynn, to whom the note had been indorsed, and the complied with
said Beall as to which of them was entitled to the money; all
the requlbut that it had been settled by reference that Beall should sites of the in.
have it; and that Reily might remain easy, for he should as o entite

not be called on again for payment.

That Reily inform- himsel to a

ed Beallthat he had paid the amount tp Smith, and that discharge be,
Beall, had acknowledged to several persons that he was sa- fore that sepa-

tisfied the fact wasso, and had employed coimsel to rgration.
tdbring
QIere, whe.
suit against Smith for the money. That Smith had char- ther a person
ged Reily with the said debt in his books, and that Reily who has ne"
had seen the entry in Smth's own hand-writing, and prayslaw
to pleadthis

that the book may be produced.

discharge un.

der an insol.

That after the said judgmaent ,was Irendered, viz. on 'ent act, can

the

d ofjanuar, 1800,the legislature of Maryland pass-

imself

ed an insolvent law, in favour of Reily, and others, and ofit inequity.
on the 2O3dofDecember, 1800, he conveyed all his estate
to a trustee agreeably to the law, for the use of all his creditors, and that onthe 4th of April, 1801, the chancellor
of Maryland granted him a certificate of.discharge, (a copy of which is made part of the bill) whereby it was adjudged andfordered that he should be discharged from all
debts, covenantsi contracts, promises, and agreements due
from or owing or contracted by him, before the aforesaid
23d day of December, 1800, provided that any property
which he had acquired since the execation of the said deed,
or should acquire by descent, or in his own right by bequest, devise, or in a course of distribution should be liable for the payment of his said debts. That awrit ofscire
facias having issued sometime in the year 1800i .tO revive
the said judgment, Reilq instructed, his attorney at law to
plead the said discharge in bar thereof, whichie'neglected
to do, without any'default on the part of Reily. - That all
the property he possessed was duly de-vered. up to the
_IV'

SUPREME COURT U. S.
REMYr

trustee at the time of executing the deed of trust, and that

V.LAARall the property now in his possession was a devise, or the

OTHERS,

%upon

proceeds of a devise to his wife. That execution having,
the scirefaciasaforesaid, beep awarded by the general courtof Maryland, an exemplification of thatjudgment
had been by the said Beall filed in the clerk's office of the
circuit court of the district of.Columbia, for the county of
Alexandria, and execution issued thereon, with intent to
levy the same upon the goods, and effects held by Reilyi
in the right of his wife, to stay which, and all other proceedings at law, the bill prayed an injunction, &c.
Beall, in his answer, stated, .that he had never received
any parf of the money either from Reily, or Smith, who,
he admits, was his attorney, in the suit against Reily.Thit Smith denied that Reily had ever paid him the mohey, and that Beall had no knowledge, otherwise than by
the information of Reify, that the same had been so paid.
But that some time.after the original judginent was obtained against Reify, Smith told - Bealr'that if lie would
make to him, the said Smith, a 'handsome discount upon
the said judgment, lie would pay him the money for the
same, which Beall refused to do. He admits, that for
some time he did believe, and had declared his belief, that
Reily had paid the money to Smith, and under that impresnion had given instructions to an attorney to examine
into the business, and bring suit against Smith, or Reily as
-he should judge best; but he nev er positively adnlitted
the fact to be so, nor has he intimated such an opinion
since he has seen Smith's answer. He does not admit
that Reily had ever regularly and legally obtained the benefit of any insolvent law of Maryland, nor that he instructed his attorney to plead-his discharge-but that if he did,
the attorney was able to pay any damages which Reily
might sustain by his negligence. That the plea would be
a good plea at law, and therefore the complainant could not
resort to equity for that benefit which he had lost by his
negligence. He admits that it appears by the proceedings
that the deed from Reiley to his trustee under the insolvent* law for the benefit of his creditors Was dated on the
23d of December, 1800, and his discharge'on the 4th of
April, 1801, during all which time Reily lived either in
the city of Washington, or town of Alexandria, and contends that as the court below had determined that the j'urisdiction of Maryland and Virginia over the ceded terri-

FEBRUARY, 1805.
tory ceased on the 1st Monday of December, 1800, the
RXIL"V
legislature or chancellor of Maryland had no power to LAMA &
pass such law, or give such discharge to the said Reily. o,,,RS.
He does not admit that the property now held by Reily is %.ie-.mt./
held in right of his wife.
The answer of the defendant, Smith, admits that as attorney for Beall he brought the suit against Reily, and
that he purchased of him, as he then imagined, a certain
parcel of land, consisting of 4600 acres, represented by
Reily to be in the state of. Georgia, af the price of two
shillings and six pence current money of Maryland per
acre, amounting for the whole to the sum of 1533 dollars
and 33 cents: but denies that in making that,.purchase he
undertook or assumed for Reily to pay the debt to Beal,
and that Reily ever left inhis hands any money for that
purpose, and that he (Smith) ever promised to have an
entry made on the records that the debt was satisfied.The answer then avers that Smith had availed himself of
all the means in his power to obtain satisfactory information respedting the title, and even of the existence of the
Georgia land, and that failing irfall his various attempts,
he has reason to believe, and does believe, that he did not
acquire any titl
He denies that he ever told Reily that
the payment of the debt by him (Smith) had been delayed
in consequence of any dispute, and that he gave Nelly any
ground tq believe or imagine that he (Smith) intended to
pay the saiddebt or any part of it. That he never charged
Reily in any account against him with the amount, or with
any part of the debt, and that no part of the purchase money was ever deducted to pay the debt. It avers also that
Smith in the years 1790, 1791, and 1792 did not keep any
book.of money accounts Whatever, except a bank book, nor
any kind of book of accounts wherein such an entry could
with propriety have been made, and that there never was
in his possession, or kept by him such a book of accounts
as the said Reily has alleged. The answer does not state
that Smith has in any manner paid Reily for the lands.
The copy of the chancellor's certificate of discharge,
referred to in Reily's bill, states the date of the deed
from Reily to his trustee, to be the 23d of March 1801,
and not the 23d of D.-ecember 1800, as alleged in thebill
and admitted in Beall's answer.

SUPREME -COURT U. S.
REMY

T. .

The deed.from Reily.to Smith for the Georgia lands,
aid also i deed of quit claim from Cobbs (from whom
ARelty
"
purchased them) to Smith, and the surveyor's plat
and certificate of survey, were produced in evidence.
The depositions tended to prove that -Smith had receivcd from Georgja,.'ery farourable accotints of-the Georgia land, and.of the goodness. of the title ; and that the
lends R-erf. Wgith a dollar pdr acre. That he had said,
as late as June or July 1801, that at the time of his
purchase from Relly, it was understood that any debts
due-from Reily, which Smith should satisfy, were to be
admitted as payment for the -land'; that believing at
that time that'he had made a.valuable purchase, he did
pay some debts and offered to pay others,.if the creditorp
would make abatements. That by the contract he was
at fuU liberty to settle any debt due from Reily, in the
easiest and most ad7"antageous way to himself ; that he
deiled that he had engaged to- pay any particulardebt,
but that he was to discharge the putchase money, by
purchasing or satisfying claims against.Relly in any way
he found best. That he offered, to pay Beall the debt
Reily owed him, if Beall would allow a handsome dis.count, but that Beall had refused to do so, and the con..versation ceased. That he had not received any satisfactory information respecting the Georgia lands, and
feared he had made an incautious, purchase, and that
the lands did not exist. He regretted that he had, paid
any thing; and said that he had. offered Reily the lands
again upon receiving what he -had paid, which Reily declined. That h. only wanted to be satisfied that there.
was such land as he had bought of Reily, and tht he
had title, and the business should be settled immediately
with him ; but that the business- between Reily and
Beall, was out of the question between him and Reily.
'Ihe evidence as to Bealt, only went to prove that he
had several times, expressed a belief that Reily had settled the debt with Smith.
At February Term, 1804, a preliminary question was
suggested by Mason'for the appellees, whether a citatiol
was not necessary in cases of appeals, as well as in cases
of writs, of error, under the 22d section of the judiciary act of 1789, vol. 1, p. 62.

FEBRUARY;* 186t.

S49

.i7farshall, Ch. Y. The question turns upon the con.
o vol. 6,p. 315.
sttuction of the act of March 3d 183,
The words are, " and that such appeals shall be sub.
" ject to the same rule, regulations and restrictions as
" are prescribed in law in case of writs of error."
.E. .". Lee, for appellant. The reason for a citation
in cases of writs of error, does not apply to cases of
appeal. Where the appeal is prayed and granted in the
court below, the parties are bound"to take notice of it.

MAfason, in answer to a question from the chief jus.
tice, stated that he conceived, that an appeal might be
allowed at any time within five years, in the same man-.
tier as writs of error. The words of the last act of
congress upon the subject are peremntory, "appeals
Sslall be subject," &c.
If there is no citation, the appeal cannot be a super.
sedeas, but perhaps the want-of * citation is- not a sfafficient ground to dismiss the appealOn -a subsequent day in the same Terr'ni the .chief
justice stated itto be the opinion of the court, that the
appeal having bedn prayed, pending the- court below, -a
citation is not necessary ; and therefore, the case is properly before the court.
February6th 1805. The case was now argued by
E. 7. Lee, and C.' ee, for the appellant, and by Mason.
for the appellee.*
E. 7'.Lee. If the plalntiff'd attorney at laiw, make
a contract with the defendant, by which the plaintiff's
demand is.
satisfied, it binds his client. So he may
leave the matter to reference, and the client will be
bound by the award; The answers of Smith and Beall
0 E. .Lee, being asked by the court, for a statement of the case

agreeable to the rule of court, -alleged that it was not in his power to
inake i statdnent "as itwas a question asto the weight of.testimony on,
contradictory evidence .n'
-Mars
al, Ch. Y. The court require a statement of the case, even
though the question is a question of act ;-at least the substance of the
bill and answer, and the fact which are in contet,,might be stated.

Rz-tv
v.
oTEE-.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RFLY
V.2
OTHERS.

are contradicted in a material point, and the rule in
equity is,that ifthe defendant's answer is false ina
material point, it shall not be taken to be true in the re~ sidue. Mr..Smith's answer, states that he has availed
himself of all opportunities of ascertaining the title, nay
the existence of the land.
Robert Long's deposition shews this to be incorrecft
Beall's answer states that he never did aver that
Reily .had paid the money to Smith. This is contradicted by Lloyd BealPs deposition.
-Another ground of equity on the. part of the appella:nt, is- his discharge under the insolvent act of Maryland.' He is not precluded from setting it up in equity,
because his attorney neglected to plead it at law. No
fraud is alleged -orsuggested in obtaining it; but it is
stated, .that the discharge was after the district of Columbia was separated from Maryland, 'and that upon
that separation, Reily living in the city.of Washington,
ceased to be a citizen of Maryland; and that as the
act directs, that the chancellor shall be satisfied that the
person applying to him for a discharge, was, and is a
citizen of Maryland, and as the legislature could" not
authorise the discharge of a person from his debts, who
should not be at the time of the discharge a citizen of
Maryland, the discharge was not valid and regular.
But the act of Maryland was passed before the
change of jurisdiction,, and the discharge was only a
consequence of what was begun while the legislature
had jurisdiction. By the act of session by Maryland,
and the act of acceptance by congress, it is provided
that the operation of the laws of the state,. should no.t
cease nor be affected by the acceptance until the time
fixed for the removal of the government, and until congfess shall otherwise by law provide.
The time appointed for the removal of the government, was the 1st Monday of December 1800, but congress did not provide by law for the government of the
district of -Columbia, until the 27th of February 1801.
The insolvent act passed on the 3d of.January 1800.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
On the 15th of April 1800, the chancellor passed an order that Reily give notice to his creditors, to appear on
the 3d of November 1800, on which day, notice having
been given, the oath of an insolvent debtor was admin-.
istered to Riily by the chancellor, and a trustee appointed. On.the 23d of December 1800, Reily conveyed
all his property to the trqstee, who on the same day
gave bond for the faithful performance of the trust, and
a receipt for the effects. Thus every thing was done
by Reily on his part, to entitle hiifi to a discharge before
the operation of the law of Maryland ceased. The
chancellor therefore, having the cause before him, and
having once had jurisdiction, could not be deprived of
it by the separation of the territory.
If a crime had been committed within the district of
Columbia 'before the 27th of .Februari, 1801, it must
have been'piunished according to the state law of that
part of the district in which'it was comi mitted. Besides, it is worth consideration whether, as' the
debt was due to Beall, who always remained a citizen of
Maryland, it might not be barred by an act of the legislature of Maryland, notwithstanding the debtor had
ceased to be a citizen.
'The words of the insolvent act (November session,
1799_) c. 88, passed Yanuary 3d, 1800, ยง 3, are"
3. And be it enacted, That no person herein before
mentioned, shall be entitled to the benefit of any of the
provisions of this act, unless the chaicellor shall be satisfied, by competent testimony, that he is, and at the time
of passing this act was, a citizen of the United States, and
of this state, and unless, at the time of presenting his petition as aforesaid,. he shall produce to the chancellor the
assent, inwriting, of so many of his creditors as have due
to them the amount of two thirds of the debts due by him
at the time of the passing of this act; provided, that foreign creditors, not residing in the -United States, and
not having agents or- attornies residing therein, duly empowered to act in their behalf, shall not be considered
within the intent and meaning of this clause ; and provided also, that the chancellor may; wthout the as sent of

Rzxxy
V.

LAmAit &

oTNHLKS

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the creditors as aforesaid, from time to time order to be
discharged, from custody any of the said petitioners who
may be in actual confinement; in -irtue ofanyprocess issued, or that may be'issued, 'in *pursuance"ofany debt at
this time due-and owing by him, which discharge ishereby declared to be a release only -ofthe person of such debtor, but not of his property, unless the assent in writing of

lkztr!Y
LAXAV.

LTHERS

%

two thirds in value of the. creditors as aforesaid be ob-

tained.!'

'

-

It was only necessary that the chancellor should be

satisfied that :Riily was a citizen of Maryland at the
time of passing, the -act, and.at the time of his application to the hanicellor for its benefit and these facts are
not denied.
Mason--contra.

There are only two questions in this cause.
1. Has Reily any equity on ihe ground of having-paid
the judgment.? - โข
2. Has he'any equity on the ground of being released
by the act of assembly?

1. It is admitted -thathe has an equity if all the facts
stated in the bill are true. But the bill itself is not evidence.
The answers -ofSmith and Beall deny all the equitaMle facts, and there is no eVidence to prove them.

-

The controversy is really between Reily and Smithfor it is not alleged that Beall has been satisfied, unless
the phyment to Srith is proved, andbinds Beall. But
-as the evidence does not prove a paymenit to Smith, there
is an end of the first point.

-

2; 'As to the discharge uxder the insolvent law.
It is a jirinciple that if a man has a defence at law anid
waives it, he shall not avail himself of it in equit. This
is a defence which peculiarly requires that it should have

FEBRUARY, 1805.

355

been pleaded at law. The plea would have embraced all
the facts which were necessary to shew thathe was regularly discharged, any of which the plaintiff might have
traversed and put in issue.
The bill alleges he was regularly discharged. The
answer denies it and puts him upon the proof. How has
he proved it ? By the chancellor's certificate only; and
that was made on the 10th of April, 1801, when, according to the allegations in the bill, he was not a citizen
of Maryland, but of the district of Columbia.
The bill states, that the property on which the feri
facias was levied, was a devise to his wife, or the proceeds thereof.
The answer denies it, and there is no proof.
The bill charges, that he directed his attorney at law
to plead the discharge. The answer denies it, and there
is no proof, although the attorney himself was examined
as a witness for the complainant.
Having removed from the city of Washington to Alexandria, which is subject to different laws, the discharge could not avail him there.
There is no evidence that Beall was a citizen of Maryland, and therefore the argument that the legislature
of Maryland might bar him from a recovery of the'debt;.
although Reily should not appear to be a citizen, does
not apply.
Chase, J. Would not the proper remedy be, by
motion, to discharge the property taken on the feri fa.
cias, if it appeared to be property which came to the
wife by devise?
E. 7. Lee. Although that might be done, yet it is
not the only remedy. It might be too late on the return
of the execution, when the property might be sold.
-ffarshall,C. J. Could the court have gone on to
decree Smith to pay the' money to Reily, and dismiss

Yy

RZILY
V.
o

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RVILY

v*

LAMAR &
OTHERS.

1

u

n

the bill as to Beall? Was the cause in such a state that
this could be done ?
C. Lee and Mason admitted that they might.
Chase, J. Can an attorney at law, by a contract for
the purchase of land to himself, bind his client ?
C. Lee, in reply. We do not. contend for the principle
to that extent ; but if Beall assented to the payimtnt to the
attorney in that way, it would bind him in equity. So if
the attorney has the money of the debtor in hc hands, and
upon a settlement with the debtor, the attorney retains the
debt of his client, and gives the debtor a check for.the balance, the client is bound. If Smith did undertake to settle this debt-it binds Beall. But if not, yet Reily has a
claim against Smith, and the court below ought not to
have dismissed the bill as against him. There is no doubt
of Reily's equity as to Smith. He does not even allege
that he ever paid Reily for the lands.. Ife has not produced the bank book, as he was required to do, which would
have shewn the check of 121 dollars.
As to the discharge under the insolvent act; if it-was
good in Maryland, it was good in every part of the United States.
That it was obtained fairly, legally, and regularly, arpears
from the certificate itself; which is at least prima facie
evidence of those circumstances; and the contrary must
be proved if alleged: 1 Dal. 229, Millar v. HalK The
present case is stronger thn that of Alillar and Hall; because here both parties were citizens of Maryland, but in
that, 2Villar was a citizen of Pennsylvania.
There is certainly an error in the copy of the certificate
of discharge filed in this case, in stating the deed of Reily
to his trustee to be dated the 2'd of March, instead of the
2:d of Decem ber; for the'certificate of the trustee, by which
he acknowledges the receipt of all the ffects of Reily, is
dated on the 23d of December, and so is the trustee's bond.
If the deed was executed on the 23d of December, the
case is clear of all doubt, for the inhabitants oi that part of
the district of Columbia which was ceded by Maryland,

FEBRUARY, 1805.
remamed citizens of Maryland, and subject to all her laws,
ubitil the 27th of February, 1801, when congress first provided by law for the government of the district. Laws of
UnitedStates, 1 vol.p. 132-Resolve of Maryland,1788
Laws of Maryland, November, 1791, c. 45, ยง 2-Laws
of United States, 5 vol. p. 268.

rhe words of the insolvent act are, that the chancellor
shall be satisfied that the petitioner "is and was," at the
time bf-passing the act, a citizen of the state of Maryland.
If the chancellor is satisfied that he was, at the time of passing the act, and. is, at the time the petition is presented
to him, a citizen of Maryland, it is sufficient. But it is
not necessary in this case to confine the time to the presenting the petition; we may admit the proper time to be
the date of the deed to his trustee. "The discharge has relation to that time. So in the-case of bankrupts, th certificate relates to the time of doing the act of bankruptcy;
although the granting of it may be deferred for along time.
The insolvent law of Maryland.is to be considered as a
bankrupt law. So says judge M'Kean in the case of A2fllar and Hall.
The 4th article of the constitution of the United
States declares that, "full faith and credit shall be given,
"in each state, to the public acts, records, and judi"cial proceedings of every other state." Aud -the ci"tizens of each state shall be entitled to all privileges
"and immunities of citizens in the several states." Reily being, for aught that appears to the contrary, a natural born citizen of Maryland, could not be deprived of
his right of citizenship by the transfer of jurisdiction.
He might cease to be an inhabitant, but could not cease
to be a citizen.
The situation of Reily is unhappy indeed, if he is not
protected by his discharge. He cannot recal the deed
which he made of all his effects to the use of his creditors.
His property is gone. And if the insolvent laws of the
several states are not to be respected, perpetual imprisonment may be the consequence.
The court below ought to have contlued the injunction
as to all the property of Reily, exdept such as came to him
in his own right by devise, bequest or in the course of

RZILY

V.

OTHE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
RzxT.Y
LA V.
'tion

distribuition. But if Reily has paid Smith, and that paymeit can be ajplied to Beall, then the injunction ought to
be general and perpetual. At any rate a general dissoluof the injunction was erroneous.

2'bfason, contra. If Reily has been discharged und,-,
the insolvent act, and has transferred all his estate an,.
effects to his trustee, the court below could not have decreed Smith to pay the money to Reilj. The right of a,
tion was not in him, but in the trustee.
The insolvent law in the present case is a special law for
the benefit of certain persons by name, and Reily must
shew that he has complied with all the requisites. of th,
acts in as full a manner as if he had pleaded at law.
There is no clause in the act making the chancellor's ce.
tificate p'ima facie evidence of a compliance with all
those requisites, and there is no such rule of the common
taw. It is only madeprimafacieevidence to authorise a
discharge from arrest.
The laws of Maryland cannot apply. The opposite
counsel take that for granted, which is the point in dispute.
There is no mistake in the certificate respecting thL
date of the deed; but if there is, there is no evidence before the court by which it cbn be rectified.
17farihail, C. J. delivered the opinion of the court to
the following effect:In this case the court has attentively considered the
record, proceedings, and evidence. The only equity of
the complainant's bill as to Lamar & Beall, arises out
of the transactions between him and the defendant,
Smith, and the court is of opinion that that equity is
not supported; and that the material allegations of the
bill as to the defendant, Smith, and which are denied by
his answer, are also unsupported by the evidence. Nor
are the allegations of the complainant respecting his
certificate of discharge, sufficiently proved.
By iie separation of the district of Columbia from

FEBRUARY, 1805.

357

the state of Maryliana, the complainant' ceased to be a
citizen of that state, his residence being in the city of
Washington at the time Pf that separation.
As the complainant was entitled to a discharge, upon
executing the deed ofiassignment of all his effects to
the trustee appointed by the chancellor, his certificate
would relate back to the date of the deed. It has been
said, that the true date of that deed was the 23d of
December 1800, and that the certificate of the chancellor, which states the date to be the 23d day of March
1801, is incorrect.
But the certificate of the chancellor, is the only evidence before the court as to that subject, and we must
take it to be true. It is therefore, not material to inquire whether the inhabitants of the city of Washington, ceased to be citizens of Maryland on the 27th of
February 1801, or on the first Monday of December
1800, as it is not contended that they were under the
jurisdiction of Maryland so late as the 23d of Narch
1801.
The complainant, therefore, not b~ing a citizen of
Maryland at the time of executing the deed, did not
bring himself within the provisions of the insolvent
law, under which he claims relief.
I was inclined at first to think, that an account might
have been directed between the complainant and the
defendant, Smith, but the court is of opinion, that Itf
he has any remedy against Smith, it is at law and not
in equity. The bill must be dismissed with costs, but
without prejudice.

RzILY

v.
OTHE.S.

