sse
WXLV.AiUrs

Cox'.L
\can

SUPREME: COURT U. S.

sure and strictures upon the deteimination of 7udge
E wsworth in. Wiliams's casee? He himself acknowledges
BL
that after the 28th of October, 1795, ng. British subject
purchase lands within the United States, so as to
be protected by that treaty.
If once this" whimsical doctrine of antenatus be admitted it will give rise to an infinity of. perpleking
questions.
An attainted loyalist, if he retains his citizenship may
ieturn and be immediately eligible as a member of the
hg'use .of representatives or the senate. After 14 years
residence, though he ,cannot be naturalized without the
consent of the state in *hich he was proscribed, .yet he
may be president of the-United States.
I inter from althesc'considerations that the expatriaton. of Daniel Qoxe induced the forfeiture of alienage,
and that he is thereby precluded from taking lands by
descent in the inited States of America.*
_
Cur. ad. vult.

ADAMS, qui tam, v. WOODS.
AnAS
V.

Woons.
Lopinions
The act of

THIS was a.case certified from the circuit court of the
United States for the Massachusetts district, in which the
of the judges of that court were opposed.

Soth JPr'
It'Was an action'of debt for the pen.alty of 2000 dollars,
90, limitug tinder the 2d section of the act ing
of congress of 22dof-March,
r4tecutioo
on the save trade from
tates, extends ,the United States to an.y foreign pace or country."
as
well created
to pen- ol.. 3,. p. 22.
altie
after, as before
that act, and to
The words of the' act are, " shall forfeit and pa3 the
actions of debt " sum of two thousand- dollars ; one moiety. thereof to the
as well as to n- use of the United States, and the other moiety thereof
fonations
and "to the use of him or her who who
shall sue for and proseindictments.
.
"cute the same."
-Thecase of ,M' lcaine v. Cox's Lesseeby mistake dated Febrary
1804, was the first case decided in February Term, 1805.

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

-

337

The defendant pleaeded, "that the cause of action, set
"forth in the plaintiff's writ and declaration, did, not ac"crue within two years next before the date And issuing
"forth of the writ in this case against him in manner and
"form as the plaintiff hath declared, and this he is ready
"to verify'. Wherefore," &c. To which plea there was
a general demurrer and joinder.
The question was whether the plea .was a good bar to
the action.
The plea was grounded upon the 32d § of the act~of
congress of April 30th, 1790, vol. 1, p. 113, 114. which
is in these words: "That no person or persons shall'be
"prosecuted, tried or punished for treason or other'capi"tal offence aforesaid, wilful murder or forgery excepted;
"unless the indictment for the same shall be found by a
"grand jury within three. years next after the .treason or
"capital offence aforesaid sluMl be done or committed:
"Nor shall any person be prosecuted, triedor punished
"for any offence not capital,. nor for any fine or forfeiture
"under any penal statute, unless the indictment or "infor.
"mation for the same shall be found or institutedwithin
" two years from th6 "time*ofcommitting the offence, or
"incurring the fine or forfeiture aforesaid: Provided,'
"that nothing herein contained , shall extend to any person
"cor persbnsjgeeingfromjusice.1'..
This cause'was arguid at Februaryterm, 1804.
Lincoln, attorney-general, for the plaintiff.
The offences described in the act of congress uponiwb.ch
ifie defendant relies are mala in se. They were crimes originaly.
Informations are of two sorts :-Those 'n behalf of the
United States and the informaer ; and those W behalf of tiie
United. States alone.
They are considered as criminalprocess The act.describes only such offences as are to be prosepited by indictment or inf.rmatorP; for -the words are, ".!'unless the in#Idictmeqdr informationfor' the s mne shal be found or i -.

Uu

AA MS

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ADAMs
vW .
Wdoo os.

" stituted," kc. Hence it is apparent that the legfsla.
ture meant to limit only prosecutions of that kind.
An action of debt qui tam, is a civil, and not a crimi.
pal process. The act of congress on which the defendant relies is entitled, " an act for the punishment of
certain: crimes against the United States." The limitation it contains is intended to be a limitation of crimi.
nalprosecutions. Lord Mansfield, in the case of Atcheson
.. Everitt, !Cowper, 391, says, " now, there is no dis"tinciion better known, than the distinction between
"civ.il and crimiial law ; or between criminalproseeu"tions and civil actions. Mr. justice Blackstone and all
" modern and ancient writers upon the subject distin.
"guish between them. Penal actions were never yet
"put under the head of criminal law, or crimes. The
"construction of the statute must be extended by equity
"to make this a criminal cause. It is as much a civil
" action, as. an actionfor money hadand received."
But even supposing that the act of c6ngress meant to
include actions of debt, under the terms indictment or
information; yet it refers only to penal statutes, or of.
fences
existing, and cannot extend -offences cre.
"ated bythen
subsequent statutes. This may betoinferred
from
the force of the terms used. "Any penal statute" must
mean any existing penal statute. A similar construction
is put upon the statute of 21 Yames, 1. c. 4. by the
judges in England. The words of that statute are ' I any
pbenal statute"-yet the court held that those words referred only to pena statutes then existing, and not those
subsequently enacted.
Cunningham's law dict. title,
LIMITATION-5 Mod. 425-1 Salk. 372, Rex v. Gaul1 Salh. 373, f icks's case. If the legislature meant the
act to apply to all future penalties, they would have
said, any penal statute how existing or -whichshall here,
after be enacted.
The legislature could not suppose that the term of two
years would be a proper limitation of' all penal actions.
In the -present case it goes to a total annihilation of the
penalties of the act. No vessel engaged in. the slave
trade can ever be subjected to condemnation ; for the
voyage is always circuitous, and generally takes up more

FEBRUARY, 18o5.
than the two years to perform it. It is gener-ly, from
the United States to the West-Indies---from'thence to
Africa-thence back to the West-Indies or South Amexica, and thence home. It is scarcely possible that'all

this should be accomplished in two years. I have late.
ly seen a set of papers sent from our consul in England
to the secretary of state, in which orders were given to
thd captain to go to the West-Indies, and from thence
to Africa, and to continue the trade until- the vessel
should be no longer fit for a voyage.
In the act of 2d M1arch, 1799, to regulate the- duties
upon imports and -tonnage, § 89, vol 4, p. 430, is th;
following clause: " That no action or prosecution shall
6Cbe maintained in any case under this act, unless the
" same'shall have been commenced within three years
" next after the penalty or forfeiture was incurred;"
which- shows that the legislature did not consider the act
of 1790 as applying to any offences subsequently 'created ; otherwise they would not have inserted a new limitation ; or if they meant to extend the right of action
to three years, they would have used affirmative .words,
and said .that actions for penalties under that act rnig~t
be prosecuted at any time within three years, the act of
.790 notwithstanding.
S'wann, contra.
It is immaterial whether this is to be considered as .a
criminal or a civil process. The act of limitation is a
general law"applying to offences subsequently created, as
well, as to those already existing. The cases cited from
Cunningham'slaw dict. are grounded upon the peculiar
words of the'statute of Yames, and do not apply to those
of the act of Congress. There may be a little obscurity in the words of thie act, but thrre is none as to the intention of the legislature. They meant to make a provision which should cxtend to all prosecutions upon penal statutes. The action qui tam is a common law re.
reedy, and existed as a mode of prosecution at the time
of passing the act of 1790 ; and although it does not expressly limit an action of debt for the penalty, yet it expressly limits allprosecutionfor the penalty, not the prosecution in a particular mode. The words are, " nor

.A3D),m

wV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Ams

v

" sbal 'any person be prosecuted, tried, or punished.".--.
But if the opposite construction is correct, the United
States would be barred from prosecuting, but an intividual would not.
The court took time to consider-and now at this
"terli.February 18, 1805Milarshall, Ch.
ieot".-

f.

delivered the opinion of the

This is au action of debt-brought to recover a penalty
imposed :by the act, entitled "an act to prohibit the car.ryig on the slave trade from the United States to any
Wforeign place -orcountry."
It was. pleaded. in bar of the action, that the offence was not committed within two years previous .to
the institution of the suit. - To this plea the plaintiff demurred, and the circuit court .being divided on its suffciency, the point has.bee- certified to this court.
In the argument, the plaintiff has rested his case on
two points. He contends,
1st. That the act of congress, pleaded by the defendant, is no bar to an action of debt.
2d. That if it be a bar, it applies only to the rec very
of penalties given by acts which existed at the times of
its passage.
The words of the act are, "nor shall any person be
prosecuted," &c. vol. 1, p. 114. * It is contended that
the prosecutions limited by this law, are those only which
are carried on in the form of an indictment or information, and not those where the penalty is demanded by
an action of debt.
But if the words of the act be examined, they will be
fouid to apply not to any particular mode of proceeding, but generally to any prosecution, trial, or punish-

FEBRUARY,- f8o5;

042

meit f6r the offence. It is not declared that fio indictmeni -shall-be found, or information filed, for any offence not 6apital, or for any fine or forfeiture under, any
penal statute, unless the same be instituted within two

years after the commission of the offirnce. : In that ease
the act would be pleadable only in bar of the particular
action. But it is .declared, that "no person shall. be
prosecuted, tried, or punished," -words vhich "shew
an intention, not merely'to limit-any particular form of
action, but to limit any prosecution whatever.
It is true that general expressions mny be restrained
by subsequent particular words, which shdw 'tat ip the
ijitention of the legislature, those general ei-pressions are
used'inea particularsense: and the argument is a strong
one, which contends that the latter words describing he
remedy, imply a restriction bn those which preoedethenl.
Most frequently they woiild do so. But in the "statute
hucer consideration, a distinct member of.the sentencedescribing one entire class of offences, *ould be rehder.
edalmost totally useless by the construction insisted on
by the attorney for the United States. Alpoqst 'every.
fine or forfeiture .under a penal'statute, may be fecoyer.
ed 'y aw action of debt as well as by information; and
to detlare that the information was baried while the action 9f debt was left without limitation, would be to at-"
tribute a capriciousness on this ;subject to the legislatire, which could notbe accounted for; and to declare
that the law did not apply .to cases on which an action of
debt is maintainable, wouldobe to overrule express words,
and to give the statute almost the same construction
which it would receive if one distinct membei of the
sentence was expunged from it.. In this particular case.
the statute .which creates the forfeiture does not prescribe
the mode of demanding it; consequently, either debt or
information would lie. It would be singular if the onie
remedy.should be barred and the tther left unrestrained.
In support of the opinion, that an act of limitations to
criminal prosecutions can only be used as a bar in cases
declared by law to be criminal at the time the act of limitations was passed, unless there be express words extending it to crimes to be created in future, Cunningham's law dictionary has been cited.

A",As"

v
WOOD%

242

Anis
"..

Woo-03.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

"Thecase inCunanghami's
reported in I .alh. and 5 Nod.
and seetfts to be founded on the p.eculiar phraseology of
the statute ot The .21 of Vamea- 1. directing Informations
to be filed inthe coutity in which the offences were committed. That statute was expbunded to extend )nly to
oflnces, which at the time of its passage were punishaJIe by law. But the words of the act of congress plainly apply to all fines and forfeitures under any penal act,
whenever that act might pass. They are the stronger
because nt many Penal acts were at .that time in the

code,.

In expouiding this law, it deserves some considera.
tion, that if ft does not liinit actions of debt for penal.
ties, those actions might, in many cases, be biought at a'1y distance of time. This. would be utterly repugnant
to the genius of our laws. In'a c6uritry where not even
•treason can*be prosecuted after a lapse of three years, it
,oild scarc'ely be supposed that an individual.would re
-main.foreveir.liable to a pecupiary forfeiture.
Trhe court is of opinion that it be certiied to the circuit court for the district of Massachusetts, that the issue in law joined in thlo case, ought to be d&c.d in fayour of Ihe defendant.

TER
V..
HACKLY .

WINCHESTER v. HACKLEY,*
ERROR to the'circuit court forthe district of Virgi-

A creditoi up.
on open sc.

count who has .The dedaration was f6r monty paid and advancedtby.
assigned 144 the defendant in error for'the iase'ofthe plaintiff in error.
person, with
the assent of

Upon trial of the issue of noh assumpsit two hills of
the debtor; is exception were taken by the original defendant.- The
,Utoaptit verdict was, for kalntiff4155.dollars damazes.
action at law.

The first bill of exceptioft stated, thai the plaintiff bename against low bffered in evidence sundry "bthof exccange drawn
in his own

the debtor, for
theuse of the

assgnee; but

Present, MNar,ha, CZ4 &tudqg,-Patv.andWa:,ton,xWtic9.

