FEBRUARY, 1805.
.ELFAIR et al EXECUTORS OF RAE & SOM-

TSLFAIR

v.

MERVILLE, v. STEAD'S EXECUTORS.

Exxcu-o, s.

THIS was a writ of error to reverse a decree in chancery of the circuit court for the district of Georgia, render-

Thelandsof a
deceased debt.

ed in favour of the defendants in error.

or, in Georgia, are liable
in equity for

]Rae and Yohn Sommerville, as thepaymentof
The bill alleges that c.n
copartners in merchandize were, on the first day of Janua- his debts withcr ners5,
inebterdi eee, Brtisheir
on
dy oe snum. out making the
ry 1775, indebted to Stead, a British creditor in the sum heir a party to
of £3864 sterling, on account.

That Rae and Sommerv;lle in their life time made a division of their supposed profits in trade, and drew out considerable proportions of the partnership-funds, which they
ought not to have done before payment of their debts, and
that eacl invested part of those funds in the purchase of
lands and negroes as their own separate property.
That Rae died in 1772 or 1773, intestate, and that Soam-'
merville the surviving partner died in 1773, having made
Edward Teifalr his executor, and having a large real and
personal estate.
That the said _ohn Sommerville, Samuel Elbert, and Robert Rae, administered upon the estate of !fohn Rae. That
a considerable part of his personal estate was purchased
with monies, improperly .drhwn out of the joint funds.That he left personal estate to the amount of £ 9014 5 0
sterling which came to their hands. That the said administrators of Rae are all dead. That Te/fair as executor of
Sommerville, who was administator of Rae, became possessed of a considerable part of his estate, part of which had
been purchased with the joint funds. That on the dtath
of Robert Rae, his wife Rebecca, now wife of Samuel Earnmond, claiming as executrix of Robert Rae, became possessed of a considerable part of the estate of .ohn Rae,
senior, which had been purchased with the joint funds.
That on the death of Samuel B/bert, the last surviving administrator of Robert Rae, Elbert's executors, viz. Elizabeth Blbert, William Stefihens and 7oseph I-abersham,
also became possessed of part of the estate of .fohn Rae,
senior, which had been purchased with the joint funds.
That Habersham,as legatee of _7ane Sommerville, daugh

the suit.

408

ter of Yiohn Rae, senior, became possessed of a large personal estate liable to tlbe clains of the complainants.

TZLYAXE

v.

STEAD'S
EXzCUTORS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

~

That administration de bonis non, of the estate of Yohn
Rae, senior, was (after the death of Sommerville, Robert
Rae, and Elbert) granted to 7ohn Cobbison and Ann his
wife, and a part of the estate of the said 7ohn Rae, sefiior,
(purchased with the joint funds) came to their fiands.
That Yames Rae deceased, as legated ofj7 ane Sommerville, became also possessed of an estate liable to the claim
of the complainants, which has come -to the hands of his
administrators, Cobbison and wie.
The complainants charge that th defendants have wasted
or misapplied the property which was liable to their claim,
and seek a discovery against each of the defendants, of
-assets and funds, but do not ask for any specific relief.
The answer of Cobbison and wife admits that they are
in possession of 600 acres of land, part of the estate of
.7ohn Rae, senior, "but whether it was purchased with
" monies drawn from the funds of Rae and Sommervi~le is
" a fact which has not come to their knowledge." They
also admit personal estate to the value of£ 348 2 4.
Hammond and -wife, Habersham and Stephens, demurred to the bill,
1st. Because the complainants state themselves to be
executors but do not shew where the will was proved, nor
whether letters testamentary were ever granted, nor whether they have takenupon themselves the execution of the
will.
2d. That the bill contains no matter of equity.
The same defendants also pleaded in bar a recovery at
law, in the year 1775, by Stead in his life time, against
Telfair, executor of Sommerville, surviving partner of Rae
and Sommerville, for the same debt for which the complainants are now seeking relief upon the original assumpsit.
which is merged in the judgment.
.Habershamand Stephens deny all knowledge of ever
having had in their hands any part of the estate of 7ohn
Rae, senior, under Elbert'swill ; but Stephens states, that

FEBRUARY, 1805.

409

in the life time of Mrs. Elbert, she delivered to him as an

TV.A~a

attorney at law, a bond of Rae, Whitefleld and Rai, to
rohn Rae, senior, for 41637 0 4, which bond he is
ready to deliver up to any person entitled to receive it.

STAe

Rebecca Hammond admits that her former husband, Robert Rae, as davisee of 7aneSommerville, came to the possession of two tracts of land, a family of negroes called
Boston's family, and some plate, but does not admit that
they were part of the property of John Rae, or came from
the funds of Rae and Soommerville. She states that one of
the tracts of land, viz. Rae's-Hall has been sold for takes.
Joseph Haber-Tham admits that ifi right of his wife, a
legatee of JaneSommerville, he received negroes, valued at
X300, which had once belonged to John Rae, senior.
Telfair demurred to so much of the bill as seeks a discovery from him, of the amount due to the complairfant's
testator from the estate of 'fohn Sommerville, or from
Rue and Sommerville, or either of them at the time of
their deaths, or to compel the payment thereof from this
defendant, for want of equity, there being an adequate
remedy at law ; and answered as to the residue of the bill.
His answer states that before the war he had fully administered on the estate of John Sommerville, in his own
right, and as surviving partner of Rae and Sommerville, as
far as had come to his hands ; and bad returned an account of his administration on oath to the satisfaction of
the creditors.
He does not admit that any division of profits was made
by Rae and Sommerville in their life-time, nor that they.
drew out any of the joint funds and invested themin lands,
&c. as their, or either of their separate property.
He admits that there are several real estates, and that
he received assets to a considerable amount-a part of
which were sold for paper money which perished on his
hands; and the books and papers of Rae and Sommerville,
and his own accounts of payments and receipts, &c. were
lost or destroyed by the British while in possession of
Georgia. He claims also a right to retain for debts due
to himself.

ExeCuTORS.

SUPREME -COURT U.
TEL7AIa

V.

ST RAD'S

On the 30thofApril, 1794. The demurrers were on
argument ovcrruled by judges Iredell and Pendleton.

EX.CUTORS.

the'plea in bar of Hammond and wife, Habersham
and Stephens, the complainants, repled that there was no
such record, the issue upon which being joined, was adjudged for the complainants on the 15th of November,
1794, by thejudges Wilson and Pendleton.

STo

At the same term auditors were appointed to ascertain
the sum due.to the complainants, but their report appears
to have been set aside, and the clerk was directed to ascertain the balance, and an issue was directed to ascertain
the damages, upon the verdict for which the following decree was inade by Judge Blair, on the Sth of May, 1795.
"The bill and answer ' in this cause being read and
heard, it is ordered and decreed by the court as follows:
"That the sum of "3634 14 7 sterling together with
"the interest accrued thereon at'the rate of 5 per cent per
"annum from the 1st of January 1774 to this day, deduct"ing interest from the" 19th of April, 1775, to the 3d of
"September, 1783, be paid to the complainants, together
"with 5 per centum on the amount of the said principal
"and interest, as a compensation for the expenses of re' mitting the said amount to Great Britain where it was
4 contracted to be paid; and that -the partnership-proper"ty, admitted by the defendants-to be in iheir hands, be
" in the first instance applied towards the discharge of the
".complainants' demand. And that the several tracts and
"lots of land belonging to Yohn Rae or 7ohn Sommerville deceased, referred to in the answers of the several
"defendants (and the title-deeds whereof admitted to be
"in their possession) be sold by the marshal of this court
"on the first Monday of January next for cash, giving two
"months notice of such sale in the gazettes of Savannah
"and Augusta; and the net proceeds of such sale be ap.
"propriated towards the payment and satisfaction of this
"decree.
And that the title deeds in the hands of the
ccseveral defendants'of such lands be delivered over into
"the hands of the clerk of this court in three months after
"notice given to the defendants for that purpose."

FEBRUARY, 1805.

411

Sundry sales having been made under this decree, and
the clerk having reported the balance remaining due on the

T-.r.lll
STAD'S

4th of January 1796,to be 11,196 dollars and 77 1-2 cents, EXECUTOR.

The following decree was made on the 15th of November 1796, by Judge Paterson.
"41It appearing from the report of the clerk that on the
"4th of January 1796, 11,196 dollars and 77 1-2 cents
"remained due to the complainants, upon motion of -ir.
"Gibbons, solicitor for the complainants, and by consent
"of Mr. Telfair executor of Somnzerville, it is further
ordei'edand decreed, that in regard to the defendant Ed"war-d Telfair the executor of 7ohn Somnmerville who was
"the surviving partner of )rohn Rae,-that the copartnership
property, if any, which now is in the hands and possession of the said Edward, as executor as aforesaid, be sold
"by the marshal of this court, he giving sixty days notice*
"in the public gazettes of such sale. And the judgments,
"bonds, notes and other evidences of debts due the said
"copartnership be delivered over to his attorney or solici"tor under a general assignment by deed in order to sue
"the same, if the assets acknowledged or proven to be in
"the hands of the defendants should not be sufficient to
"discharge the amount of the said decree. That after
"payment and satisfaction of a prior judgment obtained
"by Zliatthew'Clarke in the county of Richmond against
"the said Edward Telfair,-executor of the said 7ohn Som"merville for the sum of f826 10 0 with interest from the
"17th of March 1794, the balance of the property of the
"said 7ohn Sommerville, if any, in the hands of the said
"Edward Telfair, executor as last aforesaid, agreeably to
"his answer, be sold as first aforesaid. And the bonds,
"notes and other evidences of debts remaining in this de"fendant's hands be delivered over and assigned -s afore"said, subject to the further order of this court after de"ducting all lawful commissions and paying costs and
"charges for administering and conducting the business
"of the said estate, and that the said Edward Telfair be
"discharged from the same on complying with this order.
'.

" It is further ordered, that the bond admitted by Wil"liam Stephens, one of the defendants, to be in his hands,
"given by Rae, Whitefield and company to .7ohnRae,
senior, dated the 1st of June 1782 conditioned for the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TI LFAI

V.

STEAD'S

EXECUTORS.

"payment of £1637 0 4 with lawful interest from the date,
"be delivered over to the complainants, or their agents, to
be sued for and recovered, and that the sum so recovered
S"be applied to the extinguishment of the complainants' de"mand.
"It is further decreed that the following negroes, that
is to say, Boston, eenny, Phillis, Boy Boston, 1t4olly,
"Peter, Sally and Ned, charged to be in the hands of the
-" defendants, Samuel and Rebecca Hammond,and not deni"ed by the said defendants, be sold at public sale by the

,"marshal of this court, first, giving sixty days notice
"thereof, and that the proceeds be applied to the discharge
"of the complainants' debt.
"It is further ordered and decreed, that the following
"negroes CuFey, Bet with her issue and children, Yelly,
'"Peter,Nancy, Toney, Mary, _enny, Suckey and Doll,
A"admitted by the defendant; .7oseph Habersham, to be iri
"his hands, be sold by the marshal in manner aforesaid,
"and the net proceeds be applied to the payment of the
"complainants' demand."
On the 2d of May 1797 before Judge Chase, leave was
given to the complainants to add Eliiobet" Course, execu*trix of DanielCourse, deceased, as a defendant to the bill.
On the 17th of November 179, Judge Wilson dcreed
a number of tracts of land belonging to the estate of. ohn
Rae senior to be sold.
On the 2d of May 1799 Ellkworth, Ch. J. on the circuit
-made the following decree; viz.
"This cause came on t6 be heard on a decree made at
"November term 1796 by which it is ascertained and stat"ed, that on the 4th of January 1796 the sum of 11,196
"dollars 77 1-2 cents remained 'due to the complainants ;
"and upon a supplemental bill against Elizabeth Course,
"which charges that a certain tract of land containing450
"acres, on Savannah river, known by the name of Rae's
" Hall,is a part ofthe estate of oohn Rae senior, deceased,
"and subject to the complainants' decree, and upon the an"swer of the said Elizabeth Course, by which it is ascer"tained that the said defendant claims the said tfact of

FEBRUARY, 1805.
. land under a deed of conveyance executed by Francis
"Courvoisie, tax collector of Chatham county to Daniel
'Course, deceased, late husband of the said defendant,
"bearing date the fifth of May 1792 for the consideration
of ,128 19 4 sterling. And the cause being heard, and
argued by counsel, on the said decree and the said bill
"and answer together with the proofs and exhibits pro"duced by the parties respectively ;
"Whereupcn, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed that
"the said pretended conveyance be set aside and held as
void; and that the said tract of land and premises be
"9sold at public auction, by the marshal, first giving forty
"days notice in one of the Savannah newspapers of ile
"1time and place of such sale. And it is further ordered,
"adjudged and decreed that the following negroes in the
"possession of William Stephens and Yoseph Habersham,
"executors of Samuel Elbert, to wit, 2oung Sambo, Billy.
"Chance, Oronoho, Fanny, Dianaand Nero, be sold by the
"marshal at public auction, giving forty days notice of the
"time and place of sale as aforesaid.
"And it is further ordered that the marshal shall pay
"to the complainants, or their solicitor, the proceeds of
"such sales above ordered and*decreed, towards satisfac"tion of the balance due to the complainants on this day.
"being 9157 dollars and 90 cents."
On the 28th of April, 1800, Judge -Afooremade the ,folowing decree :
"This cause came on to be heard on the bill, answers
"and replications, and on decree made in this cause in the
"term of April 1799 ; and it appearing by the answer of
".Ann Cobbison, one of the defendants that she hath assets
"in her hands amounting to the sum of £348 2 4 equal
"in value to 1491 dollars and 90 cents ;
"Whereupon it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that
"the said Ann Cobbison, do within ninety days pay over
"to the complainants, or their solicitor, the said sum cf
"1491 dollars and 90 cents."
From these decrees the defendants appealed, and assigned for error,

Tzhr, rR

V.

4STEAD'S

EXECuTois.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TRLFAIR
V.
STEAD'S
EXtCUTORS.
4

y

1st. That there was not sufficient equity in the bill.
2d. That the decree of the 5th of May, 1'95, is vague
and uncertain as to the amount directed to be paid by the
defendants, it being expressedinpounds,shillingsandpence,
which are of no fixed value, whereas it ought to have been
in dollars and parts of dollars.
3d. That the sum decreed to be paid ought to have been
apportioned among the several defendants (they not being
the original debtors) in proportion to the amount of assets
by them severally acknowledged or proved to be in their
hands respectively.
4th. That a-court of chancery has no power to order the
sale of real estate, especially as the heirs at law are not parties to. the suit ; and inasmuch as the title to the real estate was not the subject matter of the bill and proceedings.
5th. That the decree does not state to whom (whethei
to Rae or Sommerville) the lands belonged which were ordered to be sold.
6th. That the private property of the partners was decreed to be sold before it was ascertained whether the joint
property (which had before been decreed to be sold) was
not sufficient io satisfy the daim, or how far it wotld
go towards satisfaction.
7th. That the decree of 15th November, 1796, is
founded only on the consent of one of the defendants, and
yet materially affects some of the other defendants.
8th- That it directs the sale atid applicition of individuAl funds while it shews the existence of large copartnership
funds not previously applied by the complainants to the extinguishment of their demands, as directed by the decree of
5th May, 1795.
9th. That it orders the sale of negroes not specifically
claimed by the complainants, and especially the negroes
inferred to be in the then possession of Samuel and Rebecca Hammond,although not by them or either of them ad.mitted so to be.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

415

-10th. The decree of the 17th of November, 1797, is
liable to the objections stated in the 4th error.

TELrAZZ

v.

STEADS'
E-XPOu TORS-

11th. That the ,aid decrees are not personal against E.
each defendant and apportioned according to the dif-.
ferent amounts of assets in the hands of each.
12th. The decree of 28th of April 1800, is erroneous in
ordering Ann Cobbion to pay the full amount of assets admitted by her, while a femme coveit, to be in her or her
then husband's hands, without her being called on, since
becomuing sole, to shew whether her husband left the said
assets, or any, and what part thereof.
13th. The decrees are against the real and personal estate,.and not personally against the defendants, or either of
them.
14th. That by the decree of May, '1799, certain negroes are said to be in the hands of Habershamand Stephens, executors of B-lbert, whereas it was denied that the
said negroes were in their possession, but in the possession
of the children of .Dbert, in right of their mother or other:
wise, which negroes, by the said decree, are ordered to be
sold, without proof of their being in the possession of Habersham and Stephens, and without the said children (many of whom are under age) being made parties.
This cause was argued in this court at February term,
1803, by Key, for the original complainants, no counsel.
appearing on the other side.
By the decisions of the courts of Georgia, on the statute
of 5 Geo. 2. making lands liable to aferfacias, it is not
necessary that the heirs should be made parties. The
lands are assets until-all the debts are paid.
The executor of an administrator is not, as such, liable
to a suit on account of the original intestate; but is liable
in equity for the property of the original intestate which
has come tp his hands.
The record contains a special demurrer to the bill, which
was very properly overruled.
The causes for demurrer were.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
*TLPAIa
V.
STAD's
E XCUTOaS.

y

1st. That it did not appear in the bill by whom,
where the letters testamentary were granted.

0x

2d. That there was a complete remedy at law.
As to the first, it was not necessary for the complainants to make profert of their letters testamentary. It
was sufficient for them to state that they were executors.
At law the defendants might crave oyer; but in equity they
must petition that the will and letters testamentary may
be produced. It is no cause of demurrer that they are
not set forth in the bilL
As to the second cause of demurrer, a court of equity
will sustain a bill against executors because they are considered as trustees for the creditors and representatives of
the deceased, and are liable to account; especially where
they are executors of several copariners ; and because the
court may compel an equitable distribution.
There are 14 errors assigned in the record.
1st. That there is no equity in the bill.
This has been considered and answered.
2d. That the decree being in pounds shillings and
pence is vague and uncertain.
The relative value of dollars to the currency of Georgia
is well known, and if the decree can be rendered certain it
is sufficient.
3d. The decree ought to be proportioned to the assets.
This is done by applying the decree to the assets them*elves.
The object of the bill was not to enforce a responsibility
further than assets should appear-it was not against the
persons but the property that the bill sought relef-its
object was to follow the assets. It does not appear that
the whole assets were sufficient to satisfy the claim, and
therefore there was no necessity to apportion the decree to
the assets in the hands of each defendant.

417

FEBRUARY, 1805.
4th. The heirs at law were not made parties.

By the practice and law of Georgia the lands are assets,
and tierefore the executor is the representative of the testator as to lands as well as to the personal estate until the
debts are paid, and is the proper person to defend them
against the claims of creditors.
5th. The decree does not state Whether the lands belonged to the estate of Rae, or of Sommerville.
The answer to this is that the fact is not so.
6th. That the private property was decreed to be sold
before it was ascertained that the joint property was not
sufficient.
The answer to this is that it did not appear that the joint
funds were sufficient. And it is to be presumhed that they
were not until the contrary appears. No error is to be
presumed until it is shewn.
7th. That the decree is founded on the consent of Telfair alone, but. affects some of the other defendants.
The decree it founded on the consent of Tefah- so fdr
only as respects him. It was not ntecessary for the court
to insert in the decree the grounds on which it Vras foumded so far as it affected the 9ther defendants. If the couit
had sufficient grounds to justify the decree. against the
others, it it enough.* The objection is that the court did
not state the grounds, not that they did not exist.
8th. This objection is the same as the 6th, only applying
it to another decree ; and is liable to the.same answer.
9th. That the negroes, ordered to be sold, were not
specifidally claimed by the complainants.
It is true that the complainants did nrp.t specifically claim.
those negroes ; but they were seeking for assets generally,
and the defefidant adnlitted that the negroes came to her
hands as executrix of Robert Rae. The court having ad-judged them to be liabi e to the complainants. deniand, decreed theymto besold. WVhether they were then in her actual
30

-

TrLrAltR
1'.

STktA's

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tz~Ara
S '
EzcuTona.

possession, o'r not, was immaterial; they had been traced
to her hands, and she must account for them.

This objeftion is the same as the 4th, and liable to
the same angwer.

Sl0th.

1ith. This is the same as the 3d.
12th. That the defefndant becamne sole since her answer
and before.the decree.
either the complainants nor the court were bound to
tak6 notice of that fact until it-was shewn. If the assets
did not remain in her hands after the death of hei husband
it was for her to shew it. The court was not boufid to
make'the inquiry.

lUth. The decrees are not against the defendants personally..
-This is'no error. The complainants were following the
property of their debtor, not the persons of his reprepent
tatives.
"4 th. The answer to this objection is :tat the facts do
not 4ppear in: the record to be as alleged in this exception.
On asubsequient day the court expresseda doubt whether the heirs ought not to have been made parties to the bil9
and continued the cause to ai'certain what construction the
courts of Georgia had given to.th9 stitutb -of 5 Geo. 2..
MAR SALIL, Ch. J. The only doubt which-the. court
had, Was, whether by the laws of Georgia, the land pould
be made liable unless the heir was a piaty to the suit.

We have received. information as to the construction
g Ven by the cofirts of Gebrgia to the statute of 5 Geoi' 2.
,aking lands in the colonies liable for debts, and are satisfied that they -re considered as chargeable without making
the heir a party.
Decrees affrmei..

