SUPREME COURT U. S.
MASON

Am)

OTVaS

Sitr BLAX-

WILLIAM MASON AND OTHERS, LIBELLANTS. v. SHIP BLAIREAU.

REIM!

was a libel for salvage, filed in the district

"THIS
One third part

of the gross
value of the

ship and cargo

alowed for salvage-and
one third of
the sah age

court of the UnitedStates for Maryland district, by the
master, officers. crew, owner, aud freighters of"the British merchant-ship The Firm, against the French ship

e Blaireau,

The facts stated in the proceedings and evidence,

decreed to the were as follow.

owners of the
zaving ship
and cargo.

The ship Le Blaireau, Yanies Anquetil, master, on a
voyage from Aartiniquito Bordeaux, laden with sugar,
salvors em n
bezzles partof on the 30th of March, 1803, at 10 o'clock at nigt, in
the goods sa. Lat. 35. 46..N.-Long. 46. west from Paris, wsuxun
ve, rihopanish
heoreits own by a
64 gun ship, called the St. ulien,
his right to
commanded by FranciscoMondragora,which struck the
salvaoe.
A detention at bow of the Blaireau, carried away her bowsprit, and cut.
sea to save a water close to the seam of the stem, started three planks
vessel in dis.
of the bends, and all above them, and crushed to pieces
rbar
dess, is such a
the larboard cat-head. Before morning there were three
deviation as
discharges the and a half feet of water in the hold, and the Spanish
underwriters, commander not' being able to wait for an attempt to reSt.nd hisown pair the Blaireau, he took her crew and passengers on
board his ship, excepting one man, Thomas Toole, anI
insurer.
If a vessel
Irishman,"who could not be found, as it was alleged by
distress is a- the officers and crew of the Blaireauir their protest,
bandoned at
but whos was, as he himself alleged, prevented by force.
sea by the
If one ofthe

master and al from getting into the first b6at, and afterwards refused

the crew, ex.
cepting
one
man, who is

to go in the second boat, -being determined to remain on
board the Blireau. Took, being thus left alone, cut

left either by away, as he alleged in his libel, the anchors, and the
accident or de. bowsprit (which had been left.hanging) to lighten her
sign, he is dis- bows, put hey before the wind, and hoisted a signal of

hsgeontrt adistress. In this situation she was, the next day, found
a mariner of and'boarded by the ship Firm, bound on a v6yage from
that veqsc, and Lisbon to Baltimore. The persons on board of the Firm
entt'ed to.sal.
" If

apprentices

Sare salvors,

their masters
are not entitled

to theirhie

were.
Charles Christie, one of the charterers of the ship.
William Mason, master.

William Stephenson, mate, shipped at;C4. sterlin&'per
month.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
at &5. 5.
John Falconer, carpenter,
2. 10.
Daniel Ross, boatswain,
2. 10.
George Glass, cook,
Samuel Monk,
"
M-irtin Burk,
John Brown Hall,
m
2. 0. 0.
John Blickford,
. mariners,
John Willson, and |
Mark Catlin,
J
Joachim Daysontas, a boy.
1. 1.0.
John Moat, and I apprenti
'o the owners of
John M'Mon,
f the Firm
Negro Tom, a slave of the 2.
y4r. Ireland.
It. was admitted tha" the ship Firm is about the bur.
then of 330 tons, car-'nter's measure, but that 500 tons
can be laden on board 'her; that she is of the value of
ten thousand dollars, and is owned by _ohn 7achson of
London, but charterel to CharlesB. roung and Charles
Christie, who had a cargo of salt on board, of the value
of 4000 dollars. The proper complement of men to
nivigate the Blaireauwa at least sixteen hanads. She
was a faster sailer thau thL "'rm. They laid to together for two or three days dur'ng the bringing in the Blaireau, for the purpose of taking out part of her cargo,
and rendering assistance from the Firm. The sum of
Z2000 sterling was insured u in the Firm to cover her
valt, and freight.
Upon taki . ossession of the Blaireau she had about
four feet of waier in her hold, and could not have swan
more than twelve hours longer. There was great risk
and peril in taking charge of her. She was brought into
the Chesapeake bay after a navigation of nearly three
thousand miles, by six persons who went on board of
her from the Firm, and the man who was found on
hoard. Part of her cargo was taken out to lighten her
foarward, and put on hoard the Firm; and part of it
shifted aft. The Blaireauwas navigated by.the people
of the Firm without boat or andcors. She was obliged
to be pumped in fair weather by all hands every twoi
three or four hours, half an hour at a time, and in blowing weather every hour, a quarter of an hour at a time.
Her bow was secured by coverings of leather, copper
Hli

MASON &
OTHERS

V.

SHIr BLAIREA19.

of the s:;.1ige,
but it shall be
paid to the ap.
prentices
themselcs.

The courts of
the U. State:
have jurisdiction in cbses
where all the
part;es a;e aliens.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
& and sheet le@Ld nailed on, and pitch and turpentine in.
large quantities poured down hot between the planks and
SHF BLAX- the coveriigs. The labour of working the Blaireauby
the men on board was great and *evere, and they had
IMA .
thought of abandoning her, but fortunately
'frequently
persevered. She was a slight built vessel and constructed without knees, and was very weak. The forestay was gone, and the foremast was secured by passing
a large rope through the hawse holes and securing it
to the foremast head. It was the opinion of several experienced sea-captains that the bringing in-the Blaireau
was a service of great risk and peril; and nearly des'perate, and such as they would not have undertaken.
MASON

V.

. The persons who, went on board the Blaireaufrom the
Firm were, Charles Christie, supercargo and one of the
charterers of the Firm; William Stevenson, first mate ;
John Brown Hall, and John Wilson, seamen; John
Moat, a boy, and Negro Tom.
Afason, the master, and Stevenson, the mate, were
the only persons capable of taking an observation and
navigating the vessels, or either of them, into port.
A claim was put in by the French consul in behalf of
'the owners of the Blaireau. It appeared in evidence
that William Mason, the master of the Firm, had embezzled part of the cargo of the Blaireau, to the amount of
at least 1760 dollars and 71 cents.
Onthe 14th of uty, 1803, his honor Judge Wiiehester, made the following*decree :
The counsel for the parties respectively intervening in
this cause were heard by the court, and their argument,
together with all and singular the proceedings and testimony in this cause, were by the court maturely consid.
ered:
And it appearing to the court that the circumstances
of extreme danger.under which the salvage of the ship
B!aireau, and cargo was effected, require a salvage and
compensation as liberal as is consistent with precedents
and legal principles ; that the danger, labour and service

FEBRUARY, 1804.

243

of the persons actually employed in navigating and bring- MASON &
V.
ing in the said ship, greatly exceeded the danger, labour, u OTHERS
and service of the persons who remained on board the sHIP B.AIUZAU.
ship Firm; and that their compensation should exceed,
at the rate of fifty per cent, the conipensation of-those
who re maindd on board the ship Firm ; thatamong the
persons on board the Blaireau, the station, trust and
-services of William Stevenson and CharleiChristie entitle
them to a compensation exceeding that of seamen, at
the rate of 50 per cent, and that -the apprentices, cook,
and negro slave should not be classed with seamen, nor
seamen with the carpenter and second mate, and there
not being any general rule by which to settle the proportions of salvage among persons of those different stations, but that the same must depend upon the sound
discretion of the court applied to the circumstances of
every particular case ;-hat William Mason, captain" of
the said ship Firm, having fraudulently embezzled and
secreted, with intent f6 appropriate the same to his own
use, lace, and other articles of a large value, which con.
stituted a part of the cargo of the said ship Blaireau, is
not entitled to any salvage or other compensation ;that in strictness the officers and crew are the only sal.
vors ; and the owners of the ship F'rm and cargo, as
such, can only come in for any share of salvage, upon
the consideration of the risk to which their property was
exposed ; that upon these principles salvage should be
paid to and among the persons entitled thereto, at the
rate of threeflfths of the net proceeds of the sales of the
said sflip and cargo ; and that of this sum, one ninth
part of the net salvage will be a just and liberal compensation to the owners of that ship and her cargo for any
hazard to which their property was exposed.
It is this 14th day of Yuly, 1803, by me, Jq4mes
Winchester, judge of the district court of the United
States, for Marylanddistrict, and by the power and authority of this court, ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that the net amount of sales of the said ship Blaireau,
her tackle, apparel, and furniture and cargo, (after deducting the costs in the cause, and the sum of three hundred and eighty-eight dollars, heretofore decreed by
consent to Charles Christie for expenses and disbursements relative to the "stid ship Blaireaze and cargo)

SUPREME-COURT U. S.
MAh"r; & amounting, as stated by the clerk of this court, to the
OTHERS

SHip BLAXREA,.

sum of sixty thousand, two hundred and seventy-two
dollars, andsixty-eight cents, shall be paid, applied and
disposed of, to, and among the persons and in the manner following, to wit:

To the owners of the ship Firm and cargo, the sum of
four thousand and eighteen dollars andfourteenand three
quarter cents, to be divided between them in the proportions of their respective interests agreeably to the
,admitted estimation thereof, to wit:
7 the owners of the ship Firm, for the value of the
said ship and freight on eighteen thousand dollars; and,
To the owners of the cargo of the said ship on four
thousand dollars.
-To the persons on board the said ship Blaireau, as
follows, to.wit:
To William Stevenson' the sum of three thousand,
four hundred and three 'dollars, and siity-three and a
quarter cents.
To Charles Christie, the sum of three thousand, four
hundred and three dollars, and sixty-three and aquar.
ter cents.
To Brown Hall, 7ohn Wllson and Thomas Toole,.
seamen, each the sum of two thousand, two hudred
6nd sixty-nine dollars, ind eight and three quarter cents.
To 7ohn Moat, an apprentice boy, the sum of eleven
hundred and thirty-four dollars and fifty-four and three
quarter cents.
And that there be retained a like sum of eleven hundred and thirty-four dollars and fifty-four and 'three
quarter cents in this court, to and for the benefit of such
person or persons as may hereafter make title to the
same as owner or owners of the said Negro Tom.
To the persons on board the said ship Firmi, as follows, to wit ;

FEBRUARY, 18o.

245

To Yohn Blachford, second mate, the sum of eigh. MASOS' Axt
OTHERS
teen hundred and ninety dollars and ninety and three
BI.AI.
.P
S
quarter cents.
REAU.

To _7ohn Falconer, carpenter, the sum of eighteen 1-um
hundred and ninety dollars and ninety and three quarter
cents.
To. George Glass, the cook, and 7ohn lIPAfon, an ap.
prentice, each the sum of seventeen hundred and fifty.
six dollars, and thirty-six and three quarter cents.
To Daniel Ross, Samuel ZPMonh, Xartin Burk, Milark
Catlin, and Yoaclim Daysontas, (sailors df the Firm)
the sum of fifteen hundred and twelve dollars, and seventy-t.ree cents each.
That no salvage or Lampensation whatever shall, for
the cause above recited, be paid to the said William Mlason, but that the libel in this cause filed, so far as it re.
lates to the claim of the said llfasbn pefsonally andofnly,
shall stand, and the same is hereby dismissed.
And it is by these presents further ordered, adjudged
anddecreed, that the residue of the proceeds of the sales
aforesaid, shall be deposited in the bank of Baltimore,
in the name of this court, and to the credit of this cause,
to the, use and benefit of such person or persons as may
in this court make title thereto, as owner or owners of
the said ship 81aireau and cargo, or siich person or
persons as may be legally authorised by them to receive
the same.
(Signed)

JAsES

WINCHESTER,

yudge .Md. Dist.

From this decree, an appeal to the circuit court was
prayed by William Mason, the master of the Firm ; 'by
the owner of the Firm; by the claimants of the Blaireau;
and by the charterers of the Firm.
Upon the appeal, additional testimony was adduced,

it the circuit court, hut it does not seem to affect the
principles upon which the rates of salvage ought to be
awarded.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MASON &

oV.s

SHIP BLAXRZAU.

"this

- On the 27th of December, 1803, the circuit court,
held by his honour Yudge Chase, decreed as follows:

The court having heard the parties on the appeal in
cause, by their counsel, and fully examined the
evidence, exhibits and proofs, and maturely considered
the same, do o;rder, adjudgeand decree, and it is hereby
ordered, adjudged and decreed by the said court, that
the decree of the said district court be and. hereby is in
all things affirmed, (and, witl respect to the said Mis.o
K0n, with the costs of his appeal) except only so far as
.he said decree 6hall herein after, by this decree, be
changed or altered.
And it is now further ordered, adjudged and decreed
by this court as follows, to wit:
That there be. paid to Yohn y.ackson, of St. PauPgparish, in the county of" Middlesex, in the united- kingdom
of Great Britainand Ireland, (who appears to this cqurt
to be the owfier of the ship Firm) the sum of two thou.
sand, eight hundred and seventy dollars,, twelve cents,
and eight dimes, on the amount of the value' of the -said
ship estimated at the sum of ten thousand dollars.
* Fhat there be paid to Charles Bedford Toung, and
Charles Christie,jun. (who appear to.this court to be
.the owners of the cargo on board the said.ship Firm)
the sum of one thousand one hundred and forty-eighi
dbllars, and five cents on the amount of the value of the.
said cargo. estimated at thesum of four thousand dollars.
That there be paid to William Stevenson, the sum of
two thousand two hundred and sixty-nine dollars, eight
cents, and nine dimes.
That the salvage roney adjudged by the district
court and aflrmend by this court to be paid to Yohn Moat
(Who appeaAs to this court to be an apprentice to the
above mned 7ohn Yachson, owner of the ship Firm)
be paid by the clerk of this court to the said 7ohn Moat
or to hi*. Octor or attorney in fact for the use and benefit of l said 91ohn Moat ; and that the said salvage
money beinot paid to the said 7fohn 7achson, or to his

FEBRUARY, 1804;
attorney, or to any other person or persons whatsoever,
who shall claim the said salvage money as owner or
master of the said apprentice ; and that the said salvage
money remain in court until paid according to this decree.
That the salvage money adjudged by the district
court and affirmed by this court to be paid to 7ohn
MAon, (who appears to this court to be an apprentice
to-the above-named 7ohn .achson) be paid by the clerk
of this court to the said Yohn NMAon, or to his proctqA
or attorney in fact, for the use and benefit of the said
7ohn .M'X.on; and that the said salvage money be not
paid to the said ohn 7ackson, or to his attorney, or to
any other person or persons whatsoever, who shall claim
the said salvage money as owner or master of the said
apprentice; and that the said salvage money remain in
court until paid according to this decree.
That the salvage money adjudged- by the district
court and affirmed by this court to be retained for the
owner of Negro 'Tom, be paid to the Rev. Yohn Ireland;
(Iatd of this state, but now of the united kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland) who appears- to this court to
be the owner of the said Negro Tom, or to the Rev.
yoseph G. I. Bend, and Leuwis Atterbury, who appear to
this court to be the attorneys in fact of the said Yoh?4
Ireland,and who have expressed in writing to this court,
that they, being duly authorised by the said 7ohn Ire.
land, will immediately on the receipt of the said salvage
money, manumit the said Negro Tom, accordingtothe
law of the state of faryiand,and will pay the said Ne.
ro Tom one fifth part of the said salvage money, and
ave consented that the same may be-retained by the
clerk of this court for the use of the said Negro Tom.
And it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that
the appellants (except William Mason) pay no costs in
this court on the appeal.
(Signed)

SAMUEL

CHASAE.

Upon this judgment separate. writs of error were
sted but by William Mason, the master, "Yohn 7achson,

MAson & OTHEIs
V.
SHIP BL.RIAV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
34Aso1 &

oV. RS

the owner, William Stevenson, the mate, Charles Christie
andCharles B. 2'oung, the 'charterers of the Firm, and

Snip BLAX. by the French claimants of the-Blaireau.
y'b

William Mason assigned for error, that no part'of the
salvage was decreed to him for his own use, on account
of his merits and services.
Y ohn .7achson, the owner of the Firm, assigned for
error, that he was not allowed a reasonable proportion
of salvage ; that the whole sum allowed and decreed to
jhe owner and freighters, ought to have been decreed to
him; and that the sums decreed to the two apprentices
ought not-to have been ordered to be paid to themselves
or their proctor only.
William Stevenson, the mate, assigne. for error, that
the share assigned himn was inadequate to his services,
merits and situation.
Christie and Toung, the freighters of the Firm, alleged that the .proportion allowed to the owner and
freighters of the Firm, was- too small, in proportion to
their risk---and that the proportion aiwaded"the freighters, was too small compared with that awarded to the
owner.
The case was now argued by Harperfor the owner&
of the Blareau, for Christie & Toung and for the apprentices-by Hollings-worth, attorney of the 'UniteC
States for 217arylanddistrict,for the libellants generally-.
by Mai-tin, attorney-gefieral of Afaryland, for 7aciison
the owner, and Mason the master, of the Firn, and for
the owners of the Blareau-.--and by S. Chase,jun. for
the owners of the:Blaircau.
As this was the case of a French ship saved by a British ship and brought into a jport of the UnitkdStates,
a preliminary question was suggestw by Atin,.wheth.
er a court of the United States had jurisdiction and
could condemii a part as salvage; -le did not mean to
urge the point, but he thought it his duty to read some
authorities for the consideration of the court. He believed the question had not been finally settled ; but his

FEBRUARY, 18W.

own opinion was in favour of the jurisdiction.

Sir W. MAsON &
V.
Scott, in the case of the Two Friends, 1 Rob. 234. incli- S OTHERS
ned to the same opinion ; which seems also to'be adopt- Snip BLAIed by Browne in -his View of ihe Civil and Adniiraly
A' .
Law, vol. 2. p. 278;
To carry the property saved into the. ports of the
saJvor, or ofthe owner of the property, would, in many
cases, be impossible, and in most caies would be attended
with great difficulty and inconvenience to the salvors,
and would expose the property to risk. There seems
to be no good' reason why the question of sa;age which
is a question of the jus gentium, and depending Upon
general principles, should not be decided by the courts
of admiraltv of any civilized nation.
In reply to the doubt suggested respecting.ihejuiisdiction, it was said by Hoilingsworth, that an admiralty
court may .have jurisdiction by submission, where it may
be withdrawn by'protest. Here all the parties have
submitted themselves to the jurisdiction.
The claimants of the'Blaireau, assigned for error 1sti
that the whole amount of salvage was more -than in
equity and good conscience the salvors were entited to,
and that it ought not to have exceeded one-third of the
value of the ship and cargo.
2d. That Toole having been shipped as a marineron
board the Blairedu, at certain wages, was not entitled to
salvage.
3d. That William Stevenson ought not to be allowed
any part of the salvage money, because he had embezzled a part of the property on board of the Blaireau, and
had als,. - ncealed a part with intent to convert it to his
own uge.
1. For the Claimants of the Blaireau, it was urged,
first, that three-fifths of the value of the ship and cargo
was too great a proportion for salvage.
Secondly, that fason's share of the salvage, and the
reduction made by the circuit court in the amount of

250
MAsox &
OTHZRS
V..

Snii BLAZ-

RZAV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

Stevenson's share ought to go to the use of the claimants ,
and not to the benefit of the other salvors.

TThirdly, that Toole ought not to have salvage.
Fourthly, that the amount of embezzlement over and
above what wis.proved upon. Mason, should be deducted out of the general sum alldwed for salvage.
1st. That the salvage is too high, appears, 1st. from
general usage. 2d. From the principles of reciprocity
.tetween the courts of this country and .those of Great
Britain. 3d.' From analogy to cases of recapture.
1. As to general usage.
Vessels derelict are Iroits of the admiralty, and kt
these cases the crown is liberal in its reward of the salvors. But where a cliim intervenes, it becomes a question of quantum meruit. A vessel totally abandoned is
in much more danger -than when even one man only is
left on board
He may hoist a signal. of distress, he
may cut away the anchors, or he may even stop a leak.
Beawe's Lexi Mer. 158. This then isa case less merito.
rious than that ofderelict. One is a case of liberality, the
other of justice.
et in the case 6f the Aquila, a derelict, 1 Rob. 38, 39. only two-fft s were allowed to the
salvors. And in 1 Rob, 263, ii the note, Sir Villiam.
Scott declares the liberal principles by which he is gov-.
erned in cases of salvage. If then Sir Win. Scott, acting.
upon. these principles, allowed but two-fifths in a case
of absolute derelict, in a country where it is the national
policy to encourage adventurous seamen, and where the
very existence of the iiation depends upon its maritime
spirit, surely three-fifths is too much to be allowed in a
case of simple salvage.
The case of The Beaver, in3 Rob. 23V, was more
desperate, and the service more hazardous and merito,;
rious than the present, and yet only one-fourth was allowed for salvage.
The lives of those on board of'the Firmwere in very
little danger. They were a little to the S. W. of the

FEBRUARY, 180."

251

Azores ; and near the trade-winds. They might have
or to the Azores without the
•
gone to a Frencl island,
least danger. What lazard was there to those on board
the Blaireau P They were nineteen days in coinpany
with.the Firm. A fact which shews what idea they had
of their danger, is, that the Blaireau, being the fastest
sailer, parted from the Firmfor several days, when they
mighthave shortened sail, and kept in her company,
Of late the English courts of admiralty have inclined
to diminish the rate of salvage.' Formerly, one hafws
allowed in England, in cases of derelict. In the time d
Colbert, it was fixed by France at one-third. But iii
Englandit has since varied, and now depends upon the
particular circumstances of the case ; but in no case has
so high a salvage as three-fifths been allowed. In the
case of the William Bechford 3 Rob. 286, one-thirteenth
was allowed and in the case of the Franklin, 4 Rob.
147, only one-sixteenth. In cases of recapture, it has
been fixed by statute at 'one-sixth, and one-twelfth.. In
the case of the Mary Ford, 3 Dal. 188, which was a
derelict, only one-thirdwas given for salvage.
2d." The principled of reciprocity will not warrant so
large a proportion as three-fifths.
The salvors are British subjects ; and the courts of
l ngland adopt the rule of ieciprocity. If no rule has
een established by the nation of the salvor, they make
a rule.
What is the rule in the English courts ? Two-fifths
is the greatest rate of salvage alloWed by them during
the last century, and if the salvors had carried the Blai-"
reau into their own country, -this is the utmost they
would have received. If our citizens should have a
case of salvage in their courts, they will not be allo.ed
more than two-fifths. Indeed, there is only one case
where so much as one-thirdhas been allowed, and thai
was -a case of derelict,
3d. The principles of analogy to cases of recapture,
will not justify so large a proportion for salvage as ha
-been decreed by the district court.

MA&oN

oTH-Rs
V.

SHx BLAZ.
REAU.

SUPREME COURT. U. S.
MASON &
OTES.

SHIP

BLAX.

REM.

By the Laws of the UnitedStates, vol. 5. p. 39, 40,
ezeighth ohly is all 9 wed for recaptures -nhade by i
piblic vessel of the United States, and one-sixth if madL,
by a private vessel. The same proportion is also adopted by England. Abbot, 258.
2d. Point. Iason's share of the salvage, and the reduction made by the circuit rourt in Stephenson's share,
ought to go to the benefit of the owners of the Blaireau.
The crime of one-of the- salvors ought. not to enure to
the benefit.of the otheis.
3d. Point.

Toole is not entitled to salvag

'When seamen save their own vessel, by recapture, or
otherwise;, they cannot claim salvage, for the same reason that their wages .arerefused in case of wreck or
capture. To reward them -for saving their vessel from
peril, would.be a'temptation to put her in danger
If Toole had voluntarily remained, on board for the
purpose of indtavouring to 'save thi ve.sel, after sle
had been abandoned by all the rest 6f the crew, the case
inlght be different. But his'remaining on board .was'an
"involuntary act, and whathe did was with the sole view
of saving his own life. When the *Firm approached
him, 'he begged to Ise taken off from the wreck; He
did only his duty in continuing on board after there was
a chance of saving her. - His services were not meritorious, inasmuch as he Was bound to do every thing id,
his power to save the vessel, and yet he is put upon a
par with the seamen of the Firm, who were volunteers,
and under no'obligation to do any thing towards saving
the Blaireau.
While a sailor remains on board, contending with no
other enemies than the elements, he is entitled only to
his wages. No case can be produced in which he has
been-considered as entitled to salvage. Salvage does
not consist in being saved, but in saving. Beawe's Lex.
-/fer. 157, 158.

The reason why a seaman shall lose his wages if the
0hip be lost, is, that he may be induced to use his ut-

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

523

most exertions to save it ; and thIs shews thathe is obli- MASON AND
ged to hazard his life to the utmost for that purpose.
oTHRS
And even if he actually loses his life, and the ship is Sxxp BLA!REAU.
also lost or captured, his representatives cannot recover
his wages. It is upon the same principle that a common
carrier is answerable for the whole value of the goods if
they are taken from him by superior force of robbers,
and even if he should lose his life in their defence.
When did Toole lose his character of a marine r of
that vossel ? It is answered, when the captain and the
rest of the crew deserted her. But they could not discharge him from his contract with the owners. They
lose their wages, but Toole does not. The danger may
possibly justify them in quitting the vessel; but because
he was left alone, he did not cease to be a mariner of
the ship. Suppose the rest of the crew had died, or
were so sick as to disable them, and Toole had made a
signal of distress, by means of which the ship should be
saved ; would that have entitled him to salvage ? The
real truth of the case is, that Toole was saved, not a
salvor.
The cases cited from 19th VTner, 275, 1 Ld. Raym.
393, and 2 Salk. 654, to rove that mariners are entitled
to salvage for saving their own ship, do not warrantf the
onclusion attempted to be drawn from them.- The only
,xception to the general rule is the case of rescue. In
that case, and that only, it is admitted that the mariners
are entitled to salvage. "
4th Point. By comparing the original bill of lading
of the Blaireau with the account of sales, it appeared
that there was a deficiency over and above what was
chargeable to the embezzlement of Mason, and, it was
contended that as this could not be fixed upon any one
of the salvors, it ought to be a charge against them all.
But it did not appear whether a part had not been taken
on board of the Spanish ship.
In answer to these arguments in behalf of the owners
of the Blaireau, it was said by the counsel for the salvors,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1. .9s to the general rate of salvage; that no fixed
rate of salvage has yet been adopted in cases of this kind,
s, i BLAIX. but that it depends upon the sound discretion of the
REu.
court applied to the circumstances of each particular
case. 3 Dal. 19.), 191. MeDonough v. The Mary Ford,
3 Rob. 249. "It is a claim upon the general ground of
"' quantum meruit, to be governed by a sound discretion,
"acting on general principles." 1 Rob. 234, 235. The
Two Friend. And in the case of the Sarah, 1 Rob.
263, Sir Wim. Scott thus expresses his opinion. "I do
"not think that the exact service performed is the only
proper test for the quantum of reward in these cases.
"The general interest and security of navigation is a
"point towhich the court will also look in fixing the re"ward.
It is for the general interest of commerce that
"4a considerable reward should be held up; and as ships
" are made to pay largely for light-houses, even where
" no immediate use is derived from them, from the
"gefneral convenience that there should.be permanent
"buildings of. that sort provided for all occasions, al"though this or that ship may derive- no benefit Tr'm
"them on' this or that particular occasion; so on the
99 same principle it is expedient for the security of na11 vigation, that persons of this description, ready on the
"water, and fearless of danger, should be encourage4
" to go out for the assistance of vessels in distress ; and
4' therefore when they are to be paid at all, they should
"be paid liberally. It is- on these general considera,.
"tions, and not merely to mete out the payment for the
" exact service performed in the particular instance,
"that the rewards should be apportioned in these cases .
" and it is in -this view that I shall always consider
&
OTESS.

MASON

" them."

It does n6t depend.upon principles ofrecapture, or of
reciprocity ; nor do the prize acts constitute any rule of
!ialvage in cases not within those acts. 3 Rob. 249.
There can be no general rate 6f salvage stated when
it is acknowledged that the only rule is a sound discretion. A rule which brings all cases to one dead level,
can leave no discretion. How can we make'reciprocity
the rule, when every case must depend on its own circumstances'? How can we compare dissimilar cases ?

FEBRUARY, 1804.

255

MASoN &
In this case the Blaireauwas in imminent danger.OTHERS
It.is a fact admitted that she could not have swam twelve
hours longer. She must have been totally lost. She Sn BLAr.
aAM.
was derelict ; abandoned by the captain and all the crew,
except Toole, whom they did not know they had left in
the vessel. As the) could not find him they supposed
he must have fallen overboard. The ordinance of Lewis
the 14th, allows one third in cases of wreck. But there
can be no wreck., according to that ordinance, if any
claimant appears. So that in ,ases like the present,
neither Francenor Englandhasany fixed rate of salvage.
i Rob. 235. The Two Friends.

None of the cases cited equals the- merit of this.-Here was a navigation of 3000 miles with" death constantly staring them in the face ; anda great part of the
time almost constantly at the pumps"
In the cases of the Aquild, and of the Mary Ford,the
two-fifths of the one, and the one-third of the other,
were of the gross value ; but in the present case, the
three-fifths awarded, are of the net amount of sales.
It is denied that the rates of salvage have of late been
diminished. In the case of the Dutch -East-Indianran
at Dunkirk, mentioned in Beawe's Lex. Mer. 158.' onehalf was given for salvage.
As to Toole, he was abandoned by his cojnmander,
and was therefore discharged from the service ; he wa s
vo longer to be considered as a mariner belonging to,
the ship.
No general deduction can be made from the whole
amount of salvage for any defalcation if it be not fixed
upon any one of the salvors; and in this case the deficiency is so small that it might have been taken on board
the Spanish ship.
The next writ of error, was by the Owner and
F.reightersof the Firm, who contended that one-ninth
part of the whole salvage money was too small a share,
in proportion to the risk of the ship, cargo, and freight
and the service rendered by the ship.

SUPREME COURT U; S.
In the case of the Mdry Ford,3 Dali. 191i two-thitds
ofthe whole salvage were given to the owners of the
SHIP BLAX- ship George, and in the case of the ship William Btck.
REAU.
ford, . Rob. 286, 289, fifty pounds were given to the
Sowners of the boats.
&
oTHERS

MXSON

In the case of the Hase, 1 Rob. 240, one-thirdof
the salvage was given to the owner. In 1 Rob. 255,
The Amor Parentum, something less than one-fifth of
the salvage was given, to the ownet of th6 boat ; and in
the case of the San Bernardo, 1 Rob. 151, one-haLf was
given to the owner.
In France the rule. is two-thirds to the owners, and
one-third'to.the officers and crew ; the same proportioii
which was awarded in the case of the Mary Ford. In
2 ralin, d92, Art. .33. of the French. ordinances, the
words are, " S il u'y aucun contrat de socit6, les deux
"tiers appartiendront ceux qui auiont fourni le vais"seau avec les munitions et vituailles, et.l'autre aux
"officiers, matelots, et soldats," and in his comnrefits
upon this article, in page 395, he sayt the same rule is
also laid down as to private unarmed vessels.
In behalf of the Freightersof the Firm, it was urged
that their proportion of the sum to be allowed to the
owner and freighters, ought to be increased, because
they became liable to the owner for the freight even if
the ship Firm had been lost. The general principle is,
that the freight does not become payable if the ship isl
lost, unless there has been a deviation by the freighters.
But if 'there has been a deviation by the freighters for
their benefit, then they become liable for the freight
whether the ship arrives or not. There is the same law
upon charter-partis as upon polices of insurance. In
this case the stopping on the-ocean two days for the purpose of saving the Blaireauwas a deviation, and this
was done with the assent of the freighters by Charles
Christie, who was one of them, whereby they became
the insurers of the freight to Yachson, the owner of the
Firm. After the deviation, the whole risk of the freight,
to the amount of 8000 dollars, fell upon Christie .&
roung, and they ought to have salvage in proportion to

FEBRUARY, 1804.

257

that risk ; whereas it has been allowed them only upon
the amount.of the cargo valued at 4000 dollars.

MASON S
OTHEaS
V. .

SHIP BLAX.

In answer to these arguments, it was urged by the
counsel for 7achson, the owner of .h Firm, that he
clearly risked his ship ; for the underwriters were dis.
charged by three circumstances : 1st. By the stopping,*
which was a deviation for the benefit of the owners;
2d. By"taking in goods from on board the -Blaireau,
and thereby overloading the Firm; and, 3d. by diminishing the number of her crew; both of which last
circumstgnces increased the risk and. violated the, warranty of the policy.
But Yachson, the owner, not only risked his ship,
but his freight also ; for if the vessel had, been lost he
could not have recovered it: of Christieand2Toung, ihe'
freighters. The assent of Christie could not bind his
partner. It would have beeni an act in violation of the
partnership. Nor could a patol agreement alter the
charter-party, or dissolve the owner from the obligation
of his.contract..
,7acsoneven.run the risk of the cargo as well as of
the vessel and freight, and therefore ought to have the whole share of salvage, allotted to the owner and
freighters. For if Mason, who was the master of the
vessel, appbinted by 7ackson, the owner, had departed
from the terms of the charter-party, and thereby hazarded the cargo -and it had been lost, 7ackson would have
been liable to Christie and oung for the value of the
cargo.
A stopping, if not for the liurpose of the voyage, is a
deviation; and it cannot be' barratry when the act is
for the benefit of the owlers. To make it barratry it
must be a fraud upon the owners. Parl, 83, 1 Post.
Dict. 1 Strange, 581, Knight v. Cambridge, Cowper,
iThe
Ch. Yustie observed, that although it was admitted by coitdhse
that the stopping'was a deviation, yet that was'not to be consideried as
the 9pinion of the court; it being a point upon which they had great
doubt ; for if a stopping to relieve a vessel in distress would discharge
the underwriters, no master would be justified in using an exertion to
save a vessel in the most imminent danger of perishing.

Kk

aAxU.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TXAsOW &
OTHakS
V.

SHIP
i

BLAT.

143, P-aljo v. Wheeler. 1 7. R. 323, Nutt v.Bour.
dieu, 2 Str. 1183. Seaman'v. Foneieau, Park. 90, 91,
93. 6 T. R. 379. Moss v.Byrom, Park. 299.
In reply, it ras said, tba., the maxim is volenti non
ftfnjuria. Christie consented to the act which amount.
ed to a deviation, and therefore could maintain no action .against 7fckson grounded upon that .act. The
question is whether the freighters had not, by their owu
act, taken the risk of the freight upon themselves. In
case of the loss of the vessel and cargo, yackson might
have recovered the freight from Christieand roung, be.
cause they would have been the cause of the loss. There
is a difference between an assent to criminal acts, and a
mere nercantile assent. It is not- necessary that the
assent should be under seal. It was the act of the
freighters, and not a parol contrac', which would have
been the ground of Yachson's defence in any action which
Christie and oung niight have brought against him for
the cargo, in case of a loss ; and which also would have
been the ground of his action against them for the freight,
in the like event.
The next writ of error was that broughit by William
Mason, the master of the Firm ; in support of which it
was alleged that his act of embezzlement ought not to
prevetit a decree'in his favour for a share of the sal.
vage.
It is not, as has'been suggesied, to reward him for.
his crime that he asks a decree in his favour. He has
rendered niost important services, and he claims his
quantum meruit; a just compensation for his risk and
his labour. This court cannot inquire into the fact of
his crime. 'Itis sitting here to decide questions upon
the law of nations, and has no power to punish him for
a crime committed after the service was rendered. He
was the master of the ship, and no assistance could
have been rendered to the Blaireau without his permaission,
There is no obligation upon salvors to apply to a court
of admiralty. If the property saved is in their posseseion, they have a good right to hold it against all the

FEBRUARY, 18o4.
world but the owner; and he cannot recover It from MAsoN ASZ
OTHrRS
them without tendering reasoniable salvage. The salvor may convert the thing saved to his oivn use, and no StIy BLAI.
one can prevent him but the owner, who may tender
REA-.
reasonable salvage and bring his action of trover.
It would not discharge the owner from the obligation
of tendering salvage, to say, that the salvor had converted the thing saved to his own use; afortiori he
may take a part for"salvage and it shall be deducted out
of his reiisonable share. But even if he took a part with
intent to conceal and embezzle it, yet this cannot de-e
prive him of reasonable salvage. The most that can be
said is, that after being the sole means of saving the
ship and cargo, he did not discover all* the property,but intended to appropriate a part to his own use, not
amounting to one half his share of the salvage money.
The service rendered was complete. Whatever I
have justly earned upon a quanum meruit is a debt due
to me, for which I have a clear legal claim. If I labour
for a man, and afterwards commit a crime upon him or
his property, this can be no bar to my action for my wages. Suppose I.labour for a man, earn my wages, and
then set upon him and beat him, I am not thereby de.
prived of 'my wages. Suppose a waggoner employed to
carry 100 barrels of flour He carries part, and takes
one barrel to his own use; can he not recover for what
he carried .
When it. is necessary to resort to chancery, you must
go with clean hands ; but that is because you have not a
clear iegal right. The salvor has a clear legal right to
retain until salvage is paid. He does not go into a
court of admiralty as a court of chancery. He claims a
legal debt, a ceftain right.
But Captain Mason's condtict is represented as a crime.
However improper his conduct may have been, there is
no law which can punish him criminally for it. When
a man finds, or saves a thing and converts it to his own
use, he is not punishable by the law of nations, nor by
any municipal law, unless it be by some positive stao
tute.

260

SUPREME COURT U. S.

-But if he has committed a crime he is as liable to
punishment after having been deprive d of his salvage as
SHnp BLxj- he was before. It is t6 punish him tivice for the same
offence. You first fine him 3000 dollars, and then turn
REAM.
over to the cQurts of common law to be punished.
'him
If he has not committed a crime punishable by law, why
do you impose upon him this fine of 3000 dollars ?
MAsoN &
OTHRaS
V.

This court is sitting here as.a court of admiralty to
decide questions arising upon the law of nations, or
upon facts committed on the high seas. But the offence was committed within the body of a county, and
therefore this court cannot (even incidentally) holdju-'
risdiction of it.
If a man refuses to give up a thing saved on tender of
salvage, the remedy is only. trover or detinue ; and the
plaintiff can recover only the value after .deductingreasonable salvage.
If the goods saved are once landed, a court of admi.
ralty has no jurisdiction and cannot decree salvage.
The principie that subsequent conduct shall make a
man a trespasser ab initio, does not apply to the case of
salvage. It is applicable only to those cases where a
man has a particular right to go upon property for his
own benefit; not where the entry is for the benefit of
the other part-.
To the*se arguments-in favour of ffason, it was answered, that the principal objection tQ the decree as it
relates to him, is the want of jurisdiction because the
embezzlement was on land. But this does not appear
to be the case. The facts stated induce a presumption
that it was done at sea. But admitting that the embezzlement was on land, the court have'jurisdiction of the
principal object,' salvage ; and salvage is'a claim. of merit. In order to decide it, the court must judge of the
demerit, as well as of the merit of the salvor. It is certainly competent for the court, to ascertain quo anime
lie took the goods on )oard at sea. It is admitted that
he could not be indicted for it; or if he could, that this
court could not try it. But if he took them not animo

FEBRUARY, 1804.
salvandIl, but animr ftrand, it is clear upon principles
of law as well as policy that he is not entitledto salvage.
Salvage is grounded as' well on the trust which the
salvors have taken upon themselves, as on their risk
and labour. Should they, after saving the thing, wantonlv destroy it, or even suffer it to be lost by gross negligence, they would make themselves liable to the owner. Hence a duty and trust is imposed upon them by
the situation in. which they have placed themselves;
and if, regardless .ofthat duty, and in violation of that
trust, and of the principles of moral rectittide, they attempt to plunder, to rob, to embezzle the property,
they lose the character of salvors and approach towards
that of robbers and pirates. In such a case they cease
to be meritorious, they forfeit whatever right they miglit
have had, and to award them salvage, would be to reward their crimes. They ought not to receive salvage
upon that which they did not mean to save for the benefit of the owners, but to appropriate to their own use.
Salvage is given upon principles of public policy, to
encourage enterprise, honesty, and humanity ; and the
same principles of public policy will refuse it where these
are wanting. The interests of society require that the
line of distinction should be accurately marked betwee-4
right and wrong, virtue and vice, merit and demeri.]3y the laws of Oleron, if any person shall take any part
of the goods from shipwrecked persons, against their
will, and without their consent, they shall be exzon.municated, and suffer the punishment of thieves. 22 Fin.
Ab. 537.
In reply, it was said by the counsel for MOfaon, that the
goods were taken froim the Blaireau into the Firkn, animo
salvandi. It was done openly. They were sent by 17fason from the Blaireau,and taken into the Firm by Stephenson, the. mate. It seemed to be the expectation of all
that they were savingthe whole fnrthems-lvcs. But their
being mistaken in this respect ought not to prejudice their
claim to reasonable salvage.
The next point -was, whether 7jacihson, the owner of
the Firm, and the master of the apprentices, is not entitledI to receive their shares of the sadvage ; and, in be-

MASON
oT.ERS
SHir BLAXrAV.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
& half of the master, it was contended, thiat he is entitled
to all the earnings of his apprentices. Harg. Co. Lit. 117".
SHIPv.B3LAI. a. Note 1. 6 Mod. 69. Barber v. Dennis. 12 Mkod. 415. 1
Vez. 48. Meriton v. Hornsby. 1 Pez. 83. Hill v. A/len.
REA.
.In
these cases from Vezey, it was adjudged, that the
master was entitled, even in equity, to prize-money earned by the apprentice, although it was not earned in his
regular bisiness.
MAsoic
OTHYS

In' Enland, every owner of a ship is bound by law to
take a certain number of apprentices to the sea. To encourage thk master, the law gives him the whole earnings
of the apprentices.
This was not a voluntary act of the apprentices ; they
were bound to obey the orders of the captain. But this is
a question between British siubjects, not arising upon the
Jis.gentium, .but upon the municipal laWs of'England,
which this court, sitting as a court of admiralty, cannot
decide.
The decree is, that the money shall be paid to the apprentices only, or their proctors or attornies. But being
under age, they cannot appoint a proctor to submit to the
jurisdiction of ihis court, nor aft attorney to receive'their
share of the salvage.
In answer, it was said in behalf of the apprentices, that
the master's right attaches only to those earnings which
-flow from their ordinary occupation and industry, and not
given as a reward for an extraordinary and
t, any %nng
voluntary service renderedL When an apprentice goes oui
board a privateer, his business is to make prizes; it then
becomes his ordinary occupation, and thie master is entitled to his share of prize-money.
Suppose a gentleman riding out in his carriage; his
horses take fright, and run away; an apprentice runs out
of his master's shop and stops the horses, for which service the gentleman gives him 100 dollars. Can itbe contended:that the master has a right to the money? There
is no difference between that case and the present.
In the case of the Beaver, 3 Rob. 239, Sir W. Seott
distimguished between the master and his apprentice, and
gave a share expressly to the apprentice.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
In the present case, it was a voluntary act on the part of
the apprentices. The captain had no right to compel them
to risk thpir lives in this service.

MASO-M &
OTHERS

the Snxp V.
It was pot within
•,
B'LAX.

course of their, ordinary business. The cases cited, only
shew that the master is entitled to whattthe apprentice
earns in the regular course of business, whether it be that
to which he was bound, or that in which he chuscs to engage, in derogation of the rights of his master. But
salvage is not a regular business; it is not a matter of
contract. A mariner or an apprentice is bound only to do
such duty as appertains to the ship on the voyage. If the
master of the apprentices is entitled to their share of the
salvage, because they are subject to the orders of the captain, by the same rule he would be entitled to the shares
of all the seamen, for they are all equally under the command of the captain.
If the master claims a compensation for the risk of
the loss of the labour of his apprentices, his share of
the salvage for such risk, ought to be much less, than
the shares awarded to the apprentices, which were founded upon their services, and the hazard of their lives.
In reply, it was said by the counsel for Yackson, the
master of the apprentices, that in the case of the Beaver, Sir William Scott did not decide, whether the master was entitled to the share of his apprentice, or not,
but left that question to be determined by the laws of
the country.
The case of a gratuitous gift is different from that
of a right which has accrued, and which can be enforced by law ; and, therefore, the case stated for illustration does not apply.
If the captain has no right to send his seamen to the
assistance df a vessel in distress, it can never be in his
power to render a service; and he loses all command
over those who remain, because they may say, we
were only bound to labour with the assistance of the
others.
March 6th. 31arshall, Chief _ustice, delivered the
opinion of the court.

REA!..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
MASON &
OTHERS
V.
51XP

13LA!.-

RE&u.
u

In this case, a preliminary question has been made,
by the counsel for the plaintiffs, which ought not to be
disregarded. As the parties interested except the owners of the cargo of the Firm, ar6 not Americans, a
doubt ha3 been suggestea, respecting the jurisdiction of
the court,.aud upon a reference to authoritie's, the point
does -not appear to have been ever settled,. 'lhese
doubts, seem rather founded on the idea, that upon princIples -of general policy, this court' ought not to take
cognizance of a case entirelybetween foreigners, than
from any positive incapacity to do so. On weighing
the considerations drawn from public convenience,.those
in favour 9f the jurisdiction, appear much to overbalance
those agat rnit, and'it is the opinion of this court, that,
whatqv~r dhbts may exist in a case, where the juritdiction ,ira be "objected to, there ought to be none
where the parties assent to it.
0
TThe previous qxiestion being disposed of, -the court
WI1l proceed to consider tlhe several cases, which have
grown out.of the libel filed in. the district court.
t'The first to be decided, is that of the captain of the
Tirmi Who, by the sentence of the circuit Ciourt, was
declared'to have forfeited his right to salvage, by having
embezzled a part of the cargo of the Blaireau.
The' fact 3s not contested, but it is contended that
the embezzlement proved in the cause does not affect
the right of the captain to salvage.

The arguments in support of this position shall very
briefly be reviewed. It is insisted that the embezzlement was made, after the vessel was brought into port,
and this seems to be considered as ;L circumstance miterial to the influence which the embezzlement ought
to have in the case. So far as respects the fact, the
evidence is that the articles were brought on board the
Firm, when the Blaireau was found at sea, and the
fraud was detected in the port of Baltimore. When
the cqncealment took place does not appear, but it
would be straining very hard, to presume that it took
.place after arriving in port. It is not however, perceived-that this need be the subject of very minute

FEBRUARY, 1804.
inquiry, since the fact mus4 have occurre" before he
parted with the possession acquired by t .;-t, on the
merit of which.his claim for salvage is founded.

MAsoi;

V.

SHIP BLArREAU.

It is also stated, that this court his no jurisdiction

of the crime cQmmitted by the captain, and. cannot notice it even incidentally.
If.it was intended merely to prove, that this court
could not convict captain kason of felony, and punish
him for that offence, there certainly could never have
been a doubt entertained on the subject; but when it
is inferred from thence, that the court can take no notice of the fact, the correctness of the conclihsion is
not perceived. It is believed to be universally true,
that when a claim of any sort is asserted in court,
all those circumstinces which go to defeat the claim,
and to show that the pdrson asserting it has not a right
to recover, may and ought to be considered. The real
question, therefore, is, whethep the- claim for salvage is
affected by the act of embezzlement; and if it is, the
incapacity of this court to proceed criminally against
the captain, forms no objection to their examining afact, which goes.to the very foundation of his right.
The legal right of the salvors is insisted on, and it is
said, that in trovei for the ship and cargo by the owners,
salvage would be allowed to those who had rendered
the service, and then openly converted them to their
own use.

Yet the jury, trying the action, would determine on
the right to salvage, and would inquire into any fact
which went to defeat that right.
WhateOer shape then may be given to the question,
it still resolves itself into the inquiry, whether the embezzlement of part of the cargo, does really inteimingle itself with, and infect the whole transaction in
such a manner,'as to destroy any claim founded on it.
The counsel for this plaintiff contend.., that the merits of Captain Mkason as a salvor. are, i imaired by
upon hit:

&

OTHZRS

SUPREME COURT -T. S.
& again'st a debt, and the clalvn for salvage is in nature of
a debt.

MASo.
OTHZRS
V.

SHP BLAXEAUx.
'salvage

This leads t6an inquiry into the principles bnwhich
is dlowed. If the property of an individual
on land le xposed to the greatest peril, -and be saved
by the voluntary exertions of any person whatever; if
valuable goods be rescued from a house in flames, at
the imiinent hqzard of life by. the salvor, no remuneration in the shape of salvage is allowted. The act is
highly Meritorious, and the service is as great as if
rendered at. sea. Yet the claim for salvage could not,
perhaps, be supported. It is certainly not made. Let
precisely the same service, at precisely the same hazard1, be rendered at sea, and a very ample reward will
be bestowed in he courts of justice.
If we search for the motives producing this apparent
prodigality, in rewarding services rendered at sea, we
shall find them in a liberal and enlarged policy. The
allowance of a very ample compensation for those service,, (one very much exceeding the mere risk encountered, and labour employed in effecting them,) is interfded as an inducement to render them, which 'it is for the
public interests, and for the general interests of humanity, to hold forth to those who naviga.te the ocean. It
is perhaps difficult, on any other priihciple, -to account
satisfactorily for the very great difference which is
made'between the retribution allowed for services at
sea and on land: neither will a fair calculation of the
real hazard or labour, be a foundation for such a difference ; nor will the benefit received always account
for it.
It a wise and humane policy be among the essential
principles, which induce a'continuance in the allowancp
of that liberal compensation which is made fcr saving
a vessel at sea, we must at once perceive the. ground on
which it ii refused to the person whose conduct ought
to be punished instead of being rewarded. That same
policy which is so. very influential, in producing thie
very liberal allowances made by wkay of salvage, requires
that those allowances should be withheld from persons,
who avail themselves of the opportunity,- furnished

FEBRUARY, 1804.

267

them by the possession -of the property of another, MAso-N Aan
oT-1s
v.
to embezzle that property. While the general interests
of society iequire that the most powerful inducements snip BLAZ.
i&.
should be held forth to men, to save life and property
about to perish.at sea, they also require that thfose inducements should likewise be held forth-to a fair and
upright conduct, with regard to the objects thus pre.,
served. This would certainly justify the reduction of
the claim, to a bare compensation on the principles of
a real quantum, reruit, and the losses irt the cargo,
which may be imputed to the captain, would balance
t' ot account, if,, as is contended by his counsel, -the
court c5uld not, on priniciples generally received, consi'der the act of embezzlement as a total forfeitire of
all right to salvage.
But the case of a mariner, who forfeits his right to
wages by embezzling any part of the cargo, is precise.
ly in point. That case stands on the same principles
with this, and is a'full authority for this, since it cannot
be denied, that the right to salvage is forfeited by the
same act that would forfeit the right to wages.
In the case of. Mr. Stevenson, the fact is not clearly
ascertained. If the embezzlement was fixed upon him,
he as well as the captain ought to forfe it his salvage.
But it is not fixed. Yet there are circumstances in the
case, which, if he stands acquitted of the charge 'of
unfairness, do certainly so implicate him in that of
carelessness As to destroy his pretensions to superior
compensation, and reduce his claim to a level with that
of a common mariner.
The decree of the circuit court, being approved so
far as respects Captain Mason and Mr. Stevenson, the
8gneral rate of salvage allowed by that decree, is next
to be considered.
There is certainly no positive rule, which governs
absolutely the rate of salvage. Yet in fixing it, the common usage of commercial nations, and especially of.
those whose subjects are interested in the particular
case, ought unquestionably to be regarded. In France, it
appears, that a service like that rendered the owners of the

268
MAsoH

SUPREME COURT U. 9.

& Bklireau,would have been compensated with one-third of
the value of the vessel and cargo. In Eng'landtheprin.

OTHERS

SHIP BLAZ.
RZA.

ciple of reciprocity, if not adopted, is much-respected,
and to judge from tlxe tenor of their cases on this subject,- it ii. fairly presumable that the salvage which
would be allowed in an English court in a case like the
presenht, -,would.not greatly vary from that which appears
to be made 'by the ordinances of France.,
This -is unquestionably a' ase of:'great' merit, .'and a
Very li.eral salvage ouglt to be:alo*edL :Ait that al-"
19ed both by the distict and circuit. courts, appears %
exceed any sum whichthose.principles, which ought to
be resorted to as guides in the case, will .justify.'
"Wmong the various -adjudicatiois of the- couits of admiralty in England,t6 which country the salvors beiong,
no one has been fotind where so large an allowance has
been made; and in Frqnce• the nation of the owners of
the property saved, a positive ordinance is understood.
to. regulate- this subject, and to fix the salvage at one.
third of the gross value of what has been preserved.
Taking the whole subject, into consideration, the
court i; disposed- to reduce the rate of salvage, hnd to
allow about two-fifths instead of three-fifths to the salor. --The vessel and cargo will then be really charged,':in conequence of .the savings produced by the forfeiiure of the captain's clim, and the reduction of those
of the mate and Mr. Christie,,with not more than onethird of the groos value of the property.
1i-thq'dstribtton of this sum, the court does not
ent*e"y approvee-the -decree which has been rendered
in the circuit cour.
S.Te proportion. allowed the owners of the Firm, and.
her cargo, is -not equal to the risk incurred, nor does it
utnish an inducement to the owners of vessels to permit
theik captains to save those found -in distress at sea, in
any.degree proportioned to the inducements offered to
the-:'ctains and crew.. The same policy ought to ex,
tenid.to"all concerned, the sanii rewards for a service
desigfied to be encouragevd, and it is surely no reward
Sto a mani, made his ov. insurer without his own con-

FEBRUARY, 1804.
gent, to return him very little more than the premium
he had advanced.
The common course of decisions, too, has established
a very different ratio for the distribution of salvage
money, and the court is of opinion, that those decisious
are founded on substantial considerations.
The owners of the vessel and cargo, in this case, wili
be allowed one-third of the whole amount of salvage
decreed, which third is to be divided between them in
the proportion established in the district court, it being
in our opinion very clear, that the owner of the vessel
continued to risk the freight, after as much as before
the assent of Mr. Christie, to the measures necessary
for saving the Blaireau. That assent could only be
construed, to charge him with the hazards to be encountered by the cargo, and not to vary the contract respecting the freight.
The proportions established, by the decree of the
circuit court, between those who navigated the Firm,
and those who navigated the Blaireau, and between the
individuals in each ship, are all approved with this exception. The case exhibits no peculiar merits in Mr.
Christie, and therefore, his allowance is not to exceed
that of a seaman on board that vessel.
On the rights of Toole and the apprentices, this court
entirely concurs in opinion with the district and circuit courts.
There was certainly no individual, who assisted in
bringing in the Blaireau, that contributed so much to
her preservation as Toole. Every principle of justice,
nd every feeling of the heart, must arrange itself on
the side of his claim.
But it is contended, that the contract he had entered
into bound him to continue his endeavours to bring the
vessel into port, and that the principles of general policy,
forbid the allowance of salvage to a mariner belonging
to the ship which has been preserved.

MASON &
OTHERS
V7.

SnIP BLAZREAU.

SUPREME COURT U4 S.
MAPoR &
oTgaZs

SH,.I BLAX.
RZAV.

\hhY-.,/

The claims upon him, on the ground of contract, are
urged with a very ill grace indeed. It'little becomes those
who devoted him to the waves to set up a title to his further services. The captain, .who was entrusted by the

owner with power over the vessel and her crew, had discharged him from all further duty under his contract, as
far as any act whatever could discharge him, and it is not
for the owner now to revive this abandoned claim.

Those- principles of policy which withhold from the
mariners of a ship their wages on her being lost, and
which deny then salvage for saving their ship, however
great the p~eril may be, cannot apply to a case like this.There is no danger that a single seaman can be induced or
enabled, by the prospect of the reward given to Tooe, to
prevail on the officers and crew of a vessel to abandon her
to the mercy of the waves, for the purpose of. entitling
the person who remains in her to salvage, if she should
be fortunately preserved.
The claim of the master to the salvage allowed his ap.
prentices, is ond which the court feels no disposition to
support, unless the law of the _;se be clearly with him.
The authorities, cited by his counsel, do not come .up to
this case. The right of the master to the earnings of his
apprentice, in the way of his business, or of any other business which is substituted for'it, is different from a right
to his e.xtraordinary earnings which do not interfere with
the profits the master may legitimately derive from his service. Of this latter description is salvage. It is an extra beneit, the ieception of which does not deduct from
the profits the master is entitled to from his service. But
the case cited from Robinson, where salvage was actually
decreed to an apprentice, is in point. The counsel does
not appear to the court to construe that case correctly,

when he says, that it does not determine ihe right as between the master and the apprentice. The fair under
standing of the case is, that the money was decreed to the
apprentice, and was to be paid for his benefit.
Considering the case strictly on principle, that portion
of the salvage allowed ought to be paid to the master,
which would compensate him for having risked the future
service of his apprentice; but as this would not amount
to a very considerable sum, and as a liberal salvage has

FEBRUARY, 1804.

271

already been decreed to the master, this further allowance
will nt be made in this case.
Upon these, principles the foll9wing decree is to be entered.
" This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record of the circuit court, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof this court doth reverse the
sentence of the circuit court, so far as the same is iconsistent with the principles and -opinions herein after
stated=
"This court is of opinion, that too large a proportion
of the net proceeds of the ship Blaireau and her cargo,
has been allowed to the salvors, and that 21,400 dollars is
a sufficient retribution for the service performed, which
sum is decreed to the claimaiits, except captain .Mason
whose rights are forfeited by embezzling a part of the
cargo, in full of their demands. In distributing the sum
thus allowed, this court is of opinion, 'that the owners of
the Firm and her cargo, ought to receive one-third of the
whole amount thereof, of which one-third the proportion
of the owner of the vessel ought to be to that of the'
owner of the cargo, as the value of the yessel and freight
is to the value of the cargo-:-that is, as, 18 to 4.
"1It is further the opinion of the court that the remaining two-thirds of the salvage allowed, ought to be divided
between those who navigated both the Firm and t6e Blaireau, excluding Captain ilason, in the proportions directed I4y the circuit court, with this exception, that the sum
to be received by Charles Christie, is to be the sane with
that teceived by a seaman on board the Blaireau.
"In every thing not contrary to the principles herein contained, the decree of the circuit court is affirmed, and the
cause is remanded to the said circuit court to be further
proceeded in, according to the directions given. The
parties are to pay their own costs."

MAsoN &
OTHEaS
V.

SHIP

Lr

REAV.

