SUPREME COURT U. S.
Du,.m

DUNLOP & CO. v. BALL.

BALL.

THIS was a writ of error to the circuit
the
district of olubia sitting
in Alexandia. Thecourt
only of
ques-

&Co.
V.

B

L

To induce a

presumption
ofpayment
from the age
ofa bbnd, 20
years must

tion in the case arose upon the following bill of exceptions.
"In this case the plaintiffs were admitted to be, and al-.
" ways to have been British subjects residing in Great" Britain, and the defendant to be and have been a native
"and always a citizen of the;pow state of Virginia, and

have elapsed
exclu.'ve (f
in
day of
this suit was commenced on the
the period of
the plaintiff's "the year 1802. The debt was contracted in 1773, in
disability.
"Virginia, at which time the bond was executed on which
Legal impedi- " the suit was brought. It was also admitted that the
mnts to the

"plaintiffs had an agent authorised to collect their debts,
recovery of
British debts "c so far as the plaintiffs could authorise the same to be colexisted in V-1 lected, during the whole time from the date of the bond
Siia until the " to this day ;-which agent resided in the county in which
year 1793.
"the defendant lived; also open war subsisted between

"4Great-Britainand Virginia, from the 19th day of April
"1775, until September 1783.
' Further to repel the presumption of payment, the
plaintiffs produced the followihg acts of the general as"sembly of 'Virginia upon the subject of British debts
"contracted before the peace which acts are in the words
"following : (Here were inserted the acts dited in If-arch
i'1785; ad Dec. 1787 ; -May 1781, and Nov. 178.) "And the 4&h article of the treaty of peace of 1783, and
"cthe 6th article of the treaty of peace of 1794, between
c Great-Britainana the United States." -The plaiutiffs
&9' 'aveevidence that William Wilson, their agfit, deliver£ "vet the boiid to William Hunter,jun. in 177q, . to be
6oIgected, at which time he (Williatn Wilson) went.e Etk
.+ope. Aid when he returned in 1184 he received baet
the bond from W. Hunter. Some time 5fter the year
1789, he delivered the paid bond to Yames .7ohnson for
collection, who returned it, . and neither of those persons
tatd that the money, or Ay part was collected: that
fohnison died in 1797.

Wheieupdn the counsel for die 'defendant prayed the
court to instruct the jury, that from the length of time
.fey'ought to presume payment of the aforesaid bond.Upon which the court instrteted the jury that from the

FE9IRUA.RlY, 1804.

18f

length of time stated in-tbe facts above agreed on, the • Dulov
Co.
bond, in law, is presumed satisfied, unless they should find
from the evidence that interest vas paid on the bond withBALL.
ii 20 years from the 5th of- September 1775, (the time of
the last payment) or that a suit, or demand was made on
the said bond within 20 years from the last mentioned
-time, exclusive (in both cases) of..five years, five months,
and twenty days, .taken
out of the act of limitations.
.To which opinion of the court the plaintiffs by their.
counsel except, &c.
"
lii
b t
.
The defendant relkd on the plsa of payment, and on.the
length bf time to support it.
E. J. LEz, fior plainti
in error, relied prindpally
upon the legal impediments which existed in Virginia, to
r6vel thd presumption arising from the lapse of time. ,

-

lie contended that the r'ule that -the'lapse of 0' years.
<shall iduce' a.presumption of payment of a bond,-is not an
absolute a-d arbitrary rule, but at most is onlyprimafacie'evidence, and induces nothing m.ore than a presum.p-tion.'Any ch .uhnstances which can. reasonably account for
the delay of the plaintiffs in prosecuting their right, without
supposing the baudto be.satisfied, may be given in evidence to destroy that presumption. ".
From th. yeat 1774 to 1791, the plaintiffs were incapa"citated to. maintain a suit and to recover the money ,by
legal.ptess.
"'The first impediment was caused by the expiration of
the fee bill 6n the i2th Of December 1774, whereby the
courts of justice.were shut against all persons. This impediment was general and continued until the commencement ofthe waf, on the 19th of April 1775.
Proln this periol titil the peace in-September 1783, the
ot~wa srevented Britie subjects fombinging suits
urN c ' e0rs,
if no other impediment had existecd The
firs\ at of assembly of Virginia, applying to British credtor in partic lar is that passed in October 1777, seques-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
DuxLo)

&
Co.
. V.

BALL.

;-q

tering British property and suspending executions, until
the further order of the legislature, in all cases where a
British subject was plaintiff, and a citizen of the cornJmonwealth defendant.-Chanceryrevisalof laws, p 64.
The 2d act of impediment is that of November 1781,
p. 147, to suspend executions zn certain cases.

ch. 22, s. 3,

The 3d is the act of M1ay 1782, ch. 44, s. 2, p. 165, to
repeal so much of a former act as suspends the issuing.
executions upon certain judgments.until December 1783.
The 4th is the act of October 1782, to amend an act entitled an act to repeal so much of a former act as suspends
the issuing of executions on certain judgments until Devember 1783.
The 5th is the act of December 1783, ch. 45. p.' 182, to
revive and continue in force the several acts of assembly
for suspending the issuing of executions on certain judgments until December 1783, p. 218. This last act expir-edin Yuly 1784.
If the legal impediments had ceased in the year 1784
with the expiration of this act, we should still have been
in time with our suit; for itis brought within twenty years
from that time. But these impediments did not cease at
that period, but were -still coitinued by the acts of 1785
and 1787."
In addition to these legal impediments created by the
acts of the legislature, were the decisions ofjuries and
courts of law who supported the plea in barthat the plaintiff was a British subject, for several years afterwards.
The report of the commissioners under the 6th art. of
the treaty with Great-Britainmentions a number of cases
decided in the courts of Virginia to that effect, from which
two only are supposed necessary, to be cited.
The first is the case of Warwick's administratorsv. Gashins, in Lancaster county, upon the plea that the testator
was a Britishsubject: the suit was dismissed in Mdarch
1788.

FEBRUARY, 1804.
The next cage is that of Gieson, Donaldson& Hamilton
plaintifs, against.Bannister'iexecutors, defendants, in
August 1791, in which the plea
PrinceGeorge's county,
that the plaintiffs were British subjects was sustained.
The fact is notorious that it was the general opinion of

the inhabitants of the state, and of juries that a British debt
could not be recovered. Thisis acknowledged to be the
case in Mr. Chancellor Wythe's report of the case of Pa.te
v. Braxton,p. 127, in the year 1793, which was the first
in which it had beeh decided in any of the superior courts
that a British debt was recoverable.
Ch.-J. There can be no doubt of this
-,&RSH&LL,
fact. The only difficulty is to shew that it requires 20
years after the removal of the impediments, to create the
presumaption of payment. It may be a doubt, whether
the same time after the removal of the iZpediments, is necessary to raise the presumption, as if the bond had borne
date at the time of such removal
-Swann, for defendant, contended that the time between
the 19th of April, 1775, and Sept. 1783, being deducted
from the age of the bond when put in suit, the residue being
about 20 years, and 6 months, should be considered as the
lapse of tiiewhich was to induce the presumption that the
disability of the plaintiff ceased o the ratification of the-treaty of peace. There are no case decided in the superior
courts of rlrginia,in which the plea of disability of the
plaintiff, as being a British subject, has been allowed since
thepeace. The cases cited are county court cases, anado
not appear in the record. They are facts which this court
cannot notice.
But if we travel out of the record, other cases may be.
cited from other counties, in which contrary decisions
have taken place. It is a fact that in Fairfax county,
where the defendant always resided, British debts could
always be recovered since the year 1783. If the cases
cited against us are admitted to rebut the presumption,
this fact is equally strong, and ought to be admitted to sup.port it.
Lee in reply.

Although it was.stipulated by the treaty

DUNLO*

&V.Co.

BALL.

184
DuNI-oP
& Co.
V.
BALL.

k_

m.

SUPUME COURT U. S.

that all legal irnpediments to the recovery of debts should
be removed, yet that did nbt p1ter the .existing state of
ihings. The obnoxious, laws remained in full force in
practice. Thefacrwas, that the leal impediments were
not removed. We are not now to consider what the law
6ught to have been, but what it was in.practice. For if
the impossibility of recoverin g the debt still remained, it
destroyed all presumption arising from the japse of time.
Feb. 28. MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of
the court. The only circumstance which could create a
question in this case is, that twenty years had not elapsed,
exclusive of the period during which the plaintiffs were
under a legal disability to recover, before the action-was
brought.
Th e principle, upon NVhich the presumption of payment arises from the lapse of time, is a reasonable principle, and may be rebutted by any facts which destroy the
reason of the rule.
'That no presumption could arise during a state of war,
in which the plaintiff was an alien enemy, is-too clear to
admit of doubt. But it is not so clear that upoh a bond
so old as this, the same length of time after the removal
of the disability, is necessary to raise the presumption, as
would exequired if the bond had borne date at the.time
of such removal.

It appears from the decisions 9f the.courts of iZirginia,
:from the pleas in bar...mthe federal ,3ourts, and particu-

larly from the observations of the chancellor of .Vir"nia,
in the case cited, that it was the general understan.ding.of
the inhabitants of that state, that British debts could not
be -recovered: And, uptil the ygar -179, t.re was no
.decision of 4dJe-.spperor-qprs..that su . t8bw.ere recoverable,

The only qqestion is, .w eth.r, in case.of n~ol"d debt,
the. sme.tirqe-is-reqpe~dltp aj§.thepr.suvmpt..o,
as in
the case.of:4 debt 4cgrjng .'-e-.le. irqped izngts have
been removed.,
In-such.a case it is not easy to. establ]ish a new rule, and

FEBRUARY, 1804.
the court think it best. to adhere to the old decisions, that 3DULO,
&Co.
twenty years must have elapsed exclusive of the period of
V.
the plaintiff's disability ; and are of opinion that the circuit cburt erred in directing the jury that payment *ought k
to be presumed.
The judgment of the court is entered upon the minutes
in the following terms:
The court having heard the arguments of counsel, and
maturely considered the same, is of opinion (and do adjudge, order, and decree accordingly) that the circuit
court erred in instructing the jury " that from the length
of time they were to presume the bond, in the record
meitioned, to be satisfied, unless they should find, from
the evidence, that interest was paid on the b6nd within
twenty years from the 5th of.September 1775, (the time
of the last payment) or that a suit or demand was made
on said bond within twenty years from the last mentioned
time, exclusive, in both'cases, bf five years, five months,
and twenty days, taken outl of the act of limitations ;"
there being circumstances in this case which oppose the
presumption which woald have arisen from the length of
time which has elapsed since the date of the bond.
' And this court doth further adjuge, order, and decree,' that this cause be u'emanded to the said circuit court,
to be .there tried, with directiohs that there is no presumption of payment of the said bond, as directed by the said
circuit court,

BLAKENEY*v. EVANS.

BLAKENEY
V.

EVA14S.

A SPECIAL action of assumpsit was brought, in the

Circuit Court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alex- If a man a.
andria, by Evans against Bleney, upon the following greas to do
and he does it
jointly with
c I will rent of Mr. Evans thirty-one feet of ground ot another, he is

written agreement

entitled to

, still
"King-street ccby one hundred feet deep to a ten feet recover upot
"alley, for which lot I will pay him £13, 10, 0, per the agreement.
"annum in yearly payments, the rent commencing fr9m
"the ist day of November, 1799.

