FEBRUARY, 1804.
the court think it best. to adhere to the old decisions, that 3DULO,
&Co.
twenty years must have elapsed exclusive of the period of
V.
the plaintiff's disability ; and are of opinion that the circuit cburt erred in directing the jury that payment *ought k
to be presumed.
The judgment of the court is entered upon the minutes
in the following terms:
The court having heard the arguments of counsel, and
maturely considered the same, is of opinion (and do adjudge, order, and decree accordingly) that the circuit
court erred in instructing the jury " that from the length
of time they were to presume the bond, in the record
meitioned, to be satisfied, unless they should find, from
the evidence, that interest was paid on the b6nd within
twenty years from the 5th of.September 1775, (the time
of the last payment) or that a suit or demand was made
on said bond within twenty years from the last mentioned
time, exclusive, in both'cases, bf five years, five months,
and twenty days, taken outl of the act of limitations ;"
there being circumstances in this case which oppose the
presumption which woald have arisen from the length of
time which has elapsed since the date of the bond.
' And this court doth further adjuge, order, and decree,' that this cause be u'emanded to the said circuit court,
to be .there tried, with directiohs that there is no presumption of payment of the said bond, as directed by the said
circuit court,

BLAKENEY*v. EVANS.

BLAKENEY
V.

EVA14S.

A SPECIAL action of assumpsit was brought, in the

Circuit Court of the district of Columbia, sitting at Alex- If a man a.
andria, by Evans against Bleney, upon the following greas to do
and he does it
jointly with
c I will rent of Mr. Evans thirty-one feet of ground ot another, he is

written agreement

entitled to

, still
"King-street ccby one hundred feet deep to a ten feet recover upot
"alley, for which lot I will pay him £13, 10, 0, per the agreement.
"annum in yearly payments, the rent commencing fr9m
"the ist day of November, 1799.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
-- '-zm

v.

" " I will also agree to find work and materials in my

'- lime for. Mi-. Evans's-houses, provided he will find the
in his line for my house I intend to build on the
" abovedescribed lot, each work and materials to be
"measured and valued agreeably to he customary mode
• in Alexandria, and whatever balance there may be on
"either side 2t any time they chuse to have the-work
"and materials valued, is to be paid in cash on demand.
"Signed, Abel Blakeney.-7ohn Evans. September 3d

S".same

" 17991)

The action was brought to recover'a balance due upon
thIs valuation. The defendant pleaded the general issue.
The plaihitiff produced in evidence the following writing: -"Alexandria, March 23d, 1802. We the subscriberg being called bn by Messrs. -Evans and Burford on
the one part, and Abel Blakeney on the other, to measure and value sundry jobs of work done by the parties,
each for the other, and have dpne the same to the best
of our knowledge, and upon comparing the accounts find
a balance in favour of. Evans and Burford, of fifty-two
.
pounds, ten shillings, and one penny." -Signed, "1Dan
iel Bishop-IsaacMcLean," and proved by the said Isaac
McLean, that the work and materials were measured'and
valued dgreeably to the customary mode in Alexandria,
anl that according to such measure and value,, that
balance was due from the defendant to the plaintiff.That he and the said Bishop were called upon by Evan&
and Blakeney and not by the said Burford; but that he
was present, and the witness understood from all the
parties that he was interested in the work. To the admission of this evidence the defendant took a bill of
exceptions, and brought a writ of error.
March Ist. The transcript of the record was submit.
ted to the Court without argument, who afrmedthe
.judgment,Vith ten per cent damages and costs, observing
that the meaning of the agreement was, that each party
should procure the work to be done, and not that they
should do it personally.

