SUPREME COURT U.'S.
OGDE'N

V.

OGDEN, ADMINISTRATOR OF CORNELL,

LEDGE.

V.
SBLACKLEDGE,

The ninth
of the act of

EXECUTOR OF SALTER.

THIS was a case certified to this court from the cir-

Assembly of
Nf.Carolina, cuh court of North-Carolina, under the act of Congress
passed in 1715 of 29th April, 1802, vol. 6, p. 89, ยง 6. which provides
which directs for the ev ent of an opposition in the opinions of the two
that unless the
creditors ofde. judges, who are.by law to holdcthe circuit court.
ceased persons

shall make
their claim
within7 years

after the death.
of the debtor,
be
they
shallwas
barred,
repealed by

The certificate is in the following form, viz.

"United States of America,
"North-Carolina District.
At a circuit court of the United States, begun and

"held at Raleigh for the district of NorthC-arolina, on
the act of
1789, c. 23, "Wednesday the twenty ninth of December, in the year
notwithstand. "of our Lord, one thousand eight hundred and two,, and
yar of A eiand
oi the
ind the act of
inthe twenty-seventh year of American Independ1799, which
"ence.
declares the
contrary.
A legislature

cannot declare
what the law
was, hut what
it shallbe.

" Present, the Honorable 7ohn Marshall

I Esquires.
and
Henry Potter, J

The act of

"1Robert Ogden, administrator de bonis non, with the
limitation was
suspended as "cwill annexed of Samuel Cornell,
to British cre.
ditors during

tue war.

V.

"Richard Blackledge, executor of Robert Salter, de" ceased.
"State of the pleadings.
"This is an action of debt upon a bond given by the
"1defendant's testator, to the testator of the plaintiff, on
"the 2d day of March, 1775.
"The defendant, among other pleas, pleads in bar an
"act of the General Assembly of the State of North-Ca" rolina, passed in the year 1715,: entitled, an act con"cerning proving wills and granting letters of admi"nistration; and to preventfraudsin the management of

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

273

"intestate estates; the 9th section of which is in the fol-

OGDri

"lowing words :

V.
BLACYLEDGE.

"And be itfurther enacted that creditors of any per"sons deceased, shall make their claim within seven years
"after the death of said debtor, otherwise such creditor
"shall be forever barred.
" To which plea the plaintiff replies, in substance, that
"the plaintiff's testator was, at his death, a British sub"ject, and the debt within the true intent and operation of
"the fourth article of the treaty of peace concluded be"tween the King of GreatBritain and the UnitedStates.
" To this replication the defendant demurs, and the
"plaintiffjoins in demurrer.
" This case coming on to be argued at -this term, it
"occurred as a question, whether the act of Assembly,
"recited in the plea of the defendant, was, under all the
"circumstances stated, and the various acts passed by
"the legislature of North-Carolina,a bar in this action.
" On which question, the opinions ofthe judges were
opposed.
"Whereupon, on a motion of the plainti'ff, by hit
"counsel, that the point on which the disagreement hath
"happened may, during the-term, be stated under the
"direction of thejudges, and certified, under the seal of
"the court, to the Supreme Court, to be finally decided.
" It is ordered, that the foregoing state of the plead"ings and the following statement of facts, which is
"made under the direction of judges, be certified, ac"cording to the request of the plaintiff, by his counsel,
" and the law in that case made and provided; to wit,
" First. That Samuel Cornell, the plaintiff's testator,
U was, and till his death continued to be, a subject of
"the King of GreatBritain; and the defendant's testa"tor was, and till his death continued to be, a citizen of
"Worth-Carolina.

'.

u.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

124'
6c z
B3LAK.

LEDGS.

!"Second..

That the defendant's testator died in the

" year one.thotisand seven hundred and eighty; and the
defendant, in the same year, was qualified as executor.
"Third. That the plaintiff sued out his writ in this
"suit, on the fifth day of October, in the year of our
" Lordi one thousand seven hundred and ninety-eight.
" UnitedStates of America,

)

"North Carolina district.
" I William Henry Haywood, clerk of the
"circuit court for the district of Xorth-Caroll.
Seal-of
,na do hereby certify the foregoing to be a
it courC copy from the minutes. Given under my hand

V.Carolin:,and seal of office, at Raleigh, on the fifth day

" of Yanuary, in the year of our Lord, one
"thousand eight hundred and two.
"W . H. Haywood, clerk."*
Harperand Martin, for the plaintiff.
The only question in this care is, whether the plaintiff is barred by the ninth section of the act of Assembly
of North-Carolina,passed in 1715. (IredelPs digest of
the laws of N. Carolina,p. 30.)
"1.The first inquiry involved in this general question
is, whether that section was repealed before its operation upon the present case. We contend that it was repealed., 1st. By the act of Assembly of North Carolina,
passed in April 1784, c. 23, p. 49.2.t which makes a
This being the first case under the late act of congress, the certificate
mid statement are copied as a precedent which may be of use in future
practice.
upplemental
pA
act to an at entitled anact forproing of villa, andgran.
ting adminittration, and to precent frauai in tMe nanagementof intes.
e

tat s' esta.

1. Whereas it is enacted in the ninth section of the said act, 1, That
fweditors of any person deceased shall make their claims in seren years
after the death of such debtor, otherwise such creditor shall be forever
barred; and if it shall happen that any sum or sums of money, shall
L- fe remain in the hands of any administrator after the term of seven

FEBRUARY 184.

2175

different provision on the same subject. Its preamble
refers to the ninth section of the act 'of 1715, and the
second'section makes the estate liable to creditors witheut being subject to limitation or time," 'which is i nega.tive mode of expression. and cleqrly repeals the former
provision in the act of 1715. But even without such
negative words, a statute may be repe aled by a subsequent act which makes a different provision on the same
subject. 4. Bac. Ab. Tit. statute.' And although the act
of 1784 mentions only administrators, yet it evidently
applies to executors also. Indeed, the term administrators comprehends executors, for every executor is an
administrator ;, they both plead plene administravit,and.
the only difference between them is; th-t one is created
by the act of law, and the other by the act of the partV.
Even the statute of treasons, 25 Ed. 3. Stat. 5, c. 2. in
which it is declared to be petit treason "where a setrant
slayeth his master," has always been construed to 'coinprehend a servant who kills his mistress, or his master's

wife; a fortiori in a remedial statute shall the term
ad.ninis-rator include executor. If the ninth section of
the act of 1715 was repealed by the act of !784, the
former was no bar to thplaintiff's action; for the seven*
years had not elapsed, after the death of the defendaxt'.
testator, before the repeal took place.2d. But if the act of 1784 did not operate as a repeal,
yet it is contended that the act of 1789, -c. 3. Iredell's
digest, p 676. clearly repealed the clause of limitation
in the act of 1715. The 6th section enacts, " that alt
years shall be expired, and not recovered by any of kn to the deceased, or
by any creditor in that time,'the same shall be paid to the church wardens and vestry, to and for the use of the parish, where the said money
shall remain." And as there are no churctl wardens and 'estry to make
claim in such cases. .
II. Be it therefore enacted, &c.That as soon as an administrator sivll
have finished his administrat;on-on such estates, and no creditor shall
n.mke any further demand, the residue of such estate sh:dl be deposited in
the treasury, and there remain without interest, subject to the claim of'
creditors and the lawful representatives of such decedent, 'Without beiing.
eubject to limitationor time.

III. And be itfurtkhr enacted, &c. That *thetreasurer is hereby au.
thorised and empowered, in all sach cases, to demand payment of such
administrator, and on refusal or delay, to give notice of thirty days W0
appear and shew cause why he refuses or delays payment, and on nonappearance to enterup judgment ani thaeron proceed to execution for the
purposes aforesaid.

OGDl%
V.

Bi.icr.
LrDG.

'216
Q~nve
LE DE.
.

SUPREME- COURT U. S.

"lawsand parts of laws that come within the purview
" anrd meaning of this act, are hereby declared void and
of no effect." The only question upon this law is,
whether the 9th sectioni of the act of 1715 comes within
its purview and meaning; and to shew that it does, it
is only necessary to read and compare the two acts together.*
But the legislature of North-Carolina passed a lay- in
1799, (c. 2o,) which declares, in.substance, that notiVLa tanding the-6th section of the act of 1789, the 9th
se.lun ot tree act of 1715 was not repealed. "1his however cantiot affect the present case, for this action was
-

An act to amend an act entitled an act concrerning proving of zills and
gring lettere 9faiminiaration,and to preventfrauds in tI maanage
"
.
mant of intestates" estates.
ยง 4. ' And be it further enacted, &'. Thatthe creditors of any person
or persons deceased, if he or they rAide within this state, sh'all,
wtlthiii
"two years, and if they reside without the limits of this state, shall
"within three years, floithe quialificat-on of the executors or adminis.
"trators, exhibit and m.ke demand of 44er respective abcounts, debts
"and claims of every kind whatever, tj such executors or administra"tors ; and if any creditor or creditors shall hereafter fail to demand and
.::bring stut bri
the recoverj of his, her..their debt as above specified,
within the aforesaid time limited, he, "ie or they shall be forever de.
"barred from the recovery of his, her or their debt in any court of law or
"equity, or before any justice of pc.mcc within this state."
There is a saving to infants, p..,s as non compo ,- and femes covert,
and a prov'so that the delay shall not be a bar, if it is, at the special request of the defendant.
S 6. " And be it further enae,ed, That all laws and parts of laws that
"v~me within the purview and meaning of this act. are hereby declared
"void and of no efiect."
An act to explain an act pa*-d in one thousand seven hundred and eighty.
nine, entitleaan act to anena an act concerningprqingovill:and grant.
'ngletter: of aimihidstratia,antto preventfraud in the management oJ
"in(estates'est.tez, passedin one thousand semn hundred and fifteen, and

.for otlypurpoiee

" Whereas doubts have been entertained whether that part of the ninth
"seuion of the said act, passed in one thousand seven hundred and fi"teen, which requires the creditors of any person deceased, to make
"their claims w;thin seven years after the decease of such debtor, or be
"forever barred, is or is not repealed by the said act, passed in one thou"sand seven hundred 3nd eighty-nine.
" 1. Be it enacted, &c. That the said act passed in the year one thou"sand seven hundred and eighty-nine, shall not be considered as a repeal
o f'that part of the ninth section of the
uct
passed in the year one thou.
,5nd4en hundred and fifteen aforesaid ; but that the same shall bc
"deemied, held and taken to be in full force"

FEBRUARY, 18o4.

277

brought in October 1798 before the la* of 1799 w passed. But even if it had been .brought al'ter the law of
1799, that act could not alter the past law, and make that
to have been law which was not law at the time. To
declare what the law is, or has been, is a judicial power ; to declare what the law shall be, is legislative. One
of the fundamental principles of all our governments is,
that the legislative power shall be separated from the judicial.
[The court stopped the counsel, observing that it was
unnecessary to argue that point.]
The act of 1789,- by making a provision on the same
subject, differing from that of 1715, would have repeal-ed it without the express clause of repeal contained in
the 6th section.
Should it be said that although the-9th section of the
act of 1715 may be repealed yet the present action is
within the 4th section of the act of 1789, and barred
thrreby; the answer, is, -that the defendant has not
pleaded that act in bar, and the court will not notice a
limitation unless pleaded.
2. The second inquiry involved iii the general question is, whether, if the act of 1789 repealed the limitation of 1715, the latter had operated upon this case before the repeal.

The defendant's testator died in 1780.
The plaintiff's testator was a British subject, and his
right of action was suspended, not only by the act of assembly of North-Carolina, passed in 1777, c. 2. ยง 101.
(IredelPs digest, p. 318.*) but, by the law of nations,
which prohibits an alien enemy from maintaining any
dn act for eatablishing courts of laiu andfor regulating theproceedings
therein.
4 ยง 101. PROVIXDD, that no person who hath taken, or sball take,
"part with the enemies of America, or who bath or shall refuse; when
"lawfully required thereto, to take the oath of.allegiance and abjuration
"required by the laws of this state, or who iath of shall remove from

oGD1E

V.

BLACK-

L=DGZ.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
O6Drs
Br.
LRDGE,

."m

action In the courts of the natiOn with whom his sovereign is at war: And his right of action was not restored until the act of assembly of 1787, c. 1. (Iredell's di-gest,
p. 607.) declared the treaty with Great-Britain to
be the law of the land, and directed the courtsto decide
accordingly.*
By the 4th article of the definitive treaty of peace,
creditors are to meet with no lawful impediment to the
recovery of their debts. The limitation therefore could
not begin to run, before the removal of all such lawful
impediments. The treaty was ratified on the 14th of
Yanuary, 1784, and even calculating from that date.
only five years had elapsed before the repeal.
It may be remarked also that this same Samuel Cornell
is one of the persons expressly narmed in the act of confiscation of October 1779, c. 2. (Iredell's digest;p. 379.)
and therefore it canot- be contended that he was not
one of the persons ,whose rights of action were suspelidedl
by the actof 1777, c. 2.
-At the ti me of the repeal th; plaintiff was ehtitled to
brWg and maintain his action. No right had then veste&lin the defendant under the act of limitations, and
therefore the principle does not apply, that the repeal
shall not divest 4 right.
this state, or any ofthe United States, to avoid giving their assistance
in repelling the invasions oT the common enemy, or who bath or shall
"reside, or be, under the 4ominion of the enemies of America, other than'
"such as are detained as prisoners of war, nor any person claiming by
"assignment, representation or otherwise, by or ubder any such .person,
shall have or receive any'benefit of this act; but all right of commen"cing and prosecuting any suit or suits, action or actions, real, personal
"or mixt, shall be, and is h.ereby suspended, and shall remain suspended
"until the legislature shall make further provision relative thereto."
An ace declaring the treaty of peace between the United States ofdmerica

and the ing of Great-Britain, to be part f the law of the land.
"1. Be it enacted, &c. That the articles of the definitive tkeaty between
"the United States of America and the kingof Great-Britain, are hereby
declared to be part ofthe law of the land
" 11. And be it furtherenacted, &c. thatthe courts of law and-equity
" are herebv declared in all causes ant] questions cognizable by them. respecting the said treaty to judge accordingly."

FEBRUARY, 1804.
Acts of limitation do not absolve the debt; they only
bar the remedy. 5 Bur. 2628. kuantoch v. England.
They are nothing more than legal impediments. The
replication of the treaty was therefore good.
March 6th. Cmvhing, Justice, delivered the opinion
of the court, which was eptered on the minutes, as follows:
This court having considered the question, whether
the act of assembly recited in the plea of the defendant,
was, under all the circumstances stated, and the various
acts passed by the legislature of North-Carolina, a bar
in this action; which question, in consequence of an opposition in the opinion of the judges of the circuit court,
for the district of North-Carolina, Was certified to this
court to be finally decided ; is of opinion, that the act
of assembly recited in the said plea, is, under all the circumstances stated, no bar to the plaintiff's action, the
same having been repealed by the act of 1789, ch. 23,
at which time seven years had not elapsed from the final
ratification of the treaty -peace between Great-Britain
and the United States; that being the period when the
act of limitations began to rufi agairist debts due by citfzens of the United States to British creditors.

OGDzKK
BLAC

