FEBRUARY, 1804.

33

ty of Alexahdria,ought to be reversed, and it is hereby
reversed and annulled; and the court proceeding to
give such decree as the circuit court ought to have
given, doth decree and order that an issue be directed
etween the parties, to be tried at the bar of the said
circuit court, in order to ascertain whit was the actual
annual value in.specie, or in other money equivalent
thereto, of the half acre lot of ground which was conveyed, by the executors of Yohn Alexafider, deceased,
to Abraham Faw, on the 5th day of August 1779, and
that in the account between the parties, in order to a
final decree, the- representatives of said Phillip -Mfarstelcr be allowed a credit for the rent which has accrued
and which remains unpaid, estimating the said annual
rent at such sum as the verdict of a jury, to be approved
of by the said circuit c6urt, shall 'ascertain the half acre
lot of ground before'mentioned, to have been fairly
worth at-the date Of the contract under which the same
is claimedby the said Abraham Faw.

FAw
M

.

OGLE
V'.

OGLE v. LEE.

LnE.

THIS cause came up to this court, upon a question on If a question,
which the opinions. of the judges of the circuit court upon which
were opposed.
It was made a question, whether this court would con- tinion be cer.
this
sider the whole case, sor only the question uporr which the tified
court,toandhere
court below divided.
decided, the'
The court were unanimously of opinion, that they
could only consider the single question, upon which the
jtdges below divided in opinion, but that the parties will
not be'precluded from bringing a writ of error, upon the
final judgment below; and the -whole cause will then be
before the court. A court may at any time reverse an
interlocutory decree.

parties are not
.precudedfrorn
a writ of error
on the final

judgment,

when the
whole cause
will be before
the court.

The case was.afterwards settled by ihe parties.
I

. PENNING.
TON

PENNINGTON v. COXE..
Cox.
THIS was a feigned issue, between Tench Coxe a cit- k
izen of the state of Pennsylvania, and Edward Peniiing- butSrenot sold
ton a citizen of the state of New-York, to try the ques- and %at out of

