SUPREME COURT U. S.

THE UNITED STATS;S v. FISHER et al. ASSIGNEES OF BLIGHT, A BANKRUPT.*

v.

BLIGHT.

S
In al cases of
insolvency or
bankruptcy of
a debtor of the
United States,

P

ERROR- from the circuit court of the district of
ennsyvania.

The action was instituted to try two questions, all the
to priority necessary facts being conceded to bring the law before
tied
paymet
ofofhis
el. the court. The questions were,
they are enti..

fects.

1. Whether an attachment laid by the United States,
on property of the bankrupt in the hands of the collector
of Newport in Rhode-Island, after the commission of
bankruptcy had issued, is available against the assignees ?
2. Whether the United States are entitled to be first
paid and satisfied, in preference to the private .creditors, a
debt due to the United States by Peter Blight, as indorsor
of a foreign bill of exchange, out of the estate of the
bankrupt in the hands of his assignees ?
The opinion of the court below was in favor of the
defendants upon both points, and a bill of exceptions
was taken by the United States.
Dallas (attorney of the United States for the dis.
trict of Pe.nsylvania) for the plaintiffs in error.
1. As to the particular right of Ai United States
under the attachment. The title of the assignees is
good against all who 'arebound by the bankrupt act.
But we say the United States are not bound by that act.
This exemption is not claimed as matter of prerogative
as in Englnd, but by reason of an express legislative
exception.
By the 62d § of the Banhruptlaw, of 4th April 1800,
vol. 5, p. 82, it is enacted, "that nothing contained in
"this law, shall in any manner affectthe right of pre-

"ference to prior satisfaction of debts due to the Uni"ted States, as secured or provided by any law hereto.
*Present, Marzhall C. J. Cushing, Paterron, Washington and yohn.
son, Justices.

FEBRUARY, 18ow.
"fore passed, nor shall be construed to lessen or im"pair any right to, or security for, money due to the
"United States, or to any of them."
Congress had a right to declare, that the act should
not affect a public debt. Have they done it? The
words contemplate, 1. The right of preference existing
by prior laws ; 2. The general right to, or security for
any money due to the United States. The effect of
this section is, that the bankrupt act shall in no manner
affect the right of the United States to recover any
money due to them. To say then that the coMmission of bankruptcy; should prevent the United States
from -attaching the effects of the bankrupt,. is in direct
repugnance to the section. This exception in favour of
the United States, was not necessary to prevent the
certificate from being a bar to their claim; nor to protect a lien actually existing; as a mortgage, &c. because
the United States not being named in the body of the
act are not bound by it. Thus in England, upon the
same principle the king is not barred by the certificate.
Such were also the decisions upon the Pennsylvania
bankrupt law in the courts of that state, by which it
was uniformly adjudged that the state was not bound.
A mortgage, or other specific lien was sufficient to protect itself. The section, therefore, could have no use
but that of declaring expressly, that so far as relates to
the debt due to the United States, the right, the security and the remedy should all remain unimpaired by any
thing contained in that law. This principle was decided by the circuit court, in the case of the UnitedStates
v. King; Wallace's Reports, p. 13, in which the court
held, that in the case of a legal bankruptcy, the right of
the United States remained unimpaired. 'As far as tLe
claim of the United States was concerned, the assign.
ment under'lthe commission of bankruptcy, did not
transfer the property. If. the claim of the United
States was by- matter of record, the assignees were
bound tQ take notice of it, and if the effects came to
their hands, they held in trust for the United States
until the claim was discharged; so if the claim.was by
matter in pais, if the assignees had notice they were
bound by it, and could not distribute until the claim vas
Zati /i d.

Fxsurit
".

'360

PIsliza
V.
BLIGHT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The whole title of the assignees depejads upon the
statute; if then the assignment under the statute Is set
Sup to prevent the United States from getting the money,
it is in direct violation of the 62d section.
2. As to the general right of the United States to
priority of payment in all cases.
The United States are bound to maintain the public
credit, and to pay -all their debts, as well those due before as since the present constitution. They must have
all necessary powers incident to that duty; among
these is the authority to purchase bills, and to enter into
negotiations for making remittances to foreign countries. They are not bound to freight a ship with specie.
Every fiscal system ought to have two objects ; certainty in the collection of the revenue, and fidelity in
ics expenditure. Hence the necessity of priority in
collectipg the public debts.; of surety for the conduct
of public officers ; and of a guard against the failure of
the public debtors.
With this view it is enacted by the act of Yuly 11,
1798, § 12, vol. 4,.p. 196, that the supervisors, inspectors and c6llectors, should give bond with surety for the
faithful performance of their duty. And by the 15th
section of the same act, the amount of all debts due to
the United States by any supervisor, or other officer of
the revenue, is declared to be a lien upon his lands and
those of his surety, from the time when a suit shall be
instituted for the recovery of the'same.
The'debtors of the United States may be arranged
in 3 classes;
1. Debtors on credit for public dues.
2. On receipt of public money.
S. On purchases or contracts.
1. Debtors on credit for public dues, were, 1. For
import duties. 2. For internal taxes.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

361

By the act of 31st July 1789, § 21, • (Y1. 1, Childs'
edition, p. 47,) it is provided that "in all cases of in.
"solvency, or where any estate in the hands of execu"tors or administrators, shall be insufficient to pay all
"the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
"United States on any such bond" (i. e. for the payment of duties) "shall be first satisfied." The act of
.Aug st 4, 1790, § 45, (same book, p 221) has the same
provision.
By the act of 2d of May 1792, § 18, (vol. 2, Childs'
edition', p. 78,) in- cases of insolvency the surety who
pays the debt due to the United States, on any bond
given for duties or goods imported, shall have the same
priority of payment out of the effects of the insolvent,
as the United States would hav had by virtue of the
44th (4 th) section of the act of 4th of August 1790.
And it is further declared "that the cases of insolvency
"in the said 44th (45th) section mentioned, shall be
"deemed to extend as well to cases in which a debtor, not
"having sufficient property to pay all his or her debts,
"cshall have made a voluntary assignment thereof, for the
"benefit of his or her creditors, or in which the estate
"and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent
"debtor shall have been attached by process of law, as
"to cases in which an act of legal bankruptcy shall have
"been committed.?'
Thus as early as 1792 the priority in the case of bonds
given for duties on goods imported was compleat. The
only addition afterwards made, was by the 65th sectioi ofthe act of M7farch 2d, 1799, vol. 4i P. 386, which makes
executors and administrators personally'liable if they pay
away the assets'without first satisfing the debt due to the
United States.
2. As to debtors fQr internal taxes.
The duties on distilled spirits are to be secured by bond.
.tTfarch 3, 1791, vol71, p. 311, sec. 17. But this act gave no priority on such bonds.
The duties on snuff and sugar were also to be secured
by'bond. Yune 5, 1794, vol. 3, p. 98, see. 11, but no pr"
ority is given by this act.
Z.2

Frsnz.
V
371G

T

362
Fxiazis
.Y.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It is difficult to conceive why the United States should
have made this distinction between debis due for duties
on goods imported, and on spirits distilled &c. There certainly was no reason for it. The legislature saw the de.%
fect, and in 1797 passed the act upon which the present
question depends, and which gives the Upited States a
priority, of payment in "allcases whatsoever.
"
The 5th see. of the 3d of March 1797,"vol. 3,p. 423, is
that on which-we rely. It is in ihese words, "And be it
" further enacted, that where any. revenue officer, or
" other person, hereafter becoming indebted to the Uni" ted States by' bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent,
or mhere the estate-6f any deceased debtor, in the
" hands of exeutors or adainistrators, shall be-insuffiCeient to pay all the debts due from the deceased, the
" debt due to the UnitedState.9 shall be first satisfied; and
the prio'rity hereby established shall be deemed to ex" tend as well to cases in which'a debtor, not -having suf' ficientproperty to pay all his debts, shall make a volfn" tarv assignment thereof, or in which the estate and ef"fects of an absconding, concealed, or absmt debtor, shall
" be atiached by process of law, as to cases in Which an
act of legal bankruptcy shall be committed."
Before this act was .passed, the only preference existing
was in the case of a custom-house bond. The cases not
provided for, were; 1. Revenue offiers. 2. Accountable
ag-nts. 3. Debts on bond, or contract.
The act of 1797 embraces them all. It includes all persons wbo.should thereafter become indebted to the United
Statt s, by bond, or otherwise, and who should become
insolvent.I
Peter Blight after the date of the act did become indebted to the United States otherwise than by bond, and
haq become insolvent. He is therefore within the plain and
express words of the act. No language can make the
case clearer. There is nothing doubtful in the words
themselves, nothing ambiguous, nothing to be explained, and therefore no room for construction. But the
gentlemen have chosen to resort to other parts of the
act, and even to other act§, not to explain what was

FEBRUARY, 1805.

363

ambiguous, but to render ambiguous what was plain,
not to rembve, but to Create a cdoubt, not to illustratd
what was obscure, but to-darken what Was clear.
The title of the acthas led t6 the whole.opposition in
this case. It is " an act to provide more eff,.ctually
" for the settlement of accounts between the United
" States and receivers of public money.1 '
It is true that itoonly professes to relate to the settle.
ment of accounts, and conveys no idea of priority. But
then it speaks of reCeivers of public-money, not revenue
bfficers and accountable agents'only, not those who reteive it by collection any more than- those who receive
it by contract..
The firstsectionrelates exdlusively to revenue officers'
and accountable agents, but every other section takes a
larger scope.
If the'bod of'the act is to be the slave of the title,"
how are we to account for the general provisions it contains. But the case comes within the very words of the
title. Who are receivers of public money? We say a
person.who indorsed and sells 'a bill of exchange to the
United "tates is a receiver of public money. He is accountable for it upon a contingency. If the bill is not
duly honoured he contracts to refund the money. Hence
then our opponents are obliged to restrict evei the title
itself. If Mr. Blight had received the money to carry
to Htlland, he would certainly have been a receiver of
public money. But he has received it here under an engage ment to .pay it there.-What is the difference ?
The account his been settled with the treasury, 'and
the balance ascertained, in which account he has been
charged with the public money.
The act of September 2, 1789, sec. 3 and 5, (vol. 1,

p. 37.) provides for the settlement of all accounts, and
the recovery of all debts. The act of .Marchi, 1795,
(vol. 3,p. 225.) obliges all accountable agents to render
and settle their accounts a the treasury.

ISU.R

V. T.
JH
BI1b

364
FxYisx
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

The act of 1797, vol. 3, p. 421, provides for the recovery of the debt by suit, after final settlement of the
accounts of a receiver of public money. Having in the
four first sections expoundedtheprovisions of the law respecting the pre-existing cases of adjustedaccounts, the
subsequent sections take a larger range, and provide for
new cases.

The first section applies exclusively to receivers of
public money and accountable agents.
The second speaks of delinquency, and is thereby
connected with the first. It also makes copies of bonds
or other papers relating to the settlement of any account
between the United States and an individual, as good
evidence as 'the original. Here the phraseology is altered. The subject is enlarged and by-no means limited by the title. The word delinquent is dropped and the
expression is'
general, any account between the United
States and an individual. The suit directed to be brouight
in the first section is always founded on the account set..
tied, whatever may have been the original cause of action ; whethir a bond, note, covenant, contract, or open,
account.

Th6 third section by the words" as aforesaid" refers
to such suit upon the adjustmeiit of the account, and
admits the defendant to set up equitable credits which
had been submitted to the accounting officers of the
treasury, and rejected, p'evious to the commencement
of the suit. But no new voucher is to be admitted.
In the fourth section. the word of reference is omitted.r The subject of suits in general between the United States and individuals is taken up. The word delinquents is not used. It would have been improper. It
is not a term applicable to mere debtors, but to defaulters-persons who have misapplied public money.
The words of the fifth section are general, and tnft c

is nothing either in the title or preceding sections which
can restrict them. It is not like some of the former sec.
tions restricted to adjusted accounts, nor to accountable
agents, nor to collectors of public money, nor to persons who receive the ptubic money to distribit&. And

FEBRUARY, 1805.

365

yet we find that when the legislature meant to restrict
the ubject of legislation, restrictive words were not
wanting. By not using words of restriction in the
fifth section, after having used them in the preceding
sections, theyhaveshewna manifest intention of making
a general provision upon-he subject of priority in all ca*ses.
The sixth section is also general in its terms. It embraces all writs of execution upon any judgment obtained for the use of the United States.
The seventh section saves all the remedies which the
United States before had for the recovery of debts.
The general right of priority is recognized by subsequent statutes. Thus in the act for the relief of persons
imprisoned for debts due to the United States, Yune 6,
1798,vol. 4, p. 121, the provision is general, "that anyper"son imprisoned upon execution issuing from any court
"of the United States, for a debt due to the United States
"may apply," &c. and the secretary of the treasury being
satisfied that such debtor is unable to pay the debt, and
that he has not concealed or made any conveyance of his
',ate A trust for himself," or with an intent "to defraud
tfie U11ited Siates, or deprive them of their legalpriority,"
&c. may or r him to be discharged from custody. From
the force of these expressions, as applied to the subject
matter, it is evident that a general priority was contemplated. So in the 62d § of the Bankrupt -lawof April 4,
1800, vol. 5, p. 82, the words, " the right of preference
-~to prior satisfaction of debts due to the United States.
"as secured or provided by any law heretofore passed."
There is no priority given in case of bonds with pecuniary penalty, other than custom-house bonds, unless it be
given by the act of 1797, yet by the act of March 1799,
sec. 65, vol. 4,p. 386, if the surety in any bond with penalty, shall pay the debt, he shall enjoy the like priorityand
preference as are reserved and secured to the United
States.
The title of a law is no part of tIe law. In England it
is prefixed by the clerk; and is never passed upoif by parliament. In congress it is never read btt once. .elrer-

Fisizz
V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rislix
7.LX-T.

son's Manual, p. . 6 Bac. Ab. Gwillim, 369. Bar,
ringt6n on Statu.es, 449.
illes' Reports, 394. Colev. Cadel. 2 SIr. 1211.
Mace
232.
Cowp.
man v. C'ooke.
Swaine v. De Mattos.. .3 TWilsoti, 271. Cowp. 540, Pat"tisohv. Bankes. Doug. 166-Cox v. Liotard.
The title of the. act of 2d March, 1799, vol. 4,p. 279, is,
"an act to regulate the collection of duties on imports and
4 tonnage," yetthe 62d sec.p. 38S; prescribes the forh of
6onds to betaken to the United States iii all cases. And
the 65th sec.'p. 386, directs bail-to be taken in all cases of
pecuniary penalties.
No argument therefore can be drawn from the title.
As to the argument ab ipconvenienti.
It amounts"merely to this, that one merchant cannot
know wheti he is safe in* trusting his neighbour, because
he does'not know what-bills he has indorsed to the United
States, or wht bills with his indorsemenit' may :get- into
their hands. -The same objection may be made as.to sureties in custom-house bonds, and receiveis of public money
,-cases in which the priority is ackiowledged. The act
has done no more"tha the -debtor himielf has a right to
do. Indepehdent of the bankrupt law, a debtor may con-.
vey all his property to one of his creditors, in exclusion of
'allthe rest, and the conveyance will be-good. So..a foreign attachment ':nay come and sweep away'the whole estate..
But-if the words of thelaw are clear.and positive, it cannot .bealtered by'the consideration of its inconvenience;
That would be a subject for.legislative, not judicial inquiry.
Hr'per, contra.
The ground of prerogative seems to be abandoned. The
few obserrations -I shall make .will be confined to the case
of an indorsor of a bill of exchange which gets into the
hands of the United States.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

36X

The argument is rested on statutory provisions only.
It is gontended that the priority extends to all debtors.
On the other side it is confined tofscal debts, Qf which
there are only -twoI kinds*: bonds for duties, and debts due
from accountable agents.
The general words of the act extend to all cases ; but
we contend that those general words are restricted by the
spirit of the act, and by the intention of the legislature.
The general observations which have been made tending
to shew that it would have been prudent i4 congress to
extend the priority to all cases, db not shew that they have
done 't.
But it is said that the 62d section of the bankrupit law restricts the general operation 6f the act, so that none ofthe
provisions shall affect the right of the United States. This
is admitted,.". Then we aire. brought back to the question,.
what iights' idd the United-States before that act 1 If they
had no priirity before, that act did not'give it to them.
It is admitted that a voluntary assignment before the act
and sic.e its repeal would deprive" the other creditors of
their right'td the property. If then the United States are
to be considered as a.common, and not as a privileged
creditor, the -voluntary assignments made by Blight before the bankrupt law, would bar the Unite&States as well
as any other creditor.
The bankrupt act neither gives nor takes away the right
of priority; so that the qttestion again returns, what was
their former right.
The words, " or other person,"' aid "oW otherwise,"
in the 5th section of the act of 1797, it is said, give this
clause a general operation in all cases. The word "hereafter" has also furnished an argument for the plaintiffs in
error. It is said that the .prioritv was to apply instanter
to the case of a revenue officer, but in other cases it was
to apply only to such debts as should be thereafter contracted. But there is no such distiniction. The printer
has committed an error in placing a comma after the words
" revenue officer," whereas the.words " hereaftek becoming indebted," apply as well to " revenue ofter" as to
6"other person."

F.xsrm

V.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Yisurn

V.

B

We admit that neither a title nor jireamble can controul
the express words of the enacting clauses ; but if these are
ambiguous, you may resort to-the title or.preamble to elucidate them.
It is said that Blight was a receiver of public money,
and therefore within the title of the act. But that appellation is not more applicable to him than it would be to a
man who receives payment for timber furnished for the use
of-the United States. No account against him can be
opened in the books of the treasury. He merely sold the
bill and received payment. He received it as his own mohey, not that of the United States.- And although he
n
might, by matter ev 'ostfacto become indebted, yet when
he received it, he did not receive it 'as public money for
which he was to account. The right of action of the United States did not accrue upon his receipt of the money,
but upon the breach of his contract. - The indorsor of a
bill engages that it shall be duly honoured. .When the bill
was dishonoured, and not before, the claim of the United
States accrued; When here.ceived the money, it depended updn a contingency whether he should ever' become
indebted to the United States : and if they should not take
all the steps of due diligence, notice, &c. he never would
be indebted.
It is said that the evil to be remedied by the act of 1.797,
was, that the collectors of the internalrevenue were not
subject to the priority. The case of the collectors of the
external revenue had been provided for before. We admit ihe rule that every part of the act is to have effect, but
it does not require that. the words should be extended to
an indorsor of a bill of exchange. There are other persons
upon whon the whole effect of the section may operate.
There *areaccountable agents, that is, agents who receive
the public money to distribute. These are indebted.to the
United States " otherwise" than by bond. These are the
other persons than revenue officers, to whom the act alludes. Those two classes of persons, revenue officers,
and accountable agents, are sufficient to"satisfy all the expremsions of the section.
Innumerable inconveniences and embarrassments will
follow a further extension of the"words ; and if there is
no necessity of extending them further, those inconveniev-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

309

ces will furnish a sufficient ground to sippose that the legislature did not mean so to extend them.

When a man gves a.bond for duties, or a revenue officer for the faithful discharge of his office, the bond is of
record; all the world has notice. A public agent also is
charged of record on the books of the treasury. His
neighbours who deal with him are aware of his situation ;

they know the extent of his responsibility, and can exercise
theirjudgment in trusting him.
But in the case of an indorsor of a bill of exchange no
one can have notice. A man may have indorsed a hundred bills, and he may not himself know how many of
them have been purchased by the United States. His creditors trust him without. notice-they believe that if any
accident should happen to him, they will share an equal
.'ate with his other creditors. If they had known, as in
the case of a collector, that the United States might come
in and seize the whole of his effects, they would not have
given him credit. Such a construction ought to be supported by the strongest reasons.
The distinctiorn between revenue officers and other persons, runs through the whole act; and you may as well
extend the 2d section to all cases as the 5th, and say that
every debtor of the United States'shall be at the-mercy of
the officers of the treasury department. But the 2d section is evidently restricted, and we have as good a right to
restrict the 5th by connecting it with the 2d, as they would
have to extend the 2d by relation to the 5th.
The words "as aforesaid," in the 2d section, restrict
its operation to certainftcal debts, and shew the subject
matter of the act to be debts, which, in the usual course
are to be adjusted atthe treasury.
The 6th section is relied on to shew that the title is not
to controul the enacting clauses. But this is because an
entirely new subject matter is introduced, and by no possibility can its words be satisfied by restricting them to
the cases mentioned in the other sections.
The provision of the act of 1799, vol. 4, p. 386, § 65,
which makes execators and administrators liable, if the;"

Fxsiza
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rzsaER
Y-

pay.ayay the assets without first• satisfying the debt due
tothe United'States, applies exclusively to custom-house
bonds. This may be just, because the executor can alr

way s go to the records and know whether his testator ias
so indebted. -Bit"this furnishes ioground to suppose
to the
that congress meant to apply the sa e proyision ..
executor of an'indorser ofa bill; who could'not be suppo"
sed to jow that his testator was so indebted;" and who
may have paid away the assets without such'knowledgp.*
Ingersoll,.on the same side.
A claim of .'preference; which in moiiarchie* is boldly
qvowed by the name of Prerogative,presents'itself in republics under the milder and more insinuating appellation
9f Privilege..
The preference 'nsisted, upon.for the United States in
.the present instinCe exceeds thaf which is considered as in".
cideit io the supremacy 6f aiiy king, emperor, or other
sbvereiga in Europe, under similar circurtances.
The United States by their agent (but who did not declare himself to be such) purchased a bill of exchange,
Nwhich was returied protested for non-payment.. In doing
this they acted the merchant, and ought to be content with
preserving i consistency of chatacter. "The drawer and
indorsor became bankrupt-voluntary, and provisional,
and absolute assignments were mifde. No public property is specifically identified and traced to the hands of the
defendant's assignor. The debtors were not revenue officers; agents of the United States, either general or special; nor did they receive public money to be accountable,
nor even knbw that the purchas6 vas for the use of the
United States. They not only were not themselves agents,
but they did not know that thiy were dealing with an agent
of ihe United States. Subs quent to those assignments
the United States attached the property assigned, as be16nging to Peter Plik~t' the issignor.
*.Mr.H,= apologized here for closing his argument; being engaged as one ot'counsel upo tbe impachment thda pending btesthe

Scute of the United Statei.

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

Sr1

We contend-

1. That the laws of the United States do not g've the
prferehce"clainied.
2.- That the attachment having issued and been laid subsequent tdthe assignment under the commission of banikruptcy, is-an immaterial incident which cannot affect the
general pinciple.
3. That if the act of congresa giles the preferenice io the
extent claimed,. it is unconstitutional, and not a law.
1st. -Does the law of the United States give the referente claimed, on general grdind, cbnsidereid abstractedly from the proceedifiga by ttachment.

Particular and secret liens, indiscreetly multiplied,
occasion doubtful titles; render an intercourse in business daiigerdis, ind desiroy credit, the life of commerce, The claim of priority, as now urged, igac~onipanied with all the mischief and 'nconvehience, if it
does not fall under the express denonlination of a secret
lien.. For a literal cdnstrtictiou of the lMw, it is scarcely possible that any man Will contend. The counsel for
the. United States shrink froi the conclusion to which
such an interpretation would necessarily lead. Proper.
ty, real or personal, would hot be a means of obtaining
credit.. No lender could secure himself by mortgage,
pledge, or otierwise, against loss by the insolvency of
the borrower, The unfortunate incident, to guard against the consequences of which the security was taken,
would itself cause the didappointment and loss.
. The'argument of the opposite counsel recoils upon
thensalves. Although they disavow the interference
with specific liens,' yet _hey must take the principle altogether; and if it lead to these absurd results, it must'
be unsound inits source,
Their qualified positions however,-authorises the conclusion that there are supposeable cases, in which the
United States will not be entitted to -priority on the in.

Tzs~zx

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FxsHxz

V'

solvency of their debtors, and repels conclusively an
adherence to the letter of the law.
If, instead of confining ourselves to particular expressions, we consider the mischief and the remedy, and
tke the general scope and design of the act into view,
we may with confidence anticipate the conclusion.
Every statute consists of the letter and the spirit; or,
in the quaint but strong language of ancient law writers,
of the shell and the ernel; and, by comparing the different parts with each other, from the title to the last
sentence, it is found to be its own best expositor. 4 Inst.
424. 1 am authorised by one of the greatest lawyers
that ever lived, to say that general words in statutes
have at all times, from a variety of considerations, re.
ceived aparticularand restrictedinterpretation. 4 Inst.
330, 334, 335.
The key to unlock the secrets of the law, we admit,
is not so much the title (although it is one of many considerations to be taken into view) as the motive, the
cause, the principle, that induced the legislature to pass
the act. The counsel for the United States has stated
this motive to be to put the internal revenue upon the
same footing as the import duties; and to that proposition we accede. Let the law cease where the reason
ceases, and we are safe.
It may be useful to consider the prerogative of the kings
of England in this particular, at the least liberal period of
its juridical history, when unreasonable preferences of the
sovereign over the subject fill and deform its every page.
By the statute of 33 H. 8, c. 39,. § 74, "his debt shall,
in suing out execution, be preferred to that of every other creditor who hath not obtained judment before the
king commenced his suit."--3 B1. Com. 420. This only
makes the commencement of the king's suit equivalent to
a judgment in favour of a subject.
* The'king's judgment also affects all lands which the
king's debtor hath at or after the time of contracting his
debt."-3 Bi Com. 420. This relates to lands only.The personal estate, at least, escapes the royal grasp.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

373

Even there, the distinction for which we contend, has always been observed. The preference in favour of the
king is principally confined to cases where public monies
have been received by an accountable officer to public use.
It does not extend to transactions of a common nature.
By the statute of 13 Elizabeth, c. 4, the lands and tenements, goods and chattelS, of tellers, receivers, collectors, &c. and other officers of the revenue, are made liable to the payment of their debts.
These are the models which the act of congress was intended to imitate. The lands of such revenue. offcers are
liable to process under the king's judgment, even in the
hands of a bona fide purchaser; though the debt due to
the king was contracted by the vendor many years after
the alienation.-3 B1. Com. 420. Here the distinction is
still kept up between revenue officers and others.
If goods are taken on a.#.fa. against the king's debtor,
and before they are gold, an extent come at the king's suit,
tested after the delivery of the ft. fa. to the sheriff, these
goods cannot be taken upon the extent, but the execution
upon the . fa. shall be compleated.--4 . R. 402Rorhe v. Dayrell.
Even queen Elizabeth, with all the supremacy of absolute sway, did not carry her prerogative claims to the extent now urged for afederative republic, and representative democracy.
With the several exceptions already stated, and which
are confirpd principally to revenue officers, the king of
England has no priority in the recovery of his debts over
the meanest peasant of his dominion4.
When we advert to the title of the act, we find in its
pointed expressions, a direct contradiction by the legislature itself, to the present claim of the United States. The
words are, " an act to provide more efectually for the.
settlement of accounts between the United States and receivers of public money," not between the United States
nd individuals indebted by bond, contract, or otherwise.
It is substantially in. imitation of the English statutes, re-

FxsumL
V.

SUPREME COUTRT U. S.
FtxznR
v.

specting tellers, collectors,aind eceivers, who are answeraz
ble in the receipt of the exchequer.

BLIGUT.

The act is " ore eJetually," to provide, &c ,allua former provision upon the same subject. That
din to provision
formner
is contained in the act of March 3d, 17951
which, with a title less restricted than that of 1797, is confined in its enacting part to persons who have received
monies- for which- they are accountable to the United
States..
We do'noi contend that the title can controul tne plain
words of the enacting clause; but where a construction.of
an enacting clause would lead to unjust, 6ppressive," a d
iniquitous consequences, which will be avoided by itconstruction consistent with the title, .a strong argument arises in favour-of the latter interpretation.
When in the act of 1795, we*find the'legislature confining itself throughout, to provisiois- for the settlement
of the accounts of accountable receivrrs of public moneyand when in that of 1197, they declare that their object is
to do the same thing more efectually, we naturally infer
that their views are confined to persons of the same de-.
scription.
We are told by the counsel for the United States, that
acts in pari materiaare to be taken together. We adopt
the same rule-and, by comparing the two acts together,
section by section, the inference will be, that both are
confined to revenue officers and accountable agents.
The first section of the former law is confined to notifying the accountable officer to render his accounts to the
auditor of the treasury ; and, in default thereof, the
comptroller is authorisedto order suit. By the first section of the act of 1797, it is made the duty of the comptroller to institute such suits against delinquent revenue
officers, and o.theripersons accountable for public money.
The delinquent is to forfeit his commissions, and pay six
per cent interest from the time of receiving the money.
No person was to be sued iunder this act, who was not
entitled to commissions for receiving and paving away mo-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

375

ney; because in all cases of delinquency such commissions were to be forfeited.
The whole act is employed in stating who shall be sued-who shall sue them-when the cause shalll be triedthe evidenct. to be received on the trial-the mode of defence-the judgment-and. execution.
Congress had been in the habit of preserving a priority
a limited way, and in certain cases. If was tracingthe
public money specifically in the character of the receiver.
The act of July 31, 1789, confined the priority to custqm-house bonds. That of 4th August, 1790, on morp
full consideration, limhited it in the same manner. That
of 2d May, 1792, which places the surety on the same
footing with the United States, shews the same restricted
cqnstruction. The present act comes next in order 6f
tine. Its title and its first section are confined in the same
manner. Iit does not," of itself, authorise the settlement
or adjustment of any accounts ; it only determines what
proceedings may be had on such settlements and adjustments as are made under the act of 3d March, 1795, which
does not authorise the settlement or adjustment of any accounts, but those of persons who have received public money, for which they are accountable to the United States.
An alternative here presents itself. Either the officers
of the treasury department had a right to settle def/nitivel
and e~xclusively the demand of the plaintiffs for this bill of
exchange--or, the second section is restricted in its operation to revehue officers and accountable agents.
We are told that the first part of the second section is so
restricted, but that the second part of it includes all debtors to the United States.
In the first part, which we agree is restricted, a transcript from the treasury books is made evidence. The second part is merely supplementary to the first, providing
that copies of any papers connected with the settlement of
any account, authenticated in a prescribed form, shall be
as good evidence as the originals. Of course, as to those
persons against whom the originals .are not evidence under
the first part of the section, the.copies are not evidence under the second.

Fiszni
BIGHT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FisuER

V.

The very words of the clause, as well as the general
scope and design of the act, preclude any further extension of the provision.
The legislature evidently consider it as implied that
the provisions will be understood in a restricted sense,
although they use general expressions, without a relative
term in the whole sentence. The term i'ndividuals in the
2d section, must, for the reasons just stated, mean officers and agents who have received public money to be
accountable. If then the legislature, in that section, leave
general words to be restricted*in construction by the subJect matter, without relative words, it will be strange if
they are not understood as intending to do the same
when they use general expressions in the subsequent sections.
My argument is, that general expressions in every
subsequent section, are to be understood in a sense limited by the views of the legislature, as explained in the
"first clause.
I contend that all persons comprised in any part of the
Act, are included in the first section; because all persons to whom the act refers, were to be sued upon default. If then I ascertain who were to be sued upon default, I shew the extent of the act as to the persons
against whom it was to operate..
No persons were to be sued but receivers of public
money, for in every instance the defendant was to forfeit
his commissions, end pay interest from the time he received the money, until repaidinto the treasury.
Such a construction is warranted by authorities, American as well as British. 1 B!. Corn. 60, 61. 4 Tuck. BI.
372, 373, 374, note 4. The law of Virginia of December 15, 1796, usually termed the penitentiary act, (Randolph's abridgement, p. 359) in the fifst section, enacts
that "no crime whatsoever, committed by anyfree per"son against this commonwealth, (except murdei of the
"first degree) shall be punished witli death." In all the
subsequent sections, the word free is omitted, and no
word of reference used so as to connect them with the
5
- rst section, and vet it h9- heen uniformly held -that all

VEBRUARY, 1805.
the provisions of that law relate to free persons only,
that the subsequent sections, although the words are g-neral, shall be restricted by the first, and by the general intention of the legislature indicated in that section.
The 3d section of the act oi 1797s by using the words
" as aforesaid," expressly refers to the description of
debtors in the 1st section.
The 4th section shews that the legislature meant to
leave the general expression, '"individuals," ta be limited
by the subject matter. It is still speaking of the suits
mentioned in the 1st section, and yet it used a general expression. It provides in termh, that in suits between the
United States and individuals, no claim for a credit shall
be admitted upon trial, but such as-shall have been preGented to the officers of the treasury and by them disallowed. If Peter Blight had paid a part of this debt,
and a suit had been brought against him, is any man so
extravagant as to, contend that he could not prove that
partial payment, without shewing that he had accounted at
the treasury department?
Those officers had no power to call him to an account
with them, no right to allow or disallow his creditsi
Such a law would have been unconstitutional. It would
deprive him of his right of trial by jury without his consent. The'agentS. who receive mohey to be accountable,
may perhaps be considered as having named the accounting
officers as their referees, and to have assented to that
mode of settlement when they received the money.
We have shewn that the present case is not within the
four first sections of the act, and we contend that as the
legislature have in those sections relied on the subject
matter, to give a proper restriction to the general expressions therein contained, we are justified in saying, that
they meant that the general expressions in the subsequent
section, should also be limited within the same bounds.
It is remarkable that the 5th section begins with the
words of the 1st, as if it was intended to be an exact
copy, in respect to the description of persons. By inadvertence, as it often happens, the relative word " such," or
the additional words "accountable Jor public money,"
1,

3 B

FisuiE
BLI-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Fzsaza
v.
BLIGST.

are omitted. Or the legislature thought them unnecessary, as the iubject matter was in itself sufficient to qualify
the generality of the terms.
If this section was intended to be general, why this
useless profusion of words? Why specify revenue officers? Why say by bond? Why drop the general word
"individuals" used in the 4th section? Why not say any
person becoming indebted to the United States ?
It begins, as if congress meant to make a specific description of persons; as in the first -section. Why this
sudden change of the subject of legislation? Why use
words of description which can only tend to mislead ?
How strange and improbable is it, that congress should
give the United States a preference so much exceeding the
royal prerogative of England.
Unless such a construction be absolutely necessary, the
inconveniences attending it will und6ubtedly prevent its
adoption. Besides the destruction of private credit, and
the ruin of individuals, it would repeal all the state laws
of distribution of intestate estates ; it would prostrate all
state priority, which in thse cases. has been long established. It would produce a collision between the prerogative of the states, and of the United States. Suppose
the treasurer of a state should become indebted t6 the
United States, the latter would take his whole property
in opposition to any law of the state which had passed,
to secure herself against the default of her officers.
2d. The attachment aving issued -subsequent to the
assignment under the commission 6f-bankruptcy, leaves
the question to be decided on the general principle.
The statutory is always accompanied by a personal
assignment that transfers the property. The king of
England, although not within the provisions of the bankrupt-law of that country, is barred by the actual assignment.

There was not at that time, any property of Petei.
Blight to be attached, and if the United States are enti.
rgd, it must be under some of the acts which give them

FEBRUARY, 18s.
a priority.

FISH R

It cannot be under the bankrupt law, unless

they had some right prior to thc assignment.

The at-

tachtment gave them no right because it was subsequent.

3d. If the act is to have the extended construction
contended for on the part of the United States, and the
5th section is to be considered as including every debtor
to the United States, and if the settlement of the account
at the treasury is to be conclusive, the act is unconstitutional and void.
If liens general or specific, if judgments and mortgages are to be set aside by the prerogative of the United
States, .it will oe to impair the obligation of contracts by
an expostfacto law.
Under what clause of the constitution is such a power
given to congress? Is it under the general power to make
all laws necessary and proper for carrying into execution,
the particular powers specified? If so. where is the necessity or where the propriety of such a provision, and
to the exercise of what other power is it necessary?
But it is in direct violation of the constitution, inasmuch as it deprives the debtor of his trial byjury.with.
Dut his consent.
JoHznsoir, J. Do you admit the law resp .ring the
final adjustment of accounts at the treasury to be constitutional as to revene officers ?
Ingersoll. We neither admit nor deny it as to them
but we deny the power of congress to give the United
States a preference in all cases'of persons who may be.
come indebted to them in every possible manner.
PATERSON, J. Do you contend that by the 5th section the priority of the United States will avoid even a
mortgage to an individual ?

Ingersoll. I say that the opposite construction leads
to that.
Lewis, on t-e sname side,

V.

v

BLIT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Fisnup,
B.

in addition to the argument urged by Harperand hgersoll, coniended thatthe act of 1797 was repealed by
that of Mf.arch 2d, 1799, inasmuch as the former was
within the purvietv of the-latter, the 65th section of
which took up the case of priority, and made a different Orovision on the subject ; and the 112th section of
which expresslk repeals all former lgws which came
within the purview of that act. Every thting is within
the purview which is w*ithin the same evil, and whichcomprehends the same subject.
C. Lee, on the same side,
Contended that the priority of the United States is
confined to debts of r'ecord, or for which suit is brought,
and that it attaches only from the time of the commencementbf the suit. That the actof 1797 is explainedb
the act of 11th yuly, 1798, vol. 4, p. 198, which creates a lien upon- the lands of rievenue officers from the
time of the suit brought. If the United States had a general lien by the former law; whether suit was brought
or not, why did the legislature in a subsequent law create the special lien, and limit its commencement to the
time of instituting the suit, and confine if to revenue
officers ?
The prerogative of the United States cannot be construed to exceed that of the king of England. . Hi is
bound by an actual assignment, because the property is
thereby transferred. The title of the subject, if prior
and complete, shall be preferred to that of the king.
Parher 126, the King ir. Cotton.
PATERSON,

J.

Do you consider the doctrine of pre-

rogative as extended to this country? are the United
States not bound by a law unless named in it ?
Lee. It has been so contended by some persons in this
country. I believe it has been so decided in Pennsyl.
vania, under the insolvent act of the United States.Judge Peters made some such report to congress, who
passed a law specially respecting the debtors of the
United States.

FEBRUARY, 18oi5,
Dallas-, in reply.

Fisnra
BLIOHT.

The questions to be decided are,
1. What has congress done?
2. Had congress a right to do it ?
The ground now taken is essentially different from
that relied upon in the circuit court.
Each of the four gentlemen opposed to me has takien a different position.
The first admits the intent of the law to be to place
the internal revenue on the same footing with the external.
The secondadmits not only the officers of the internal revenue to be included in the law, but also accountable agents.
The third declares the law to be unconstitutional, and
alsoto be repealedby the act of 1797.
The fourth admits that the law extends to all debts,
but says the priority does not attach until suit brought,
All have conceded that the case was within the words
the act. What do we claim?
1st. Negatively, we do not contend that the priority
attaches with the creation of the debt, or with the acceptance of the office, nor while the debtor remains master of his own property.
Nor that it extends to purchasers for valuable considerations or to a mortgagee or pawnee before insolvency ; nor to a purchaser from the assignees ; nor that it
will be valid against a creditor of more merit or vigilance.
2d. Affirmatively, we claim an exemption from the
operation of the bankrupt law, as to our righi, our remedy, and our security.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
:r.n

We claim a preference in all cases of actual, noto.
rious insolvency, or bankruptcy, whether the debtor be
or dead.

Salive

We claim a preference when the property has passed
out of the debtor, and he has by his own act attempted to
give a preferenx zo others.
We claim it also where the law assumes the disposal
of his property, and directs a distribution among his
creditors.
We say that the priority attaches fiom the moment
the insolvency is testified by any overt act. Independent of the bankrupt law, a debtor had a right to give a
preference. At the moment of Blight's voluntary assignment, (whatever may have been its ultimate fate,
or legal invalidity on account of fraud) his property was
liable.to the ciaim of the United States. rhis.voluntary
assignment was after the act of 1797, and before the existence of the bankrupt law.
Does tie act of 1797 bear a resemblance to royal
prerogative ?
At common law the king can take the body, lands,
and goods of his debtor in execution at the same time.
His execution is preferred if his suit was commenced
before a judgment in favour of a subject, although his
-judgmentbe subsequent.
'the lands of his debtor are bound from the date of
the debt, and as to the officers mentioned in 13
Eliz. c. 4, their lands are bound from the time of their
entering into office. And all this whether the debtor
remains solvent or not. He has also a priority in all
cases of legal distribution! 21B1. Com. 511.
The act of 1797 has done nothing more than the
greater part, if not all the states have done. They
have long claimed the priority in case of distribution of
the estates of their deceased debtors. And what reason
can be given for a distinction between the dead and the

FEBRUARiY, 18O .
living insolvent. The laws have even extended the priority to an executor who has a right to retain for his
own claims against all other private creditors.
Such a right Was necessary to protect the United
States from fraud. '1 he7 could not exercise the same
degree of vigilance as individuals. Their debtors were
making voluntary assignments to elude the demands of,
the United States.-The several states had their insolvent laws, their attachment laws, and their state piiori.
ties. Without such a power the United States would
stand no chance in the general scramble.
Was it not politic, was it not necessary that the United States should guard against those evils ?
Against the plain words of the act, what is opposed?
1. The inconvenience and impolicy of the provision.
2. Its unconstitutionality.
1. The inconvenience or impolicy of a law are not
arguments to a judicial tribunal, if the' words of the
law are plain and express.
Such arguments must be reserved for legislative consideration.
But the Inconvenience is the same in the case of a
priority in the distribution of the estate of a deceased.
as ofa living debtor.
If it be allowed in the one case, why not in the other
The creditor knows not how soon his debtor mav
die, and he knows that if he dies insolvent the United
States, or the individual state, may sweep the whole.
It is said that the act of 1797, is repealed by that o!
1799. the former being within the purview pf the i. ter.

F-sHr.
V.
BLIGHT-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Fxa

But this is not the case. The 5th section of the
act of 1797 is not withii the purview of the act
Sof 1799.
The subjects are different. The act of 1799
speaks only of custom-house bonds. But when it provides that the surety shall have the same priority as the
United States, it implies that there are other cases of
priority already existing, but it neither gives nor takes
away such priority.
2. As to the question of constitutionality.
The constitution.is the supreme law of the land, and
not only this court, but every court in the union is bound
to decide the question of constitutionality.
They are bound to decide an act to be unconstitutional,
if the case is clear of doubt; but not on the ground of
inconvenience, inexpediency, or impolicy. It must be
a case in which the act and the constitution are in plain
conflict with each other. If the" question be doubtful
the court will presume that the legislature has nof eiceeded its powers. 3 Dal. 173, 175, Hylton v. United
States.
Congress have duties and powers expressly given, and
a right to make all laws necessary to enable them to perform those duties, and to exercise those powers. They
have a power to borrow mouey, and it is their duty to
provide for its payment. For this purpose they must
raise a revenue, and, to protect that revenue from fra'uds,
a power is necessary to claim a priority of payment.
There is no case under the act of 1797.in which the
trial byjury is excluded. It is true, that no credits are
to be admitted on the trial (except under particular
circumstances) but such as have been submitted to the
accounting officers of the treasury, and by them disallowed in whole or in part. But this does not abridge
the power of 'the jury. It is only establishing an inferior tribunal, and saving that no new evidence shall be ad.
mittedon the appeal, unless in the excepted cases.
All claims against the United States, whether urged as
independent claims, or by way of off-set, must pass the

FEBRUARY, 18o5s-

385

ordeal of the accounting officers of the treasury. If they
reject them there is an appeal, except in the case of
one class of debtors. The decision of the comptroller
is final and conclusive only as to the credits claimed by
" a person who has received monies for which" (that is
for the expenditure of which)" he is accountable to the
United States," and this not by the act of 1797, but by
that of 1795. Vol. 3, p. 225.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in this case is, whether the United States,
as holders of a protested bill of exchange, which has
been negotiated in the ordinary course of trade, are entitled to be preferred to the gineral creditors, where the
debtor becomes bankrupt ?

The claim to this prefereice is founded on the 5th
section of the act, entitled "an act to provide more ef"fectually for the settlement of accounts between the
"United States, and receivers of public money," Vol. 3,
p. 423. The section is in these words, " andbe it fur"ther enacted that where any revenue officer, or other
"person, hereafter becoming indebtedto the United States,
"by bond or otherwise, shall become insolvent, or where
"the estate of any deceased debtor, in the hands of ex"ecutors or administrators, shall be insufficient to pay all
"the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
"United States shall be first satisfied ; and the priority
"hereby established, shall be deemed to extend, -as well
"to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property
"to pay all his debts, shall make a voluntary a-§signment
"thereof, or in which the estate and effects of an abscond"ing; concealed, or absent debtor, shall be attached by
"process of law, as td cases in which an act of legal bank"ruptcy shall be committed.
That these words, taken in their natural an*d usual
sense, would embrace the case before the court, seems
not to be controverted. " Any revenue officer, or other
"person, hereafter becoming indebted to the .United
"States by bond or otherwise," ii-a description of persons, which, if neither explained nor restricted by other
words or circumstances, would coniprehend every debtor
of the public, however h4s debt might have been contracted.

Frssza
BLIHW.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FIsHEE

V.

But other parts of the act involve this question in
much embarrassment.
It is undoubtedly a well established principle in the
exposition of statutes, that every part is to be considered,
and the intention of the legislature to be ext,.at.ted from
the whole. It is also true, that where great inconvenience will result from a particular construction, that
construction is to be avoided, unless the meaning
of the legislature be plain ; in which case it must be
obeyed.
On the abstract principles which govern courts in
construing legislative acts, no difference of opinion can
exist. It is only in the application of those principles
that the difference discovers itself.
. As the enacting clause in this case, would plainly give
the United States the*preference they claim, it is incumabent on those who oppose that preference, to shew
an intent varying from that which the words import.
In doing this, the whole act has been critically examined; and it has been contended with great ingenuity,
that every part of it demonstrates the legislative mind
to have been directed towards a class of debtors, entirely different from those who become so by drawing
or indorsing bills, in the ordinary course of business.
The first part which has been-resorted to is the title.
On the influence which the title ought to have in con-.
struing'the enacting clauses, mich has been said; and
yet it is not easy to discern the point of difference between the opposing counsel in this respect. Neither
party contends that the title of an act can controul
plain words: in the body of the statute; and neither
denies that, taken with other parts, it may assist in removing ambiguities. Where the intent is plain, nothing is left to construction. Where the mind labours to
discover the design of the legislature, it seizes every
thing from which aid can be derived; and in such case
the title claims a degree of notice, and will have its due.
share of consideration.
The title of the act is unquestionably limited to "re-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

387

"ceivers of public money ;" a term which undoubtedly
excludes the defendants in the present case.
The counsel for the defendants have also complete.
ly succeeded in demonstrating that the four first sections of this act, relate only to particular classes of
debtors, among whom the drawer and indorsor of a
protested bill of exchange, would not be comprehended.
Wherever general words have been used in these sections, they are restrained by the subject to which they
relate, and by other words frequently in the same sentence, to particular objects, so as to make it apparent
that they were emplbyed by the legislature in a limited
sense. Hence it has been argued with great strength of
reasoning, that the same restricted interpretation ought
to be given to the fifth section likewise,
If the same reason for that interpretation exists ; if
the words of the act generally, or the particular provisions of this section, afford th'r same reason for limiting its operation which is afforded with respect to those
which precede it, then its operation must be limited to
the same 6bjects.
The 5th section relates entirely to the priority claimed by the United States, in the payment of debts.
On the phraseology of this act it has been observed,
that there is a circuity of expression, which would not
have been used if the intention of the legislature had
been to establish its priority in all cases whatever. Instead of saying "any revenue officer or other person
hereafter becoming indebted to the United States,' the
natural mode of expressing such an intent would have
been " any person indebted to the United States ;" and.
hence it has been inferred that debtors, of a particular
description only were in the mind of the legislature.
It is true the mode of expression which has been sugested, is at least as appropriate as that which has bee.
used ; but between the two there is no difference of
meaning; and-it cannot be pretended that the natural
sense of words is to be disregarded, because that which
they import might have been better, or.more directly
expressed.

FxsnL

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FIV.uf
ELTGHT.

As a branch of this argument, it has also been said
that the description commences with the very words
which are used in the beginning of the first section ; and
from that circumstance it has been inferred, that the
same class of cases was still in view. "[he commencing
words of each sectloh are " Any revenue officer or
other " person." But the argument drawn from this
source,, if the subject be pursued further, seems to operate against the defendants. -In the first section the
words are, " Any revenue officer or other person accountable for publicmoney." With this expression completely in view, and having used it in part, the 'description would probably have been adopted throughout, had
it been the intention of the legislature to describe the
same class of debtors. But it is immediately dropped,
and more comprehensive words are employed.. For
persons " accountable for- public money," "persons
"hereafter becoming indebted to the United States, by
"'bond or otherwise" are substituted. This change of
language strongly implies an intent to change the object
of legislation.
But the great effort on the part of the defendants is
to connect the fifth -with the four precee ding sections;
and to prove that as the general words in those sections
are restricted to debtors of a particular description, the
general words of the 5th section ought also to be restricted to debtors of the same description
On this
point lies the stress of the cause.
In the analysis of the foregoing parts of the act, the
counsel for the defendants have shewn that the general
terms which have been used are uniformly connected
with other words in the same section, and frequently
in the same sentence, which necessarily restrict them.
They have also shewn that the provisions of those parts
of the ict are of such a nature that the words, taking the
natural import of the whole sentence together, plainly
form provisions only adapted to a class of cases which
those words describe if used in a limited sense.
It may be added that the four first sections of the acare connected with -each other, and plainly contain pro.
visions on the same subject. They all relate to th(

FEBRUARY, 1805.
mode of proceeding on suits instituted in courLs, and
each section regulates a particular branch of that pro.
ceeding. Where the class of suits is described in the
first section, .it is natural to suppose that the subsequent regulations respecting suits apply to those which
have been described.
The first section directs that suits shall be instituted
against revenue officers and other persons accountable
for public money, and imposes a penalty on delinquents,
where a suit shall -be commenced and prosecuted to
judgment.
The second section directs that certain testimony shall
be admitted at the trial of the cause.
The third section prescribes the condition under which
a continuance may be granted :.-and
The fourth section respects the testimony which Tnay
be produced by the defendant.-These are all parts of
the same subject; and there is, strong reason, independent of the language of the act, to suppose that the pro.
visions respecing them were designed to be co-extensive
with eich other.
But the fifth section is totally unconnected with those
which precede it. Regulations of a suit in court no longer employ thermind of the legislature. The preference
of the United States to other creditors, becomhes the
subject of legislation; and as this subject is unconnected
with that which had been disposed of in the foregoing
sections, so is the language employed up.on it without
reference to that which had been previously used. If
this language was ambiguous, all the means recommended by the couilsel for the defendants would be resorted to in order to remove the ambiguity. But it appear, to the majority of the court, to be too explicit to
require the application of those principles which are use.

fil in doubtful cases.
The mischiefs to result from the construction on which
the United States insist, have been stated as strong MOtives for overruling that construction. " That the conse-

FIsHrn

v.
BLxo,1-r.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
quences are to be considered in expounding laws, where
Evazsn
.LG.,theintent is doubful, is a principle not to be controverted ; but it is also true that it is a principle which must be
applied with caution, and which has a degree of influence
dependent on the nature of the case to which it is applied. Where rights are infringed, 'where fundamental
principles are overthrown, where the general system of
the laws is departed from, the legislative intention must
be expressed with irresistible clearness to induce a co urt
of justice to suppose a design to effect such objects.But where only a political regulation is made, which is
inconvenient, if the intention of the legislature be expressed in terms which are sufficiently intetligible to leave
no doubt in the mind. when the words are taken in their
ordinary sense, it Would'be going a great way to say that
a constrained interpretation must be put upon them, to
avoid an inconvenience which ought tohave been contemplated in the legislature when the act was passed, and
which, in their opinion, was probably overbalanced by the
particular advantages it was calculated to produce.
Of the latter description of inconveniences, are those
occasioned by the act in question. It is for the legislature
to appreciate them. They are not of such magnitude as
to induce an opinion that the legislature could not intend
to expose the citizens of the United States to them, when
words are used which manifest that intent.
On this subject it is to be remarked, that no lien is created bythis law. No bonadetransfer ofproperty in the
ordinary course of business is overreached. It is only a
priority in payment, which, under different modifications,
is a regulation in common use ; and this priority is limited
to a particular state of things, when the debtor is living;
though it takes effect generally if he be dead.*
Passing from a consideration of the act itself, and the
consequences which flow from it, the counsel on each side
have sought to strengthen their construction by other acts
* in par materia.
* The Ch. J. in deliverig the opinion, qbserved as follows: "I only
say for myself, as the polntias not been fmbmitted to the court, that it
does not appear to me to create a deeactavit in the administration of e'.

fects, and would require notice in order to bind the executor, or adminis.
trator, or assignee.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

391

The act of the 3d of March, 1797, has been supposed
to be a continuation of legislative proceeding on the subject which was commenced on the thirdof March, 1795,
(vol. 3, p. 225.) by the act, " for the more effectual recovery of debts due from individuals to the United States,"
which relates exclusively to the receivers of public money.
Admitting the opinion,' that the act of 1797 was particularly designed to supply the defects of that of 179$, to
be correct, it does not seem to follow, that a substantive
and independent section, having no connection with the
provisions made in 1795, should be restricted by it.
The act of 1795 contains nothing relative to the priority
of the United States, and therefore will not explain the
5th section of the act of 1797, which relates exclusively to
that subject. But the act of 1797, neither in its title norits, enacting clauses, contains any words of reference to
the act of 1795. The words which are supposed to imply this reference are, "to provide more efectually.-But these words have relation to the existing state of the
law, on all the subjects to which the act of 1797 relates.
not to those alone which are comprehended in the act of
1795. The title of the act of 1795 is also, "for the more
effectual recovery of debts," and consequently refers to
certain pre-existing laws. The act of' 1797, therefore.
may be supposed to have in view the act of 1795, when
providing for the objects contemplated in that act; but:
must be supposed to haive other acts in view, when providing for objects not contemplated in that act.

. As, therefore, the act of 1795 contains nothing respect

ithe
priority of the United States, but is limited to provisions respecting suits in court, the act of 1797 may be
considered in connection with that act while on the subject
of suits in court; but when on the subject of preference.
must be considered in connection with acts which relate to
the preference of the United States.
The first act on this subject passed on the 31st of J1uly,
1789, § 21, and gave the United States a preference only
in the case of bonds for duties.

Fmaiir
V.
BLIGHT.

SUPREME COURT U. S
FISHE.t
Y.

On the 4th of AzuAst, 1790, vol 1, p. 221, an act was
passed on the same subject with that of 1789, which re-

Spealspeal
all fomeracts,
former
,and
the 21st
al
adre-enacts, in
i substance,
usacte2s
section, relative to the priority of the United States.

On the 2d of May, 1792, vol. 2, P; 78, the priority
previously given to the United States is transferred to the
sureties on duty bonds who shall themselves pay the debt ;
aud the cases of insolvency, in which this priority is to take
place, are explained to comprehend the case of a voluntary assignment, and the attached effects of an abscoriding,
concealed, or absent debtor.
Such was the title of the United States, to a preference
in the payment of debts previous tothe passage of the act of
1797. It was limited to bonds for the payment of duties on
imported goods, and on the tonnage of vessels. An internal revenue had been established, 'and extensive transactions had taken place'; in the course of which, many persons had necessarily become indebted to the United States.
But no attempt to give them a preference in the collection
of such debts had been made.
This subject is taken up in the 6th section of the act
of 1797. The term 0 revenue officer," which is used
in that act, would certainly comprehend any persons
employed in the collection of the internal revenue ; yet
it may be well doubted whether those persons are contemplated in the foregoing sections of the act. They
relate to a suit in court, and are perhaps. restricted to
those receivers of public money who have accounts on
the books of the treasury. The head of the department in each state most probably accounts with the treasury, and the sub-collectors account with him.
If this be correct, a claps of debtors would be introduced into the 5th section by the term " revenue officer," who are indeed within the title but not within the
preceding enacting clauses of the law.
But passing over this term, the succeeding Words
seem, to the majority of the court, certainly to produce
this effect. *They are " or other -person hereafter be" coming indebted to the United States, by bond or
" otherwise,"
If this section was designed to place

FEBRUARY, 1805.

393

the collection of the internal revenue on the same foot.
ing of security with the external revenue, as has been
argued by one of the counsel for the defendants, a design so reasonable that it would naturally be attributed
to the legislature, then the debtors for excise duties
would be comprehended within it ; yet those debtors cannot be brought within the itle, or ihe previous enact.
ing clauses of the bill.
The 5th sec. then would introduce a new class of debtors,
and if it does so in any case, the act furnishes no principle
which shall restrain the words of that section to every case
to which they apply.
Three acts of congress have passed, subsequent to that
under particular consideration, which have been supposed
to bear upon the case.
The first passed on the 11th of 7uly 1798, and is enti-.
tied " an act to regulate and Rix the compensation of the
" officers employed in collecting the internal revenues of
the United States, and to insure more effectually the set"tlement of their accounts." The 13th section of this act
(vol. 4,p. 196.) refers expressly to the provisions of the
act of March 1797, on the subject of suits to be instituted
on the bohds given by the officers collecting the internal
revenue, and shows conclusively that in the opinion of the
legislature the four first.sections of that act did riot extend
to the case of those officers ; consequently, if the 5th section extends to them, it introduces a class of debtors distinct from those contemplated in the clauses which respect
suits in court. The 15th section of this act-takes up. the
subject which is supposed to be contemplated by the 5th
section ofthe act of 1797, and declares the debt due from
these revenue officers to the United States to be a lien on
their real estates, and on the real estateg of their sureties
from the institution of suit thereon. It can scarcely be
supposed that the legislature would have given a lien on
the real estate without providing for a preference out of
the personal estate, especially where there was no real estate, unless that preference was understood to be secured
by a previous law.
The samae observation applies to a subsequent act of the
same session for laying a direct tax. A lien is reserved
;P

FrsH,.
v.

SUPREME. COURT U." S.
FnsSm

V.

on the real estate of the collector, without metioning any
claim to preference out of his personal estate.
The last law which contains any provision on the subject of preference passed on the 2d of March 1799. The
65th section of that act has been considered as repealing
the 5th section of the act of 1797, or of manifesting the
limited sense in whiich it is to be understood.
It must be admitted that this section involves the subject in additional perplexity; but it is the opinion of the
court, that on fair construction, it can apply only to bonds
taken for those duties on imports and tonnage, Which are
the subject of the act.
From the first law passed on this subject every act respecting the collection of those duties, had contained a section giving a preference to ihe United States, in case 'of
the insolvency of the collectors of them.
The act of 1797, if construed as the United States.would
construe it, would extend to those collectors if there was
no other provision in any other act giving a priority to the
United States in these cases. As there was such a previous.act, it might be supposed that its repeal by a subsequent law, would create a doubt whether the act of 1797
would comprehend the case, and therefore from abundant
caution it might be deemednecessary still to retain the section in the new act respecting those duties. The general repealing clause of the act of 1799 cannot be construed to repeal the act of 1797, unless it provides for the cases to
which that act extends.
It has also been argued that the bankrupt law itself affbrds ground for the opinion that the United States do'not
claim a general preference. (vol. 5, p. 82.) The words
of the 62d section of that law apply to debts generally as
secured by prior acts. But as that section was not upon
the subject of preference, but was merely designed to retain the right of the United States in their existing situation, whatever that situation might be, the question may
well be supposed not to have been investigated at that time#
and the expressions of the secqion were probably not considered with a view- to any influence they might. have on
those rights.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

395

After maturely considering this doubtful statute, and
comparing it with other acts inpari materia, it is the opinion of the majority of the court, that the preference
given to the United States by the 5th section is not confined to revenue officers and persons accountable for public money, but extends to debtors generally.
Supposing this distinction not to exist, it is contended
that this priority of the United States cannot take effect in
any case where suit has not been instituted; and in support of this opinion several decisions of the English judges with respect to the prerogative of the crown have been
quoted.
To this argument tlae express words of the act of ccngress seem to be opposed. The UIgislature has declared
the time when this priority shall have its commencement;
and the court think those words conclusive" on the point.
The cases certainly shew that a bbnaftde alienation of property before the right of prioritygttaches will be good, but
that does not affect the present case. From the decisions
on this subject a very ingenious argument was drawn by
the counsel who made this point.- The bankrupt law, he
says, does not bind the king because he is not named in
it; yet it has been adjudged that the effects of a bankrupt
are placed beyond the reach of the king by the assignment
fhade under that law, unless they shall have been previously bound. He argues, that according to the understanding of the legislature, as proved by their acts relative to insolvent debtors,- and, according to the decisions in some of
the inferior courts, the bankrupt law would not bind the
United States although the 62d section had not been inserted. That section therefore is only an expression of
what would be law without it, and consequently is an immaterial section: as the king, though not. bound by the
bankrupt law, is bound by the assignment made under it;
so, he contended, that the United States, though not bound
by the law, are bound by the assignment.
But the assignment is made under, and by the direction
of the law; and a proviso that nothing contained in the
law shall affect the right of preference claimed by the United States is equivalent to a proviso, that. the assignment
shall not affect the right of preference claimed by the United States.

Fxsum
v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

396
Fisaps
V.

BLIGT.

If the act has attempted to give the United States a pre-

ference in the case L-efore the court, it remains to inquire
Swhether

the constitution obstructs its operation.

To the general observations made on this subject, it will
only be observed, that as the court can never-be unmindful of the solemn duty imposed on the judiciPl"department
when a claim is supported by an act which donflicts with
the constitution, so the court can never be unmindful -of
its duty to obey laws which are aiathorised by that instrument.
In the case at bar, the preference claimed by the United
States is not prohibited ; but it has been truly said that under a constitution conferring specific powers, the power
contended for must be granted, or it cannot be exercised.
It is claimed under the authority to make all laws which
qhall be necessary and proper to carry into execution ihe
powers vested by the. constitution in the government -f
the United States, or in any department or officer thereof.
In construing this clause it would be incorrect and
would produce en4less difficulties, if the opinion should
be maintained that no law was authorised which was not
indispensably necessary to give effect to a specified power.
Where various systems might be adopted for that purpose. it might be said with respect to each, that it was
not necessary.. because the end might be obtained by
other meanp. Congress must possess the choice of
.eais&
4 and mnust be empowered to use any means which
are in fact conducive to the exercise of a power granted
by the constitution.
The government is to pay the debt of the union, and
must be authorlsed to use the means which appear to it.
self most eligible to -effect that object. It has conse.
quently a right to make remittances by bills or otherwise,
and to take those precautions which will render the
transaction safe.
This-caim of prority itthe part of the United States

FEBRUARY, 1805.
will, it has been said, interfere with the right of the
state .4overeignties respecting the dignity of debts, and
will defeat the measures they have a right to adopt to
secure themselves against delinquencies on the part of
their own revenue officers.
But this is an objection to the constitution itself. The
mischief suggested, so far as it can really h'appen, is the
necessary consequence of the supremacy of the laws of
the United States on all subjects to which the legisla.
tive power of congress extends.
As the opinion given in the court below was that the
plaintiffs did not maintain their action on the whole testimony exhibited, it is necessary to examine that testimony.
It appe'ars that the plaintiffs have proceeded on the
transcripts from the books of the treasury, under the
idea that this suit is maintainable under the act of 1797.
The court does not mean to sanction that opinion; but,
as no objection was taken to the testilmony, it is understogd to have been admitted. It is also understood that
there is no question to be made respecting notice; but
that the existence of the debt is admitted, and the right
of the United States to priorit7 of payment is the only
real point in the cause.
The majority of this court is of opinion that the United, States are entitled to that priority, and therefore the
judgment of, the circuit court is to be reversed, and the
cause to be remanided for further proceedings.
Yudgment reversed.
WAS11INGTON, J. Although I take no p.-rt in the
decision of this cause, I feel myself justified by the importance of the question in declaring the reasons which
induced the circuit court of Pennsylvania to pronounce
the opinion which is to be re-examined here.
In any instance where I am pounfortunate as to differ
with this court, I cannot fail to doubt the correctness of
my own opinion. But if I cannot feel convinced of the

FisHrn

v
BLIGHT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FIsInZI

V,

e.rror, I owe it in some measure to myself and to those
who may be injured by the expense and delay to which
Sthey have been exposed to shew at least that the opinion
was not hastily or inconsiderately given.
The question is, have the United States a right in all
cases whatever to claim a preference of other creditors
in the payment of debts. At the circuit court the counsel for the Urited States disclaimed all ide4 of founding
this right upon prerogative principles, ane yet, if I am.
not greatly mistaken, the doctrine contended for places
this right upon ground at least as broad as would have
been asserted in an English court.
The whole question must turn upon the construction
of acts of congress, and particularly that of the 3d
of March 1797. The title of the law is - an act to provide more effectually for the settlement of accounts between the United States and receivers of public money."
The first section describes more specially, the persons
who are the objects of the law; points out the particular
officer whose duty it shall be to institute, suits against
those public delinquents thus marked out; 'declares thb
fate of interest to"be recovered upon balances due to the
United States, and imposes a forfeiture'of commissions
on the delinquent.
The 2d section defines the kind of evidence to be admitted on the part of 'the United States, in the trial of
suits in all cases of delinquency'
The 3d section gives to the United States in such actions, a preference of all other suitors in court, by directijg the"trial of sucl causes to take place at the returnierm upon motion, unless the defendant will make
oath that he is entitled to credits which have been
submitted to the consideration of the accounting. officers of the treasury, and rejected.
The 4th siction takes-tup am -case "of the defendant,
and declares under what cifbumstanues he shall be entitled to the benefit of off-sets.

FEBRUARY, 1805.
The 5th section brings us to an important part of the
trial, land furnishes a rule to govern the court in the
the
judgment it is to render, in cases where the claim of
United States might, by reason of the insolvency of the
debtor, g6 unsatisfied, unless preferred to that of a private citizen.
The 6th section is general in its terms, and relates to
executions where the defendant or his property is to be
found in any d&strict other than that in which the judgment wasrendered.
This is a concise view of the different parts of this
act, and. I shall now examine more particularly the expressions of the 5th section, taken in connection with
those which precede it.
The words are " that where any revenue officer or
otheerperson herjeafter becoming indebted to the United
States by bond or otherwise, shall beccme insolvent,
the debt due to the United States shall be first satisfied," &c.
It is conceded that the words "or other person" are
broad enough "to comprehend every possible case of
debts due to the United States, and therefore a literal
interpretation is coniended for by those who advocate
the interest of the United States. On the otheiz side, a
limitation of those expressions is said to be more cons6nfint with the obvious ineaning of the legislature,
which contemplates those debtors only -ho are accountable for public money.
Where a law is plain and unamibiguous, whether it be
expressed in general or' limited ternis, the legislature
should be intended to mean what they have plainly expressed, and consequently no room is. left for construction. But if, from a view of the wholk law, or from
other laws in pari materia, the evident intention is dilferent from the literal import of the terms employed
to express it in a particular part of the law, that intention should prevail, for that ii fact is the will of the legislature.

Fmsa
r.
B.y.r.

BLIGIn

SUPREME COURT U. S.
1Fxz:
B.S

If a section be introduced which is a stranger to and
unconnected with the purview of the act, it must nevertheless take effect according to its obvious meaning,
independent of all influence from other parts of the law.,
Nay, if it be a part of the same subject, and either enlarges or restrains the expressions used in other parts of
the same act, it must be interpreted according to the
import of the words used, if nothing can be gathered
from such other parts of the law to change the meaning.
But if in this latter case, general words are used which
import more than seems to have been within the purview
of the law, o.: of the other parts of the law, and those
expressions can be restrained by others used in the
aame law, or in any .other upon the same subject,, they
ought in my opinion to'be restrained.
So it thA literal expressions of the law would lead to
consequences, :such a
absurd" unjust. -inconvenient
construction shoulcab ,iven as to avoid such consequences, if, from the wholc puryiew of the law, and
giving effect to the words used, it may fairly be done.
These rules are not merely artificial; they are as clear.
ly founded in plain sense, as they are certainly warranted by the principles of common law.
The subject intended tobe legislated upon is sometimes
statedin a preamble, sometimes in the title to the law, and
is -sometimes,I admit, mistated, or not fully stated. The
preamble of an act of parliament is said to be a key to
the knowledge of it, and to open the intent of thelaw-makers: and so I say as to the title ofa law of congress, which
being the deliberate act of those who make the-law, is
not less to be respected as an expression of their intention, than if it preceded the enacting clause in the form
of a preamble. But neither the title or preamble can be
resorted to for the purpose o r controuling the' enacting
clauses, except in cases of ambiguity, or where general
expressions are used inconsistent or unconnected with
the scope and purview of the whole law.
They are to be deemed true, unless contradicted by
the enacting clauses, and it is fair in the cases I have
.stated to argue from them.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

401

The object of this law then, as declared by the title, is
to provide for the effectual settlement of debts due to
the United States, .fro'i receivers of public money. To
effect this, suits are directed, the species of evidence
to support the claim on the part of the plaintiff is
pointed out, and a speedy trial provided ; on the part
of the defendant, a limited right -to oppose the claim
by offsets is provided, and the claim of the United
States is to have a preference of other creditors, where
the debtor is unable to satisfy the whole. Here then
is one entire connected su~bject-the different provisions of the law constituting the links of the same
chain, the members of the same body. It will not, I
presume, be denied, that the three first sections of the
law apply to those only who are declared by the title to
be the objects of its provisions. The 4th section is the
first which uses general expressions, without a referince
to those who had before been spoken of; and yet I think
it will hardly be contended that this section is not clos6ly and intimately connected with the same subject.When we come to the 5th section the reference to the
three first sections is.
again resumed, with the addition of
the words "or any other person." So that instead of
the words "revenue officers or other persons accountable for public money," used in the-first section, this section uses the words " revenue officers or other persons
indebted to the United States."
Nov it is obvious that these expressions may have
precisely the same meaning, so as to comprehend the
same persons, although the latter may be construed to include persons not within the meaning of the first section.
Forpersons accountablefor jiublic money, are also other
persons than revenue offcers indebted to the UnitedStates.;
and the latter may, by a construction conformable to the
othei parts of the law, mean persons accountablefor public money; and by an intehded 'construction, they may
comprehend others, who in no sense of the expressions
used, can be said to be accountable for public money.
It is tfn'tobe inquired, is the court bound by any known
rules of law to give to the words thus used in the 5th
section a meaning extensive enough to comprehend persons never contemplated by the title of the law, and most

FxsHXR
V.
BLIGUT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Fisum

V.

sedulously ex cludedby the three first sections? Doeb justice
to the public, or convenience to individuals demand it ?
Is such a construction necessary in order to give effect to
any one expression used by the legislature ?
. Shall we violate the manifest ihtention of the legislature, if we stop short of the point to which we are invited
to go in the construction of this section ?
To all these questions I-thinak myself warranted in answering in the negative.
As to the first. Do the principles of equity, or of strict
justice discriminate between individuals standing inequali
jure and claiming debts of equal dignity. ?The natureof the debt, may weMwarrant a discrimination ; but not so, if the.privilege be merely of a personal
nature. The sovereigti may in the exercise of his powers
secure to himself this exclusive privilege of being preferred
to the citizens, but this is no evidence that the. claim is
sanctioned by the principles of.immutable justice. If this
right is asserted, individuals must 'submit ; but I do not
find it.in my co-nacience to go further in advancement of
the claim, than the words of the law fairly interpreted.,
in ielation- to the whole law, compel me. But I do
not think that congress' meant to exercise their power
to the extent contended for, First; because in every other
section of the law they have declarid adifferent intent ; and
secondly, because it would not ohly be productive of the
most cruel injustice to individuals, but would tend to destroy more than any other act I can imagine all confidence
between man and man. The preference claimed is not
only unequal in respect to private ciiizens, but is of a nature against which the most &Iruddnt man cannot guard
himself. As to public officers and receivers of public
money of all descriptions, they are, or may be known as
such; and any person dealing with them, does it at the
peril.ofbeing postponed to any debts his debtor may owe
to the United States, should he become unfortunate. He
acts with his eyes open, and has it in his power,to calculate the risk he is willing to run.
But if this preference exists in everw possible .case of
contracis between the Unifted States abd an individual,

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

403

there is no means by which any man can be apprized of
his danger, in dealing with the same person.

2. Is this broad construction necessary in order to
give effect to the expressions of the law ? I have endeavoured to shew that all ac.ountableagents are other persons than revenue officers indebted to the United States.
The words then " other persons" are satisfied by comprehending all those persons, to whom the first section
extends.
3. Is this construction rendered necessary to fulfil the
manifest intent of the legislature ? So far from it, that
to my mind, it is in direct opposition to an intention
plainly expressed by all the other parts of the law. To
prove this I again refer to the title of the law ; to the
three firs. sections, which are in strict conforhiity with
it, and that too by express words; and to the fourth
section, which is so plainly a part of the tame subject,
that it cannot be construed to go farther than those
which precede it. Is the fifth section a'stranger to the
others ; unnaturally placed there without having a connection with the other-sections ?.
If this be the case, I have already admitted rules of
construction, strong enough to condemn the opinion I
hold. But let us examine this point.
The object of the four first sections is to enforce by
suit, where necessary, the payment of debts due to the
United States from a particular class of debtors. It
points out the officer who is to order the suit, declares
at what term the cause shall be tried, lays down rules of
evidence to be regarded in support of the action, extends to the defendant the benefit of making offsets under certain qualifications, and then most naturally, as I
conceive, comes"the fifth section, relating to the judgment which the court is to render in case a contest
should ensue between the United States and individual'
creditors on account of inability in the debtor to satisfy
the whole. What if an-individual creditor should attach the property of the debtor before'the United States
had taken steps to recover their debt ? Or if the debtor
should assign away his property, or it should be claim-

Fsurt
V.

B LIGH'T.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
FlounH

v.

ed by assignuees under a commission of bankruptcy; or
the defendant being an executor, should plead fully administered except so much as would be sufficient to satisfy judgments, bond debts, or other debts superior in
dignity to that of the United States? This section establishes a plain rule by which the court must proceed in ren.
dering its judgment whenever those cases occur.-,.
What- would have signified all the other provisions of
the law, unless a rule of decision had been prescribed
in cases where otherwise the United States might never
obtain the fruit of those steps which their officers .were
pursuing ?
Can a section in a law which professes to afford a remedy .ina particular case by process of law, be s;.id not to
belong to the law, when it leads to.the point of a judgment, which is the consummation of the proceedings !n
the case? I think not; and therefore.I cannot acquiesce in
the opinion that- the 5th section is unconnected with the
other parts of the law.
I have before cbserved that the 4th section is the first
which uses general. expressions, without reference to
those which had before been particularly mentioned ; but
,that when we come to the 5th section the reference is
again taken up, with the addition of thos6 words which
produce the difficulty of the case,
Now I ask in the first place, what necessity was there
for departing from the mode of expression used in the
4th'section, which for the first time is general, without
particular reference to any of the persons before described.' Would it not have been as well in the 5th as in
the 4th section, to say " that where any individual be"coming indebted to the United States, shall become
" insolvent," &c. .What reason can be assigned for the
specification of revenue oficers, one class of persons
mentioned expressly in the 1st section, intended in
the 2d and 3d by plain words of reference, and clearly
meant in the 4th, when it must be admitted that the
words used in the 4th section, or the words" other per
sons," in the 5th would have comprehended revenue offi
cers if they were broad enough to include every de
scription of persons indebted to the United State.-

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

405

Unless they are construed to limit and restrain the gen.
erality of the words

"

other persons," they are absolute-

ly without any use or meaning whatever. If the preceding sections had applied only to revenue ofcers, then
from necessity we must have construed the words "other
persons," as broad as their natural import would warrant, because otherwise, they would have been nugatory,
and we would have found no rule in the law itself, by
which to limit the generality of the expression.
But when the law professes in its title to relate to all
accountable agents besides revenue officers, and the
first section specifies amongst these agents, " revenue
officers," we have a rule by which to restrain the sweeping expressions in the 5th sectioii, viz. "or other person accountable, or indebted as aforesaid." This construction renders the law uniform throughout, and consistent with what it professes in every, other section.
2d. In confirmation of this construction, the 62d section of the bankruptlaw does, in my opinion, deserve
attention, If the United. States were, at the time that
law passed, entitled to apreference in every possible
case, by virtue. of the general expressions in the law I
have just been considering, what necessity was there
for limiting the saving of the right of preference to
debts due to the United States, " as secured or provided by any law heretofore passed." This mode of expression leads me to conclude that'the legislature supposed there were some cases where this preference had
not been provided for by law. If not, it would certainly
have been sufficient to declare, that the bankrupt law
should not extend to or affect the right of pref6rence to
prior satisfaction of debts due the United States.

FsHER

V.
BLIGHT.

