FEBRUARY, 1005i.

410

GRAVES AND BARNEWALL

GRAVES&
AREWA1L

.

y.

BOSTON MARINE INSURANCE COMPANY. M.
Ti I.-CoosTON
P
iA-This was an appeal from the circuit court. for the dis-

NY-

trict of Massachusetts, on a decree in chancery dismissing •x'

"'

the plaintiffs. bill ; the object t)f which was to charge the the name of
defendants upon a policy of iniurance, and to obtain relief one joint own.
against a mistake alleged to have been made by inserting er, " a proonly the name of Graves in the policy, whereas the inter-. Prr'
QP
ear,"I~y(with.
est of both Graves and.Barnewall was intended to have out the clause
been insured.
stating them.n,
thlebenfitwurance
to befor

The bill stated that Graves and Barnewaltwereequally of all n-ern
aid jointly interestediaft the ship Northern Liberties and ed) does not
her cargo-and that various -sums of money were by each covei t "ir
ofthe partners, and at different places, prccured to be insur- t erest of anoed upon theship and cargo from New-York to Teneriffe, t.e r° town.
as well as from thence to La Vera Cruz, but in every in- The ihnt rest of
stance
for their
and equal
benefit.
That
acol~tnership
oer" e.gi.
th 24tht of :¢annt
.onamong
Graves
thereon;~
•insurance
forjoint
applications
, ve rn eviden'S
:
.
•
.;
.
and son,--n
i-.'"et olbit
Messrs.
rate of remiuxi
wrote to bf
what Sigourney
1800, inquiring
thm atElisha
April
of Boston,.
theri-" idali~tere,
surace could b'e there obtained upon that risk, and inthe nr. ~r
intereted
parti's
the
of
one'
as
himself
in dscribng
intezm~t 'ofbe a
answer'fe
their your
re'ceiving
office company
Upon
ifisured.
saying,e"
property to be
1800,
May
of
5th
the
on
wrote again
speial .con.
by
from asuppoed
inqurig,
I wassailed
riskasshe
thetme
for of
a premium
"ask
cannot be out
vessel
tothe inter
; thehigh
"after too
haveno
where
. tr'a ct r e la tn
.
we
Tenerffe inFebruary,
hc enefo
e n•C
he had sailed; of an
so thatcitT.
less
arrived;
had
she
that
learned
officesre
u
t
tIm o a
fun no risks'where can fielp~ dual.-.
toLa
to 0sif
rnciple
w~t
"but as it is "my
her Th. eidnc
it, have prev aled upon my copartner to antcipate
aper- ledeoftheun.
you
gve
To
Cruz,
Vera
to
again
sling
and
'"arival
to ourh
will. tiervrters, of
ofthe
insuared, you
to beapplication
of iesderisk
ofthe
the other
"feet idea
on nature
a copy
"find
half thetineofmat
"of~ewho~took a god deal.at seventeen and a per kngthe pottwo
.one-or
give
to
induced.
be
may
we
;
cent
",
per
wsh ou to say cy; ought to a
cent more to complete the business, andyou
at seventeen
'e have beouverytify lear,
with
and
effected
be
so,
not
if
it could
that0;
"whether
near
I tyin onfrm.
"and a half per c at, or
answer
yonr
before a retui of
g the policy
twentyor
"not isured elhere,
to effect twenty
to that iner.
"may likely give you an order
"five thousand dollars,
arsiball, Cilf .J.s ateron,p
i resent,c
Justices.
wohnton,

asingte,

and
iCn-heng,

aver-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The copy of the application annexed to the letter, stated,
that "on the 20th of February last, 'the ship Northern
" Liberties sailed from this for Teneriffe commanded by
V.
i.. coMpA. "9FrederickKing, a man of courage and good conduct;
NY.
"she mounted sixteen six pounders, and had a crew of
d1
"thirty in. number. No vessel could have been more
4completely fitted, is copper sheated, and by.the report of
"the pilot who carried her out to sea, sails remarkably
"fast. Upon this vessl's cargo we want insurance at and
"from Teneriffe io La Vera Cruz. The ship an4 cargo
"creally and truly belong to American, citizen." ' lat
the said letterand copy of the application were, by E. Sigourney and sons, as agents of the comp!ainants, laid before
the president and directors of the Boston Marine Insurance Company, who thereupon offered to.beconle insurers
upon the. property therein mentioned at a certain rate of
premium then mentioned to'the said E. Sigourney and
sons, which they communicated to Graves, who by letter
of 15th May 1800, with the concurrence of Barneoall,
directed insurance *to be. made upon the cargo to the
amount of 1Z,000 dollars, upon the best terms, within certin limits, which could be obtained. Whereuponi and in
pursuance of such directions, -. Sig-ourney and sons did
cause such insurance to be made, and among others, the
Boston Marine Insurance Company, did, hy policy of i.
surance dated June 14th 1800, become assurers in the sum
of 10,000 dollars upon the cargo of the said ship, for the
voyage mentioned in the said letter.

GRAvzfs &

BARZIALL

That previous to the date of the said policy, an altem-"
tion was made by the company in the common form of
marine policies used in this. country, by which alteration
the ordinary clause importing the insurance to be made as
well for the benefit of the persons named in the policy, as
for th benefit of all concerned,.wasomitted, and that such
altered form was used bv the company in making the- in.surance for the complainants ; and that. neither the complainants nor their agents the said E. Sigourney'and sons,
had any notice or knowledge ofesuch alteratio n.
That the said letter of Gravoe,. and the copy of the application were shewn to the president and directors'of the
company as the order for the said insurance, and were received and acted upon by them as the 'basis upon which
such insurance was made. A d that it wa -wellunder-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

42t

stood as well on the part of the said president and directors GRAvzz k
of the'said company, as also on the pait of the.cormplain- BA iAL1.
ants, and their said agents, E. Sigourney and sons,that the Tur BosToN
property intended to be insured by the said policy was the M. L.CompA.
Ny.
joint property of a certain company or copartnership, of
which Graves was a member, and not his separate or individual property ; and that the object and intent of the said
insurance was to cover the interest of the concerned
therein in general, ind not his particular and separate interest But that owing to ignorance on the part Qf the
complainahts, -and of their agents, of such -alteration or
omission in the form of the printed policies used by th'
said company, and to inadverfence and mistake on the
part of the company, or their president, or secretary, in
filling up the Same, Ihe name of Graves only iyas inserted.
That in the prosecution of the voyage insured the ship
and cargo were totally lost by the perils of the sea.
The answer of the company, by their president,- finder
the corporate seal, admitted the execution of the policy,
and tjat Graves had sonme interest in the property insured,
but they did not know to what amount-that upon due
proof of loss they were bound and are ready to pay him the
amount of loss which he had sustained. It aadmits that E.
Sigourney, in the beginning of May, appliedfor insurance,
but denies that either of the letters of the 24th of April or
5th ofMay was -shewn to him, or left with the president or
secretary ofthe 6ompanyor any other person, for their use.'
It admits that the copy of.the application to the New-Yoik
offices was left with the president, but avers that the premium required was. higher than E. Sigourney .and sons
would give, and thatno bargain or contract was at that time
made, but the application was withdrawn. ,Thatno insurance was made by them in pursuance of thb letter of the
15th of May, or any other letter from Graves, and no further application was made until the 14th of. June, when
Andrew Sigourney applied for the insurance of 10,000
dollars on the cargo of -the ship Northern Liberties;
whereupon the policy was made for and on account of
foAn Boonen Graves, and for account of no other person
whatsoever. It denies that before or at the time of making
and subscribing the policy, it was mentioned by the said
Sigourney and sons, or either of them, or known, or understood, or suspected by the defendant, that the properiy

SUPREME COURT U. S.
proposed to be insured was the joint property of Grave*
and Barnewall, or of any company or copartnership of
Tk -osToN which:Graves was a.member, or that it was the object and
M. L CompA. intent of'the siidinisurance to cover the interest of the
NY.
concerned therein in general, but only the separate and
'
Y
particular ihterest of Graves.
. f(RAVZS &
BZATzSWALL
V.

It denies all mistake or misunderstanding in inserting
the name of Graves alone; but insists that his name alone
was inserted because the interest of no other person was
intended to be insured.
It avers that after the policy was prepared and - filled up,
it waC. delivered to Andrew .Sigourney, of the house of E.
Sigourney and sons, and by him read and approved, and
that he thereupon gave his promissory. note for the premium.
'It denies that any alteration or omission in the form of
-policies had been readeor adopted by the president and directors subsequent to the form first adopted, and agreed
upon by them after their incorporation, and avers that the
form. in the present case is the same which was then adopted ; and which was settled by the president -aid directors
upon mature advice and'deliberation, and with the express
intent that the president and directors might know the nature, character, quality, and condition of every person
whose interest they might insure, and to protect themselves
from all responsilility and hazard.on'account of the interest of any person or persons not named in the policy ; and
'that the said printed form had been openly and continually
used by the company, of which.all persons procuring insu-"
rance to be done at their office had notice; and that a like
form had been used at the other offices in Boston, for
more than a year before the 14th June, 1800.
The deposition of Elisha .igourney stated, that aboue
the 12th of May, 1800, he shtewed Graves's letter of 5th
of May, to a person writing as clerk in the office of the
defendants, and left it with him until the next morning,:
when the clerk informed him-the term on which the pre-"
sident and directors would insure.
That at the time of effecting the insurancei; he did not
kr.ow that the form adopted by that insurance compani

FEBRUARY, 1805.

.423

differed from the usual form ; but supposed the interest GnAvEs 9
of all concerned wat insured.

B.uLzwAz.L
V.

THE

The deposition of Andrew Sigourney stated, that onM . I.
the 14th of June, when he made application for insurance,
he shewed to Mr. May, the secretary of the company,
only the instructions on the back of the letter of the 5th of
May, and a memorandum to inseit the words "as property may appear." That he did not read any but the
written part of the policy before he took .it
froin the office.
That at the time of making the application, he did not
mention the name of my person as interested in that insuran.ce, except the name of _7ohn Booncn Graves. He only
shewed the instructions.
That he knew by the letter of Graves that he had part-.
ners, but he did not know the name of-any of them: He
supposed that the policy covered -the interest of all concerned, and had no notice of any variation from the customary form ofpolicires.
.The deposition of Mr. May, the secretary of the company, stated that the only paper which A. Sigourney shew-'
ed him on the 14th of June, when he applied for insurance,'.
was a copy of a proposal made to Pome other offices for,
insurance on the same risk; 'and that h6 did not leave it,
but only shewed.it to the deponent. That he, the secretary, filled the policy; and understood the insurance was
for Grazies, -and for no.one else, as the policy purports.That he is iot sensible of any error in the filling'it ; that
he filled it as he understood the intention of the parties in.
the contiact. That A. Sigourniiy read it over delib.erately
before he gave the premium note; and after reading.& it
went away. He afterwardsrdtuined, .and-requested the
secretary to add to it the words "as pioperty may apear!'
which by. permission of the presideAit were interline&
That the first policy'written by the company was dated
the 3d of April 1799." That the president and directors
had made'no alteration in the p'riuted form of policies f'ond

their first commeincing busIPess intil the 14th of June,
1800.

On the 9th of May, E. Sigourizey and-on'jn answer
to Graves's letter of the-5th, say that the geAtanen will
not insure under 20 per cent premium..

6%:zr,
COMPAJ',

SUPREME COURT U. S.
UTAVkS &
On theto15th
of' "for
ay, Graves,
in answer,
requested
inBAUX~wA-L
surance
be made
21,000 dollars
on the
ship valued
V.

T*E Rosior 'at that sum; and 16,000 dollarg on the cargo as interest
M. I. CompA- "shall appear. The latter conipletes~the sum intended to
Y.

"insure on the cargo. Your policy therefore being the
" last dated, it is understbod that short interest (if any
" should appear) is to be settled with your underwriters."
On the 3d of June, E. .Sigourney and sons write to
Graves that " 5900 dollars is done on your policy or' the
"cargo. It goes on very heavily."
Graves, in answer, on the 10th of June, says, " with
"much reluctance do I learn the little progress you have
" made.in insuring the cargo. I hope by offeri..g 2 1-2
"per cent more, you may induce the companies or so-.
"lid individuals to flU'up the remainder. At any rate
"it will not answer my purpose to have the riqk unaccom"plished ; you, therefore, on receiing these presents,
" will please to ascertain whether there is a prospect of
"succeeding.
If not, give me immediate notice in or"der to propose it elsewhere"
'"The material words of the policy are, "this policy
"ofassurance witnesseth that the president and directors
"of the Boston Marine Insurance Company do by these
"1presents, cause )ohn Boonen Graves to be assured, lost
"or not lost, ten thousand dollars on property on board
"the ship Northern Liberties, as property may appear,
"at and from Teneriffe to Vera.Cruz."'

"And it is hereby agreed that if the issured sall have
"made any other assurance upon the property aforesaid,
"1prior in date to this policy, then the said insurance
"compny shall be answerable only for so much as the
"amouni-of such prior adsurance may be deficient to"wards fully covering the property at risk. And the
"said insurance compa y shall receive the premiu-n (ex"ceptiog half per.cent) upon so much of the sum by them
assured, .as they' shall be exonerated from by such-pri"qrassurance. And in case of an@ assurance upon said
"property subsecuent in date to this policy, the said in"surance company shall n verthelpss be answerable to
"the full extent 'of the sum b- them herein assured,
"without zight to claim contribution from. such- subse-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

425

"qxent assurers, and shall accordingly be entitled to re. GRAVES &
by them received, in the same man- BARNwa
premium
V.
"tan the
"ner
s if no
such subsequent
assurance had been made." TH. BoSTon.
M. I. Co3ipA..'

It was fully proved that Graves and Barnezvallwere
jointly and -equally interested in the ship and. argo. And
the representation to the New-York offices stated thAt
fact. Four other policies upon the same ship and cargo, and for the same voyage, were exhibited by the
complainants, all of which had the usualeclause, " as
"well in his own name, as for and- in the name and
,€ names of every other person or persons to whom the
"same doth, may, or shall appertain in pari or in whole."
Three of them were in the name of Graves, and one in
the name of Barnewall.
There was full proof of a total loss of ship and cargo.
'A suit at law had been brought by Graves and Barne.
Ivall, upon the present policy, in which judgment was
rendered against them, which judgment was. affirmed in
this court at December term, 1801.This cause was argued at Februaryterm 1804, byStock.
ton, of New-Jersey; and Martin, of Maryland for the
appellants, and by Harper,of Maryland, and Key, of the
district of Columbia, far the appellees ; and at this term
by Stockton, for the appellants, and Harper and Ingersoll, of Pennsylvania; for the appellees.
Stockton, for appellants, made three points
1. That Graves is to be considered either as ajoint partner, having sufficient interest in the whole property to
charge the defendants to the amount of their subscription : or, 1st, as .insurirtg in his own right as far as his
interest extended, and 2d, as trustee fo" his partner for
the-residue of the interest ; and that it is competent for
him to charge the defendants on this policy to-the
amount of his own interest, and also to the amount of
the interest of him for whom he was agent or trustee.
2. That at the time 'this policy was effected, it was
the intention of both parties tb insure the qntire inte

NY

SUPREME COURT U. S.
if such is laot the
rest of both Gravesand Barnewall;and
literal construction of the policy, the words wher.by
. -" the policy is confined to the interst of Graves shall be
TH
M. I. CoMpA.. considered as havihg beeti inserted by mistake.
GAtsVZR &
BAUNSWALL

'

*'

'

a.That if the intent of both parties cannot be s.qid
to be sufficiently manifest, still there is full proof Qf
mistake on one side, and such conduct on the"other as
will prove. the defendaiits to have acted- 7nalaftde: and
they are chargeable on that ground.
1. That the entire property of Graves & Barnewall is
covered by the policy,
1. Because each has an insurable interest in the vihole;
and 2. Becauise Graves had power to act for himself, and
as agent for Barnewvall.*
1. It is not necessary that the names of all concerned
should be inserted in: the policy: and such was the law
in'England until the year 1785, when the statute of 25
Geo. 3. was' enacted which rendered it necessary to insert the names of every person interested; but this was
repealed by ihe statute of 28 Ged. 3. which only makes
it necessary to insert the name of one of the parties
insured or his agent.
Nor is it necessary that the insured should have the
absolute ownership of the- thing. A mortgagor and
mortgagee may both insure. Seamen on board the
king's.ships may insuretheir prizv-money. A general
property is one 'thing,'and insurable interest another.
1

llfarshall, 212, 213, 214.

A joint partner has an insurable interest in the whole
mass of partnership property. He has a general right
and authority over the whole, whether the partnership
be general or special. They are jointly seized, per mi
etper tout. The joint effects and duties survive. The
•executor of a deceased partner has only a right to compel the survivor to account, and tb recover the balanqp,
e11cy
* Ingersoll referred to .Emerigon, as an authority.that in such a
ds this, neithe the joint property of both, nor the share of either inthe
property
separate
only
the
thatproduced.
it covers
; butnot
joint property, is insured
book was

of (.raes. But the

FEBRUARY, 1805.
Each has a power singly to dispose of the whole partnership effects. Cowp. 445, 448. Fox v. Hanbury.

GaAvis &
BARNEWALL
V.

Tnz

BOSTO

The care of Page.and Fry, 2 B. & P. 240, i in M. x.CompA.
NY.
point. 'f here the averment was that Hyde & Houbbs
were interested in the cargo insured to the amount of
all the money insured thereon; and alihough it was
proved that other persons had an undividedshare of the
cargo, yet it was held that the averment was supported.'
Lord Eldon, Ch. J. was of opinion that the plaintiff
had a sufficient interest throughout the entirety of the
cargo ; and Heath, J. said he did not se9 why a jointtenant, or tenant in common, has not such an interest in
the entirety as will enable him to insure.
A French author is referred to, but the book has not
been produced that we might see the contents, the limitation annexed to the'opinion, and its bearing upon
the present case. Perhaps it may be explained in I MVfarshall, 21-. At the time of Emraigon it was the custom
to execute blank policies. If the insured chose to insert
only the name of one of the persons interested, perhaps
it might be consid eied as* estopping him 'from saying
that others were concerned,
A policy is a contract of indemnity. It is not to enable the insured to make gain, but to avoid loss. One
partner is not only formally, but substantiallyowner of the
whole, especiallyas to strangers. Ifit be said thathe cannot
be damnified in the whole, we answer that one partner
has only a right to the balance of account. Suppose
Graves had advanced the whole outfit, the whole joint
effects are his security, and he will be entitled to hold
if Barnewall should become insolvent. A creditor partner has a specific lien on the whole. The loss of
Gravet, therefore, might extend to the whole amount
insured. I rez. 242, West v. Slip. 2 Ld. Rayrn. 871.
7achey v. Butler. Cowp. 449, Fox v. -anbury.
Suppose the interest of both to be i 0,O00.-The defendants say that Graves has only the benefit of his share,
say 95000. But Graves and Barnewall were to share
5000 are lost, so that in fact Graves would
in all cases.
be insured only $2500.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GRavES

"There is no .case where a joint partner has beenhell
to be insured for his share only.

&

BARNEWALL
V.

Tu1

BOST01C
M. I. CoMPANY.

How can the contract be limited to- half the amount
stipulated?

If it should be said that the other partner might have
insured elsewhere, the: answer is, that itwould only be
the common.case of a double insurance, and so a contribution.
But, 2dly, Graves might insure personally for his own
'share, and as agent -forBarneiwallas'to his share.
A general agent may insure without orders.

1 i ar.

shall, 218.

It is not necessary that it should appear on the face
of the policy that.the princi-al was interested ; but the
policy may be.in the name of the agent, and the .interest
of the principal may be averred and proved,;" even un-;
-der the statute-of 28 Geo. 3d.-

219.
Marshall,
_

One partner is a general agent for the whole. , Espe"cially in a court of equity, where one person may be considered as trustee for another, if the justice of the case
requires it.
2. There-is sufficient evidence to prbve that it was the
intent of both parties that the joint interest of Graves

and Barnewall should be insured, an& if the policy is
not so expre'ssed, it is a mistake, and ought to be so
construed.
, The form of the policy was framed in old times. It
is imperfect and incoherent. It is not a specialty, and
is always construed according to the intention of the
parties.
The joint property is proved, and therefore i is..na.

tural to suppose that it was intended by Graves as a join
insurance. The conduct of Graves and Barnewall also
proves such to be the intent on their part. There were
four othek policies, in all of which their joint interest is

FEBRUARY, 18o5.

429

insured. The letter of the 5th of May and the repre.
sentation annexed shew a plurality of owners.

GnAves &
BARNEWALL
V.

Tn BOSTON"

The words ",as interest may apbeak" were inserted
by desire of E. Sigourney, the agent of Graves. For
what reason ? It was not necessary for Graves to insert
them to oblige himself to prove his interest. They are
part of the usual clause which had been omitted in this
policy, and by which the benefit of the insurance is usually extended to all concerned.
The insertion of those words shews the 'intention of
Graves to insure for those in whom the interest should
appear to be.
This intent was known to the underwriters. The letter of the 5th of May was left a whole day in the office.
If they did know it they must either be presumed to
have assentect to that intention, or are chqrgeable with
frauid in not explaining themselves;
It was not important to them who were the owners.
It was sufficient to them to have a warranty that the
it belonged to one or
.Whether
property was neutral.
to twenty persons was -not of the least importance.
They were willing to ihsure 10,000 dollars upon that
risk, and all that they could require was, that property
to that amount. should be actually exposed to the risk.
There is a variance between the r'epresentation made
to the New-York offices., and that made .to ihe Boston
office. In the former the property is said to belong to
Graves and Barnewall-in the latter, to citizens of the
U. S If any argument should be attempted from this
circumstance, the answer is, that at New-York Graves
and-Barnewall were known to be citizens of the U. S.At Boston they were not. The risk or contract was
not in the least varied. • If the assured had intended to
impose names upon the underwriters, they would have
used that of Barnewall and not Graves,. The former
was well known in Boston as.a man of great respectability of character, and as .president of an insurance
company 'n New-York. The latter was scarcely known
at all, being a naturalized Dutch merchant.

M. I. CosPA.

.

430

SUPREME COURT U. S.

If then it was the intention of both partie to insure
EWALL- the joint interest of Graves and Barnewall; or, which
THz BOSTO amounts to the same thing, if such was the intent of one
GnAvrs &

EA

M.L ComA.- of the parties, and that.intent was known to the other
NY.
who did not object, nor explain himself, then it is but
the common case of a mistake in using inapt words to
express the meaning of the parties, which is one of the
most usual grojunds of equitable jurisdiction. 3 Ath.
388. .7oynes v. Statham. 2 Ath. 203 Langley. v.
'Brown. 2 Atk. 31. Simpson v. Vaughan. 1 Yezey,
456. Baker v. Paine.

1 Atk. 545. .Motteux v. London

Assurance Company.
It is objected that no application was made to rectify
this mistake until the loss had happened.. The answer
isthat Graves did not know of the mistake. The'pollcy
remained in the hands of Sigourney, who swears he did
not know it--and the loss happened before the premium
note becare due.
3. That if the intent of both parties cannot be said to
be sufficiently manifest, still there is fall proof of mistake on one side, and such conduct on the other, as will
shew that the defendants have acted malafide; and they
are chargeable on that ground.
To maintain this ground we rely on the following
facts which appear in-tc~ifince.
1. The knowledge the defendants had of the intention,
of Graves to insure the joint interest of Graves and
Barnewall.
The company's departing from the common form of
policies which cover the real interest of all concerned
without having intimated this circumstance to the plaintiff's agent ; and without giving any public notice; but
keeping it secret even from their own stockholders.
This notice of our intenitions, and of the mistake we
laboured under, and their silence-this deviation from
the accustomed forus of business, without notice or explanation, though they saw the complainants acting-under a delusion, .is such a notice of our understanding of

FEBRUARY, 1805-

431

the busiess,- -and such"a concealment of theirs, as will
amount tofraud in voint of law.

GRAVES &
BARNEW.LL
V.
THE BosT 'r

What ought to have bean their conduct, knowing. our M.I. CoxgA.
o
NY.
•They should have, said, you
intattiond a'ed their owv..
speak of'-ydaok copartnerh-name him.. You mean to
cover the whole. DiscloSe who are the owners. We
have departed from the accustomed form of policies, and
the Inwast of no'person will be covered whose name is
not inserted in the policy. But all was silence.
When an insuring company depart from the accustomed form, and the principles universally adopted in
this busiifess, they should give notice. Otherwise every
man has a right to deal with themon the presumption
that they do business in the same manner as others, and
tn the old and established forms. And when they see
that he is evidently acting upon this principle, it is due
to good faith to apprize him of his mistake. To withhold infdrmation, .to suiffer him to proceed in hls mistake :and pay his money under delusion, when a word"
would have saved him, has .every' ingredient of deceit.
It'is suppressio veri--it is by silence and concealment to
draw a nian to conclude an agreement contrary to his
intent,
'they who demand good faith should practise it. He
who exacts equity should do it; The underwriter demands and receives it at the peril of the premium. The
insured shall enforce it against him by obliging him,-'
execute the contract as he had a right to understand'A .
Each ought to know: all. 2 Strange 1183, Seaman v.
Fovereau. Park 200, 201. 2 tern. 554. Ibbottson v.
Rhodes. Park 208, 213. 1 East 335. lllaanss v. Henderson. ,8 Rurr. 1905.. Carter v. Boehm.
If an explanation had taken place it would have made
no alteration'of the risk or the prem-um ; for Barnewall
is aso an Ameri'can citizen. Iff
they I-d disclosed their

sectet regulations and intentions it wVould but have added
&name to the .p6licy.' Whbat thefi is it but treasuring
up an imimportant circimstance till the event happens,
taking the premium, and yet defeating the very contract
of 'which it was the price. I .Marshall216.

:432
GRAVES &
BARNEW.Cub
THz11OSTON

M. L

ComAp.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

It is therefore contended that if the intention of both
parties has not been fully proved, the defendants are
chargeable on the ground of fraud. This gives the
court full jurisdiction ;. and this court will enforce the
contract against them as it ought t; have been fulfilled.
It will consider Graves as acting for both, and the restriction as happening by mistake or fraud.
contraconsidered,
Harper
H
the plaintiffs rely.

1st. The law upon which

. 2d. The equity of the case.
1. As to the law. - it is resjudicata. This very case
has been detided at law.
MARSHALL, Ch. J. -The case at law was deciddd on a
"defect in the declaration.

Harper. That gives them no equity. They were
bound to- make out their case at law. They ought to
have nmade a good declaration.

-

W hy is this court applied to? ; To cure-some defect
or mistake in the policy. But forthis there was a remedy at law. A court of law will contrue the policy according to the intent.
If they are not estopped from proceeding at law by the
judgn ent at law, let them begin again. But if they are
barr . by the judgment at law, and this is a question to
which a cour ofla'is competent, they have no remedy
in equity.
But let us consider the law which has been urged. A
partner has a right to use the paitnership name for joint
purposes ; but he cannot bind the firm in his own nanw
He Cannot in his own name transfer the joint property.
His interest is different frdm his power. .Ifhe roake a
Yiill, nothing but his share of the joint property passes.
He maiy, n his own"name insure his individual share-of
the joint property. Perhaps his partners do not chuse
to insure their; interest. Shall he in- his owun name bind
them-to pay the premium? Individual partners often underwrite 4pon the risks of their'own house.

FEBRUARY, 18o5.
There is good reason why the names of all the owners GuAvis &
ought to be known to the underwriters. If a man has BARNPWXLL
been detected in a covered trade, the risk is greater than Tnt BoSToX
if he had always, been known to carry on a fair trade. M. I CompA.
P
One of the secret partners may perhaps be a subject of a
belligerent power.
This is not a case of general partnership. It is a particular adventure. It is not such a partnership as is mentioned in the books. One joint-tenant or tenant in common cannot dispose of the interest of the co-tenant.
There are joint tenants of ships as well as of land. In a
particular transaction of this kind one cannot sell the
whole ship. "Al agent he could not do it *withouta special power. One partner cannot as agent, -without a
special power, sign any paper to bind his copartner, nor
can he contract as agent. He can only use the name of
the firm.
The words "as interestshall appear," are said,to be
tantamount to the whole omitted clause.
But they only make the difference between an open,..
tad a valued policy.-The 'statute of 25 Geo. S. says
the names of all concerned shall be inserted in the policy,
and yet after that statute the words "as . interest shall appear" were still used.
2d. As to the equity of the case.
We admit that a policy is'a contract of indemnity, and
that what the parties meantat the time ought to be carried into effect; and that suppressioveri will avoid it. All
this results from the nature of contracts, which.requires
the asient of two minds..
We admit also thdit it may. have been the intent of
Graves to insure the joint interest of. Graves and Barnevall. *But was that intent kno, n to us ?-leic laborhoc opus.
It.is true they acted as joiifit owners to each other, and
to their agent; and in some cases they made insurances
jointly, but not in this case. ,

434
G

X*V
"&

BARwNEWALL

TiAi*
MJ.

SUPREME ciU1T'U. S.

Why is tiere -a-.variaiite between the reptesentation

mtde to the New-York oflces, ind that made tothe Bosarnezwalj omittedi i4~
h isteDa~eo
torr office ?,-

-o ., the latter'?

*Whyin the letter of the 5th'of May is ii not

skid who were meanthy the expressions "w"1' ") artnes"
~ "citizen of the United-States."
The letter of the Sthbf May is only an applicztion to
the premium, not a request to mae insurance It
,es.hismaxiium,
and therefore it is not pioballe that
T igqmrn' wou~ltmake it known. He'is .probably mishKs deposition. 1{q might, and probably did,give
taken ii.
.ayop
of the representation. 'ut the originalrepresentation is on the back of the same leaf 'oh which the lette
of the -5th of May was-Writtcm.
hnlw

-

Wb.letterof the 15th of May reqiests Sigourney'fo have

insunea

e o 21OO dolars,.*as znterest &hallappear.
This shews that he did not mean absolutely to insure and
pay the premium for 21,O dollars, but only s6 much
thereof as- his unico.ered intetest should amount to.
This explains als6 4ie ieing of he iyor&i "Irellieft,"
A&.to the alteration of the form. of the o.hcy -The
answer states~that they never.had ised'iny other. Sigournej ought to have read it before lhe greed to it. It
was his own folly that he did not. It was niot therL-foresuppressio veri.

Ingersoll on the same side.
If there was a mistake on the side'of the insured, yet
the written policy is.superior to- parol testimony. If
the knowledge of that intent cannot be brought hbme to
Ihe insurers,, the parol testimony is of no avail. Here
is a'written hstruahent nd-if it is not in itself doubtful,
you cannot, resort to parol testimony. You cannot resort to extraneous circumstances to create a'doubt,
when the instrument itself is clear and explicit. All persons have a'righC to make such contracts as they pliase ;
and they ;ilI
be bound by them, inless they are contrary
to law; or unless fraud can be shewn.

FEBRUARY, 18o5.
If doubld insiurance is made, the insured may.resort
to either policy. The forms of policies, as to the ne.
cessity of naming all the persons concerned, and as to
double insurance, are often varied.
Here Graves agrees that if double insurance should
have been made before,. he will resort to this policy for
so much only as shall remain uncovere'd by other poli.
cies ; and it is to be " as interest shaj appear." It
contains also several other special agree! ients.
From the time of the incorporation if the Boston
Marine Insurance Compdny, by the form 'of policies
which they adopted they declared to the world the
terms of their contract. " They. say, we will not insure
the interest of persons not named -;we will not contribute with prior "underwriteis on the saie risk ;--we
will be answerable only for so much as shall be uncovered by preceding policies.
By the terms of this policy the 'interest of Graves
only is insured: By accepting tie policy he agreed toit, ind is bound as if he had signed it..
The policy is also altered from the old'form in other
respects. It relinquishes the right of contribution in
case of subsequent double insurance. Graves would
have held them to this stipulation ; and -if they were
bound by the'alterations he must be bound by them too.
The number of this policy is 649% in so many in.
stances therefore they had declared-to the world their
terms of insurance.
If the policy does cover Rarnewall,the remedy of the
plaintiffs is at law. If it does not, then Bprnewalis
excluded, unless they can shew a different intent of the
parties.
1. On general principles does insurance by one part.
ner, in'his own name only, cover the joint interest of
both ?
2. If not, do the particular circumstances of this
case form an exception to the general rule
-

GnAv ri
BtaywaivL
V.

TEE BOsTOlt
M.

L

COMPA.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

& ' 1. One part owner cannot insure the share of the
WALL other part owner without special authority.. If not con-

GZAVES
1ARNE

.the

o eiou
peca
thoy
a
not on cerned ithe sa of the cargo, they are not joint part.
ner3, but joint owners. Burr. 2729. One joint partner can insure only his 'share. The others may
Schuse to insure eliewhere. The insurance company had
a rightto say they would not insure a person not named.

Taz BOSTON
M. L CompA.

NY.

If by law the insuran~q by one covers both, thefe is
.no remedy in equity.
21d The whole extent of 'Misha "Sigourney'spowers
by the letter of 5th of May. was to inquire the rate of
the premium. "He never made any application for insurance. The only application ror insurance was made by
Andrew Sigourney on the 14th of Jule, (not grounded
on the letter of the 5th of May) ind after insurance had
been made at other offices. The insurance was, made
on a copy of instructions for ifisurance at other offices,
which contali ed the name of nQ-person to be insured by
Graves. Tb s is, a sealed instrument, and yet. it is attempted to s~t it -aside on the ground of mistake,, in the
o-mission of a name, when the only name given by the
plaintiffs' agent was inseited. - It.appers by May,'s deposition that Andrew Sigourmzey read the policy delibexarely before he gave the premium note. "But'if.he did
not read it, it was his own neglect. He says he did
read the' written part.- B ut -the name of" Giaoes was
written, and he must have seen that his name alone wai
inserted.
-The case of Page'v. Try, 2 B.
P. 240, was a va.
lued policy, - It was therefore sufficient if any interest
appeared. The only object was -to shew it not to be a
wagering policy. The legal property was in the plain.
tiffs, and it a-ppeared that the house of Eachs had. only a
bbeneficial interest, so that the.averment in the declaration was not falsiljed -by the eyidence.

The only effect of the words € as interest may apper was to mak it an open policy. They do not re.
the perso ns concerned wi are not named. The
meaning i3 that the underwriters will insure the'whole
interest Vhich Graves-shall prove he had at ti.sk, provid-.
ed it did not exceed 1,opO"dollars,

FEBRUARY, 1805.

43Y

If they could be construed to mean thd interest of all Gnavzs &
persons concerned, whether named'or not, they would BA1IEWALL
open the door to all the frauds intended to be guarded Taz BosToO
against by the terins of the policy.
M. . COXPA.
NY.

The case cited from Park 3,. does not shew the power
of a court to modify a policy, hccording to the recollection of witnesses as to what passed six weeks before the
policy was agreed uion. •On the contrary, lord Hardwviche, in Parh, 2, says, that to shew that a policy, which
is a contract in writing, has been framed contrary to the
intent and real agreement, requires the "strongest
proof possible."
-Stocton, in reply..
We admit that if we have a: clear remedy at law,- we
have none in equity.' But this objection d6es 'not ap.
ply to our 2d point which considers Graves as a trustee
or agent for his partner.
Ifis said that in the case of joint tenants there is a
difference between their power and their interest. But
joint tenants are seized per mi et per tout. The interest
of each extends over the whole; and in chattels ihe
power is equally extensive.
A distinction is also taken between joint partners and
joint owners. But there is no difference. As far as the
partnership extends, it is governed by all the principles:
of a general partnership.
Each part owner is possessed per ni etper tout. Watson, 78.

The presumption, however, is that Graves and Barne'wallwere generaljoint partners. There is no evidence
to the contrary.
. It is in evidence that in many cases respecting this
ship and cargo, Graves acted for Barnerwall as well as
for himself, and that Barne-wall assented to such acts,
and never questioned the authority.

SUPREME COURT T.
GRAvzs &
BARNEWALL
•V.

S.

'It seems to be admitted ,hat it was the intention of
Graves to insure for his partner as. well -as fdr himself.

Tax BOSTO* And we say that the evidence is strong that his intention
M.L COMPA. was known to the underwriters.
"
The question of fraud dependis upon their knowledge
of our int6ntion, and not informing us of the alteration
in their policy.
.The general practice of that ojce, was* not in itself
notice and there is no evidence of actual notice.*
MARSHALL, Ch.

J. delivered the opinion of the court.

The points made by the plaintiffs i. this case, are,
fst. That the policy does really insure their joint property 6n board the ship Northern Liberties, so far as the
same was at the time uncovered by prior assuhinces.
2d. That if the property be not insured at law, yit it
was-intended'to be insured; and this couit will relieve against the mistake in the. agreement.
lst" That the poly does really insure the joint property of Graves and Barnewall.
The words are" the president and i"rectors of the Boston Marine Insurance Conilany, do "by these presents
c2atse 7ohn Boonen Gravesto be assured i0,000 dollars,'on
property on board the ship Northern Liberties, as propety
may appear."
These words, it is contended bry the counsel forthe plaintiffs, insure the joint property of Graves and Barnewall,
so as to cover the interest of each.
The oj~eration of the words'themselves taken in their ordinary sense, would certainly not extend beyond the interest held by Graves in the cargo. The words "as property
Thiscase was argued at February'term 1804, by StocdtcnandMartin, for theplantiffs in'error, and by HarperandKey, for the defendants ;
but as the arguments did not essentially vary from those urged at the present.term, it has been thought unnecessary to report them..

FEBRUARY, 1805.
may appear," seem to restrict the general terns of the poli- "GRAYE &
cy to the interest of the person named in it.

Admitting BA

Vo
ZWALL

this to be true, it is still contended that the interest of each Tn BosToN
partner, in the whole partnership-stock is an insurable M.I. Coxr.P'interest ; and as it was obviously the intention of Graves
to insure for his partner as well as for hims0lf, the policy
ought to receive a constrhaction which will effect this intent. The reasoning in support of the power of each partner to insure the joint property is certainly strong and
well founded. But the doubt in this case, is not whether
Graves could have insured the interest of his partner, but
whether he has insured it.
It is true that Barneaall need not have been named in
the policy; but the contract ought to have been so exjiessed (since it is an open policy,) as to shew. that the interest of some other person than Graves was secured, if such
was to be the effect of the instrument.
It is a good general principle that. written agreements
ought to be expounded by themselves. But if the same
words are to be considered as insuring the inteiest of Graves
only, or the interest ofGr~ves. and Barezewall, according.
to extrinsic circumstances, the certainty expe.dted from a
written agreeineht will be've'ry much impaired.
-

The interest of Barnewalltherefore cannot be considerone parted as insiired by th14'policy, under he power of
ndr to insure the shbare'of his co-partner. If it is insured, it must be'as the interest of Gkaves
Several cases have been 'stated in which- Graves might
suistain a loss by the loss of Barnerwall' part.of he cargo,
and therefore it has been contended that he may be indemnified against that risk' in a policy 'professing to 4ver only'
his own interest.
The case put, is that Graves might have paid for the
whole cargo, and have retained a lien upon it for his reimburs'ement. But in that case his interest would rot be the
result of his character' as a partner, but would be in the
nature of a mortgage. The question would not'be generally whether the interest'of a copartner may be said to
comprehend all the partnership effects, but whethe; a mortgagee, or other person having aElkn upoih proper yn may be
said to have an interest in the whole of it. As a.'claim so

"

440
GRAvas

BTHE

&
AL

BOSTON

M. I. C.M-aiNY.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

found&:, would rest, not on the geneinl principles of partnerl--p, but on the particular circumstances of
the case,
those circumstances ouglit to be made out, in order to entitle the.plaintiffs to avail themselves of the argument. Not
being made out they do not belong to the case.
* If a su;t at law had been brought on this policy, it would
only have been brought in the name of Graves, and he must
have averred property on board the vessel. He could only have been entitled to recov r to - the ambunt of property uninsured. Would it l~ve been sufficient under
such an averment to have shewn that the interest of his
partners and himself amounted to the sum he claimed, or
if he had averred property in himself and another to the
amount of 10,000 dollars, would such *anaverment have
entitled him to ajudgment for the whole sum. In ordinary
transactions the plaintiff would certainly fail in an attempt
founded on similar principles.

A policy though construed liberally- is. still a special
contract, and under no rule for'proceedings on A special
contract, could the interest of a copartnership be given, in
evidence on an 'averment of indiVidual interest, or an
averment of the interest of a company be supported by a
special contract relating in its terms to the interest of an
individual.
But it is contended that an insurable interest is distinct
from interest in the ordinary. acceptation of the word;
and several cases have been cited in support of this doctrine.' Those cases generally appear to be answered by a
distinction taken by the defendants' counsel between the
interest and the power of a copartner. But the case of
Page v. Fry reported in 2. Bosanquet and Pul. 24(.
certaiily countenances the doctrine maintained by th
B
plaintiffs, and ought to be particularly considered.
before that case is adverted to, it may be proper to mer
tion what appeared to be the opinion of Judge Buller i
the case of Perchardv. WTVitmore, reported in the same
book in page 1.55. . In that case it appears to. have been
considered as a clear principle that if in an action on a
policy, arid on an averment of interest in the plaintiffs,
it should a ppear that the plaintiffs and another were interested, the action would not be maintainable. That
opinion would apply to the case at bar; but as the ques-

FEBRUARY, 1805.

441

tion was not directly decided, and was the opinion of a GRAVYS &
single judge, it may be supposed to yield to the case of BARNEwALT.
Pag-e & Fry, where it is said, that question came direct- TH BosTox
ly before the court.
M. I. COMPA.
The. case of Page & Fry, was an actioni brought by
an Rgent on a policy signed by himself, and in the declaration he averred an interest in the whole cargo insured
in Messrs. Hyde and Hobbs. It appeared in evidence,
that after the purchase of the cargo, and before the irisurance was made, a .house by the name of Hacks had taken
an interest in it, and for this variance between the.averment and the proof the defendants moved for a nonsuit.
It is worthy of remark that no doubt was entertained of
the right of the plaintiffs to recover the whole sum had
the declaration stated the truth of the case. And that the
counsel in support of the action did not allege that the interest of Hacks -wasinsured as the interest of Hyde and
Hobbs, or that on an averment ofi particular interest ajoint
interest might be given in evidence; but, that the averment was immaterial under the acts of parliament, and
being alleged under a scilicet would not vitiate. The
invoices having been made out in the name of .-5yde and
Hobbs, who paid for the cargo, he also contended that the
primafacieTight was in them, and that Hacks had only an
equitable interes.t,
The argument goes upon the admission that the variance under the circumstances which attend the-case at
bar woula be fatal.
The "same remark applies to the argument in support of
the nonsuit.
-T-is 'deserves consideration, since it certainly warrants
an opinion-that previous to that case the law was generally
understood to require that the averment of interest in an
action on a policy should be supported by testimony corresponding with that interest according to the general acceptaion of the term..
Lord Eldon certainly states his opinion in favor of the
action to be founded oh. the interest of the plaintiffs in
th4 ent;rety of the qargo. But in examining that opinioA

442
GRavEs &
BAR-SEWALL

SUPREME COURT U. S.

it does not appear to be supported by the authorities he

cites, and the words he uses in the conclusion 'would seem
THz BosTok to im ply that, contry to his reasoning, he paid some re.M.I. ComPA. spect to the circumstances under which Hacks had become
NY.
concer ned. "I think," says his lordsbip,- "the plaintiff
S"had
a sufficient interest in the entirety of this cargo, not"withstanding other perions had a beneficialinterest in a
"cpart." The word "beneficial" seems to imply something distinct from a legal interest, and to correspond with
the terms equitable interest, which had been used by the
plaintiffs' "counsel. The opinions of justices Heath and
Chambre seem to be founded on t.his being a valued policy,
and on the' plaintiff's haviig, such an interest as would
entitle him to insure under the act of parlinment, and that
the substance of the averment was nothing more than that
the plaintiffs' bad an interest in the cargo which would
satisfy'the act. The opinion of judge Rooke is accompanied with no explanation whatever.
V.

This case, even was the decision'an authority, is"
too
imperfectly reported to be permittedto 9verthrow a systenM
which was previously established.
It is the opinion of the court that on the legal construcion of this policy .7ohn Bo'onen Graves is insured to the
extent of his own interest in the cargo, but that the interest of his copartner is not insured.
Were it otherwise, the remedy would be, complete at.
law, and of consequence the plaintiffs 'could not maintain
their bill in a court of.equity.
2dly. It 'emains to inquire whetherunder the circtitstances of the case, a court of equity will -relieve the p laitiffs, against the mistake .alleged to exist in the'contract,
and extend. the insurance to the whole partnership luterest.
Tbat"teaves intended.to insure the-whole is.proved, in
a manner wYhich is perfectly -satisfactoiry.
That the company believd themselves to
isuring
thepioperty of Graves only is probable. Certainly such
is the evidence in the-ause.. .-There is rio grbtind for imjuiti to the company a kiaowtedge that the licy did not
taoipond 'withththeitentiors of the insured.

FEBRUARY, 1805.

443

If then the relief which they ask should be grantedto the CRAYVS &
plaintiffs, it nfist be on the principle that the information BARwENVALL
V.
laI.: be.tore the insurance company was sufficient to apprise Tn BosToN
tb em of the fact, and to require that, on the principles of M.1. CoMP,&Nygood faith, fhey should suggest to th agent of the plaintiffs
thd departure of their policy from the ancient form.
This information is in writing and is contairied in
the letter of the 5th of May, and in the representation
of the risk which accomphnied it.
The letter must be considered as having been seen by
the officers of the company; but as it was shewn not
for the purpose of commencing a contract but of inquiring into the terms on which a contract might probabty be made, it is reasonable to suppose that the nature
of the risk was the only subject of consideration, and
that the question wh.ther the property belonged to one
or more persons never, occurred. A month elapsed be.
fore a second application wvas made, and as the description of the risk was -again laid before the president, it
could not be required irom him to retain in his minid a
circumstance casually 'suggested in a letter seen so long
before, to which circumstance there was nothing todirect his particular attention.
It is then on the representation of the risk and on the.
verbal communications of And ew Sigourney, that the
case must depend.
The representation contains an averment that "the
ship and cargo really and truly belong to citizens of
"the United States." But as only a small part bf the.
cargo was insured by the -Boston'company, this averment'contains no information that afiy other than Whrn
interested in the pbaticular policy
Boonen Graves wasinto.
then to be entered
In the letter there is another expression which has
been much relied on. It is "on this vessel's cargo we
"Want insurance." • This expression has been considered as sufficiently indicating that the application was
made in behalf of more than one persbn; and .this expressiop has produced the principal difficulty of the case.;

SUPREME COURT U.

.

GpAvEs & but on reflection it has been thought too ambiguous to
authorise a change in the legalimport of a written contract,
THz BsOri
BARNFVWALL
V.

M. L CoM A21Y"

The description obviously relates to the'whole cargo;
but the application for insurance was only for a part of
it. If that application was madein the name of Graves
only, it was no unreasonable supposition that the other
parties concerned might be separately insured, and that
the. policy then required was designed to cover Graves"
only. - That the ipplication was so made must be inferred from the circumstance that the policy-whs so framed
at a time when there coild be no motive for varying it
from the insurance applied for; and that ,Sigourneydoes
not allege himself to have made any communications
to the president indic~tipg a wish to insure others .than
Graves.
These grounds are-too equivocal to warrant the court
in varying a written contract in a case attended with the
circumstances which appear in the present,
The policy was in the possession of the agent for the
plaintiffs, and ought to pave been understood by him
before it was ekecuted; he retained it inhis possession
for several months before a mistake was alleged. Under such circumstances the information given to the insurance company ought to be very clear to justify a court
of equity in conforming the policy to the intention of
one of the parties, which Was not communicated to the
other till the losA had happeped,
Under the circumstances of te •case a churt of equity cannot relieve against the mistake which has been
committed; and as the remedy of the plaintiff, Groves,
on the policy t6 the extent of his interest is complete at
law,' the decree of..the circuit roupt dismissing his bill
must be affirmed.
.udgment affirmed.

