PARGOUD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and that the person so pardoned is entitled to the restoration
of the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, if suit
be brought within "two years after the suppression of the
rebellion."
The proclamation of the 25th of December
granted pardon unconditionally and without reservation.
This was a public act of which all courts of the United
States are bound to take notice, and to which all courts are
bound to give effect. The claim of the petitioner was preferred within two years. The Court of Claims, therefore,
erred in not giving the petitioner the benefit of the proclamation.
Its judgment must be REVERSED, with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.
[See the next case.]

PARGOUD V. UNITED STATES.
The President's proclamation of December 25th, 1868, granting pardon and
amnesty unconditionally and without reservation to all who participated, directly or indirectly, in the late rebellion, relieves claimants of
captured and abandoned property from proof of adhesion to the United

States during the late civil war.

It is unnecessary, therefore, in a claim

in the Court of Claims, under that act, to prove such adhesion or per-

sonal pardon for taking part in the rebellion against the United States.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Pargoud filed a claim in the court below to recover under
the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, the proceeds of
certain cotton. This act, as by reference to its provisions, on
page 151, supra,will be seen, makes "proof that the claimant
had never given aid or comfort to the late rebellion" a prerequisite to recovery. Pargoud's petition, however, averred
no loyalty at all. On the contrary, it set forth in the first
sentence of it "that he was guilty of participating in the rebellion against the United States," adding, however, "that
he had been duly and legally pardoned for such participa-

Dec. 1871.]

PARGOUD V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

tion by the President of the United States, and that he had
received a pardon under the great seal dated on the 11th day
of January, 1866, which had been duly accepted by him,
and that his acceptance, duly notified to the Secretary of
State, was now on file in the office of that department; and
that he had complied with all the legal formalities in such
case made and provided, and under the proclamations of
amnesty and pardon issued by the President of the United
States, now stands and is entitled to be considered in law as
if he never had, in point of fact, participated in the late rebellion against the United States, and consequently he now
avers that in legal intendment and under the allegations
already made, he has at all times borne true allegiance to the
government of the United States, and that he has not in
any way aided, abetted, or given encouragement to the rebellion against the United States."
The Court of Claims decided against the claimant on the
ground that the petition did not aver that he had given no
aid or comfort to the rebellion, nor sufficiently aver a pardon
by the President.
Pargoud now brought the case here, where, on a motion
made by the Attorney- General,Mr. Akerman, and supported by
Mr. Bristow, the Solicitor-General, to dismiss it for want of
jurisdiction-they relying on the proviso to act of July 12th,
1870 (sometimes called the "Drake Amendment"), quoted
supra, 133, in Klein v. United States (the said amendment not
having been then as yet declared, by the judgment in that
case, to be void), to show that the pardon ought not to be
regarded-and Mr. P. Phillips opposing the motion-the whole
matter was elaborately and ably argued.
The CHIEF JUSTICE nowgave the judgmentof thecourt.
We have recently decided, in the case of Armstrong v.
United States,* that the President's proclamation of December 25th, 1868, granting pardon and amnesty unconditionally and without reservation to all who participated, directly
* Supra, the case immediately preceding.

158

SEMMEs v. HARTFORD INSURANCE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

or indirectly, in the late rebellion, relieves claimants of captured and abandoned property from proof of adhesion to
the United States during the late civil war. It was unnecessary, therefore, to prove such adhesion or personal pardon
for taking part in the rebellion against the -hi-ited States.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition is
REVERSED.

SEMhIES V. HARTFORD INSURANCE COMPANY.
1. A condition in a contract of insurance that no suit or action shall be sustainable unless commenced within the time of twvelve months next afterthe loss shall occur, and in case such action shall be commenced after th(
expiration of twelve months next after such loss, that the lapse of time
shall be taken and deemed as conclusive evidence against the validity
of the claim, does not operate in case of a war between the countries of
the contracting parties, as does a statute of limitations in like case.
And under such a contract the term of twelve months, which it allowed
the plaintiff for bringing his suit, does not, as it does in the case of a
statute of limitation, open and expand itself so as to receive within it
the term of legal disability created by the war and then close together
at each end of that period so as to complete itself, as tnough the war
had never occurred.
2. However, in the case of such a contract followed by a war, the disability to sue imposed on a plaintiff by the war relieves him from the
consequences of failing to bring suit within twelve months after the
loss.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut.
Semmes sued the City Fire Insurance Company, of Hartford, in the court below, on the 31st of October, 1866, upon
a policy of insurance, for a loss which occurred on the 5th
day of January, 1860. The policy as declared on showed as
a condition of the contract, that payment of losses should be
made in sixty days after the loss should have been ascertained and proved.
The company pleaded that by the policy itself it was expressly provided that no suit for the recovery of any claim

