Dec.

1871.]

RAILiROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

517

Statement of the case.

The law of California, while it required the sheriff to offer
the smallest portion of the land which any one would take
and pay the judgment and costs, undoubtedly contemplated
that if no one would take any less than the whole of the
land and pay the judgment and costs, that then it should be
sold to the highest bidder. If this were not so, the State
could not collect the taxes in half the cases, because the
right of redemption left no inducement to bidders for a
smaller amount than the whole.
It is, therefore, a fair presumption from the recital in the
deed, that although the sheriff sold the land to the highest
bidder, it was because no one would take less than the whole
and pay the taxes and costs. And the recital that is made,
as well as that which is omitted, are neither of them necessary to the validity of a deed made in a judicial sale.

RAIL-ROAD C0OAPANY V. SOUTTER ET AL.
A railroad belonging to an incorporated company, and then under a first
and second mortgage, was sold on execution and bought in by certain
bondholders, whom the second or junior mortgage was given to secure.
These purchasers organized themselves (as they were allowed to do by
statute in the State where the road was) into a new corporation, and
worked theroad themselves, and for their own profit. After a certain
time, the mortgagees under the first or senior mortgage pressed their
debt to a decree of foreclosure; and to prevent a sale of the road the
new corporation paid the mortgage debt. Subsequently to this, and on
a creditors' bill, the sale made to the creditors under the second mortgage was set aside as fraudulent and void as against other creditors of
the corporation which owned the road originally. Held, that no bill in
equity would lie by the new corporation against the mortgagees under
the first mortgage, to be paid back (as paid under a mistake of fact),
what had been thus paid to them by the new corporation, or to be subrogated to their decree of foreclosure.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Wis-

consin.
The Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company filed a
bill in equity, in June, 1859, against Soutter (suivivor of

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Bronson), Russell Sage, and several other natural or individual persons, as also against the Milwaukee and St. Paul
Railway Company, a corporation, to recover back certain
large sums of money, amounting in all to $462,057-80, which
they had paid into court, in December, 1865, in part liquidation of certain bonds held by the individual defendants,
in this suit, which bonds had been issued by the La Crosse
and Milwaukee Railroad Company in 1857, and were secured by a mortgage upon a portion of the railroad of the
last named company. By way of alternative relief, the complainants prayed that they might be subrogated to the benefit
of the decree of foreclosure of the mortgage, under which
they had paid the money in question. The Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railway Company were made defendants because
they were the parties now in possession of the railroad and
other mortgaged premises, and asserted themselves to be the
owners thereof.
The facts, on which the complainants rested their claim,
as set forth in their bill, were substantially as follows:
The La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, in
1858, after giving the bonds and mortgage above mentioned,
gave two other mortgages, one on their road and one on
their land grants, to secure certain other bonds issued by
them. Failing to pay the interest coupons on the latter bonds,
William Barnes, the trustee named in the mortgages, in
May, 1859, sold the mortgaged premises, and all the franchises of the company, at public auction, and became the
purchaser thereof, in trust for the bondholders, under the
laws of Wisconsin, for the sum of $1,593,333. The bondholders thereupon, in May, 1859, organized a new company by
the name of the Milwaukee and Minnesota -RailroadCompany (the
corporationvow complainant in the case), and Barnes conveyed
the property to the said oomnpany; which thereafter conducted
its business under and in pursuance of the charter of the La
Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company, and immediately
entered into possession of the said property and franchises.
But the prior mortgage of 1857 still subsisted on a portion of the road. Of this mortgage Bronson and Soutter

Dec. 1871.]

RAILROAD

COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

519

Statement of the case.

were the trustees, and they filed another bill to foreclose
their mortgage, and, after protracted litigation (of which the
part in this court is reported in Bronson v. La Orosse Railroad
Gomparny) obtained a final decree in 1865,* for the amount of
interest coupons due on the bonds secured thereby, amounting to upwards of $450,000; which decree contained a proviso, that if the Milwaukee and Minnesota Railroad Company
(the now complainants) should pay the amount of the decree
before a sale of the mortgaged premises, the receiver (the
road being then in the hands of a receiver) should deliver
the property to them; that is to say, they had the usual
privilege of redeeming the property by paying the decree.
Thereupon, the complainants, on the 30th of December,
1865, paid into court the amount of $462,057.80, as above
stated, the money being afterwards distributed to the holders
of the various bonds secured by the Bronson and Soutter
mortgage, who are the individual defendants in this suit.
The .money thus paid was paid by the complainants as purchasers, and claiming to be owners, of the property, upon
an acknowledged incumbrance, and in relief of the property
claimed.
Prior to this payment, however,.certain judgment creditors
of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company filed in
the United States District Court for Wisconsin a creditor'sbill
against the-present complainants, alleging that the sale by
Barnes was fraudulent and void, and praying that it might
be set aside as stich, and that the complainants might be
enjoined from any further interfe:ence with the property or
franchises of the La Crosse and Milwaukee Railroad Company. This suit bad been pending for some considerable
period, and was pending here on appeal-the case of James
v. Bailroad Companyt-when the complainants paid their
money into court, as before stated, and, some time after its.
payment and distribution, a decree was made on said creditor's bill, in accordance with the prayer thereof, and directing that the property should be resold, and the proceeds.
* 2 Wallace, 283.

t" 6 -Wallace,752.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

applied, after payment'of prior liens, to the satisfaction of the
judgments on which the creditor's bill was founded.
The complainants accordingly now asked to have their
money returned to them, on the ground that they paid it
under a mistake. Their allegation was that they supposed
they owned the property when they did not; that they supposed they were lifting an incumbrance off of their own
property, when they were, in fact, lifting it off of property
decided to belong to other parties. Their bill, speaking of
the order allowing them to pay the amount of the decree,
represented that the "said order was made by this court
upon the understanding and theory entertained and believed
by the judges of said court, and by your orator, and by all
persons and parties interested in said cause, that your orator
was the owner of said equity of redemption." And again,
that "your orator paid said sum of money into this court,
this court distributed the same, and the several persons hereinbefore named in that behalf received the same with, upon,
and under, and only with, upon, and under, the belief, understanding, and theory, that your orator was the owner of
the equity of redemption of the mortgaged premises and
property in said cause, and that your orator was thereby
paying and extinguishing a lien, charge, and incumbrance
upon property owned by your orator as aforesaid." It
further stated that " after paying the money, your orator for
the first time discovered that the said foreclosure of the
Barnes mortgage was fraudulent and void as to the creditors
of the La Orosse and Milwaukee Rairoad Company, and as
against the said last-named company, and that, in fact and in
law, your orator never was the owner of the said equity of
redemption, and that the payment made by your orator into
court, and the distribution of the said moneys and the receipt thereof by the said defendants was made, had, and
received in mistake of fact as aforesaid."
The bill further stated that Russell Sage, one of the defendants, who received a large portion of the money paid
into court, was also a large holder of bonds under the Barnes
mortgages, and had advised and encouraged the sale by

Dec. 1871.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

521

Argument in favor of the recovery.

Barnes, and participated in the organization of the complainants' company; and alleged further that the board of
directors of the corporation complainant became totally
changed, and was, at the time of such payment, wholly composed of persons who had not participated personally in the
foreclosure of the Barnes mortgage; and that a large majority of the stockholders and directors at the time of the
said payment were persons who had no interest at the time
of the foreclosure, and no participation in the proceedings.
The defendants demurred to this bill, and on the hearing
of the same the demurrer was sustained, and the bill dismissed. From the decree dismissing the complainants' bill,
this appeal was taken.
M41essrs. G. B. Smith and X. ..Carpenter,forthe appellant:
WhetbeP money paid under a mistake of law can or cannot be recovered back, it is certain that money paid under a
mistake offact, may be so recovered, and by suit in equity.*
Mistake is one of the original heads of chanceryjurisdiction; it is- one of the great trinity of subjects from which
all equity jurisdiction flows. Nqo chancellor would be anything without fraud, accident, and mistake.
This money was paid under a mistake of fact. In almost
every instance of the payment of money the ultimate determination rests upon some legal conclusion of the parties'
right to, or interest in the subject-matter to be affected by
such payment. The conclusion must rest upon facts to
which it is attemptedto apply the legal principle. And the
rule is that if any one of a supposed complicated state of
facts is unfounded, and that supposed fact induced, or tended
to induce, the payment of the money, the party paying is
entitled to relief. A man's title to property is always a
question of law, after facts are ascertained. But if a man
acts upon the belief that he is the owner of property and
that belief is based upon a supposed state of facts, which if
well founded, would in law make him the owner, and such
* 'Wilkins v. Woodfin, 5 Munford, 183.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V.

SOUTTER.

(Sup. Or.

Argument in favor of the recovery.

supposed facts are misapprehended, the erroneous conclusion of ownership is a mistake of fact, not of law.
In this case the Minnesota company paid this money into
court upon the supposition that it was the owner of the
equity of redemption; that supposition being a legal conclusion based upon certain supposed facts, one being that
the Barnes mortgage was a valid incumbrance. But unfortunately for the company the supposed state of facts did not
exist. The mistake, therefore, under which the company
acted in paying the money was a mistake in regard to the
existence of certain facts; or in other words the company
paid the money under a mistake of fact.
This view of the subject is established by the single consideration that this court, which cannot make any mistake of
law, expressly declared in its opinion in Bronson v. La Crosse
Railroad Company,* that the foreclosure of the Barnes mortgage had vested the equity of redemption in the Minnesota
company. This tribunal knew all law when it made this
decision just as well as it did when in the subsequent case
of James v. -Railroad Conpany,t it decided that the Minnesota company had no interest whatever in the premises.
The different conclusions reached by that court, first, that
the company did own the property, and second, that it did
not, were both sound in law as applied to the cases made by
the respective suits.
The difference between the two, in other words, is a difference of fact, not of law. In the first suit, it appeared to
the court that the case before mentioned did exist, and therefore the law said: "The Minnesota company is the owner
of the equity of redemption." In the second case, the case
was shown not to exist, and the law said, "The Minnesota
company is not the owner of the equity of redemption." It
was the mistake in regard to the facts that induced the court
to say, and induced the company to beliere, that the company
was such owner. And the mistake of the company was the
same as that made by the court; and as the court cannot
make a mistake of law, it follows that the company did not.
*2 Wallace, 304.

f 6 Id. 752.

Dec. 1871.]

lRAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.
Opinion of the court.

The true distinction between a mistake of law and a mistake of fact is well stated by the court in ilurd v..Ha14* and
there can be no doubt that the money in this instance was
paid under a mistake of fact.
An action for money had and received, is maintainable
wherever the money of one man has, without consideration,
gone into the pockets of another. t
_7ir. J. W. Cary, contra, contended that on the face of the
bill no case was made, and that judgment was rightly given
on the demurrer for the defendants.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The bare statement of the claim, even presenting it in the
language of the bill itself, seems to us sufficient to condemn
it. Who are the complainants? Are they not the very
bondholders, self-incorporated into a body politic, who,
through their trustee and agent, effected the sale which was
declared fraudulent and void, as against creditors, and made
the purchase which has been set aside for that cause? Was
it ever known that a fraudulent purchaser of property, when
deprived of its possession, could recover for his repairs or
improvements, or for incumbrances lifted by him whilst in
possession? If such a case can be found in the books, we
have not been referred to it. Whatever a man does to benefit an estate, under such circumstances, he does in his own
wrong. le cannot get relief by coming into a court of
equity. By the civil law, the possessdr, even in bad faith,
may have the value of his improvements, if the real owner
choose to take them. The latter has an option to take them
or to require their removal. But this rule has never obtained
in the common law, nor in the system of English equity.
One of the maxims of the latter system is, " H e that hath
* 12 Wisconsin, 124.
t Hludson v. Robinson, 4 Mraule & Selwyn, 478; Kelly v. Solari, 9 Meeson
& Welsby, 54; Chatfield v. Paxton, note, 2 East, 471; Mlilnes v. Duncan, 6
Barnewall & Cresswell. 671; Townsend v. Crowdy, 8 C. B. (New S.) 477.

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

SOUTTER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

committed iniquity shall not have equity." And various
illustrations of it are furnished by the books.*
But the complainants are wrong in asserting that the property was not theirs. It was theirs. Their purchase was declared void only as against the creditors of the La Crosse
and Milwaukee Railroad Company. In other words, it was
only voidable, not absolutely void. By satisfying these creditors they could have kept the property, and their title would
have been good, as against all the world. The property was
theirs; but, by reason of the fraudulent sale, was subject to
the incumbrance of the debts of the La Crosse company.
This was the legal effect of the decree declaring their title
void. Therefore, they were, in fact, paying off an incumbrance on their own property when they paid into court the
money which they are now seeking to recover back.
They are wrong also in asserting that they made the payment under a mistake of fact. If it was made under any
mistake at all, it was clearly a mistake of law. They mistook the legal effect of transactions of which they were
chargeable with notice. They were the persons fbr whose
benefit the purchase was made, which was declared to be
fraudulent. They were the principal defendants in the
creditors' bill, upon which this decree was rendered. All
the evidence in that suit had been taken when they made
the payment in question. The cause was pending, on appeal, in this court. There was not a fact, therefore, of which
they were ignorant. They had full and actual notice of all
the transactions, and all the evidence on which the decree
was ultimately founded.
All this appears front the statements of the bill in this
case. We do not see how such a bill can possibly be sustained. The pleader who drew it evidently felt the force of
these objections, and interjected some special circumstances
for the purpose of showing that the case is distinguishable
from the class of cases referred to. It is stated that Russell
Sage, one of the defendants, who received a large portion
* See Francis's Maxims, Maxim VII.

Dec.

1871.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. SOUTTER.

525

Opinion of the court.

of the money paid into court, was also a large holder of
bonds under the Barnes mortgages, and advised and encouraged the sale by Barnes, and participated in the organization of the complainants' company. All these facts may
be true, and on the demurrer to the bill must be taken as
true; but they do not show, nor is it alleged, that Sage was
personally a participant in the fraud which was committed
in the sale under the Barnes mortgage. And if it were so
alleged, can one fraud-doer obtain relief in equity against
his parlieeps crininis?
Again, it is alleged that the board of directors of the complainant was totally changed, and was, at the time of such
,payment, wholly composed of persons who had not participated personally in the foreclosure of the Barnes mortgage;
and that a large majority of the stockholders and directors
at the time of the said payment were persons who had no
interest at the time of the foreclosure, and no participation
in the proceedings. This cannot alter the case. A corporation aggregate retains its identity through all the changes
that may take place in its individual membership. This
corporation, by its own statement, was adjudged to be the
child of a fraudulent and corrupt transaction, and entered
upon its career as purchaser of the property, with all the
risks of its illicit origin and fraudulent purchase upon its
head. Change of membership cannot change its rights. If
it can, when is the change effected? How many, or what
proportion, of the members must be changed?
It is needless to pursue the subject further. If the present individual stockholders of the complainants have been
wronged that wrong cannot be redressed in this proceeding
without violating the clearest principles of equity jurisprudence. The bondholders who received the money that was
paid into court were entitled to that money. It was due
them. Had not the complainants interposed they could
have sold the property and realized their claim from the
proceeds. How can they be called to account? The present
owners of the road have purchased it (it is to be presumed)
under the proceedings had in favor of the judgment credit-

COMMONWEALTH v. BOUTWELL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ors. How can their title be disturbed by the complainants?
What equity would there be in subjecting the property in
their hands to an incumbrance from which it was free when
their purchase was made?
The decree must be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I differ from Brother Bradley in the construction of the
bill in this case, and, therefore, differ from him in the conclusions to be drawn from the facts which it discloses. To
my mind it presents a clear case, where money, amounting
to over four hundred and sixty thousand dollars, was paid
under a mistake of fact, into which the complainant was led
by the decision of this court. And it would be, in my j udgment, only administering simple justice to the company to
compel the defendants to make restitution, or to give to the
company the benefit of the decree in the foreclosure suit,
upon which the money was paid. I, therefore, dissent from
the judgment rendered.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and Mr. Justice MILLER also
dissented.

COMMONWEALTH

v.

BOUTWELL.

Mandamus to the Secretary of the Treasury to compel him to deliver a
warrant under the act of July 27th, 1861, directing him to refund to
the governor of any State the expenses properly incurred in raising
troops to aid in suppressing the rebellion, refused; the Secretary not
having been asked to pay the money until the time limited in the
appropriation act for the appropriation to take effect had expired; the
right of the court to issue such order under other circumstances not
being meant to be passed upon.

THIs was a petition by the State of Kentucky, through
its constituted authority, asking this court, in the exercise
of its original jurisdiction, for a writ of mandamus to com-

