REICHE v.

SMYTHE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tract, he must still bring his suit within the reasonable time
fixed by the legislative authority, that is, by the statute of
limitations.
We have no doubt that the disability to sue imposed on
the plaintiff by the war relieves him from the consequences
of failing to bring suit within twelve months after the loss,
because it rendered a compliance with that condition impossible and removes the presumption which that contract
says shall be conclusive against the validity of the plaintiff's
claim. That part of the contract, therefore, presents no bar
to the plaintiff's right to recover.
As the Circuit Court founded its judgment on the proposition that it did, that judgment must be
R EVERSED AND THE CASE REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

IREICHE V. SMYTHE, COLLECTOR.
Where an act of 1861 exempted from duty "animals of all kinds; birds,
singing and other, and land and water fowls," and a later act levied a
duty of 20 per cent. "on all horses, mules, cattle, sheep, hogs, and other
live animals," held that birds were not included in the terms " other
live animals." The second statute must be read by the light of the
first.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The 23d section of the act of March 2d, 1861, chap. 68,*
provides, that
"The importation of the articles hereinafter mentioned and
embraced in this section shall be exempt from duty:
" ' Animals, living, of all kinds; birds, singing and other, and land and
water fowls.' "

This provision being in force, an act of May 16th, 1866,t
was passed, which provided" That on and after the passage of this act there shall be
* 12 Star. at :Large, 198.

• -t 14 Ib. 48.

Dec. 1871.]

RExcHE v. SmyTHE.
Argument in support of the
ruling.

levied, collected, and paid, on all horses, mules, cattle, sheep, hogs,
and other live animals imported from foreign countries, a duty
of 20 per centum ad valorem."
In this state of legislation, and after the passage of the
second of the above-mentioned acts, one Reiche imported
into New York a lot of canary and other birds, on which
the collector exacted a duty of 20 per centum ad valorem,
which was paid under protest. Reiche brought this suit in
the court below to recover the money. The only inquiry
was whether living birds at the date of this importation
were dutiable.
The court below decided that they were, and judgment
bein g given accordingly the importer brought the case here.
Mr. B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. . HJill,
Assistant Attorney- General,for the United States, and in support
of the ruling below:
It may be urged on the other side thatr inasmuch as Congress, in the act of 1861, named "animals, living, of all
kinds," and in the same section also mentioned "birds,
singing and other," &c., the intention was to recognize a
restricted meaning of the word "animals," as not including
"birds," and to introduce and sanction such restricted
meaning as a definition of the terms "living animals" and
"live animals" when used in the revenue laws; so that
when, in the act of 1866, a duty was imposed upon all live
animals, without mentioning birds, the legislature must be
understood to have intended that the latter should not be
included, but should remain exempt.
The answer is, that the various duty acts are too full of
examples of tautology and repetition to warrant such dconclusion; that they often show needless particularity in enumeration, accompanied by general terms plainly including
the same things also mentioned in detail. Thus, in section
22 of the act of 1861, a duty is imposed upou "articles worn
by men, women, or children, of whatever material composed," &c.; and yet, notwithstanding these comprehensive
terms, there follow, in the same section, numerous partieu-

REIcRE V.

SMYTHE.[

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lars already clearly embraced in those.terms, as "bracelets,
braids, chains, curls, ringlets, braces, suspenders, caps, hats,"
&c. Like repetitions are found in the 13th section of the
act of July 14th, 1862,* and in schedule 0, in the act of July
30th, 1846.t
The phrase, all " other live animals," as employed in the
act of 1866, is clear, comprehensive, and explicit. The addition of the designation of birds, in a single instance, in
a former act, is a casual circumstance of too slight significance to warrant a practical interpolation, in the later special
statute, of an exception to its plain import.
1Hr. Frederick Chase, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The act of 1866 in its terms is comprehensive enough to
include birds, and all other living things endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and if there had
not been previous legislation on the subject there might be
some justification for the position, that Congress did not
intend to narrow the meaning of the language employed.
If it be true that it is the duty of the court to ascertain the
meaning of the legislature from the words used in the statute and the subject-matter to which it relates, there is an
equal duty to restrict the meaning of general words, whenever it is found necessary to do so, in order to carry out the
legislative intention.t And it is fair to presume in case a
special meaning were attached to certain words in a prior
tariff act, that Congress intended they should have the same
signification when used in a subsequent act in relation to
the same subject-matter.
This act of 1861 was in force when the act of 1866-the
act in controversy-was passed, and it will be seen that
birds and fowls are not embraced in the term "animals,"
and that they are free from duty, not because they belong
to the class of "living animals of all kinds," but for the
12 Stat. at Large, 555.
[ Brewer v. Blougher, 14 Peters, 178.

*

t 9 Id. 44.

Dec. 1871.]

REICHE V: SmYTHE.
Opinion of the court.

reason that they are especially designated. It is quite manifest that Congress, adopting the popular signification of the
word "animals," applied it to quadrupeds, and placed birds
and fowls in a different classification. Congress having,
therefore, defined the word in one act, so as to limit its application, how can it be contended that the definition shall
be enlarged in the next act on the same subject, when there
is no language used indicating an intention to produce such
a result? Both acts are in parimateria, and it will be presumed that if the same word be used in both, and a special
meaning were given it in the first act, that it was intended
it should receive the same interpretation in the latter act, in
the absence of anything to show a contrary intention.*
If it be used in a different sense in the act of 1866, its
meaning instead of being extended is narrowed, for all
animals not ejusdem generis. "with horses, mules, cattle,
sheep, and hogs," are excluded from the operation of the
revenue laws. By the act of 1861, living animals of all
kinds, whether domesticated or not, could be imported without paying a duty. The law of 1866 steps in and imposes a
duty on domestic quadrupeds, leaving the act of 1861 applicable to all other quadrupeds, and to birds and fowls.
The case of Homer v. The Colleclor,tis in principle not unlike this. The object of that suit was to ascertain whether,
under the tariff act of 1857, almonds were placed in the category of dried fruits, on which a small duty was imposed.
It was contended as the article was popularly classed among
the dried fruits of the table, with raisins, dates, &c., and as
it was not named specifically in the changes in the act of
1857, that it properly belonged to the schedule providing
for dried fruits. But the court held that as a duty had been
imposed on almonds, eo nomine, in previous tariff acts, the
article was not, for revenue purposes, within the general
term of dried fruit, although in popular language and commercial usage such was its signification.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.
. * Dwnrris on Statutes, pp. 701-766.

t" I Wallace, 486.

