Dec. 1871.]

THE

A.RIAD)NE.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

THE ARLIADNE.
1. The obligation of a "lookout" on vessels sailing, in crowded waters
such as the bay of New York, is of the highest kind. His care must
be indefatigable; his vigilance sleepless; and the rigor of the requirement rises according to the power and speed of the vessel on which
he is. ,
2. When strong evidence, in a case of collision, tends to show that the
catastrophe was owing to the failure of the lookout of the vessel libelled
to attend to his duty, every doubt as to the performance of the duty,
and the effect of non-performance, should be resolved against the vessel
sought to be inculpated until she vindicates herself by testimony conclusive to the contrary.
3. Although where the Circuit and District Court both agree on a question
of alleged fault in a vessel libelled for collision, this court will not
readily reverse, yet it will do so, where after examination its conviction
is that both the courts below were wrong.

from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York.
This was an appeal in admiralty from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York; the
case being one arising from a collision between the steamer
Ariadne and the brig William Edwards, and the questions
being purely questions of fact.
APPEAL

Mr. J. R.Parsons,for thte 'appellant; Mr. B. -H. Owens,
contra.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The collision, which is the subject of this appeal, occurred
in the night of the 13th of December, 1865, off the Jersey
coast, about twelve miles from Barnegat, and eight miles
from land. The brig was on a voyage from Havre to New
York. The wind was north-northeast. The brig was on
her port tack, with her starboard side to the steamer, and
going at the rate of four or five miles an hour. She was
sailing closehauled, as near as she could lie to the wind,
and heading west-northwest or northwest. The steamer

THE ARIADNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

was bound from New York to New Orleans, and was upon
one of her regular trips. She was laden with freight and
carried passengers. She was on her proper course, south by
west one-quarter south, and running at the rate of seven or
eight knots an hour. The brig did not change her course
down to the time of the collision. The steamer was first made
from the brig, about five points from her starboard bow.
She was not discovered from the steamer until it was too
late to avoid the collision. The steamer struck her on her
starboard side, abaft the main chains. The blow was of such
force that it cut through into her cabin and down to the
water's edge. She sunk in a short time. This libel was
filed by her owners to recover damages for her loss. It was
dismissed by the District Court. The decree was affirmed
by the Circuit Court. The decree of the latter has been
brought here by this appeal for review. In this court the
controversy between the parties has been narrowed down to
two points.
It is insisted by the claimant of the steamer that the brig
had no green light, or an insufficient one, on her starboard
side; that the collision is due to this cause, and that the
steamer is blameless.
The libellants deny this impeachment as to the light, and
contend that the lookout on the steamer wholly failed to do
his duty; that he could, and should, have seen the brig,
whether she had, or had not, a sufficient green light, in
season to enable the steamer to avoid the collision, and that
in this particular there is fault on her part. We shall considei the case only in these aspects.
In regard to the light on the brig the testimony, as usual
in such cases, is conflicting. We think that which sustains
the negative largely preponderates. We find no sufficient
reason to doubt that Mlorgan (the brig's lookout) told the
truth. He testified:
"The binnacle light used to bother me-it would frequently
go out. There was something about the oil that was not right..
When I was on the lookout I noticed our starboard light, but not
until the Ariadne was very near to us. I stepped to the side of

Dec. 1871.]

THE ARIADNE.
Statement of the case in the opinion.

the brig, thinking that our light might not be burning, and that
the Ariadne might, therefore, run into us, and then I looked at
our starboard light. The light was very dim. I was, I should
judge, fifty feet from the light when I looked at it, and could
see it plainly. As the light was then burning, I should not
think it could be seen over two hundred feet."
This testimony is fully sustained by all the witnesses, six
in number, who were on the steamer. They were in positions to see the light, and must have seen it if it were distirictly visible. The probative force of these proofs is not
overcome by the testimony of the libellants. Both the courts
below held the charge to be established, and we see no reason to dissent from the conclusion at which they arrived.
The steamer was about two hundred feet long. She
obeyed her helm with unusual quickness. When running
at her then speed, she could be easily stopped in a space of
about twice her length. She approached the brig in the
direction most favorable for her lookout to see the hull and
sails of the latter. According to the steamer's testimony, a
vessel without a light could be seen the eighth of a mile.
Her testimony also shows the following facts: She had but
one lookout. The second mate saw the brig first. He asked
the lookout if he saw her. The lookout thereupon turned
and saw her. He had not seen her before. He saw no
light, and could not tell which way she was heading. Malony, who was at the wheel of the steamer, says:
"I saw the brig just a moment before the first bell struck.
The second mate struck first one bell, and then a second bell,
and then rang again. There was not a, second between. It was
The Ariadne swung about a
done as quick as lightning ....
point and a half, or two points, before we struck."
The lookout says the steamer ran about a length between
the time when he first saw the brig and the time when the
steamer struck her.
There is no controversy as to the facts thus stated. They
are undisputed and indisputable. Certain inferences from
them are inevitable.

THE ARIADNE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The brig was not seen by the lookout or any one else on
the steamer when she was distant as far as she could have
been seen. She was not seen by the lookout at all until his
attention was called to her by the mate. She was not seen
by either of them until almost at the moment of the collision. It is by no means certain that the lookout would have
seen her before he felt the shock but for the inquiry of the
mate. He was on the port side, and had been looking, according to his own account, three minutes in the opposite
direction. The discovery came too late to do any good.
The catastrophe was then unavoidable. For all the purposes of this case there might as well have been no lookout
on the steamer. He could have rendered, and it was his
duty to render, a service of vital importance, -but he rendered none. If the brig had been seen when she became
visible from the steamer, or very soon thereafter, the collision could have been avoided. It would have been the
duty of the steamer to stop or slow her engine until everything as to the brig, necessary to be known, was ascertained.
This would doubtless have been done; and, if so, the result
which followed would have been averted. Indeed, it would
have been impossible to occur. We think the conduct of
the lookout was marked by gross carelessness, and that it
was clearly one of the concurring causes of the disaster.
The waters near the city of New York are at all times
crowded with shipping. Navigation there is not unlike the
traveller threading his way through the mazes of a forest,
with the difference that most of the objects to be avoided
are also in motion. The greatest care and caution are
necessary. The duty of the lookout is of the highest importance. Upon nothing else does the safety of those concerned so much depend. A moment's negligence on his
part may involve the loss of his vessel with all the property
and the lives of all on board. The same consequence may
ensue to the vessel with which his shall collide. In the performance of this duty the law requires indefatigable care
and sleepless vigilance. The rigor of the requirement rises

Dec. 1871.]

THE

ARIADNE.

Opinion of the court.

according to the power and speed of the vessel in question.
It is applied with full force to the steamships belonging to
our commercial marine. If this were not so, there would
be no safety for other vessels. But it is equally important
to vessels of that powerful class for their protection from one
another. It is the duty of all courts, charged with the administration of this branch of our jurisprudence, to give it
the fullest effect whenever the circumstances are such as to
call for its application. Every doubt as to the performance
of the duty, and the effect of non-performance, should be
resolved against the vessel sought to be inculpated until she
vindicates herself by testimony conclusive to the contrary.*
The fault of the brig does not excuse the fault of the
steamer if the latter were, in any degree, a contributory
cause of the collision.t
Both vessels being in fault the damages must be divided.
We are not unmindful that both the Circuit and District
Court came to a conclusion different from ours as to the
alleged fault of the steamer.
Their judgments are entitled to, and have received, our
most respectful consideration. Their concurrence raises a
presumption,primdfacie, that they are correct. Mere doubts
should not be permitted to disturb them. But the presumption referred to may be rebutted. The right of appeal to
this court is a substantial right, and not a shadow. It involves examination, thought, and judgment. Where our
convictions are clear, and differ from those of the learned
judges below, we may not abdicate the performance of the
duty which the law imposes upon us by declining to give
our own judicial effect.1
DECREE REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the Circuit
Court with directions to enter a decree
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

* The Louisiana v. Fisher et al., 21 Howard, 1; Chamberlain v. Ward,
lb. 549; Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 443.
t Chamberlain v. Ward, 21 Howard, 549; Gray Eagle, 9 Wallace, 505.
$ Quickstep, 9 Wallace, 669.

