BUTLER V.

WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the mind of an ordinarily skilful mechanic this double use
to which it could be adapted without material change, then
such adaptation to the new use, is not a new invention, and
is not patentable.
The defendant offered to prove that such was the relation
of the principle of the Newton patent and plaintiff's patent
by experts, and we are clear that the resemblance was close
enough to require the submission of the question of identity
to the jury, and the admission of the testimony of experts
on that subject.
This subject was fully considered in the case of Bischoff
v. Welhered,* decided since the present writ of error was
issued.
This court has no more right than the court below to decide that the one patent covered the invention of the other,
or that it did not; and it is obvious that extended argument
here, to prove such general resemblance as would require the
submission of both patents to the jury, might prejudice the
plaintiff's case on the new trial which must be granted. We
therefore forbear to discuss the matter further; for the same
reason we refrain from comment on the instruction. It is
to be understood that in declining to pass upon the other
alleged errors of the record, this court neither affirms or
overrules the action of the court on those points, and the
case is reversed for this fundamental error, which includes
several others resting on that.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

BUTLER V. WATKINS.
I. On a suit for damages by a patentee against a British corporation and its
"managing agent," sent to this country, in having been fraudulently
pretending in a series of negotiations to conclude an agreement with
him, the patentee, to make use of his patent-the alleged real purpose

* 9 Wallace, 815.

Dec. 1871.]

BUTLER V. WATKINS.
Statement of the case.

having been through drafts of agreements and protracted consultations
to keep the patentee from using his invention during a certain season,
and so to get time to use another invention in which they were themselves largely inferested-it is error to charge that if the corporation
never gave any authority to the managing agent to assent to the draft
of agreement in their behalf and in their name, and never sanctioned it
as a corporate act, suit for such a fraud as above indicated could not be
maintained. The suit not being on any contract, the corporation might
be, notwithstanding, responsible for the fraud.
2. In actions for fraud, large latitude is given to the admission of evidence.
If a motive exist prompting to a particular line of conduct, and it be
shown that in pursuing that line a defendant has deceived and defrauded
one person, it may be inferred that similar conduct towards another, at
about the same time and in relation to a like subject, was actuated by
the same spirit. On such a suit as above mentioned evidence was therefore held admissible that in the same spring or early summer the defendant had similar negotiations with a wholly different person respecting a patented invention of his, like the plaintiff's, and acted deceitfully
towards him in order to keep his invention out of the market in that
year.

EnRoit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana; the case being thus:
Butler, of New Orleans, had procured one or more patents
for an invention called the "Butler Cotton-tie," a machine
for fastening bales of cotton. There was at the same time a
large manufacturing* company near Birmingham, England,
called "The Patent Nut and Bolt Company," of which one
Watkins was the managing agent. Watkins being in this
country, and at New Orleans, had some negotiation with
Butler looking to an arrangement by which the company
should largely assume the manufacture of cotton-ties under
Butler's patent, giving to him a share of the proceeds of
sale. The negotiations, though begun and carried on a certain way, were not concluded. Hereupon Butler sued the
company and Watkins for damages.
The plaintiff's petition alleged that in February, 1868, in
New Orleans, Watkins, in behalf of himself and the Nut and
Bolt Company, had an understanding with him in relation
to the manufacture and sale of his cotton-tie, for the year
1868; that Watkins, for himself and the company, promised
that shortly after his return tQ England (which was to take

BUTLER V.

WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

place a few weeks lifter the date already stated), certain
formalities would be gone through, and the manufacture of
the said ties commenced and completed in ample time for the
business and demand of the year 1868; that for a long time
after the return of Watkins to England (which occurred in
or about the latter part of March, 1868), Watkins and the
company caused him, Butler, to believe that the arrangement would be carried out, and did not undeceive him until
late in the summer of 1868, when it was impossible for him
to make any other arrangement for the manufacture and
sale of the cotton tie.
The plaintiff then averred that these doings of Watkins
and the company were deceitful and in bad faith from beginning to end; that they were done for the purpose of imposing upon him and inducing him to give to Watkins and
the company the control of the Butler Cotton-tie for the
year 1868, with the hope thereby of keeping it out of the
market, and by that means render more certain the sale of
the Beard and other ties, in which Watkins and the company were greatly interested. Further, that the artful and
deceitful acts of Watkins and the company were so perfectly
carried out, and the plaintiff so completely deceived, that
his cotton-tie was kept from sale during the year 1868, and
a large quantity of the Beard and other ties were sold and
disposed of for the benefit of Watkins and the company;
that had he, Butler, not been deceived and imposed upon by
Watkins and the company he would have kept the management of his tie out of their hands, and under his own control, and would thereby have made from its sale during the
year of 1868 at the least $35,000.
The defendants denied the validity of Butler's patent, and
asserted, moreover, that they had never come under any
obligation to him in regard to it.
On the trial it appeared that Butler had made a form of
an agreement, such apparently as he considered had been
fixed on between him and Watkins, and gave it to Watkins.
The draft was dated February 1, 1868; but was not signed
by any one, nor stamped. On the 3d of February Watkins,

Dee. 1871.]

BUTLER V. WATKINS.
Statement of the case.

being still in New Orleans, wrote a note to Butler, in which
he says that he had read the draft and found it "to be about
the thing," and that he will have the same put in shape on
his arrival home and send him, Butler, one to retain, the
others to be returned. Matters remained in that state till
April 17th, 1868, when Watkins thus writes, from the company's works near Birmingham:
"I have laid your proposition before my co-directors and they
have given same their favorable consideration; but you will understand that we Englishmen are very particular as to what we
do-more so than Americans. We are not quite so fast in promising, but are generally faithful to our promises. There are a
few facts in relation to cotton ties and cotton-tie business to be
considered before the agreement is completed.! In the meantime we have commenced the manufacture of your tie and will
send the first shipment (which will be small) to Mobile or New
Orleans for Memphis, as tonnage may offer. The ties which we
send out will be forwarded without prejudice, whether the
agreement is finally sealed by my company or otherwise, and
vill be disposed of on the same terms as named in your agreement proposal."
This evidence being before the jury, the plaintiff offered
in evidence certain letters written by the defendants to one
Charles Wailey (who, it was said, had also invented a cottontie), in the spring and summer of 1868, vherein the defendants led the said Wailey to believe that a contract between
himself and Watkins, managing director of the company, had
been recognized by them and would be by them carried out;
and in connection therewith, the testimony of Wailey, for the
purpose of proving that letters similar in many respects to
letters written to Butler, and offered in evidence, were false
and deceitful acts on the part of defendants, done in order
to keep Wailey's tie out of the market during the year 1868.
The letters were offered in connection with the testimony of
Wailey for the purpose of showing the fraudulent and deceitful conduct of the defendants in keeping Wailey's tie out
of the market in the year 1868, in order to advance their
own interests by a sale of the Beard tie, with the object of

BUTLER V.

WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

showing to the jury the systematic manner and course of the
defendants in fraudulently preventing the sale of other cotton-ties, and thereby to establish the fraud and deceit of
defendants in relation to plaintiff's tie, as charged and set
forth in the petition, and generally to prove the deceitful
and fraudulent conduct and bad faith of defendants in keeping the tie of plaintiff from sale during the entire year of
1868.
The defendants objected to the evidence on the ground
that their letters to Wailey and his testimony in relation to
them could not be proved for the purpose of thereby establishing fraud and deceit on the part of the defendants towards
plamintf, and that if such fraud and deceit existed it would
have to be established by proof of the acts and conduct of
defendants towards Butler, not towards Wailey.
Of this view was the court, and it accordingly refused to
permit the letters to be read in evidence, or the testimony
of Wailey in relation to them to be heard.
The plaintiff excepted.
The court-under requests from the defendants; the
plaintiffs asking no instructions- charged among other
things:
That to bind the plaintiff by the terms of the proposed
agreement his signature to it was necessary, and that so long
as it was unsigned it was only a proposition which he might
at any time withdraw.
That if Watkins declined to sign the draft, and informed
the plaintiff that it must go before the board of directors of
the company and be examined by the board, and put in
form, with the corporate seal attached thereto to render it
valid, it was a notice to the plaintiff that the agreement was
not completed, and that it was not obligatory upon either
party until it was completed in that manner, or some other
sufficient to bind the company.
That if the corporation never gave any authority to Vatkins to
assent to the proposal or draft cgreement in their behalf, and in
their name, and never sanctioned the sane as a corporate act, the
suit cannot be maintaized against them.

Dec. 1871.]

BUTLER V. WATKINS.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Verdict and judgment having gone for the defendant, the
plaintiff brought the case here.
Mir. T.

. Peckham, for the plaintiff in error:

The court erred in the first and second of the above quoted
paragraphs of its charge; for whether the agreement was
binding or not, was immaterial. The action was not on the
agreement, but for the fraud in inducing plaintiff to enter
into negotiations which defendants intended as a sham.
The charge had a tendency to distract the jury's attention
from the real issue.
So it erred in the portion of the charge above italicized;
for here the gist of the action is ignored. The very wrong
complained of is, that defendants never did intend to enter
into the contract, and of course never authorized any one
to bind them by it, but that they did enter into a conspiracy
to make the plaintiff believe that they did intend to make
the contract, while, in fact, never so intending at all.
And, previously to all this, it had erred on the trial, in
excluding the letters to Wailey and his testimony. For in
criminal law evidence of other doings under similar circumstances at about the same time is admissible, not as
proving the other crimes, but as tending to prove the intent
or the animus with which the act under investigation was
done.
Messrs. P. Phillips and J. A. and S. 1). Campbell, contra:
The claim for damages rests on an "understanding" evidenced by a certain draft and letters. Now to sustain an
action on any agreement it must be complete. No obligation is imposed by a mere affirmation or offer to enter into
an agreement. Here, on one side, patent rights were to be
conveyed, which as all know pass under the statutes by
written assignments, on the other band a large undertaking
for manufacturing by a foreign corporation, and the negotiation is with an agent in this country. The subject-matter
then, the corporate character of one of the parties, and its

BUTLER V.

WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

location in a foreign country, without more, leads to the
strongest presumption that the "understanding" was not to
be perfected until some written instrument was signed and
delivered. But we are not left to presunption. The letters
of Watkins to Butler place this question beyond doubt. It
is evident that Watkins either had not the power to bind
the corporation or was unwilling to exercise it.
The whole evidence offered by the plaintiff to show the
understanding," is in paper, and the question whether it
amounted to a valid and binding obligation might properly
have been determined by the court. But here the plaintiff
had the full benefit of the jury as to any inferences which
could be drawn from any circumstances.
Even if the rejection of the evidence about Wailey's letters was erroneous, still, if the plaintiff could not have
recovered if they had been admitted, the error constitutes
no ground for reversal.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
We are unable to discover error in the instructions given
to the jury by the court below, or in the answers made to
the prayers of the defendants, except in a single particular.
What the court said may have been inadequate to a full presentation of the case, but the plaintiff asked for no instructions, and he cannot therefore now be heard to complain
that full instructions were not given. The bills of exceptions bring upon the record only that which was said to the
jury, and to that alone can error be assigned.
It is quite true that the suit was not brought upon any
contract. The theory of the plaintiff was that no agreement
had ever been made, and that the defendants had never intended making one, though all the while during the negotiation, deceptively and fraudulently holding out to the
plaintiff a profession of intention to conclude an agreement,
and that this was done with the purpose of keeping the
plaintiff's "cotton-tie" out of the market. The answers to
the defendants' prayers, so far as they tend to show that no
conttract had been concluded were, therefore, favorable rather

Dec. 1871.]

BUTLER V. WATKINS.

Opinion of the court.

than hurtful to the plaintiff's case, and they furnish no just
ground for complaint.
The court, however, erred in charging the jury that if
they believed "1the corporation never gave any authority to
the defendant, Watkins, to assent to the proposal, or draft
agreement, in their behalf, and in their name, and never
sanctioned the same as a corporate act, the suit could not be
maintained against them." If by this it was meant that no
suit upon the contract could be maintained, the instruction
was correct, but this could not have been sb understood by
the jury. 1No such question was before them. It does not
follow, because the corporation never authorized or sanctioned a contract, that they may not be responsible for such
a fraud as was alleged in the petition. We have not all the
evidence before us, but it does appear that some evidence
was given tending to show that the acts and conduct of the
defendants (Watkins and the corporation), were deceitful
and fraudulent, designed to mislead, and done for the purpose of keeping the plaintiff's cotton-tie out of the market,
in order that they might secure heavy sales of the Beard tie,
in which they were largely interested. If the evidence did
establish or tended to establish such deceit and fraud, for
such a purpose, and if the plaintiff was injured thereby, as
his petition alleged, it was erroneous to charge the jury that
the suit could not be maintained. Competition in efforts to
secure the market is doubtless lawful. A manufacturer may
by superior energy, or enterprise, supply all the buyers of a
particular article, and thus leave no market for similar articles manufactured by others. But he may not fraudulently
or by deceitful representations induce another to withhold
from sale his products without being answerable for the injury occasioned by the fraud. Whether negotiations for a
purchase never concluded were in fact fraudulent; whether
they were commenced and continued solely with the purpose of dishonestly inducing the plaintiff to forego offering
his goods until the market had been supplied, and whether
such was the consequence of the defendants' fraudulent conduct, were questions of fact which should have been sub-

BUTLER V. WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

mitted to the jury on the evidence. If answered affirmatively, the action was sustainable. In order to maintain an
action for fraud it is sufficient to show that the defendant
was guilty of deceit, with a design to deprive the plaintiff
of some profit or advantage, and to acquire it for himself,
whenever loss or damage has resulted from the deceit. This
was well illustrated in Barley v. Walford.* There it appeared
that a plaintiff, who was a dealer in silk goods, had been
hindered in his trade and induced to refrain from making
goods with a certain ornamental design, by a false representation made by the defendant, and known by him to be false,
that a pattern of the goods had been registered by another,
and it was ruled that an action would lie to recover damages
for the injury, especially when the deceit was with a view
to secure some unfair advantage to the defendant.
We think also the court erred in refusing to receive in
evidence the defendants' letters to Wailey in connection
with Wailey's testimony. It was an important inquiry in
the case, what was the purpose or animus of the defendants
in their negotiations with the plaintiff? Was it to mislead
him by holding out false hopes of consummating an arrangement by which his cotton-tie could be introduced into the
market, and was this in order to secure the defendants
themselves against competition ? Deceit in effecting such a
purpose lay at the basis of the action. But how can such a
purpose be shown when it has not been avowed? Actual
fraud is always attended by an intent to defraud, and the
intent may be shown by any evidence that has a tendency to
persuade the mind of its existence. Hence, in actions for
fraud, large latitude is always given to the admission of
evidence. If a motive exist prompting to a particular line
of conduct, and it be shown that in pursuing that line a defendant has deceived and defrauded one person, it may
justly be inferred that similar conduct towards another, at
about the same time, and in relation to a like subject, was
actuated by the same spirit. If therefore it be true that in
* 9 Adolphus & Ellis, N. S. 197.

Dec.1871.]

CAUJOLLE v. FERRIE.
Statement of the
case.

the spring or early summer of 1868 the defendant had similar negotiations with Wailey respecting his cotton-tie, and
conducted towards him deceitfully in order to keep his tie
-out of the market that year, the fact tends to show that in
their conduct towards the plaintiff, there was the same animus, and that they had the same object in view. That the
evidence offered was admissible for that purpqse is abundantly proved by the authorities.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

CAUJOLLE v. FERR,.
A grant of letters of administration by a court having sole and exclusive
power of granting them, and which by statute is obliged to grant them
"to the relatives of the deceased, who would be entitled to succeed to
his persona] estate," is conclusive in other court on a question of legitimacy; the grant having been made on an issue raised on the question
of legitimacy alone, and there having been no question of minority,
bad habits, alienage, or other disqualification simply personal.
Held, accordingly, after a grant under such circumstances, that the
legitimacy could not be gone into by the complainants on a bill for distribution by the persons who had opposed the grant of letters, against
the person to whom they had been granted; but on the contrary, that
the complainants were estopped on that subject.
I

to the Circuit Court for the District of :New York;
the case being thus:
The Revised Statutes of New York, on, the subject of
granting letters of administration, thus enact:
ERROR

"The surrogate of each county shall have sole and exclusive
power within the county for which he may be appointed, to
grant letters of administration of the goods, &c., of persons
dying intestate-when an intestate at or immediately previous
to his death was an inhabitant of the county of such surrogate. t
* Castle v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 172
j 2 Revised Statutes,. 73 23.

VOL. XIII.

-

80

Lincoln v. Claffin, 7 Wallace, 132.

