Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

made after that day. I Congress, on the 12th of July, 1870,
repealed the law on which this claim is founded. It cannot
be supposed that this legislation was directed against the
ultimate payment of the promised indemnity, for the repealing act did not go into operation until the 1st of uly, 1871.
For nearly a year, therefore, the appropriation was continued, and the constituted authorities of the States, were
told to hasten their action if they wished to avail themselves
of the benefits of the law. It was easy for them to see thatif by delay, or from any other cause, they suffered the appropriation to expire without getting a settlement of their
claims, that additional legislation would be necessary to furnish them relief, for the effect of the repealing law after the
limitation expired, was not only to take the subject out of
the control of the secretary, but to place it within the control of Congress.
These views dispose of this case. It is proper to observe,
in conclusion, that many important questions are presented
in the pleadings, and were argued at the bar, on which we
have purposely refrained from expressing an opinion, and
which are open for consideration in any future case that may
arise, where they are applicable.
DEMURRER OVERRULED and a peremptory writ of mandamus
DENIED.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

1. The second section of the act of M?[arch 3d, 1823, amendatory of the act
regulating the entry of merchandise imported into the United States
from any adjacent Territory (3 Stat. at Large, 781), enacts: "That if
any person or persons shall receive, conceal, or buy any goods, wares, or merchandise, knowing them to have been illegally imported into the United States,
and liable to seizure by virtue of any act in relation to the revenue, such person
or persons shall, on conviction thereof, forfeit and pay a sum double the amount
or value of the goods, wares, or merchandise so received, concealed, or pur-

chased." Held, 1st, that a civil action of debt will lie, at the suit of the
United States, to recover the forfeitures or penalties incurred under this
section ; 2d, that the section is remedial, and not strictly penal in its
character; and 3d, that the section applies to illegal importers as well as
to accessories after the illegal importation.

STOOKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
2. Debt lies whenever a sum certain is due to the plaintiff, or a sum which
can readily be reduced to a certainty requiring no future valuation to
settle its amount, and it is immaterial in what manner the obligation is
incurred, or by what it is evidenced.
3. Thefourth section of the act of July 18th, 1866, entitled "1An act further
to prevent smuggling, and for other purposes," enacts: "That if any
person shall fraudulently or knowingly import or bring into the United States,
or assist in so doing, any goods, wares, or merchandise contrary to law, or shall
receive, conceal, buy, sell, or in any manner facilitate the transportation, concealment, or sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise, after their importation,
knowing the same to have been imported contrary to law, such goods, wares,
and merchandise shall be forfeited, and he or she shall, on conviction thereof
before any court of competent jurisdiction, be fined in any sum not exceeding
five thousand dollars nor less than fifty dollars, or be imprisoned for any time
not exceeding two years, or both, at the discretion of such court." The
eighteenth section of the act declares "that nothing in the act shall be taken
to abridge, or limit, any forfeiture, penalty, fine, liability, or remedy provided
for or existing under any law now in force, except as herein ot hrtise
specially
provided." And the forty-third section of the act repeals several acts by
name, and also " all other acts and parts of acts conflicting with or slepplied
by this act."
Held, that the penalty of the second section of the act of
1823 is not repealed by this act of 1866. The design cf this latter act
was to punish as a crime that which before had subjected its perpetrator
to civil liability, or quasi civil liability.
4. On the trial of a civil action brought by the United States under the
second section of the above act of 1823, to recover against two members
of a firm residing at Bangor, in Maine, double the value of certain
shingles, the produce of one of the British Provinces, alleged to have
been received, concealed, and bought by the defendants, knowing them
to have been illegally imported, it is not error in the court to instruct
the jury that the knowledge of another member of the firm, who was
not sued, was to be deemed the knowledge of the defendants, and that if
he knew at the time of the importation and reception of the shingles at
Bangor, "that they were Province shingles, liable to duty and seizure,
and illegally imported, it was not necessary for the government to prove
that the defendants sued personally had actual knowledge of these facts,
which were then within the knowledge of their partner;" and that
"if with this knowledge on the part of the absent partner, that the
shingles were illegally imported and liable to seizure, the firm, in the
usual course of the business, received the shingles at Bangor, and they
were disposed of by them, and the profits of the business divided among
all the partners, the jury were authorized to find that the defendants
received the shingles, knowing that the same were illegally imported
and liable to seizure."

to the Circuit Court for the District of Maine.
The United States brought an action of debt, in the District Court for the Maine District, against D. R. Stockwell
ERROR

Dec. 1871.]

STOOKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

and J. L. Cutter to recover (inter alia) double the value of
certain importations of shingles alleged to have been illegally
made, and received, concealed, or bought by the defendants,
with knowledge that the shingles had been illegally imported
into the United States.
The case, which depended partly upon statutes and partly
upon facts and evidence, was thus:
On the 3d of March, 1823,* Congress passed an act the 2d
section of which enacts:
"That if any person or persons shall receive, conceal, or buy
any goods, wares, or merchandise, knowing them to have been
illegally imported into the United States, and liable to seizure
by virtue of any act in relation to the revenue, such person or
persons shall, on conviction thereof,forfeit and pay a sum double
the amount or value of the goods, wares, or merchandise so received, concealed, or purchased."
The 5th section of the act enacted that all penalties and
forfeitures incurred by force of it should be sued for, recovered, distributed, and accounted for in the manner prescribed
by the act of March 2d, 1799, entitled "'Au act to regulate
the co]lection of duties on imports and tonnage." That act
(by its 89th section) directs all penalties accruing by any
breach of the act, to be sued for and recovered, with costs
of suit, in the name of the United States of America, in any
court competent to try the same; and the collector, within
whose district a forfeiture shall have been incurred, is enjoined to cause suits for the same to be commenced without
delay.
On the 18th of July, 1866,t Congress passed another act,
entitled "An act furtherto prevent smuggling, and for other
purposes." The 4th section of this statute enacted:
"That if any person shall fraudulently or knowingly import or
bring into the United States, or assist in so doing, any goods,
wares, or merchandise contrary to law, or shall receive, conceal,
buy, sell, or in any manner facilitate the transportation, conceal* 3 Stat. at Large, 781.

t14 Id. 179.

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED

STATES.

E-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ment, or sale of such goods, wares, or merchandise after their
importation, knowing the same to have been imported contrary
to law, such goods, wares, and merchandise shall be forfeited,
and he or she shall, on conviction thereof before any court of
competent jurisdiction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $5000
nor less than $50, or be imprisoned for any time not exceeding
two years, or both, at the discretion of such court."
The same section declares that present or past possession
of the goods by the defendant shall be sufficient evidence to
authorize his conviction, unless such possession be explained
to the satisfaction of the jury.
The 18th section declares:
"That nothing in the act shall be taken to abridge, or limit,
any forfeiture, penalty, fine, liability or remedy provided for or
existing under any law now in force, except as herein otherwise
specially provided."
And the 43d section, that all other acts and parts of acts
conflicting with or supplied by it should be repealed.
It was with both these statutes on the statute-book that
the action was brought.
One set of counts was to recover the dulies on the importations. Another set to recover, under the 2d section of the
statute of 1823, double the value of the goods received by
the defendants.
The admitted facts of the case and the evidence tending
to establish or disprove those disputed were thus:
The defendants, residents of Bangor, Maine, had long
been engaged in the trading in shingles there. They were
partners with one Chalmers, under the firm of D. R. Stockwell & Co. Chalmers was not proceeded against. In 1863,
the firm made an arrangement with one Leman Stockwell,
also of Bangor, to go to Aroostook County, in Maine, Frederickton and St. John, in New Brunswick, and there collect,
buy, and forward shingles, to be consigned to the firm at
Bangor; under circumstances as to the division of profit
and loss between the firm and their agent, Leman Stockwell, which it was not here denied made them partners with

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

535

Statement of the case.

him in the shingle business done under this arrangement,
but not in their general business.
No question was made in this court that the shingles, for
the double value of which the suit was brought, were subject to duties if they. were of Provincial growth.
In the years 1863-4, Leman Stockwell was in Aroostook
County, in Maine, and on the St. John River, and at Frederickton and St. John, engaged in the business of collecting,
buying, and forwarding shingles to Bangor, on the account
of this arrangement, consigned to D. R. Stockwell & Go.
There was evidence tending to show that the shingles, for
the importation of which these duties and penalties are
claimed, were not of the growth and produce of the State
of Maine, or of that portion of the State watered by the
river St. John or its tributaries, but were the growth and
produce of the province of New Brunswick. There was also
evidence to rebut this, and tending to show that they vere
of the growth and produce of Maine, as aforesaid. There
was evidence tending to show that the defendants did, ill
fact, know that the said shingles were of the growth and
produce of New Brunswick, and there was evidence tending
to show that they had no knowledge or information on the
subject.
When these cargoes came to Bangor, in 1863 or 1864,
they were reported at the custom-house, with the manifest
and foreign clearances, and with certificates of their American origin. The collector required no duties on the cargoes,
and no entries to be made, nor invoices, nor bills of lading,
to be produced; but the cargoes were allowed to be taken
into the shed of D. R. Stockwell & Co., and there to be
housed, sorted, and sold, in the usual manner of the trade.
They were treated, in fact, by all parties as not being subject to duties. The shingles were openly in the possession
of D. R. Stockwell & Co., sometimes lying over a season unsold, and no attempts were made by either of the defendants,
or by Leman Stockwell, or Mr. Chalmers, or by any person
connected with them, to conceal the shingles, or in any way
to interfere with the exercise of the power of seizing them;

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and the revenue department did not claim duties, nor
attempt to seize the shingles, and made no claim against the
defendants, or any one connected with them, of any kind,
until the commencement of this suit, which was April 2d,
1868, when the shingles had been sold for three or four
years or so.
As to the counts under the act of 1823, to recover double
the value of the shingles, the defendants presented the following, among other prayers for instructions:
1. That a civil action will not lie to recover the double
value, and that the United States cannot recover both the
double values and the duties under the declaration.
2. That the jury must be satisfied, as to each defendant,
that le knew that the shingles had been illegally imported,
and were liable to seizure, before he received, concealed, (r
bought the same; and that such receiving, concealing, or
buying must have been with an intent to defraud the revenues.
The presiding judge ruled that a civil action would lie for
the double values under the act of 1823; and thus instructed
the jury :
"If Leman Stockwell, in the conduct and management of
the shingle business so intrusted to him, and in the course of
the business and fbr the common and joint benefit of himself
and D. R. Stockwell & Co., went into New Brunswick, and there
knowingly purchased and received on their joint account, shaved
shingles, the growth and produce of New Brunswick, and afterwards, he, by himself or his agents, knowingly sent such shingles
to his copartners D. IR. Stockwell & Co., at Bangor, fraudulently
documenting them as of the growth of Maine, so that thereby,
in the regular course of business, they should be and were ad-

mitted and received into the country by the defendants as the
growth of Maine, the shingles so imported were illegally imported and liable to seizure; and these defendants, being then
his partners, are in this action chargeable with and bound by this
knowledge of Leman Stockwell, if such was his knowledge, viz.:
that the shingles were the growth of New Brunswick, liable to

duty and seizure, being illegally imported.

This being a civil

action, and not a criminal prosecution, the knowledge of one of

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

637

Argument for the lumber merchants.

the firm on these matters in this suit is to be deemed the knowledge
of the defendants, his copartners in the shingle business."
"If Leman Stockwell, at the time of the importation and reception of the shingles at Bangor, knew that they were Province shingles, liable to duty and seizure, &c., it was not necessary
for the government to prove that the defendantspersonallyhad actual
knowledge of these facts, which were then within the knowledge of
theirpartner, Jeman Stockwell."
"If with this knowledge, as before stated, on Leman's part,
that the shingles were illegally imported and liable to seizure,
D. RI. Stockwell & Co., in the usual course of the business, received the shingles at Bangor, and they were disposed of by
them, and the profits of the business divided as stated above,
the jury are authorized to find that the defendants, being Leman's partners, received the shingles, knowing the same were
illegally imported and liable to seizure."
When the charge to the jury was completed, the defendants' exceptions to the refusal of the court to give the instructions requested by them, and to the instructions given
to the jury as above stated, were duly reserved to them.
The verdict was for the plaintiffs on the counts for the
duties and the double values; and judgment going accordingly in the District Court, and this being affirmed in the
Circuit, the defendants brought the case here on writ of
error; no error being, however, assigned relating to the
first-mentioned cou-nts.
Mr. B. H. -Dana,for the plaintiffs in error:
I. A civil action of debt will not lie in this case in the name of
the United States. Where the proceeding is by the sovereign
and for a penalty based on an offence, it must be by indictment or by information of debt. The statute of 1823 makes
the penalty depend "on conviction thereof." It requires
knowledge on the part of the offender. The ofence and penalty are not based on the illegal importation, but on the
knowingly concealing, &c., goods illegally imported. The
penalty is the double value, not of the importation, but of
the goods concealed.

STOOKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the lumber merchants.

The provisions of the 6th section, that the penalties and
forfeitures "shall be sued for and recovered" in the manner
prescribed by the act of 1799, do not necessarily give a civil
action of debt. The words "sued for," "recovered," will
embrace the information of debt and even an indictment for
a penalty.*
The difference which we here insist on becomes material
in this case; for the judge ruled that by reason of this being
a civil action, the defendants were bound by an artificial
presumption of knowledge from the knowledge of "their
partner, which they would not have been in a proceeding
of a different character.
II. The court erred in the ruling, that in a proceeding under the
act of 1823, the knowledge required of the defendants was conclusively presumedfrom the knowledge possessed by their agent, being
their partner in the transaction.
1. The statute is entirely punitive. The loss the government sustains and its civil claim are for the duties. These
they have recovered in this suit, of these defendants, and no
error is assigned to defeat that claim. The utmost loss the
government could sustain by the concealing of the goods
liable to seizure, would be the value of the goods so concealed. The penalty inflicted by the statute is arbitrary and
absolute, and has no reference to indemnification. The
penalty is calculated upon the illegal act, and is double the
value of the goods received or concealed, without reference
to the duties or the value of the consignment. It is in fact
purely a punishment for the illegal act of receiving and concealing smuggled goods.
The statute requires the existence of four things: First,
an illegal importation by some person; second, that the
goods be subject to seizure; third, a knowledge by the defendants of both these facts; and, fourth, a receiving, concealing, or buying of these goods by the defendants after
importation, and after they have become subject to seizure.
The scienter is the sine qua non of the offence. All persons
* Act 1808, ch. 8, sect. 6, 2 Stat. at Large, 454; Walsh v. United States,

8 Woodbury & AMinot, 845.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

539

Argument for the lumber merchants.

are liable to buy smuggled goods subject to seizure. As
simply buying these goods is made a sufficient act, the offence
depends on the scienter.
This suit is not upon a partnership liability. The defendants could not have pleaded the nonjoinder of Chalmers in
abatement. Each defendant was liable for his own act, and,
although partners, the verdict might be against one and in
favor of the other. If the ruling had been that the fact that
Leman Stockwell was agent and partner should be weighed
by the jury as a circumstance tending to show knowledge
on the part of the defendants, no error could have been
assigned.
2. The instructions do not make a proper distinction as
to the character of the acts. If an agent or partner, in the
course of his employment, wilully does an act in violation of
law, the principal or partner is not liable, except upon evidence that he authorized or adopted it. In the absence of
proof as to actual authorization, or in determining whether
he impliedly authorized it, the nature of the employment
and of the act must be compared and the instructions should
refer to the consideration whether the illegal act was one
the doing of which may be fairly held to have been authorized from the nature of the employment, &c., &c. An absolute instruction, as this substantially was, that from the fact
of an authority to buy and ship goods, an illegal act of shipping goods by a fraudulent invoice or description was in law
the act of the partnership, and not open to rebuttal, would
be incorrect.*
3. Such ruling would deprive the defendants of the benefit
of the presumption that no one does an act prohibited by
law. This presumption applies, of course, to the auth6rizing of an illegal act by another. It is, doubtless, a rebuttable presumption and cannot overweigh facts and is to be
balanced with other presumptions; but the defendants should
have the benefit of it in the scales.t
* M cManus v. Crickett, 1 East, 106.

" Bennett v. Clough, 1 Barnewall & Alderson, 461; Sissons v. Dixon, 5
Barnewall & Cresswell, 768; S. C., 8 Dowling & Ryland, 526, 9; Wilson v.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the lumber merchants.

4. The instructions were erroneous in that they required
the jury to find that the defendants knew of the illegal importations from the mere fact of a knowledge of their partner in a foreign country, without submitting to the jury the
question whether the defendants authorized the act of their
agent and partner, or did in fict know of it.
5. In all cases where knowledge is required by statute,
the question of knowledge is left to the jury, with instructions as to presumptions and primO facie proof, &c., if required; but, on balancing the presumptions arising on each
side, and the facts proved, the jury must be satisfied of the
knowledge. The cases of lRegina v. Dean,* Graham v. Pocoek,t and numerous others,t show that such is always the
course taken whenever a principal or partner is charged for
a penalty, or even to make good a loss, by reason of an act
of an agent or partner, if knowledge on his part is an ingredient. So in civil suits where knowledge is required.ยง
6. Assuming the instructions to state the law correctly,
that a principal or partnership may be liable for a tort of an
agent or copartner, done without their knowledge and authority, in suits brought to recover compensation or indemnification for a loss suffered by a third person through the
misconduct of an agent or partner-they were erroneous in
assuming that the same rule applies in the case of a suit to
recover a penalty.
7. It has been said by text-writers, in general terms, that
a principal may be held responsible for the illegal or tortious
act of his agent, even penally and criminally. But in all
cases, when the principal or partner has not authorized the
Rankin, 6 Best & Smith, 208; Peacheyv. Rowland, 13 C. B. 182; Lyons v.
.-Martin, 8 Adolphus & Ellis, 512; Freeman v. Rosher, 13 Q. B. 780: Earle v.
Rowcroft, 8 East, 126, 133.
12 Meeson & Welsby, 39.
t Law Reports, 3 Privy Council, 345.
t Cooper v Slade, 6 House of Lords Cases, 749; Regina v. Bradley, 10
'Modern, 155; Rex v. Dixon, 3 Maule & Selwyn, 11; Rex v. Manning, 2 Com.
R. 616; Attorney-General v. Riddle, 2 Crompton & Jervis, 493; AttorneyGeneral v. Siddon, 1 Id. 220; United States v. Halberstadt, Gilpin, 262.
Lewis v. Read, 13 Meeson & Welsby, 834; Castle v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 172.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL

V.

UNITED STATES.

541

Opinion of the court.

act or adopted it with knowledge, he is held liable only to
make good the loss, or to the extent of the consideration,and benefit
received.*
IlI. The act of 1823 cannot be construed to apply to the illegal
importers themselves. It applies only to an offence committed
after the goods shall have been the subject of a prior offence
by which they shall have been "illegally imported," and
have become "liable to seizure." There are, then, two acts:
first, such an act of illegal importation as shall have made
the goods liable to seizure; second, after the liability to seizure has attached, an act of receiving, concealing, or buying
the goods, with knowledge of the illegal importation and
liability to seizure. There are numerous and sufficient laws
punishing by fine, penalty, or forfeiture, all forms of illegal
importation. The act of 1823 does not assume to provide
for the original offender, but only for the person who, with
knowledge of that offence, shall aid in keeping the goods
out of the reach of the government. In order to cover all
the methods by which this may be done, the words "receive,
conceal, or buy," are used. These words will cover every
act of an accessory after the fact.
IV. The act of 1866 inflicts a penalty for the same offence
set forth in the act of 1828. This penalty may be less than
that of the act of 1823, as it may be a fine of only $50. It
must therefore be held to supersede and repeal the penalty
under the former act.
Mr. _B. H. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mr. C. H. Bill,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The first error assigned is that a civil action of debt will
not lie, at the suit of the United States, to recover the for* Smith's Leading Cases (Hare &Wallace), 329,330; United States v. Halberstadt, Gilpin, 262; Turner v.. N. B. R. R., 34 California, 594; Hutchins
v. Turner, 8 Humphreys, 415; Morley v. Gaisford, 2 H. Blackstone, 442;
McManus v. Crickett, 1 East, 106; Gordon v. Rolt, 4 Exchequer, 365; Sharrod v. L. & X. W. R. R. 4 Exchequer, 580; Taylor v. Green, 8 Carrington
& Payne, 316.

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

ESup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

feitures or penalties incurred under this act of Congress, and
that the court below erred in holding that such an action
might be maintained. It is not contended that an action of
debt will not lie to recover duties, if the defendant be the
owner or importer of the goods imported, for it is conceded
that by the act of importing an obligation to pay the duties
is incurred. The obligation springs out of the statutes
which impose duties. Nor is it doubted that when a statute
gives to a private person a right to recover a penalty for a
violation of law he may maintain an action of debt, but it is
insisted that when the government proceeds for a penalty
based on an offence against law, it must be by indictment or
by information. No authority has been adduced in support
of this position, and it is believed that none exists. It cannot be that whether an action of debt is maintainable or not
depends upon the question who is the plaintiff. Debt lies
whenever a sum certain is due to the plaintiff, or a sum
which can readily be reduced to a certainty-a sum requiring no future valuation to settle its amount. It is not necessarily founded upon contract. It is immaterial in what
manner the obligation was incurred, or by what it is evidenced, if the sum owing is capable of being definitely
ascertained. The act of 1823 fixes the amount of the liability at double the value of the goods received, concealed,
or purchased, and the only party injured by the illegal acts,
which subject the perpetrators to the liability, is the United
States. It would seem, therefore, that whether the liability
incurred is to be regarded as a penalty, or as liquidated
damages for an injury done to the United States, it is a debt,
and as such it must be recoverable in a civil action.
But all doubts respecting the matter are set at rest by the
fourth section of the act, which enacted that all penalties
and fbrfeitures incurred by force thereof shall be sued for,
recovered, distributed, and accounted for in the manner
prescribed by the act of March 2d, 1799, entitled "An act
to regulate the collection of duties on imports and tonnage."
By referring to the 89th section of that act it will be seen
that it directs all penalties, accruing by any breach of the

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

543

Opinion of the court.

act, to be sued for and recovered, with costs of suit, in the
name of the United States of America, in any court competent to try the same; and the collector, within whose district a forfeiture shall have been incurred, is enjoined to
cause suits for the same to be commenced without delay..
This manifestly contemplates civil actions, as does the proviso to the same section, which declares that no action or
prosecution shall be maintained in any case under the act, unless the same shall have been commenced within three years
after the penalty or forfeiture was incurred. Accordingly,
it has frequently been ruled that debt will lie, at the suit of
the United States, to recover the penalties and forfeitures
imtiosed by statutes.* It is true that the statute of 1823
'imposes the forfeiture and liability to pay double the value
of the goods received, concealed, or purchased, with knowledge that they had been illegally imported, "on conviction
thereof." It may be, therefore, that an indictment or information might be sustained. But the question now is,
whether a civil action can be brought, and, in view of the provision that all penalties and forfeitures incurred by force of
the act shall "be sued for and recovered," as prescribed by
the act of 1799, we are of opinion that debt is maintainable.
The expression "sued for and recovered" is primarily applicable to civil actions, and not to those of a criminal nature.
The second assignment of error is that the jury were instructed the knowledge of the defendants required by the
statute in order to render them liable, was conclusively presumed from the knowledge of their agent, their partner in
the transaction. This is hardly a fair exhibition of what the
court did charge. The instruction given to the jury, and all
that is assignedfor error, was that "if Leman Stockwell, as a
member of the firm, engaged in the shingle business at the
time of the importation and reception of the shingles at
* United States v. Colt, Peters's Circuit Court, 145; Jacob v. United
States, 1 Brockenbrough, 520; United States v. Bougher, 6 IcLean, 277;
Walsh v. United States, 3 Woodbury & Minot, 342; United States v. Lyman,
I Mason, 482; United States v. Allen, 4 Day, 474.

STOOKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Bangor, knew that they were Province shingles, liable to
duty and seizure, and illegally imported, it was not necessary for the government to prove that the defendants personally had actual knowledge of these facts, which were
then within the knowledge of their partner, Leman Stockwell." This is all which is embraced in the assignment.
But the court added, that "if with this knowledge, as before
stated on Leman's part, that the shingles were illegally imported and liable to seizure, D. R. Stockwell & Co., in the
usual course of the business, received the shingles at Bangor,
and they were disposed of by them, and the profits of the
business divided as stated above, the jury were authorized
to find that the defendants, being Leman's partners, received
the shingles knowing the same were illegally imported and
liable to seizure." Taking this together, and it must be so
taken, for the exception was general to the instructions
given, it cannot be said to justify the complaint that the
court ruled knowledge of the defendants that the shingles
had been illegally imported was conclusively presumed from
the knowledge of Leman Stockwell, their partner. Qualified by what was added to the language alleged to be erroneous, it amounts to no more than that the jury might presume such knowledge from the facts stated.
To understand the force and merits of this instruction it
is necessary to notice concisely the facts of which evidence
had been given at the trial.
The defendants were lumber dealers resident in Bangor,
in the State of Maine, and partners under the firm name of
D. R. Stockwell & Co. In 1863 they made an arrangement
with Leman Stockwell, a brother of one of the partners,
that he should go to Aroostook County, in Maine, and to
Frederickton and St. John, in the Province of New Brunswick, and there collect, buy, and forward shingles, consigned
to the firm at Bangor. By the arrangement he became a
partner with them in the shingle business, done in pursuance of it. ie purchased shingles and shipped them from
St. John to Bangor, consigned to the firm. Some of these
shingles were of Provincial growth, known to Leman Stock-

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

well to be such. They were of course subject to duties.
There was evidence that Leman Stockwell knew them to be
subject to duties, and liable to seizure if the duties were not
paid, and that with that knowledge he exported them from
St. John, documented as of the growth of Maine, with the
intent that they should be, and in order that they might be,
imported as free from duty. When the cargoes came to
Bangor, in 1863 or 1864, the defendants reported them at
the custom-house with the manifest and foreign clearances,
and with certificates, or affidavits, of their American origin.
No duties were therefore exacted, nor were entries required
to be made, or invoices, or bills of lading to be produced;
but the collector allowed the shingles to be taken to the
sheds of the defendants, where they were received, sorted,
and sold in the usual manner of the trade. An account was
kept of the business, and at the end of each year the profits
were divided between Leman Stockwell and the members
of the firm. When subsequently it was discovered, after
all the shingles had been sold, that they were not of American origin, but were the growth of the Province of New
Brunswick, and as such subject to duties, and consequently
that they had been illegally imported, in fraud of the revenue
laws, this action was brought, and at the trial the defendants
requested the -court to charge the jury "that they must be
satisfied, as to each defendant, that he knew that the shingles
had been illegally imported, and were liable to seizure, before he received, concealed, or bought the same; and that
such receiving, concealing, or buying must have been with
an intent to defraud the revenues." The court, however,
instructed the jury, as we have above stated. It is now insisted that in thus charging the jury the court fell into error.
The argument is rested mainly upon the assumption that
the statute upon which the action is founded is a penal
statute intended solely for the punishment of crimes against
the revenue laws. It is not seriously denied that in civil
transactions a principal or a partnership is affected by the
knowledge of the agent or copartner, and that the knowledge of the agent is in law attributed to his principal, as
voL. XIII.

85

STOCKWELL

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

well as that of the partner to all the members of the firm;
nor is it much insisted that a principal, or copartner, is not
liable for the tort of an agent, or copartner, done without his
knowledge or authority, in suits brought by third persons
to recover compensation, or indemnity for loss sustained in
consequence of the tort; but it is argued that the rule does
not apply in the case of suits for a penalty. It becomes, then,
material to consider the nature and purposes of the statute
under which it is claimed the liability of the defendants has
arisen. Is it strictly punitive, or is it remedial ?
When foreign merchandise, subject to duties, is imported
into the country, the act of importation imposes upon the
importer the obligation to pay the legal charges. Besides
this the goods themselves, if the duties be not paid, are subject to seizure and appropriation by the government. In a
very important sense they become the property of the government. Every act, therefore, which interferes with the
right of the government to seize and appropriate the property which has been forfeited to it, or which may hinder the
exercise of its right to seize and appropriate such property,
is a wrong to property rights, and is a fit subject for indemnity. Now, it is against interference with the right of the
government to seize and appropriate to its own use property
illegally imported that the statute of 1823 was aimed. It
was to secure indemnity for a wrong to rights of property.
The instant that goods are illegally imported, the instant
that they pass through the custom-house without the payment of duties, the right of the government to seize and appropriate them becomes perfect. If any person receives
them, knowing them to have been illegally imported, or
conceals them, or buys them, his act necessarily embarrasses,
if it does not defeat altogether the possibility of the government's availing itself of its right and securing the property.
It is therefore manifest that the act of 1823 was fully as remedial in its character, designed as plainly to secure civil
rights, as are the statutes rendering importers liable to
duties. Its plain purpose was to protect the government in
the unembarrassed enjoyment of its rights to all goods and

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

merchandise illegally imported, and it proportioned indemnity for infringement upon such rights to the loss which
such infringement might cause. The amount recoverable is
in proportion to the value of the goods abstracted or concealed, or bought, not at all in proportion to the degree of
criminality of the act of receipt or concealment Obviously
there may be more guilt in concealing goods illegally imported, worth only one hundred dollars, than in receiving or
concealing imported property worth ten times as much, but
the statute measures the liability not by the guilt but by the
value of the goods. It must therefore be considered as remedial, as providing indemnity for loss. And it is not the
less so because the liability of the wrongdoer is measured
by double the value of the goods received, concealed, or purchased, instead of their single value. The act of abstracting
goods illegally imported, receiving, concealing, or buying
them, interposes difficulties in the way of a government
seizure, and impairs, therefore, the value of the government
right. It is, then, hardly accurate to say that the only loss
the government can sustain from concealing the goods liable
to seizure is their single value, or to assert that the liability
imposed by the statute of double the value is arbitrary and
without reference to indemnification. Double the value may
not be more than complete indemnity. There are many
cases in which a party injured is allowed to recover in a civil
action double or treble damages. Suits for infringement of
patents are instances, and in some States a plaintiff recovers
double damages for cutting timber upon his land. It will
hardly be claimed that these are penal actions requiring the
application of different rules of evidence from those that
prevail in other actions for indemnity. Regarding, then, an
action of debt founded upon the act of 1823 as a claim for
compensation or indemnity, it cannot be maintained upon
authority or principle that the knowledge of the agent that
the goods had been illegally imported is not presumptively
the knowledge of the principal. That as a general rule partners are all liable to make indemnity for the tort of one of
their number, committed by him in the ,course of the part-

548

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nership business, is familiar doctrine. It rests upon the
theory that the contract of partnership constitutes all its
members agents for each other, and that when a loss must
fall upon one of two innocent persons he must bear it who
has been the occasion of the loss or has enabled a third
person to cause it. In other words, the tortious act of the
agent is the act of his principals, if done in the course of his
agency, though not directly authorized. And this is emphatically true when the principals, as in this case, have
received and appropriated the benefit of the act. These defendants received the shingles on their arrival at Bangor,
presenting at the custom-house false certificates of their
American origin. They paid no duties. They removed the
property to their own lumber sheds, sold it, and divided the
profits, retaining a portion for themselves. They have therefore now the proceeds of sale of property which was not
their own, but which had been forfeited to the United States,
and they have secured and they now hold these proceeds
through the tortious act of their own partner, who planned
and effected the fraudulent importation for their benefit and
his. Can it be that they may derive a profit from his
fraud and yet repudiate his act by asserting that his knowledge of the fraud does not affect them ? If they can, the
revenue laws will be found utterly ineffectual to protect the
revenues of the government, and facilities to fraud will be
abundant. If an irresponsible agent consigns to his principal foreign merchandise, documenting it as of American
growth or production, it will always be difficult if not impossible to prove knowledge by the principal that the agent
has perpetrated a fraud, and if that is necessary to give to
the government a right of action under the act of 1823
against the principals who claim or conceal property thus
brought into the country, the act utterly fails to secure a
remedy for the mischief against which it was intended to
guard.
The plaintiffs in error have argued that in all cases where
knowledge is by statute made essential to liability, whenever
an attempt is made to hold a principal or partner responsible

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

for a loss occasioned by the act of his agent, or partner, the
question of his knowledge, apart from that of the agent, is
submitted to the jury, or, in other words, the knowledge of
the agent or partner is regarded as distinct from that of the
principal. Numerous cases have been cited which it is supposed support this position. We do not find, however, that
such is the doctrine of any of them. The case of Regina v.
-Dean,one of the cases cited, was an information for penalties
under the Smuggling Prevention Act of 8 and 4 Will. IV, in
which the defendant was charged, inter alia, with knowingly
harboring goods imported and illegally unshipped without
payment of duties. *At the trial it appeared that a clerk of
the defendant, with the assistance of two custom-house officers, had made false entries of the quantities of goods imported, but no knowledge of the fraud was brought home to
the defendant, though it appeared that he had, or must have
derived benefit from the fraudulent transaction. Lord Abinger told the jury that as the defendant had derived benefit
from the fraud, they might infer knowledge on his part of
the fraud having been committed, and.that the case, under
those circumstances, would be made out against the defendant. This was very like the instruction given, of which the
plaintiffs in error complain. On a motion for a new trial,
for misinstruction, the Exchequer refused a rule. It was
conceded in the argument that when goods illegally imported, without payment of duties, are brought to the place
of business of a trader, by an agent or clerk of his, known
by him not to have paid any duty, and are found there,
there is a fair inference he knew the duties had been evaded.
The ruling in this case was in a criminal proceeding. The
information was for a penalty, and not for the value of the
goods. Graham v. Pocock is another case cited. There the
defendants were sued, and one of them was held liable for
unshippiug and landing goods liable to forfeiture. No question of knowledge was mooted. And in none of the other
cases cited do we find it held that in civil actions for indemnity, or for double or treble value, the knowledge of
the agent is not to be imputed to the principal. Upon this

STOOKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

subject the opinion of this court has been outspoken, and it
has been in accordance with the instruction given to the
jury in the case before us.* The principle asserted in all
those cases is that whatever an agent does, or says, in reference to the business in which he is at the time employed,
and within the scope of his authority, is done, or said, by
the principal; and may be proved, as well in a criminal as
a civil case, in like manner as if the evidence applied personally to the principal.
The British statutes for the prevention of smuggling differ
from our act of 1823. They are both penal and remedial.
They impose not only a liability for treble value of goods
illegally imported, upon assisting in unlading them, or knowingly harboring or concealing them, but also a stipulated
penalty, in some cases leaving to the revenue commissioners
to determine whether proceedings shall be instituted for the
penalty or for treble the damages. Yet in both classes of
eases the fraudulent act of a servant is held attributable to
his master when the master has derived a benefit from the
illegal importation.t We think, therefore, the charge of
the court, of which the plaintiffs in error complain, was not
erroneous.
It is next contended that section second of the act of 1823
cannot be construed to apply to the illegal importers themselves. As it extends only to acts done after the illegal
importation and requires knowledge of its illegality, it is
argued that it aims rather at accessories after the fact. We
think, however, it embraces both. If it does not, then
greater liabilities are laid on the accessory than on the principal. The mischief at which the act aimed was, as we have
seen, embarrassing the right of the government to seize the
forfeited goods. That may be done as well by importers as
Vide United States v. Gooding, 12 Wheaton, 468; American Fur Company v. United States, 2 Peters, 364; and Oliquot's Champagne, 3 Wallace,
140.
t Attorney-General v. Siddon, 1 Crompton & Jervis, 220; Rex v. Manning, 2 Comyns, 616.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWEL.L V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

others. They may receive the goods or conceal them, and
the wrong to the government is precisely the same, whether
the concealment is by them or by others who were not the
importers. It certainly would be most strange if the accessory to a wrongful act Were held responsible therefor when
the principal goes free. As was said in Graham v. Pocock,
the question who is liable for receiving, concealing, or buy-"
ing the shingles is d question to be determined irrespective
of the inquiry who is the principal and who the accessory.
Finally, it is argued that the act of 1823 (section 2) was
repealed by the act of July 18th, 1866, entitled "An act fur.ther to prevent smuggling, and for other purposes," the
4th section of which enacted "that if any person shall
fraudulently or knowingly import or bring into the United
States any goods, wares, or merchandise contrary to law, or
shall receive, conceal, buy, sell, or in any manner facilitate the
transportation or concealment or sale of such goods, wares,
or merchandise after their importation, knowing the samiie
to have been imported contrary to law, such goods, wares,
and merchandise shall be forfeited, and he or she shall, on
conviction thereof before any court of competent jurisdiction, be fined in any sum not exceediiig five thousand dollars
nor less than fifty dollars, or be imprisoned for any time
not exceeding two years, or both, at the discretion of such
court." The 48d section of that act enacted that all other
acts and parts of acts conflicting with or supplied by it
should be repealed. It is now insisted that the act of 1828
was in conflict with this act, or, if not, that it was supplied
by it. Very clearly, however, this is not maintainable. The
act of 1823 was, as we have seen, remedial in its nature.
Its purpose was to secure full compensation for interference
with the rights of the United States. The act of 1866 is
strictly penal, not at all remedial. It was avowedly enacted
further to. prevent smuggling. Its design, therefore, was
not to substitute new penalties which might be less onerous
than the liabilities which former acts had imposed, but to
punish as a crime that which before had subjected its perpe-

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

trator to civil liability, or quasi civil liability. Hence it is
cumulative in its character rather than substitutionary. If
it has indeed only supplied what was enacted in 1823, then
a party who conceals goods illegally imported and forfeited
to the United States is subject to no more than a fine of five
thousand dollars, with possible imprisonment, though the
goods concealed and thereby wholly lost to the government
may be worth one hundred thousand dollars, and this,
though the declared purpose of the act was more effectually
to prevent smuggling. This cannot be. There is no inconsistency between a remedy for an illegal act which works a
private wrong, securing pecuniary compensation, and a
statute making the same act a criminal offence and punishing it accordingly. Were there nothing more, then, in the
act of 1866 than the 4th and the 43d sections, we should
feel compelled to hold that the 2d section of the act of 1823
was not repealed by it. But the 18th section expressly enacted that nothing in the act shall be taken to abridge or
limit any forfeiture, penalty, fine, liability, or remedy provided for or existing under any law then in force, except as
in the act was specially provided. Certainly the act contains no special provision for the civil remedy given by the
act of 1823. It merely imposes punishment and superadds
criminality to that which before was a civil injury. It is
said the court will not construe the statutes so as to give the
executive department the option to treat two citizens who
have done the same act affecting the same cargo in such
manner that one statute may be applied to one, and a different statute to another, thus causing different consequences. But the true question is whether a wrongdoer
may not be both civilly and criminally responsible for the
same act, and it would not be strange if Congress had given
the option to sue for double values, or to prosecute for the
-crime. The British statutes against smuggling, as we have
stated, allow suits for treble value of goods illegally imported
and harbored, or prosecutions for penalties, at the election
of the government. Our opinion, then, is that the 2d seetion of the act of 1823 was not repealed by the act of 1866,

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

certainly not so as to affect this suit, brought to enforce liabilities incurred before the later act was passed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I am compelled to dissent from the judgment of the court
in this case.
I am of opinion:
1st. That the penalty of the second section of the statute
of March 3d, 1823, is superseded and repealed by the act of
July 18th, 1866;
2d. That if the penalty be not thus repealed, the provisions of the section are not applicable to importers; and,
3d. That if the penalty be in force, and the section be
applicable to importers, the court below erred in ruling
that the knowledge by the defendants required by the section to subject them to the penalty prescribed, could be conclusively presumed from the knowledge possessed by their
partner.
The second section of the statute of 1823, under which
the defendants are charged, is directed against the receiving,
the concealing, and the buying of goods illegally imported
and liable to seizure. It is not directed against anything
else. Whoever does one of these three things, knowing
that the goods have been illegally imported, and are liable
to seizure under any act relating to the revenue, is subject,
on conviction thereof, to a penalty of double the amount or
value of the goods.*
The statute of July 18th, 1866,t in its fourth section, embraces not merely the three things designated in the statute
of 1823, but several other things not thus designated in connection with the illegal importation of goods, or the disposal
of such goods; and it prescribes for each a different penalty
from that provided in the first statute. It is directed against
the fraudulent importation of goods as well as against receiving, concealing, and buying them after they are thus
* 3 Stat. at Large, 781.

-t 14 Id. 179.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

imported. It further includes what is omitted in the statute
of 1823, the selling of such goods and facilitating their
transportation, concealment, and sale. It also declares that
such goods shall be forfeited, and that every person who
does any one of the things enumerated, shall, on conviction
thereof, be subjected to a fine in a sum not exceeding five
thousand dollars, nor less than fifty dollars, or to imprisonment not exceeding two years, or to both, iii the discretion
of the court. This is not all; the statute declares that
present or past possession of the goods by the defendant
shall be sufficient evidence to authorize his conviction, unless such possession be explained to the satisfaction of the
jury.
The statute of 1866, as thus appears, is much broader in
its provisions than the statute of 1823. It supplements the
first statute by including as offences acts there omitted
though equally connected as those designated with the disposal of goods illegally imported, and by providing a rule
of evidence which renders it less difficult for the government to enforce the prescribed penalties. Had the statute
of 1866 stopped here, there would be no pretence that it
conflicts with the statute of 1823. But it does not stop
here; it goes farther and changes the punishment for the
offences designated. By the first statute, the receiving, concealing, or buying any goods by a person knowing them to
be illegally imported and liable to seizure under any revenue
act, is punishable by a forfeiture of double the value of such
goods. By the second statute, the receiving, concealing, or
buying goods after their importation, by a person knowing
them to have been imported contrary to law, is punishable
by fine and imprisonment, or both, at the discretion of the
court. In both acts the same offences are designated, for
the liability to seizure attends all illegal importation, and a
knowledge of this latter fact necessarily includes the other.
Both acts are penal; the first equally so as the last, for it
does not go for the value of the goods, or indemnification
to the government, but for the enforcement of a penalty
upon a party offending in any of the particulars mentioned.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

The very definition of a penal statute is that it is a statute
which inflicts a penalty for the violation of its provisions.
It is admitted in the opinion of the majority of the court
that the offences designated in the act might be prosecuted
by information or indictment, an admission which seems to
me to be inconsistent with the position that the act is not
penal. I have not been aware that an information or an indictment could be founded on any statute which was not
penal in its character.
Different punishments being prescribed for the same
offences by the two statutes, the latter statute must be held,
according to all the authorities, to have superseded and repealed the penalty prescribed by the first statute. Such was
the unanimous decision of this court in Norris v. Crocker,
reported in 13th Howard, a case which does not diffir from
this in any essential particular. That was an action of debt
to recover a penalty prescribed by the fourth section of the
act of Congress of 1793, respecting fugitives from justice
and persons escaping from the service of their masters. That
section declared that any person who should knowingly and
willingly obstruct or hinder the claimant, his agent, or attorney in seizing or arresting the fugitive from labor, or
should rescue him from such claimant, agent or attorney
when arrested pursuant to the authority given by the act, or
should harbor or conceal him after notice that he was a
fugitive from labor, should for each of these offences forfeit
and pay the sum of five hundred dollars, to be recovered in
an action of debt.
Pending the action brought under this section, Congress,
in 1850, passed an act amendatory of, and supplementary to,
the act of February, 1793, the seventh section of which embraced the same offences specified in thieact of 1793, and
created new offences ad prescribed as a punishment for
each offence fine and imprisonment upon indictment and
conviction of the offender; the fine not to exceed a thousand
dollars and the imprisonment not to exceed six months.
For obstructing the claimant or rescuing the fugitive, or
harboring him, the act of 1793 declared that the offender

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

should "forfeit and pay" for each offence a specified sum,
and authorized its recovery by civil action. For the same
offences of obstructing the claimant, rescuing the fugitive,
or harboring him, as well as for offences of a similar character, the act of 1850 declared that the offender should be
punished by fine and imprisonment, and that this punishment should be enforced upon indictment and conviction.
The act of'1850 contained no repealing clause in terms,
yet the court held unanimously that it was repugnant to the
act of 1793, and necessarily operated as a repeal of the
penalty of that act. That case is not distinguishable in principle from the case at bar. The act of 1793, like the act of
1823, prescribed a penalty recoverable by civil action. The
act of 1850, like the act of 1866, prescribed, for the offences
designated, fine and imprisonment enforceable by indictment.
It was urged with great force in the case of Crocker v.
Norris, on the part of the government, that the act of 1850
only added cumulative remedies, and was enacted to give
greater facilities to the master of the slave in securing the
fugitive; that it was, as its title indicated, amendatory of
and supplementary to the original act, and was designed to
carry more effectually into execution a provision of the Constitution, and it could not be supposed that Congress having
this object in view intended to repeal the act of 1793, and
wipe out liabilities incurred under that act, and thus deprive
the master of rights of action in suits then pending; but
the court thought otherwise, Mr. Justice Catron delivering
its opinion, and observing that, "as a general rule it was
not open to controversy, that where a new statute covers
the whole subject-matter of an old one, adds offences, and
prescribes different penalties for those enumerated in the
old law, that the former statute is repealed by implication,
as the provisions of both cannot stand together."
The court did not seem to think that the fact that the
penalty designated in the act of 1793 was enforced by a civil
action, and the penalty designated in the act of 1850 was
enforced by indictment, made any difference. In principle

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

the mode of enforcement could not alter the substantial and
important fact that the penalty for the same offence was
changed, and that by the change the sovereign power which
created the original law had declared that its penalties
should no longer be enforced.
If there were no other provisions of law than the two sections 'Mentioned of the acts of 1823 and 1866 before us, I
should not hesitate to repeat the language of this court in
Norris v. 0rocker, that it is not open to controversy that the
latter act repeals the penalty prescribed by the former. But
there is another provision of law which removes, as it appears to me, all possible doubt as to the intention of Congress. The forty-third section repeals several acts by name,
and also "all other acts and parts of acts conflicting with or
supplied by this act."
Now, in my judgment, it does not admit of any question
that an act, like that of 1866, which declares that certain
specified offences shall be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or both, does conflict with an act like that of 1823, which
provides that the same offences shall be punished by a forfeiture of double the value of the goods in respect to which
the offences 'are committed. And it appears to me that I
have pointed out several particulars in which omissions of
the act of 1823 are supplied by the act of 1866.
The eighteenth section of the act of 1866, which is supposed by the majority of the court to preserve the penalty
of the act of 1823, does, in my judgment, when read in connection with other provisions, have directly an opposite
effect. That section declares "that nothing in the act shall
be taken to abridge, or limit, any forfeiture, penalty, fine,
liability, or remedy provided for or existing under any law
now in force, except as herein otherwise specially provided."
This means, as I read it, that the same punishments prescribed by law then in force, without abridgment or limitation, that is in kind, and extent, and mode of enforcement,
shall continue to exist, unless for such offences other penalties and remedies are specially provided; and this is equivalent to declaring that such punishments and remedies

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

shall not continue to exist when other special provisions are
made on the subject.
But if I am mistaken in this construction, and Congress
did actually intend this strange and anomalous legislation,
that for the offences designated there should be three distinct punishments inflicted: 1st, by a forfeiture of double
the value of the goods illegally imported; 2d, by a forfeiture
of the goods themselves; and, 3d, by fine, which may go
from fifty dollars to five thousand, or by imprisonment,
which may extend to two years, or by both; then I contend
that the act of 1823 does not apply to the defendants in this
case. They were the importers of the goods f or double the
value of which they are sued; and the section applies only
to offences committed after their importation. It is directed
against the offences of receiving, concealing, or buying the
goods with knowledge of their having been illegally imported and being liable to seizure. There are numerous
other acts providing punishment for all forms of illegal importation. This act was only intended to reach those who,
after the original offence was committed, in some way aided,
with knowledge of that offence, in keeping the goods out of
the reach of the government. The language used is inappropriate and inapt to describe an act of the illegal importer. It is limited to an act done after the illegal importation. It requires knowledge of such importation, which,
as counsel observes, it would be absurd to require of the
illegal importer himself. He receives his own goods in the
act of importation, not afterwards; he cannot buy them of
himself; and if he conceals them it is only an act in execution of the original offence.
The language is appropriate to describe an offence, which
is in its nature accessorial after the fact, and counsel have
cited several instances of legislation, where similar language
has always been held applicable only to accessories after the
fact. Thus in the Crimes Act of 1790* it is enacted "that if
any person shall receive or buy any goods" stolen from
* 1 Stat. at Large, 116, sec. 17.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

559

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

another, "knowing the same to be stolen;" he shall be subjected to like punishment as in case of larceny. No one
has ever supposed that this language was applicable to the
act of the original offender. So in the General Post Office
Act of 1825* it is enacted, in the forty-fifth section, "that if
any person shall buy, receive, or conceal" any article mentioned in a previous section, "knowing the same to have
been stolen or embezzled from the mail," he shall be fined
and imprisoned. It has never been thought that the purchaser, receiver, or concealer of the stolen property, with
knowledge of the larceny, was any other than an accessory
after the fact.t
So in the act of 1825, more effectually to provide for the
punishment of certain crimes,J it is enacted that if any person upon the high seas shall "buy, receive, or conceal" any
money, goods, bank-notes, or other effects, subject to larceny,
feloniously taken, or stolen from another, "knowing the
same to have been taken or stolen," he shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished by fine and imprisonment. And the act shows, on its face, that the language was intended only for the offence of an accessory, for
it declares that the person offending may be prosecuted, although the principal offender chargeable. or charged with
the larceny shall no.t have been prosecuted or convicted.
In all these cases the receiver, the concealer, and the
buyer are accessories after the fact, and the language would
be inappropriate if applied to them in any other character;
and in the present case it would be extending, in my judgment, the construction of a penal'statute beyond all precedent to apply these terms, in the act of 1823, to the original
importers.
The act which the illegal importer is likely to do, after
the importation, is to sell the goods, but the statute of 1823
does not make the" act of selling them an offence. The
statute of 1866 does, however, remedy this defect, which is
4 Stat. at Large, 114.
t U. S. v. Crane, 4 McLean, 317; U. S. v. Keene, 6 Id. 509.
$ 4 Stat. at Large, 116, sec. 8.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

one evidence, among others, that it was intended to supply
the deficiencies of the original act, and thus supersede it.
The declaration in the case in the counts, upon which
double the value of the goods is charged, does not allege
that the defendants illegally imported the goods, but that
such importation was made by persons unknown, and that
the defendants, knowing of the illegal importation, received,
concealed, and bought them. Yet it appears that the entire
action of the court on the trial, and its instructions to the
jury, proceeded upon the supposition that the defendants
and the absent partner were the owners of the goods, and
that the defendants made the importation. It is expressly
stated in the bill of exceptions that no attempts were made
by either of the defendants, or any person connected with
them, to conceal the property imported, or in any way to
interfere with the exercise of the power of seizing it. The
case rests, therefore, entirely upon the alleged acts of receiving and buying.
If the penalty of the act of 1823 be not superseded and
repealed, and the words used in that act are susceptible of
the application made of them, I am still of opinion that the
judgment should be reversed, for the ruling of the court
below, that the knowledge of the illegal importation by the
defendants, required by the act, was to be conclusively presumed from the knowledge possessed by their partner. The
instruction of the court clearly went to this extent. After
stating hypothetically to the jury that if certain matters were
done by Leman Stockwell, the shingles sent by him from
New Brunswick to Bangbr were illegally imported, the court
instructed them as follows:
"This being a civil action, and not a criminal prosecution,
the knowledge of one of the firm on these matters in this
suit, is to be deemed the knowledge of the defendants, his
copartners in the shingle business.
"If Leman Stockwell, as a member of the firm engaged
in the shingle business, at the time of the importations and
reception of the shingles at Bangor, knew that they were
Province shingles, liable to duty and seizure, and illegally

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

561

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

imported, it is not necessary for the government to prove
that the defendants personally had actual knowledge of these
facts, which were then within the knowledge of their part-ner, Leman Stockwell."
Here the court tells the jury that the knowledge of one of
the firm, Leman Stockwell, is to be deemed the knowledge
of the defendants, and that it is not necessary for the government to prove that the defendants, personally, had actual
knowledge of the facts, which were within the knowledge
of their partner.
If this language does not amount to an instruction that
knowledge of the illegal importation by the defendants is to
be conclusively presumed from the knowledge of their partner, it is difficult to perceive what else can be made of it.
The ruling of the court in this respect goes against all
-notions which I have hitherto entertained of the law on the
subject of imputed guilty knowledge, and my sense of justice
revolts against its application. I cannot reconcile to either
law or justice the doctrine that a person can be charged and
punished for knowingly doing a thing of which he never
had any actual knowledge; and that in a proceeding to
enforce penalties imposed for knowingly doing a thing
charged, the knowledge, which is an essential ingredient
of the offence, can be conclusively imputed to him from its
possession by another.
The claim in question, it is to be remembered, is not
made for the forfeiture of the goods; that would follow
fr'om the act of illegal importation, without reference to the
parties engaged. Neither is it made for the duties, for the
right to them accrues to the government upon the importation. The claim is not for indemnificationi but for penalties
prescribed.
The principle upon which partners are made liable for the
acts of each other is that each partner is the general agent of
the partnership in all matters within the scope and objects
of the partnership business. The liability and the limitations
upon the liability are measured by the nature of the business
of the partnership. The acts of one partner beyond. that
VOL. XIIL

36.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

business will not bind the firm, for his agency goes not to
that extent.
Nor will any act of a partner, done in violation of law,
bind his partners unless they originally authorized or subsequently adopted it. Such authorization and adoption are
not matters to be presumed from the relationship of the
partners to each other, but are to be proved like any other
matters done outside of the scope of the partnership business, for which liability is sought to be fastened on the firm.
It will often happen, owing to the position of the parties,
the nature of the business, and the character of the act, that
this authorization or adoption will be inferred from very
slight additional circumstances. Thus in some cases it
might be inferred that the importation of goods by one
partner, without payment of the duties thereon, was approved by the other partners from the management taken"
by each partner in the affairs of the firm, and the knowledge
which such management must give of the payments made
and goods received. A jury might sometimes even be justifled in inferring authority or approval of the other partners
from their silence. But very different evidence would be
required if, when one partner made the importation, the
other was absent from the country or was a silent partner,
taking no part in the management of the affairs of the firm.
In the present case the importation of the shingles by the
defendants might have been consistent with entire ignorance
that they were the product of New Brunswick, and therefore
subject to duties. It does not appear that there was anything in their shape or character which would inform the
defendants of their foreign origin, or anything which would
excite the suspicions, even, of the defendants on the subject.
They were brought to Bangor accompanied by the proper
documentary evidence that they were of American origin.
Leman Stockwell, who was engaged in purchasing shingles in Maine and New Brunswick, was entitled to half the
profits of the partnership, and the illegal transaction may
have originated with him, to enlarge his share of the profits,
and all knowledge that the shingles were of foreign origin

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

563

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

may have been concealed by him from the defendants. Many
motives may be suggested for such concealment. His designs may have been frustrated or endangered by communicating them to his partners. Be this, however, as it may,
certain it is that such knowledge by them cannot be presumed from the naked fact of their partnership with him.
Presumptions are conclusions which the law-draws from a
particular state of facts, and the law does not draw from the
mere fact of partnership the conclusion that one partner -approves or is cognizant of the illegal acts of the other, but,
on the contrary, the presumption of innocence, which every
one may invoke for his protection when accused, repels such
conclusion. The doctrine of imputed knowledge, and consequently of imputed guilt in such cases, finds no support in
principle or authority. The adjudged cases all speakanother
language without a.dissentient voice. Even the case of Regina v. Dean,* cited in the opinion of the majority, does not
militate against this view. That was an information for penalties for unshipping goods without payment of duties, knowingly harboring them, and removing them from a place of

security. Under a practice of the custom-house the goods had
been received without payment of the duties, an entry of the
contents of the cases containing the goods having been made
in a book kept for that purpose by the officers of the customs. A clerk of the defendant had removed the leaves in
the book containing the entry and substituted other leaves
containing false entries of the goods. There was no direct
Ievidence that the defendant had been previously concerned
in tampering with the book, nor was knowledge of the fraud
brought directly home to him; but it appeared that he had,
or must have, derived benefit from the fraudulent transaction. Under these circumstances the court told the jury that
as the defendant had derived a benefit from the fraud, they
might infer knowledge of the fraud on his part. On motion
for a new trial, Baron Alderson, one of the judges, said:
"I think there was evidence for the jury of the defendant's being acquainted with this fraud.
* 12 Mieeson & Welsby, 39.

STOCKWELL V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

"Ie obtained possession of goods for which less than the
proper duty appeared to have been paid. If that were not
so, it was incumbent on him to show that he paid the full
amount of duty. He must have had books to show the price
of the goods, and the amount of duties payable in respect of
them; and, those books he does not produce. He derives
benefit from the fraud, and therefore the jury were warranted, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, in inferring that he had a knowledge of it."
It is not perceived that this case, where the question of
knowledge was left to the jury, can give support to the ruling in the case at bar, which was substantially, as I understand it, that know] edge must be conclusively presumed from
the fact of copartnership.
The case of Graham v. Pocoek, recently decided by the
Privy Council in England, is not without bearing upon this
case, for it decides that one partner cannot be subjected to
a penalty for an illegal entry by his partner of goods belonging to the partnership where he did not himself personally participate in such entry.* The report shows that
appeals were taken from judgments in two actions brought
upon an ordinance of the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope.
That ordinance provided that no goods should be unladen
from a ship in that colony until entry was made of the goods
and warrants were granted for their unloading; that the
person entering the goods should deliver to the collector a
bill of entry containing, among other things, the particulars
of the quality and quantity of the goods; and that any goods
taken or delivered from a ship, by virtue of an entry or warrant not properly describing them, should be forfeited. The
fiftieth section of the ordinance further provided that every
person who should assist, or be otherwise concerned, in the
unshipping, landing, or removal, or the harboring of such
goods, should be liable to a penalty of treble the value thereof,
or to a penalty of a hundred pounds, at the election of the
officers of the customs. The first action was brought for
* Law Reports, 3 P. R. 0. 345.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

the forfeiture of goods imported by the respondents; the
second action was brought for the penalty of treble the value
of the goods under the fiftieth section. The facts of the cases
were these: The respondents, Pocock and Matthew, were
partners, doing business at Cape Town, in the Colony of
Good Hope. Pocock, whilst in England, shipped to his
partner at Cape Town twenty-five packages of glassware
and three carriages. In the carriages a large number of
corks were packed, which were liable to duty. When the
goods arrived at Cape Town, the respondent, Matthew,
made an entry for the landing of the glassware and carriages, in which no mention was made of the corks. For
this defect in the entry the whole shipment was seized.
The Supreme Court of the colony decreed a forfeiture of
the carriages, but gave judgment for the respondents in the
action for the penalty. On appeal to the Privy Council it
was contended, in the second' case, that the respondent,
Matthew, who made the entry, was liable to the penalty of
treble the value of the goods, and that Pocock, who was in
England at the time, was answerable for his partner's acts;
but the court held that Matthew was liable for the penalty,
and that Pocock, his partner, was not liable; Lord Cairnes,
who delivered the opinion of the court, did not seem to
think that the liability of Pocock was a matter to be considered, he not having participated in the actual entry. "I
may put out of the case," he said, "the first respondent,
Pocock, for it was admitted that there was no case of personal culpability against him." Personal, not imputed, culpability was here considered essential to a recovery by the
crown.
It will be found on exalmination of the authorities that in
all cases where a principal or partner has been held liable,
penally or criminally, for the act of his agent or partner, the
act was originally authorized or assented to, or subsequently
adopted. The question in such cases has always been as to
the effect of certain acts or employment as evidence of authorization, assent, or adoption, and it has always been held
a matter for the jury.

STOCKWELL V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

The cases of Rex v. Almon* and Attorney-General v. Siddon,t usually cited against this position, are consistent with
it. In the first case, a bookseller was proceeded against for
a libel sold in his bookstore by his servant in the course of
his employment, and Lord Mansfield held that the relation
of the defendant to the act of sale was prind? facie evidence
to establish his liability, but that he might avoid it by showing that "he was not privy nor assenting to it nor encouraging it." Here such was the nature of the employment as
to imply prirn facie authorization of the sale and consequent
publication of the libel by the master.
In the second case, a trader was held liable to a penalty
for the illegal act of his servant done in conducting his business with a view to protect smuggled goods, although absent
at the time. The case was an information for penalties, the
second count of which charged that the defendant had harbored and concealed property upon which duties had not
been paid. The court placed great reliance upon the fact
that the possession of the property without explanation was
primod facie evidence to warrant conviction, and that the
special circumstances detailed in connection with the transaction and the employment of the servant presented a plima
facie case of authorization by the master.
There are numerous cases where a principal or partner
will be held liable for the fraud of an agent or partner
although entirely ignorant of the fraud, as where goods are
obtained by false and fraudulent representation; but the
liability in such cases proceeds upon the ground that the
title to the property in fict never passed to principal or
partnership.1
So a principal or partner will sometimes be held liable for
the fraud of the agent or partner, which was not authorized,
where the fruits of the fraud are retained; but the liability
in these cases proceeds upon the ground that one cannot
5 Burrow, 2686.

t 1 Crompton & .Jervis, 220.

+ Kilby v. Wilson, 1 Ryan & Moody, 178; Irving v. Motly, 7 Bingham
543; Root v. French, 13 Wendell, 570; Cary v. ilotailing, 1 Hill, 311.

Dec. 1871.]

STOCKWELL V. UNITED STATES.

567

Opinion of Field, J., dissenting.

claim immunity by reason of the fraud, and, at the same
time, enjoy the benefits of the transaction. These cases
properly fall under the head of implied adoption of the act
of the agent or partner.*
So, sometimes, a principal or partner will be held liable
where an agent or partner is allowed to exhibit an apparent
authority which he does not possess, and, in consequence,
fmraudulently obtains the property or services of third parties;
but the liability in such cases proceeds upon the principle
that where one of two innocent parties must suffer, the party
who, by his acts, clothes the agent with the apparent authority, and thus enables him to commit the fraud, ought to
suffer.t
In all these cases the principals or partners are held liable
only to make good the loss occasioned by the fraudulent act
of the agent or partner. The rule which governs these cases
has no application to an action for penalties, which goes not,
as already stated, for compensation or indemnification, but
for punishment. Where penalties which are punitive, and
not mere liquidated damages, are concerned, there must, in
all cases, be personal culpability arising from original authorization of the fraudulent act, or assent to it, or its subsequent adoption with knowledge. This principle is of the
highest importance, and its conservation is essential to a just
administration of the law. As this principle was disregarded
in the trial of this case in the court below, I think the judgment should, on that account, as well as for the other reasons stated, be reversed and the cause remanded for a new
trial.
Mr. Justice MILLER concurred in the foregoing opinion
on the ground that the statute of 1823 was repealed by that
of 1866, and on the point that the act of 1823, when in
* Bennett v. Judson, 21 New York, 238; Veazie v. Williams, 8 Howard,
134, 137.
t Locke v. Stearns, 1 Metcalf, 560; Story on Partnership, sec. 108; Story
on Agency, 443; Hem v. :Nichols, 1 Salkeld, 289.

568

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the cases.

force, was not applicable to fraudulent importers. He
stated that he expressed no opinion as to the instructions
imputing knowledge of the guilty partner to the others.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY concurred generally; dissenting
from the opinion of the court, on all the points taken in it.

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Under the joint resolution of February 28th, 1867, increasing by 20 per cent.
the pay of employ~s in the Department of the Interior, &c., and in
the office of the Capitol and Treasury Extension and Commissioner of
Public Buildings, neither a commission nor a warra'at of appointment
is necessary to entitle an employ6 to the benefit of the provision under
consideration, provided he was actually and properly employed in the
office of the Capitol or Treasury Extension, or in the office of the Commissioner of Public Buildings, if it appears that he is one of the persons
or class of persons described in the joint resolution. Persons so employed are properly in the service if they were employed by the head
of the department, or of the bureau, or any division of the department
charged with that duty and authorized to make such contracts and fix
the compensation of the person employed, even though the particular
employment may not be designated in any appropriation act.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
A joint resolution of Congress of February 28th, 1867,*
provided:
APPEAL

"That there shall be allowed and paid to the following described persons [whose salaries do not exceed $3500] now employed in the civil service of the United States, at Washington,
as follows: To civil officers and temporary and all other clerks,
messengers, and watchmen, including enlisted men detailed as
such, to be computed upon the gross amount of the compensation received by them, and employ4s male and female, in the
Executive Mansion, and in any of the following-named departments, or any bureau or division thereof, to wit: State, Treasury,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

0

