UNITED STATES. V. KIMBAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

UNITED STATES V. KIMBAL.
1. A marginal note put by the Quartermaster's Department on bills of lading
of vessels chartered by them, "that if on the arrival of the vessel at the port
of destination the consignee should order her toanother place to discharge, such
order in all cases to be in writing on the bill of lading," does not make a
part of the contract entered into by the vessel ; and if her port of destination be plainly expressed in the body of the bill, the consignee cannot, in virtue of the marginal memorandum, order her to go forward to
another port.
2. The jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to pass upon claims against the
United States, growing out of the destruction or appropriation of property by the army or navy engaged in the suppression of the rebellion,
which jurisdiction was taken away by act of July 4th, 1864, was not
restored even as to steamboats by the joint resolution of 23d December,
1869, relating to the mode of settling for them when impressed into the
service of the United States during the rebellion.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:

An act of March 3d, 1849,* enacts that any person who
shall sustain damage by the abandonment or destruction by
order of the commanding general, quartermaster, of any
horse, &c., while such property was in the service of the
United States, either by impressment or contract . .

.

.shall

be allowed and paid the value thereof, at the time he entered
the service. "The claims provided for under this act," continues the statute, "shall be adjusted by the Third Auditor,
under such rules as shall be prescribed by the Secretary of
War," &c.
A subsequent actt (March 3d, 1863), extends these provisions so as to include all "steam boats and other vessels."
Between the dates of these two acts, that is to say, in A.D.
1855,1 Congress constituted the Court of Claims, and by the
act constituting it, made it its duty to hear and determine
"All claims founded upon any law of Congress, or upon any
regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract,
express or implied, with the government of the United States."
A subsequent act, however, that of July 4th, 1864,ยง some* 9 Stat. at Large, 415.

: 10 Stat. at Large, 612.

t 12 Id. 743.
13 Id. 381.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. XLIMBAL.

Statement of the case.

what limited this jurisdiction; declaring by its first section
that it should
"Not extend to nor include any claim against the United
States growing out of the destruction or appropriation of, or
damage to, any property, by the army or navy, or any part of
the army or navy, engaged in the suppression of the rebellion,
from the commencement to the close thereof."
The second and third sections of the last-mentioned act
provide that the claims of loyal citizens in loyal States for
quartermaster's stores, and for subsistence furnished to the
arniy, shall be submitted to the Quartermaster-General and
the Commissary-General of Subsistence, and if found just,
shall be reported to the Third Auditor of the Treasury with
a recommendation for settlement.
After this came an act of February 21st, 1867,* which
enacted that the provisions of the act of 1864 should
"Not be construed to authorize the settlement of any claim for
supplies taken or furnished for the use of the armies of the
United States, nor for the occupation of or injury to real estate,
nor for the appropriation or destruction of or damage to personal property, by the military authorities or troops of the
United States, where such claim originated during the war for
the suppression of the Southern rebellion, in a State or part of
a State declared in insurrection."
Finally, came a joint resolution of Congress, passed the23d of December, 1869,t resolving that the act of 1867 shall
not be so construed as
"1
To debar the settlement of claims for steamboats or other vessels, taken without the consent of the owner or impressed into
the military service of the United States during the late war,
in States or parts of States declared in insurrection, provided
the claimants were loyal at the time their claims originated, and
remained loyal thereafter, and were residents of loyal States,
and such steamboats or other vessels were in the insurrectionary
districts by proper authority."
As to the matter of loyalty, it was agreed in writing by
* 14 Star. at Large, 397.

t16 Id. 368.

UNITED STATES V. KIMBAL.I

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the counsel on both sides, that the defendant "had at all
times borne true allegiance to the government of the United
States, and had not in any way voluntarily aided, abetted,
or given encouragement to rebellion against said government, and that proof of such fact was duly made upon trial
in the Court of Claims, and might be regarded as of record
in the findings now for hearing before the Supreme Court of
the United States."
In the state of the statutes above set forth, and of the
Court of Claims' jurisdiction under them, the military authorities of the United States chartered the bark Annie
Kimbal, on the 18th of April, 1865, to carry a cargo of 1061
tons of coal from Philadelphia to Port Royal, S. C. By the
terms of the bill of lading the coal was to be delivered to
the quartermaster or his assignee. Freight was payable at
the rate of $6.25 per ton, and demurrage $100 per day, allowing 21 days for discharging. In the margin of the hill were
these two memoranda:
"If on the arrivalof this vessel at the port of destination, the consignee should order her to anotherplace to discharge,such order in all
cases to be in writing on the bill of lading.
" Freight and demurrage payable only on certificate of quartermaster that the cargo has been received in good order."
The marginal note, above italicized, on the bill of lading,
was a printed direction placed by the Quartermaster's Department, intended for the convenience of the department,
and as a direction to the officers thereof. There was no express evidence as to the intention of the parties concerning
it; but such marginal note was placed on bills of lading by
the United States officers in the Quartermaster's Department, and did not form a part of the body of the instrument
as did certain other formal clauses and conditions.
The bark arrived at Port Royal with her freight on the
4th May, 1865, and immediately tendered it to the consignee, the quartermaster of the United States. The quartermaster, on the 6th of May, refused to receive the same,
and ordered the master of the bark to proceed with it to

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KIMBAL.

Statement of the case.

Key West, and report to the quartermaster .at that port,
which additional service the master of the bark refused to
perform, and notified to the quartermaster that the owners
would hold the United States liable for all damages if such
service was enforced. On the 8th May the master was compelled to undertake the additional voyage, and received notice from the quartermaster that in case of refusal he would
be taken from the vessel and another master be substituted
and sent in command of the vessel. The master then protested at being compelled to sail at the time specified by the
quartermaster for the reason that it was not safe, as the tide
had ebbed about two hours, and there would not be water
enough on the bar to take the vessel safely over. The delay
requested was refused, and the vessel was taken in tow by a
government tug. She struck violently on the bar off Port
Royal by reason of the low water, it being near the ebb, and
sprang aleak. Being severely injured, she was towed back
and beached to prevent her from foundering.
After the injury to the vessel, she was detained by the
defendants' delay in discharging her freight at Port Royal
until the 24th of June, 1865, the detention being owing to
no fault of the master or crew. The vessel was then further
detained at Port Royal by her injuries received as aforesaid,
from and including the 25th June until the 11th July. She
was then towved by the agents of the United States to Boston, which port she reached on the 18th July, 1865, when
her crew were discharged. The damages suffered by the
claimants for the loss of their vessel's service and her expenses was the sum of $100 per day, making the sum of
$5300; that is to say:
30 days (from 24th May, when the 21 lay days expired, to
24th June, when she was formally discharged), 30 days at
$8000
$100,
23 days (from June 25th to when the discharge was completed till July 18th, when the vessel reached Boston), 23
2300
days at $100,
$5300

The claimants paid $7604.41 for the repairs of the bark at

UNITED STATES V. K"MBAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Boston, and this amount was expended strictly in making
good the vessel's injuries.
The United States paid to the claimants the amount due
for the freight, but they refused to pay the demurrage up to
the 24th June, caused by their delay in discharging the
cargo, and the further demurrage caused by their impressment of the vessel up to the 18th July, 1865, when she
arrived at Boston, and they also refused to pay the $7604.41
paid by the claimants in the necessary repairs of the vessel.
The certificate of the quartermaster showed that the cargo
had been received in good order.
Upon these facts the court decided as conclusions of law:
1st. That the bill of lading on which the action was brought
constituted a valid contract of affreightment for the transportation of goods and merchandise from Philadelphia to
Port Royal, and that the marginal note thereon, expressing
no consideration for further services, imposed no obligation upon the owners to transport the goods to any other
port, except with their consent, and upon a rate to be agreed
upon.
2d. That for the demurrage caused by the defendants in
not discharging their freight within twenty-one days after
the vessel's arriving at Port Royal, that is to say, by the
25th May, the claimants should recover demurrage until the
freight was discharged on the 24th June, at the, rate agreed
upon in the bill of lading, to wit, $100 per day, or $3000.
3d. That the enforced service of the vessel, while remaining in the possession of her master and crew, was not an
"appropriation" of the claimants' property by the army of
the United States within the meaning of the act July 4th,
1864, but that it was an impressment of their vessel and
crew's service within the meaning of the acts 3d March,
1849, and 3d March, 1863, and of the joint resolution 23d
December, 1869, and that the claimants were entitled to recover the value of their vessel's services and expenses from
the 25th June to the 18th July, 1865 ($2300), and their costs
and expenditures ($7604.41) in repairing and making whole
her injuries.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. KIMBAL.

Argument for the United States.

The Court of Claims thus decreed:
$5,300 00
7,604 41

Demurrage of both kinds,
Repairs,.
.

Whole amount of decree,

$12,904 41

From this decree the United States appealed.
Mr. B. . Bristow, Solicitor-General, and Mir. C. HI. Hill,
Assistant Attorney- General,for the United State.9, appellant:
1. The court erred in deciding that the marginal memorandum was no part of the contract. The bill of lading and
the memorandum must be construed together. The marginal clause was not merely a direction to the government
officers .at Port Royal, but, like the memorandum or marginal clause in a policy of insurance, was a part of the contract entered into between the parties, and by it the master
was required to proceed to Key West, when directed so to
do by the quartermaster at Port Royal.*
If this be so, then it is evident that the delay in getting
away from Port Royal for Key West was owing to the fault
of the master. But, however this might be, the stranding
of the bark when going over the bar was a peril of the sea,
and the consequent injury is one which must be borne by
the owners of the vessel and not by the government.t
But if the contract of affreightment did not require the
master to proceed, when ordered from Port Royal to Key
West, and there discharge his cargo, it follows either that
the action of the government officers in requiring this duty
of him was tortious, in which case no action can be maintained against the government in the Court of Claims for
the consequence thereof, or else it was an appropriation of
the vessel for the military service of the government, within
the meaning of the act of July 4th, 1864, and, therefore, is
a case expressly taken out of the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims thereby. In neither case can the consequences of
ordering the vessel to sea be considered as damages arising
from a breach of contract by the government.
* Barnard v. Cushing, 4 Metcalf, 230.
t Reed v. United States, 11 Wallace, 591..
VOL. XIIL

41

UNITED STATES V. IKIAIBAL.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the case in the opinion.

Messrs. Chipman, Peck, and Durant, contra:
1. The marginal memorandum was not a part of the contract. It was a mere direction to the Federal officers by
their superiors and was meant for cases where the right existed. The whole of the contract was in the body of the
instrument.
2. It has been considered by persons competent to form
an opinion that this joint resolution, of December 23d, 1869,
restored the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims in a case like
the present, which comes fully within the terms of the proviso; and in support of this view we submit that as the acts
of February 19th, 1867, and July 4th, 1864, are referred to in
general terms by the joint resolution of December 23.d, 1869,
the latter embraces the whole of the former. Now the first
section of the act of July 4th, 1864, prohibited the Court of
Claims from settling by judgment the whole of a certain
class of claims, while the joint resolution declares said act
shall not debar the settlement of certain individual claims of
that class; and this claim is one of those individuals; therefore the Court of Claims is not debarred from settling it.
If all this is so, the decree was plainly right, as the loyalty
of the claimant is fully admitted, and indeed was open to
no question whatever.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 18th of April, 1865, the United States contracted
with the bark Annie Kimbal to convey a cargo of anthracite steamer coal from Philadelphia to Port Royal, in South
Carolina. The United States agreed to pay freightage "at
the rate of $6.25 per ton, and demurrage $100 per day,
allowing 21 days for discharging." In the margin of the
bill of lading was the following memorandum: "Freight
and demurrage payable only on the certificate of quartermaster that the cargo has been received in good order."
The vessel arrived at Port Royal on the 4th of May, 1865.
The master immediately tendered the delivery of the cargo
to the quartermaster, who was the consignee. He refused
to receive it, and ordered the master to proceed with the

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES 'V. KIMBAL.

Opinion of the court.

vessel and cargo to Key West. This the master refused to
do, and notified the quartermaster that the owners would
hold the United States responsible for damages if the order
was enforced. The master protested against being compelled
to sail immediately, upon the ground that the state of the
tide would render his departure then unsafe. Permission to
delay was refused. The vessel was towed by a government
tug. She struck violently on a bar off Port Royal, was
severely injured, and sprung aleak. She was towed back
and beached to prevent her from foundering. She was detained at Port Royal, by the delay of the authorities of the
United States in discharging her cargo, until the 24th of
June. The quartermaster certified that the cargo was received in good order, and that the detention of the vessel
was owing to no fault of the master or crew. The vessel
was unavoidably further detained at Port Royal until the
11th of July. She then left, a government tug towing her,
for Boston, where she arrived on the 18th of that month.
Her crew were thereupon discharged.
The twenty-one days specified in the contract for the delivery of the cargo expired on the 24th of May. The Court
of Claims found that the damages which the appellees had
sustained by the loss of the vessel's service, and her expenses,
was $100 per day, making an aggregate of $5300, and that
they had expended at Boston, in repairing the injuries to
the vessel, the sum of $7604.41.
Before the commencement of this suit the United States
paid the amount due, according to the terms of the contract,
for freight, but refused to pay anything more.
The Court of Claims held that the appellees were entitled
to recover the sums above mentioned, making an aggregate
of $12,904.41, and gave judgment accordingly.
So far as the thirty days' demurrage, extending from the
24th of May to the 25th of June, is concerned, the judgment
is clearly correct. The certificate of the quartermaster brings
the case within the terms of the contract. The appellees
were as much entitled to this compensation as to the amount

-UNITED STATES V.

KIMBAL.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

stipulated to be paid for freight. The right to both rests
upon the same foundation, and the appellants might as well
have refused to pay the latter as the former. This item
amounted to the sum of $3000.
The allowance of the residue of the damages, and of the
amount expended for repairs, involves other considerations,
and requires a separate examination.
The order to the master to proceed to Key West was certainly not authorized by the contract. That imposed no
such obligation. No rate of freight for this voyage had been
agreed upon, and no such stipulation had been entered into.
The contract expired upon the delivery of the cargo at Port
Royal. It is silent as to anything further. It may be safely
assumed that nothing beyond this was in the contemplation
of either party when the vessel left Philadelphia. The Court
of Claims held that the conduct of the quartermaster was
not an appropriation, but the impressment of the vessel.
The duress, the vis major, the resistance of the master, and
his compulsory obedience, are clearly developed in the findings of fhe record. We think the view of the court below
upon this subject was the proper one; but did that entitle
the appellee to recover for the damages and repairs here
under consideration ?
The first section of the act of July 4th, 1864, declares that
the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims shall not extend to
"any claim against the United States growing out of the
destruction or appropriation 'of, or damage to, any property,
by the army or navy, or any part of the army or navy, engaged in the suppression of the rebellion, from the commencement to the close thereof." The second and third
sections provide for the adjustment and payment, through
the Quartermaster-General, the Commissary-General, and
the Third Auditor of the Treasury, of all claims of loyal
citizens in States not in rebellion, for quartermaster stores
and subsistence furnished to the army.*
The act of February 21st, 1867,t declares that the act of
* 13 Stat. at Large, 881.

t 14 Id. 397.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V.

RIMBAL.

Opinion of the court.

1864 shall not be construed to authorize the settlement of
any claim for supplies taken or furnished for the use of the
armies of the United States, nor for the occupation of or
injury to, real estate, nor for the appropriation or destruction of, or damage to, personal property, by the military authorities or troops of the United States, "where such claim
originated during the war for the suppression of the Southern
rebellion, in a State or part of a State declared in insurrection."
The resolution of the 28d of December, 1869,* provides
that the act of 1867 shall not be so construed as "to debar
the settlement of claims for steamboats or other vessels,
taken without the consent of the owner or impressed into
the military service of the United States during the late
war, in States or parts of States declared in insurrection,
provided the claimants were loyal at the time their claims
originated, and remained loyal thereafter, and were residents
of loyal States, and such steamboats or other vessels were in
the insurrectionary districts by proper authority."
The act of 1864 took away the jurisdiction of the Court of
Claims as to all the cases there specified. The act of 1867
forbade the payment of the claims which it described, while
the resolution permitted the settlement of those within the
category which it laid down and the qualifications prescribed
in the proviso. The resolution refers expressly to the act of
1867, and that act to the act of 1864. They are in pari materiO, constitute a common context, and must be construed
together. This case, in the aspect of it we are considering,
is clearly within the body of the resolution. Whether it is
also within the requirements of the proviso is not disclosed
by the findings in the record. They are silent upon that
subject. If the appellees can bring themselves within both
they will be entitled to be paid, but not, we think, by the
instrumentality of the Court of Claims.
The purpose of the resolution, obviously, was not to enlarge or restore the jurisdiction of that court, but to remove
the bar which the act of 1867 had been held to create. That
* 16 Stat. at Large, 368.

646

WHITE V. HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

bar affected not the court, but the officer of the army and of
the treasury, whose duty it would otherwise have been to,
adjust and liquidate such demands. When the restriction
was removed the jurisdiction and authority of those officers,
and not of the court, was revived. The phrase "1settlernent,"
used in the resolution, has reference to executive and not tojudicial action. The context of the two acts and the resolution point clearly to, this construction of the latter. The
remedy of the appellees, if they are entitled to any, must be
sought at the hands of the executive or legislative department of the government. The jAdicial department is incompetent to give it.
In our opinion, the Court of Claims erred in taking jurisdiction of either of the claims outside of the contract. The
United Slates v. Bussell* is. clearly distinguished by its coutrolling facts from the present case. It is not intended, to
impugn anything said by the court in that case.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

WHITE V. HART.
3. The Constitution adopted by Georgia, A.D. 1868, by which it was pro'vided that "no court or officer shall have, nor shall the General Assembly give,
jurisdiction to try, or give judgment on, or enforce any debt, the consideration
of which was a slave, or the hire thereof," is to be regarded by the court as
voluntarily adopted by the State named, and not as adopted under any
dictation and coercion of Congress. Congress having received and recognized the said Constitution as the voluntary and valid offering of thp.
State of Georgia, this court is concluded by sucb action of the political
department of the government.
2. At no time during the rebellion were the rebellious States out of the pale
of the Union.

Their conhtitutional duties and obligations remained

unaffected by the rebellion. They could not then pass a law impairing
the obligation of a contract more than before the rebellion, or now,
since.
* Supra, p. 623.

