Dec. 1871.]

RALEIGH AND GASTON RAILROAD Co. V. REID.

269

Statement and arguments.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was adjudged
another, from the same court, the two cases being of kindred
character, and alike in their essential features, the difference
between the two consisting chiefly in the extent of the exemption It was the case of
THE RALEIGH AND GASTON RAILROAD CO. V. REID, SHERIFF.
The principle of the preceding case affirmed in a case where the exemption

from taxation was limited to a term of years, and where the dividends
did not exceed a certain sum.

In the case just above adjudged and reported, the property
of the railroad company could not by its charter be taxed under
any circumstances. In the case of the charter of the railroad
company now under consideration the exemption was limited
to a term of fifteen years. After this limitation expired the
legislature was at liberty to tax the individual shares of the
stockholders whenever their annual profits exceeded 8 per cent.,
,provided that the tax did not exceed twenty-five cents a share
per annum. The pleadings in the case showed that the annual
profits on the shares never reached 8 per cent..

.Messrs. Carlisle, fcPherson, and B. F.
inerror:

oore, for the plaintiff

It is laid down in Lord Hobarts Reports* that affirmatives in
statutes that introduce a new rule imply a negative of all else.
Father Plowdent equally declares that when a statute limits a
thing to be done in a particular mode, it includes a negative of
any other mode.
The tax is in violation of rules thus anciently and authoritatively laid down; rules conformed to obvious sense and justice.

.Mr. W. R7. Battle, contra, argued that such exemptions were
so grossly impolitic that they could not be considered as legitimate exercise of legislative power.
* Slade a. Drakce, 298.

t Stradling v. Morgan, 206 b.

RAILWAY COMPANY V. WHITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The only way in which the property of this company could
be reached for taxation at all was after the limitation of the
fifteen years had expired. The legislature was then at liberty
to tax the individual shares of the stockholders, whenever their
annual profits exceeded 8 per cent. When a statute limits a
thing to be done in a particular mode, it includes a negative of
any other mode. It was the manifest object of the legislation
which incorporated this company to invite the investment of
capital in the enterprise of building this road; and no means
better adapted for the purpose could have been devised, short
of total immunity from taxation. As long as the capital was
unproductive it contributed nothing to the support of the government, and even after it became remunerative, its contribution was fixed by the terms of the charter, and could not. in
any event, exceed twenty-five cents on the share of stock. The
impolicy of this legislation is apparent, but there is no relief to
the State, for the rights secured by the contract are protected
from invasion by the Constitution of the United States.
As the pleadings show that the annual profits on the shares
of stock have never reached 8 per cent., it follows that they
were not subject to any public charge or tax.
JUDGINENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded for further pro-

ceedings,
IN

CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

RAILWAY COMPANY V. WHITTON'S ADMINISTRATOR.
I. Although a corporation, being an artificial body created by legislative
power, is not a citizen, within several provisions of the Constitution:
yet where rights of action are to be enforced by or against a corpora.
tion, it will be considered as a citizen of the State where it was created
within the clause extending the judicial power of the United States to
controversies between citizens of different States.
2. Where a corporation is created by the laws of a State, it is, in suit
brought in a Federal court in that State, to be considered as a citize:
of such State, whatever its status or citizenship may be elsewhere by th
legislation of other States.

