Dec. 1871.]

TUCKER V. SPALDING.
Statement of the case.

concerned, yet they effected no change in the mode of disposing of the public lands, nor was the colonization policy
of 1824, at all altered by them, for they expressly declare
that "in alienations of lands, the existing laws will be observed and what the colonization laws determine."
In any aspect of this case, the claim for this large tract of
land has no foundation to rest upon. The Departmental
Assembly, aided in a certain sense by the governor, usurped
the prerogative of the supreme government, and no ingenuity of reasoning can sanction a proceeding, which was not
only without authority of law, but contrary to the forms
prescribed by it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
below, with directions to enter a decree
DIsmissING THE PETITION.

TUCKER v. SPALDING.
1. In an action at law, where a patent of prior date is offered in evidence as
covering the invention described in the plaintifPs patent, on a charge
of infringement, the question of the identity of the two instruments or
machines, must be left to the jury, if there is so much resemblance as
raises the questidn at all..
2. It is no ground for rejecting the prior patent that it does not profess to
do the same things that the second patent does.
3. If what it performs is essentially the same, and its structure and action
suggest to the mind of an ordinarily skilful mechanic its adaptation
to the same use as the second patent, by the same means, this adaptation
is not a new invention, and is not patentable.

to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
Spalding brought an action at law against Tucker, to recovet damages for the infringement of a patent for the use
of movable teeth in saws and saw-plates.
The plaintiff's patent claimed the forming of recesses or
sockets in saws or saw-plates for detachable or removable
ERROR

TUCKER V. SPALDING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

teeth on circular lines, and in combination with these recesses, teeth having their base or bottom parts formed on
circular lines as described.
The defendant offered in evidence as covering the subjectmatter of the plaintiff's patent a patent to Jonah Newton,
confessedly prior in date and invention to that of plaintiff
This patent of Newton's had cutters of the same general
shape and form, including circular base, as the saw-teeth of
the other patent, attachable to a circular disk, and removable
as in the other, but attached by screws or nuts, and the claim
or purpose of the Arewton patent was for cutting tongues and
grooves, mortices, -c. In connection with the offer of the
patent to Newton, the defendant offered to prove by experts
that the process of Newton's patent, and of the machine
made thereunder, and of the result produced thereby, were
the same process, machine, and result as were involved in
the patent of the plaintiff; that saws were made under Newton's patent, and were in practical operation (the exhibition
of the saws so made and operated being also offered); that
the machine made under Newton's patent rotated in precisely the same manner and with the same effect as a circular
saw, and that what in Newton's patent were designated
"cutters," performed the same functions as the detachable
teeth, described in the plaintiff's patent, and accomplished
the same result; and that the said " cutters" were nothing
in reality but detachable saw-teeth, inserted on circular
lines, and rounded at the base and inserted in circular
sockets, and secured an equal distribution of the pressure
on the said " cutters," over and upon the circular sockets in
which they were set, and thus prevented fracture of the disk
or plate.
The court refused to admit the patent to Newton in evidence. Verdict and judgment were rendered accordingly
for the plaintiff, Spalding, and the other party brought the
case here on error, assigning several errors in the rejection
of evidence and in the charge of the court. The cardinal
point of the case, however, was the refusal of the court to
permit the Newton patent to be read to the jury; the bills

Dec. 1871.]

DTUCKER V. SPALDING.
Opinion of the court.

of exception including, however, the rejection of the testimony of experts, to prove the identity of the invention described in the lewton patent with that of the plaintiff.
Mr. W. . Witter, for the plaintiff in error (a brief of Mr.
George Gifford beingfiled), argued that the evidence rejected
ought to have been submitted to the jury; and went also
into a full exhibition of diagrams and models to show that
the two inventions were in truth the same.
.Messrs. 21. A. Wheaton and J. .. -Coombs, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the court erred in refusing to
admit the patent to Newton, confessedly prior in date and
invention to that of the plaintiff, which the defendant offered
as covering the subject-matter of the plaintiff's patent.
Whatever may be our personal opinions of the fitness of
the jury as a tribunal to determine the diversity or identity
in principle of two mechanical instruments, it cannot be
questioned that when the plaintiff, in the exercise of the
option which the law gives him, brings his suit in the law
in preference to the equity side of the court, that question
must be submitted to the jury, if there is so much resemblance as raises the question at all. And though the principles by which the question must be decided may be very
largely propositions of law, it still remains the essential
nature of the jury trial that while the court may on this
mixed question of law and fact, lay down to the jury the
law which should govern them, so as to guide them to truth,
and guard them against error, and may, if they disregard
instructions, set aside their verdict, the ultimate response to
the question must come from the jury.
The court in rejecting the patent of Newton seems to
have been mainly governed by the use which was claimed
for it, and also that no mention is made of its adaptability
as a saw. But if what it actually did, is in its nature the
same as sawing, and its structure and action suggested to

BUTLER V.

WATKINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

the mind of an ordinarily skilful mechanic this double use
to which it could be adapted without material change, then
such adaptation to the new use, is not a new invention, and
is not patentable.
The defendant offered to prove that such was the relation
of the principle of the Newton patent and plaintiff's patent
by experts, and we are clear that the resemblance was close
enough to require the submission of the question of identity
to the jury, and the admission of the testimony of experts
on that subject.
This subject was fully considered in the case of Bischoff
v. Welhered,* decided since the present writ of error was
issued.
This court has no more right than the court below to decide that the one patent covered the invention of the other,
or that it did not; and it is obvious that extended argument
here, to prove such general resemblance as would require the
submission of both patents to the jury, might prejudice the
plaintiff's case on the new trial which must be granted. We
therefore forbear to discuss the matter further; for the same
reason we refrain from comment on the instruction. It is
to be understood that in declining to pass upon the other
alleged errors of the record, this court neither affirms or
overrules the action of the court on those points, and the
case is reversed for this fundamental error, which includes
several others resting on that.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

BUTLER V. WATKINS.
I. On a suit for damages by a patentee against a British corporation and its
"managing agent," sent to this country, in having been fraudulently
pretending in a series of negotiations to conclude an agreement with
him, the patentee, to make use of his patent-the alleged real purpose

* 9 Wallace, 815.

