Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v. BARTON.

608

Statement of the case in the opinion.

of the bills are sufficient to give the Circuit Court jurisdiction under the Judiciary Act of 1789; and all were filed
subsequent to the 18th of July, 1866.
When these suits were brought, therefore, there was no
act in force giving jurisdiction, in cases such as those made
by the records, to the courts of the United States. The
Circuit Court was obliged, therefore, to dismiss the bill in
each case for want of jurisdiction, and the judgment of that
court in the several cases must be
AFFIRMED.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. BARTON.
The grantin&or refusing to grant a motion for a new trial resting wholly in
the discretion of the court where it is made, the action of such court is
not ground for error.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri.

Mr. 21 . Carpenter,for the plaintiff in erior; Mr. F. A.
-Dick, contra.,
Mr. Justice SWAYKE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The suit was brought by Barton upon a policy of insurance. Upon looking into the record we find that the case
was tried by a jury; that evidence was adduced by both
parties; that the court instructed the jury, and that they
found a verdict for the plaintiff, upon which judgment was
duly entered. All this was done without any exception
being taken by the defendant. The assurers then moved
the court to set aside the verdict and grant a new trial upon
the following grounds:
That the verdict was against the evidence; that it was
against the law and the instructions of the court; because
the verdict was uncertain and insufficient. The court over-

DOOLEY V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ruled the motion. To this the assurers excepted, and in
their bill of exceptions have set out all the evidence given
in the case. The only point to which our attention has been
called by their counsel in this court is, that, according to the
evidence thus set out, the plaintiff was clearly not entitled
to recover.
The granting or overruling of a motion for a new trial in
the courts of the United States rests wholly in the discretion
of the court to which the motion is addressed. This is so
well settled that it is unnecessary to remark further upon
the subject.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

DOOLEY V. SMITH.
1. A plea which states that the sum due on a promissory note is a certain
amount, on a certain day, and avers a tender on that day of the sum
due in legal tender notes of the United States, is a good plea of tender.
2 In a suit on such note an order of court made by consent that the money
might be withdrawn from court, without prejudice to the validity of the
tender, cannot be supposed to be the reason why the court held the plea
bad on demurrer.
3. As the record in this case showed no other reason why the Court of Appeals of Kentucky sustained a demurrer to the plea than that it was
made in legal tender notes of the United States, it sufficiently appeared
that the question of the validity of these notes as a tender was made and
decided in the negative.
4. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction to review the judgment; and
though the note sued on was made before the passage of the legal tender
statutes by Congress, held that the tender was a valid tender, and that
the judgment of the court below must be reversed.

by Mr. W. . Wadsworth, for the defendant in eiror
(Mr. G. j)avis, opposing), to dismiss a writ of error to the
Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, taken on the
assumption that the case came within that provision of the
MOTION

* Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch, 11; Barr v. Gratz's Heirs, 4 Wheaton,
220; Doswell v. De La Lanza, 20 Howard, 29; Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wallace, 371.

