Dec.1871.]

CAUJOLLE v. FERRIE.
Statement of the
case.

the spring or early summer of 1868 the defendant had similar negotiations with Wailey respecting his cotton-tie, and
conducted towards him deceitfully in order to keep his tie
-out of the market that year, the fact tends to show that in
their conduct towards the plaintiff, there was the same animus, and that they had the same object in view. That the
evidence offered was admissible for that purpqse is abundantly proved by the authorities.*
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW TRIAL ORDERED.

CAUJOLLE v. FERR,.
A grant of letters of administration by a court having sole and exclusive
power of granting them, and which by statute is obliged to grant them
"to the relatives of the deceased, who would be entitled to succeed to
his persona] estate," is conclusive in other court on a question of legitimacy; the grant having been made on an issue raised on the question
of legitimacy alone, and there having been no question of minority,
bad habits, alienage, or other disqualification simply personal.
Held, accordingly, after a grant under such circumstances, that the
legitimacy could not be gone into by the complainants on a bill for distribution by the persons who had opposed the grant of letters, against
the person to whom they had been granted; but on the contrary, that
the complainants were estopped on that subject.
I

to the Circuit Court for the District of :New York;
the case being thus:
The Revised Statutes of New York, on, the subject of
granting letters of administration, thus enact:
ERROR

"The surrogate of each county shall have sole and exclusive
power within the county for which he may be appointed, to
grant letters of administration of the goods, &c., of persons
dying intestate-when an intestate at or immediately previous
to his death was an inhabitant of the county of such surrogate. t
* Castle v. Bullard, 23 Howard, 172
j 2 Revised Statutes,. 73 23.

VOL. XIII.

-

80

Lincoln v. Claffin, 7 Wallace, 132.

OAUJOLLE V. FERRIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Administration, in case of intestacy, shall be granted to the
relatives of the deceased, who would be entitled to succeed to his
personal estate."*
By the further terms of the statute the surplus of an intestate's personal estate, remaining after payment of debts,
shall be distributed, if there be no husband or wife, equally
to and among the children and such as legally represent
them, or if there be no children, and no representatives of a
child, then the next of kin in equal degree to the deceased,
&c.t
To secure a competent person, a large discretion is intrusted to the surrogate. lie may exclude minors, aliens,
intemperate persons, &c.
With these provisions of the code in force, Jeanne Du Lux,
a woman of French extraction, died November 15th, 1854,
at an advanced age, in the city of New York, intestate,
leaving a large personal estate, to be administered and distributed according to the laws of the place of her domicile.
Within a mouth of her decease, John Pierre Ferri6 applied to the surrogate of the county of New York for letters
of administration on her estate, claiming them on the ground
that he was her only child, and, therefore, her sole heir at
law and next of kin. This application was opposed by the
public administrator, an officer who, in the city of New
York, is entitled to administer upon the estate of deceased
persons where there are no next of kin, and the French consul was allowed to contest for the benefit of any party in
interest in France. During the pendency of these proceedings, Benoit Julien Caujolle, Bert Barthelemy Caujolle, and
Mauretta Elie, with their respective wives, appeared before
the surrogate and asked to be heard, alleging that they were
the next of kin, and for that reason, entitled to intervene in
the matter of the administration, and "to share upon the distribution of the estate;" and asking to receive their distributive share of the same. The prayer of their petition was
granted, and after this was done the French consul with* 2 Revised Statutes, 73,

74.

t lb. 96,

75, sub 4, 6.

Dec. 1871.]

CATMOLLE

v.

YERRI .

Statement of the case.

drew from the contest. The only question, involved in the
application for administration was, whether Ferri6 was the
legitimate child of Jeanne Du Lux, and all the proofs taken
and admitted related to that issue alone. As Ferri6 was
conceded to have been born in France, a commission was
issued to take testimony in that country regarding the real
relationship he bore to the said Jeanne Du Lux. This commission was executed and returned to the surrogate, with a
large mass of oral evidence on the subject, together with
documents and extracts from public records.
The case came to a hearing on the 15th day of September,
1856, on the proofs taken in France, and at home, and the
surrogate rendered the following decree:
"In the matter of the Estate of Jeanne Du Lux, deceased.
"Upon taking proof of all the parties, who have appeared in
this matter, and after bearing counsel in behalf of John Pierre
Ferrid, claiming to be the son of the intestate, and counsel in
behalf of the public administrator, in opposition thereto, and
counsel in behalf of Benoit Julien Caujolle, Bert Barthelemy
Caujolle, and Mauretta Elie, and their respective wives, claiming as next of kin of said intestate, it is ordered, adjudged, and
decreed that letters of administration upon the estate of said
Jeanne Da Lux be granted, and issue to the said John P. Ferri6,
as the legitimate son and sole next of kin of the said intestate,
or to said Ferri6, and such person as may be joined with him,
under the statute, on giving the proper security required by
law."~

An appeal was taken from this decree to the Supreme
Court of the State, by Benoit Julien Caujolle, acting for
himself and the other persons in France, and the decree was
affirmed. While the case was pending in the Supreme Court,
on application of the appellant there, additional evidence
was received, not heard by the surrogate, tending to show
the illegitimacy of Ferri6. Notwithstanding this additional
evidence, the decision of the surrogate was affirmed, and it
was reaffirmed on a subsequent appeal to the Court of Appeals. It was on this final decision in his favor that administration of his mother's estate was granted to Ferri.

CAUJOLLE v. FERRIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Arguments for and against the conclusiveness.

In a short time after the decision against them in the
highest court of the State of New York, the persons already
named living in France who asserted themselves to be the
next of kill of Jeanne Du Lux filed their bill against Ferri6
and the person who had been joined with him under the
statute in the court below for distribution.
To this bill the defendants pleaded in bar the decision of
the State courts on the contest for administration, as an adjudication between the same parties of the very point in
issue, by a tribunal having jurisdiction of the subject-matter.
This plea was overruled, and the cause, after answer, replication, and the taking of proofs, was heard on its merits,
and the legitimacy of Ferri6 again established. Appeal was
taken to this court by the other side, from this decision.
The record brought up the whole evidence on the question of
legitimacy; parol and documentary, French and American.
Mr. Whitehead, for the appellants, arranging it with order
and clearness, argued forcibly that the evidence failed to
establish the legitimacy.
Mr. S. P. ANash, contra, and endeavoring to infer from it a
different conclusion, contended, in addition and as a more
principal point, that in view of the language of the Revised
Statutes of New York, which made it obligatory on the surrogate to grant the administration " to the relatives of the
deceased who would be entitled to succeed to his personal
estate," the question of Ferri6's legitimacy-there having
been no question of alienage, minorship, or bad moral habits,
or other personal disqualification in the case-was necessarily decided; that the complainants were accordingly
estopped by the judgment of the surrogate from going into
the consideration of the evidence of that question, and that
the court below had therefore erred in not sustaining the
plea in bar.
Mr. Whitehead, in reply, denied that Ferri6's relationship
had been otherwise than incidentally in question, and that a

Dec. 1871.]

CAUJOLLE V. FERRIA.
Opinion of the court.

decision of a surrogate on a question of granting letters-a
matter largely one of practice, where great discretion was
allowed, and where the matter was passed on summarilyhad that conclusive character which belonged to a judgment
directly on a point in issue and brought the case within the
doctrine of res adjudicata. The court below, he argued, had
therefore not erred in not sustaining the plea in bar.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
If the learned judge of the court below erred in not sustaining the plea in bar, we are relieved of the necessity of
looking into the evidence in order to see whether the cause
was rightly decided on its merits. The inquiry arises then,
in the first place, whether he did so err or not.
There must be an end of every controversy, and the question raised by the plea is, whether the litigation concerning
the legitimacy of Ferri6 in the State tribunals of New York
has been of such a character that it cannot be renewed between the same parties in the Federal courts.
Chief Justice De Grey, in the Duchess of Kingston's case,*
has, in a few words, given a comprehensive summary of the
law on this subject: "From the variety of cases in respect
to judgments being -given in evidence," said the chief justice, "these two distinctions seem to follow as being generally true: first, that the judgment of a court of concurrent
jurisdiction directly upon the point is, as a plea, a bar, or, as
evidence, conclusive between the same parties on the same
matter directly in question in another court; secondly, that
the judgment of a court of exclusive jurisdiction directly
upon the point'is, in like manner, conclusive upon the same
matter between the same parties, coming incidentally in
question, in another court for a different purpose. But
neither the judgment of a concurrent or exclusive jurisdiction is evidence of any matter incidentally cognizable, nor
of any matter to be inferred by argument from the judgment." Did the fact of legitimacy come before the surro* 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 6th ed. 648.

CAUJOLLE V.

[Sup. Ct.

FERRI[p

Opinion of the court.

gate's court, directly or incidentally, and was it necessary to
decide the point before the letters of administration could
issue ? are the questions to be considered and determined.
In cases of intestacy in iNew York the surrogate has the
sole and exclusive power of granting letters of administration, and is obliged to grant them-no question being
made as to personal competency-to the relatives of the deceased who would be entitled to succeed to his or her personal estate, and if Ferri6 were the only child of the intestate, he had the legal right to administer, because he
succeeded to the whole of her estate.* It is true a large
discretion is given to the surrogate to secure a competent
person, and if relatives are disqualified, for certain causes
mentioned in the statute, or are unwilling to accept, administration may be granted to others, and, in such a case, the
basis of action concludes nothing as to the right of succession. But if there be next of kin, and no personal disqualifications attach to them, the surrogate can exercise no discretion on the subject. The inquiry becomes then a matter
of right, and is, by the express language of the statute, to
be determined by the right to the succession.t
In this state of the law on the subject Ferri4 applied for
letters of administration on the estate of Jeanne Du Lux,
claiming to be her son, and, therefore, her nearest of kin.
But these appellants said, You cannot have these letters, because you are illegitimate, and we, as the descendants of a
deceased aunt of the intestate, are her nearest relatives, and
therefore entitled to the succession. The purpose was to get
at the estate, and so they say in their petition addressed to
the surrogate for leave to intervene. They allege themselves
to be " the nearest of kin" and "entitled to share upon the
distribution of the estate," and ask to be heard " and to
receive their distributive share of the estate." Manifestly,
they sought the contest because they supposed the right to
administer involved the right to the property. Their opposition was not based on the ground of Ferrie's personal un* 2 Revised Statutes of New York 73,
t lb. 74,

27.

23; 74,

27; 96,

75;

4, 5.

Dec. 1871.]

CAUJOLLE V. FERRI.

Opinion of the court.

fitness, nor did they wish to administer themselves. How,
then, can it be said that the administration in this case was
granted, without any reference to, or consideration of, the
question of distribution? In the absence of personal disqualifications, as we have seen, it is compulsory on the surrogate to grant the letters to the party to whom the inheritance belongs. This is the primary and only object of inquiry,
in order to ascertain to whom the letters should be issued.
The illegitimacy of Ferri4 in any other view was an immaterial issue. It is personal good conduct, and not the status
of birth which constitutes a man a fit person to be intrusted
with the duties of administration. It is idle, therefore, to
suppose that this contest was inaugurated and carried on,
on any other theory, than that the result of it settled the
right to the estate. Because an administrator can, under
certain circumstances, be appointed who is not connected
by kinship with the intestate proves nothing. It is enough
to say there was no occasion for the surrogate to do this,
and his action was not grounded on his ability to do it in
certain contingencies. His power was invoked under that
clause of the statute which directed him to issue letters, in
case there were relatives, to the one to whom the estate
went, by the law of descents. Ferri4 alleged himself to be
that person, because he was the son of the deceased. These
appellants said, Not so, for you are illegitimate, and have no
inheritable blood, tnd we propose to try that question, and
if it is decided in our favor, we get the estate, as we are,
confessedly, in that event the nearest of kin.. The issue
thus solicited was framed, voluminous evidence both from
abroad and at home taken upon it, able arguments heard,
elaborate opinions given, and repeated decisions made
against the right set up by these appellants, and yet they
are not content. Beaten in the State courts on the vital
question-the illegitimacy of Ferri6-they turn to this court
to try over again the very point decided against them. Can
they do this? They say the point was only cognizable incidentally; but how can this be, when the Surrogate could
not have done the thing he did do without deciding it? It

CAUJOLLE V. FERRI[.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

had to be decided in order to determine to whom the letters
should issue, and the decision of it, of necessity, settled the
distribution of the estate. If this litigation can be renewed
in a separate suit for distribution in another court, then the
same persons can try the same question, in respect to the
same subject, in two different suits. The question before
the surrogate was the legitimacy of Ferri6, and the subject
in regard to which it was necessary to decide it, was the
distribution of the estate. That the ultimate right of property -was the pivot point of the case appears by the decree
itself, for it finds Ferri6 to be the legitimate son and sole
nearest of kin of the intestate, and by reason of this directs
administration to be granted to him. And it goes further,
for it finds, substantially, that the contest was made on the
question of kinship alone, and denies the claim set up by
these appellants. Suppose the suit for distribution had been
brought in the surrogate's court, can there be a doubt that
the decree granting administration to Ferri6 would be pleadable in bar to it? If such be its effect in that court, can or
ought it to have a different effect in another court of concurrent jurisdiction ? If so, then instead of there being
uniformity in the exercise of concurrent jurisdiction, there
would be conflicting determinations, and the evils resulting
from such a course of procedure can be easily foreseen.
Neither the policy of the law nor the interests of society
require this to be done.
*We have thus far considered the question on principle,
but we are also sustained by authority.
In the Ecclesiastical Courts in England, in cases of intestacy, the right of administration follows the right to the
property,* as it does in New York and elsewhere in this
country.
The effect of the sentence of the Ecclesiastical Court, in
granting administration, was considered by Lord Hardwicke,
in Thomas v. JKetteriche,t on a bill filed for distribution of
an intestate's goods, and he held himself concluded by it.
* I Williams on Executors, 394.

t" I Vesey, 333.

Dec. 1871.]

CAUJOLLE

v.

FERRI.

Opinion of the court.

There had been a contest in the Ecclesiastical Court for administration between the same parties on the point which
was the nearest of kin.. The court decided they were in
equal degree, and granted administration to Ketteriche, because Thomas was a minor. Thomas, believing the Ecclesiastical Court had not computed the degrees correctly, and
that he was nearer in relationship to the intestate, filed his
bill for distribution in the High Court of Chancery for the
purpose of getting another computation, but the Lord Chancellor refused to go behind the sentence of the Ecclesiastical
Court. "That court," he said, "is bound to grant administration to the next of kin; and, if I should deterrtine these
parties not to be equal, but the plaintiff nearer, it is directly
contrary to the foundation of this sentence, which would
mitke it erroneous and to be reversed. The consequence of
which would be thAt, by choosing to come here for a distribution, you would change the rule relating thereto, for the
suit niight have been in the Ecclesiastical Court for a distribution as well as here, and that court could not have contradicted the sentence by which administration was granted."
This decision was in 1749.
In Bouchier v. Taylor,* the same point was raised and decided the same way by the House of Lords in 17.76. Notwithstanding these decisions the question was again the
subject for discussion, in a suit for distribution, before ViceChancellor Bruce, in Barrs v. Tackson,t as late as 1842, and
he denied to the sentence of an Ecclesiastical Court, in a
suit for administration, the effect which was given to it in
the other cases. But, on appeal to the House of Lords, this
decree was reversed, and Lord Chancellor Lyndhurst, on a
review of all the authorities, held that the question was no
longer an open one.T It is to be observed, in regard to the
opinion of the learned chancellor, tbat, although he declined
to enter into any of the general arguments in the case, on
. 4 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 708.
t 1 Younge & Collier's Chancery Cases, 585.
$ 1 Phillips, 582.

CAUJOLLE V. FERRI].

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the ground that he was bound by the decision of the House
of Lords in .Bouchier v. Taylor, yet he concedes that if the
suit for distribution had been instituted in the Ecclesiastical
Court, the sentence in the suit for administration would have
been conclusive upon it, and, if it were conclusive there,
that it ought to be conclusive in the Court of Chancery.
It may, therefore, as the result of these authorities, be
safely assumed to be the established law in England, that if
the sentence of an ecclesiastical court, in a suit for administration, turns upon the question of which of the parties is
next of kin to the intestate, it is conclusive upon that question in a subsequent suit in the Court of Chancery between
the same parties for distribution.
We are not aware of any decisions directly upon this
subject in any of the State courts of this country. This,
doubtless, results from the fact that, with us, estates are settled and distributed in the same court that grants the letters
of administration. It seldom occurs here that separate suits
for distribution are instituted at all, and very rarely, anywhere else than in the courts of probate. The recent case in
this court, of Blackburn v. Crawford,* is, in some of its features, unlike this, but the principle of that case would seem
to create an estoppel in this.
On principle and authority, therefore, the judgment in
the suit for administration in New York was pleadable in
bar to this suit, and on that ground alone the bill should
have been dismissed.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE having been of counsel for the
appellee, Ferri6, did not sit in this case.

: 3 Wallace, 175.

