JOHNSON

v.

TOWSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

effect of such a law is to render the prior deed fraudulent
and void against a subsequent purchaser, it is not a law impairing the obligation of contracts. Such, too, is the power
to pass acts of limitations, and their effect. Reason and
sound policy have led to the general adoption of laws of
both descriptions and their validity cannot be questioned."
. . . 1"Cases may occur," says the court, "where the provisions of a law on those subjects may be so unreasonable
as to amount to a denial of a right, and call for the intervention of the court; but the present is not one of them."
So we think of the case now under consideration, and we
therefore
AFFIRM THE JUDGMENT

OF THE STATE COURT.

JOHNSON V. TOWSLEY.
1. The question of the conclusiveness of the action of the land officers in
issuing a patent on the rights of other persons reconsidered and former
decisions affirmed.
2. The tenth section of the act of June 12th, 1843 (11 Stat. at Large, 326),
which declares that the decision of the commissioner shall be final,
means final as to the action of the Executive Department.
3. The general proposition is recognized that when a special tribunal is
authorized to hear and determine certain matters arising in the course
of its duties, its decisions within the scope of its authority are conclusive.
4. Under this principle the action of the Land Department in issuing a
patent is conclusive in all courts and in all proceedings, where by the
rules of law the legal title must prevail.
5. But courts of equity,.both in England and in this country, have always
had the power in certain classes of cases to inquire into and correct
injustice and wrong, in both judicial and executive action, founded in
fraud, mistake, or other special ground of equity, when private rights
are invaded.
6. In this manner the most solemn judgment of courts of law have been
annulled, and patents and other important instruments isuing from
the crown or other executive branch of the government have been
reformed, corrected, declared void, or other appropriate relief granted.
7. The Land Office, dealing as it does with private rights of great value in
a manner particularly liable to be imposed upon by fraud, false swearing, and mistakes, exemplifies the value and necessity of this jurisdiction.

Dec. 1871.]

JOirNSON v. TOWSLEY.
Statement of the case.

8. The decisions of this court on this subject establish:
i. That the judiciary will not interfere by mandamus, injunction, or
otherwise with the officers of the land department in the exercise of
their duties, while the matter remains in their hands for decision.
ii. That their decision on the facts which must be the foundation
of their action, unaffected by fraud or mistake, is conclusive in the
courts.
iii. But that after the title has passed from the government to individuals, and the question has become one of private right, the jurisdiction of courts of equity may be invoked to ascertain if the patentee
does not hold in trust for other parties.
9. In deciding this question, if it appears that the party claiming the equity
has established his right to the land to the satisfaction of the land department in the true construction of the acts of Cobgress, but that, by
an erroneous construction, the patent has been issued to another, the
court will correct the mistake. WInnemota v. Bachelder (1 Wallace,
109), Silver v. Ladd (7 Id. 219).
10. The fourth section of the act of March 3d, 1843, concerning two declaratory statements of the same pre-emptor, is confined to pre-emptions of
land subject to private entry.
11. The fifth section of that act relating to lands not proclaimed for sale,
does not forfeit the pre-emptor's right absolutely, when be has failed
to make his declaratory statement within three months, but it gives
the better right to any one else who has made a settlement, or declaratory statement on the same land before the first settler has made the
requisite declaration.
12. Therefore, a declaratory statement on such land is valid if made at
any time before anotheY party commences a settlement or files a declaration.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Nebraska; the case being
this :
By an act of Congress, approved September 4th, 1841,*
and entitled "An act to appropriate the proceeds of the public lands, and to grant pre-emption rights," it was enacted:
"SECTION 10. That from and after the passage of this act,
every person, &c., who since the 1st day of June, A.D. 1840, has
made or shall hereafter make a settlement in person on the

public land . . . which has been, or shall have been, surveyed

prior thereto, and who shall inhabit and improve the same, and
who has or shall erect a dwelling thereon, shall be, and is hereby, authorized to enter with the register of the land office for
the district in which such land may lie, by legal subdivisions,
* 5 Stat. at Large, 455.

JoNsoN v. TOWSLEY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

any number of acres not exceeding 160, or a quarter-section of
land, to include the residence of such claimant, upon paying to
the United States the minimum price of such land, subject, however to the following limitations and exceptions: No person
shall be entitled to more than one pre-emptive right by virtue
of this act," &c., &c.
" SECTION 11. That when two or more persons shall have settled on the same quarter-section of land, the right of pre-emption shall be in him or her who made the first settlement, &c.;
and all questions as to the right of pre-emption arising between
different settlers shall be settled by the register and receiver of the
district within which the land is situated, subject to an appealto and
a revision by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States."
" SECTION 14. That this act shall not delay the sale of any of
the public lands of the United States beyond the time which
has been, or may be, appointed by the proclamation of the
President, nor shall the provisions of this act be available to
any person or persons who shall fail to make the proof and payment, and file the affidavit required before the day appointed
for the commencement of the sales as aforesaid.
"SECTION 15. That whenever any person has settled or shall
settle and improve a tract of land, subject at the time of settlement
to private entry, and shall intend to purchase the same under the
provisions of this act, such person shall in the first case, within
three months after the passage of the same, and in the last
within thirty days next after the date of such settlement, file
with the register of the proper, district a written statement,
describing the land settled upon, and declaring the intention
of such person to claim the same under the provisions of this
act; and shall, where such settlement is already made, within
twelve months after the passage of this act, and where it shall
hereafter be made, within the same period after the date of
such settlement, make the proof, affidavit, and payment herein
required; and if he or she shall fail to file such written statement as aforesaid, or shall fail to make such affidavit, proof, and
payment, within the twelve months aforesaid, the tract of land
so settled and improved shall be subject to the entry of any
other purchaser."
A subsequent act, that of March 3d, 1843,* entitled "An
* 5 Stat. at Large, 620.

Dec. 1871.]

JoNSNs

V. TOWSLEY.

'Statement of the case.
act to authorize the investigation of alleged frauds under
the pre-emption laws, and for other purposes," thus enacts:
"SECTION 4. That where an individual has filed, under the
late pre-emption law, his declaration of intention to claim the
benefits of said law for one tract of land, it shall not be lawful
for the same individual at any future time, to file a second declaration for another tract.
"SECTION 5. That claimants under the late pre-emption law,
for land not yet proclaimed for sale, are required to make known
their claims, in writing, to the register of the proper land
office, . . . within three months from the time of the settlement,...
giving the designation of the tract, and the time of settlement;
otherwise his claim to be forfeited, and the tract awarded to the
next settler, in the order of time, on the same tract of land, who
shall have given such notice and otherwise complied with the
conditions of the law."

Finally came an act, of June 12th, 1858 :*
"(SECTION 10. That the 11th section of the act of Congress,

approved 4th September, 1841, entitled 'An act to appropriate
the proceeds of the public lands, and to grant pre-emption
rights,' be so amended that appeals from the decisions of The
district officers, in cases of contest between different settlers
for the right of pre-emption, shall hereafter be decided by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, whose decision shall
be final, unless appeal therefrom be taken to the Secretary of
the Interior."
With these provisions of law in force, one Towsley, on
the 15th of June, 1858, settled, as he alleged, on the W. 3S.W. quarter-section 3, township 15 N., range 13 east, lying
near the city of Omaha, and made improvements upon the
same; and on the 4th of February, 1859, filed with the register of the land office his declaratory statement of an intention to claim the land under the provisions of the act of
September 4th, 1841; claiming his settlement from June.
15th, 1858. On the 5th of October, 1860, one Johnson, also
setting up a settlement, improvement, &c., filed a declara* 11 Stat. at Large, 326.

JOHNSON

v. TOWSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tory statement of his intention to pre-empt the same laud
under the act of 1841.
The same Towsley had previously, to wit, on the 2d of
April, 1858, filed a declaratory statement giving notice that
he had settled, March 25th, 1858, upon other land, described
in the usual manner, and claimed a pre-emption right
therein; which land had not yet been offered at public sale
and thus rendered subject to privale entry. From this land he
withdrew claim early in the following June, and waived all
claim to it in favor of an opposing settler.
An investigation as to the respective rights of the two
parties was had before the local office, which resulted in a
decision in favor of Towsley. This decision was affirmed
by the Commissioner of the General Laud Office; and on
the 20th of September, 1862, Towsley received a patent.
The dispute between the parties being taken by appeal before the Secretary of the Interior, that officer on the 11th
of July, 1863, as appeared from a statement of the Assistant
Secretary, decided in favor of Johnson, on the ground that
Towsley, previously to filing his declaratory statement claiming the land in question, had filed a declaratory statement
claiming the other lands.
After this, Johnson entered on the lands, and a patent
was issued to him.
In this state of things Towsley, relying on his patent and
on different acts of Congress regulating the public lands,
filed his bill in one of the inferior courts of Nebraska,
against Johnson and others, his grantees, to compel them
to surrender their title to him, the existing evidence of which
cast a cloud on his own. The court in which the bill was
filed decreed such a surrender, and the Supreme Court or
the State on appeal affirmed that decree. Johnson now
brought the case here under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789; or, if the reader prefer so to consider,
under the 2d section of the act of February 5th, 1867, reenacting with some change that so well-known section.* The reader may see the two acts arranged in parallel columns in Trebilcock v. Wilson, 12 Wallace, 687.

Dec. 1871.]

JOHNSON

v.

TOWSLEY.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Three questions arose here:
1. Whether, conceding that the courts of Nebraska had
jurisdiction in the case, this court had any under the Judiciary Act of 1789 or 1867.
2. Admitting, upon the concession stated, that it had,
whether in view of the language of the 10th section of the
act of June 12th, 1858 (quoted, supra, p. 75), as to the efect
of decisions by the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, in cases of contest between different settlers for the
right of pre-emption, either of the courts below had any
jurisdiction. Since if they had not, this court would have
none now.
3. Whether, admitting that all three courts bad jurisdiction, and that the matter was now properly here for review,
the decision of the Supreme Court of Nebraska, affirming
the validity of Towsley's patent, was correct.
Mr. Lyman Trumbull, for the plaintiff in error:
L A question of jurisdiction under the 25th section has
been suggested in a case similar to this. But we rely more
on other points, one of which includes merits. We assert,
therefore, that
II. The act of 1858, in plain terms makes the decision
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office "final,"
unless appeal therefrom be taken to the Secretary of the
Interior; when, of course, the decision of this officer must
be equally so.
But independently of this, though courts of equity*may
interpose in cases of fraud, or to correct mistakes made in
the disposition of the public lands by the officers charged
with that duty, they cannot supervise the decisions of those
officers when no fraud or mistake is alleged,* other than in
arriving at a wrong conclusion, after a full hearing of all the
parties in interest.
The cases of Lytle v. State of Arkansas,t and Garland v.
Wynn,T arose under pre-emption acts prior to 1841, and be* Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 511; Lytle v. Arkansas, 9 Howard, 333.
t 22 Howard, 193.

$ 20 Id. 8.

JOHNSON v.

[Sup. Ct.

TOWSLEY.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

fore the law vested the land officers with authority to settle
questions arising between different pre-emptors, or made
their decisions final. In these cases, as well as in the subsequent ones of Minnesota v. Bachelder,* and Lidsy v.ltawes,t
fraud and misrepresentation were alleged, and in most of
them the proceedings before the land officers had been ex
parte. In none of them had there been a decision between
conflicting claimants after a full hearing on notice and final
appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, as in this case.
III. But if this is not so, and if the ordinary courts can
re-examine such cases as this, Towsley has no case.
1. He filed April 2d, 1858, his declaratory statement,
giving notice that he had, on the 25th day of March preceding, settled upon certain lands-different from those he now
claims-and would claim a pre-emption right therein. It
was not until after this, to wit, the 15th of August, 1858,
that he tendered his declaratory statement for the land in
controversy. This alone is fatal to his case.
The prohibition of the 4th section of the act of March
3d, 1843, against filing a second declaration, is not limited
to filings on lands which were subject to private entry, hut
extends as well to lands of the class in question which
have not been proclaimed for sale, the only difference being
that in the one case the law requires the declaratory statement to be filed within thirty days, and in the other within
three months from the date of settlement. But the law
prohibits the same individual who has filed a declaration
claiming one tract of land, from afterwards filing a second
declaration for another tract, as much in the one case as the
other.
The section is not limited to declarations which had been
filed at the date of its passage, but applies to every case
where an individual "at any future time" shall offer to file
a second declaration. If he " hasfiled under the late pre-emption
law" for one tract of land, at the " future time," when he
seeks to file a second declaration for other land, the second
* I Wallace, 109.

t2 Black, 5.54.

Dec. 1871.]

JoHNsoN
]
v. TOWSLEY.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

filing is invalid. The same reason applies for confining a
pre-emption to one filing on lands not proclaimed for sale as
on those which had been.
To allow a pre-emptor to file as many declaratory statements on as many different tracts of land as he pleases,
would put it in his power to keep the public lands from
being taken and settled by others, which would be contrary
to public policy as well as the statute. The policy of the
government has always been to sell its lands to actual settlers, and not let them fall into the hands of speculators.
Hence, it has often delayed proclaiming lands for sale that
actual settlers might take them; but this policy would be
thwarted if a single pre-emptor could file declaratory statements for as many tracts as he pleased.
2. But a stronger, and, we think, a plainly unanswerable
argument against his case remains. By the 5th section of the
act of June 3d, 1843, a claimant is required. to file his declaratory statement "within three months from the time of
the settlement, otherwise his claim to be forfeited, and the
tract awarded to the next settler in the order of time, on the
same tract of land, who shall have given such notice, and
otherwise complied with the conditions of the law." This
is statute law, and imperative. Towsley neither filed nor
offered to file his declaratory statement within the three
months from the time of his settlement upon the land, and
his claim as a pre-emptor thereby became forfeited. If,
after having occupied the land nearly a year, he was at
liberty to file a declaratory statement, asserting his settlement to have been within three months, then he could occupy
the land indefinitely, and need never file his declaratory
statement, and the law requiring him to do so within the
three months becomes nugatory. No other individual could
settle upon the land and pre-empt it, because Towsley, as
soon as such an attempt should be made, would have it in
his power to defeat him by filing a declaratory statement,
dating his settlement, not at the time it was actually made,
but at any time within three months which should be anterior to that of the other claimant. Towsley's declaratory

JOHNSON v. TOWSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

statement, filed February 4th, 1859, claiming a settlement
June 15th, 1858, was a nullity.
By the act of 1841, individuals settling on lands not proclaimed for sale were not required to file declaratory statements, and in case of dispute between pre-emptors, the
right of pre-emption was declared to be in him who made
the first settlement; but the act of 1843 declared the claim
of the first settler forfeited unless he filed a declaratory
statement within three months from the time of settlement.
Towsley having failed to file his declaratory statement as
required by law, the land was properly awarded to Johnson,
who was the next settler, and complied with the pre-emption
laws.
[There were some other questions presented in the brief
of the learned counsel, such as supposed defects in the bill,
and whether on the evidence Towsley made the necessary
settlement and owned the improvements, which this court
declared were not within its cognizance. It was also argued
that Towsley forfeited his right by entering into contracts,
by which his title should enure to the benefit of others than
himself, in violation of the 13th section of the act of 1841;
but as the court considered that no such matter was put in
issue in the pleadings, and that it could not be considered"
here, the reporter makes no further mention either of the
questions or the matter referred to.]
Mr. J. M. Woolworth, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of this court rests on two grounds found
in the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, or, perhaps we
should rather say, in the 2d section of the act of February
5th, 1867, which seems to be a substitute for the 25th section
of the act of 1789, so far as it covers the same ground. The
defendant in error relied on his patent, as conclusive of his
right to the land, as an authority emanating from the United
States, which was decided against him by the State court,

Dec. 1871.]

JoHNsoN 0v. TOWSLEY.
Opinion of the court.

and he relied upon certain acts of Congress as making good
his title, and the decision of the State courts was against
the right and title set up by him under those statutes. Undoubtedly the case is fairly within one or both of these
clauses of the act of 1867, and the conclusiveness of the
patent and the right of the plaintiffs in error claimed under
the statutes must be considered.
The contest arises out of rival claims to the right of preemption of the land in controversy. The register and receiver, after hearing these claims, decided in favor of Towsley,
the complainant, and allowed him to enter the land, received
his money, and gave him a patent certificate. On appeal to
the Commissioner of the Land Office their action was affirmed, but on a further appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, the action of these officers was reversed on a construction of an act of Congress, in which the secretary differed
from them, and under that decision the patent was issued
to Johnson.
It will be seen by this short statement of the case that the
rights asserted by complainant, and recognized and established by the Nebraska courts, were the same which were
passed upon by the register and receiver, by the commissioner, and by the Secretary of the Interior, and we are met
at the threshold of this investigation with the proposition
that the action of the latter officer, terminating in the delivery to the defendant of a patent for the land, is conclusive
of the rights of the parties not only in the land department,
but in the courts and everywhere else.
This proposition is not a new one in this court in this class,
of cases, but it is maintained that none of the cases heretofore decided extend, in principle, to the one before us; and
the question being pressed upon our attention with an earnestness and fulness of argument which it has riot perhaps
before received, and with reference to statutes not heretofore
considered by the court, we deem the occasion an appropriateone to re-examine the whole subject.
The statutory provision referred to is. the 10th section of
VOL. XIII.

,

JOHNSON v. TOWSLEY.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the act of June 12th, 1858,* which declares that the 11th
section of the general pre-emption law of 1841 shall "be so
amended that appeals from the decision of the district officers, in cases of contest between different settlers for the
right of pre-emption, shall hereafter be decided by the Coinmissioner of the General Land Office, whose decision shall
be final, unless appeal therefrom be taken to the Seciretary
of the Interior."
The finality here spoken of applies in terms to the decision of the commissioner, and can only be supposed to
attach to that made by the secretary by some process of
reasoning, which implies the absurdity of making the decision, on appeal to the secretary, less conclusive than that
made by the inferior officer. But the section under consideration is only one of several enactments concerning the
relative duties, power, and authority of the executive departments over the sulject of the disposition of the public lands,
and a brief reference to some of them will, we think, show
what was intended by this amendment. By the 1st section
of the act to reorganize the General Land Office, approved
July 4th, 1836,t it was enacted that the executive duties
now prescribed, or which may hereafter be prescribed, by
law, appertaining to the surveying and sale of the public
lands, .
and the issuing of patents for all grants of land,
under the authority of the United States, shall be subject to
the supervision and control of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office, under the direction of the President of
the United States. In the case of Barnard's Hreirs v. Ashley's
Jleirs,+ it was held that this authorized the commissioner to
entertain appeals from the decisions of the register and receiver in regard to pre-emption claims, and it is obvious that
the direct control of the President was contemplated whenever it might be invoked. Afterward, when the act of September 4th, 1841, was passed, which so enlarged the right
of pre-emption as to have been ever since considered the
main source of pre-emption rights, the 11th section provided
that all questions as to the right of pre-emption arising be*11 Stat. at Large, 326.

"f 5 Id. 107.

+ 18 :Howard, 45.

Dec. 1871.]

JOHNSON

v. - TOWSLEY.

Opinion of the court.

tween different settlers should be settled by the register and
receiver of the district within which the land is situated,
subject to an appeal to and revision by the Secretary of the
Treasury of the United States. This provision, in the class
of cases to which it referred, superseded the functions of the
Commissioner of the Land Office, as revising -officer to the
register and receiver, and, so far as the act of 1836 associated the President with the commissioner, superseded his
supervisory functions also. It left the right of appeal from
the register and receiver to the Secretary of the Treasury
direct as the head of the department. The 10th section of
the act of 1858, so much relied upon by the plaintiffs in
error, the operative language of which we have quoted, was
clearly intended to remedy this defect or oversight, and to
restore to the commissioner his rightful control over the
matters which belonged to his bureau. In the use of the
word final we think nothing more was intended than to say
that, with the single exception of an appeal to his superior,
the Secretary of the Interior, his decision should exclude
further inquiry in that department. But we do not see, in
the language used in this connection, any intention to give
to the final decision of the Department of the Interior, to
which the control of the land system of the government had
been transferred, any more conclusive effect than what belonged to it without its aid.
But while we find no support to the proposition of the
counsel for plaintiffs in error in the special provisions of the
statute relied on, it is not to be denied that the argument is
much stronger when founded on the general doctrine that
when the law has confided to a special tribunal the authority
to hear and determine certain matters arising in the course
of its duties, the decision of that tribunal, within the scope
of its authority, is conclusive upon all others. That the
action of the land office in issuing a patent for any of the
public land, subject to sale by pre-emption or otherwise, is
conclusive of the legal title, must be admitted under the
principle above stated, and in all courts, and in all forms of
judicial proceedings, where this title must control, either by

JOHNSON V. TOWSLuY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

reason of the limited powers of the court, or the essential
character of the proceeding, no inquiry can be permitted
into the circumstances under which it was obtained. On
the other hand there has always existed in the courts of
equity the power in certain classes of cases to inquire into
and correct mistakes, injustice, and wrong in both judicial
and executive action, however solemn the form which the
result of that action may assume, when it invades private
rights; and by virtue of this power the final judgments of
courts- of law have been annulled or modified, and patents
and other important instruments issuing from the crown, or
other executive branch of the government, have been corrected or declared void, or other relief granted. No reason
is perceived why the action of the land office should constitute an exception to this principle. In dealing with the
public domain under the system of laws enacted by Congress
for their management and sale, that tribunal decides upon
private rights of great value, and very often, from the nature
of its functions, this is by a proceeding essentially ex parte,
and peculiarly liable to the influence of frauds, false swearing, and mistakes. These are among the most ancient and
well-established grounds of the special jurisdiction of courts
of equity just referred to, and the necessity and value of that
jurisdiction are nowhere better exemplified than in its application to cases arising in the land office. It is very well
known that these officers do not confine themselves to determining, before a patent issues, who is entitled to receive
it, but they frequently assume the right, long after a patent
has issued and the legal title passed out of the United States,
to recall or set aside the patent, and issue one to some other
party, and if the holder of the first patent refuses to surrender it they issue a second. In such a case as this have
the courts no jurisdiction ? If they have not, who shall decide the conflicting claims to the land ? If the land officers
can do this a few weeks or a few months after the first patent
has issued, what limit is there to their power over private
rights? Such is the case of Stark v. Starrs,* in which the
6 Wallace, 402.

Dec. 1871.]

JOHNSON

v. TOWSLEY.

Opinion of the court.

patent was issued to one party one day and to the other the
day after for the same laud. They are also in the habit of
issuing patents to different parties for the same land, containing in each instrument thus issued a reservation of the rights
of the other party. How are those rights to be determined
except by a court of equity? Which patent shall prevail, and
what conclusiveness, or inflexible finality, can be attached to
a tribunal whose acts are in their nature so inconclusive?
So also the register and receiver, to whom the law primarily
confides these duties, often hear the application of a party
to enter land as a pre-emptor or otherwise, decide in favor
of his right, receive his money, and give him a certificate
that he is entitled to a patent. Undoubtedly this constitutes
a vested right, and it can only be divested according to law.
In every such case, where the land office afterwards sets aside
this certificate, and grants the land thus sold to another person, it is of the very essence of judicial authority to inquire
whether this has been done in violation of law, and, if it has,
to give appropriate remedy. And so, if for any other reason
recognized by courts of equity, as a ground of interference
in such cases, the legal title has passed from the United
States to one party, when, in equity and good conscience,
and by the laws which Congress has made on the subject, it
ought to go to another, "a court of equity will," in the language of this court in the case of Stark v. Starrs, just cited,
"convert him into a trustee of the true owner, and compel
him to convey the legal title." In numerous cases this has
been announced to be the settled doctrine of this court in
reference to the action of the land officers.*
Not only has it been fouiid necessary in the interest of
justice to hold this doctrine in regard to the decisions of
the land officers of the United States, but it has been found
equally necessary in the States which have had a system of
laud sales. N~umerous cases are found in the courts of Kentucky and Virginia, where they have, by proceedings in
equity, established the junior patent to be the title instead
* Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 Howard, 192; Garland v. Wynn, 20 Id. 8; Lindsey v. Hawes, 2 Black, 559.

Joninso

v. ToWSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of the elder patent, by an inquiry into the priority of location or some other equitable matter, or have compelled the
holder of the title under the patent to convey, in whole or
in part, to some persons whose claim rested on matters
wholly anterior to the issuing of the patent. There is also
a similar course of adjudication in the State of Pennsylvania,
and we doubt not cases may be found in other States. Several of the Kentucky cases have come to this court, where
the principle has been uniformly upheld.*
It is said, however, that the present case does not come
within any of the adjudicated cases on this subject; that in
all of them there has been some element of fraud or mistake
on which the cases rested.
Undoubtedly there has been in all of them some special
gr'ound for the exercise of the equitable jurisdiction, for this
court does not and never has asserted that all the matters
passed upon by the land office are open to review in the
courts. On the contrary, it is fully conceded that when
those officers decide controverted questions of fhct, in the
absence of fraud, or impositions, or mistake, their decision
on those questions is final, except as they may be reversed
on appeal in that department. But we are not prepared to
concede that when, in the application of the facts as found
by them they, by misconstruction of the law, take from a
party that to which he has acquired a legal right under the
sanction of those laws, the courts are without power to give
any relief. And this is precisely what this court decided in
the case of Minnesota v. Balcelelder,t and in the case of Silver
v. Ladd.+ In this latter case a certificate under the Oregon
donation law, given by the register and receiver, was set
aside by the commissioner, and his action approved by the
secretary, and the action of each of these officers was based
on a different construction of the act of Congress. This
court held that the register and receiver were right; that
Finly v. Williams, 9 Cranch, 164; 3McArthur v. Browder, 4 Wheaton.,
488; Hunt v. Wickliffe, 2 Peters, 201; Green v. Liter, 8 Cranch, 229.
1 7 Id. 219.
+ 1 Wallace, 109.-

:Dec. 1871.]

JOHNSON V. TOWSLEY.
Opinion of the court.

the certificate conferred a valid claim to the land, and that
the patent issued to another party by reason of this mistake
must enure to the benefit of the party who had the prior
and better right. This court has at all times been careful
to guard itself against an invasion of the functions confided
by law to other departments of the government, and in reference to the proceedings before the officers intrusted with
the charge of selling the public lands it has frequently and
firmly refused to interfere with them in the discharge of
their duties, either by mandamus or injunction, so long as
the title remained in the United States and the matter was
rightfully before those officers for decision. On the other
hand, it has constantly asserted the right of the proper courts
to inquire, after the title had passed from the government,
and the question became one of private right, whether, according to the established rules of equity and the acts of
Congress concerning the public lands, the party holding that
title should hold absolutely as his own, or as trustee for another. And we are satisfied that the relations thus established between the courts and the land department are not
only founded on a just view of the duties and powers of each,
but are essential to the ends of justice and to a sound administration of the law.
In the case now under consideration the complainant
made his declaratory statement and proved his settlement
to the satisfaction of the register and receiver, and they gave
him'a patent certificate. The defendant, Johnson, contested
the complainant's right before these officers and asserted
that he was entitled to the pre-emption right for the same
land, and when they decided in favor of Towsley he appealed
to the commissioner. This officer approved the decision of
the register and receiver, and an appeal was taken by Johnson to the Secretary of the Interior. The secretary, or
rather the assistant secretary, as appears by the record, rejected Towsley's claim on the sole ground that he had previously filed a declaratory statement of his intention to claim
a pre-emption for another tract of land, which he had voluntarily abandoned, and it is clear that but for his construction

JOHNSON V. TOWSLEY.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

of the statute on that subject Towsley would have received
the patent which was awarded to Johnson.
We must therefore inquire whether the statute, rightly
construed, defeated Towsley's otherwise perfect right to the
patent, and this inquiry requires consideration of some of
the features of our system of land sales.
One of these is that after the surveys are made in any
given locality, so that the different tracts can be identified
by the descriptions used in these surveys, they are not subject to sale by private entry at the land office until there
has been a public auction, at which the lands so surveyed
are offered to the highest bidder. The time and place of
this sale and the lands offered for sale are made known by a
proclamation of the President. The object of this public
sale and of withholding the lands from private entry is undoubtedly to secure to the government the benefit of competition in bidding for these parcels of land supposed to be
worth more than the price fixed by Congress, at which they
may afterward be sold at private entry. But as the tide of
emigration was greatly in advance of these public sales, and
indeed of the surveys, it was found that settlers who had
made meritorious improvements were unable to secure the
land on which they had settled without bidding at public
auction against parties who took into consideration the value
of the improvements so made and who would get them by
the purchase. To remedy this evil several of the earlier
pre-emption laws were passed, and they only included settlements made prior to the passage of those laws. The act
of 1841, however, provided a general system of pre-emption,
and authorized pre-emption of lands surveyed, but not open
to private entry, as well as land which could be bought at
private sale. It protected settlements already made, and
allowed future settlements to be made with a right to preemption, which was a new feature in the pre-emption system.
As, however, these'settlements might now be made on lands
subject to private sale, and the settler was allowed a year in
which to make his entry and pay the money, the 15th section of the act required the settler on such lands to make a

Dec. :1871.]

D.O]HNsoN )v. TOWSLEY.
Opinion of the court.

declaratory statement if he intended to claim a right of preemption, in which he should declare such intention and describe the land. This statement was filed with the register
and receiver, and was obviously intended to enable them to
reserve the tract from sale for the time allowed the settler
to perfect his entry and pay for the land. But an experience
of two years seems to have shown that this privilege of withdrawing particular tracts from private sale was subject to
abuse by persons who filed declarations for several tracts
when they could only receive one as a pre-emptor, thus delaying the sales and preventing others from settling on or
buying, with a view to a purchase by themselves or friends
when it becam e convenient to do so. To remedy this evil
Congress, when it came to legislate again about the right
of pre-emption, by the act of 1843, enacted by the 4th section "that where an individual had filed, under the late preemption law, his declaration of intention to claim the benefit
of said law for one tract of land, it shall not be lawful for
the same individual, at any future time, to file a second declaration for another tract." As the only declaration of intention required by the act of 1841 (which is undoubtedly
the one referred to as "the late pre-emption law") was, both
by its express terms and by the policy which dictated it,
confined to pre-emptions of land subject to private entry, we
entertain no doubt that this section was limited, in like
manner, to that class of lands. As to lands not subject to
private sale no declaration of intention was required by the
act of 1841, and the reference to such a declaration in the
act of 1843 would be without anything on which to base it.
This view is made still clearer by the fact that the next succeeding section of the act of 1843 does introduce distinctly,
as a new and separate provision, the requirement that settlers on the land not yet proclaimedfor sale are required to
make a similar declaration, within three months from the time
of settlement, on pain of forfeiting their pre-emption right in
ivor of the next actual settler, but making no provision
whatever for the case of two declarations by the same party
on different tracts of land. We are, therefore, of opinion

JOHNSON v. TOWSLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the effect of a double declaration in defeating the right
of the pre-emptor to the tract which he finally claims to
purchase is limited to lands subject, at the time, to private
sale. The land in controversy in this suit was never subject
to private entry, and the application of the principle by the
secretary to Towsley's case was, as we think, a misconstruction of the law, through which his right was denied him.
But it is argued that if the pre-emption claim of Towsley
was not governed by the 4th section of the act of 1843, it
certainly was by the 5th section of that act, and as he did
not file his declaration of intention within three months
from the time of settlement, his claim was forfeited and
gave him no right.
The record shows undoubtedly that his settlement commenced about eight months before he filed his declaration,
and it must be conceded that the land was of that class
which had not been proclaimed for sale, and his case must
be governed by the provision of that section. It declares
that where the party fails to make the declaration within
the three months his claim is to be forfeited and the tract
awarded to the next settler in order of time on the same
tract, who shall have given such notice and otherwise complied with the conditions of the law. The words "shall
have given such notice," presuppose a case where some one
has given such notice before the party who has thus neglected seeks to assert his right. If no other party has
made a settlement or has given notice of such intention,
then no one has been injured by the delay beyond three
months, and if at any time after the three months, while the
party is still in possession, he makes his declaration, and
this is done before any one else has initiated a right of preemption by settlement or declaration, we can see no purpose
in forbidding him to make his declaration or in making it
void when made. And we think that Congress intended to
provide for the protection of the first settler by giving him
three months to make his declaration, and for all other settlers by saying if this is not done within three months any
one else who has settled on it within that time, or at any

