NORWICH

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

conveyed to others by the patent of the United States, without trenching upon the power of Congress in the disposition
of the public lands. That power cannot be defeated or obstructed by any occupation of the premises before the issue
of the patent, under State legislation, in whatever form or
tribunal such occupation be asserted.*
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri must be REVERSED, and the cause be REMANDED for
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS pursuant to this opinion; and it is
So ORDERED.

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
1. The actof Congress of 1851, limiting the liability of ship-owners, includes
collisions, as well as injuries to cargo; so that if a collision happens between two vessels at sea, and one of them is in fault without the privity
or knowledge of her owners, the latter will only be liable for the amount
of their interest in the vessel and her freight then pending; and that
amount being paid into court, if insufficient to pay all the damages
caused, will be apportioned pro rata amongst the owners of the injured
vessel and of the cargoes of both vessels in proportion to their respective
0
losses.
:2. This liability of the ship-owners may be discharged by their surrendering
and assigning to a trustee for the benefit of the parties injured, in pursuance of the 4th section of the act, the vessel and freight, although
these may have been diminished in value by the collision, or other casualty during the voyage; and, it seems, that if they are totally lost the
owners will be entirely discharged.
3. In this respect the act has adopted the rule of the maritime law as contradistinguished from that of the English statutes on the same subject.
4. The District Court, sitting as a court of admiralty, has jurisdiction of
cases arising under the act, and may administer the law as provided in
the 4th section.
5. The proper course of proceeding in such a case pointed out.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut;
the case being this:
On the 3d of March, 1851, Congress passed an actt as folWilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 516, 517; Irvine v. Marshall, 20 Howard,
558; Fenn v. Holme, 21 Id. 481; Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters, 672.
t 9 Stat. at Large, 635.

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH COMPANY

V. WRIGHT.

105

Statement of the case.

lows-the sections in brackets, i. e., the 2d and 5th sections,
not being specially important in this case, and inserted only
to give a more full view of the act:
"SEc. 1. No owner or owners of any ship or vessel shall be
subject or liable to answer for or make good to any one or more
person or persons, any loss or damage which may happen to
any goods or'merchandise whatsoever, which shail be shipped,
taken in, or put on board any such ship or vessel, by reason or
by means of any fire happening to or on board the said ship or
vessel, unless such fire is caused by the design or neglect of
such owner or owners: -Provided,That nothing in this act contained shall prevent the parties from making such contract as
they please, extending or limiting the liability of ship-owners.
[" SE . 2. If any shipper or shippers of platina, gold, gold
dust, silver, bullion, or other precious metals, coins, jewelry,
bills of any bank or public body, diamonds or other precious
stones, shall lade the same on board of any ship or vessel, without, at the time of such lading, giving to the master, agent,
owner or owners of the ship or vessel receiving the same, a note
in writing of the true character and value thereof, and have the
same entered on the bill of lading therefor, the master and
owner or owners of the said vessel shall not be liable, as carriers
thereof, in any form or manner. Nor shall any such master or
owners be liable for any such valuable goods beyond the value
and according to the character thereof so notified and entered.]
"SEO. 3. The liability of the owner or owners of any ship or
vessel, for any embezzlement, loss or destruction, by the master,
officers, mariners, passengers, or any other person or persons,
of any property, goods, or merchandise, shipped or put on board
of such ship or vessel, or for any loss, damage or injury by collision,
or for any act, matter or thing, loss, damage or forfeiture, done,
occasioned or incurred, without the privity or knowledge of
such owner or owners, shall in no case exceed the amount or
value of the interest of such owner or owners respectively, in
such ship or vessel, and her freight then pending.
"S1Ec. 4. If any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction shall
be suffered by several fi:eighters or owners of goods, wares, or
merchandise, or any property whatever, on the same voyage,
and the whole value of the ship or vessel, and b6r freight for
the voyage, shall not be sufficient to make compensation to each

NrsORWIC11

COMPANY

V.

WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.

of' them, they shall receive compensation from the owner or
owners of the ship or vessel, in proportion to their respective
losses; and for that purpose the said freighters and owners of'
the property, and the owner or owners of' the ship or vessel, or
any of' them, may take the appropriate proceedings in any court,
for the purpose of apportioning the sum for which the owner or
owners of the ship or vessel may be liable amongst the parties
entitled thereto. And it shall be deemed a sufficient compliance
with the requirements of this act, on the part of such owner or
owners, if he or they shall transfer his or their interest in such
vessel and freight, for the benefit of such claimants, to a trustee,
to be appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act
as such trustee for the person or persons who may prove to be
legally entitled thereto, from and after which transfer all claims
and proceedings against the owner or owners shall cease.
["SEC. 5. The charterer or charterers of any ship or vessel,
in case lie or they shall man, victual, and navigate such vessel
at his or their own expense, or by his or their own procurement,
shall be deemed the owner or owners of such vessel within the
meaning of this act; and such ship or vessel, when so chartered,
shall be liable in the same manner as if navigated by the owner
or owners thereof.]
"SEC. 6. Nothing in the preceding sections shall be construed
to take away or affect the remedy to which any party may be
entitled, against the master, officers, or mariners, for or on account of any embezzlement, injury, loss or destruction of goods,
wares, merchandise, or other property, put on board any ship
or vessel, or on account of any negligence, fraud or other malversation of such master, officers, or mariners, respectively; nor
shall anything herein contained lessen or take away any responsibility to which any master or mariner of any ship or vessel
may now by law be liable, notwithstanding such master or mariner may be an owner or part owner of the ship or vessel."
This statute being in force, the schooner Vail Vliet, on
the night of 18th of April, 1866, making three or four
knots an hour, and the steamer City of Norwich making
twelve-the schooner's course being nearly at right angles
to that of the steamer-collided in Long Island Sound.
The schooner sank, and both she and her cargo were lost.
The steamer was greatly damaged by the blow, and, taking

Dec. 1871.]

1NORwIcH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

107

Statement of the case.

fire, sank also. Her cargo was lost, but she herself was subsequently raised and repaired at great expense.
Hereupon the owners of the schooner filed a libel in personan in the District Court for the District of Connecticut
against the owners of the steamer. The owners of the
steamer, by way of defence, stating that the steamer had on
board "a large and valuable freight belonging to various
parties, much larger in value than the whole amount of the
interest of the defendants in the said steamer and of her
freight then pending," and that the whole of it was lost,
set up that they were not in fault; that the night was dark;
that the schooner had no lights; that she was seen first by
the head of her sails being lighted up by the steamer's lights.
These matters set up, however, were not proved.
On the contrary, although several witnesses who saw the
light of the schooner after the collision, testified that the green
or starboard light was dim, it was clearly proved that the
light was there; and there was very strong evidence to show
that it was burning brightly at the time of the collision,
having been specially examined both before and after it. It
appeared also that the officers of another steamer, the Electra, three-quarters of a mile in the rear of the City of Norwich and directly in her track, had seen the schooner a full
mile off, and some time before the occurrence happened;
they seeing her, as the pilot of the Electra testified, one
point on their port-bow when the City of Norwich was dead
ahead. This witness stated that the schooner was a mile off
fiom the Electra when he saw her, and that this was two,
minutes before the collision; that the City of Nowich blew
her whistle immediately after the collision; and that he discovered the schooner two or three minutes before he heard
the sound.
The District Court, after interlocutory decree in favor of
the libellants, and a reference to a master, and a report, decreed for the libellants, $19,975 for the schooner and $1921
for her cargo, with interest from tle date of the collision.
Before the decree was passed, the respondents filed a petition wherein they alleged that proceedings in rem had been

NORWICH

COMPANY

V.

WRIGHT.

[Suap. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

commenced in behalf of said parties against the steamer in
the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of New York for the recovery of damages for the loss of the
said cargo. They therefore prayed that they might be permitted to show by proper evidence the whole amount of
damages sustained by all of said parties, including the libellants, and the value of the steamer and her freight then
pending; and that the decree of the court might be so
framed as to give the libellants such part or proportion of
the amount of damages sustained by them as the value of
steamer and freight bore to the whole amount of damages
sustained by all parties by the collision. In reference to
this last defence the libellants insisted:
1. That the act does not embrace injuries to other vessels
by collision, but only injuries to, or loss of, cargo on board
the offending vessel; and
2. That if it did embrace injuries by collision, the District
Court, in that proceeding, had no power to give the respondents the relief which they sought.
The District Court held that cases of collision were within
the act, but deemed the jurisdiction of that court insufficient to give relief. On appeal the Circuit Court held that
cases of collision were not within the act. Hereupon the
libellants appealed to this court. The appeal brought up
all the questions in the cause.
Messrs. R. -H. Hluntley and C. 1. Ingersoll, in support of the
ruling below :
The act of 1851 does not apply in any of its sections to a
loss that may happen to any other ship or vessel (than the
owner's vessel), or to any goods, wares, or merchandise or
other thing being on board of any other ship or vessel.
The words "loss, damage, or injury by collision," in the
3d section, are to be construed by the context, and relate
only to the property to which the other branches of the section relate, that is, property "shipped, or put on board such
ship or vessel."
The circumstances which led to the passage of the act

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
Argument for the owners of the steamer.

were notorious. The packet ship Henry Clay, a large,
costly, and nearly new ship, lying at the wharf in the port
of New York, having nearly completed her lading and
being bound for Europe, took fire from some cause and was
burned, with a cargo already laden amounting in value to
perhaps half a million of dollars. Her owners, being losers
to a very large amount by the burning of the ship, were proceeded against by owners of cargo to compel payment to
them of its value. It was strenuously insisted, by way of
defence, that even without any such statutes as exist in
England, the owners could not be charged upon the usual
rule of liability of common carriers at common law. No
proof of actual fault or negligence, except so far as the occurrence of the fire in the ship might warrant such inference, was given or attempted. The owners were held liable.
Pending that action an effort was made to procure some
legislation from Congress to soften the rigor of the rule aeelared in that case.
Some years before the burning of the Henry Clay, and in
the night of the 13th of January, 1840, the steamboat Lexington was burned upon Long Island Sound, and the disaster was accompanied by a painful loss of life and the destruction of a large amount of property. Litigation ensued,
and the owners were held liable by this court, A.D. 1848, in
the New Jersey Steam Nav*ation Company v. The Merchants'
Bank.*
Both of these disasters and the hardships of the law
against ship-owners as common carriers were commented
upon in the 'debates which were had upon the act now in
question. And an examination of those debates shows that
it was the stringent rule of the common law which made
common carriers of property liable for all losses (except
such as were caused by the act of God or the public enemies), however free from actual fault or negligence, that was
the subject of comment; and the apparent purpose, so far as
it may be gathered from those debates, was to relax that
* B Howard, 844.

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

rule. Nothing is said of injuries to other vessels, or the
liability of ship-owners as principals for the tortious negligence of their ship-masters, officers, or crews, as their servants, by which the property of persons in no wise intrusted
to them received injury. Nor was the rule of the common
law which makes the master liable for the negligence of his
servant in his business, the subject of review, criticism, or
comment.

But passing to the act itself. It begins with a declaration
that ship-owners shall not be liable for loss or damage by
fire to any goods or merchandise whatever, shipped, taken
in, or put on board, unless such fire is caused by the design
or neglect of the owner. This has no other operation than
to affect their relations as common carriers. The proviso to
that section, that '' nothing in this act shall prevent the parties from making such contract as they please, extending or
limiting the liability of ship-owners," indicates that Congress believed that they were dealing with a question of liability which might be the subject of a contract, not with a
liability fbr tortious negligence to parties who stood, and
who could stand, in no relation of contract whatever with
such owners. The proviso, though annexed to the first section, applies plainly to the whole act.
It may be conceded that the third section contains terms
which, viewed apart from the residue of the act, are broad
enough to include injury to other vessels by collision. But
in the construction of statutes general words are restricted
in their meaning by the subject-matter of the statute, the
context and apparent intent; and in an enumeration of particulars followed by general terms, a restriction of the latter
to cases or things ejusdem generis is according to settled rule.
Thus in construing any particular clause or words of a statute
it is especially necessary to examine and consider the whole
statute, and gather if possible from the whole the intention
of the legislature.
Now in this act other sections have sole reference to the
relations of ship-owners as common carriers.

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

111

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

In the fourth section, the terms "goods, wares, or merchandise, or any property whatever," are equivalent to the
words in the third section, " any property, goods or merchandise," and of the words, "goods, wares, merchandise,
or other property" in the sixth section; in each of which
they relate solely to property of some kind put on board the
vessel. And the phrase is added "on the same voyage,"
to confine the participation in the apportionment to the
freighters for a single voyage, and not to permit the shipowners to bring into the compensation losses sustained on
prior or other voyages.
Our view has been affirmed in Massachusetts.*
If it is asked, what then do the words "for any loss, damage, or injury by collision," "or for any act, matter, or
thing, loss, damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or suffered," mean? the answer is, that having the responsibility
of carrier at the common law in view, a responsibility which
subjected the ship-owner for every loss not caused by the act
of God, or the public enemies, some such words were necessary to cover all the grounds of their liability as carriers.
It was not enough to specify "embezzlement, loss, or destruction by the master, officers, mariners, passengers, or
other persons " Collision and many other acts and things
might occasion loss or injury to property intrusted to them
as carriers, for whicl but for these words they would be responsible to the full amount. The collision in the case now
under consideration furnishes an illustration: for the City of
Norwich having on board a valuable cargo, that cargo was
lost by the collision, and that loss would be within the terms
of the section. Not only so, collision and many other acts,
matters, things, losses, damage, and injury might happen,
be "done, occasioned, or incurred," without any fault or
negligence either: of the ship-owners or their masters or
mariners, and be due solely to the fault or negligence of
other persons, or be an accident in such sense that faulty
negligence could be imputed to no one, and yet the ship* Walker v. Insurance Company, 14 Gray, 288.

NoRwICII

[Slip. Or.

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

owners would be liable. These classes of cases are there.
fore provided for, and are clearly within the design and
object of the statute. There is, therefore, a large field for
the operation of all the words of the third section, without
extending their meaning to an injury to another vessel or
goods on board thereof.
II. The act is made up from the English statutes of 7
George I, 1734, 26 George III, 1786, and 53 George III,
1813, and from a Massachusetts statute of 1818, and a Maine
statute of 1821. Many of its provisions are taken bodily
from those statutes, and their language cannot be interpreted
without recurring to the history of that legislation.
Now the decision in Boucher v. Lawson,* that the shipowner was answerable for an embezzlement of the cargo by
the master, occasioned the statute 7 George II. This statute
limited the owner's liability in respect of the wrongful acts of
the master and mariners, such as "embezzlement or otherral.
versation." "This act," said Buller, J., in Sullon v. Hitchell,t
"is as strong as possible, and was meant to protect the owner
against all treachery in the master or mariners." It was passed
for the protection of the ship-owner as a carrier. Freighters,
and owners of property on board his vessel, but no one else,
were aflected by the limitation it placed on his liability.
The statute of 26 George III, 1786, followed the decision
in Sutton v. Mitchell. By it the ship-owner's liability was
now further limited, when his freighters lost their goods by
robbery or fire on board his vessel. But if his vessel had
by negligence set fire to another vessel and her cargo, the
statute did not relieve him fron his common law responsibility. It is also certain that his liability was not limited by
this act in case of any loss happening, even to his own
freighters, by collision.
The statute 53 George I1, 1813, which was next passed,
made important innovations. It specifically contemplated
two descriptions of losses, one to the cargo laden on board the
ship, and the other to a disconnected ship and her cargo. It
* Reports Temp. Hardwicke, p. 8.5.

t" 1 Term, 20.

Dec. 1871.]

1ToRwICH COMPANY

V. WRIGHT.

Argument for the owners of the steamer.

also, for the first time, contemplated acts omiled to be done,
"neglects," as well as acts to be done, without the fault or
privity of the owner. Its main provision was as follows:
"That no person or persons who is, are, or shall be, owner or
owners, a part owner or part owners, of any ship or vessel,
shall be subject or liable to answer for or make good any loss or
damage arising or taking place by reason of any act, neglect,
matter, or thing done, omitted, or occasioned, without the fault
or privity of such owner or owners, which may happen to any
goods, wares, or merchandise, or other thing laden or put on
board the same ship or vessel after the 1st of September, 1813,
or which, after the said 1st September, 1813, may happen to any
other ship or vessel, or to any goods, wares, or merchandise, or other
thing, being in or on board of any other ship or vessel, further than
the value of his or their ship or: vessel, and the freight due, or
to grow due, for and during the voyage, which may be in prosecution or contracted for, at the time of the happening of such
loss or damage."
INo language can be clearer than that which it was h6re
deemed necessary to employ in extending the limitation to
other property than that on board the ship. It was not
until after, and in full view of all this legislation by Great
Britain, that any act was passed in this country limiting the
common law liability of the ship-owner to any extent.
Statutes of Massachusetts and Maine comprise all the legislation in the United States before the act of Congress of
1851. The act of 1851 is copied largely from them.
The statutes of Massachusetts and Maine ignore the act
of 53 George III. Both relate only to the loss by embezzlement or other malversation of the master or mariners
of the property on board the ship. The words which are
copied into both of them from the English statute, "any
act,, matter, or thing, damage or forfeiture done, occasioned
or incurred by the said master or mariners without the
privity or knowledge of such owner," can relate, as they
manifestly do in the English act, only to acts done affecting
the property on board the ship.
I. But if our view in all this matter is wrong, and. the
VOL. XIII.

8

NI0RWIcH COMPANY

V.

WRIGHT.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

act of 1851 has the scope claimed for it on the other side,
there remains the point made by the District Court, to wit,
that that court cannot give relief. It is obvious that the
action asked for is the action of a court of equity. But our
District Courts are not courts of equity.
Moreover this proceeding is not an "appropriate proceeding" to enforce an apportionment. The defendants do not
prove that they have paid or offered to pay to any one the
value of their vessel; but only that certain undetermined
claims for damages subsist against them. Where is the
power to convert this simple proceeding between two persons into a proceeding for the condemnation of property and
the apportionment of a fund in which many other persons
living in various jurisdictions may be interested?
Messrs. G. B. _flibbard, E. II. Owen, and .. Halsey, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appeal brings up all the questions in the cause. The
first one is which vessel was in fault. And on this point we
are satisfied from an examination of the evidence in the case
with the finding of the District and Circuit Courts as to the
responsibility of the steamboat for the happening of the
collision. There is very strong evidence to show that the
schooner's light was burning brightly, it being specially examined both before and after the collision; and that the
vessel could be seen, and was seen, by another steamer a
full mile off just before the collision happened. The Electra
was three-fourths of a mile in rear of the City of Norwich,
directly in her track, and her officers saw the schooner some
time before the occurrence. They saw her one point on
their port bow when the City of Norwich was dead ahead.
Now, the course of the schooner was nearly at right angles
to that of the two steamers. If, therefore, she was one point
on the port bow of the Electra, when a mile distant, it required but little calculation to show that at that time she
must have been between an eighth and a quarter of a mile
from the line of direction in which the two steamers were

Dec. 1871.]

NonwicH

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

Opinion of the court.

sailing. As she was making three or four knots an hour,
and as the City of Norwich was making twelve, it must have
taken the schooner, after this, two or fhree minutes to get
up to the line of direcfion of the City of Norwich, during
which time the latter would traverse nearly half a mile. So
that when the schooner was first seen from the Electra she
must have been half a mile distant from the City of Norwich, and, therefore, the theory of the claimants that she
was only to be seen by reason of the lights from the City of
Norwich shining on her sails, falls to the ground. If, therefore, she was seen from the Electra, more than a mile distant, she ought to have been seen from the City of Norwich,
which was three-fourths of a mile nearer to her. All the
circumstances mentioned by the pilot of the Electra corroborate these conclusions. He says that the schooner was a
mile off from the Electra when he saw her, and that this was
"two minutes before the collision." He adds that the steamer
City of Norwich blew her whistle immediately after the
collision, and that he discovered the schooner two or three
minutes before he heard the whistle. This evidence is adverted to, because it is of that circumstantial nature which
often demonstrates the truth more strongly than the most
positive testimony. It may be added that it is corroborated
in many particulars by other evidence in the cause. As to
her lights, it is admitted, or at least clearly proved, that the
schooner had a green light in the proper place; but several
witnesses say it was a dim light. It is proper to observe
that nearly all those who say this only saw the light after the
collision, the shock of which may have temporarily affected
the brilliancy of the lamp. But, without pursuing the subject further, it is sufficient to say, that in our opinion the
evidence is clear that the steamer was in fault in not seeing
the schooner in time to prevent a collision. It was her duty
to keep out of the way of the schooner; she was not only
propelled by steam, but the schooner was beating against a
head wind. So that every circumstance in the case cast the
duty of avoiding a collision upon the steamer. Her liability
is clear.

116

NoRwIcH

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The next question is, whether the owners of the steamer
are entitled to the benefits of the act of 1851, limiting the
liability of ship-owners to the amount of their interest in
the vessel and her freight; and, if so, whether they can have
relief in the District Court in the proceedings instituted
against them. This involves the true construction of that
act; and, to reach this, it may be useful to take a cursory
view of previous legislation on the subject in other countries
as well as in this.
The history of the limitation of liability of ship-owners
is matter of common knowledge. The learned opinion of
Judge Ware in the case of The Rebecca,* leaves little to be
desired on the subject. He shows that it originated in the
maritime law of modern Europe; that whilst the civil, as
well as the common, law made the owner responsible to the
whole extent of damage caused by the wrongful act or negligence of the master or crew, the maritime law only made
them liable (if personally free from blame) to the amount of
their interest in the ship. So that, if they surrendered the
ship, they were discharged.
Grotius, in his law of War and Peace,t says that men
would be deterred from investing in ships if they thereby
incurred the apprehension of being rendered liable to an indefinite amount by the acts of the master, and therefore, in
Holland, they had never observed the -Roman law on that
subject, but had a regulation that the ship-owners should be
bound no farther than the value of their ship and freight.
The maritime law, as codified in the celebrated French Ordonnance de la Marine, in 1681, expressed the rule thus:
"The proprietors of vessels shall be responsible for the acts
of the master, but they shall be discharged by abandoning
the ship and freight." Valin, in his commentary on this
* Ware, 187,194.
t

Book 2, c. 11,

13.

His words are: "Aav

"the ship and goods therein."

s

et eorumn quae in navi sunt,"

But he is speaking of the owner's interest;

and this, as to the cargo, is the freight thereon ; and in that sense he is

understood by the commentators.-Boulay Paty, Droit Maritime, tit. 3, }1,
p. 276.

Dec. 1871.]

NoRwIci COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

117

Opinion of the court.

passage,* after specifying certain engagements of the master
which are binding on the owners, without any limit of responsibility, such as contracts for the benefit of the vessel,
made during the voyage (except contracts of bottomry), says:
"With these exceptions it is just that the owner should not
be bound for the acts of the master, except to the amount
of the ship and freight. Otherwise he would run the risk
of being ruined by the bad faith or negligence of his captain, and the apprehension of this would be fatal to the interests of navigation. It is quite sufficient that he be exposed
to the loss of his ship and of the freight, to make it his interest, independently of any goods he may have on board,
to select a reliable captain." Pardessus says: t "The owner
is bound civilly for all delinquencies committed by the captain within the scope of his authority, but he may discharge
himself therefrom by abandoning the ship and freight; and,
if they are lost, it suffices for his discharge, to surrender all
claims in respect of the ship and its freight," such as insurance, &c.
The same general doctrine is laid down by many other
writers on maritime law. So that it is evident that, by this
law, the owner's liability was coextensive with his interest
in the vessel and its freight, and ceased by his abandonment
and surrender of these to the parties sustaining loss.
This rule, to a partial extent, was adopted in England by
the act of 7 George II, passed in 1734. By this act, after reciting that it was of the greatest consequence to the kingdom
to promote the increase of the number of ships, and to prevent any discouragement to merchants and others from being
interested and concerned therein, it was enacted that no shipowner should be responsible for loss or damage to goods on
board the ship by embezzlement of the master or mariners,
without his privity or knowledge, further than the value of
the ship and her appurtenances, and the freight due thereon
for the voyage; and, if greater damage occurred, it should
be averaged among those who sustained it. By 26 George
* Lib. 2, tit. 8, art. 2.

t Droit Commercial, part 3, tit. 2, c. 3,

2.

IORWICH

COMPANY V.

WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

111 (1786) this limitation of liability was extended to robbery and to losses in which the master and mariners had no
part, and liability for loss by fire was entirely removed, as
well as liability for loss of gold and jewelry, unless its nature
and value were disclosed. By 53 George I1 (1313), the
liability limitation of ship-owners was still further extended
to cases of loss by negligence of the master and mariners, and
to damage done to other ships and their cargoes, including
of course, cases of collision. In the first two of these statutes
it was provided that if the loss or damage fell on more than
one party, either the parties injured or the ship-owners
might file a bill in equity to ascertain the whole amount of
loss on the one side and the value of the offending vessel
and her freight on the other, so as to have a proper distribution of the latter, pro rata, amongst those who sustained
damage. The last statute gave this remedy to the shipowners alone, it being for their benefit and intended to prevent a multiplicity of suits against them. But they were
obliged to pay the value of the vessel and her freight into
court, or to give security for the amount, and to acknowledge
their liability, inasmuch as the court of chancery would not
investigate the question of liability. That being done, they
were entitled to a stay of all suits brought against them for
damages.*
Under these statutes the English courts, since the passage
of the act of 53 George III (the question does not seem to
have arisen before), have held that the value of the ship and
freight was to be estimated as it stood immediately prior to
the injury, so that if the ship were lost by the occurrence
which caused it, or at any subsequent period before the
completion of the voyage, the ship-owners were still liable
for that value. The statutes contained no provision for a
surrender and assignment of the ship and freight, but only
for paying their value into court.t These decisions, it will
* See Abbott on Shipping, part 4, chap. 7.
t See Abbott on Shipping, part 4, chap. 7, 5; Wilson v. Dickson, 2 Barnewall & Alderson, 2; Cannan v. Meaburn, 1 Bingham, 465; Brown v. Wilkizson, 15 Meeson & "Welsby, 391 ; Dobree v. Schrceder, 2 Mylne & Craig,

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

be seen, create an important distinction between the English
statute law and the maritime law.
Statutes similar in principle to the English acts were
passed in 1818 and 1821 by the legislatures of Massachusetts
and Maine, differing slightly in form. They limited the
liability of the ship-owner to the amount of his interest in
the ship and freight for any embezzlement or damage occasioned by the master or mariners without his privity or
knowledge, and provided that if the loss or damage were
sustained by several persons, and should be more than the
value of the offending ship and its freight, either the persons
so injured or the ship-owner, or both, might file a bill in
equity for discovery and payment of the amount for which
the owner might be liable, among those entitled thereto.
In 1841 the law of France was amended so as to operate
still further to the advantage of the ship-owner, by enabling
him to obtain, by abandonment of ship and freight, a complete discharge, not only from responsibility for the acts and
defaults of the captain, but also for all his engagements and
contracts relative to the ship and the voyage.
In the light of all this previous legislation, the act of Congress was passed in 1851. As we have seen, by the maritime law, the liability of the ship-owner was limited to his
interest in the ship and freight for all torts of the master
and seamen, whether by collisions or anything else, and
sometimes even for the master's contracts; and his liability
was so strictly limited that he was discharged by giving up
that interest, or by the vessel being lost on the voyage, and
the maritime courts found no difficulty in carrying this law
into execution. By the English law, as constituted by acts
of Parliament, the owner's liability was limited to the
amount and value of ship and freight at the time of injury,
for damages to cargo and damages to other vessels by collision; but from the restricted jurisdiction of the English
admiralty courts, in order to get complete relief where there
were many persons suffering damage, the ship-owners were
489; The M ary Caroline, 3 W. Robinson, 101; Leycester v. Logan, 3 Kay
& Johnson, 446.

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct

Opinion of the court.

obliged to resort to a bill in chancery. The laws of Maine
and Massachusetts seem to have limited the ship-owner's
liability in cases of damage to cargo alone; and for complete
relief, they refer him to a proceeding in equity.
The act of Congress seems to have been drawn with
direct reference to all these previous laws, and with them
before us, its language seems to be not difficult of construction. The first section exempts ship-owners from loss or
damage by fire to goods on board the ship, unless caused by
their own neglect. The second exempts the owners and
master from liability for loss or damage to jewelry, precious
metals, or money put on board the ship, unless its character
and value be disclosed in writing. These two provisions
were substantially contained in the English law of 1786.
The third section, which is the one in question, is in the
following words:
"The liability of the owner or owners of any ship or
vessel, for any embezzlement, loss, or destruction, by the
master, officers, mariners, passengers, or any other person
or persons, of any property, goods, or merchandise, shipped
or put on board of such ship or vessel, or for any loss, damage, or injury by collision, or for any act, matter, or thing, loss,
damage, or forfeiture, done, occasioned, or incurred, without
the privity or knowledge of such owner or owners, shall in
no case exceed the amount or value of the interest of such
owner or owners respectively, in such ship or vessel, and
her freight then pending."
Here the owner's liability is limited to the amount or
value of his interest in the vessel and freight, but the section
does not define at what time that interest is to be taken.
The limitation embraces not only loss or damage happening
to goods on board, but " any loss, damage, or injury by collision." The latter claim is independent of the preceding
one. It cannot be read to mean, "loss or injury [to the
goods on board] by collision," without an unauthorized interpolation. If it had said "loss, damage, or injury [thereto]
by collision," it would have been confined to the goods on
board the vessel. But it does not so read. The section as

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

121

Opinion of the court.

.constructed limits the ship-owners' liability in three classes
of damage or wrong-happening without their privity, and
by the fault or neglect of the master or other persons on
board, viz.: 1st, damage to goods on board; 2d, damage by
collision to other vessels and their cargoes; 3d, any other
damage or forfeiture done or incurred.
In view of the fact that the limited liability of ship-owners
was, by the general maritime law, extended to all acts of the
master except contracts for the benefit of the ship, and in

most places even to these; and of the fact, that the English
statutes expressly extended it to cases of collision as well as
to injuries to cargoes; we see no reason why the fair natural
construction should not be given to the act of 1851, which
makes an equally broad application of the rule, and there is
nothing in the reason of the thing that should lead us to
evade such a construction. The great object of the law was
to encourage ship-building and to induce capitalists to invest
money in this branch of industry. Unless they can be in-

duced to do so, the shipping interests of the country must
flag .and decline. Those who are willing to manage and
work ships are generally unable to build and fit them. They
have plenty of hardiness and personal daring and enterprise,
but they have little capital. On the other hand, those who
have capital, and invest it in ships, incur a very large risk in
exposing their property to the hazards of the sea, and to the
management of seafaring men, without making them liable
for additional losses and damage to an indefinite amount.
How many enterprises in mining, manufacturing, and internal improvements would be utterly impracticable if capitalists were not encouraged to invest in them through corporate institutions by which they are exempt from personal
liability, or from liability except to a limited extent ? The
public interests require the investment of capital in shipbuilding, quite as much as in any of these enterprises. And
if there exist good reasons for exempting innocent shipowners from liability, beyond the amount of their interest,
for loss or damage to goods carried in their vessels, precisely
the same reasons exist for exempting them to the same ex-

NoRwIcI

COMPANY

V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tent from personal liability in cases of collision. In the one
case as in the other, their property is in the hands of agents
whom they are obliged to employ.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the respondents were
entitled to the benefit of the act of 1851, as against the claim
of the libellants.
But the claim of the libellants alone is not alleged to be
greater than the value of the steamer and her freight. The
libellants, therefore, would be entitled to receive the whole
amount of this damage, if they were the only persons who
sustained damage, or if, by reason of the nature of their
claim, their lien was superior to that of the owners of the
cargo lost on the steamer. Liens for reparation for wrong
done are superior to any prior liens for money borrowed,
wages, pilotage, &c. But they stand on an equality with
regard to each other if they arise from the same cause.*
We think, therefore, that the lien of the libellants for the
loss of the schooner and her cargo, arising from the collision,
is on an equality with the lien for the loss of the cargo of
the steamer, from the same cause. This being so, the case
for the application of the statute arises; for it is alleged by
the libellants that the damage to the schooner and her cargo,
together with the damage arising from the loss of the steamer's cargo, greatly exceeds the value of the steamer and her
freight for the voyage.
W'e are, therefore, brought to the question whether the
District Court had jurisdiction, under the fourth section of
the act, to grant the respondents relief by any proceeding to
apportion the damages.
As we have seen, it is declared by the third section that
the liability of ship-owners for loss or damage, &c., shall not
exceed the amount or value of their interest in the ship and
her freight then pending. And by the fourth section it is
provided:
"If any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction shall be
suffered by several freighters or ownzers of goods, wares, or
* Maclachlan on Mlerchant Shipping, 698.

Dec. 1871.]

TORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

merchandise, or any properly whatever, on the same voyage,
and the whole value of the ship or vessel, and her freight
for the voyage, shall not be sufficient to make compensation
to each of them, they shall receive compensation from the
owner or owners of the ship or vessel, in proportion to their
respective losses, and for that purpose the said freighters
and owners of the property, and the owner or owners of the
ship or vessel, or any of them, may take the appropriate
proceedings in any court, for the purpose of apportioning
the sum for which the owner or owners of the ship or vessel
may be liable amongst the parties entitled thereto. And it
shall be deemed a sufficient compliance with the requirements of this act, on the part of such owner or owners, if he
or they shall transfer his or their interest in such vessel and
freight, for the benefit of such claimants, to a trustee, to be
appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction, to act as
such trustee for the person or persons who may prove to be
legally entitled thereto, from and after which transfer all
claims and proceedings against the owner or owners shall
cease."
The act does not state what court shall be resorted to, nor
what proceedings shall be taken; but that the parties, or any
of them, may take "the appropriateproceedings in any court,

for the purpose of apportioning the sum for which, &c."
Now, no court is better adapted than a court of admiralty to
administer precisely such relief. It happens every day that
the proceeds of a vessel, or other fund, is brought into that
court to be distributed amongst those whom it may concern.
Claimants are called in by monition to present and substantiate their respective claims; and the fund is divided and
distributed according to the respective liens and rights of
all the parties. Congress might have invested the Circuit
Courts of the United States with the jurisdiction of such
cases by bill in equity, but it did not. It is also evident that
the State courts have not the requisite jurisdiction. Unless,
therefore, the District Courts themselves can' administer the
law, we are reduced to the dilemma of inferring that the
legislature has passed a law which is incapable of execution.

NORWICH

COMPANY V.

WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

This is never to be done if it can be avoided. We have no
doubt that the District Courts, as courts of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, have jurisdiction of the matter; and
this court undoubtedly has the power to make all needful
rules and regulations for facilitating the course of proceeding.
It is to be observed, however, that if the ship-owner desires the intervention of the court, it will not be sufficient
for him simply to ask for a pro rata reduction of the libellants' damages, without, in some manner, tendering the
corresponding pro rata compensation to which other parties,
whose claims he sets up against the libellants, are entitled.
Otherwise, he might reduce the libellants' claim without
ever being obliged to respond to the other parties. The
libellants are, in fact, directly interested in the existence or
non-existence of the other claims for damage. If these are
established, they must suffer an abatement; if not, they will
be entitled to recover their entire damage. It follows, therefore, that the ship-owner must either admit the claims for
damage which he thus sets up, or must ask the court to have
them adjudicated. In the English practice, as the court of
chancery does not investigate demands in admiralty, it required the complainant (the ship-owner) to admit his liability
in advance. This is, perhaps, not necessary in an admiralty
court. But it is, at least, necessary that proceedings should
be instituted for ascertaining the coexisting claims which are
to antagonize and operate as a means of reducing the claim
of the libellants.
But in order to proceed regularly the court must have
possession of the limited liability fund-that is, the proceeds
or value of the ship and freight. It cannot distribute a
fund of which it has not the possession. If the vessel were
libelled, and either sold or appraised, and her value deposited
in court, this sum, together with the amount of the freight
(when proper to be added), would constitute the res, or fund
for distribution. The case 'Would then be free from difficulty. But the present case is a libel in personam in the
District of Connecticut, and the steamer has, in fact, been

Dec. 1871.]

NORWIcO

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

Opinion of the court.

libelled in the Eastern District of New York, and she, or her
value, is detained there. The respondents have not paid, or
offered to pay, the fund into the District Court for the District of Connecticut. Nor do they allege that they have
applied to the District Court for the Eastern District of New
York, where the fund is, to apportion the damages incurred.
Had they done this, that court might have acquired jurisdiction of the case, and made it the duty of the District
Court of Connecticut, on being duly certified of the fact, to
suspend further proceedings and leave the libellants to present their claim in the court of New York.
The proper course of proceeding for obtaining the benefit
of the act would seem to be this: When a libel for damage
is filed, either against the ship in rem or the owners in personam, the latter (whether with or without an answer to the
merits) should file a proper petition for an apportionment of
the damages according to the statute, and should pay into
court (if the vessel or its proceeds is not already there), or
give due stipulation for, such sum as the court may, by
proper inquiry, find to be the amount of the limited liability,
or else surrender the ship and freight by assigning them to
a trustee in the manner pointed out in the fourth section.
Having done this, the ship-owner will be entitled to a monition against all persons to appear and intervene pro interesse
suo, and to an order restraining the prosecution of' other
suits. If an action should be brought in a State court the
ship-owner should file a libel in admiralty, with a like surrender or deposit of the fund, and either plead the fact in
bar in the State court or procure an order from the District
Court to restrain the further prosecution of the suit. The
court having jurisdiction of the case, under and by virtue
of the act of Congress, would have the right to enforce its
jurisdiction and to ascertain and determine the rights of the
parties. For aiding parties in this behalf, and facilitating'
proceedings in the District Courts, we have prepared some
rules which will be announced at an early day.*
See these Rules, supra, vii.

NoRWIcH COMPANY

V.

WRIGHT.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

The difficulty with the respondents in this case is, that
they have not taken the proper steps, in the proper court, to
enable them to avail themselves of the benefit of the act.
The want of any uniform practice on the subject may, perhaps, be a sufficient excuse for not having done this. If
proceedings are still pending in the Eastern District of New
York it is not yet too late to initiate proper proceedings
there for making an apportionment in the case. Meantime
the decree already made must be allowed to stand at least
for the purpose of showing the respondents' liability to the
libellants, and the actual amount of damage which the latter
have sustained, as the basis of an apportionment. The court
below will be instructed to suspend further proceedings on
the decree until reasonable time has been given to the respondents to take the proper steps in the District Court,
where the fund is, for settling and closing up the claims of
all parties interested therein.
This view of the case renders it necessary to determine
another question arising in the cause for the guidance of the
parties and the courts below. This is, whether the respondents, in order to avail themselves of the benefits of the act
of 1851, may surrender the steamer itself, and any freight
that may have accrued, under the fourth section of the act,
without paying into court anything further, or whether they
are bound to pay, or give security for, the value of the
steamer at the time of the collision, and of the freight for the
voyage. It will be necessary to know this at the first step
in the proceedings. The probability is, that no freight ever
actually accrued, as the cargo was never delivered in New
York. Still, if the construction given by the English courts
to their statute is to be followed, it matters not whether
freight actually accrued or not. The owners would still be
liable for what would have accrued had the voyage termi"nated prosperously; and it also matters not whether the
steamer were lost or greatly injured. The owners would be
liable for her value immediately prior to the collision.
But it will be observed that the act of Congress contains
a provision for the ship-owner to discharge himself, as in the

Dec. 1871.]

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
Opinion of the court.

maritime law, by giving up the vessel and her freight. This
provision is not contained in any of the English or State
statutes, and could not have been inserted in the act of Congress without direct reference to the like provision of the
maritime codes. Could it have been inserted for any other
purpose than to adopt the rule of that code? This is a question of much interest and importance.
The Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in a case much
considered,* adopted the English rule, and held that a shipowner, where the ship is lost, cannot have the benefit of the
act, allowing him to relieve himself from responsibility by
abandoning the ship and freight, because he cannot comply
with its terms by assigning them. But surely, if the privilege exists when the vessel has been damaged at all (as it
would seem that it must, if the act is to have any meaning),
how can it cease to exist by any amount or degree of damage? And if the privilege exists, as long as there is anything left of the vessel to be transferred, it cannot cease
when she is entirely destroyed. That would be to stand
upon too nice a point of logic in giving a reasonable and
practical construction to a statute. It would be to punish
the unfortunate ship-owner, because his loss is total instead
of partial. The late Judge Kane, of the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, in the case of Watson v. Marks,t held that the
act had adopted the maritime rule, and his reasoning on the
subject is very forcible and satisfactory. We do not hesitate
to express our decided conviction, that the rule of the maritime law on this subject, so far as relates to torts, was intended to be adopted by the act of 1851.
It is objected, however, that the fourth section of the act
does not embrace cases of damage by collision, even though
they are included in the third section. But an examination
of the fourth section will show that its language is very
broad. Coming immediately after the provisions of the
third section, which, as we have seen, provide for all kinds
of loss, damage, and destruction (damage by collision in* Walker v. Insurance Company, 14 Gray, 288.
t- 2 American Law Register, 157.

*NITED

STATES V.

KLEIN.

[Slip. Or.

Syllabus.

eluded), it says, that if any such embezzlement, loss, or destruction shall be suffered by several freighters or owners of
goods, wares, or merchandise, or any property whatever, on
the same voyage, and the whole value of the ship or vessel,
and her freight for the voyage, shall not be sufficient, &c.
Surely this language is broad enough to cover damage by
collision, as well as other damages. And the close connection and dependency of the two sections, require a construction to be given to the one coextensive with that given to
the other, if it can possibly be done without violence to the
language.
The decree of the Circuit Court will be affirmed, with directions to suspend further proceedings thereon until the
respondents (the appellants in this court), shall have had
such reasonable time as the Circuit Court may deem sufficient for taking the proper proceedings in the District Court
for the Eastern District of New York, for apportioning the
damage sustained by the various parties in this case. The
costs in this court and the courts below to be equally divided
between the libellants and the respondents. Also, process
against the stipulators to be suspended to abide the event of
the suit.
Mr. Justice STRONG was not present at the argument in
this case, and took no part in the judgment.

UNITED STATES V.

KLEIN.

1. The act of March 12th, 1868 (12 Stat. at Large, 820), to provide for the
collection of abandoned and captured property in insurrectionary districts
within the United States, does not confiscate, or in any case absolutely

divest the property of the original owner, even though disloyal.

By

the seizure the government constituted itself a trustee for those who
were entitled or whom it should thereafter recognize as entitled.

2. By virtue of the act of 17th July, 1862, authorizing the President to offer
pardon on such conditions as he might think advisable, and the proclamation of 8th December, 1863, which promised a restoration of all rights

