:Dec. 1871.]

114YERS V, CROFT.
Syllabus.

which they present, if the law arising upon the evidence is
given by the court with such fulness as to guide correctly
the jury in its findings, as was the case here; nor is a judgment to be set aside because the charge of the court may be
open to some verbal criticisms, in particulars considered
apart by themselves, which could not when taken with the
rest of the charge have misled a jury of ordinary intelligence. The propriety of the rulings of the court in this
case is fully vindicated in its opinion on the motion for a
new trial.
The evidence of the condition of the deceased-that she
was enceinte at the time of the accident-could not materially
have affected the jury in the estimation of the damages, after
the clear and explicit charge of the 'court, as to the character of the damages which only they were authorized to consider.
The other evidence in the case, to the admission of which
objection was taken, was not material, and could not have
influenced the result.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

MYERS V. CROFT.
1. When the grantee in a deed is described in a way which is a proper
enough description of an incorporated company, capable of holding
land, as ex. gr., "The Sulphur Springs La'nd Company," the court, in
the absence of any proof whatever to the contrary, will presume that
the company was capable in law to take a conveyance of real estate.
2. A grantor not having perfect title who conveys for full value is estopped,
both himself and others claiming by subsequent grant from him, against
denying title; a perfect title afterwards coming to him.
8. Under the 12th section of the act of September, 1841, "to appropriate
the proceeds of the sales of public lands and to grant pre-emption
rights "--which section, after prescribing the manner in which the
proof of settlement and improvements shall be made before the land
is entered, has a provision that "all assignments and transfers of the
rights hereby secured, prior to the issuing of the patent, shall be null
and void "-a pre-emptor who has entered the land, and who, at the
time, is the owner in good faith, and has done nothing inconsistent

292

MYERS V.

CROFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
with the provisions of the law on the subject, may sell even though he
has not yet obtained a patent. The disability extends only to the
assignment of the pre-emption right.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Nebraska;
the case being thus:
Ail act of Congress entitled "An act to appropriate the
proceeds of the sales of the public lands, and to grant preemption rights," approved September 4th, 1841, after prescribing the manner in which the proof of settlement and
improvement shall be made before the land is entered, has
this proviso: "and all assignments and transfers of the right
hereby secured prior to the issuing of the patent shall be null and
void."
Under and by virtue of this act, one Fraily, on the 3d of
September, 1857, entered a quarter-section of land in Nebraska, at the land office for the Omaha land district, with
the register thereof.
On the same 3d of September, 1857-no letters patent
having as yet issued to him-in consideration of $36,000, as
appeared on the face of the deed, he conveyed by a warrantee deed the premises to "The Sulphur Springs Land
Company;" the company being not otherwise described in
the instrument, and there being nothing in the instrument
or in other proof to show whether the said grantee was a
corporation and capable of taking land or an unincorporated
company.
On the 1st of May, 1860-more than two years after the
date of the deed above mentioned-raily made another
deed, for the sum, as appeared by the instrument, of $6000,
to a certain Myers.
In this state of things Myers sued Croft, who was in
under the company, in ejectment, to try the title to the land.
And the deed to " The Sulphur Springs Land Company"
being in evidence on the part of the defendant, the plaintiff
moved the court to rule it from the jury, for the reasons:
1st. That he had not shown that the Sulphur Springs
Land Company was an organization capable of receiving the
conveyance of land; and,

Dec. 1871.]

MYERS V.

CROFT.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

2d. That under the provisions of the act of Congress,
already quoted, the deed was void.
The court overruled the motion, charging contrariwise,
that the deed was valid and passed the title to the premises.
To this ruling and charge the plaintiff excepted, and judgment having been given for the defendant the case was now
here.

Messrs. N. Cobb and L. Douglass, for the plaintiff in error:
1st. Although the Sulphur Springs Land Company, as we
may here admit, was in fact incorporated, the fact nowhere
appears in proof. Being a chartered company it was incumbent on the defendant to show the terms of the charter, and
that by them the company could take the lands.
If not a corporation, the deed was void for want of certainty in the name of the grantee.
2d. Does the 12th section of the act of Congress of September 4th, 1841, intend to prohibit the pre-emptor from all
alienation of the property which he has acquired under the
pre-emption act prior to the issuing of the patent, or does it
intend simply to prevent the transfer of the right to preempt?
The former view is the one best sustained by the statute.
That is the way it reads; and when a statute is plain, it
should not be frittered away by refinements. Until payment
made for the land and certificate of purchase procured the
pre-emptor has nothing which he can assign. If after certificate of purchase was obtained, there was intended to be
no restriction on the sale of the land by the pre-emptor,
why did the act use the words "prior to the issuing of the
patent ?"
The other view is, that the right secured is the right to
pre-empt: and that this right is fully secured when the purchase is made of the United States. The right thus preferably to purchase cannot be transferred, and it is this alone
(it may be argued) which is prohibited. If so, why did the
statute use the words "prior to the issuing of the patent,"
instead of prior to the issuing of the certificate? Congress

MYERS V.

CROFT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

knew the difference between a certificate of purchase and a
patent. They are different instruments and subserve a different purpose. The certificate shows that the party has
entered the land aiid is entitled to a patent at some future
time; the patent transfers the title.
According to, the course of business ordinarily, patents do
not issue for years after the entry is made. This case proves
that fact, and it is not unreasonable to suppose Congress
was apprised of that fact.
The view we take of this law best accords with the policy
of the pre-emption privilege. The object of the government
was, in fact, to induce settlements upon the public lands,
but chiefly to confer the preferable right to purchase on
those persons, usually in indigent circumstances, who actually settled or improved them. It was not to aid the speculator in lands.*
Pre-emptions for purposes of speculations will be less
likely to be made if the pre-emptor is obliged to wait until
the patent issues before he can alienate.
There was a similar provision in the act of 29th May,
1830.t The language of the two acts is almost literally the
same. By the act of January 23d, 1832,1 the prohibition
as to assignment and transfers of the right of pre-emption
contained in the act of 1830 is removed, and it is provided
that " all persons who have purchased lands under the act
of May 29th, 1830, may assign and transfer their certificates
of purchase or final receipts, and patents may issue in the
name of such assignee, anything in the act aforesaid to the
contrary notwithstanding." This shows that it was understood by Congress as restricting alienations by the pre-emptor, after payment and before patent issued. The effect of
allowing such transfers was such that Congress, in passing
the carefully-framed act of September 4th, 1841, renewed
the prohibition against transfers which was contained in the
act of 1830. The government had witnessed the practical
effect of both policies, and the judgment of Congress as era* AMarks v. Dickson, 20 Howard, 501, 505.

t 4 Stat. at Large, 420,

3.

Ib. 496.

Dec. 1871.]

MYERS V.

CROFT.

Opinion of the court.

bodied in the latter act as to which is the better policy should
be respected by the courts, and the language of the statute
should be allowed its fair and natural meaning.
Though the point has never been before this court, it has
frequently been before the State courts, and they have with
great uniformity held that the pre-emptor had no transferable interest prior to the issuing of the patent.*
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court,
In relation to the first objection-that the Sulphur Springs
Land Company was not a competent grantee to receive the
title-it is sufficient to say, in the absence of any proof whatever on the subject, that it will be presumed the land company was capable, in law, to take a conveyance of real estate.
'Besides, neither Fraily, who made the deed, nor Myers, who
claims under him, is in a position to question the capacity
of the company to take the title after it has paid to Fraily
full value for the 'roperty.t
- The other objection is of a more serious character, and
depends for its solution upon the construction to be given
the last clause of the 12th section of the act of Congress of
September 4th, 1841. The act itself is one of a series of
pre-emption laws conferring upon the actual settler upon a
quarter section of public land the privilege (enjoyed by no
one else) of purchasing it, on complying with certain prescribed conditions. It had been the well-defined policy of
Congress, in passing these laws, not to allow their benefit to
enure to the profit of land speculators, but this wise policy
was often defeated. Experience had proved that designing
persons, being unable to purchase valuable lands, on account
of their withdrawal from sale, would procure middle men
to occupy them temporarily, with indifferent improvements,
* Arbour v. Nettles, 12 Louisiana An. 217; Poirrier v. White, 2 Id. 934;
Penn v. Ott, 12 Id. 233; Stanbrough v. Wilson, 13 Id. 494; Stevens v. Hays,
1 Indiana, 247; McElyea v. Hayter, 2 Porter (Ala.), 148; Cundiff v. Orms,
7 Id. 58; Glenn v. Thistle, 23 Mississippi, 42-49; Wilkerson v. Mayfield,
27 Id. 542; McTyer v. McDowell, 36 Alabama, 39; Paulding v. Grimsley,
10 Missouri, 210.
j- Smith v. Sheeley, 12 Wallace, 358.

M/yERuS v.

CROFT.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

under an agreement to convey them so soon as they were
entered by virtue of their pre-emption rights. When this
was done, and the speculation accomplished, the lands were
abandoned.
This was felt to be a serious evil, and Congress, in the
law under consideration, undertook to remedy it by requiring of the applicant for a pre-emption, before he was allowed
to enter the land on which he had settled, to swear that he
had not contracted it away, nor settled upon it to sell it on
speculation, but, in good faith, to appropriate it to his own
use. In case of false swearing the pre-emptor was subject
to a prosecution for peijury, and forfeited the money he had
paid for the land; and any grant or conveyance made by him
before the entry was declared null and.void, with an exception
in favor of bond fide purchasers for a valuable consideration.
It is contended by the plaintiff in error that Congress went
further in this direction, and imposed also a restriction upon
the power of alienation after the entry, and the last clause in
the 12th section of the act is cited to support the position.'
This section, after prescribing the manner in which the
proof of settlement and improvement shall be made before
the land is entered, has this proviso: "and all assignments
and transfers of the right hereby secured prior to the issuing
of the patent shall be null and void."
The inquiry is, what did the legislature intend by this
prohibition ? Did it mean to disqualify the pre-emptor who
had entered the land from selling it at all until he had obtained his patent, or did the disability extend only to the
assignment of the pre-emption right? Looking at the language employed, as well as the policy of Congress on the
subject, it would seem that the interdiction was intended to
apply to the right secured by the act, and did not go further.
This was the right to pre-empt a quarter section of land by
settling upon and improving it, at the minimum price, no
matter what its value might be when the time limited for
perfecting the pre-emption expired. This right was valuable,
and independently of the legislation of Congress assignable.*
Thredgill v. rintard, 12 Howard, 24.

Dec. 1871.]

PENDLETON COUNTY V.

AMY.

Syllabus.

The object of Congress was attained when the pre-emptor
went, with clean hands, to the land office and proved up his
right, and paid the government for his land. 'Restriction
upon the power of alienation after this would injure the
pre-emptor, and could serve no important purpose of public
policy. It is well known that patents do not issue in the
usual course of business in the General Land Office until
several years after the certificate of entry is given, and
equally well known that nearly all the valuable lands in the
new States, admitted since 1841, have been taken up under
the pre-emption laws, and the right to sell them freely exercised after the claim was proved up, the land paid for, and
the certificate of entry received. In view of these facts we
cannot suppose, in the absence of an express declaration to
that effect, that Congress intended to tie up these lands in
the hands of the original owners, until the government
should choose to issue the patent.
If it had been the purpose of Congress to attain the object
contended for, it would have declared the lands themselves
unalienable until the patent was granted. Instead of this,
the legislation was directed against the assignment or transfer of the right secured by the act, which was the right of
pre-emption, leaving the pre-emptor free to sell his land
after the entry, if at that time he was, in good faith, the
owner of the land, and had done nothing inconsistent with
the provisions of the law on the subject.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

PENDLETON COUNTY v.

AmY.

1. On suit upon the coupons of railroad bonds payable, both bonds and
coupons, by their terms, to the bearer-the declaration alleging the
plaintiff to be owner, holder, and bearer of the coupons-a plea that the
plaintiff was not, either at the time when the declaration or when the
plea was filed, the owner, holder, or bearer, is a traverse of a material
allegation of the declaration, and though faulty as argumentative, must,
on general demurrer, be held good.

