GIBSON V.

CttOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.
here. The case differed, as this court considered, in no respect
from the case just decided, but one, which was that when the
register and receiver decided in favor of Smiley against Samson, in the contest for the right of pre-emption to the land, they
did not give him a patent certifictae as they did to Towsley.
The reason for this seemed to be that the contest between him
and Samson was prosecuted immediately from the register and
receiver's decision to the commissioner, and from the commissioner's decision affirming that of the register and receiver, to
the secretary, so that there was no period, until the final decision of the latter, when either party could have been permitted
to make the entry; but the record showed that, on a full and
thorough investigation, all the officers of the land department
decided that Smiley had established his right of pre-emption,
and the secretary overruled this on the sole ground that he had
filed a declaratory statement for another tract of land.
After argument by hlfr. Trumbull, for Samson et al., plaintiffs in
error, and by Messrs. Al. H. Carpenter,J. JU. Woolworth, and A. J.
Poppleton, contra, the judgment of the court was delivered by
Mr. Justice MILLER, to the effect that the land in question,
having never been subject to private entry, the construction of
the statute made by the secretary was erroneous, and operated
to deprive Smiley of his right, otherwise perfect, to the land,
and to vest the legal title, which he ought to have received, in
Samson. The case came, therefore, as the court considered,
within the principle just decided in Towsley v. Johnson, and the
judgment of the Supreme Court of Nebraska was accordingly
AFFIRMED.

GIBsoN v. CHOUTEAU.
1. Statutes of limitation of a State do not apply to the State itself, unless it
is expressly designated, or the misehiefs to be remedied are of such a
nature that it must necessarily be included; and they do not apply to
the United States.
2. The power of Congress in the disposal of the public domain cannot be interfered with, or its exercise embarrassed by any State legislation; nor
can such legislation deprive the grantees of the United States of the
possession and enjoyment of the property granted by reason of any delay
in the transfer of the title after the initiation of proceedings for its
acquisition.

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

Statement of the case.
3. The patent is the instrument which, under the laws of Congress, passes
the title of the United States, and in the action of ejectment in the
Federal courts for lands derived from the United States the patent,
when regular on its face, is conclusive evidence of title in the patentee.
And in the action of ejectment in the State courts when the question
presented is whether the plaintiff or the defendant has the superior legal
title from the United States, the patent is also conclusive.
4. The occupation of lands derived from the United States, before the issue
of their patent, for the period prescribed by the statutes of limitation
of a State for the commencement of actions for the recovery of real
property, is not a bar to an action of ejectment for the possession of
such lands founded upon the legal title subsequently conveyed by the
patent. :Nor does such occupation constitute a sufficient equity in favor
of the occupant to control the legal title thus subsequently conveyed,
whether asserted in a separate suit in a Federal court, or set up as an
equitable defence to an action of ejectment in a State court.
5. The doctrine of relation is a fiction of law adopted by the courts solely
for the purposes of justice, and, where several proceedings are required
to perfect a conveyance of land, it is only applied for the security and
protection of persons who stand in some privity with the party that
initiated the proceedings and acquired the equitable claim or right to
the title. It does not affect strangers not connecting themselves with
the equitable claim or right by any valid transfer from the original or
any subsequent holder.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
Gibson brought ejectment in the St. Louis Land Court
against Chouteau, to recover sixty-four acres of land in the
county of St. Louis, Missouri. By consent of parties the
case was tried by the court without a jury. On the trial the
plaintiff claimed title to the demanded premises, under a
patent of the United States issued to his immediate grantor,
which he produced. The facts which led to the issue of the
patent were these:
Ag early as September, 1803, as appeared from the record,
one JamesY. O'Carroll obtained permission from the Spanish
authorities to settle on vacant lands in the District of New
Madrid, in the Territory of Louisiana. In pursuance of
this permission he occupied and cultivated, previously to
December 20th, of that year, portions of a tract embracing
one thousand arpents of land, in that part of the country
which afterwards constituted the county of New Madrid in
the Territory of Missouri. After the cession of Louisiana

GIBSON V. CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

to the United States, he claimed the land by virtue of his
settlement; and this claim was subsequently confirmed to
him and his legal representatives, under diferent acts of
Congress, to the extent of six hundred and forty acres.
In 1812 a large part of the land in the county of New
Mfadrid was injured by earthquakes; and in 1815 Congress
passed an act for the relief of parties who had thus suffered.* By this act, persons whose lands had been materially injured were authorized to locate a like quantity of
land on any of the public lands in the Territory of Missouri,
the sale of which was authorized by law. And it was made
the duty of the recorder of land titles in the Territory, when
it appeared to him, from the oath or affirmation of a competent witness or witnesses, that anly person was entitled to a
tract of land under the provisions of the act, to issue to him
a certificate to that effect. On this certificate, upon the application of the claimant, a location was to he made by the
principal deputy surveyor of the Territory, who was required
to cause the location to be surveyed, and a plat of the same
to be returned to the recorder with a notice designating the
tract located, and the name of the claimant.
The act further provided for a report to be forwarded by
the recorder to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
of the claims allowed and locations made; and for the delivery to each claimant of a certificate of his claim and location which should entitle him, on its being transmitted to the
commissioner, "to a patent to be issued in like manner as
is provided by law for other public lands of the United
States." The act also declared, that in all cases where the
location was made under its provisions, the title of the
claimant to the injured land should revert to and vest in the
United States.
The land claimed by O'Carroll, in New Madrid County,
afterwards confirmed to him, as already stated, to the extent
of six hundred and forty acres, was injured by earthquakes,
and in November, 1815, the recorder of land titles in St.
3 Stat. at Large, 211.

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON

V. CHOUTEAU.

Statement of the case.

Louis, upon proper proof of the fact, gave a certificate to that
effect, and stating that under the act of Congress O'Carroll,
or his legal representatives, were entitled to locate a like
quantity on any of the public lands of the Territory of Missouri, the sale of which was authorized by law.
In June, 1818, a location of the land was made on behalf of
one Christian Wilt, who had become by mesne conveyances
the owner of the interest of O'Carroll. The land thus located
had been previously surveyed by the deputy surveyor of the
Territory, but from some unexplained cause the survey and
plat thereof were not returned to the recorder, until August,
1841. The recorder then issued a patent certificate to "James
Y. O'Carroll or his legal representatives." A report of the
location was also made by him, as required by the act of
Congress, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
but it appeared that the survey of the location did not meet
the approval of that officer, as it did not show its interferences with conflicting claims. Accordingly, in a communication dated in March, 1847, the commissioner required the
surveyor-general of Missouri to examine into the interferences, and ascertain the residue of the O'Carr6ll claim, and
stated that on the return to the land office "of a proper
plat and patent certificate for said residue, a patent" would
issue. Under these instructions a new survey and plat were
made, showing the interferences of the survey with other
claims, and on the 26th of March, 1862, were filed with the
recorder, and a new patent certificate was issued. Upon the
corrected survey and plat and new certificate, the patent of
the United States was, in June, 1862, issued to Mary McRee,
who had acquired by various mesne conveyances the interest
of Wilt in the land. In August following she conveyed to
the plaintiff.
On the trial, the defendants endeavored to show that they
had become, through certain legal proceedings, the owners
of the interest originally possessed by Wilt, and consequently
had acquired the equitable title to the land upon which they
could defend against the patent, under the practice which
prevails in Missouri. But in this endeavor they failed, the

GIBSON V.

CIIOUTBAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Supreme Court of the State holding that the conveyances
under which they claimed were inoperative and void.
The defendants also relied upon a deed of Samuel McRee
and wife,* executed in 1838, contending that by operation
of the deed under the statutes of Missouri, the equitable
title which these grantors had subsequently acquired to the
land and also the legal title conveyed by the patent to Mrs.
McRee enured to the benefit of the defendants; but the
Supreme Court held that the deed only had the effect of a
quit-claim of an existing interest, and did not affect any
subsequently acquired title.
The rulings of the State court upon these grounds were
not open to review in this court, as they involved no questions of Federal jurisdiction. But it also appeared in evidence that the defendants, previous to the issue of the
patent, had been in the possession of the demanded premises more than ten years, the period prescribed by the statute
of Missouri, within which actions for the recovery of real
property must be brought. By the statutes of the State the
action of ejectment will lie on certain equitable titles. It
may be maintained on a New Madrid location against any
person not having a better title.t The defendants, therefore, contended that the statute of limitation, which had run
against the equitable title, created by the location of the
O'Carroll claim, was also a bar to the present action founded
upon the legal title, acquired by the patent of the United
States.
The Land Court held that the effect of the patent issued
by the United States to Mrs. McRee was to invest her with
the legal title to the land in dispute; and that the title
vested in the plaintiff through the deed to him from Mis.
McRee was superior to any title shown by the defendants to
the land in question under the New Madrid certificate of
location, and that the said patent having issued to Mrs. McRee within ten years next before the commencement of this
suit, the possession of the defendants was not a bar to the
* The -M1ary MeRee already named.

f General Statutes of Missouri of 1825, chap. 151, sections 1 and 11.

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSOx v.

CHOUTEAU.

Statement of the case.

plaintiff's recovery, and gave verdict and judgment accordingly for the plaintiff: From the judgment the case was
taken to the Supreme Court of the State, and was twice
heard there. Upon the first hearing the court affirmed the
decision of the inferior court, holding that "until the patent
issued the legal title remained in the United States, and the
statute of limitations did not begin to run against the plaintiff before the date of that patent."
On the second hearing the court adhered to all its previous
rulings except that which related to the effect of the statute
of 'limitations, and upon that it changed its previous ruling
and held that the statute barred the right of action upon the
patent. In its opinion given on the second decision, after
referring to its previous conclusion, cited above, it said:
"This conclusion proceeded upon the ground that although,
the action given by the statute upon the 'equitable right only,
which had passed out of the United States, might be barred, it
did not follow that an action based upon the right of entry by
virtue of the absolute legal title by patent, would also be barred.
The idea that the fiction of relation could be applied not only to
carry the legal title to the owner of the inceptive right through
the intermediate conveyances, but also for the purpose of bringing it within the operation of the statute of limitations from the

date of the inceptive equity, had not been suggested and had.
not occurrea to us."
Again the court, after recognizing the fact that the legal
title remained in the United States till the patent issued, and
that the location only gave an equitable right, upon which
an action was sustainable in the State courts by virtue of the.
State statute, said:
"The two rights of entry, therefore, are distinct in themselves, and the causes of action have a different foundation.
The possession of the land is claimed in both, but by different
rights, and if there were nothing more the one cause of action
might be barred and not the other. But there is another principle upon which we think the statute may be made to operate
here as' a bar to the plaintiff's action, and that is the fiction of
relation whereby the legal title is to be considered as passing
7
VOL. XXII.

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

out of the United States through the patent at its date, but as
instantly dropping back in time to the date of the location as
the first act or inception of the conveyance, to vest the title in
the owner of the equity as of that date and make it pass from
him to the patentee named through all the intermediate conveyances, and so that the two rights of entry and the two causes
of action are thus merged in one, and the statute may be held
to have opcrated on both at once. The legal title, on making
this circuit, necessarily runs around the period of the statute
bar, and the action founded on this new right is met by the
statute on its way and cut off with that which existed before."

The Supreme Court accordingly reversed the decision of
the Land Court, and the case was brought here on writ of
error under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, and is
rep6rted in Gibson v. Chouteau, 8th Wallace, 314. When
presented, the record disclosed questions respecting the
validity of Mrs. McRee's title, the transfer of her title to the
plaintiff, and the trust asserted by which it was contended
that the plaintiff's title enured to the benefit of the defendants, as well as the statute of limitations. This court, therefore, as the report already mentioned shows, dismissed the
writ of error, because the record did not show that the decision of the State court turned on the question of the statute of limitations or that the determination of this question

against the plaintiff was essential to the second judgment
rendered.
When the case went back to the Supreme Court of the
State, that court set aside its judgment, stating that it had
been rendered on the question of the statute of limitations;
but that by a clerical error such fact was not stated therein.
The case was then again submitted to that court, and the
court then adjudged that the plaintiff was barred by the
statute of limitations, all other questions being determined
in his favor. It was this judgment which was now brought
before this court on writ of error.
Messrs. Montgomery Blair and
in error.

.A. Dick, for the plaintiff

Messrs. Glover and Shepley, contra.

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON V.

CHOUTEAU.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
It is matter of common knowledge that statutes of limitation do not run against the State. That no laches can be
imputed to the king, and that no time can bar his rights,
was the maxim of the common law, and was founded on the
principle of public policy, that as he was occupied with the
cares of government he ought not to suffer from the negligence of his officers and servants. The principle is applicable to all governments, which must necessarily act through
numerous agents, and is essential to a preservation of the
interests and property of the public. It is upon this principle that in this country the statutes of a State prescribing
periods within which rights must be prosecuted are not held
to embrace the State itself, unless it is expressly designated
or the mischiefs to be remedied are of such a nature that it
,must necessarily be included. As legislation of a State can
only apply to persons and things over which the State has
jurisdiction, the United States are also necessarily excluded
from the operation of such statutes.*
With respect to the public domain, the Constitution vests
in Congress the power of disposition and of making all
needful rules and regulations. That power is subject to no
limitations. Congress has the absolute right to prescribe
the times, the conditions, and the mode of transferring this
property, or any part of it, and to designate the persons to
whom the transfer shall be made. No State legislation can
interfere with this right or embarrass its exercise; and to
prevent the possibility of any attempted interference with
it, a provision has been usually inserted in the compacts by
which new States have been admitted into the Union, that
such interference with the primary disposal of the soil of the
United States shall never be made. Such provision was inserted in the act admitting Missouri, and it is embodied in
the present Constitution, with the further clause that the
legislature shall also not interfere "with any regulation that
Congress may find necessary for securing the title in such
soil to the bondfide purchasers."
* United States v. Hoar, 2 Mason, 312; People v.Gilbert, 18 Johnson, 228.

GIBSON V. CHOUTEAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The same principle which forbids any State legislation interfering with the power of Congress to dispose of the public
property of the United States, also forbids any legislation
depriving the grantees of the United States of the possession and enjoyment of the property granted by reason of
any delay in the transfer of the title after the initiation of
proceedings for its acquisition. The consummation of the
title is not a matter which the grantees can control, but one
which rests entirely with the government. With the legal
title, when transferred, goes the right to possess and enjoy
the land, and it would amount to a denial of the power of
disposal in Congress if these benefits, which should follow
upon the acquisition of that title, could be forfeited because
they were not asserted before that title was issued.
Yet such forfeiture is claimed by the defendants in this
case, and is sanctioned by the decision of the Supreme Court
of Missouri. That court does not, it is true, present its decision in this light, but on the contrary it attempts to reconcile its decision with positions substantially such as we have
already stated respecting the power of Congress over the
public lands, and the inability of the State to interfere With
the primary disposal of the soil of the United States. It declares it to be well settled, that statutes of limitation of a
State cannot run against the United States, nor affect their
grantees, until the title has passed from the proprietary
sovereignty; that these statutes operate to bar the cause of
action, not to convey the title; that no cause of action upon
a right of entry by virtue of the legal title by patent can
exist until the patent is issued; and that the action upon
the equitable title created by the location is only given by a
statute of the State; and as the two rights of entry have a
different origin, that the latter, resting on the statute, might
be barred, whilst that resting on the patent would continue
in force, but for the operation of the fiction of relation. By
a novel application of that doctrine, the court comes to the
conclusion that the statute operates against both rights of
entry at the same time.
By the doctrine of relation is meant that principle by

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON

V.

CHOUTEAU.

Opinion of the court.

which an act done at one time is considered by a fiction of
law to have been done at some antecedent period. It is
usually applied where several proceedings are essential to
complete a particular transaction, such as a conveyance or
deed. The last proceeding which consummates the conveyance is held for certain purposes to take effect by relation as
of the day when the first proceeding was had. Thus, in the
present case, the patent, which was issued in 1862, is said
to take effect by relation at the time when the survey and
plat of the location, made in 1818, were returned to the
recorder of land titles under the act of Congress. At that
time the title of the claimant to the land desired by him had
its inception, and so far as it is necessary to protect his rights
to the land, and the rights of parties deriving their interests
from him, the patent is held to take effect by relation as of
that date.*
The Supreme Court of Missouri, considering that by this
doctrine of relation, the legal title, when it passed out of the
United States by the patent, instantly dropped back in time
to the location of the first act or inception of the conveyance, and vested the title in the owner of the equity as of
that date, held that the statute intercepted the title as it
passed through the intermediate conveyances from that
period to the patentee. "The legal title," said the court,
"in making this circuit, necessarily runs around the period
of the statute bar, and the action founded upon thise'new
right is met by the statute on its way, and cut off with that
which existed before."t
The error of the learned court consisted in overlooking
the fact that the doctrine of relation is a fiction of law adopted
by the courts solely for the purposes of justice, and is only
applied for the security and protection of persons who stand
in some privity with the party tthat initiated proceedings
for the land, and acquired the equitable claim or right to
the title.t The defendants in this-case were strangers to
Lessieur v. Price, 12 Howard, 74.
t Gibson v. Ohouteau's Heirs, 89 Missouri, 588.
. Lynch v. Bernal, 9 Wallace, 315; Jackson v. Bard, 4 Johnson, 230;

GIBSON V. CBOUTEAU.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

that party and to his equitable claim, or equitable title, as it
is termed, not connecting themselves with it by any valid
transfer from the original or any subsequent holder. The
statute of limitations of Missouri did not operate to convey
that claim or equitable title to them. It only extinguished
the right to maintain the action of ejectment founded thereon, under the practice of the State. It left the right of entry
upon the legal title subsequently acquired by the patent
wholly unaffected.
In the Federal courts, where the distinction between legal
and equitable proceedings is strictly maintained, and renedies afforded by law and equity are separately pursued, the
action of ejectment can only be sustained upon the possession by the plaintiff of the legal title. For the enforcement
of equitable rights, however clear, distinct equitable proceedings must be instituted. The patent is the instrument
which, under the laws of Congress, passes the title of the
United States. It is the government conveyance. If other
parties possess equities superior to those of the patentee, upon
which the patent issued, a court of equity will, upon proper
proceedings, enforce such equities by compelling a transfer
of the legal title, or enjoining its enforcement, or cancelling
the patent.* But, in the action of' ejectment in the Federal
courts, the legal title must prevail, and the patent, when
regular on its face, is conclusive evidence of that title.
So also in the action of ejectment in the State courts,
when the question presented is whether the plaintiff or the
defendant has the superior legal title from the United States,
the patent must prevail. For, as said in Bagnell v. -Broderick,t " Congress has the sole power to declare the dignity
and effect of titles emanating from the United States; and
the whole legislation of the Federal government in reference
to the public lands declares the patent the superior and conHeath v. Ross, 12 Id. 140; Littleton v Cross, 5 Barnewall and Creswell, 325,
328.
Stephenson v. Smith, 7 M[issouri, 610; Barry v. Gamble, 8 Id. 881; Cunningham v. Ashley, 14 Howard, 377; Lindsey v.Hawes, 2 Black, 554; Stark
a. Starrs, 6 Wallace, 402; Johnson v.Towsley, supra, p. 72.
t"13 Peters, 450.

Dec. 1871.]

GIBSON V. CHOUTEAU.
Opinion of the court.

clusive evidence of legal title. Until its issuance the fee is
in the government, which, by the patent, passes to the
grantee, and he is entitled to recover the possession in ejectment."
In several of the States, and such is the case in Missouri,
equities of the character mentioned, instead of being presented in a separate suit, may be set up as a defence to the
action of ejectment. The answer or plea in such case is in
the nature of a bill in equity, and should contain all its
essential averments. The defendant then becomes, with
reference to the matters averred by him, an actor, and seeks,
by the equities presented, to estop the plaintiff from prosecuting the action, or to compel a transfer of the title.*
In Maguire v. Vice,t where the plaintiff brought ejectment
on a legal title, and gave in evidence a patent of the United
States, and the defendant relied upon an equitable defence,
the Supreme Court of Missouri said: "_Although our present practice act abolishes all distinctions between legal and
equitable actions, yet a party who seeks relief on a merely
equitable title against a legal title must, in his pleadings,
whether he is plaintiff or defendant, set forth such a state o
of facts as would have entitled him to the relief he seeks
under the old form of proceedings. When a party by his
pleadings sets forth a merely legal title, he cannot on the
trial be let into the proof of facts which show that, having
an equity, he is entitled to a conveyance of the legal title.
If he wants such relief he must prepare his pleadings with
an eye to obtain it, and this must be done, whether he is
seeking relief as plaintiff or defendant."
But neither in a separate suit in a Federal court, nor in
an answer to an action of ejectment in a State court, can
the mere occupation of the demanded premises by plaintiffs
or defendants,.for the period prescribed by the statute of
limitations of the State, be held to constitute a sufficient
equity in their favor to control the legal title subsequently
. Estrada v. Murphy, 19 California, 272; Weber v. Marshall, lb. 467;
Lestrade v. Barth, Ib. 671.
j- 20 Missouri, 431.

NORWICH

COMPANY V. WRIGHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

conveyed to others by the patent of the United States, without trenching upon the power of Congress in the disposition
of the public lands. That power cannot be defeated or obstructed by any occupation of the premises before the issue
of the patent, under State legislation, in whatever form or
tribunal such occupation be asserted.*
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Missouri must be REVERSED, and the cause be REMANDED for
FURTHER PROCEEDINGS pursuant to this opinion; and it is
So ORDERED.

NORWICH COMPANY V. WRIGHT.
1. The actof Congress of 1851, limiting the liability of ship-owners, includes
collisions, as well as injuries to cargo; so that if a collision happens between two vessels at sea, and one of them is in fault without the privity
or knowledge of her owners, the latter will only be liable for the amount
of their interest in the vessel and her freight then pending; and that
amount being paid into court, if insufficient to pay all the damages
caused, will be apportioned pro rata amongst the owners of the injured
vessel and of the cargoes of both vessels in proportion to their respective
0
losses.
:2. This liability of the ship-owners may be discharged by their surrendering
and assigning to a trustee for the benefit of the parties injured, in pursuance of the 4th section of the act, the vessel and freight, although
these may have been diminished in value by the collision, or other casualty during the voyage; and, it seems, that if they are totally lost the
owners will be entirely discharged.
3. In this respect the act has adopted the rule of the maritime law as contradistinguished from that of the English statutes on the same subject.
4. The District Court, sitting as a court of admiralty, has jurisdiction of
cases arising under the act, and may administer the law as provided in
the 4th section.
5. The proper course of proceeding in such a case pointed out.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut;
the case being this:
On the 3d of March, 1851, Congress passed an actt as folWilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 516, 517; Irvine v. Marshall, 20 Howard,
558; Fenn v. Holme, 21 Id. 481; Lindsey v. Miller, 6 Peters, 672.
t 9 Stat. at Large, 635.

