CLINTON V.

ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CLINTON ET AL. V. ENGLEBRECHT.
1. The effort of a defendant to secure, so far as he can, by peremptory challenges and challenges for cause, a fair trial of his case, does not waive
an inherent and fatal objection to the entire panel.
2. The fact that judges of the District and Supreme Courts of the Territories
are appointed by the President, under acts of Congress, does not make
the courts which they are authorized to hold "courts of the United
States." Such courts are but the legislative courts of the Territory,
created in virtue of the clause which authorizes Congress to make all
needful rules and regulations respecting the Territories belonging to the
United States. Accordingly, jurors summoned into them under the
acts of Congress, applicable only to the courts of the United States,
i. e , courts established under the article of the Constitution which relates to the Judicial power, are wrongly summoned, and a judgment on
their verdict cannot, if properly objected to, be sustained.
3. The theory upon which the various governments for portions of the territory of the United States have been organized, has ever been that of
leaving to the inhabitants all the powers of self-government consistent
with the supremacy and supervision of National authority, and with
certain fundamental principles established by Congress.
4. This view illustrated by reference to the various acts, from the earliest
dates till 1864, organizing the Territories of the United States.
5. The Utah jury law of 1859 examined and considered in the light of this
view and this history, and certain objections to it declared to be without
foundation.

ERoR to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
The principal question for consideration in this case was
raised by the challenge of the defendants to the array of the
jury in the Third District Court of the Territory of Utah.
The suit was a civil action for the recovery of a penalty
for the destruction of certain property of the plaintiffs by
the defendants. The plaintiffs were retail liquor dealers in
the city of Salt Lake, and had refused to take out a license
as required by an ordinance of the city. The defendants,
acting under the same ordinance, thereupon proceeded to
the store of the plaintiffs and destroyed their liquors to the
value, as alleged, of more than $22,000. The statute gave
an action against any person who should wilfully and maliciously injure or destroy the goods of another for a sum

Dec. 1871.]

CLINTON

v.

ENGLEBRECHT.

Statement of the case.

equal to three times the value of the property injured or
destroyed. Under this statute the plaintiffs claimed this
threefold value.
The act of the Territorial legislature, passed in 1859, and
in force when the jury in this cause was summoned, required
that "the county court" in each county should make out from
the assessment rolls, a list of fifty men qualified to serve as
jurors; and that thirty days before the session of the District
Court, "the clerk of said court" should issue a writ to the Territorial marshal or any of his deputies, requiring him to summon twenty-four eligible men to serve as petit jurors. These
men were to be taken by lot, in the mode pointed out by the
statute, from the lists previously made by the clerks of the
county courts, and their names were to be returned by the
marshal to the clerlk of the District Court. Provision was
further made for the drawing of the trial panel from tiis
final list, and for its completion by a new drawing or summons in case of non-attendance or excuse from service upon
challenge, oi' for other reason.
For the trial of the cause the record showed that the court
originally directed a venire to be issued in conformity withi
this law, and that a venire was issued accordingly, but not
served or returned. The record also showed that under an
order subsequently made, an open venire was issued to the
Federal marshal, which was served and returned with a
panel of eighteen petit jurors annexed; the court, in making
this order, acting apparently on the theory that it was a
court of the United States, and to be governed in the selection of jurors by the acts of Congress. The jurors thus summoned were summoned from the body of the county at the
discretion of the marshal. Twelve jurors of this panel were
placed in the jury-box, and the defendants challenged the
array on the ground that the jurors had not been selected or
summoned in conformity with the laws of the Territory and
with the original order of the court. This challenge was overruled. Exception was taken, and the cause proceeded. Both
parties challenged for cause. Each of the defendants claimed
six peremptory challenges. This claim was also overruled

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the Territorial law.

and exception was taken. Other exceptions were also taken
in the progress of the cause. Under the charge of the court
a verdict was rendered for the plaintiffs, under which judgment was entered for $59,063.25, and on appeal was affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the Territory. A writ of error to
that court brought the cause here.
Mr. C. J. .Hillyer,for the plaintiff in error:
The District Court in disregarding, as it confessedly did,
the statute of the Territory prescribing the mode of obtaining panels of jurors, acted on an assumption that the
Territorial courts were. " courts of the United States," such
courts in the same sense as are those courts which are
established under the article of the Constitution which relates to the Judicial power. This was a fundamental error.
They are not such courts.* The whole assumption on which
the court proceeded having been a false one, and the jury
having been summoned in a way wholly wrong, there is no
question but that the judgment must be reversed.
But how ought the jury to have been summoned? Plainly
in the way prescribed by the Territorial law. The organic
act ordains:
" Vihe legislative power of said Territory shall extend to all rightful subjects of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the
United ,States, and the provisions of this act; but no law shall be
passed interfering with the primary disposal of the soil. No
tax shall be imposed upon the property of the United States,
nor shall the lands or other property of non-residents be taxed
higher than the lands or other property of residents."

Now, certainly the mode of procuring panels of jurors is
a " rightful subject of legislation." Nothing is set forth in
either the constitution or the act which would make legislation on that subject inconsistent with them. The sort of
limitation on the legislative power of the Territory meant
tp be set up, is indicated by the unitalicized or latter part
of the above-quoted paragraph. But it has no looking
* American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters, 546.

D)ec. 1871.]

CLINTON

v.

ENGLEBRECET.

Argument against the Territorial law.

towards the matter of juries. The act is obviously a good
one; securing impartiality and excluding the influence of
individual prejudice.
.1r. BasIdn, contra:
The question which it is supposed by opposing counsel
arises, does not in fact arise, because the defendants waived
their objection to the jury, by exercising their right to challenge jurors peremptorily and for cause. They should have
stood by their challenge to the array, and could not by their
own act change the body of the jury, and go on with the trial,
and avail themselves of the chances of a verdict in their
favor, without also incurring the perils of a verdict against
them. The People v. McJKay,* to which we refer the court,
settles this point.
But passing to the question sought to be raised. Was the
jury legally impanelled? The resolution of the question
depends on certain sections of the organic law of the Territory, and certain acts of Congress. There is no doubt of
their existence. and they constitute a part of the case.
The jury was undoubtedly rightly impanelled, if the District Court of the Territory is to be regarded as a District
Court of the United States. Was it such a court?
The 6th section of the organic act provides:
" That the legislative power of said Territory shall extend to
all rightful subjects of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the United States and the provisions of this act."
The 17th section,
" That the Constitution and laws of the United States are
hereby extended over and declared to be in force in said Territory of Utah, so far as the same, or any provision thereof, may
be applicable."
The 10th section, that
"There shall also be a marshal for the Territory appointed,...
who shall execute all -process issuing from said courts (the Dis* 18 Johnson, 212, 217.

CLIN'TON

v.

ENGLEBRIECHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the Territorial law.

trict and Supreme Courts of the Territory), when exercising
their jurisdiction as Circuit and District Courts of the United
States; he shall perform the duties, be subject to the same
regulation and penalties, and be entitled to the same fees as the
marshal of the District Court of the United States for the present
Territory of .Oregon."*
The statute defining the duties of the marshal of the District Court for the Territory of Oregon refers, as in manner
above, o the duties of the marshal of the District Court for
the Territory of Wisconsin.t And reference is had in like
manner to the .orthern District of NYew York, in defining the
duties of the marshal of the District Court of Wisconsin.1
And reference from the Northern District of New York is
made to the general duties of marshals of the Disrict Court
of the United States.§
Now what are the duties of the marshals of the United
States ? The Judiciary Act declares them. Its 27th section
provides:
"That a marshal shall be appointed in and for each district,
whose duty it shall be to attend the District and Circuit Courts
when sitting therein, and also the Supreme Court in the district
in which that court shall sit; and to execute throughout the
district all lawful precepts directed to him, and issued under the
authority of the United States."I
It is further provided :
"That the marshals of the several districts and their deputies
shall have the same powers in executing the laws of the United
States as sheriffs and their deputies in the several States have
by law in executing the laws of the respective States."
In assuming, therefore, that the courts of the Territory
were courts of the United States, and in giving order to the
Federal marshal to summon the jurors, the District Court
proceeded rightly.
Again.

The organic act further enacts:

"That the judicial power of the Territory shall be vested in
*

9 Stat. at Large, 456.
3 Id. 235.

t lb. 327,
R 1 Id. 87.

1 10.

56 Id. 14,
lb. 42&

10.

Dec. 1871.]

Dec.
CLINTON
871.] v. ENGLEBREiCRT.
Argument against the Territorial law.

a Supreme Court, District Court, probate courts, and justices of
the peace."
No such court as "the county court," and no such officer
as clerk of said court, can have any legal existence in Utah,
because the courts in which the judicial power of the Territory is lodged are specifically named in the organic act, and
the county court is not among them.
But yet further. To have proceeded under the act of the
Territorial legislature would have been to proceed wrongly.,
The 7th section of the organic act of Utah provides:
"That all township, district, and county officers, not herein
provided for, shall be appointed or elected, as the case may be,
in such manner as shall be provided by the governor and the
legislative assembly of the Territory of Utah. The governor
shall nominate, and by and with the advice and consent of the legislative council appoint, all officers not herein providedfor."
Now the Territorial marshal is neither "a township, district, or county officer." He ought, therefore, to have been
nominated by the governor, and by and with the advice and
consent of the legislative council appointed. Yet he was
not thus nominated and appointed. He was elected in pursuance of an act of the Territorial legislature of Utah, approved March the 3d, 1852,* by which it is provided:
"That a marshal shall be elected by a joint vote ofF both houses
of the legislative assembly, whose term of office shall be one
year, unless sooner removed by the legislative assembly," &c.
The Territorial marshal thus created, is required to officiate in the selection and summoning the grand and petit
juries for the District Courts of Utah Territory, in all cases,
both where the United States is a party as well as cases between individuals, and as well in enforcing the laws of the
United States as in enfbreing the laws of the Territory. The
language of the statute is:

"It shall be the duty of the marshal . .
* Revised Statutes of Utah, p. 88,

.

.to execute all
1.

CLI9TON V. ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

processes of the Supreme or District Courts, in all cases arising
under the laws of the Territory.
"When a District Court is to be held, whether for a district
issue a writ to the Territorial
or county ... the clerk shall .
marshal."
It is further made the duty of the Territorial marshal to
assist in selecting the grand and petit juries, and then summon and return the same.
That the District Courts of the Territory of Utah exercise
their jurisdiction as "District Courts of the United States"
is made plain by decisions of this very court. Thus by the
6th section of the Judiciary Act, this court is authorized to
make rules of practice for the District and Circuit Courts of
the United States. In pursuance of this authority, it did
make rules of practice for the said courts, and in Orchardv.
.lughes,*in a civil case between individuals, these rules were
held to apply to the District Court of a Territory. If the
District Courts of the Territory do not exercise their jurisdiction as District Courts of the United States in all adjudications between individuals, it follows that the decision of
Orchard v. Hughes was erroneous, so it may be added was
the earlier one of -Huntv. Palao.t
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
It is plain that the jury was not selected or summoned in
pursuance of the statute of the Territory. That statute was,
on the contrary, wholly and purposely disregarded, and the
controlling question raised by the challenge to the array is,
whether the law of the Territorial legislature, prescribing
the mode of obtaining panels of grand and petit jurors, is
obligatory upon the District Courts of the Territory.
It was insisted in argument that the challenge to the array
was waived by the defendants through the exercise of their
right to challenge peremptorily and for cause; and we were
referred to the judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, in the case of The People v. iXeKay,j as an authority
1 Wallace, 73.

-t 4 Howard, 589.

118 Johnson, 217.

Dec. 1871.]

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.

Opinion of the court.

for this proposition. But that case appears to be an authority for the opposite conclusion. "We are not of opinion,"
says the c6urt, "that the prisoner's peremptory challenge of
jurors was a waiver of his right to object now to the want
of a venire." In that case there had been no venire, but the
jury had been summoned in a mode not warranted by law.
In the case before us there was a venire, but if it was not
authorized by law it was a nullity; and we are not prepared
to say that the efforts of the defendants to secure as far as
they could, by peremptory challenges and challenges for
cause, a fair trial of their case, waived an inherent and fatal
objection to the entire panel.
We are, therefore, obliged to consider the question whether the District Court, in the selection and summoning
of jurors, was bound to conform to the law of the Territory.
The theory upon which the various governments for portions of the territory of the United States have been organized, has ever been that of leaving to the inhabitants all the
powers of self-government consistent with the ,supremacy
and supervision of National authority, and with certain fundamental principles established by Congress. As early as
1784 an ordinance was adopted by the Congress of the Confederation providing for the division of all the territory
ceded or to be ceded, into States, with boundaries ascertained by the ordinance. These States were severally authorized to adopt for their temporary government the constitution and laws of any one of the States, and provision
was made for their ultimate admission by delegates into the
Congress of the United States. We thus find the first plan
for the establishment of governments in the Territories, authorized the adoption of State governments from the start,
and committed all matters of internal legislation to the discretion of the inhabitants, unrestricted otherwise than by
the State constitution originally adopted by them.
This ordinance, applying t6 all Territories ceded or to be
ceded, was superseded three years later by the Ordinance of
1787, restricted in its application to the territory northwest

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

of the river Ohio-the only territory which had then been
actually ceded to the United States.
It provided for the appointment of the governor and three
judges of the court, who are authorized to adopt, for the
temporary government of the district, such laws of the original States as might be adapted to its circumstances. But,
as soon as the number of adult male inhabitants should
amount to five thousand, they were authorized to elect representatives to a house of representatives, who were required
to nominate ten persons from whom Congress should select
five to constitute a legislative council; and the house and
the council thus selected and appointed were thenceforth to
constitute the legislature of the Territory, which was authorized to elect a delegate in Congress with the right of debating, but not of voting. This legislature, subject to the
negative of the governor and certain fundamental principles
and provisions embodied in articles of compact, was clothed
with the full power of legislation for the Territory.
The Territories south of the Ohio, in 1790;* of Mississippi,
in 1798 ;t of Indiana, in 1800 ;J of Michigan, in 1805 ;§ of
Illinois, in 1809;11 were organized upon the same plan, except that the prohibition of slavery, embodied in the Ordinance of 1787, was not embraced among the fundamental
provisions in the organization of the Territories south of the
Ohio; and the people in the Territories of Michigan, Indiana,
and Illinois were authorized to form a legislative assembly,
as soon as they should see fit, without waiting for a population of five thousand adult males.
Upon the acquisition of the foreign territory of Louisiana,
in 1803, the plan for the organization of the government
was somewhat changed. The governor and council of the
Territory of Orleans, which afterwards became the State of
Louisiana, were appointed by the President, but were invested with full legislative powers, except as specially limited. A District Court of the United States distinct from
1 Stat. at Large, 123.
lb. 309.

t Ib. 549.
11Ib. 514.

: 2 Id. 58.

Dec. 1871.]

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.
Opinion of the court.

the courts of the Territory was instituted.*

The re'st of

the Territory was called the District of Louisiana, and was
placed under the government of the governor and judges
of Indiana.t
Jurisdiction of cases in which the United States were concerned, subject to appeal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, was for the first time expressly given to a Territorial
court in 1805.t The Territory of Missouri was organized
in 1812,§ and upon the same plan as the Territories acquired
by cessions of the States. In the act for the government of
this Territory appears for the fifst time a provision concerning the qualifications of jurors. The 16th section of the
act provided that all free white male adults, not disqualified
by any legal proceeding, should be qualified as grand and
petit jurors in the courts of the Territory, and should be
selected, until the General Assembly should otherwise direct, in such manner as the courts should prescribe.
The Territory of Alabama, in 1817,11 was formed out of
the Mississippi Territory, and upon the same plan. The Superior Court of the Territory was clothed with the Federal
jurisdiction given by the act of 1805. The Territory of
Arkansas was organized in 1819,1f in the southern part of
Missouri Territory. The powers of the government were
distributed as executive, legislative, and judicial, and vested
respectively in the governor, General Assembly, and the
courts. The governor and judges of the Superior Court
were to be appointed by the President, and the governor
was to exercise the legislative powers until the organization
of the General Assembly. The act for the organization of
the Territorial government of Florida made the same distribution of the powers of the government as was made in the
Territory of Arkansas, and contained the same provision in
regard to jurors as the act for the Territorial government of
Missouri.
In all the Territories full power was given to the legisla2 Stat. at Large, 283.
lb. 743.

- lR. 287.
13 Id. 371.

lb. 338.
lb. 493.

444

CLINTON

v.

ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

ture over all ordinary subjects of legislation. The terms in
which it was granted were various, but the import was the
same in all.
Except in the acts relating to Missouri and Arkansas, no
power was given to the courts in respect to jurors, and the
limitation of this power until the organization of the General Assembly indicates very clearly that, after such organization, the whole power in relation to jurors was to be
exercised by that body.
In 1836 the Territory of Wisconsin was organized under
an act, which seems to have received full consideration, and
from which all subsequent acts for the organization of Territories have been copied, with few and inconsiderable variations. Except those in the Kansas and Nebraska acts in
relation to slavery, and some others growing out of local
circumstances, they all contained the same provisions in
regard to the legislature and the legislative authority, and
to the judiciary and the judicial authority, as the act organizing the Territory of Utah. In no one of them is there any
provision in relation to jurors.
The language of the section conferring the legislative
authority in each of these acts is this:
"The legislative power of said Territory shall extend to all
rightful subjects of legislation, consistent with the Constitution of the United States, and the provisions of this act; but
no law shall be passed interfering with the primary disposal
of the soil. No tax shall be imposed upon the property of
the United States, nor shall the lands or other property of
non-residents be taxed higher than the lands or other property of residents."
As there is no provision relating to the selection of jurors
in the constitution, or the organic act, it cannot be said that
any legislation upon this subject is inconsistent with either.
The method of procuring jurors for the trial of cases is
therefore a rightful subject of legislation, and the whole
matter of selecting, inipanelling, and summoning jurors is
left to the Territorial legislature.
The action of the legislatures of all the Territories has

Dec. 1871.]

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.
Opinion of the court.

been in conformity with this construction. In the laws of
every one of them from that organized under the Ordinance
of 1787 to the Territory of Montana are found acts upon
this subject.* And it is worth while to remark that in three
of the Territories, Nevada, New Mexico, and Idaho, the
judge of the probate has been associated with other officials
in the selection of the lists for the different counties.
This uniformity of construction by so many Territorial
legislatures of the organic acts in relation to their legislative authority, especially when taken in connection with the
fact that none of these jury laws have been disapproved by
Congress, though any of them would be annulled by such
disapproval, confirms the opinibn, warranted by the plaiu
language of the organic act itself, that the whole subjectmatter of jurors in the Territories is committed to Territorial regulation.
If this opinion needed additional confirmation it would be
found in the Judiciary Act of 1789. The regulations of that
act in regard to the selection of jurors have no reference
whatever to Territories. They were framed with reference
to the States, and cannot, without violence to rules of con•struction, be made to apply to Territories of the United
States. If, then, this subject were not regulated by Territorial law, it would be difficult to say that the selection of
jurors had been provided for at all in the Territories.
It is insisted, however, that the jury law of Utah is defective in two material particulars: First, that it requires the
jury lists to be selected by the county court, upon which the
organic law did not permit authority for that purpose to be
conferred: Second, that it requires the jurors to be summoned by the Territorial marshal, who was elected by the
* Wisconsin, organized April 20th, 1836, 5 Stat. at Large, 10; Iowa, June
12th, 1838, Ib. 235; Oregon, August 14th, 1848, 9 Id. 323; Minnesota, March
3d, 1849- lb. 403; New Mexico, September 9th, 1850, lb. 446; Utah, September 9th, 1850, Ib. 453; Nebraska, May 30th, 1854, 10 Id. 277; Kansas,
May 30th, 1854, Ib. 277; Washington, March 2d, 1853, lb. 172; Colorado,
February 28th, 1861, 12 Id. 172; Nevada, Mlarch 2d, 1861, lb. 209; Dakota
March 2d, 1861, Ib. 239; Arizona, February 24th, 1863, Ib. 664; Idaho,
March 3d, 1863, lb. 808; Moitana, May 26th, 1864, 13 Id. 85.

446

CLINTON V. ENGLEBRECHT.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

legislature, and not appointed by the governor. We do not
perceive how these facts, if truly alleged, would make the
mode actually adopted for summoning the jury in this case,
legal. But we will examine the objections.
In the first place we observe that the law has received the
implied sanction of Congress. It was adopted in 1859. It
has been upon the statute-book for more than twelve years.
It must have been transmitted to Congress soon after it was
enacted, for it was the duty of the secretary of the Territory
to transmit to that body copies of all laws, on or before the
1st of the next December in each year. The simple disapproval by Congress at any time, would have annulled it. It
is no unreasonable inference, therefore, that it was approved
by that body.
In the next place, we are of opinion, that the making of
the jury lists by the county courts was not a judicial act.
Conceding that it was not in the power of the Territorial
legislature to confer judicial authority upon any other courts
than those authorized by the organic law, and that it was
not within its competency to organize county courts for the
administration of justice, we cannot doubt the right of the
Territorial legislature to associate select men with the judge
of probate, and to call the body thus organized, a county
court, and to require it to make lists of persons qualified to
serve as jurors. In making the selection, its members acted
as a board, and not as a judicial body.
Nor do we think the other objection sound, viz.: That the
required participation of the Territorial marshal in summoning jurors invalidated his acts, because he was elected by the
legislature, and not appointed by the governor. He acted as
Territorial marshal under color of authority, and if lie was
not legally such, his acts cannot be questioned indirectly.
But, we repeat, that the alleged defects of the Utah jury
law are not here in question. What we are to pass upon is
the legality of the mode actually adopted for impanelling
the jury in this case. If the court had no authority to adopt
that mode, the challenge to the array was well taken, and
should have been allowed.

Dec. 1871.]

CLINTON.V.

ENGLEBRECHT.

Opinion of the court.

Acting upon the theory that the Supreme and District
Courts of the Territory were courts of the United States,
and that they were governed in the selection of jurors by
the acts of Congress, the District Court summoned the jury
in this case by an open venire. We need not pause to inquire whether this mode was in pursuance of any act of
Congress, for, if such act.was not intended to regulate the
procuring of jurors in the Territory, it has no application to
the case before us. We are of opinion that the court erred
both in its theory and in its action.
The judges of the Supreme Court of the Territory are
appointed by the President under the act of Congress, but
this does not make the courts they are authorized to hold
courts of the United States. This was decided long since
in The American Insurance Company v. Canter,* and in the
later case of Benner v. Porler.t There is nothing in the
Constitution which would prevent Congress from conferring the jurisdiction which they exercise, if the judges were
elected by the people of the Territory, and commissioned
by the governor. They might be clothed with the same
authority to decide all cases arising under the Constitution
and laws of the United States, subject to the same revision.
Indeed, it can hardly be supposed that the earliest Territorial
courts did not decide such questions, although there was
no express provision to that effect, as we have already seen,
until a comparatively recent period.
There is no Supreme Court of the United States, nor is
there any District Court of the United States, in the sense
of the Constitution, in the Territory of Utah. The judges
are not appointed for the same terms, nor is the jurisdiction
which they exercise part of the judicial power conferred by
the Constitution or the General government. The courts
are the legislative courts of the Territory, created in virtue
of the clause which authorizes Congress to make all needful
rules and regulations respecting the Territories belonging
to the United States.t
t 9 Howard, 235.
: American Insurance Company v. Canter, 1 Peters, 545.
* 1 Peters, 546.

CLINTON V. ENGLEBREOHT.

[Sup1. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The Supreme Court of the Territory was doubtless misled
by the inadvertent use of the words " marshal of the District Court of the United States for the Territory of Oregon
in the organic law. This act defines the duties, liabilities,
and fees of the marshal for the Territory by reference to
those of the marshal of the District Court of the United
States for the Territory of Oregon. On reference to the act
organizing that Territory, we find that the duties of the
marshal were to be the same as those of the marshal for the
District Court of the United States for the Territory of
Wisconsin. On reference to the act organizing the lastnamed Territory, the duties, liabilities, and fees of the marshal were described to be the same as those of the "marshal
of the District Court of the United States for the Northern
District of New York." Hence, the words "1marshal of the
District Court of the United States" have crept into the
various acts organizing these Territories. But the description of the court which was proper in a State would be improper in a Territory.
The organic act authorized the appointment of an attorney
and a marshal for the Territory, who may properly enough
be called the attorney and marshal of the United States for
the Territory; for their duties in the courts have exclusive
relation to cases arising under the laws and Constitution of
the United States.
The process for summoning jurors to attend in such cases
may be a process for exercising the jurisdiction of the Territorial courts when acting, in such cases, as Circuit and District Courts of the United States; but the making up of the
lists and all matters connected with the designation of jurors
are subject to the regulation of Territorial law. And this is
especially true in cases arising, not under any act of Congress, but exclusively, like the ease in the record, under the
laws of the Territory.
There is nothing in this opinion inconsistent with the
cases of Orchard v. fHughes,* or of Hunt v. Palao,t properly
*1

Wallace, 73.

t- 4 Howard, 589.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
Statement of the case.

understood. The first of these cases went upon the ground
that the chancery jurisdiction conferred upon the courts of
the Territories by the organic act was beyond the reach of
Territorial legislation; and the second, in which the Territorial Court of Appeals was called a court of the United
States, was only intended to distinguish it from a State
court.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the jury in this
case was not selected and summoned in conformity with
law, and that the challenge to the array should have been
allowed. This opinion makes it unnecessary to consider
the other questions in the case.

JUDGMENT RIEVERSED.

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
The Departmental Assemblies had no power under the laws of Mexico regulating the disposition of the public domain, to give it away, either with
or without the assent of the governor, except for the purposes of settlement or cultivation. The right to dispose of it for other purposes
rested with the supreme government alone.
Held, accordingly, that a grant by a Departmental Assembly of a tract
of land embracing an area of over two millions of acres, the grantees
binding themselves to construct two wells for the relief and aid of travellers, and to establish two factories for the use of the State, and to protect them from hostile invasion, was void, whether such grant were
approved by the governor or not.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico; the case being thus:
On the 28th of December, 1845, one Vigil and certain other
persons addressed a petition to the Most Excellent Departmental Assembly, through Armijo, governor of New Mexico,
asking for a grant of a tract of land called, the Jornadadel
.Uverto, binding themselves, if the grant were made, to construct two wells for the relief and aid of travellers, and
establish two factories for the *useof the State, and to protect them from hostile invasion. The governov transmitted
VOL. XlII.

29,

