Dec. 1871.]

THE

PATAPSCO.

Statement of the case.

THE PATAPSCO.
Supplies furnished to a ship in a foreign port and necessary to enable her to
complete her voyage, and actually so used by her, constitute a lien,
unless it can be inferred that the master had funds or the owners had
credit; a presumption difficult to make when the owner is greatly embarrassed, and is raising money in the port where the vessel is, by
mortgage of other vessels owned by him. The lien is of a high character, and when once to bb inferred is removed only by proof which actually displaces it. Entries in a journal, and in a ledger, charging apparently the owners rather than the vessel-proof of the form of entry
in the day-book not appearing, owing to its being dispensed with by
the material-man-d-ed not sufficient to displace the lien.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Southern District
of New York; the case being thus:
Boyce, a coal dealer in Baltimore, filed a libel against the
steamer Patapsco, in the District Court at New York, to recover a demand for six separate supplies of coal furnished
between the 3d of February and the 26th of March, 1866, to
the steamer. ane Borland intervened as claimant. The
question was whethe*r the coal had been furnished on the
credit of the vessel or on that of. her owners only.
The facts, as the court assumed them from the weight of
the evidence, itself somewhat inconsistent, were thus:
The Commercial Steamboat Company, a corporation of
Rhode Island, owned and chartered certain steamers, the
Kingfisher, &c., and used them as a line of steamers from
New York to Baltimore. The Patapsco was chartered by
the company to run on the line, and registered at New York
in the individual name of one Bacon, president of the company; though the company controlled her. The company
had an agent at Baltimore, and the course of dealing was as
follows:
When the steamers would arrive at Baltimore, their engineers would inform this agent of the amount of coal they
needed for their different vessels. Thereupon the agent
would fill up a printed circular directed to Boyce, requesting him to furnish "with invoice," to that steamer, by 'name

THE PATAPSCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

(in this case the Patapsco), so many tons of coal; saying
nothing about charging anybody. Boyce would then fill up
a printed order to his clerk, directing him to furnish the
coal to the steamer named. On receipt of this latter order, the
coal would be delivered on board the steamer. At the end
of a month a bill would be made of all the deliverances to
all the boats. The object of making out a general bill at the
end of each month, it appeared, was to avoid a multiplication of bills, and for the sake of convenience.
The entries in the libellant's journal were thus-one example showing all:
BALTIMORE,

March, 1866.

COMMIERCIAL ST'B'T CO.:

80 tons Geo. C'k, st'r Kingfisher, $7,
25

"

"

"

'C

Patapsco,

7,

80 "
42 "

"

"

"

if

I

"

Kingfisher,
Patapsco,

7,
7,

And in his ledger they were thus:
COMMERCIAL ST'B'T CO.

1866.
Jan'y 30th. To coal ac.,
"
"
" bituminous
Feb.
"
" coal ac.,
Feb.
" bituminous
Mar.
" coal ac.,
9
" bituminous
April
" coal ac.,
c
" bituminous
May 16.
"
cash,

$560
175
560
294
$1,589
DR.

ac.,

$2,896 36
2,963 60

ac.,

2,416 10

790
1,550
ac.,

1,589

1,462 50
ac.,

65
39 10
$13,761

Feb.
"

9,

5th. By cash,
9th.

15th.

cc

c'

cc

Mar. 30th. " coal ac.,
May 5th. " cash,
June 30th. "
"
"
"
" balance,

CR.
$3,000
1,000
1,849
73
136
3,008
4,693

66

96
50
41
79

$13,761 66

To balance,

DR.
$4,693 79

Dec. 1871.]

TiE PATAPSCO.
Statement of the case.

The form of entries in the libellant's day-book did not appear; the claimant waiving the production of it, and the bills
rendered to the company were not produced.
The coal was sold at the lowest price, and it was necessary
for the Patapsco to make her trips and was used by her in
making them. The agent of the steamship company stated
that "the coal bought for the Patapsco was ordered for this
steamer expressly, but on account of the Commercial Steamship Company, the'same as all coal was ordered and bought
for the several steamers constituting the line." "The owners
or charterers," he added, "were not known in the transaction,
but the steamer was supposed to belong to the Commercial
Steamboat Company by the parties who furnished the coal."
During the whole time that this coal was furnished, the
steamboat company was in an embarrassed state. And on
the 3d of February, on which day the first item of the coal
for which the steamer was libelled, was furnished, the steamship company executed six promissory notes for $7500 each
-$45,000 in all-to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company; following them immediately, and by the 6th, by mortgages on three of their steamers to secure payment. And
it owed a balance of $25,800 to the Neptune Steamboat
Company on the 1st February, 1866, so much remaining
due for money laid out, paid, or advanced in the preceding
year.
On the 2d of April, 1866, nine days after the last item of
coal furnished to the Patapsco, the registered owner, Bacon,
executed a bill of sale of her to Borland, already mentioned
as the claimant in the case, to secure to him a debt of $10,500.
And on the 10th following, the company failed entirely;
the failure being followed by attachments to a very large
amount, much of it like the $25,800 already mentioned for

money lent or debts due prior to the 3d February, 1866;
and the result being a general break up of the company in
which the creditors got but a small portion of their claims
from the whole effects of the corporation.
It was in virtue of his bill of sale above mentioned that
Borland contested the libellant's claim.

THF, PATAPSCO.

[Sup. Or.

Argument against the lien.

The District Court dismissed the libel; holding that there
was no credit to the vessel. The Circuit Court, on appeal,
held that there was, and reversed the decree. From this
reversal Borland appealed to this court.
Mr. C. Donohue, for the appellant:
When material-men mean to charge a vessel specifically,
they have, as is perfectly well known, a mode of making
their entry which shows that they do charge it. The vessel
is charged by name. In this case the charge would have
been thus:
THE STEAMER PATAPSCO,

DR.

Or,

THE STEAMER PATAPSCO (Commercial Steamboat Company owners),
DR.

Now the charge here, in the only books produced, is not
in this form, but in another and a different form; one showing that the reliance was on the company navigating the
vessel and ordering the coal; and on it alone. The fihct that
the particular vessel to which the coal was furnished is mentioned in the charge against the company does not prove an
intent to charge the vessel, but only that the material-man
was careful to identify the transaction.
The only possible answer to our view is, that the company
was so embarrassed that it cannot be presumed that it was
looked to. But this is no answer at all, unless you show
that Boyce knew of the embarrassment, or at least suspected
it. There is no proof that he did either. All presumptions
are the other way. The vessels were pursuing their regular
trips. To the world everything appeared as usual. Boyce
had been furnishing coal before, and had been paid, without
question and without any recourse against the vessels. The
vessels of the company were registered in places fair away
from Baltimore, and a hundred mortgages might have been
executed in those places and Boyce never hear of one. The
company did not proclaim that it had borrowed $45,000 of
the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. Even if Boyce knew that

THE P TA PSCO.

Dec. 1871.]

Opinion of the court.

it did so borrow, the case is not altered; for the fact of the
loan did not prove that the coal would not be paid for.
Contrariwise, it showed that the steamboat company was in
possession of ready money. The presumption would be that
it meant to take up small and floating debts by a large and
more permanent loan. A company might occasionally borrow in this way and yet be doing a most successful business.
This court has already gone very far in sustaining secret
liens on vessels. To go further will seriously embarrass the
transfer of this sort of property.
Mr. D. McMahon, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Whether the coal was furnished on the credit of the vessel,
or of the owners, is the only point of inquiry in this case.
The case itself is not without its embarrassments, for the
evidence, in some of its aspects, is not consistent with either
theory, but the weight of it, in our opinion, enables us to
assert the lien against the ship.
It is undisputed that the Patapsco was in a foreign port,
and that the coal was ordered for her, specifically by name,
and delivered to the officers in charge of her. It is equally
free from dispute that the supply of coal was necessaryindeed, indispensable-to enable her to make her voyage at
all. In such a case the inference is, that the credit was
given to the vessel, unless it can be inferred that the master
had finds, or the owners had credit, and that the materialman knew of this, or knew such facts as should have put
him on inquiry.* There is no reason to suppose that the
master had funds, or the owners of the line credit, nor that
the libellant was guilty of laches. On the contrary, it is in
proof that the company which owned the line of steamships
was, at the date of these transactions, hopelessly insolvent,
and were borrowing large sums of money on a mortgage of
their steamers, away from home, and in the very city where
the libellant resided. It would be strange if the libellant
'*

Tbe Lulu, 10 Wallace, 192.

THIE PATAPSCO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

did not know this condition of things, and, in the absence
of proof on the subject, it is a reasonable inference that he
did. If he had this knowledge it would be a violent presumption to suppose that lie relied on the credit of the company at all for the supplies which he furnished. Tie conpany running the steamers was a distant corporation, of no
established name, and without personal liability in case the
enterprise recently undertaken should prove a failure, and
it is hard to believe that a large and intelligent coal merchant in Baltimore, in dealing with this corporation, intended to renounce his claim against the steamers in case
he was not paid. It is very clear that there Was no credit
to the company at theotime of sale, because the coal was
sold for cash at the lowest market price. And when the
libellant waived his privilege of cash on delivery, and put
the coal on board the steamship, the presumption of law
would be that he thereby gave credit to the steamship, and
not to the owners thereof, inasmuch as the supplies were
furnished in a foreign port.
If the credit was to the vessel there is a lien, and the burden of displacing it is on the claimant. He must show,
affirmatively, that the credit was given to the company to
the exclusion of a credit to the vessel. This he seeks to do
by the form of charge in the libellant's journal and ledger.
If it be conceded that these entries tend to support this position, they are far from being conclusive evidence on the
subject. Entries in books are always explainable, and the
truth of the transaction can be shown independent of them.
The form of charge in any book of original entries does not
appear, as the day-book was not called for by the claimants,
nor are the "invoices" which" the libellant was directed to
furnish with the coal produced. But, from the form or
entry in the journal itself (where the amount furnished to
each vessel is set opposite to its name), we are led to the
conclusion that the day-book entries which are thus journalized were debited to each steamer by name. If this be
So, the journal ettries are not inconsistent with the idea of
the credit being given on the security or the ship. More

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.

Syllabus.

especially is this apparent when it is proven that the reason
why monthly accounts were made out to the steamboat company in bulk was for the sake of convenience, and to save a
useless accumulation of bills. There is nothing besides this
journal entry to indicate that the coal was furnished on the
personal credit of the company; and, as the other facts in
the case are in favor of a charge direct to the steamship, we
do not think the legal inference of credit to the ship is removed.
The lien of nraterial-men for supplies in a foreign port is
of so high a character that, in the case of The St. Tago de

Cuba,* it was protected, along with that of seamen's wages,
against a forfeiture which had accrued to the United States;
and the recent decisions in this court have had the effect to
place this lien on a more substantial footing than some previous cases seem to have left it.t
On the whole, while we ,concede that the case is not free
from difficulty, we are not disposed to disturb the decree of
the Circuit Court, in any particular. It is accordingly
APPIRMED.

BRADLEY V. FiSHER.

1. An order of the Criminal Court of the District of Columbia, made in
1867, striking the name of an attorney from its roll, did not remove the
attorney from the bar of the Supreme Court of the District, the Criminal Court being at that time a separate and independent court; and in
an action by the attorney against the judge of the Criminal Court, that
order was inadmissible to show a removal by order of the defendant, or
by order of the court held by him, from the Supreme Court, notwithstanding that an act of Congress, passed in 1870, changed the independent character of the Criminal Court, and declared that its judgments,
decrees, and orders should be deemed the judgments, decrees, and orders
of the Supreme Court of the District. The act of Congress, in enlarging the operation of the order, did not alter its original character.
9 Wheaton, 409.
t The Grapeshot, 9 WRallace, 129; The Lulu, 10 Id. 192; The Kalorama,
Id. 201.

