THE MABEY.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

Remarks to show that the suit in the State court was pending and undisposed of when the bill was filed in the Circuit
Court are unnecessary, as the fact is admitted, and in view
of that fact I am of the opinion that the Circuit Court had
no jurisdiction of the case.
Being of the opinion that the case ought to be reversed
and dismissed for the want of jurisdiction, I do not think it
necessary or proper to express any opinion upon the merits
of the case.

THE MABEY.
A commission from this court to take testimony refused, on an appeal in a
collision case in admiralty, where the party moving had in the District
Court the same witnesses whom he proposed to examine here, and did
not examine them only because he had agreed with a co-defendant (who
was apparently as between themselves alone liable-he, the co-defendant, having led the other defendant into the fault for which the libel
had been filed,-) that he, the co-defendant, would manage the whole
case and pay the sums awarded by any decree (the purpose of this agreement having apparently been to keep from the court below a full knowledge of the case), and where especially the party now moving did not
appeal from the decree of the District Court.

ON motion, the owners of the Chapman had libelled in the
District Court at New York, the steamtug Mabey and the
sailing vessel Cooper, which the tug had been towing out to
sea, for injuries caused to the Chapman by collision on the
way out. The owners of both the tug and sailing vessel
appeared in the District Court with their witnesses, but the
owners of the tug soon withdrew from court, and gave no
evidence in defence of the tug. This course, it appeared,
had been done upon a written agreement between the owners
of the tug and sailing vessel, that the owner of the tug should
take no active part in the conduct of the suit; that no evidence should be offered in behalf of the tug, and that the
owners of the sailing vessel would assume the whole defence for both, and would pay whatever damages should be
awarded against either or both; for the performance of

Dec. 1871.]

Ti.NIAiEY.
Statement of the case.

which agreement the owners of the sailing vessel entered
into bond of $10,000 to the owners of the tug, with two
sureties, whose solvency was then unquestioned. The District Court decreed heavy damages against both tug and
sailing vessel; and an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court,
where the decree was affirmed.
The case was now brought here.
Being here, Mfr. W. W. Goodrich in behalf of the owners of the
tug, moved that a commission issue to take the testimony of
certain witnesses named. The grounds of the motion were
the fact of the agreement above set forth; that the sureties
in the bond had now become insolvent, and that four witnesses whose names were give'n, and whom it was proposed
to examine, were "material witnesses in behalf of the appel]ants, without whose testimony they could not safely proceed." There was no statement of what facts it was, that
the persons proposed to be examined could probably prove.
A counter affidavit stated that the answer of the owners
of the tug alleged that before taking the sailing vessel in
tow, the master of the tug informed the agents of the sailing vessel that it was not safe to proceed to sea in the then
condition of the weather and tide, and that the agents told
the master to proceed, and that their owners would assume
all risks and pay all damages. It represented further that the
witnesses in behalf of the tug had been brought into the District Court, and had abundant opportunity to testify, and had
been sent away, on the agreement, and because the owners
of the tug and sailing vessel "combined to keep from the
knowledge of the court evidence which would have tended
more clearly to establish the right of the libellants to recover, and in the hope, by doing so, to throw upon the libel]ants the whole of the damage;" that the witnesses now
proposed to be examined were entirely within the control of
the owners of the tug at the hearing in the District Court,
and that the testimony proposed to be taken was no more
important now than it had been then; and that the owners
of the tug had not appealed from the decree of the District
Court.

Tim

MVA B Y.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Mr. E. C. Benedict opposed the motion, as one very plainly
improper to be granted even on the case. presented by the
party making it.
Mr. Justice CLI'FORD delivered the opinion of the
court.*
Damages were claimed by the owners of the ship Isaac F.
Chapman for injuries which the ship received in a collision
that occurred between the ship while she was lying at a
dock in the port of New York, and the steamtug R. S. Mabey and the ship Helen R. Cooper, which, at the time of
the collision, was in tow of the steamtug, as more fully set
forth in the libel filed in the District Court. Serious injury
resulted to the ship of the libellants, and they alleged that
the steamtug and the ship Helen It. Cooper were both in
fault. Separate answers were filed by the claimants of the
tug and tow, and both, it seems, made preparation for defence, but before the day for the hearing arrived they entered into the following stipulation, which is an exhibit in
the motion before the court. Omitting the names of the
parties to the suit and the signatures of the proctors, the
stipulation reads as follows:
"It is hereby stipulated by and between the parties representing the claimants of the vessels respondent in the above
action, that said ship, Helen R. Cooper, shall and does
hereby assume the conduct of the defence, and that all and
any judgment ordered against the said vessels, or either of
them, shall be assumed and paid by said ship Helen R.
Cooper."
Application for the same purpose as that described in the
motion was made to this court by the appellants on a prior
occasion during the present term of the court, but it was refused, as no excuse was shown, in the petition or accompanying papers, why the witnesses were not examined either in
the District or Circuit Courts, and the court said some ex* This case was decided at the last term.

Dec. 1871.]

THE MABEY.
Opinion of the court.

cuse should be shown satisfactory to this court for the failure
to examine them in the courts below-such as that the evidence was discovered when it was too late to procure such
examination, or that the witnesses had been subpeonaed and
failed to appear and could not be reached by attachment,
and the like.
Commissions for such a purpose cannot be allowed as of
course, under the twelfth rule, as it would afford an inducement to parties to keep back their testimony in the subordinate courts, and the effect would be to convert this court
into a court of original jurisdiction. Admonished to that
effect by the prior decision of this court the parties have
filed with the present application an affidavit as a compliance
with that requirement. Unsettled, as the practice was prior
to that decision, the parties are right in supposing that this
court would entertain a second application in the same
case.
Governed by these views the court has examined the affidavit and the reasons given why the testimony was not taken
prior to the hearings in one of the subordinate courts, but
the court is constrained to say that the reasons given are not
satisfactory, as they show that the witnesses were in court
and that they were not examined because the party now
asking for the commission agreed that they would not introduce any testimony in the case, and the affidavit shows that
they did not introduce any in the District Court and did not
appeal from the decree, and of course they did not and could
not introduce any in the Circuit Court, as it is well-settled
law that the losing party in the subordinate court cannot be
heard in the appellate court in opposition to the decree in
the subordinate court unless he himself also appealed from
the decree.* Instead of being satisfactory, the reasons set
forth in the affidavit why the testimony was not introduced
in the trials below, are persuasive and convincing that the
motion ought not to be granted. Having accepted the bond
* The William Bagaley, 5 Wallace, 412; The Maria Martin, 12 Id. 31.

742

THE MABEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

of indemnity and failed to make any defence the risk as to
the sufficiency of the sureties was upon the present appellants, and the fact that they misjudged or are disappointed
in that behalf furnishes no reason for the motion before the
court.
MOTION DENIED.

