646

WHITE V. HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

bar affected not the court, but the officer of the army and of
the treasury, whose duty it would otherwise have been to,
adjust and liquidate such demands. When the restriction
was removed the jurisdiction and authority of those officers,
and not of the court, was revived. The phrase "1settlernent,"
used in the resolution, has reference to executive and not tojudicial action. The context of the two acts and the resolution point clearly to, this construction of the latter. The
remedy of the appellees, if they are entitled to any, must be
sought at the hands of the executive or legislative department of the government. The jAdicial department is incompetent to give it.
In our opinion, the Court of Claims erred in taking jurisdiction of either of the claims outside of the contract. The
United Slates v. Bussell* is. clearly distinguished by its coutrolling facts from the present case. It is not intended, to
impugn anything said by the court in that case.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment
IN CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

WHITE V. HART.
3. The Constitution adopted by Georgia, A.D. 1868, by which it was pro'vided that "no court or officer shall have, nor shall the General Assembly give,
jurisdiction to try, or give judgment on, or enforce any debt, the consideration
of which was a slave, or the hire thereof," is to be regarded by the court as
voluntarily adopted by the State named, and not as adopted under any
dictation and coercion of Congress. Congress having received and recognized the said Constitution as the voluntary and valid offering of thp.
State of Georgia, this court is concluded by sucb action of the political
department of the government.
2. At no time during the rebellion were the rebellious States out of the pale
of the Union.

Their conhtitutional duties and obligations remained

unaffected by the rebellion. They could not then pass a law impairing
the obligation of a contract more than before the rebellion, or now,
since.
* Supra, p. 623.

Dec. 1871.]

WHIiTE

v.

HART.

Statement of the case in the opinion.
3. The ideas of the validity of a contract, and of the remedy to enforce it,
are inseparable; and both are parts of the obligation which is guaranteed by the Constitution against invasion. Accordingly, whenever
a State, in modifying any remedies to enforce a contract, does so in a
way to impair substantial rights, the attempted modification is within
the prohibition of the Constitution, and to that extent void.
4. Held,therefore, that the clause of the Constitution of Georgia, quoted in
the first paragraph above, had no effect on a contract made previous to
it, though the consideration of the contract was a slave.
5. A note of which the consideration is a slave, slavery being at the time
lawful by the law of the place where the note was given, is valid.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Georgia.

Mr.P.Phillips and Hr. Broyce argued the ease fully and ably
for the plaintiff in error.
*No counsel appeared on the other side; the reliance of that
party having apparently been on the argument contained in
the opinion given by Brown, C. J., in behalf of the Supreme
Court of Georgia.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The suit was instituted by the plaintiff in error on the
10th of January, 1866, in the Superior Court of Chattooga
County. He declared upon a promissory note made to him
by the defendants in error for twelve hundred and thirty
dollars, dated February 9th, 1859, and payable on the 1st of
March, A.D. 1860. The defendant pleaded in abatement
that "the consideration of the note was a slave," and that
"by the present Constitution of Georgia, made and adopted
since the last pleadings in this case, the court is prohibited to
take and exercise jurisdiction or render judgment therein.,,
To this plea the plaintiff demurred. The court overruled
the demurrer and gave judgment for the defendants. The
plaintiff excepted and removed the case to the Supreme
Court of the State, where the judgment was affirmed, and
the plaintiff thereupon prosecuted this writ of error. The

WHITE

v.

HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Constitution of Georgia of 1868, which is still in force, contains* the following clause:
"Provided, that no court or officer shall have, nor shall the
General Assembly give, jurisdiction to try, or give judgment on,
or enforce any debt the consideration of which was a slave or
the hire thereof."
From the close of the rebellion until Georgia was restored
to her normal relations and functions in the Union, she was
governed under the laws of the United States known as the
Recpnstruction Acts. Under these laws her present constitution was framed, adopted, and submitted to Congress.
Among the terms of her rehabilitation prescribed by the
acts referred to it was made a fundamental condition that
certain designated parts of the constitution so submitted
should "be null and void, and that the General Assembly
of the State" should, "by a solemn act, declare the assent
of the State" to the required modification.t The constitution was modified accordingly. When submitted it contained the proviso here under consideration. No objection
was made to the proviso, and it has since remained a part
of the instrument. With her constitution thus modified,
Congress enacted "that the State of Georgia, having complied with the Reconstruction Acts, and the fourteenth and
fifteenth amendments to the Constitution of the United
States having been ratified in good faith by a legal legislature of said State, it is hereby declared that the State of
Georgia is entitled to representation in the Congress of the
United States."t Her representatives and senators were
thereupon admitted to seats in Congress. This act removed
the last of the disabilities and penalties which were visited
upon her for her share of the guilt of the rebellion. The condonation by the National government thus became complete.
The judgment we are called upon to review is sought to
be maintained upon the following grounds:
* Art. 5, 17, paragraph 7.

t 15 Stat. at Large, 73; Act of June 25th, 1868.
$ Act of June 16th, 1870, 16 Stat. at Large, 363, 364.

Dec. 1871.]

WHITE v. HART.

649

Opinion of the court.

(1.) That when the constitution of 1868 was adopted
Georgia was not a State of the Union; that she had sunaered her connection as such, and was a conquered territory
wholly at the mercy of the conqueror; and that hence the
inhibition of the States by the Constitution of the United
States to pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts
had no application to her.
(2.) That her constitution does not affect the contract, but
only denies jurisdiction to her courts to enforce it.
(3.) That her constitution was adopted under the dictation
and coercion of Congress, and is the act of Congress, rather
than of the State: and that, though a State cannot pass a
law impairing the validity of contracts, Congress can, and
that, for this reason also, the inhibition in the Constitution
of the United States has no effect in this case.
The third of these propositions is clearly unsound, and requires only a few remarks. Congress authorized the State
to frame a new constitution, and she elected to proceed
within -the scope of the authority conferred. The result was
submitted to Congress as a voluutary and valid offering, and
was so received and so recognized in the subsequent action
of that body. The State is estopped to assail it upon such
an assumption. Upon the same grounds she might deny
the validity of her ratification of the constitutional amendments. The action of Congress upon the subject cannot be
inquired into. The case is clearly one in which the judicial
is bound to follow the action of the political department of
the government, and is concluded by it.* We may add,
that if Congress had expressly dictated and expressly approved the proviso in question, such dictation and approval
would be without effect. Congress has no power to supersede the National Constitution.
The subject presented by the first proposition has been
considered under some of its aspects several times by this
* Luther v. Borden, 7 Howard, 43, 47, 57; Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch,
272; Gelston v. Hoyt, 3 Wheaton, 324; Id. 634; Williams v. The Suffolk
Ins. Co., 13 Peters, 420.

WHITE

v).

H:ART.

[Sup. Cr.

Opinion of the court.

court. We need do little more upon this occasion than to
reaffirm the views heretofore expressed, and add such further
remarks as are called for by the exigencies of the case before us.
The National Constitution was, as its preamble recites, ordained and established by the people of the United States.
It created not a confederacy of States, but a government of
individuals. It assumed that the government and the Union
which it created, and the States which were incorporated
into the Union, would be indestructible and perpetual; and
as far as human means could accomplish such a work, it intended to make them so. The government of the Nation
and the government of the States are each alike absolute
and independent of each other in their respective spheres of
action; but the former is as much a part of the government
of the people of each State, and as much entitled to their
allegiance and obedience as their own local State governments-" the Constitution of the United States and the laws
made in pursuance thereof," being in all cases where they
apply, the supreme law of the land. For all the purposes of
the National government, the people of the United States are
an integral, and not a composite mass, and their unity and
identity, in this view of the subject, are not affected by their
segregation by State lines for the purposes of State government and local administration. Considered in this connection, the States are organisms for the performance of their
appropriate functions in the vital system of the larger polity,
of which, in this aspect of the subject, they form a part, and
which would perish if they were all stricken from existence
or ceased to perform their allotted work. The doctrine of
secession is a doctrine of treason, and practical secession is
practical treason, seeking to give itself triumph by revolutionary violence. The late rebellion was without any element of right or sanction of law. The duration and ruagnitude of the war did not change its character. In some
respects it was not unlike the insurrection of a county or
other municipal subdivision of territory against the State to
which it belongs. In such cases the State has inherently

Dec. 1871.]

WrHiTE v. HART.

Opinion of the court.

the right to use all the means necessary to put down the
resistance to its authority, and restore peace, order, and
obedience to law. If need be, it has the right also to call
on the government of the Union for the requisite aid to that
end. Whatever precautionary or penal measures the State
may take when the insurrection is suppressed, the proposition would be a strange one to maintain, that while it
lasted the county was not a part of the State, and hence was
absolved from the duties, liabilities, and restrictions which
would have been incumbent upon it if it had remained in its
normal condition and relations. The power exercised in
putting down the late rebellion is given expressly by the
Constitution to Congress. That body made the laws and
the President executed them. The granted power carried
with it not only the right to use the requisite means, but it
reached further and carried with it also authority to guard
against the renewal of the conflict, and to remedy the evils
arising from it in so far as that could be effected by appropriate legislation.* At no time were the rebellious States
out of the pale of the Union. Their rights under the Constitution were suspended, but not destroyed. Their constitutional duties and obligations were unaffected and remained
the same. A citizen is still a citizen, though guilty of crime
and visited with punishment. His political rights may be
put in abeyance or forfeited. The result depends upon the
rule, as defined in the law, of the sovereign against whom
he has offended. If he lose his rights he escapes none of his
disabilities and liabilities which before subsisted. Certainly
he can have no new rights or immunities arising from his
crime. These analogies of the county and the citizen are
not inapplicable, by way of illustration, to the condition of
the rebel States during their rebellion. The legislation of
Congress shows that these were the views entertained by
that department of the government.
In the several acts admitting new States the same formula
substantially is used in all cases. It is, that the State named
* Stewart v. Kahn, ll.Wallace, 506.

WHITE V.

HART.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"shall be and is hereby declared to be one of the United
States of America, and is hereby admitted into the Union,
upon an equal footing with the original States, in all respects
whatsoever."* In the several Reconstruction Acts, the language used in this connection is, that the State in question
shall be declared entitled to representation in Congress,
and senators and representatives shall be admitted therefrom."t " Shall be entitled and admitted to representation
in Congress as a State of the Union, when," &c.1 And,
lastly, in the final act as to Georgia-" It is hereby declared
that the State of Georgia is entitled to representation in the
Congress of the United States."ยง
The different language employed in the two classes of
cases evinces clearly that, in the judgment of Congress, the
reconstructed States had not been out of the Union, and that
to bring them back into full communion with the loyal
States, nothing was necessary but to permit them to restore
their representation in Congress. Without reference to this
element of the case, we should have come to the same conelusion. But the fact is one of great weight in the consideration of the subject. And we think it is conclusive upon
the judicial department of the government.11
Georgia, after her rebellion and before her representation
was restored, had no more power to grant a title of nobility,
to pass a bill of attainder, an ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts, or to do anything else
prohibited to her by the Constitution of the United States,
than she had before her rebellion began, or after her restoration to ller normal position in the Union. It is well settled
by the adjudications of this court, that a State can no more
impair the obligation of a contract by adopting a constitution
than by passing a law. In the eye of the constitutional inhibition they are substantially the same thing.
* Act of June 15th, 1836, 5 Stat. at Large, 50.

t Act of March 2d, 1867, 14 Id. 429; act of March 23d, 1867, 15 Id. 4.
: Act of June 25th, 1868, Ib. 73.
Luther v. Borden, 7 Howard, 57.

Act of July 15th, 1870, 16 Id. 364.

Dec. 1871.]

"WHITE V.

H:ART.

Opinion of the court.

The second proposition remains to be considered.- When
the note was executed and until the constitution of 1868 was
adopted, the courts of the State had unquestionable jurisdiction to entertain a suit brought to enforce its collection, and
if that jurisdiction ceased it was by reason of the provision
of the constitution of the State, here under consideration.
The question presented by this proposition was fully considered by this court in Van Htoffman v. The City of Quincy.*
The city had sold its bonds under acts of the legislature of
Illinois, which authorized their issue and required the assessment and collection of a special tax to meet the interest;
and it was declared that the amount so raised should be applied to that object "and to no other purpose whatsoever."
The legislature subsequently passed an act which prohibited
any tax beyond the amount therein specified to be imposed.
This tax yielded a sum barely sufficient to meet the municipal.wants of the city-leaving nothing to be applied to the
interest upon the bonds. This court held the prohibition,
so far as it affected the special tax, to be void, and by a writ
of mandamfius ordered that tax to be collected and applied,
as if the subsequent act had not been passed. It wa said,
"the laws which subsist at the time and place of the making
of a contract, and where it is to be performed, enter into
and form a part of it, as if they were expressly referred to or
incorporated in its terms. . . . Nothing can be more material to the obligation than the means of enforcement."
Without the remedy, the contract may indeed, in the sense
of the law, be said not to exist, and its obligation to fall
within the class of those moral and social duties, which depend for their fulfilment wholly upon the will of the individual. The ideas of validity and remedy are inseparable
and both are parts of the obligation which is guaranteed by
the Constitution against invasion. The obligation of a con.tract "is the law which binds the parties to perform their
agreement." It was said further, that the State may modify
the remedy, but not so as to impair substantial rights; and
* 4 Wallace, 552.

OSBORN V. NICHOLSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

that whenever this result "is produced, the act is within the
prohibition of the Constitution, and to that extent void."
When the contract here in question was entered into, ample
remedies existed. All were taken away by the proviso in
the new constitution. Not a vestige was left. Every means
of enforcement was denied, and this denial if valid involved
the annihilation of the contract. But it is not valid. The
proviso which seeks to work this result, is, so far as all preexisting contracts are concerned, itself a nullity. It is to
them as ineffectual as if it had no existence. Upon the
question as thus presented, several eminent State courts
have expressed the same views.*
As the case is disclosed in the record we entertain no
doubt of the original validity of the note, nor of its validity
when the decision before us was made. But as that question
was not raised in this case, we deem it unnecessary to remark further upon the subject.
JUDGMENT REVERSED and the case remanded to the Supreme Court of Georgia, with directions to proceed
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissented from this judgment.
See the next case, and his opinion at page 663, infra.

OSBORN V.

NICHOLSON ET AL.

A person in Arkansas, one of the late slaveholding States, for a valuable
consideration, passed in M1arch, 1861, before the rebellion had broken
out, sold a negro slave which he then had, warranting "the said negro
to be a slave for life, and also warranting the title to him clear and perfect." The 13th amendment to the Constitution, made subsequently
(A. D. 1865), ordained that "neither slavery nor involuntary servitude . . .
shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction."
Held, that negro slavery having been recognized as lawful at the time
when and the place where the contract was made, and the contract

* Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 289.

