CLYDE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the appellant.-Argument for the United States.

tions to enter a decree of dismissal as to this first count in
the petition.
Mr. Justice FIELD dissented from this judgment.
[See the next case.]

CLYDE V. UNITED STATES.
A rule of the Court of Claims, requiring parties to present their claims to
an executive department before suing in that court, is unauthorized and
void.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being argued
and disposed of at the same time with the preceding one.
Clyde, the claimant in the preceding case, presented his
petition in that court, the same petition mentioned in that
case, claiming by the second count of it compensation fir
the use of his barge William Hunt, as he had in the former
appeal, claimed by the first count, compensation for the use
of the Tallacca.
The Court of Claims dismissed the claim on the ground
that it was not presented in conformity with a rule of practice which the court then had, but which has since been abrogated. This rule required that where the case was such
as is ordinarily settled in any executive department, the petition should show that application fbr its allowance had
been made to that department, and without success, and its
decision thereon.
From the action of the court, Clyde, the claimant, appealed to this court.

Messrs. C. F Peck and T. J. _Ditrant,for the appellant, argued that the rule in question was one both arbitrary and
without authority.
Messrs. B. I. Brislow and C. If. Bill, contra, contended
that it was both useful and proper; and that not having

Dec. 1871.]

CLYDE V. UNITED

STATES.

Opinion of the court.

been complied with, the court below properly refused to
hear the case.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
However useful and proper such a rule as that complained
of by the appellant may have been prior to the enactment
of the law passed June 25th, 1868,* which requires the Attorney-General to obtain from the proper department, and
the department to furnish, such facts, circumstances, and
evidence as it might be in possession of in relation to any
claim prosecuted in the Court of Claims, we are of opinion
that it was not competent for the Court of Claims to impose
it as a condition of presenting a claim iu that court. Instead
of being a rule of practice, it was really an additional restriction to the exercise of jurisdiction by that court. It required
the claimant to do what the acts giving the court jurisdiction did not require him to do before it would assume jurisdiction of his case.
The act of 1855, which created the court, declares that it
shall "hear and determine all claims founded upon any law
of Congress, or upon any regulation of an executive department, or upon any contract, express or implied, with the
government of the United States, which may be suggested
to it by a petition filed therein." The rule adopted by the
court required that the claimant should not only have such
a claim as stated in the act, but should have first gone
through the department which might have entertained it,
before he would be permitted to prosecute in that court.
This was establishing a jurisdictional requirement which
Congress alone had the power to establish.
This judgment of dismissal is therefore reversed, and the
record remitted with directions to proceed to a hearing on,
the second count.
* 15 Stat. at Large, 76.

