Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V.

CLYDE.

Statement of the case.

one State from discriminating injuriously against the products of other States, or the rights of their citizens, in the
imposition of taxes, but where a State, except in such cases,
has the power to tax, there is no authority in this court, nor
in the United States, to control its action, however unreasonable or oppressive. The power of the State, except in
such cases, is absolute and supreme.*
The argument for the tax on the wines in the present
case, that it is not greater than the tax upon other property
of the same value held by citizens of the State, would justify
a like tax upon securities of the United States, in which
form probably a large amounuf of the property of some of
her citizens consists; yet it has been repeatedly held that
such securities are exempted from State taxation, whether
the tax be imposed directly upon them by name or upon
them as forming a part in the aggregate of the property of
the taxpayer.t The rule is general that whenever taxation
by a State is forbidden, or would interfere with the full exercise of a power vested in the government of the United
States over the same subject, it cannot be imposed. Imports, therefore, whilst retaining their distinctive character
as such, must be treated as being without the jurisdiction
of the taxing power of the State.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of California must be
REVERSED.

UNITED STATES V. CLYDE.
Receiving payment of a sum of money for a disputed claim against the government and giving a receipt in full therefor, will, in the absence of
proof of any mistake, be deemed a satisfaction of the claim.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

Clyde presented his petition in that court, claiming, by
* Woodruff v. Parham, 8 Wallace, 123; Hinson v. Lott, Ib. 148.
t Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620.

UNITED STATES V. OLYDE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

one count of it (the first), compensation for the use of his
ferry-boat Tallacca.
The fact5 found by the court were, that on the 16th of
November, 1862, the Tallacca, owned by the claimant and
at the time lying at Alexandria, was chartered by Captain
Ferguson, an assistant quartermaster of the United States
army, at the rate of $115 per day, for every day she might
be employed in the service of the United States, and until
returned to the port whence taken ; and that the said boat
continued in the service of the government from the date of
the charter-party until the 31st of July, 1863, and was paid
at the agreed rate up to the last of February, 1863, without
objection; but that, on the 13th of May, 1863, the Quartermaster-General disapproved of the charter-party by the following order:
"The charter of the Tallacca is disapproved by the Quartermaster-,General. She will be paid for only at the rate of $75 per
day from the date of her charter, so long as she may be retained

in the service. The excess of $40 per day already paid will be
deducted on the present settlement for her services from MKarch
1st, 1863, &c."
The claimant received notice of the contents of this order
during the month of May. lie refused to consent to the
reduction, but did not show to the Court of Chims whether,
on receiving notice of this order, he determined to allow his
boat to remain in the service at the reduced rate, or sought
to take her out of it. The boat in fact remained in the service until July 31st, 1863. No further payment was made
until December, 1863, when the quartermaster stated the
account at the reduced rate, deducted the excess of $40 per
day paid on the former settlements, and paid the claimant
the balance. The claimant receipted for this balance as "in
full of the above accountl."
Upon these facts the Court of Claims decided that the
claimant was entitled to be paid at the rate named in the
charter-party until he received notice of the reduction made
by the Quartermaster-General, and after that, at the reduced
rate.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. CLYDE.

Opinion of the court.

From this decision both parties appealed; the United States
on the ground that the payment received and receipt given
by Clyde was a bar to any further claim upon the government-a position for which they relied on the United States
v. Child et al., decided at the last term*-the claimant on the
ground that he was entitled to have the full amount stipulated for in the charter-party.
Messrs. B. 1T Bristow and C. -H.Hill, for the United States;
Messrs. G. F. .Peek and T. .7. -Durant,contra, for the claimant.
iMfr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
On the principles determined by this court in the late case
of the United States v. Child et al., we think that the Court of
Claims erred in the decision made. From the time that the
order 6f the Quartermaster-General was made, disapproving
of the charter-party and razeeing the rate for the whole period
of service, the case was clearly one of dispute, at least, if not
one of acquiescence on the part of the claimant. Notwithstanding this order he permitted his boat to remain in the
service until the 81st of July, knowing the change of terms
which the Quartermaster-General had made. It cannot be
pretended that there were two lettings, or two charter-parties, of the vessel. There was only one; and as to this one
the government determined to allow one rate,and the claimant insisted on another. - The government stood on the order
of the superior officer and insisted that this should govern
the contract; the claimant insisted the contrary. Under
these circumstances the final determination of the latter to
take the balance of the account as made out on the basis
contended for by the government, and his giving a receipt
in full, is clear evidence that he agreed to take that balance
in satisfaction of the claim; and this fact, under the circumstances of the case, concludes him from making any further
demand.
Judgment reversed, and the record remitted with direc* 12 Wallace, 232.

CLYDE V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the appellant.-Argument for the United States.

tions to enter a decree of dismissal as to this first count in
the petition.
Mr. Justice FIELD dissented from this judgment.
[See the next case.]

CLYDE V. UNITED STATES.
A rule of the Court of Claims, requiring parties to present their claims to
an executive department before suing in that court, is unauthorized and
void.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims; the case being argued
and disposed of at the same time with the preceding one.
Clyde, the claimant in the preceding case, presented his
petition in that court, the same petition mentioned in that
case, claiming by the second count of it compensation fir
the use of his barge William Hunt, as he had in the former
appeal, claimed by the first count, compensation for the use
of the Tallacca.
The Court of Claims dismissed the claim on the ground
that it was not presented in conformity with a rule of practice which the court then had, but which has since been abrogated. This rule required that where the case was such
as is ordinarily settled in any executive department, the petition should show that application fbr its allowance had
been made to that department, and without success, and its
decision thereon.
From the action of the court, Clyde, the claimant, appealed to this court.

Messrs. C. F Peck and T. J. _Ditrant,for the appellant, argued that the rule in question was one both arbitrary and
without authority.
Messrs. B. I. Brislow and C. If. Bill, contra, contended
that it was both useful and proper; and that not having

