INSURANCE COMPANY

v.

TiiWING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

they thought that the act of Congress did not warrant the
granting of a new trial on a petition filed subsequent to an
appeal and the return of the mandate from the court.

INSURANCE COMPANY V. THWING.
1. Mderchandise, carried under bill of lading and paying freight is cargo
and not dunnage, although stowed as dunnage would be stowed for the

purpose of protecting the rest of the cargo from wet, and put on board
by the shipper with knowledge that it would be so stowed.
2. A warranty in a ship's policy "not to load more than her registered tonnage," will be broken by carrying more cargo in weight than such tonnage, though the excess be used as dunnage; whilst, if such excess had
been mere dunnage, and not cargo, the warranty would not have been
broken.

IN error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Massachusetts.
This was an action of assumpsit for money had and received, brought by The Great Western Insurance Company,
of New York, against AV. Thwing, a citizen of Massachusetts, to recover certain insurance money which the company
had paid to him in ignorance (as they alleged) of a breach
of warranty by him. They had made him a policy on his
ship Alhambra, on a voyage from Liverpool to San Francisco, which policy was dated the 6th of October, 1863, and
contained, amongst other things, this clause:

"Warranted not to load more than her registered tonnage
with lead, marble, coal, slate, copper ore, salt, stone, bricks,
grain, or iron, either or all, on any one passage."
The registered tonnage was 1285 tons, and the vessel took
on board at Liverpool, among other things, 1064 tons of iron,
6 tons of brick, and 238 tons of cannel coal, being an excess
over the registered tonnage of 23 tons. The ship having
sustained a partial loss on the voyage, the insurance company paid the money in question in ignorance of the amount

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. THWING.

673

Statement of the case.

of cargo, and based their claim to recover it back on the
ground that the payment was made under a mistake of fact.
The defence set up was, that the 238 tons of cannel coal
was not cargo, but dunnage.
The defendant showed a charter-party with James Starkie,
of Liverpool, by which the charterer was to have the full
reach of the vessel's hold, and was to pay 51 shillings for
every ton of freight put on board; that the master agreed
with the charterer, in addition to the agreement in the charter-party, that the latter should furnish 250 tons of cannel
coal for dunnage of the ship for the voyage, and that under
this agreement he received the said 238 tons as dunnage,
and that it was used and placed along the ship's bottom, fore
and aft, as dunnage; that the captain signed a bill of lading
for it; that it was on his freight list; that he collected freight,
51 shillings per ton, for it, and delivered it in San Francisco
the same as he did the rest of his cargo; that it was better
for dunnage than plank. The defendant also offered evidence of experts to show that a cargo was not properly
stowed unless properly dunnaged, and that in cargoes from
Liverpool cannel coal is frequently used for dunnage, and,
when so used for certain cargoes, is liable to be crushed;
that when cannel coal is received for cargo it is usually,
though not always, stowed in a different manner from what
it is when used as dunnage, and that it is sometimes taken
as dunnage on ship's account, and then is sold at the port of
discharge on ship's account.
Upon this testimony the plaintiffs' counsel asked the court
to instruct the'jury that, if freight was received and paid for
this coal, it came within the warranty, although used as dunnage. The court declined so to rule; but ruled that if the
jury believed, from the evidence, that the cannel coal was
received and used as dunnage, and not as cargo, it would
not amount to a loading under the clause of the policy referred to, and the plaintiffs could not recover. Under this
ruling the jury found for the defendant. The bill of exceptions brought up the question as to the correctness of this
ruling.
VOL. XIII.

43

INSURANCE

COMPANY V.

THWING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case was very well argued; orally by Mr. R. .H.Dana
(briefs of Messrs. M. -E.12qalls and C. L. Woodbury being filed),
and by Mr.Sydney Bartlett on a brief, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
There is considerable analogy between dunnage and ballast. The latter is used for trimming the ship, and bringing
it down to a draft of water proper and safe for sailing. Dunnage is placed under the cargo to keep it from being wetted
by water getting into the hold, or between the different-pareels to keep them from bruising and injuring each other.
Vebstev's definition of dunnage is "fagots, boughs, or loose
materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of a ship to raise
heavy goods above the bottom, to prevent injury by water
in the hold; also, loose articles of merchandise wedged between parts of the cargo to prevent rubbing, and to hold
them steady." Lord Tenterden says: "It is, in all cases,
the duty of the master to provide ropes, &c., proper for the
actual reception of the goods in the ship. . . . The ship
must also be furnished with proper dunnage (pieces of wood
placed against the sides and bottom of the hold) to preserve
the cargo from the effects of leakage, according to its nature
and quafity."*
It seems to be conceded by the plaintiffs that if the cannel
coal can be regarded as dunnage, there was no breach of the
warranty. In other words, it is conceded that when the
assured warranted "not to load more than her registered
tonnage," ballast and dunnage were not included in the
warranty. And it is not pretended that the cannel coal used
on this occasion was more than was proper for dunnage.
Had some useless articles been employed for that purpose,
such as chips or blocks of wood, though weighing precisely
what this coal weighed, and had no freight been paid for it,
the insurance company could not have complained.
It is the master's duty to provide both ballast and dunnage
when necessary for the safe and proper transportation of his
* Abbott on Shipping, Pt. IV, c.5,

1.

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE COMPANY v.

TnwiN.

Opinion of the court.

cargo. And it has been held that, in selecting materials
for these purposes, even when he has chartered the entire
capacity of his ship for articles which require ballast or dunnage, he is not precluded from taking articles on which he
can realize freight. Thus, in the case of Towse v. Henderson,*
where, upon a charter-party, it was agreed that the vessel
should proceed from Singapore to Whampoa, and there load
from the agents of the affreighters a full and complete cargo
of tea, and the master took in as ballast eighty tons of antimony ore, for which he received freight as merchandise, it
was held that, if it occupied no more space than ballast
would have done, he was entitled to do it. In that case a
full cargo of tea (which was all that the charterer stipulated
for) still needed ballast, which it was the duty of the shipmaster to supply. Hence it could make no difference to the
charterer what material was used for ballast, if it did not
encroach upon the loading capacity of the vessel for tea.
The question still recurs, howe ,er, whether merchandise
used for the purpose of ballasting a ship, or for the purpose
of dunnage, and paying freight as merchandise, can be considered as part of the ship's loading within the meaning of,
a warranty against an excess of loading beyond a limited
amount, it being conceded that an equal quantity of ballast
or dunnage proper would not be so regarded? Has the
court a right to import into the contract an implied qualification that a reasonable amount of merchandise proper for
ballast or dunnage shall not be reckoned as loading within
the meaning of the contract? It is clear that the law does
make the implied qualification that ballast and dunnage
shall not be regarded as loading within the contract. Is it
reasonable to extend that qualification to merchandise used
as ballast or dunnage? If so, then, in the case of a cargo
consisting of only one article, which needed no ballast or
dunnage, the ship-owner would be entitled to deduct a reasonable amount for those purposes; and if there were a government regulation, that no ship should carry more cargo in
* 4 Exchequer, 890.

INSURANCE

COMPANY V. THWING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

weight than the amount of her registered tonnage, she would
on the same principle be entitled not only to carry ballast
and dunnage (properly such) in addition to her legal amount
of cargo, but, where ballast and dunnage could be dispensed
with, she would be entitled to carry an additional amount
of cargo, beyond the legal allowance, equivalent to reasonable ballast and dunnage.
Such a construction could not be a sound one. It would
be an arbitrary modification of the words of a law or contract. If the legislature in the one case, or the parties in
the other, were willing that such a qualification should be
made, it would always be very easy to make it in express
terms. It would seem to be a dangerous practice for the
court to make it for them.
It is not every cargo that requires ballast. Many cargoes
will themselves sufficiently ballast the ship. Cargo may be
so assorted that certain portions of it may act as ballast.
And where a ship is doing a miscellaneous carrying business, it would seem to be the dictate of sound business judgment so to assort and arrange the cargo (if practicable) as to
dispense with the use of ballast properly so called. For by
this means the whole carrying capacity of the ship is saved
for cargo. And when this idea is acted on, those portions
of the cargo which are selected and used for trimming and
settling the ship, may, in a loose and popular sense, be called
ballast. But, nevertheless, they are not ballast in a legal or
proper sense. They remain cargo.
Precisely the same may be said with regard to dunnage.
Many kinds of cargo require no dunnage whatever. They
are composed of articles which will not be injured by water,
nor by contact with each other. A cargo may be so assorted
that sonic portions of it may be placed so as to keep the
other portions dry, or prevent them from coming into mutual collision. It is manifest in this case, as in that of ballast, that a prudent and skilful master of a vessel will (if
practicable) so assort and arrange his cargo as to dispense
with dunnage proper. And yet, in a loose sense, the articles
of merchandise which he uses to perform the office of dun-

Dec. 1871.]

INSURANCE

COmPANY V. THWING.

Opinion of the court.

nage, may be called dunnage. Still they are not legally nor
properly such. If they are merchandise, they are cargo, and
'form part of the vessel's lading. They will be subject to
duties, and they will be covered by insurance on the cargo.
It is true that ballast or dunnage, even when clearly such,
as shingle from the beach, wooden slabs, chips, or brush,
may be sold for some small sum after the voyage is ended;
but that will not make it any the less ballast or dunnage as
contradistinguished from merchandise. No person of ordinary intelligence would find any difficulty in making the distinction. Had such articles been used in the case before us,
though of the same weight as the cannel coal, the insurance
company could not have complained; for it would not have
been cargo. But when merchandise is used in lieu of dunnage, or to perform the office of dunnage, it does not lose
its character as cargo; and the insurance company have the
right to treat it as cargo. And it is evident that no form of
words which the captain and the charterer might use on the
subject can affect the rights of the insurance company. It
would be res inter altos acla.
In view of these considerations it seems to us that the
charge of the court was calculated to mislead the jury on
the question at issue. It was "that if they believed that the
coal was received and used as dunnage, and not as cargo, it would
not amount to a loading under the warranty of the policy."
The evidence justified and required the instruction asked
by the plaintiffs, namely, that if freight was received and
paid for the coal, it was cargo, and came within the warranty.
Here was an admitted fact, which gave character to the article, stamping it as merchandise. Freight is never paid for
mere dunnage, any more than for the sails and rigging of
the ship.
The argument that it made no difference to the insurance
company whether coal or any other article was used as dunnage, is unsound. It does make this difference: if coal paying freight is merchandise, it is within the warranty; if mere
dunnage were used, it would not be within the warranty.
And the company were entitled to the benefit of those re-

678

INSURANCE COMPANY v. THwING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the Chief Justice and of Clifford and Swayne, JJ., dissenting.

sults which the mutual self-interest of the parties would lead
them to adopt. The company made their contract in view
and in anticipation of all these considerations.
Our attention has been called to another case between the
same parties on the same policy of insurance, decided by the
Supreme Court of Massachusetts, and reported in 103 Massachusetts Reports, p. 401, in which a decision was made adverse to the views which we have expressed. With all due
respect fbr that intelligent and learned tribunal, and after
giving full consideration to the views presented in the
opinion given in that case, we cannot bring ourselves to a
different conclusion from that to which we have come.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, with instructions to issue a
VENIRE DE NOVo.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD, with whom concurred the
CHIEF JUSTICE and Mr. Justice SWAYNE, dissenting.
Unable to concur in the views of the majority of the court
in this case, and regarding the question presented as one of
considerable practical importance, I deem it proper to state
very briefly.the grounds of my dissent.
Insurance was obtained by the defendant on his ship Alhambra, from Liverpool to San Francisco; she received injuries by perils of the sea during the voyage, and the plaintiffs, as insurers, paid the loss under protest and brought this
suit to recover back the amount. The policy contained the
warranty described in the opinion of the court, and the claim
to recover back the amount paid for the loss is based solely
upon the fact that the ship took on board twenty-three tons
of the excepted articles mentioned in the warranty, in excess
of her registered tonnage. Two hundred and thirty-eight
tons of the loading consisted of cannel coal, which the proors
showed was often used as dunnage, and that much more in
quantity of the coal than the excess mentioned was used for
dunnage on this occasion. Dunnage is required in every
case, and it is not shown nor pretended that any more was
used in loading the cargo than was necessary for the purpose.

Dec. 1871.]

WATSON V.

JONES.

Syllabus.

Deduct from the loading the amount of the coal used as dunnage, and it is conceded that the loading of the ship did not
exceed her registered tonnage, and the jury have found that
the excess beyond her registered tonnage was used as dunnage, and I have no doubt it was properly so used.
Beyond doubt the ship-owner in ballasting his chartered
vessel may take freight-paying merchandise for that purpose,
provided the merchandise occupies no more space than the
ballast would have done if ordinary ballast had been used
instead of merchandise paying freight, and I am of the
opinion that the same rule should be applied in respect to
the dunnage used in stowing the cargo.* Such was also the
opinion of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts in a suit between these same parties which arose out of an insurance on
the same voyage.t
Much discussion of the question is unnecessary, as the
views which I entertain and the authorities to support them
are very fully given in that opinion and in the opinion of the
district judge, in which I also concur.

WATSON V. JONES.
1. When in courts of concurrent jurisdiction, the pendency of a suit in one
is relied on to defeat a second suit in the other, the identity of the parties, of the case made, and of the relief sought, should be such that if
the first suit had been decided it could be pleaded in bar as a former adjudication.
2. In such cases, the proceedings in an appellate court are part of the proceedings in the first court, and orders made by it to be enforced by the
court of primary jurisdiction are, while unexecuted, a part of the case
in the first suit, which may be relied on as lis pendeos in reference to
the second suit.
3. Hence an unexecuted order of this kind, made by a State court to restore
possession to the parties who had been deprived of it by a decree which
had been reversed, cannot be interfered with by another court by way
of injunction, especially by a court of the United States, by reason of
the act of Congress of March 2A, 1793. (1 Stat. at Large, 334, 5.)
* Towse v. Henderson, 4 Exchequer, 890.
t Thwing v. Great Western Insurance Co., 103 Massachusetts, 401.

