Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. AVERY.

Statement of the case.

Applying this rule to the present case it is decisive. The
relator's claim for payment had not been brought to judgment in the Circuit Court, nor had it been put in suit. His
application for 2 mandamus was, therefore, an original proceeding, neither necessary nor ancillary to any jurisdiction
which the court then had. For this reason it should have
been denied, and the judgment that a peremptory mandamus
should issue was erroneous.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with in-

structions to
DismISS THE PETITION FOR A MANDAMUS.

UNITED STATES V. AVERY.

1. The court cannot take cognizance of a division of opinion under the Judiciary Act of 1802, between the judges of the Circuit Court on a motion
to quash an indictment, even when the motion presents the question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to try the offence charged.
2. United States v. -Rosenburgh(7 Wallace, 580), recognized and followed.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina:
Avery and others were indicted under the act of May 81st,
1870,* known as the Enforcement Act, for conspiracy, with
intent to violate the first section of that act, by unlawfully
hindering, preventing, and restraining divers males, citizens
of the United States, of African descent, from exercising
the right of voting; and the second count of the indictment
after charging this offence further charged, under the 7th
section of that act, that in the act of committing the offence
aforesaid, they murdered one Jim Williams, "contrary to
the form of the statute in such case made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the State of South Carolina." The first count charged the conspiracy without the
* 16 Stat. at Large, 140.

UNITED STATES V.

AVERY.

[SLIP. Ct.

Argument for the jurisdiction.

murder. The fourth count charged murder in the same
manner as the second count.
The defendant's counsel moved to quash so much of the
second and fourth counts as charged theomurder, on the
ground that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to try an
offence against the State of South Carolina; and, thereupon
the following question arose upon which the opinions of the
judges were opposed:
"Whether the court has jurisdiction to inquiro and find whether the crime of murder has been committed, as set forth and
charged, in the latter portions of the second and fourth counts
of said indictment, in order to ascertain the measure of punishment to be affixed to the offences against the United States,
charged in the former portions of' the said second and iburth
counts."
The question was accordingly certified to this court under
the act of April 29th, 1802, which enacts that when a question shall occur before a Circuit Court upon which the opinions of the judges shall be opposed, the point may be certified to this court, and by it be finally decided.
M.r. Williams, Attorney-General,and Mr. C. I. Itill, Assistant Altorney-General, for the United States, on the case being
called for argument, suggested that as the question certified
arose on a motion to quash the indictment, the court could
not, under the Judiciary Act of 1802, take cognizance of it,
such motion being determinable by the court below as a
matter of pure discretion; and cited Uniled States v. Rosenburgh,* where it was held, according to the syllabus, that
"this court cannot take cognizance under the Judiciary Act
of 1802, of a division of opinion between the judges of the
Circuit Court upon a motion to quash an indictment."
.Messrs. Reverdy Johnson and I. Stanbery, contra:
When objection to the jurisdiction of the court to try the
offence charged in ,an indictment is raised, it must then and
* 7 Wallace, 580.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED

STATES

v. AvERY.

leply.-Dismissal of the case.

there be passed upon, because it involves the authority of
the court to proceed at all, and this principle applies as well
to a motion to quash as to any other form of objection. A
motion to quash is the proper mode of raising a question of
jurisdiction, because if the objection be well taken, all proceedings in the case are coram non judice, and the objection
should, therefore, be made at the earliest possible moment.
And when the judges are divided in opinion upon the motion, the case cannot proceed until the question is decided,
because it involves the right to proceed at all. This fact
distinguishes the present case from United States v. Rosenburgh. The question there certified was whether the indictment charged an offence. The cases of United States v. Wilson,* United States v. Chieago,t and United States v. Reid &
Clements,j all show that questions directly affecting the
merits of a case may be cognizable here, although arising
on motions discretionary in their character.
Reply: Unless the court overrules United States v. Rosenburgh, it must refuse to take cognizance of this question.
The ground for that decision was that "the denial of the
motion would not decide finally any right of the defendant."
That applies equally to a question of jurisdiction. In this
case there is no division of opinion except as to parts of the
second and fourth counts of the indictment. The court did
not doubt its jurisdiction to try the defendants for conspiracy,
and the trial might have proceeded if their motion had been
denied (as it would have been as matter of course, had the
judges been divided in opinion upon it), and the same question been again raised upon the offer of evidence to prove
the fact of murder.
The CHIEF TUSTIOE, on the following day, announced
that a majority of the court were of opinion that the case
must be ruled by United States v. Rosenburgh, and the case be
DismISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.
* 7 Peters, 150.

t 7 Howard, 190.

S$12 Id. 361.

