568

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the cases.

force, was not applicable to fraudulent importers. He
stated that he expressed no opinion as to the instructions
imputing knowledge of the guilty partner to the others.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY concurred generally; dissenting
from the opinion of the court, on all the points taken in it.

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Under the joint resolution of February 28th, 1867, increasing by 20 per cent.
the pay of employ~s in the Department of the Interior, &c., and in
the office of the Capitol and Treasury Extension and Commissioner of
Public Buildings, neither a commission nor a warra'at of appointment
is necessary to entitle an employ6 to the benefit of the provision under
consideration, provided he was actually and properly employed in the
office of the Capitol or Treasury Extension, or in the office of the Commissioner of Public Buildings, if it appears that he is one of the persons
or class of persons described in the joint resolution. Persons so employed are properly in the service if they were employed by the head
of the department, or of the bureau, or any division of the department
charged with that duty and authorized to make such contracts and fix
the compensation of the person employed, even though the particular
employment may not be designated in any appropriation act.

from the Court of Claims; the case being this:
A joint resolution of Congress of February 28th, 1867,*
provided:
APPEAL

"That there shall be allowed and paid to the following described persons [whose salaries do not exceed $3500] now employed in the civil service of the United States, at Washington,
as follows: To civil officers and temporary and all other clerks,
messengers, and watchmen, including enlisted men detailed as
such, to be computed upon the gross amount of the compensation received by them, and employ4s male and female, in the
Executive Mansion, and in any of the following-named departments, or any bureau or division thereof, to wit: State, Treasury,
* 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

0

:Dec. 1871.]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Statement of the cases.

War, Navy, Interior,Post Office, Attorney-General's, Agricultural, and including civil officers and temporary, and all other
lerks and employgs, male and female, in the offices of the Coast
Survey, Naval Observatory, Navy Yard, Arsenal, PaymasterGeneral, including the division of referred claims, CommissaryGeneral of Prisoners, Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, and Abandoned Lands, Quartermaster's, Capitol and Treasury Extension,
City Post Office, and Commissioner of Public Buildings; to the
photographer of the Treasury Department, to the superintendent of meters, and to lamplighters under the Commissioner of
Public Buildings, an additional compensation of 20 per centum
on their respective salaries as fixed by law, or, where no salary
is fixed by law, upon their pay, respectively, for one year from
and after the 80th day of Juiie, 1866."
I.

FiTzrATRiOc's .:ND SEVE

OTR CAsES.

This joint resolution being in force, several persons, named
respectively Fitzpatrick, Hall, Bohn, Lytle, Holbrook, La
Rieu, Richards, and Newman, and whose salaries were all
less than $3500, filed their petitions; each setting forth
facts, which, if. true, brought him within the act, and each
claiming the 20 per cent. additional. By the finding of the
Court of Claims it appeared that Fitzpatrick was an employ6 in the office'of the Commissioner.of Public Buildings,
as keeper of the western gate of the Capitol; that Hall was
an employ6 in the office of the Commissioner of Public
Buildings, in that part of the Capitol called the crypt; that
Bohn was an employ6 in the office of the Commissioner of
Public Buildings, as a laborer on the public grounds; that
Lytle was an employ6 in the office of the Commissioner of
Public Buildings, as watchman in the east grounds of the
Capitol; that Holbrook was an employ6 in the office of the
Commissioner of Public Buildings, as watchman at the
stables; that La Rieu was an employe in the same office, as
watchman in the Smithsonian grounds; that Richards was
an employ6 in the same office, as watchman on the Capitol
dome; and Newman was an employ6 in the same office, as
captain of the Capitol police.

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement ofthe cases.

IL

M-LLER'S CASE.

About the same time one Miller filed a petition in the
Court of Claims, alleging that he had been as clerk and employj in the office of the Capitol Extension, assigned to duty
as foreman of construction, receiving a salary of $1800; that
be was in the civil service of the United States at Washington,
and that he was thus entitled to an addition of 20 per cent.
on his salary, under the joint resolution above quoted, and
asking judgment against the United States therefor. The
United States opposed the demand.
The court found as fact:
1. That the claimant was appointed foreman of carpenters
by the Secretary of the Interior Department, March 1st, 1866,
at a salary of $1800 per annum, and was in the service of
the United States, in connection with the Capitol Extemsion, at
Washington, D. C., continuously from June 30th, 1866, to
June 30th, 1867, inclusive, at the said salary.
2. That he was paid monthly, as in the case of other salaried officers; that he received materials for the work upon
the Capitol building; made up daily reports; had charge of
workmen, and performed such duties as were assigned him
by the architect of the Capitol Extension, and was paid out
of the said fund as the architect of the Capitol Extension,
clerks, and others connected with said work, viz., the appropriation for the Capitol Extension.
No other facts than those above mentioned were found by
the court. The counsel of the United States, however, after
adverting to the fact that the findings contradicted an averment of the petitioner of a matter within his own knowledge,
they finding that he was appointed foreman of carpenters
March 1st, 1866, at a salary of $1800 per annum, and the
counsel stating-by way of reconciling the discrepancy-that
prior to March 1st, 1866, the claimant was employed in the
same capacity as thereafterwards, but at a compensation of
only $5 per day of actual employment, that is, exclusive of
Sundays, or about $1500 per annum; and that the Secretary
of the Interior, on March 1st, 1866, wrote the following letter:

Dec. 187!.]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Argument for the United States.
"9DPARTmENT OF THE INTERIOR,

" WASHINGTON, D. 0., Mtarch 2d, 1866.

"SiR: You are hereby authorized, from and after the 1st of
the present month, to pay George Miller, timekeeper, &c., on
the Capitol Extension, at the rate of $150 per month, for the
time actually employed, until further orders.
"I am, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servant,
"JAMES HAIAN,
"D.

WMf. S.

MASH,

"Secretary."

Disbursing Agent, Capitol Extension."

III. iAKnIXG7s CAsM
Near about the same time one Manning filed a petition
with a purpose similar to that with which the others filed
theirs. The court found that the claimant was employed as
watchman or guard at the jail in Washington, for one year,
at a salary of $1200 per year, paid to him monthly by the
disbursing officer of the Department of the Interior. His
pay was fixed at this rate by the Secretary of the Interior,
under acts of Congress which place the jail under the supervision of the Department of the Interior.
The Court of Claims gave a decree for the claimants in
all of the cases, and the United States appealed in all.
Mr. C. I. -Ell,Assistant Attorney- General, for the United
States, argued:
I. IN REGARD

TO FITZPATRICK .A2D TUB SEVEN OTBMR OLAfIANTS,

That none of these claimants were "employed in the civil
service at Washington," which it was indispensable that
any one claiming under the joint resolution should be. No
officer, clerk, messenger, watchman, enlisted man, or employ4 being entitled unless within that special class; a class
which not only excluded the military and naval branches,
but which, in reference to the civil branch, comprises only
those persons who fill some office or hold some appointment
established by law.
That the findings of the Court of Claims that the persons
were "e n ploy s," were not findings of fact, but findings of

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

.[SUP. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

law, and therefore not findings proper for the court to have
made as the basis of its conclusions; that being findings of
law they were re-examinable in this court; that thus re-examined it wAs plain that the word employis being found in
the phrase, "all other clerks and employ~s," was to be regarded as meaning employes whose duties were clerical;
moreover that the "employes" meant to be favored were
"employ6s" in the office of the Commissioner of Public
Buildings, &c.; that is to say, employ6s having appointments as officers in the edifice appropriated to the commissioner, &c.
II.

IN REGARD TO MILLER,

That the claimant was not in the civil service, nor even
an appointee of the Secretary of the Interior; that the letter
of March 2d, 1866, was not an appointment but a mere order
for an increase of pay; that the letter showed that the claimant was in the service of the United States, "in connection
with the Capitol Extension," and not an "eml)loy6 in the
Capitol Extension." Of course he was not an employ6 in
any other of the departments.
III. IN

REGARD TO MANNIING,

That he did not show that he was an employe in any one
of the departments, or in any bureau or division thereof, or
in any office named in the resolution; his appointment was
not authorized by statute, nor is his compensation prescribed
by an appropriation act; that neither his employment nor
his compensation being known to any act of Congress, he
was not to be regarded as an employ6 in the civil service
at Washington.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court
in all the cases, giving it as follows:
I.

IN

FITZPATRICKS AND THE SEVEN OTHER CASES.

Twenty per cent. additional pay is allowed by the joint
resolution of the twenty-eighth of February, 1867, to certain persons or classes of persons therein described, who are
employed in the civil service of the United States in this

:Dec. 1871.]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the court.

city, whose salaries, as fixed by law, do not exceed three
thousand five hundred dollars per annum, to be paid out of
any money in the treasury not otherwise appropriated.*
Objection is made in several of the pending cases arising
under that resolution that the claimant does not show himself to be an employe in the civil service of the United
States, which, it is said is the primary condition and the
one required to be shown in every case before the party can
fawfully claim the prescribed additional compensation, and
the attempt is' made by the appellants to restrict the meaning of the term civil service so as to exclude all persons from
the benefits of the provision except such as have been appointed to office or hold appointments of some kind in that
service. They contend that the words "in the civil service"
were not employed merely to contradistinguish the service
described from that of the military or naval service of the
United States, but also to show that the persons entitled to
the benefits of the enactment must be persons filling offices
or holding appointments established by law.
Beyond doubt those words were intended to contradistinguish the service described from that of the military or
naval service, but the court is unable to concur in the proposition that they were also intended to restrict the operation
of the resolution to persons in office in the civil service, or
to persons holding appointments in that service as salaried
officers.
Certain described persons and classes of persons are plainly
entitled to the benefit of the provision, whether regarded as
officers or as mere employes, and it is no valid argument
against that proposition to show that there are or may be
other employes or persons in the civil service here who are
not within that description, as the terms of the enactment
are special and do not extend to every employment in that
service, but only to the described persons and classes of
persons therein mentioned.
Civil officers whose salaries, as fixed by law, do not exceed
* 14 Stat. at Large, 569.

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

three thousand five hundred dollars per annum are clearly
within the terms of the resolution, and so are temporary
and other clerks, messengers, and watchmen, including enlisted men detailed as such, and employs, male and female,
in the executive mansion, and in the state, treasury, war,
navy, interior, and post office departments, and the department of justice, or in any bureau or division of such a department, including the agricultural bureau, and all civil
officers, whether permanent or temporary, in the offices of
the coast survey, naval observatory, navy yard, arsenal, paymaster-general, commissary:general of prisoners, bureau of
refugees, freedmen, and abandoned lands, office of quartermaster, capitol, and treasury extension, city post office, and
commissioner of public buildings, and the other officers and
employ6s described in the same resolution.
By the finding of the Court of Claims it appears that
Fitzpatrick was an employ6 in the office of the commissioner of public buildings, as keeper of the western gate of
the Capitol; that Hall was an employ6 in the office of the
commissioner of public buildings, in that part of the Capitol
called the crypt; that Bohn was an employ6 in the office of
the commissioner of public buildings, as a laborer on the
public grounds; that Lytle was an employ6 in the office of
the commissioner of public buildings, as watchman in the
east grounds of the Capitol; that Holbrook was an employ6
in the office of the commissioner of public buildings, as
watchman at the stables; that Richards was an employ6 in
the office of the commissioner of public buildings, as watchman on the Capitol dome; and that Newman was an employ6 in the office of the commissioner of public buildings,
as captain of the Capitol police. Employes in the office of
the commissioner of public buildings being within the very
words of the joint resolution, the Court of Claims in each
of these cases rendered judgment for the claimant, and the
United States appealed to this court.
Most of the defences to the several claims have already
been considered in the remarks preceding the statement of
the case, but there are also certain speical objections which

Dec. 1871.]

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the court.

deserve some consideration, as, for example, it is insisted
that the question whether the claimant was or was not an
employe in the office of the commissioner is a question of
law and not a question of fact, and that being a question of
law it may be re-examined in this court.
Whether the claimant was or was not employed by the commissioner of public buildings is certainly a question of fact,
but the question as to what relation he sustained to that
office may perhaps be a question of law, as assumed by the
United States. What they contend is that the words of
the act "in the office of" have respect to another class of
employes, that those words refer to the clerks and messenger and the like, but the court is of a different opinion, as
clerks and messenger are specially mentioned in the same
enactment, which shows that the words "employes in the
office of" were intended to embrace a class of persons other
and different from the persons having appointments as officers in the building assigned to the commissioner. Such
an interpretation would be too restricted to comport with
the general scope and object of the resolution, or with any
of the canons of construction usually applied in ascertaining the meaning of a remedial law.
Offices may be and usually are divided into two classescivil and military. Civil offices* are also usually divided
into three classes-political, judicial, and ministerial. Political offices are such as are not immediately connected with
the administration of justice, or with the execution of the
mandates of a superior, as the President or head of a department. Judicial offices are those which relate to the
administration of justice, and which must be exercised by
the persons appointed for that purpose and not by deputies.
Ministerial offices are those which give the officer nb power
to judge of the matter to be done, and which require him to
obey some superior, many of which are merely employments
requiring neither a commission nor a warrant of appointment, as temporary clerks or messengers.*
* Mallory's Case, 3 Nott & Huntington, 257; Kirby's Case, Ib. 265.

TWENTY PER CENT.

CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Neither a commission nor a warrant of appointment is
necessary to entitle an employ6 to the benefit of the provision under consideration, provided he was actually and
properly employed in the executive mansion, or in any of
the departments, or in any bureau or division thereof, or in
the office of the Capitol or Treasury Extension, or in the office
of the commissioner of public buildings, or in any other of
the offices therein mentioned, if it appears that he is one of
the persons or class of persons described in the joint resolution. Persons so employed are properly in the service if
they were employed by the head of the department or of
the bureau or any division of the department charged with
that duty and authorized to make such contracts and fix the
compensation of the person employed, even though the particular employment may not be designated in an appropriation act.
Many persons not employed as clerks or messengers of a
department, are in the public service by virtue of an employment by the head of the department or by the head of
some bureau of the department authorized by law to make
such contracts, and such persons are as much in the civil
service within the meaning of the joint resolution as the
clerks and messengers employed in the rooms of the department building.*
Tested by these rules it is clear that each of the eight
claimants whose cases are under consideration were employ~s in the office of the commissioner of public buildings,
and that the judgment of the Court of Claims in each case
was correct.
JUDGMENT IN EACH CASE AFFIRMED.

II. IN MILLER'S CASE.

Judgment for the claimant was rendered in this case by
the Court of Claims under the joint resolution of Congress
* United States v. Belew, 2 Brockenbrough, 280; Graham v. United
States, 1 Nott & Huntington, 380; Commonwealth v. Sutherland, 9 Sergeant
& Rawle, 149.

Dec. 1871.J

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the court.

giving additional compensation to certain employes of the
government in the civil service in this city. Preceding the
entry of the judgment is a finding of the facts, which is also
agreed to by the counsel of the parties, as follows: (1.) That
the claimant was appointed foreman of carpenters by the
Secretary of the- Interior, at a salary of eighteen hundred
dollars, and that he was in the service of the United States,
in connection with the Capitol Extension, continuously for
one year at that salary. (2.) That he was paid monthly, as
in the case of other salaried officers; that he received materials for the work upon the Capitol building, made up
daily reports, had the charge of workmen, and performed
such duties as were assigned him by the architect of the
Capitol Extension, and that he was paid out of the same appropriation as the architect, clerks, and others connected
with that work.
Several defences were set up by the appellants, as follows:
(1.) That he is not an appointee of the Secretary of the Interior, and that he was not an employe in the civil service.
(2.) That he does not show himself to have been an -employe in the office of the Capitol Extension. (8.) That lie
was not an employe in any of the departments specified in
the joint resolution.
Support to first proposition is supposed to be derived from
the fact alleged in argument, which is not found by the
court, that the claimant was employed in the first place at a
compensation of five dollars per day, exclusive of Sundays,
and from the copy of a letter not introduced in evidence,
addressed by the Secretary of the Interior to the disbursing
agent of the Capitol Extension, in which he gives authority
to that agent to pay the claimant from that date as timekeeper, &c., on the Capitol Extension, at the rate of one hundred and fifty dollars per month for the time he actually
worked until further orders.
Two remarks will afford a sufficient reply to those suggestions: (1.) That such evidence cannot be received in this
court to contradict the finding of the Court of Claims. (2.)
Suppose it could, it would constitute no defence to the claim,
VOL. XiL.

87

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as it only shows a mistake in the appellation given by the
government to the employment. Enough appears in the
letter to show that he was employed by authority of the
Secretary of the Interior, and that his compensation was
fixed as alleged, by the head of that department. Grant
that the letter does not amount to a warrant of appointment,
still if it be admitted as evidence it clearly shows that he
was employed by the authority of the secretary, which, instead of contradicting, actually fortifies the finding of the
court.
Sufficient has already been remarked in disposing of the
first defence set up by the appellants, to show that the second
cannot be sustained, as the claimant does show that he was
employed in the public service on the Capitol Extension.
Employed as he was by the authority of the Secretary of
the Interior, it is clear that he was an employe in the civil
service in that department, as neither a commission nor a
warrant of appointment is required to evidence such an employment.
Argument to show that the work designated by the words
"Capitol Extension" was under the supervision of the Secretary of the Interior is unnecessary, as the act of Congress of
the sixteenth of April, 1862, provides that the supervision
of the Capitol Extension and the erection of the new dome
be and the same is hereby transferred from the War Department to the Department of the Interior.
INone of the errors assigned can be sustained, and they are
accordingly overruled.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

III INTANNING'S CASE.

Persons to act as watchmen or guards at the jails in this
District are usually selected by the warden of the jail, subject to the approval of the head of the department, but
their number and the amount of their compensation are
fixed by the Secretary of the Interior, as they are paid out
of the judiciary fund, over which he exercises control.
By the act of the twenty-seventh of February, 1801, the

Dec. 1871.]

TWENTY PEP CENT. CASES.
Opinion of the court.

custody of the jails was intrusted to the marshal of the District, and he was made accountable for the safe keeping of
the prisoners.*
Congress, however, on the twenty-ninth of February, 1864,
created the office of warden of the jail, and enacted that he
should have all the power and should discharge all the duties
previously exercised and discharged over the jail and the
prisoners by the marshal.t
Supervisory power over the accounts of marshals is given
by the act of Congress upon the subject to the Secretary of
the Interior, and the express provision is that the warden
shall annually, in the month of November, make a detailed
report to the Secretary of the Interior.1
Judgment was rendered for the claimant, and the court
below made the following finding of facts: (1.) That the
claimant was employed as watchman or guard at the jail in
this city for one year, at a salary of twelve hundred dollars
per year, paid to him monthly by the disbursing officer of
the Department of the Interior, and it is conceded by the
appellants that the pay of such employ6s was fixed at that
rate by the secretary of that department. (2.) That he made
application to the first comptroller of the treasury for the
additional compensation, which is the subject of controversy, and that his application was refused.
1. Objection is made in this case, as in those previously
decided, that the claimant does not show that he was an employ6 in any one of the departments, or in any bureau or
division thereof, or in any office named in the joint resolution. His appointment, it is said, is not authorized by
statute, nor is his compensation prescribed by any appropriation act; and the argument is, that inasmuch as neither his
employment nor his compensation is directly known to any
act of Congress, he cannot be regarded as an employe in
the civil service of the United States; but the court is entirely of a different opinion, as the office of warden is an
*2 Star. at Large, 1106.

t 13 Id. 12.

138Id. 12; 9 Id. 895.

TWENTY PER CENT. CASES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

office created by law, and the appointee of the office is required to report to the Secretary of the Interior.
Guards at the jail are selected by the warden, but their
compensation is fixed by the Secretary of the Interior, and
they are paid by him, and it makes no difference whether
the pay is charged to the appropriation for the department
or to the judiciary fund, as the fact remains that the whole
subject is under the supervision of the head of that department; whether their pay is charged to the one fund or to the
other, the charge for their services must be approved by the
warden, and must be included in his report to the Secretary
of the Interior, where the same is subject to a further revision. Evidently they are employes in a bureau or division
of the Interior Department, as their compensation is fixed
by the head of that department, and the officer by whom
they are employed is required annually to make a detailed
report to that department of all his official acts.
Persons employed in a bureau or division of a department
are as much employ6s in the department, within the meaning of the joint resolution, as the messengers and others
rendering service under the immediate supervision of the
secretary, or those specially named in the provision as entitled to its benefits. Unquestionably guards of the jail are
employ6s of the warden, and the office of warden of the
jail is a bureau or division of the Department of the Interior.
Viewed in that light, as the case must be, it is clear that
the claim is well founded, and we are all of the opinion that
the judgment should be
AFFiRMED.

