DOOLEY V.

SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

ruled the motion. To this the assurers excepted, and in
their bill of exceptions have set out all the evidence given
in the case. The only point to which our attention has been
called by their counsel in this court is, that, according to the
evidence thus set out, the plaintiff was clearly not entitled
to recover.
The granting or overruling of a motion for a new trial in
the courts of the United States rests wholly in the discretion
of the court to which the motion is addressed. This is so
well settled that it is unnecessary to remark further upon
the subject.*
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

DOOLEY V. SMITH.
1. A plea which states that the sum due on a promissory note is a certain
amount, on a certain day, and avers a tender on that day of the sum
due in legal tender notes of the United States, is a good plea of tender.
2 In a suit on such note an order of court made by consent that the money
might be withdrawn from court, without prejudice to the validity of the
tender, cannot be supposed to be the reason why the court held the plea
bad on demurrer.
3. As the record in this case showed no other reason why the Court of Appeals of Kentucky sustained a demurrer to the plea than that it was
made in legal tender notes of the United States, it sufficiently appeared
that the question of the validity of these notes as a tender was made and
decided in the negative.
4. This court, therefore, has jurisdiction to review the judgment; and
though the note sued on was made before the passage of the legal tender
statutes by Congress, held that the tender was a valid tender, and that
the judgment of the court below must be reversed.

by Mr. W. . Wadsworth, for the defendant in eiror
(Mr. G. j)avis, opposing), to dismiss a writ of error to the
Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky, taken on the
assumption that the case came within that provision of the
MOTION

* Henderson v. Moore, 5 Cranch, 11; Barr v. Gratz's Heirs, 4 Wheaton,
220; Doswell v. De La Lanza, 20 Howard, 29; Schuchardt v. Allens, 1 Wallace, 371.

Dec. 1871.]

D)OOLEY V. SM[ITI.
Opinion of the court.

25th section of the Judiciary Act which, as is known, gives
this court a right to review the decisions of the highest State
court whenever there is drawn in question there the validity
of a statute of the United States and the decision is against
its validity.
The further statement of the case, as also an indication of
the points raised by counsel, is made by
Mr. Justice MILLER, who delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is argued by counsel for defendant in error that no
question cognizable by this court on a writ of error to a
State court is presented by the record, while the counsel for
plaintiff insists that the validity of the acts of Congress,
making certain notes of the United States a legal tender in
payment of debts, was the only question raised and decided
in the court below.
We are satisfied, from a careful examination of the record,
that this latter question was decided against the validity of
those statutes, and that such a decision was essential to the
judgment rendered by the court.
Dooley being indebted to Smith in a sum of nearly
$10,000, evidenced by a note, and made a lien on land by
mortgage, filed his petition in the proper State court of Kentucky, alleging that on the 6th day of January, A.D. 1868,"
the amount due on the note was $9848.92, and that on that
day he tendered to Smith that sum in United- States legal
tender treasury notes, commonly called greenbacks, which
Smith refused to receive, and to surrender the note, though
he had demanded it. He now brings said legal tender notes
into court, and again tenders them, and prays for a delivery
of his note and for such other relief as may be proper. He
also alleges a prior tender in 1864, but this may be dismissed
from further consideration, as he offers the amount due in
1868, without reference to the first tender.
To this petition Smith filed a general demurrer.
While this suit was pending the defendant, Smith, brought
an action in the same court to recover the amount due on

DOO0LEY V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the note, and to this action Dooley answered, referring to
his petition in the former case, and making his allegation
therein, of a tender, his answer in this case, and praying
that the two be consolidated, which was ordered by the
court. Smith demurred generally to Dooley's answer.
On these pleadings the case was submitted to the court,
which ordered both demurrers to be sustained and rendered
a judgment for Smith for the amount due, with interest
until paid, without regard to the tender. This judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, to which
the present writ of error is directed.
Some attempt is made in argument to show that the court
might have rested its judgment on the insufficiency of the
amount tendered without regard to the character of the currency offered; but as the petition of plaintiff, Dooley, which
is adopted as his answer in the suit of Smith, expressly avers
that by reason of payments already made, the sum due on
the day of the tender was the precise sum tendered, this fact
must be taken as confessed by the demurrer of Smith. As
regards the sufficiency of the tender of 1864, it is immaterial,
as it was not relied on by the plea.
So, also, the argument that the tender paid into court
having been withdrawn before judgment, that fact justified
the judgment, is answered by the record, which shows that
it was withdrawn by a consent order of the court, which
provided that the legal effect of the tender should be the
same as it would be if the money remained in court.
If the tender was good its effect was to stop the running
of interest, and the judgment of the court gave interest ex
pressly, as though no tender had been made.
In short, it is not possible to examine the record and discover any ground on which the plea of tender by Dooley
was held bad on demurrer but the fact that it was made in
legal tender notes of the United States.
This court, therefore, has jurisdiction.
The recent decision here, overruling lepburn v. Griswold,*
* Legal Tender Cases, 12 Wallace, 457.

Dec. 1871.]

1DOOLEY V. SMITH.

Opinion of the Chief Justice, and of Field and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

and holding these notes to be a valid tender in payment of
contracts made before the enactment of the legal tender
statutes, as well as those made since, decides the case before
us on the merits, and dispenses with further argument.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the case remanded, with direc-

tious to that court for further proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
The Chief Justice, Mr. Justice Clifford, and myself, dissent from the judgment of the majority of the court just
rendered. The question presented is whether a contract for
the payment of dollars made previous to February 25th,
1862, can be satisfied, against the will of the holder, by a
tender of United States notes equal in nominal amount to
the sum due on the contract. This question depends, of
course, for its solution upon the validity and constitutionality
of that provision of the act of 1862, which makes these notes
a legal tender in payment of debts. We have recently had
occasion to express on this subject our views at large, and
to them we adhere. We have considered with great deliberation the views of the majority, who differ from us, and
we are unable to.yield our assent to them. -With all proper
deference and respect for our brethren, we are constrained
to say that, in our judgment, the doctrines advanced in their
opinions on this subject are not only in conflict with the
teachings of all the statesmen and jurists of the country up
to a recent period, and at variance with the uniform practice
of the government for nearly three-quarters of a century, but
that they tend directly to break down the barriers which
separate a government of limited powers from a government
resting in the unrestrained will of Congress.
We are therefore compelled by every consideration of
duty which may be supposed to govern judicial officers on
this bench, to express on all proper occasions our dissent
from what we regard as a wide departure from the limitations of the Constitution. Those limitations must be pre-

608

PAIGE V. BANKS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

served, or our government will inevitably drift from the
system established by our fathers into a vast centralized and
consolidated government.

PAIGE v. BANKS.
1. Where in consideration of an agreement by publishers to pay him a certain sum of money, and the performance of specified duties in connection with the publication, a reporter of judicial decisions agreed in 1828
"to furnish in manuscript the reports of his court for publication," with
an additional clause that the "publishers shall have the copyright of
said reports, to them and their assigns forever," held, on bill filed by
the reporter's executrix for injunction, and account of profits after the
expiration of twenty-eight years from the entry of copyright (A.D.
1830), that the publishers had a full right of property in the manuscript;
and accordingly that they could publish not only for the twenty-eight
years dring which the act of May 31st, 1790 (the only copyright act in
force when the agreement was made), gave an author and his assigns
the exclusive right to print, reprint, publish, and vend, but also during
the fourteen years granted by an act of 3d February, 1831, subsequently
passed, by which the exclusive right was continued to the author if alive,
or if dead to his widow, child, or children; the reporter not having died
till 1868.
2. Held, further, that this view was confirmed by the fact that a notice had
been given in 1858, by the reporter to his publishers, that he himself
claimed the right to publish on the expiration of the first twenty-eight
years, and forbid them to publish further, and that they in reply denied
his right and asserted their own, and that though the reporter lived, as
already said, till 1868, ten years after this correspondence, no further
notice was taken of this subject, and no attempt by the reporter, by act
or protest, to interfere -with the exercise of the right of the publishers
to publish and sell.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York; the ease being thus:

Congress by a copyright law of 31st May, 1790,* enacted
that the author and authors of any book or books, " and his
or their executors, administrators, or assigns," should have
* 1 Stat. at Large, 124.

