Dec. 1871.]

NoRwic

TRANSPORTATION

Co. v. FLINT.

3

Statement of the case.

counsel be noticed upon error.* In this case, then, not only
was the statement so signed, but it does not appear to have
been made and filed until after the judgment.
There is, therefore, no error in the record, or none of
which we can take notice. The judgment of the Circuit
Court for the District of Louisiana must be
AFFIRMED.

NORWIcH

TRANSPORTATION COMPANY V. FLINT.

In a suit by a passenger against a steamboat company for injuries done to
him on the deck of a steamboat by the discharge of a gun by some
disorderly soldiers, whom the transportation company had taken on
board and who had overpowered their sentinels, evidence was held to
have been properly received as part of the res gesic that during the disturbance a person, who appeared to be a sergeant, came into the cabin
to a person who appeared to be his superior officer, and told him, first
in a less excited manner, that there was a disturbance on deck which he
could not suppress, and in which he feared that some one would be
hurt; and on being told to ugo back and mind his orders" retired,
and came again, after some time, hurriedly, and very soon after the
discharge of a gun had been heard, exclaiming to the officer, "For God
sake, come up; a man has been shot I" The statements of the sergeant
being not offered for the purpose of proving the facts stated by him,
but the whole incident (including those statements) being adduced for
the purpose of showing the manner in which the officers attended to
their duty whilst the disturbance was going on; the fact that notice of
its progress was communicated, the time that it continued, and the degree of alarm it was calculated to excite in such a person as the sergeant appeared to be.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut.
Flint brought an action on the case in the court below
against the Norwich and New York Transportation Company, to recover damages for an injury received by him in
June, 1864, while a passenger on their steamboat, running
from New London to New York. The plaintiff, with other
* Generes v. Bonnemer, 7 Wallace, 564; Avendano v. Gay, 8 Id. 376;
Kearney v.Case, 12 Id. 276.

4

NORWICH TRANSPORTATION

Co. v.

FLINT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

passengers from Boston, went on board of the boat at New
London about eleven o'clock in the evening. A detachment
of United States soldiers-sixty, perhaps, in number-were
on board, and were behaving in a disorderly and riotous
manner, having overpowered their sentinels and rushed to
the after-deck set apart for passengers. A portion of the
detachment, which had been assigned as a guard over the
rest, were armed, and in the melee a musket was thrown
upon the deck and discharged, and the ball entered the
plaintiff's foot, injuring him severely. His action was based
on a charge of negligence on the part of the defendants in
not providing against and quelling the disturbance. At the
trial of the cause, after considerable evidence had been adduced tending to show the transactions which occurred on
the boat at the time of the injury, the plaintiff offered in
evidence the testimony of certain passengers, who testified
that after they had gone down to the dining saloon, and
were at the table, a man in military uniform, whom they
supposed from the stripes on his arm to be a sergeant, came
into the saloon and saluted an officer in uniform, whom they
supposed to be a lieutenant, and who was sitting at the table
with another officer, whom, from his unirorm, they supposed
to belong to the navy, and said to him, " There is a row on
deck, and I cannot suppress it;" that the officer addressed
replied, " Mind your orders;" that the sergeant said, "I am
afraid some one will be hurt;" that the officer replied, "You
have your orders-mind your orders;" that the sergeant
then retired, and, after a few minutes, came down again into
the saloon h urriedly, very soon after the report of a gun had
been heard, aud said to the officer, "For God's sake, come
up; a man has been shot !" This testimony was offered for
the purpose of proving the condition of affairs on the deck,
the extent and character of the disturbance, the condition
and situation of the officers and soldiers on board, and the
manner in which they discharged their duty prior to and at
the time when the plaintiff received his injury, the time the
disturbance continued, and the failure of the officers of the
soldiers to repress the disorder, it being admitted that no

Dec. 1871.]

NORWIO

TRANBPORTATION

Co. v.

FLINT.

5

Argument-against the admission.

other persons on board were directly charged with the care
of preserving order among them.
The defendant objected to the testimony thus offered, but
the court received it. As appeared from its opinion, which
had been printed for the use of this court, the court below
regarded the evidence admissible: "as indicating, first, the
relation of the sergeant to his officer-not as a mere declaration, but as an act of subordination; second, as showing the
alarm and fright of the sergeant and a state of mind indicating need of assistance; and, finally, because the whole
transaction was a part of the res geste, in such sense that the
jury might properly be permitted to hear it." The connection of the whole testimony with the circumstances of the
case, gave it, in the opinion of that court, "credit and significance, not as the isolated act or statement of the sergeant,
but as a narrative of occurrences in their connection with
the principal events, receiving significance and inviting belief."
The jury having found $10,000 for the plaintiff, and judgment being given accordingly, the transportation company
brought the case here; the admission of the evidence being
the only error relied on.
l'. J. Halsey,for the plainiff in error:
The evidence was inadmissible for the purpose of proving
the state of affairs on deck prior to and at the time the plaintiff received his injury; because,
1. As evidence of the truth of the words spoken, it was
mere hearsay.
2. It was not spoken in the presence and hearing of any
officer, of the boat. It was res inter alios acta.
3. It was not addressed to any agent or officer of the defendants.
4. It was no part of the res gestce.
5. The declarations were not admissible as part of the
transaction. What is the transaction but a description of
the person who said the words, and the person to whom
they were addressed? The transaction in and of itself was

YEAGER

v.

FARWELL.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

nothing. Declarations of this sort having been allowed to
go to the jury, and counsel to comment upon them as evidence of the condition of affairs on deck, the jury regarded
it in the same way that it would have done the sworn evidence of an eye-witness; which certainly it was not.
Mr. B. I. Dana, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is hardly necessary for us to enter into a lengthy discussion on the admissibility of the testimony in question.
The opinion of the Circuit Court, which has been laid before us, is sufficiently full on the subject, and need not be
repeated. We have no hesitation in regarding the incident
testified to as part of the res ges!x, and as entirely competent
for the purposes for which it was offered. The statements
of the sergeant were not offered in evidence for the purpose
of proving the facts stated by him, but the whole incident
(including those statements) was adduced in evidence foir
the purpose of showing the manner in which the officers
attended to their duty whilst the disturbance was going on,
the fact that notice of its progress was communicated, the
time that it continued, and the degree of alarm it was calculated to excite in such a person as the sergeant appeared to
be. These were substantially the purposes for which the
evidence was professedly offered, and for these purposes, as
part of the res gesice, it was clearly competent.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

YEAGER V.

FARWELL.

1. A., residing in St. Louis, and treating through B., of the same place, for

a loan of money from 0., in Boston, got a promise from C. of the money
wanted, A.'s own note and a mortgage by him on real estate near St.

Louis being contemplated and agreed on as the security to be given.
0. relied wholly on B. to look after the sufficiency of the security (which
he desired "first and foremost" should be ample) and after the prepara-

tion of the note and mortgage, all of which B. assumed to do.

Having

