Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
Statement of the case.

understood. The first of these cases went upon the ground
that the chancery jurisdiction conferred upon the courts of
the Territories by the organic act was beyond the reach of
Territorial legislation; and the second, in which the Territorial Court of Appeals was called a court of the United
States, was only intended to distinguish it from a State
court.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion that the jury in this
case was not selected and summoned in conformity with
law, and that the challenge to the array should have been
allowed. This opinion makes it unnecessary to consider
the other questions in the case.

JUDGMENT RIEVERSED.

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
The Departmental Assemblies had no power under the laws of Mexico regulating the disposition of the public domain, to give it away, either with
or without the assent of the governor, except for the purposes of settlement or cultivation. The right to dispose of it for other purposes
rested with the supreme government alone.
Held, accordingly, that a grant by a Departmental Assembly of a tract
of land embracing an area of over two millions of acres, the grantees
binding themselves to construct two wells for the relief and aid of travellers, and to establish two factories for the use of the State, and to protect them from hostile invasion, was void, whether such grant were
approved by the governor or not.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the Territory of New
Mexico; the case being thus:
On the 28th of December, 1845, one Vigil and certain other
persons addressed a petition to the Most Excellent Departmental Assembly, through Armijo, governor of New Mexico,
asking for a grant of a tract of land called, the Jornadadel
.Uverto, binding themselves, if the grant were made, to construct two wells for the relief and aid of travellers, and
establish two factories for the *useof the State, and to protect them from hostile invasion. The governov transmitted
VOL. XlII.

29,

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

the petition to the Assembly, but declined to recommend
that favorable action should be taken upon it, on account of
the novel character of the application. Notwithstanding the
refusal of the governor to recommend favorable action, the
Assembly, on the 10th of January, 1846, granted the tract
to the petitioners for the purpose of constructing wells and
cultivating the lands, so far as their means would permit,
without being entitled to an exclusive right to the pasture.
The tract disposed of in this way, embraced an area of ocer
two millions of acres. Soon after this, as is known, war broke
out between the United States and Mexico; and the whole
region where the land lay passed by conquest and treaty to
the government of our own country. Hereupon Vigil and
the other parties, asserting title under the grant, presented
their claim to the surveyor-general of New Mexico for confirmation. He, however, rejected it. The claimants then
applied to Congress for relief, and a law was passed for their
benefit, which authorized them to institute a suit in the Supreme Court of the Territory of New Mexico against the
United States; the law declaring further that the same principles should be applied to the determination of the controversy, which Congress had prescribed for the decision of
similar land claims in California, derived under the authority of the Mexican government. Suit was accordingly
brought in the court mentioned-the court below-and that
court confirmed the claim. From the decree of confirmation the case was now here on appeal by the United States.
The case was ably and elaborately argued, and a wide
range taken in the discussion of questions presented by the
record, but collateral to the history already given, which it
is not necessary to notice in view of the grounds hereinafter
set forth, on which the decision of this court is rested.
Mr. J. A. Wills and Mr. B. I. Bristow, Solicitor-General,
for the United States; Mr. J. S. Watts and T. .Ewing, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been repeatedly decided by this court, that the only

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.
Opinion of the court.

laws in force in the Territories of Mexico for the disposition
of the public lands, with the exception of those relating to
missions and towns, are the act of the Mexican Congress of
1824, and the regulations of 1828. The avowed purpose of
the Congress in enacting this law, and of the supreme government in carrying it into effect, was to colonize the public
domain; to preserve it for settlement or cultivation. The
favor of the legislature has, doubtless, been often abused
by unworthy ministers in charge of the remote Territories,
but this consideration in no wise detracts from the wisdom
of the policy on this subject. This policy recognized the
obligation resting on the government to hold the public
lands as a public trust, to be administered for the benefit of
those who would settle upon them or cultivate them. They
could not be sold for money, nor granted away in consideration of past public services, nor on condition of making
public improvements, of use to the travelling community, or
of general benefit to the state. The power to cede them
depended entirely on the uses to which they were to be put,
and these, as we have seen, were cultivation or settlement.
The legal right to dispose of them for other objects, was
withdrawn from the local authorities, and rested alone with
the supreme government.
If the policy of the law were wise, so were the regulations established for the purpose of carrying out its provisions. These regulations conferred on the governors of the
Territories, "the political chigfs," as they are called, the
authority to grant vacant lands, and did not delegate it to
the Departmental Assembly. It is true the grant was not
complete until the approval of the Assembly, and in this
sense the Assembly and governor acted concurrently, but the
initiative must be taken by the governor. ie was required
to act in the first instance-to decide whether the petitioner
was a fit person to receive the grant, and whether the land
itself could be granted without prejudice to the public or
individuals. In case the information was satisfactory on
these points, he was authorized to make the grant, and at
the proper time to lay it before the Assembly, who were

UNITED STATES V. VIGIL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

required to give or withhold their consent. They were in
this respect an advisory body to the governor, and sustained the same relation to him, that the Senate of the
United States does to the President in the matter of appointments and treaties. The Mexican government chose
to intrust to an officer appointed by it, the execution of its
policy on the subject of the public domain, rather than to
an elective assembly, over whose conduct it could not in the
nature of things exercise the same supervision and control.
It would seem, owing to the remoteness of the Territories
from the seat of the General government, and the sparseness of the population, that the wisdom of the selection
could not be disputed, but be this as it may, it was the undoubted right of the Mexican government to decide the
question for itself, and this court cannot be required to go
further than to give effect to that decision.
These views dispose of this case, for the grant in controversy was the sole act of the Assembly, and has not even the
element of the governor's recommendation in its favor.
But if it were otherwise, and the cession were the act of
the governor, it would still be invalid, because it would violate the fundamental rule on which the right of donation
was placed by the law. The essential element of colonization is wanting, and, besides, the number of acres granted
was enormously in excess of the maximum quantity grantable under the law. The decrees of the courts of Spain are
invoked as an authority for this grant, but it is sufficient to
say, that they were invoked for a similar purpose in Vallejo's
case,* and were decided to be inapplicable to the state of
things existing in Mexico after the revolution of 1820. And
the organic bases of the Mexican republic of June 13th,
1843, are equally ineffectual to support this grant. If it be
conceded the powers of the Departmental Assembly were
enlarged by these decrees, so far as the private property belonging to the department, as a municipal organization, is
* 1 Black, 541.

Dec. 1871.]

TUCKER V. SPALDING.
Statement of the case.

concerned, yet they effected no change in the mode of disposing of the public lands, nor was the colonization policy
of 1824, at all altered by them, for they expressly declare
that "in alienations of lands, the existing laws will be observed and what the colonization laws determine."
In any aspect of this case, the claim for this large tract of
land has no foundation to rest upon. The Departmental
Assembly, aided in a certain sense by the governor, usurped
the prerogative of the supreme government, and no ingenuity of reasoning can sanction a proceeding, which was not
only without authority of law, but contrary to the forms
prescribed by it.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause remanded to the court
below, with directions to enter a decree
DIsmissING THE PETITION.

TUCKER v. SPALDING.
1. In an action at law, where a patent of prior date is offered in evidence as
covering the invention described in the plaintifPs patent, on a charge
of infringement, the question of the identity of the two instruments or
machines, must be left to the jury, if there is so much resemblance as
raises the questidn at all..
2. It is no ground for rejecting the prior patent that it does not profess to
do the same things that the second patent does.
3. If what it performs is essentially the same, and its structure and action
suggest to the mind of an ordinarily skilful mechanic its adaptation
to the same use as the second patent, by the same means, this adaptation
is not a new invention, and is not patentable.

to the Circuit Court for the District of California.
Spalding brought an action at law against Tucker, to recovet damages for the infringement of a patent for the use
of movable teeth in saws and saw-plates.
The plaintiff's patent claimed the forming of recesses or
sockets in saws or saw-plates for detachable or removable
ERROR

