158

SEMMEs v. HARTFORD INSURANCE Co.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

or indirectly, in the late rebellion, relieves claimants of captured and abandoned property from proof of adhesion to
the United States during the late civil war. It was unnecessary, therefore, to prove such adhesion or personal pardon
for taking part in the rebellion against the -hi-ited States.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition is
REVERSED.

SEMhIES V. HARTFORD INSURANCE COMPANY.
1. A condition in a contract of insurance that no suit or action shall be sustainable unless commenced within the time of twvelve months next afterthe loss shall occur, and in case such action shall be commenced after th(
expiration of twelve months next after such loss, that the lapse of time
shall be taken and deemed as conclusive evidence against the validity
of the claim, does not operate in case of a war between the countries of
the contracting parties, as does a statute of limitations in like case.
And under such a contract the term of twelve months, which it allowed
the plaintiff for bringing his suit, does not, as it does in the case of a
statute of limitation, open and expand itself so as to receive within it
the term of legal disability created by the war and then close together
at each end of that period so as to complete itself, as tnough the war
had never occurred.
2. However, in the case of such a contract followed by a war, the disability to sue imposed on a plaintiff by the war relieves him from the
consequences of failing to bring suit within twelve months after the
loss.

IN error to the Circuit Court for the District of Connecticut.
Semmes sued the City Fire Insurance Company, of Hartford, in the court below, on the 31st of October, 1866, upon
a policy of insurance, for a loss which occurred on the 5th
day of January, 1860. The policy as declared on showed as
a condition of the contract, that payment of losses should be
made in sixty days after the loss should have been ascertained and proved.
The company pleaded that by the policy itself it was expressly provided that no suit for the recovery of any claim

Dec. 1871.]

SEMMES V.

[ARTFORD INSURANCE 00.

159

Statement of the case.

upon the same should be sustainable in any court unless
such suit should be commenced within the term of twelve
months next after any loss or damage should occur; and
that in case any such suit should be commenced after the
expiration of twelve months next after such loss or damage
should have occurred, the lapse of time should be taken
and deemed as conclusive evidence against the validity of
the claim thereby so attempted to be enforced. And that
the plaintiff did not commence this action against the defendants within the said period of twelve mouths next after
the loss occurred.
To this plea there were replications setting up, among
other things, that the late civil war prevented the bringing
of the suit within the twelve mouths provided in the condition, the plaintiff being a resident and citizen of the State
of Mississippi and the defendant of Connecticut during all
that time.
The plea was held by the court below to present a good
bar to the action, notwithstanding the effect of the war on
the rights of the parties.
That court, in arriving at this conclusion, held, first, that
the condition in the contract, limiting the time within which
suit could be brought, was, like the statute of limitation, susceptible of such enlargement, in point of time, as was necessary to accommodate itself to the precise number of days
during which the plaintiff was prevented from bringing suit
by the existence of the war. And ascertaining this by a
reference to certain public acts of the political departments
of the government, to which it referred, found that there
was, between the time at which it fixed the commencement
of the war and the date of the plaintiff's loss, a certain number of days, which, added to the time between the close of
the war and the commencement of the action, amounted to
more than the twelve months allowed by the condition of
the contract.
Judgment being given accordingly in favor of the company the plaintiff brought the case here.
The point chiefly discussed here was when the war began

160

SESAMES V. HARTFORD INSURANCE CO.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and when it ceased; 1ir. TV. flamersley, for the plaintiff in
error, contending that the court below had not fixed right
dates, but had fixed the commencement of the war too late
and its close too early, and lie himself fixing them in such a
manner as that even conceding the principle asserted by the
court to be a true one, and applicable to a contract as well as
to a statute of limitation, the suit was still brought within
the twelve months.
The counsel, however, denied that the principle did apply
to a contract, but contended that the whole condition had
been rendered impossible and so abrogated by the war, and
that the plaintiff could sue at any time within the general
statutory term, as he now confessedly did.
Mr. R. D. -IMbbard, contra.
Mfr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not necessary, in the view which we take of the matter, to inquire whether the Circuit Court was correct in the
principle by which it fixed the date, either of the commencement or cessation of the disability to sue growing out of the
events of the war. For we are of opinion that the period
of twelve months which the contract allowed the plaintiff
for bringing his suit does not open and expand itself so as
to receive within it three or four years of legal disability
created by the war and then close together at each end of
that period so as to complete itself, as though the war had
never occurred.
It is true that, in regard to the limitation imposed by
statute, this court has held that the time may be so computed, but there the law imposes the limitation and the law
imposes the disability. It is nothing, therefore, but a necessary legal logic that the one period should be taken from
the other. If the law did not, by a necessary implication,
take this time out of that prescribed by the statute, one of
two things would happen: either the plaintiff would lose his
right of suit by a judicial construction of law which deprived
him of the right to sue yet permitted the statute to run until

Dec. 1871.]

SEMMES v. HARTFORD INSURANCE

CO.

161

Opinion of the court.

it became a complete bar, or else, holding the statute under
the circumstances to be no bar, the defendant would be left,
after the war was over, without the protection of any limitation whatever. It was therefore necessary to adopt the time
provided by the statute as limiting the right to sue, and deduct from that time the period of disability.
Such is not the case as regards this contract. The defendant has made its own special and hard provision on that
subject. It is not said, as in a statute, that a plaintiff shall
have twelve months from the time his cause of action accrued
to commence suit, but twelve months from the time of loss;
yet by another condition the loss is not payable until sixty
days after it shall have been ascertained and proved. The
condition is that no suit or action shall be sustainable unless
commenced within the time of twelve months next after the loss
shall occur, and in case such action shall be commenced after
the expiration of twelve months next after such loss, the lapse
of time shall be taken and deemed as conclusive evidence
against the validity of the claim. Now, this contract relates
to the twelve months next succeeding the occurrence of the
loss, and the court has no right, as in the case of a statute,
to construe it into a number of days equal to twelve months,
to be made up of the days in a period of five years in which
the plaintiff could lawfully have commenced his suit. So
also if the plaintiff shows any reason which in law rebuts
the presumption, which, on the failure to sue within twelve
months, is, by the contract, made conclusive against the
validity of the claim, that presumption is not revived again
by the contract. It would seem that when once rebutted
fully nothing but a presumption of law or presumptio-a of
fact could again revive it. There is nothing in the contract
which .does it, and we know of no such presumptions of law.
Nor does the same evil consequence follow from removing
absolutely the bar of the contract that would from removing
absolutely the bar of the statute, for when the bar of the
contract is removed there still remains the bar of the statute,
and though the plaintiff may show by his disability to sue a
sufficient answer to the twelve months provided by the conVOL. XIII.

11

REICHE v.

SMYTHE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

tract, he must still bring his suit within the reasonable time
fixed by the legislative authority, that is, by the statute of
limitations.
We have no doubt that the disability to sue imposed on
the plaintiff by the war relieves him from the consequences
of failing to bring suit within twelve months after the loss,
because it rendered a compliance with that condition impossible and removes the presumption which that contract
says shall be conclusive against the validity of the plaintiff's
claim. That part of the contract, therefore, presents no bar
to the plaintiff's right to recover.
As the Circuit Court founded its judgment on the proposition that it did, that judgment must be
R EVERSED AND THE CASE REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

IREICHE V. SMYTHE, COLLECTOR.
Where an act of 1861 exempted from duty "animals of all kinds; birds,
singing and other, and land and water fowls," and a later act levied a
duty of 20 per cent. "on all horses, mules, cattle, sheep, hogs, and other
live animals," held that birds were not included in the terms " other
live animals." The second statute must be read by the light of the
first.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The 23d section of the act of March 2d, 1861, chap. 68,*
provides, that
"The importation of the articles hereinafter mentioned and
embraced in this section shall be exempt from duty:
" ' Animals, living, of all kinds; birds, singing and other, and land and
water fowls.' "

This provision being in force, an act of May 16th, 1866,t
was passed, which provided" That on and after the passage of this act there shall be
* 12 Star. at :Large, 198.

• -t 14 Ib. 48.

