WILLIAMS V.

]KIRTLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

brought, and which it still holds. Having exchanged the
bonds for the stock, can it retain the proceeds of the exchange, and assert against a purchaser of the bonds for
value that though the legislature empowered it to make
them, and put them upon the market, upon certain conditions, they were issued is disregard of the conditions?
We think they cannot, and, therefore, that the third plea
cannot be sustained.
But for the reasons given above the case must be sent
back for another trial; when, doubtless, the pleadings will
be changed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause

REMITTED FOP. FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, with MILLER and FIELD, JJ.,
concurred in a judgment of reversal, but said that they
did not assent to all the views expressed in the preceding
opinion.

WILLIAMS V. ]KIRTLAND.
1. A tax deed executed by a county auditor under a statute of Minnesota of
1866, declaring that where lands sold for taxes were not redeemed within
the time allowed by law, such deed should be primd facie evidence of a
good and valid title in the grantee, his heirs, and assigns, did not dispense -with the performance of all the requirements prescribed by law
for the sale -of the land. It only shifted the burden of proof of such
performance from the party claiming under the deed to the party attacking it.
2. The construction of a State law upon a question affecting the titles to real
property in the State by its highest court, is binding upon the Federal
courts.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Minnesota.
This was an action of ejectment for the possession of certain real property, situated in the city of St. Paul, in the
State of Minnesota. The declaration was in the form usual
ERROR

Dec. 1871.]

WILLIAMS V. KIRTLAND.
Statement of the case.

in Minnesota. The plea was the general issue; and by consent of parties a jury was waived and the cause tried by the
court. The plaintiff claimed the premises under a deed
executed in 1864, by the auditor of Ramsey County of that
State upon a sale for unpaid taxes.
The statute of Minnesota of March 11th, 1862, under
which the sale was made, provided that certain lands sold
for taxes of the year 1859, and of previous years, and lands
upon which delinquent taxes were due on the passage of the
act to any city, or to the State, might be redeemed by payment of the amount of the taxes, with interest and costs,
on or before November 1st, 1862; that if any such lands
remained unredeemed, or such delinquent taxes on lands
remained unpaid at that time, the lands should become forfeited to the State, and that thereupon it should be the duty
of the county auditor to advertise the property for sale,
stating that such lands would be sold as forfeited to the State
under the provisions of the act, and the time and place of
sale, which time should be the second Monday in January, 1863.
The statute also contained provisions requiring publication of notices of the sale, prescribing the manner in which
the sale should be conducted, for the issue of certificates of
sale to the purchaser, and, upon the return of the certificates,
for the execution and delivery to him, or his assignee, of a
deed in fee simple for the premises, which should recite the
sale and the fact that the property was unredeemed. And
the statute declared that the deed thus executed should vest
in the grantee an absolute title, both at law and in equity,
except where the tax returned delinquent was actually paid;
and "that any person or persons having or claiming any
right, title, or interest in or to any land or premises after a
sale under the provisions of this act, adverse to the title or
claim of the purchaser at any such tax sale, his heirs or
assigns shall within one year from the time of the recording
of the tax deed for such premises commence an action for
the purpose of testing the validity of such sale, or be forever barred in the premises."
A statute of the State, passed in 1866, provides that where

WILLIAMS V.

KIRTLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lands sold for taxes were not redeemed within the time
allowed by law, the deed executed by the county auditor
should be prima facie evidence of a good and valid title in
the grantee, his heirs, and assigns.
The deed recited that the sale was made on the 11th of
February, 1863, and did not recite any cause for disregarding the day designated for the sale in the statute, namely,
the second Monday in January, 1863. The deed also recited that the sale was "for the sum of $337.80; being the
amount of taxes for the years 1853, 1854, 1855, 1856, 1857,
1859, 1860, 1861, with interests and costs chargeable on said
tract of land."
After the deed was received in evidence, the defendant,
to maintain the issue on his part, produced as a witness the
treasurer of Ramsey County at the time of the sale mentioned in the deed, and offered to prove that the notice of the
sale was insfficient; but the plaintiff objected to the proof
on the ground that it was incompetent and immaterial, and the
objection was sustained by the court. The defendant excepted. The court thereupon found that the plaintiff was
entitled to judgment for the possession of the premises in
controversy, by virtue of the tax deed, and rendered judgment accordingly; and the defendant brought the case here
on writ of error.
Messrs. J. B. Brisbin and B. C. Palmer,for the plaintiff in
error; ir. I. D. Warren, contra.
-Mr.Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
We agree with counsel that the provision in the statute
of March 11th, 1862, that the tax deed executed by the
county auditor should vest in the grantee an absolute title,
both at law and in equity, except where the tax returned
delinquent was actually paid, only declared the effect of a
deed such as the statute contemplated, and did not dispense
with proof of compliance with the preliminary requirements
of the act. The officer, in making the sale and executing
the deed) acted under a special power, and, as in all such

Dec. 1871.]

WILLIAMS
D8.

V. KIRTLAND.

Opinion of the court.

cases, was bound to keep strictly within the limits of his
authority. No attempt'was made by the plaintiff to show
the levy of any tax upon the property, or its non-payment,
or that any sale was ever had. He relied, to supply the want
of such proof, upon a provision of the statute of 1866, declaring that where lands sold for taxes were not redeemed
within the time allowed by law, the deed.executed by the
county auditor should be primi2faeie evidence of a good and
valid title in the grantee, his heirs, and assigns.*
It is admitted that a deed executed under these circumstances would, if valid on its face, have dispensed, in the
first instance, with proof of the previous proceedings, upon
the performance of which a sale only could be made. But
it is contended that it was essential to the admission of a tax
deed, having of itself such effect as evidence, that it should
appear that the lands sold for taxes had not been redeemed
when the deed was executed and delivered. And it is stated
that this has been expressly adjudged by the Supreme Court
of Minnesota upon the construction of the provision of the
statute of 1866 cited by the plaintiff.Et Such is undoubtedly
the ca se, and, had the objection been taken when the deed
was offered, the deed would not have been admissible, in
the absence of such proof, to establish a title in the plaintiff.
But the plaintiff is precluded from availing himself of the
objection here, as it was not urged in the court below, and
is not covered by any of the several objections presented by
him.
It may admit of much doubt, as also contended by counsel, whether the deed was not invalid on its face. The act
of 1862 declares that notice of the sale should be given for
the second Monday of January, 1863. The deed shows that
the sale took place on the 11th of February following, qnd
contains no recitals explaining the disregard of the day designated by the statute and the selection of a different day.
The act of 1862 also provides for sale of certain lands
upon which the taxes of 1859 and of preceding years were
General Statutes of Minnesota of 1866, chap. 112
Greve v. Coffin, 14 Minnesota, 355.

139, 140.

WILLIAMS V. KIRTLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

unpaid. The deed shows that the sale was made for delinquent taxes not only of these years, but also of the subsequent years of 1860 and 1861; and counsel have not called
our attention to any statute of Minnesota which authorizes
a sale for the taxes of these years added to the taxes of the
previous years.
lBut it is not necessary to express any opinion upon these
objections until we have the entire statutes of the State on
the subject of these tax sales before us. There is one error
in the ruling of the court below which will require a reversal
of the judgment. Giving to the deed full effhect as prin
facie evidence of title, its validity was open to question by
the defendant. The statute does not dispense with the performance of all the requirements of the law prescribed for
the sale of the land. It only shifts the burden of proof of
such compliance from the ptrty claiming under the deed to
the party attacking it. The deed itself, when admitted,
creates under the statute a presumption that all essential
preliminary steps in the assessment and levy of the tax and
sale of the property have been complied with. This presumption the defendant desired to rebut. He offered to
prove that the notice of the sale was insufficient, but the
offer was rejected under the objection that the proof was incompetent and immaterial. In this the court below erred.
Some criticism was made upoon the form of the offer, that
it was not to prove any particular fact, but a conclusion of
law. It would undoubtedly have been better for counsel to
have stated the facts he desired to establish, but no objection
was taken to the form of the offer; the objection was only to
the competency and materiality of the proof; and it would
be unjust to the defendant to deprive him in this court of the
benefit of his offer on grounds not presented in the court
below. That court evidently considered the right of the
defendant to question the validity of the deed as lost by the
operation of the 7th section of the act of 1862, which declared: "That any person or persons having or claiming
any right, title, or interest in or to any land or premises after
a sale under the provisious of this act, adverse to the title or

Dec. 1871.]

CANAL COMPANY V.

CLARK.

Syllabu .

claim of the purchaser at any such tax sale, his heirs or as-

signs shall within one year from the time of the recording
of the tax deed for such premises commence an action. for
the purpose of testing the validity of such sale, or be forever
barred in the premises."
It is a sufficient answer to this view of the operation of
this statute, that the Supreme Court of Minnesota has adjudged that the statute does not apply to cases where the
owner of the property defends against a tax deed in an action
of ejectment; and if it were susceptible of such application
that the statute itself would be in conflict with the constitution of the State.* This construction of a State law upon
a question affecting the titles to real property in the State by
its highest court, is binding upon the Federal courts.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, and the cause
REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

CANAL COMPANY V. CLARK.
1. To entitle a name to equitable protection as a trade-mark, the right
to its use must be exclusive, and not one which others may employ
with as much truth as those wflo use it. And this is so although the
use by a second producer, in describing truthfully his product, of a
name or a combination of words already in use by another, may have
the effect of causing the public to mistake as to the origin or ownership
of the product. Purchasers though mistaken, are not in such a case
deceived by false representations, and equity will not enjoin against
telling the truth.
2. Hence no one can apply the name of a district of country to a well-known
article of commerce, and obtain thereby such an exclusive right to the
application as to prevent others inhabiting the district or dealing in
similar articles coming from the district, from truthfully using the
same designation.
3. Accordingly, where the coal of one person who early and long mined
coal in a valley of Pennsylvania known as the Lackawanna Valley had
been designated and become known as "Lackawanna coal," H~eld, that
miners who came in afterwards and mined in another part of the same
* Baker v. Kelley, 11 Minnesota, 480.

