BATH COUNTY

v.

AMY.

E-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

BATH COUNTY v. AmY.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have no power to issue writs of
mandamus to State courts, by way of original proceeding, and where
such writ is neither necessary nor ancillary to any jurisdiction which the
court then had.
Hence such writ, on error here, was held to have been wrongly
granted in favor of a holder of county bonds, to make the county levy
a tax; the creditor not having obtained judgment in the Circuit Court
on his claim, nor even put it into suit.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Kentucky;
the case being thus:
The 11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, enacts that-

"The Circuit Court shall have original cognizance concurrent with the courts of the several States, of all suits of a civil
nature at common law, ... between a citizen of the State where
the suit was brought, and a citizen of another State."
The 14th section of the same act, referring to certain
courts of the United States, including the Circuit Courts,
enacts:
"That all the before-mentioned courts of the United States
shall have power to issue writs of scire facias,habeas corpus, and
ALL other writs not specially provided fbr by statute, which may
be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and
agreeable to the principles and usages of law."
An act passed in 1813 by, the legislature of Kentucky
(which State was admitted into the Union A. D. 1792), enacts:
"SECTION 2. That it shall be lawful for the person at whose
instance a mandamus may be issued, to traverse the truth of
any one or more of the facts asserted in the return made to such
writ, the traverser concluding the same by an appeal to the
country for the trial of the contested facts upon which issue
may have been taken by such traverse. A jury shall be empanelled and sworn by order of the court having jurisdiction
thereof, subject to the same rules and regulations, and with
power to such courts to superintend and control such jury, by

Dec. 1871.]

BATH COUNTY V. AmY.
Statement of the case.

instructing them in points of law which may arise in the course
of such trial, or'of granting new trials in the same manner, and
to be governed by the same principles which are applicable to
the trial by jury in other cases at common law.
"SECTION 3. It shall be the duty of such court upon the result
of any such finding as aforesaid, to pronounce judgment thereon
in favor of either party according to law, and to award judgment for the costs of suing out or defending such mandamus as
the case may be, in favor of the successful party, upon which
execution shall and may be issued as in other cases."
And, finally, an act of Congress of May 19th, 1828, enacts:
"That the forms of mesne process, except the style, and the
forms and modes of proceeding in suits in the courts of the
United States held in those States admitted into the Union since
the 29th day of September, in the year 1789, in those of common
law, shall be the same, in each of the said States respectively,
as are now used in the highest court of original and general
jurisdiction of the same."
With those statutes, Federal and State, in force, the legislature of Kentucky incorporated, A. D. 1852, the Lexington
and Big Sandy Railroad Company. By the charter of the
railroad the county courts of the different counties, through
which it was to run, were authorized to subscribe to the
stock of the road, and to pay their subscriptions by borrowing money; making the moneyf borrowed payable in the
way in which the county courts should deem most advisable.
The interest on all such sums borrowed was to be provided
for in like manner, provided that all taxes laid to pay either
principal and interest, should be sacredly appropriated to
such purpose and no other. A subsequent act required the
county courts to issue bonds, and to proceed to.levy, assess,
and collect a tax to pay the interest thereon, according to
the true intent and meaning of the previous act.
The county of Bath subscribed $150,000, and issued one
hundred and fifty bonds of $1000 each, payable thirty years
from date, with interest semiannually, for which coupons
were annexed. And the company having indorsed them,
sold, and put them into circulation. The county court levied

246

BATH COUNTY V.

Aumy.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in support of the mandamus.

the tax and paid the interest for five years, and then stopped
payment.
In this state of things one Amy, of New York, being the
holder of eighty-two of the bonds, with the overdue and
unpaid coupons, in November, 1866, made a written demand upon the justices, who composed the county court of
Bath County, requiring the court forthwith to levy the necessary tax to pay his coupons, and notified to each of the judges
that if they did not do so, he would on the second day of the
next term of the Circuit Court of the United States, sitting
in the Diistrict, move that court for the writ of mandamus
requiring them to do it. No tax was levied; and at the
next term of the Circuit Court, Amy accordingly filed an
affidavit in the nature of anl information, setting forth specifically his case, and concluding with a prayer for a mandamnus requiring the tax to be levied. The court granted
a rule against the county to show cause why the writ should
not issue. The county came and craved oyer of the bonds
and coupons, which was had, upon which it moved the court
to discharge the rule; and also filed a response to the rule
setting forth eleven points of defence. By agreement of
counsel a general traverse of the facts set out in the response
was entered on the record, and the law and facts submitted
to the court for trial and decision. Upon the trial, the court
found the issues for the plaintiff, and gave judgment awarding a peremptory writ of mandamus. To reverse this judgment the county brought the case here. The chief ground
of the argument of their counsel, Messrs. 1. Blair, .1 G. Carlisle, and J. B. Beck, being that under the 14th section of the
act of September 24th, 1789, the Circuit Court of the United
States had no jurisdiction to issue a writ of mandamus, there
having been no previous judgment of the court in favor of
the party holding the obligations, and no previous attempt
made by it to enforce their payment by its ordinary process.
Messrs. J. TV. Stevenson, and H. Myers, contra, and in support of the ruling below:
The argument is that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction

Dec. 1871.]

BATH

COUNTY V. AMY.

Opinion of the court.

until the relator had reduced his demand to judgment, and
had an execution returned, "no property" thereon. But
in no case has this court decided that this was a prerequisite
to the jurisdiction.
Mandamus is a common law action, so held by this court.*
The act bf 1813 of Kentucky, in which State the caus6 originated, makes the proceedings by mandamus there also a
suit of a civil nature at common law; not a mere incident
to another suit. The parties plead to issue. Issues of fact
are to be tried by jury; issues of law, by the court. Judgment is to be awarded, and execution issued thereon. This
act of 1813 was in force when the act of Congress of May
19th, 1828, was adopted, providing that the proceedings in
suits at common law, in States admitted to the Union since
1789, shall be the same in the National courts in each of said
States, as are now used in the highest courts of original and
general j urisdiction of the same.
Now by the course of proceeding in Kentucky, it is not
necessary that a party who has a right to have a tax levied
by a county court or city council to pay his demand, should
reduce the demand to judgment before applying for the writ
of mandamus requiring the levy of the tax. This is settled
by adjudicated cases,t and that where a party has the right
to have a county court levy a tax, upon their refusal, after
demand, he may proceed in the first instance for the writ.
Certainly this court, under the act of Congress of 1828,
will award to the citizen of another State the same relief
that the State court would give one of its own citizens in a
case arising upon the statute laws of that State.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the dpinion of the court.
It must be considered as settled that the Circuit Courts
of the United States are not authorized dto issue writs of
mandamus, unless they are necessary to the exercise of their
respective jurisdictions. Those courts are creatures of stat* Kendall v. The United States, 12 Peters, 615.

- Justices of Clarke County v. Turnpike Company, 11 Ben Monroe, 154;
Maddox v. Graham, 2 Metcalfe, 56.

BATH COUNTY V.

AmY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ute, and they have only so much of the judicial power of
the United States as the acts of Congress have conferred
upon them. The Judiciary Act of 1789, which established
them, by its 11th section, enacted that they shall have original cognizance, concurrently with the courts of the several
States, of "all suits of a civil nature at common law, or in
equity," between a citizen of the State in which the suit is
brought and a citizen of another State, or where an alien is
a party. While it may be admitted that, in some senses,
the writ of mandamus may properly be denominated a suit
at law, it is still material to inquire whether it was intended
to be embraced in the gift of power to hear and determine
all suits at common law, of a civil nature, conferred by the
Judiciary Act. At the time when the act was passed it was
a high prerogative writ, issuing in the king's name only
from the Court of King's Bench, requiring the performance
of some act or duty, the execution of which the court had
previously determined to be consonant with right and justice. It was not, like ordinary proceedings at law, a writ
of right, and the court had no jurisdiction to grant it in any
case except those in which it was the legal judge of the duty
required to be performed. Nor was it applicable, as a private remedy, to enforce simple common-law rights between
individuals. Were there nothing more, then, in the Judiciary
Act than the grant of-general authority to take cognizance
of all suits of a civil nature at common law, it might well be
doubted whether it was intended to confer the extraordinary
powers residing in the British Court of King's Bench to
award prerogative writs. All doubts upon this subject, however, are set at rest by the 14th section of the same act, which
enacted that Circuit Courts shall have "power to issue writs
of scirefacias, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially
provided for by statute, which may be necessary to the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the
principles and usages of law." Among those other writs,
no doubt, mandamus is included; and this special provision
indicates that the power to grant such writs generally was
not understood to be granted by the 11th section, which con-

Dec. 1871.]

BATH COUNTY v. AMY.
Opinion of the court.

ferred, only to a limited extent, upon the Circuit Courts the
judicial power existing in the government under the Constitution. Power to issue such writs is granted by the 14th
section, but with the restriction that they shall be necessary
to the exercise of the jurisdiction given. Why make this
grant if it had been previously made in the 11th section?
The limitation only was needed.
This subject has heretofore been under consideration in
this court, and in McI'ntire v. Wood,* it was unanimously decided that the power of the Circuit Courts to issue the writ
of mandamus is confined exclusively to those cases in which
it may be necessary to the exercise of their jurisdiction.
The court said: "Had the 11th section of the Judiciary Act
covered the whole ground of the Constitution, there would
be much reason for exercising this power in many cases
wherein some ministerial act is necessary to the completion
of an individual right arising under laws of the United
States, and the 14th section of the act would sanction the
issuing of the writ for such a purpose. But, although the
judicial power of the United States extends to cases arising
under the laws of the United States, the legislature have not
thought proper to delegate the exercise of that power to its
Circuit Courts, except in certain specified cases." A~d in
McClung v. Sillirnan,t this court said, when speaking of the
power to issue writs of mandamus: "The 14th section of
the act under consideration (the Judiciary Act) could only
have been intended to vest the power . . . in cases where

the jurisdiction already exists, and not where it is to be
courted or acquired by means of the writ proposed to be
sued out." In other words, the writ cannot be used to confer a jurisdiction which the Circuit Court would not have
without it. It is authorized only when ancillary to a jurisdiction already acquired. The doctrine asserted in both
these cases was conceded to be correct by both the majority
and the minority of the court in Kendall v. The United States.t
7 Cranch, 504.
t 6 Wheaton, 601.
: 12 Peters, 584; see also The Secretary v. McGarrahan, 9 Wallace, 311.

BATH COUNTY V. Aiy.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The power to issue a writ of mandamus as an original and
independent proceeding does not, then, belong to the Circuit
Courts.
It has been argued, on behalf of the defendant in error,
that the writ of mandamus is a civil action in Kentucky;
that the proceedings therein were regulated by an act of the
legislature of that State, approved January 8th, 1813, still in
force, which directed how a traverse to the return shall be
tried in the State courts, and what judgment may be pronounced, and that the act of Congress of May 19th, 1828,
directed that the proceedings in suits at common law in
States admitted to the Union since 1789, of which Kentucky
is one, shall be the same in the Federal courts as those used,
when the act was passed, in the highest courts of original
and general jurisdiction in those States. Hence it is inferred
that the law of Kentucky respecting mandamus has been
adopted as a part of the rule of practice of the United States
Circuit Court for that State. The argument rests on a misapprehension of the meaning of the act of 1828. It was a
process act, designed only to regulate proceedings in the
Federal courts after they had obtained jurisdiction; not to
enlarge their jurisdiction. The purpose was to make the
forms of process and forms and modes of proceeding in those
courts correspond with the forms and modes in use in the
State courts. The words of the act are, " that the forms of
mesne process, except the style, and the forms and modes
of proceeding in suits in the courts of the United States held
in those States admitted into the Union since the 29th day
of September, in the year 1789, in those of common law,
shall be the same, in each of the said States respectively, as
are now used in the highest court of original and general
jurisdiction of the same." It is quite too much to infer
from this an enlargement of jurisdiction, or an adoption of
all the powers which the State courts then had. There is,
then, no act of Congress which has conferred upon Circuit
Courts authority to issue the writ of mandamus as an original
proceeding, or at all, except when necessary for the exercise
of the jurisdiction conferred upon them by law.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. AVERY.

Statement of the case.

Applying this rule to the present case it is decisive. The
relator's claim for payment had not been brought to judgment in the Circuit Court, nor had it been put in suit. His
application for 2 mandamus was, therefore, an original proceeding, neither necessary nor ancillary to any jurisdiction
which the court then had. For this reason it should have
been denied, and the judgment that a peremptory mandamus
should issue was erroneous.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with in-

structions to
DismISS THE PETITION FOR A MANDAMUS.

UNITED STATES V. AVERY.

1. The court cannot take cognizance of a division of opinion under the Judiciary Act of 1802, between the judges of the Circuit Court on a motion
to quash an indictment, even when the motion presents the question
of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court to try the offence charged.
2. United States v. -Rosenburgh(7 Wallace, 580), recognized and followed.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the District of South Carolina:
Avery and others were indicted under the act of May 81st,
1870,* known as the Enforcement Act, for conspiracy, with
intent to violate the first section of that act, by unlawfully
hindering, preventing, and restraining divers males, citizens
of the United States, of African descent, from exercising
the right of voting; and the second count of the indictment
after charging this offence further charged, under the 7th
section of that act, that in the act of committing the offence
aforesaid, they murdered one Jim Williams, "contrary to
the form of the statute in such case made and provided, and
against the peace and dignity of the State of South Carolina." The first count charged the conspiracy without the
* 16 Stat. at Large, 140.

