Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.

Syllabus.

especially is this apparent when it is proven that the reason
why monthly accounts were made out to the steamboat company in bulk was for the sake of convenience, and to save a
useless accumulation of bills. There is nothing besides this
journal entry to indicate that the coal was furnished on the
personal credit of the company; and, as the other facts in
the case are in favor of a charge direct to the steamship, we
do not think the legal inference of credit to the ship is removed.
The lien of nraterial-men for supplies in a foreign port is
of so high a character that, in the case of The St. Tago de

Cuba,* it was protected, along with that of seamen's wages,
against a forfeiture which had accrued to the United States;
and the recent decisions in this court have had the effect to
place this lien on a more substantial footing than some previous cases seem to have left it.t
On the whole, while we ,concede that the case is not free
from difficulty, we are not disposed to disturb the decree of
the Circuit Court, in any particular. It is accordingly
APPIRMED.

BRADLEY V. FiSHER.

1. An order of the Criminal Court of the District of Columbia, made in
1867, striking the name of an attorney from its roll, did not remove the
attorney from the bar of the Supreme Court of the District, the Criminal Court being at that time a separate and independent court; and in
an action by the attorney against the judge of the Criminal Court, that
order was inadmissible to show a removal by order of the defendant, or
by order of the court held by him, from the Supreme Court, notwithstanding that an act of Congress, passed in 1870, changed the independent character of the Criminal Court, and declared that its judgments,
decrees, and orders should be deemed the judgments, decrees, and orders
of the Supreme Court of the District. The act of Congress, in enlarging the operation of the order, did not alter its original character.
9 Wheaton, 409.
t The Grapeshot, 9 WRallace, 129; The Lulu, 10 Id. 192; The Kalorama,
Id. 201.

BRADLEY V.

FiSHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.
2. Judges of courts of record of superior or general jurisdiction are not
liable to civil actions for their judicial acts, even when such acts are in
excess of their jurisdiction, and are alleged to have been done maliciously or corruptly. A distinction as to their liability made between
acts done by them in excess of their jurisdiction and acts done by them
in the clear absence of all jurisdiction over the subject-matter.
3. The power to remove attorneys from the bar is possessed by all courts
which have authority to admit attorneys to practice; but, except where
the matters constituting the grounds of its action occur in open court
in the presence of its judges, the power of the court should not be exercised without notice to the offending party of the grounds of complaint
against him, and affording him ample opportunity of explanation and
defence.
4. The obligation which attorneys assume when they are admitted to the
bar is not simply to be obedient to the Constitutton and laws, but to
maintain at all times the respect due to courts o4 justice and judicial
officers. This obligation is not discharged by merely observing the
rules of courteous demeanor in open court, but includes abstaining out
of court from insulting language and offensive conduct towards the
judges personally for their judicial acts. A threat of personal chastisement, made by an attorney to a judge out of court for his conduct during
the trial of a cause pending, is good ground for striking the name of the
attorney from the rolls of attorneys practicing in the court. Such an
order is a judicial act for which the judge is not liable to the attorney
in a civil action.
N

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action brought by Joseph H. Bradley, who
was, in 1867, an attorney-at-law, practicing in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, against George P. Fisher,
who was then one of the justices of that court, to recover
damages alleged to have been sustained by the plaintifl "by
reason of the wilful, malicious, oppressive, and tyriannical
acts and conduct" of the defendant, whereby the plaintiff
was deprived of his right to practice as an attorney in that
court. The case was thus:
ERROR

On the 10th of June, 1867, the trial of John II. Suratt,
for the murder of the late President Lincoln, was begun in
the Criminal Court of the District and continued until the
10th of August, when the jury, failing to agree on a verdict,
was discharged. The defendant was the presiding judge in
the court during the progress of the trial, and until its ter-

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY v. FISHER.
Statement of the case.

mination, and the plaintiff was one of the attorneys who defended the prisoner. Immediately on the discharge of the
jury, the court thus held by the defendant made the following order, which with its recitals was entered of record:
"On the 2d day of July last, during the progress of the trial
of John H. Suratt for the murder of Abraham Lincoln, immediately after the court had taken a recess until the following
morning, as the presiding justice was descending from the
bench, Joseph H. Bradley, Esq., accosted him in a rude and insulting manner, charging the judge with having offered him
(Mr. Bradley) a series of insults from the bench from the commencement of thetrial. The judge disclaimed any intention of
passing any insult whatever, and assured Mr. Bradley that he
entertained for him no other feelings than those of respect.
Mr. Bradley, so far from accepting this explanation or disclaimer, threatened the judge with personal chastisement. 1o
court can administer justice or live if its judges are to be threatened with personal chastisement on all occasions whenever the
irascibility of counsel may be excited by imaginary insult. The
offence of Mr. Bradley is one which even his years" will not palliate. It cannot be overlooked or go unpunished.
" It is, therefore, ordered that his name be stricken from the
roll of attorneys practicing in this court.
" GEORGE P. FISHER,
"Justice of the Supreme Court, D.

.

The present suit was founded upon this order, which was
treated in the declaration as an order striking the name of
the plaintiff from the roll of attorneys of the Supreme Court
of the District, and not as an order merely striking his name
from the roll of attorneys practicing in the Oriminal Court of
the -District. The declaration had two counts, and was entitled and filed in the Supreme Court of the District.
Thefirst count alleged that the defendant caused the order
(which was set out at length) to be recorded "on the minutes of the Criminal Court, being one of the branches of the
said Supreme Court;" that the several statements contained
in the order were untrue, and were specifically denied; and
that the defendant "falsely, fraudulently, corruptly,,and mavOL. XIii.

22

338

BRADLEY V. FISHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

liciously intended thereby to give a color of jurisdiction"
for making the order that the name of the plaintiff "be
stricken from the roll of attorneys practicingin this court," whereby the plaintiff had been injured, and claimed damages,
$20,000.
The second count alleged that the defendant "wantonly,
corruptly, arbitrarily, and oppressively intending to remove
the plaintiff" from his office as an attorney-at-law, "caused
to be entered on the records of the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, Criminal Court, March Term, 1867," the order
in question, which was set forth at length, " the same being an
order removing the plainifffrom the office of an attorney-at-law in
the said Supreme Court of the District of Columbia," whereby
he was greatly disturbed in the enjoyment of his office and
prevented from having the use and benefit thereof, in so full
and ample a manner as he otherwise might and would have
had.
The declaration also averred that the order was made
-without notice of any kind to the plaintiff, and was summiary, that there was no complaint made by him to the
justice, and that he did not accost him while the court was
in session, nor immediately on the court's taking a recess
and as the presiding judge was descending from the bench,
.as was stated in the order, nor did be, the plaintiff, at the
time and place mentioned in the order, address the justice
at all after the court had taken the recess, until the judge
had passed some time in a private room, and had left the
same .and gone out of the court-house; and the great body
of auditors, jurors, witnesses, clerks, and officers of the
court, and the jury impanelled, and the prisoner on trial
had left the court-house; and so the declaration proceeded
to say, "the said judge wilfully, maliciously, corruptly, and unlawfully fab),icated the said order to give color and pretence to his
jurisdictionin the premises."
By reason of which unlawful, wrongful, p.njust, and oppressive acts of ithe defendant, the plaintiff alleged that he
had been deprived of emoluments, and had lost sums of
money which would otherwise have accrued to him from

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.
Statement of the case.

the enjoyment of his office and from his practice as an
attorney in the courts of the county and district, &c., &c.,
and therefore he claimed $20,000 damages.
Pleas: 1st, the general issue, "not guilty;" and 2d, a
special plea, that before and at the time of the alleged commission, &c., the defendant was one of the justices of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and, as suchjustice,
was regularlyand lawfully holding, by appointment of saidSupreme
Court of the -Districtof Columbia, in general term, at the city
of Washington, in said District, a court of record, to wit, the
Criminal Court of said District, created by authority of the
United States of America, and having general jurisdiction for
the trial of crimes and offences arising within said District,
and that the said supposed trespass consisted of an order
and decree of said Criminal Court, made by said defendant
in the lawful exercise and performance of his authority and
duty, as the presiding justice of said Criminal Court, for
official misconduct and misbehavior of said "plaintiff (he
being one of the attorneys of said Criminal Court), occurring in the presence of the said defendant as the justice of
said Criminal Court holding the same as aforesaid and not
otherwise; as appears from the record of said Criminal
Court and the order or decree of the defendant so made as
aforesaid.
Wherefore he prayed judgment, if the plaintiff ought to
have or maintain his aforesaid action against him, &c.
The defendant joined issue on this plea.
On the trial the plaintiff produced the order entered by
the Criminal Court, which was admitted to be in the handwriting of the defendant, and offered to read it in evidence,
but upon objection of the defendant's counsel to its admissibility, it was excluded, and the plaintiff excepted. Subsequently the plaintiff read in evidence the order, as entered,
from the records of the Criminal Court, and offered to show
that the order was prepared, written, and published by the
defendant with express malice against the plaintif, to defame and injure him, and without the defendant having any
jurisdiction to make the order; and that there was no alter-

340

BRADLEY V. FIsHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cation on .the 2d July, 1867, between him and the judge,
and that no words passed between them; and that they
were not near each other when the Criminal Court took its
recess, until the next day or immediately thereafter, and as
the presidingjustice thereof was descending from the bench;
but upon objection of the defendant's counsel the proof was
excluded, and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff also offered to prove that the only interview
between him and the judge, which occurred on the 2d of
July, 1867, after the Criminal Court had taken a recess,
began after the court bad adjourned, and the judge had left
the court-room and the building and returned to the courtroom, and in that interview he did not address the judge in
a rude and insulting manner; that he did not charge him
with having offered him, the plaintiff, a series of insults
from the bench from the commencement of the trial; that
the judge did not disclaim any intention of passing any insult whatevgr, nor assure the plaintiff that he entertained
for him no other feelings but those of respect; that the
plaintiff did not threaten the judge with personal chastisement, but to the contrary thereof, the said judge was from
the opening of the interview violent, abusive, threatening,
and quarrelsome; but upon objection the proof was excluded,
and the plaintiff excepted.
The plaintiff thereupon asked a witness to state what
passed between the plaintiff and defendant on the said 2d of
July, 1867, the time when the parties met, and whether it
was before the adjournment of the court on that day, or
after it had adjourned, and how long after it had adjourned,
and to state all he knew relating to that matter; the object
of the evidence being to contradict the recitals in the order,
and show that the justice had no jurisdiction in the premises,
and had acted with malice and corruptly. But upon 6bjection the evidence was excluded, and the plaintiff excepted.
And the court ruled that, on the face of the record given
in evidence, the defendant had jurisdiction and discretion
to make the order, and he could not be held responsible in
this private action for so doing, and instructed the jury that

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.

Statement of the case.

the plaintiff was not entitled to recover. The jury accordingly gave a verdict for the defendant, and judgment being
entered thereon, the plaintiff brought the case to this court
on a writ of error.
To understand one point of the case the better, it may be
Mentioned that in Ex parte Bradley,* this court granted a
peremptory mandamus to the Supreme Court of the District
to restore Mr. Bradley to his office of attorney and counsellor
in that court, from which in consequence of the matter with
Judge Fisher in the Criminal Court, he had been removed;
this court, that is to say the Supreme Court of the United
States, holding that the Criminal Court of the District was,
at the time the order in question was made, a different and
separate court from the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, as organized by the act of March 3d, 1863.
It may also be stated that on the 21st bf June, 1870,
after the decision just mentioned, Congress passed an act,
entitled, "An act relating to the Supreme Cou.rt of the District of Columbia,"t which declared "that the several general terms and special terms of the circuit courts, district
courts, and criminal courts authorized by the act approved
March 3d, 1863, entitled 'An act to reorganiz the courts
in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes,' which
have been or may be held, shall be, and are declared to be
severally, terms of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia; and the judgments, decrees, sentences, orders,
proceedings, and acts of said general terms, special terms,
circuit courts, district courts, and criminal courts heretofore
or hereafter rendered, made, or had, shall be deemed judgments, decrees, sentences, orders, proceedings, and acts of
said Supreme Court."
It may be well also, as counsel in argument refer to it, to
state that an act of Congress of March 2d, 1831,1 enacted:
"That the power of the several courts of the United States
to issue attachments and inflict summary punishmentsfor contempt
of court, shall not be construed to extend to any cases except
* 7 Wallace, 864.

t" 16 Star. at Large, 160.

$ 4 Id. 487.

BRADLEY

v. FIsHER.[

[Sup. ot.

Argument in behalf of the attorney.

the misbehavior of any person or persons in the presence of the
said courts, or so near thereto as to obstruct the administration
of justice; the misbehavior of any of the officers of the said courts
in their official transactions, and the disobedience or resistance
by any officer of the said courts, party, juror, witness, or any
other person or persons, to any lawful writ, process, order, rule,
decree, or command of the said courts."
Messrs. J. I. Harrisand 1-.T. Merrick, for the plaintiff in
error:

1. By the act of Congress of June, 1870, the judgments,
decrees, and orders of the Criminal Court of the District
are to be deemed the judgments, decrees, and orders of the
Supreme Court. All the effects, therefore, of the decision
by this court of the case Ex parte Bradley, and argument
that the order Qf the Criminal Court is not an order removing or disbarring the plaintiff from the Supreme Court, fall
to the ground, in virtue of this act, and irrespectively of
other reasons which might be adduced.
2. The judge relies in effect upon the order of court made
by him. The plaintiff in reply alleges that the judge has
himself fabricated the statement of facts set forth in that
order-made it falsely and fraudulently-and by such fabrication, and by a false and fraudulent statement that certain
things which never took place at all, did take place, corruptly sought to give himself jurisdiction in the case where
he has acted. Now, the evidence which the plaintiff offered
and which the court refused, tended directly to prove that the
whole statement ordered by the judge to be put on record,
was false and fabricated; and that it was made but to give
color to a usurped jurisdiction; in other words, that the statement was fraudulently made. Certainly the plaintiff had
a right to show such facts; for the judge had no power or
jurisdiction to make the order complained of, if the matters
recited never occurred. Under such circumstances, a judge,
knowing the facts, is liable, even though he did not act corruptly;* and dfortiori is liable in a case where he did so act.
* Houlden v. Smith, 14 Queen's Bench, 841.

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.

343.

Argument in behalf of the attorney.

3. The courts of the District are, of course, courts of theUnited States; and whether the proceeding for which thisaction is brought, be regarded as a punishment for contempt, or as a punishment for alleged misbehavior in office
-a matter which the form of the order leaves quite uncertain-it was in the face of the statute of March 2d, 1831This is undoubtedly so if it was for contempt; and even if
it was for misbehavior in office the statute would still seen.
to apply; for it prohibits a summary proceeding except in
the cases which the act specifies; cases which all look to
misconduct that interferes with the administration of justice-.
But for a man who may have been once admitted to the.
bar, to threaten out of court, with assault, another man who.
happens to be a judge, and so occasionally in court, is neither
misbehavior in office nor a contempt of court.
4. But if the offence for which Mr. Bradley was disbarred
was misbehavior in office, and if that be not within the statute
of March 2d, 1831, still, undoubtedly, he should have had.
notice and an opportunity of defending himself. Admit
that the court may proceed summarily, still summary jurisdiction is not arbitrary power; and a summons and opportunity of being heard is a fundamental principle of all justice.* The principle has been declared by this court in Ex
parle Garland,t to be specifically applicable to the case of disbarring an attorney; and so declared for obvious. reasons..
Without then having summoned Mr. Bradley, ah'd having
given to him an opportunity to be heard, the court had no
jurisdiction of Mr. Bradley's person or of any case relating
to him. It is not enough that it have jurisdiction over thesubject-matter of the complainant generally;: it must havejurisdiction over the particular case, and if it have not, the
judgment is void ab initio.i The whole subject is set forth
in Smith's Leading Cases,ยง where the authorities are col*Rex

v. Chancellor of Cambridge, 2 Lord Raymond, 1348.

4 Wallace, 378.
M
Mitchell v. Foster, 12 Adolphus & Ellis, 472; United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 709; Walden v. Craig's Heirs, 14 Id. 154.
Vol. 1, p. 1023, edition of 1866, Crepps v. Durden.

BRADLEY

v. FIsHER.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

lected and the principle deduced, that when the record
shows that the court has proceeded without notice to the
party condemned, the judgment will be void, and may be
disregarded in ally collateral proceeding.
Mr. A. G. Riddle and W. A. Cook, contra.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1867, the plaintiff was a member of the bar of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and the defendant
was one of the justices of that court. In June, of that year,
the trial of one John I. Suratt, for the murder of Abraham
Lincoln, was commenced in the Criminal Court of the District, and was continued until the tenth of the following
August, when the jury were discharged in consequence of
their inability to agree upon a verdict. The defendant held
that court, presiding at the trial of Suratt from its commencement to its close, and the plaintiff was one of the
attorneys who defended the prisoner. Immediately upon
the discharge of the jury, the court, thus held by the defendant, directed an order to be entered on its records striking the name of the plaintiff from the roll of attorneys practicingin that court. The order was accompanied by a recital
that on the second of July preceding, during the progress
of the trial of Suratt, immediately after the court had taken
a recess for the day, as the presiding judge was descending
from the bench, he had been accosted in a rude and insulting manner by the plaintiff, charging him with having offered
the plaintiff a series of insults from the bench from the commencement of the trial; that the judge had then disclaimed
any intention of passing any insult whatever, and had assured the plaintiff that he entertained for him no other
feelings than those of respect, but that the plaintiff, so fhr
from accepting this explanation, or disclaimer, had threatened the judge with personal chastisement.
The plaintiff appears to have regarded this order of the
Criminal Court as an order disbarring him from the Supreme Court of the District; and the wl '- +11eory of the

Dec.1871.]

BRADLEY V. FIsHER.
Opinion of the court.

present action proceeds upon that hypothesis. The declaration in one count describes the Criminal Court as one of the
branches of the Supreme Court, and in the other count
represents the order of the Criminal Court as an order
removing the plaintiff from the office of an attorney-at-law
in the Supreme Court of the District. And it is for the supposed removal from that court, and the assumed damages
consequent thereon, that the action is brought.
Yet the Criminal Court of the District was at that time a
separate and independent court, and as distinct from the
Supreme Court of the District as the Circuit Court is distinct from the Supreme Court of the United States. Its distinct and independent character was urged by the plaintiff,
and successfully urged, in this court, as ground for relief
against the subsequent action of the Supreme Court of the
District, based upon what had occurred in the Criminal
Court. And because of its distinct and independent character, this court held that the Supreme Court of the District
possessed no power to punish the plaintiff on account of
contemptuous conduct and language before the Criminal
Court, or in the presence of its judge. By this' decision,
which was rendered at the December Term of 1868,* the
groundwork of the present action of the plaintiff is removed.
The law which he successfully invoked, and which protected
him when he complained of the action of the Supreme Court
of the District, must now equally avail for the protection of
the defendant, when it is attempted to give to the Criminal
Court a position and power which were then denied. The
order of the Criminal Court, as it was then constituted, was
not an order of the Supreme Court of the District, nor of
one of the branches of that court. It did not, for we know
that in law it could not, remove the plaintiff from the office
of an attorney of that court, nor affect his right to practice
therein.
This point is distinctly raised by the special plea of the
defendant, in which he sets up that at the time the order
* Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wallace, 364.

BRADLEY V.

FISHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

complained of was made, he was regularly and lawfully
holding the Criminal Court of the District, a court of record,
having general jurisdiction for the trial of crimes and offences arising within the District, and that the order complained of was an ordeiof the Criminal Court, made by him
in the lawful exercise and performance of his authority and
duty as its presiding justice, for official misconduct of the
plaintiff, as one of its attorneys, in his presence; and upon
this plea the plaintiff joined issue.
The court below, therefore, did not err in excluding the
order of removal as evidence in the cause, for the obvious
reason that it did not establish, nor tend to establish, the removal of the plaintiff by any order of the defendant, or of
the court held by him, from the bar of the Supreme Court
of the District. And the refusal of the court below to admit
evidence contradicting the recitals in that order, could not
be the ground of any just exception, when the order itself
was not pertinent to any issue presented. Ior is this conclusion affected by the act of Congress passed in June, 1870,
nearly three years after the order of removal was made, and
nearly. two years after the present action was commenced,
changing the independent character of the Criminal Court
and declaring that its judgments, decrees, and orders
should be deemed the judgments, decrees, and orders of the
Supreme Court of the District.* If the order of removal
acquired from this legislation a wider scope and operation
than it possessed when made, the defendant is not responsible for it. The original act was not altered. It was still
an order disbarring the plaintiff only from the Criminal
Court, and any other consequences are attributable to the
action of Congress, and not to any action of the defendant.
But this is not all. The plea, as will be seen from our
statement of it, not only sets up that the order of which the
plaintiff complains, was an order of the Criminal Court, but
that it was made by the defendant in the lawful exercise
and performance of his authority and duty as its presiding
* 16 Stat. at Large, 160.

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.
Opinion of the court.

justice. In other words; it sets up that the order for the
entry of which the suit is brought, was a judicial act, done
by the defendant as*the presiding justice of a court of general criminal jurisdiction. If such were the character of the
act, and the jurisdiction of the couft, the defendant cannot
be subjected to responsibility for it in a civil action, however
erroneous the act may have been, and-however injurious in
its consequences it may have proved to the plaintiff. For it
is a general principle of the highest importance to the proper
administration of justice that a judicial officer, in exercising
the authority vested in him, shall be free to act upon bid
own convictions, without apprehension of personal consequences to himself. Liability to answer to every one who
might feel himself aggrieved by the action of the judge,
would be inconsistent with the possession of this freedom,
and would destroy that independence without which no judiciary can be either respectable or useful. As observed by. a
distinguished English judge, it would establish the weakness
of judicial authority in a degrading responsibility.*
The principle, therefore, which exempts judges of courts
of superior or general authority from liability in a civil
action for acts done by them in the exercise of their judicial
functions, obtains in all co.untries where there is any wellordered system of jurisprudence. It has been the settled
doctrine of the English courts for many centuries, and has
never been denied, that we are aware of, in the courts of
this country. It has, as Chancellor Kent observes, "a deep
root in the common law."t
N~or can this exemption of the judges from civil liability
be affected by the motives with which their judicial acts are
performed. The purity of their motives cannot in this way
be the subject of judicial inquiry. This was adjudged in
the case of Ployd and Barker, reported by Coke, in 1608, +
where it was laid down that the judges of the realm could
not be drawn in question for any supposed corruption ima* Justice Mayne, in Taaffe v. Downes, reported in a note to 3d Moore's
Privy Council, 41.
t Yates v. Lansing, 5 Johnson, 291.
j 12 Coke, 25.

BRADLEY

V.

FISHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

peaching the verity of their records, except before the king
himself, and it was observed that if they were required to
answer otherwise, it would "tend to the scandal and sub-,
version of all justice, and those who are the most sincere,
would not be free from continual calumniations."
The truth of this latter observation is manifest to all persons having much experience with judicial proceedings in
the superior courts. Controversies involving not merely
great pecuniary interests, but the liberty and character of
the parties, and consequently exciting the deepest feelings,
are being constantly determined in those courts, in which
there is great conflict in the evidence and great doubt as to
the law which should govern their decision. It is this class
of cases which impose upon the jtidge the severest labor, and
often create in his mind a painful sense of responsibility.
Yet it is precisely in this class of cases that the losing party
feels most keenly the decision against him, and most readily
accepts anything but the soundness of the decision in explanation of the action of the judge. Just in proportion to
the strength of his convictions of the correctness of his own
view of the case is he apt to complain of the judgment
against him, and from complaints of the judgment to pass
to the ascription of improper motives to the judge. When
the controversy involves questions affecting large amounts
of property or relates to a matter of general public concern,
or touches the interests of numerous parties, the disappointment occasioned by an adverse decision, often finds vent in
imputations of this character, and from the imperfection of
human nature this is hardly a subject of wonder. If civil
actions could be maintained in such cases against the judge,
because the losing party should see fit to allege in his complaint that the acts of the judge were done with partiality,
or maliciously, or corruptly, the protection essential to judicial independence would be entirely swept away. Few
persons sufficiently irritated to institute an action against a
judge for his judicial acts would hesitate to ascribe any
character to the acts which would be essential to the maintenance of the action.

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY

v.

FISHER.

Opinion of the court.

If upon such allegations a judge could be compelled to
answer in a civil action for his judicial acts, not only would
his office be degraded and his usefulness destroyed, but he
would be subjected for his protection to the necessity of
preserving a complete record of all the evidence produced
before him in every litigated case, and of the authorities
cited and arguments presented, in order that he might be
able to show to the judge before whom he might be summoned by the losing party-and that judge perhaps one of
an inferior jurisdiction-that he had decided as he did with
judicial integrity; and. the second judge would be subjected
to a similar burden, as he in his turn might also be held
amenable by the losing party.
Some just observations on this head by the late Chief
Justice Shaw, will be found in Pratt v. Gardner,* and the
point here was adjudged in the recent case of Pr-ay v. Blackburn,t by the Queen's Bench of England. One of thejudges
of that bench was sued for a judicial act, and on demurrer
one of the objections taken to the declaration was, that it
was bad in not alleging malice. Judgment on the demurrer
having passed for the defendant, the plaintiff applied for
leave to amend his declaration by introducing an allegation
of malice and corruption; but Mr. Justice Compton replied:
"It is a principle of our law that no action will lie against a
judge of one of the superior courts for a judicial act, though
it be alleged to have been done maliciously and corruptly;
therefore the proposed allegation would not make the declaration good. The public are deeply interested in this rule,
which indeed exists for their benefit, and was established in
order to secure the independence of the judges, and prevent
them being harassed by vexatious actions ;"--and the leave
was refused.T
t 3 Best & Smith, 576.
2 Cushing, 68.
In Scott v. Stansfield (3 Law Reports, Exchequer, 220), a judge of a
county court was sued for slander, and he put in a plea that the words complained of were spoken by him in his capacity as such judge, while sitting
in his court, and trying a cause in which the plaintiff was defendant. To
this plea a replication was filed, that the .words were spoken falsely and ma-

BRADLEY v. FISHER.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

In this country the judges of the superior courts of record
are only responsible to the people, or the authorities constituted by the people, from whom they receive their commissions, for the manner in which they discharge the great
trusts of their office. If in the exercise of the powers with
which they are clothed as ministers of justice, they act with
partiality, or maliciously, or corruptly, or arbitrarily, or oppressively, they may be called to an account by impeachment
and suspended or removed from office. In some States they
may be thus suspended or removed without impeachment,
by a vote of the two houses of the legislature.
In the case of Randall v. Brigharn,* decided by this court,
at the December Term of 1868, we had occasion to consider
at some length the liability of judicial officers to answer in
a civil action for their judicial acts. In that case the plainliciously, and without any reasonable, probable, or justifiable cause, and
without any foundation whatever, and not bona fide in the discharge of the
defendant's duty as judge, and were wholly irrelevant to the matter before
him. To the replication the defendant demurred; and the Court of Exchequer
held the demurrer well taken. " I am of opinion," said the Chief Baron,
" that our judgment must be for the defendant. The question raised upon
this record is wvhether an action ismaintainable against the judge of a county
court, which is a court of record, for words spoken by him in his judicial
character, and in the exercise of his functions as judge in the court over
which he presides, where such words would as against an ordinary individual constitute a cause of action, and where they are alleged to have been
spoken maliciously and without probable cause, and to have been irrelevant
to the matter before him. The question arises, perhaps, for the first time,
with reference to a county court.judge, but a series of decisions uniformly
to the same effect, extending from the time of Lord Coke to the present
time, establish the general proposition that no action will lie against a judge
for any acts done or words spoken in his judicial capacity in a court of jus.tice. This doctrine has been applied not only to the superior courts, but to
the court of a coroner, and to a court martial, which is not a court of record.
It is essential in all courts that the judges who are appointed to admini-ter
the law should be permitted to administer it under the protection of the law,
independently and freely, without favor and without fear. This provisi,,n
of the law is not for the protection or benefit of a malieixasor crruptjudge,but
.for the benefit of the public, whose interest it is that the judges should be at
liberty to exercise their.functions with independence, and without fear of consequences."

47 'Wallace, 523.

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FiHER.
Opinion of the court.

tiff had been removed by the defendant, who was one of the
justices of the Superior Court of Massachusetts, from the
bar of that State, and the action was brought for such removal, which was alleged in the declaration to have been made
without lawful authority, and wantonly, arbitrarily, and oppressively. In considering the questions presented the court
observed that it was a general principle, applicable to all
judicial officers, that they were not liable to a civil action
for any judicial act done by them within their jurisdiction;
that with reference to judges of limited and inferior authority it had been held that they were protected only when
they acted within their jurisdi6tion; that if this were the
case with respect to them, no such limitation existed with
respect to judges of superior or general authority; that they
were not liable in civil actions for their judicial acts, even
when such acts were in excess of their jurisdiction, "unless,
perhaps, when the acts in excess of jurisdiction are done
maliciously or corruptly." The qualifying words were inserted upon the suggestion that the previous language laid
down the doctrine of judicial exemption from liability to
civil actions in terms broader than was necessary for the
case under consideration, and that if the language remained
unqualified it would require an explanation of some apparently conflicting adjudications found in the reports. They
were not intended as an expression of opinion that in the
cases supposed such liability would exist, but to avoid the
expression of a contrary doctrine.
In the present case we have looked into the authorities
and are clear, from them, as well as from the principle on
which any exemption is maintained, that the qualifying
words used were not necessary to a correct statement of the
law, and that judges of courts of superior or general jurisdiction are not liable to civil actions for their judicial acts,
even when such acts are in excess of their jurisdiction, and
are alleged to have been done maliciously or corruptly. A
distinction must be here observed between excess'of jurisdiction and the clear absence of all jurisdiction over the
subject-matter. Where there is clearly no jurisdiction over

BRADLEY V. FiSHER.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

the subject-matter any authority exercised is a usurped authority, and for the exercise of such authority, when the
want of jurisdiction is known to the judge, no excuse is permissible. But where jurisdiction over the subject-matter is
invested by law in the judge, or in the court which he holds,
the manner and extent in which the jurisdiction shall be exercised are generally as much questions for his determination
as any other questions involved in the case, although upon
the correctness of his determination in these particulars the
validity of his judgments may depend. Thus, if a probate
court, invested only with authority over wills and the settlement of estates of deceased persons, should proceed to try
parties for public offences, jurisdiction over the subject of
offences being entirely wanting in the court, and this being
necessarily known to its judge, his commission would afford
no protection to him in the exercise of the usurped authority.
But if on the other hand a judge of a criminal court, invested with general criminal jurisdiction over offences committed within a certain district, should bold a. particular act
to be a public offence, which is not by the law made an
offence, and proceed to the arrest and trial of a party
charged with such act, or should sentence a party convicted
to a greater punishment than that authorized by the law
upon its proper construction, no personal liability to civil
action for such acts would attach to the judge, although
those acts would be in excess of his jurisdiction, or of the
jurisdiction of the court held by him, for these are particulars for his judicial consideration, whenever his general jurisdiction over the subject-matter is invoked. Indeed some
of the most difficult and embarrassing questions which a
judicial officer is called upon to consider and determine
relate to his jurisdiction, or that of the court held by him,
or the manner in which the jurisdiction shall be exercised.
And the same principle of exemption from liability which
obtains for errors committed in the ordinary prosecution of
a suit where there is jurisdiction of both subject and person,
applies in cases of this kind, and for the same reasons.
The distinction here made between acts done in excess

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V.

FISHER.

Opinion of the court.

of jurisdiction and acts where no jurisdiction whatever over
the subject-matter exists, was taken by the Court of King's
Bench, in Ackerley v. Parldnson.* In that case an action was
brought against the vicar-general of the Bishop of Chester
and his surrogate, who held the consistorial and episcopal
court of the bishop, for excommunicating the plaintiff with
the greater excommunication for contumacy, in not taking
upon himself the administration of an intestate's efects, to
whom the plaintiff was next of kin, the citation issued to
him being void, and having been so adjudged. The question presented was, whether under these circumstances the
action would lie. The citation being void, the plaintiff had
not been legally brought before the court, and the subsequent proceedings were set aside, on appeal, on that ground.
Lord Ellenborough observed that it was his opinion that the
action was not maintainable if the ecclesiastical court had a
general jurisdiction over the subject-matter, although the
citation was a nullity, and said, that "no authority had been
cited to show that the judge would be liable to an action
where be has jurisdiction, but has proceeded erroneously, or,
as it is termed, inverso ordine." Mr. Justice Blanc said there
was "a material distinction between a case where a party
comes to an erroneous conclusion in a matter over which he
hasjurisdiction and a case where he acts wholly withoutjurisdiction ;" and held that where the subject-matter was within
the jurisdiction of the judge, and the conclusion was erroneous, although the party should by reason of the error be entitled to have the conclusion set aside, and to be restored to
his former rights, yet he was not entitled to claim compensation in damages for the injury done by such erroneous
conclusion, as if the court had proceeded without any jurisdiction.t
* 3 Maule & Selwyn, 411.
t Calder v. Halket, decided by the Judicial Committee of the Privy
Council (3 Moore's Privy Council Rep. 28), goes to the extent of holding
that an action will not lie even against a judge of an inferior court of limited jurisdiction, for his judicial acts, when acting without jurisdiction,
unless he knew or had the means of knowing of the defect ofjurisdiction,
and that it lies upon the plaintiff in every such case to prove that fact.
23
voL. xII.

BRADLEY V.

FISHER.

ESup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The exemption of judges of the superior courts of record
from liability to civil suit for their judicial acts existing
when there is jurisdiction of the subject-matter, though
irregularity and error attend the exercise of the jurisdiction,
the exemption cannot be affected by any consideration of
the motives with which the acts are done. The allegation
of malicious or corrupt motives could always be made, and
if the motives could be inquired into judges would be subjected to the same vexatious litigation upon such allegations, whether the motives had or bad not any real existence.
Against the consequences of their erroneous or irregular
action, from whatever motives proceeding, the law has provided for private parties numerous remedies, and to those
remedies they must, in such cases, resort. But for malice
or corruption in their action whilst exercising their judicial
functions within the general scope of their jurisdiction, the
judges of these courts can only be reached by public.prosecution in the form of impeachment, or in such other form
as may be specially prescribed.
If, now, we apply the principle thus stated, the question
presented in this case is one of easy solution. The Criminal
Court of the District, as a court of general criminal jurisdiction, possessed the power to strike the name of the plaintiff from its rolls as a practicing attorney. This power of
removal from the bar is possessed by all courts which have
authority to admit attorneys to practice. It is a power
which should only be exercised for the most weighty reasons, such as would render the continuance of the attorney
in practice incompatible with a proper respect of the court
for itself, or a proper regard for the integrity of the profession. And, except where matters occurring in open court,
in presence of thejudges, constitute the grounds of its action,
the power of the court should never be exercised without
notice to the offending party of the grounds of complaint
against him, and affording him ample opportunity of explanation and defence. This is a rule of natural justice, and
is as applicable to cases where a proceeding is taken to
reach the right of an attorney to practice his profession as

:Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY

V. FISHER.

Opinion of the court.

it is when the proceeding is taken to reach his real or personal property. And even where the matters constituting
th6 grounds of complaint have occurred in open court, under
the personal observation of the judges, the attorney should
ordinarily be heard before the order of removal is made, for
those matters may not be inconsistent with the absence of
improper motives on his part, or may be susceptible of such
explanation as would mitigate their offensive character, or
he may be ready to make all proper reparation and apology.
Admission as an attorney is not obtained without years of
labor and study. The office which the party thus acquires
is one of value, and often becomes the source of great honor
and emolument to its possessor. To most persons who enter
the profession, it is the means of support to themselves and
their families. To deprive one of an office of this character
would often be to decree poverty to himself and destitution
to his family. A removal from the bar should therefore
never be decreed where any punishment less severe-such
as reprimand, temporary suspension, or fine-would accomplish the end desired.
But on the other hand the obligation which attorneys impliedly assume, if they do not by express declaration take
upon themselves, when they are admitted to the bar, is not
merely to be obedient to the Constitution and laws, but to
maintain at all times the respect due to courts of justice and
judicial officers. This obligation is not discharged by merely
observing the rules of courteous demeanor in open court, but
it includes abstaining out of court from all insulting language
and offensive conduct toward the judges personally for their
judicial acts. "In matters collateral to official duty," said
Chief Justice Gibson in the case of Austin and others, "the
judge is on a level with the members of the bar as he is
with his fellow-citizens, his title to distinction and respect
resting on no other foundation than his virtues and qualities
as a man. But it is nevertheless evident that professional
fidelity may be violated by acts which fall without the lines
of professional functions, and which may have been performed out of the pale of the courL Such would be the

BRADLEY V.

FISHER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

consequences of beating or insulting a judge in the street
for a judgment in court. Ko one would pretend that an
attempt to control the deliberation of the bench, by the apprehension of violence, and subject the judges to the power
of those who are, or ought to be, subordinate to them, is
compatible with professional duty, or the judicial independence so indispeusable to the administration of justice.
And an enormity of the sort, practiced but on a single
judge, would be an offence as much against the court,
which is bound to protect all its members, as if it had been
repeated on the person of each of them, because the consequences to suitors and the public would be the same; and
whatever may be thought in such a case of the power to
punish for contempt, there can be no doubt of the existence
of a power to strike the offending attorney from the roll."
The order of removal complained of in this case, recites
that the plaintiff threatened the presiding justice of the
Criminal Court, as he was descending from the bench, with
personal chastisement for alleged conduct of the judge
during the progress of a criminal trial then pending.
The matters thus recited are stated as the grounds for the
exercise of the power possessed by the court to strike the
name of the plaintiff from the roll of attorneys practicing
therein. It is not necessary for us to determine in this case
whether under any circumstances the verity of this record
can be impeached. It is sufficient to observe that it cannot
be impeached in this action or in any civil action against
the defendant. And if the matters recited are taken as true
there was ample ground for the action of the court. A
greater indignity could hardly be offered to a judge than to
threaten him with personal chastisement for his conduct on
the trial of a cause. A judge who should pass over in silence
an offence of such gravity would soon find himself a subject
of pity rather than of respect.
The Criminal Court of the District erred in not citing the
plaintiff, before making the order striking his name from
the roll of its attorneys, to show cause why such order should
not be made for the offensive language and conduct stated,

Dec. 1871.]

BRADLEY V. FISHER.
Davis and Clifford, JJ., dissenting.

and affording him opportunity for explanation, or defence,
or apology. But this erroneous manner in which its jurisdiction was exercised, however it may have affected the
.validity of the act, did not make the act any less a judicial
.act; nor did it render the defendant liable to answer in
damages for it at the suit of the plaintiff, as though the
court had proceeded without having any jurisdiction whatever over its attorneys.
We find no error in the rulings of the court below, and
its judgment must, therefore, be affirmed, .and it is so
ordered.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
CLIFFORD, dissenting.
I agree that judicial officers are exempt from responsibility in a civil action for all their judicial acts in respect to
matters of controversy within their jurisdiction. I agree,
further, that judges of superior or general authority are
equally exempt from liability, even when they have exceeded
their jurisdiction, unless the acts complained of were done
maliciously or corruptly. But I dissent from the rule laid
down by the majority of the court, that a judge is exempt
fi'om liability in a case like the present, where it is alleged
not only that his proceeding was in excess of jurisdiction,
but that he acted maliciously and corruptly. If he did so,
he is, in my opinion, subject to suit the same as a private
person would be under like circumstances.
I also dissent from the opinion of the majority of the court
for the reason that it discusses the merits of the controversy,
which, in the state of the record, I do not consider open for
examination.

