Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. WORMER.

Statement of the case.

stolen, while the defence set up here is robbery. But that
can make no difference, unless it be held that the receiver
is a mere bailee. If, as we have seen, his liability is to be
measured by his bond, and that binds him to pay the money,
then the cause which renders it impossible for him to pay is
of no importance, for he has assumed the risk of it.
There is nothing in the second error assigned. Though
under the acts of Congress of August 6th, 1846,* and the
amendatory act of March 3d, 1857,t receivers are required
to pay when required by the Secretary of the Treasury, there
were general orders made for all receivers, requiring payments to be made at stated times, which were in existence
when this receiver's bond was given. The declaration avers
a request, and this is enough after verdict.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See infra, p. 56, Bevans, Receiver, v. United States.]

UNITED STATES V. WORMER.
The United States contracted, during the war to suppress the Rebellion,
with a dealer in horses for a large number of cavalry horses; he to be
paid on the completion of the contract, should Congress make an appropriation for that purpose. After the contract had been made, the
government issued instructions which were better calculated to protect
it against frauds than previous ones had been; and among the regulations was one that the horses should be placed in the inspection yard
twenty-four hours before inspecting them, and another that the person
appointed as inspector should brand with the letter R, on the shoulder,
all horses ,manifestly intended as a fraud on thegovernment, because
of incurable disease or any purposely concealed defect." The contractor
threw up his contract and claimed damages, which the Court of Claims
allowed him, to the extent which it deemed would make him whole.
This court reversed the judgment and ordered a dismissal of the contractor's claim; it holding that the new regulations were not unreasonable.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The claimant demanded $15,000 from the government by
way of damages for breach of contract. The principal facts
* 9 Star. at :Large, 59,

6.

t11 Id. 249.

UNITED STATES V. WORMER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

were that on the 26th day of February, 1864, he entered
ito a written agreement with the chief quartermaster of the
Cavalry Bureau to deliver at the government stables in St.
Charles, Illinois, by or before the 26th of March, 1200 cavalry horses, sound, and of certain specified ages, height, and
quality, and on delivery to be examined and inspected without unnecessary delay by a person or persons to be appointed
by the government. Rejected horses were to be removed
by the contractor within one day after receiving notice of
their rejection. Payment was to be made on completion
of the contract, should Congress have made an appropriation for that purpose, or as soon thereafter as funds might
be received. Instructions for inspectors of cavalry horses
were issued a few days after the date of the contract, which
required, amongst other things, that horses proposed for
sale to the government should be placed in the inspection
yard at least twenty-four hours before inspectin them; and none
but the inspector and his assistants were to be allowed to
enter the yard or to handle the horses until the inspection
wa completed. It was also provided that all horses which
were mandfestly intended as a fraud upon the government,
because of incurable disease, or any purposely concealed
defect, should be branded on the left shoulder with the letter R.
Horses rejected for being under age, in poor condition, or
injured by transportation, &c., were to be lightly branded
on the front part of the fore hoof with the letter fR. A large
number of other directions were given to inspectors, but
these were the principal ones complained of. The claimant
applied to have these rules modified or suspended in his
case, as not having been promulgated when he made his
contract; but his application was refused. He thereibre
threw up his contract, and did not purchase any horses; but
alleged that he sustained damages by not being allowed to
perform his contract untrammelled by the new regulations.
The Court of Claims found that the regulations materially changed and modified the contract, by throwing upon
the claimant, in its perlbrmance, increased delay, greater
expense, and largely augmented risk; and, therefore, they

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V.

WORMER.

Argument for the contractor.

gave judgment in his favor for such damages as would make
him whole, which they estimated at $9000. The United
States appealed.
Mr. B. H. .Bristow, Solicitor- General, and Mr. C. H. Bill,
Assistant Attorney-General,for the United States:
Covenants which might be implied in a contract between
individuals will not be in a contract made by the government, where the only express agreement is dependent on
the fact of an appropriation.*
But, independently of this, no particular rules of inspection were referred to or adopted in this contract, and the
only question is were the rules actually prescribed unreasonably severe, reference being had to the fact that we were
carrying on a mighty war, that the number of horses to be
bought by the government was immense, and that the
claimant was a public contractor; one of a class continually
practicing frauds on the government. We think that they
were not.
Messrs. il7. H. Carpenter,.H. E. Totten, and I .Harris,contra:
Governments are bound to perfect faith in their dealings,
as much as are individuals; and, if possible, more so; for
remedies against them are less complete than against individuals.
Now, we say, when the rules in force at the time that the
contract was made did not require the horses to be impounded for twenty-four hours before any inspection began,
and did not stipulate that horses which, in the ophion of any
person appointed as inspector by the chief of the Cavalry -Bureau,
were offered with manifest intention to defraud, should be
branded,-that the government had not a right to require
that they should be impounded twenty-four hours before the
inspection began, and should be branded and so rendered
utterly unsalable whenever such deputy inspector pleased
* Churchward v. The Queen, Law Reports, 1 Q. B. 178, 195, et seg.

UNITED STATES V.

WORMER.

[Slip. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to fancy a fraudulent purpose; or to say that he fancied it,
or even without saying anything, to act as if he knew the
fact. The government had the right to keep the horses any
length of time for the act of inspection; they had a right to
make the inspection the niost rigid possible, and to reject
if dissatisfied. But they had no right, after the contract
made without such a provision, to instruct their subordinates
to punish even the fraudulent presentation of a horse by
permanently mutilating and disfiguring him; or to debase
the value of the claimant's property by branding it when it
was rejected for common defects involving no fraud.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
We think that the Court of Claims erred in its finding and
judgment in this case. The government clearly had the
right to prescribe regulations for the inspection of horses,
and there was great need of strictness in this regard, for
frauds were constantly perpetrated. We see nothing unreasonable in the regulations complained of. It is well
known that horses may be prepared and fixed up to appear
bright and smart for a few hours, and it was altogether reasonable that they should be placed in the government yard
for the period required, and that no person interested in
them should be permitted to manipulate them whilst under
inspection. The branding was also a proper and necessary
precaution to prevent the same horses being presented a
second time after condemnation. The branding on the foot
was of slight importance, and the brand on the shoulder was
not to be applied except in cases of absolute fraud. A person guilty of fraud would have no right to complain of the
regulation being carried into effect.
As the government had the right to prescribe all proper
and reasonable regulations on the subject, and as the regulations prescribed do not seem to have been unreasonable,
the claimant cannot complain. If he chose, under these
circumstances, to fling up his contract, he must be content to
suffer any incidental damage which he may have incurred

Low v. AusTIN.

Dec. 1871.]

Statement of the case.

in making preparations for its performance. It was a damage voluntarily sustained, and the maxim, volenti non fit injuria, applies to the case.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the court below directed to
DISMISS THE PETITION.

Low ET AL. v. AUSTIN.
1. Goods imported from a foreign country, upon which the duties and
charges at the custom-house have been paid, are not subject to State
taxation whilst remaining in the original cases, unbroken and unsold,
in the hands of the importer, whether the tax be imposed upon the goods
as imports, or upon the goods as part of the general property of the citizens of the State, which is subjected to an ad valorem tax.
2. Goods imported do not lose their character as imports, and become incorporated into the mass of property of the State until they have passed
from the control of the importer, or been broken up by him from their
original cases.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of California.

The statutes of California, in force in 1868, provided that
"all property of every kind, name, and nature whatsoever
within the State" (with certain exceptions), should be subject to taxation according to its value. In 1868, and for
several years before, and at the time of commencing this
action, Low and others were importing, shipping, and commission merchants in the city of San Francisco, California.
In 1868 they received on consignment from parties in France,
certaihi champagne wines upon which they paid the duties
and charges of the custom-house. They then stored the
wines in their warehouse in San Francisco, in the original
cases in which the wines were imported, where they remained for sale. Whilst in this condition they were assessed
as the property of the said Low and others, for State, city,
and county taxes, under the general revenue law of California above mentioned. Low and the others refused to

