Dec. 1871.]

BOYDEN ?. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the case.

tect goods from sale by execution. The owner has still an
interest, or equity of redemption in them, which is subject
to sale; and a purchaser at an execution sale would be entitled to rddeem the goods from the deed of trust by paying
the debt secured thereby. When the law imposes the lien
only upon such goods of the tenant upon the premises as are
subject to execution, it means to exclude goods which are exempt from execution by some gener.l or special law, such
as those which a man is entitled to. retain, against all executions, for the use of his family or the practice of his trade.
JUDGMENT AF.FiRmED.

BOYDEN ET AL. V. UNITED STATES.
1. A receiver of public moneys of the United States does not stand in the
position of an ordinary bailee; he is bound to higher responsibility.
Upon a suit, therefore, on a bond "for the faithful discharge of his
trust," such a receiver cannot discharge himself by showing that he was
suddenly beset in his office, thrown down, bound, gagged, and that
against all the defence he could make the money was violently and
without his fault taken from him.
2. Though statutes oblige receivers to pay over when required by the Secretary of the Treasury, a declaration, stating that the receiver had been
often requested to pay is enough after verdict, there having been general
regulations in force at the time the bond here sued on was given, requiring receivers to pay at stated times.

to the Circuit Court for the District of Wisconsin.
The United States sued Boyden and his sureties on his
official bond as receiver of public moneys, for the district of
lands subject to sale at Eau Claire, in the State of Wisconsin. The bond was given pursuant to the 6th section of the
act of May 10th, 1800.* The section enacts:
IN error

"The receiver of public moneys shall, before he enters upon
the duties of his office, give bond with approved security for the
faithful discharge of his trust."
* 2 Stat. at Large, 7M.
VOL. Xii.

2

BOYDEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This bond -,,as conditioned, that if the said Boyden truly
and faithfully executed and discharged all the duties of his
said office according to law, then the obligation should be
void. The breach alleged was, that Boyden had received as
receiver $5088, of the moneys of the United States, which
lie had not paid over to the United States, "although often
requested so to do."
The defendants pleaded as one plea, that Boyden had been
'violently robbed of the said sum of money; and under a
notice that they would give in such evidence offered upon
the trial to prove that, on the 23d of December, 1859, at
Eau Claire, in the State of Wisconsin, while in the land
office of the United States for that land district, he the said
Boyden, then and there being the receiver of public moneys
for said district, and then and there being in the discharge
of the duties of his office as such receiver, was suddenly
beset by some person or persons to him unknown, and
thrown down, and against all defence that he could make,
was gagged and hound, and the moneys described in the
complaint violently, and without his fault, taken from him and
carried away.
To the introduction of this evidence the United States
objected, upon the ground that the facts as offered to be
proved constituted no defence. The court sustained the
objection, and the defendants excepted.
Judgment having been given fbr the United States, the
defendant brought the case here.
The assignments of error were:
1. That the evidence offered was improperly rejected.
2. That the declaration did not state a cause of action.
This second assignment being founded on the fact that an
act of August 6th, 1846,* requires all receivers of public
moneys to keep in their possession all of the moneys by
them received, until the same is ordered by the proper department or cffzcet of the government to be transferred or paid out;
and that the amendatory act of March 3d, 1857,-[ requires
* 9 Stat. at Large, 59,

6.

- 11 Id. 249,

3.

Dec. 1871.]

BOYDEN V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the receiver.

persons having moneys of the United States in their hands,
to pay them to the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer, or
public depositary of the United States, when required by the
Secretary of the Treasury, or any other department.
The case was twice argued.
Messrs. M. ff. Carpenter and 11. i. ,Cothren,for the plaintiff in error: '
I. The sureties contract for such capacity and fidelity as
man may possess, and as may be suitable for the employment
of their principal. The duty of the principal is measured by
physical possibility. Their liability is no greater. They do
not undertake that an earthquake shall not swallow up the
property of the government; nor that the public enemy, or
a robber shall not, despite all resistance that can be made
by the custodian, seize, and carry away the. funds of the
government. At the common law, an officer was not responsible for loss of public or private funds, except upon
the ground of negligence or default. This is old law, settled
in Lane v. Cotton, r~ported by Lord Raymond,* and in Whitfield v. Le .De Spencer, reported in Oow.per.t The principle
is adopted in our own country, as is seen by the case of the
Supervisors of Albany v. Dorr et al.,t where it was held by
the Supreme Court of New York, that a "public officer
intrusted with the receipt and disbursement of public funds,
is not responsible for money stolen from his office, where
there is no imputation of negligence or other default on his
part." Nelson, 0. J., in giving the opinion, places emphasis
upon the condition of the bond being for the faithful execution of the duties of his office, find says that this condition
recognizes the common law rule. The case was affirmed by
the Court of Errors.ยง The later case of Muzzy, Supervisor,
v. Shattuck,j in the same State, which might appearto conflict
with this decision, was placed upon the construction of a
statute, which was peculiar in its provisions, and, in the
* Page 646.

7 Hill, 583.

t Page 754.
I1 Denio, 233.

1 25 Wendell, 440.

BOYDEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the receiver.

opinion of the court, rendered the collector a debtor for the
amount by him collected, and his sureties guarantorsfor the
payment of the debt. It therefore does not conflict with Supervisors of Albany v. Dorr, nor with the common law rule
as to official liability; but only interprets and gives effect
to a particular statute.
The very terms of the statute of 1800, under which this
bond was given, make the receiver an agent, trustee, or
bailee. Persons occupying such relations are only responsible for the same kind of negligence that bailees are liable
for; and certainly the settled rule is, that bailees in general
are not responsible for losses resulting from inevitable accident or irresistible force. It is the government that is to
protect the citizen gainst the public enemy, and the private
robber; and not the citizen who is to protect the government against losses by either.
The United States v. Prescott et al.,* which might be cited
against us, does not apply. In that case the sureties had
undertaken in addition to the common law obligation of
sureties upon an official bond, that the principal
"Has well, truly, and faithfully, and shall well, truly, and
faithfully kee l) safely, without loaning or using, all the public
moneys collected by him, or otherwise at any time placed in his
possession and custody, till the same has been or shall be ordered, by the proper department or officer of the government, to
be transferred or paid out. And when such order fbr transfer
or payment has been, or shall be received, has faithfully and
promptly made, and will faithfully and promptly make the same
as directed."
The conditions of that bond enlarged the obligations of
the contractors beyond the contract in this case. And the
contract may well have been considered a contract of insurance with the government, that all moneys which might
come into the hands of the principal should be paid in the
manner stipulated.
Moreover, the rule was only applied to a case of theft.
* 3 Howard, 587.

Dec. 1871.]

BOYDEN V. 7UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

The defence in this case is quite different. It is robbery.
Public policy may require such vigilance upon the part of
public officers as that theft can never occur. This, upon
principle, would render theft no defence. Not so with robbery. That is a crime against which the utmost vigilance
cannot guard. If the guardian be strong, the robber may
be stronger. If government cannot so administer law as
that its awn property will be safe from the bandit, it ought
to sustain its own losses, unless the citizen has contracted to
make them good.
So too, United Slates v. Dashiel,* was a case of stealing,
while in Uniled States v. Keehler,t a postmaster in North Carolina, who during the rebellion had paid money of the United
States to the rebel authorities, in obedience to a statute of
the rebel States, and to "a regular official order under it,"
was held not discharged, because the case did "not show
the application of any physical force to compel the defendant
to pay." The intimation is, that had force been shown, he
would have been held discharged.
II. The declaration does not state any cause of action.
From the act of 1846, and the amendatory one of 1857,1 it is
obvious, that until some order is niade by the head of the
proper department, no cause of action accrues against a receiver. The declaration here does not state that any order
or requisition was ever made upon Boyden to transfer or pay
over. This being so, there is a judgment without anything
to base it upon.
Messrs. B. .If. Bristow, Solicitor-General, and W. A. Field
and C. 1. -Hill,Assistant Attorneys-General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Were a receiver of public moneys, who has given bond
for the faithful performance of his duties as required by law,
a mere ordinary bailee, it might be that he would be relieved by proof that the money had been destroyed by fire,
or stolen from him, or taken by irresistible force. He would
* 4 Wallace, 182.

t 9 Id. 84.

$. Supvra, pp. 18, 19.

BOYDEN V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

then be bound only to the exercise of ordinary care, even
though a bailee for hire. The contract of bailment implies
no more except in the case of common carriers, and the duty
of a receiver, virtute officii, is to bring to the discharge of hi s
trust that prudence, caution, and attelition which careful
men usually bring to the conduct of their own affairs. Ile
is to pay over the money in his hands as required by law,
but lie is not an insurer. He may, however, make himself
all insurer by express contract, and this he does when he
binds himself in a penal bond to perform the duties of his
office without exception. There is an established difference
between a duty created merely by law and one to which is
added the obligation of an express undertaking. The law
does not compel to impossibilities, but it is a settled rule
that if performance of ai, express engagement becomes iimpossible by reason of anything occurring after the contract
was made, though unforeseen by the contracting party, and
not within his control, he will not be excused.* The rule
has been applied rigidly to bonds of public officers intrusted
with the care of public money. Such bonds have almost
invariably been construed as binding the obligors to pay the
money in their hands when required by law, even though
the money may have been lost without fault on their part.
It is true that in the case of the Supervisorsof Albany v. Dorr
el al.,t in the Supreme Court of New York, it was decided
in a suit on a bond of a county treasurer, conditioned fbr the
payment of all money that should come into his hands as
treasurer, that he was not responsible for the public money
feloniously stolen from his office without any negligence,
want of due care, or other blame or fault whatever on his
part; and this decision was affirmed in the Court of Appeals
of that State, only, however, by an equal division.t It was
rested upon the supposed liability of the officer, virlute offcii,
which it was thought his bond did not increase, and it was
supposed to be sustained by Lane v. Colton,ยง and Wlield v.
*Metcalf on Contracts, 213; The Harriman, 9 Wallace, 161.
t 25 Wendell, 440.
1 7 Hill, 583.
1 i Lord Raymond, 646.
1

Dec. 1871.]

BOYDEN V.

UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

Le -DeSpencer.* It is quite plain, however, that those cases
do not sustain it. They W.ere actions upon the case against
the Postmaster-General, brought not by the government, but
by private individuals to recover damages for the negligent
failure to deliver letters, and the defendants were held not
liable for money stolen, even by their subordinates in office.
At most the Postmaster-General was a mere baiiee, and no
question was raised respecting the effect of a bond to secure
the performance of his duties. But, whatever may have
been the ruling in the case of the Supervisors of Albany v.
-Dorr,it is no longer authority, even in the State of New
York. Muzzy, Supervisor, v. Shattuck et al.,t subsequently
decided, and affirmed unanimously in the Court of Appeals,
is utterly irreconcilable with it, and it has settled the law
otherwise in that State. So in Pennsylvania, in Commonwealth v. Comly,t it was ruled that the responsibility of a
public receiver depends on his contract, when there is one,
and not on the law of bailments. There the condition of
the bond was to account and pay over, and it was held no
defence by the surety of the receiver that the money was
stolen, though it was kept as a prudent man would keep his
own funds. It was said by Chief Justice Gibson, in delivering the judgment of the court, after referring to the fact,
that a lessee is not relieved from payment of rent by destruction of the demised premises by fire, "A' loss by a
visitation of Providence, which no vigilance could prevent,
would-present a more meritorious claim for relief, one would
think, than a loss by robbery, which is always preceded by
a greater or less degree of negligence. A receiver, or his
surety, would come before a chancellor with an ill grace on
that ground, even if there was a power to relieve him. The
keepers of the public moneys, or their sponsors, are to be
held strictly to the contract, for if they were to be let off on
shallow pretences, delinquencies, which are fearfully frequent already, would be incessant. A chancellor is not
bound to control the legal effect of a contract in any case;
*Cowper,

754.

t-1 Denio, 233.

$3 Pennsylvania State, 872.

]BOYDEN V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and his discretion, were he at liberty to use it, would be
influenced by considerations of general policy." State v.
.Harper*is to the same effect. This is precisely the ground
which this court has taken. In The United States v. Prescottt
it was decided that the felonious taking, stealing, and carrying away the public money in the hands of a receiver of
public money, without any fault or negligence on his part,
does not discharge him or his sureties, and that it cannot be
set up as a defence to an action on his official bond. The
condition of the receiver's bond in that case, it is true, was
that the receiver should pay promptly when orders for payment should be received, while the bond in the case before
us is conditioned that Boyden, the receiver, had truly executed and discharged, and should continue truly and faithfully to execute and discharrge all the duties of said office
according to law. But the acts of Congress respecting
receivers made it their duty to pay the public money received by them when ordered by the Treasury Department,
and that department, by its general orders of 1854, required
payment to be made before this suit was brought. No exception was made, no contingency was contemplated. The
bond, therefore, was an absolute obligation to pay the money,
and differing not at all, in legal effect, from the bond in
Prescott's case. A similar ruling was made in United States
v. -Dashiel.1 What the condition of the bond on which suit
was brought in that case was, does not appear in the report,
but it was for the discharge of the paymaster's official duty.
The doctrine of Prescott's case was also recognized in United
States v. Keehler,ยง and it must be considered as settled law.
Applying it to the case now in band, it makes it clear that
the evidence offered by the defendants, tending to prove
that the receiver had been robbed of the public money received by him, was rightly rejected as constituting no defence
to the suit on the receiver's bond. It is true that in Prescott's case the defence set up was that the money had been
* 6 Ohio State, 607.

+ 4 Wallace, 182.

t 8 Howard, 578.
9 Id. 83.

Dec. 1871.]

UNITED STATES V. WORMER.

Statement of the case.

stolen, while the defence set up here is robbery. But that
can make no difference, unless it be held that the receiver
is a mere bailee. If, as we have seen, his liability is to be
measured by his bond, and that binds him to pay the money,
then the cause which renders it impossible for him to pay is
of no importance, for he has assumed the risk of it.
There is nothing in the second error assigned. Though
under the acts of Congress of August 6th, 1846,* and the
amendatory act of March 3d, 1857,t receivers are required
to pay when required by the Secretary of the Treasury, there
were general orders made for all receivers, requiring payments to be made at stated times, which were in existence
when this receiver's bond was given. The declaration avers
a request, and this is enough after verdict.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.
[See infra, p. 56, Bevans, Receiver, v. United States.]

UNITED STATES V. WORMER.
The United States contracted, during the war to suppress the Rebellion,
with a dealer in horses for a large number of cavalry horses; he to be
paid on the completion of the contract, should Congress make an appropriation for that purpose. After the contract had been made, the
government issued instructions which were better calculated to protect
it against frauds than previous ones had been; and among the regulations was one that the horses should be placed in the inspection yard
twenty-four hours before inspecting them, and another that the person
appointed as inspector should brand with the letter R, on the shoulder,
all horses ,manifestly intended as a fraud on thegovernment, because
of incurable disease or any purposely concealed defect." The contractor
threw up his contract and claimed damages, which the Court of Claims
allowed him, to the extent which it deemed would make him whole.
This court reversed the judgment and ordered a dismissal of the contractor's claim; it holding that the new regulations were not unreasonable.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

The claimant demanded $15,000 from the government by
way of damages for breach of contract. The principal facts
* 9 Star. at :Large, 59,

6.

t11 Id. 249.

