154

A!RMSTRONG

V). UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

. Statement of the case.

ARMSTRONG V. UNITED STATES.
1. The President's proclamation of the 25th December, 1868, granting
'unconditionally and without reservation to all and every person who directly
or indirectly participated in the late insurrection or rebellion, a full pardon and
amnesty for the offence of treason against the United States, &c., with restoration of allrights, privileges, and immunities under the Constitution, and the
laws which have been made in pursuance thereof," granted pardon unconditionally and without reserve; and enables persons otherwise entitled
to recover from the United States, the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, to
recover it though no proof be made, as was required by that act, that
the claimant never gave any aid or comfort to the rebellion.
2. The proclamation referred to, is a public act, of which all courts of the
United States are bound to take notice, and to which all courts are bound
to give effect.
APPEAL

from the Court of Claims.

Mrs. Armstrong filed a claim in the court below for the
proceeds of certain cotton under the "Abandoned and Captured Property Act," the provisions of which are quoted in
the preceding, case, page 151. The Court of Claims found
that the cotton was raised by the claimant; that in the latter
part of 1863, or early in 1864, there were on her plantation
one hundred and twenty bales of cotton, which were taken
possession of by the United States military forces and removed to Little Rock, Arkansas; that, prior to July, 1864,
one hundred and two bales of this cotton were in the hands
of the treasury agents, and were taken and used by the
military forces in the works of defence around the city of
Little Rock; that sixty bales, when taken out of the defences, were identified as belonging to the claimant; and
with other cotton identified as belonging to other parties,
and one hundred and seventeen sacks of loose cotton which
came out of the fortifications and not identified, were shipped
to the treasury agent at Cincinnati, sold, and the proceeds
paid into the treasury. The claimant was proved to have
given no active aid to the rebellion, except that on the approach of the Union army she fled south with thirty or forty
of her slaves to avoid emancipation. This was in Septem-

Dec. 1871.]

ARMSTRONG V. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

ber, 1863. Judgment was rendered against her on the 4th
of April, 1870, and an appeal taken to this court.
31r. B. 3. Corwine, for the appellant; Mr. B. I Bristow,
contra; the argument bding directed chiefly to the point of
Mrs. Armstrong's loyalty, and as to how far her going south
with her slaves to avoid the emancipation of them, was
proof of want of it.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
The "Abandoned and Captured Property Act" provides
for the restoration of the proceeds of property on proof that
the claimant has never given any aid or comfort to the present rebellion. The Court of Claims seem to have thought that
going south with her slaves was evidence that she did give
aid or comfort to the rebellion. On this point it is not now
necessary that we express an opinion; for the President of
the United States, on the 25th of December, 1868, issued a
proclamation, reciting that "a universal amnesty and pardon
for participation in said rebellin, extended to all who have
borne any part therein, will tend to secure permanent peace,
order, and prosperity throughout the land, and to renew
and fully restore confidence and fraternal feeling among the
whole people, and their respect for, and attachment to, the
National government, designed by its patriotic founders for
the general good;" and granting, "unconditionally, and
without reservation, to all and every person who directly or
indirectly participated in the late insurrection or rebellion,
a full pardon and amnesty for the offence of treason against
the United States, or of adhering to their enemies during
the late civil war, with restoration of all rights, privileges,
and immunities under the Constitution, and the laws which
have been made in pursuance thereof."*
We have recently held, in the case of the United States v.
Kleint that pardon granted upon conditions, blots out the
offence, if proof is made of compliance with the d6ndiflfs;
* 15 Stat. at Large, 711.

t Supr a , p. 142.

PARGOUD V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and that the person so pardoned is entitled to the restoration
of the proceeds of captured and abandoned property, if suit
be brought within "two years after the suppression of the
rebellion."
The proclamation of the 25th of December
granted pardon unconditionally and without reservation.
This was a public act of which all courts of the United
States are bound to take notice, and to which all courts are
bound to give effect. The claim of the petitioner was preferred within two years. The Court of Claims, therefore,
erred in not giving the petitioner the benefit of the proclamation.
Its judgment must be REVERSED, with directions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.
[See the next case.]

PARGOUD V. UNITED STATES.
The President's proclamation of December 25th, 1868, granting pardon and
amnesty unconditionally and without reservation to all who participated, directly or indirectly, in the late rebellion, relieves claimants of
captured and abandoned property from proof of adhesion to the United

States during the late civil war.

It is unnecessary, therefore, in a claim

in the Court of Claims, under that act, to prove such adhesion or per-

sonal pardon for taking part in the rebellion against the United States.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
Pargoud filed a claim in the court below to recover under
the Abandoned and Captured Property Act, the proceeds of
certain cotton. This act, as by reference to its provisions, on
page 151, supra,will be seen, makes "proof that the claimant
had never given aid or comfort to the late rebellion" a prerequisite to recovery. Pargoud's petition, however, averred
no loyalty at all. On the contrary, it set forth in the first
sentence of it "that he was guilty of participating in the rebellion against the United States," adding, however, "that
he had been duly and legally pardoned for such participa-

