BEVANS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

Both contingencies on which an appeal rest bad occurred.
When the first appeal was taken the judgment bad passed
and the decree bad been rendered; all that remained to be
done was to make up the amount,-amerely clerical operation.
Messrs. Goodrich and Wheeler, contra, argued that in view
of the whole case, if either appeal was to be dismissed it
should be the first.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
It is quite true that two appeals are not allowed in the
same case on the same question. We must determine which
one of the two should be dismissed. It may be that the first
appeal was from a decree which might be taken as final, if
the second decree had not been rendered.* But it is obvious that the circuit judge did not regard it as final, and it
was certainly defective. The second decree was rendered,
not by inadvertence, but in view of the rendition of the first
decree; and, in order to settle the practice in the Circuit
Court for the Southern District of New York, that a decree
of affirmance, without taxation of costs and without specifying the sum for which it is rendered, is not to be regarded
as a final decree.
We think this the better practice, and therefore hold that
the first appeal must be
DIsilISSED AS IRREGULAR.

BEVANS, RECEIVER,

V.

UNITED STATES.

1. 'Where a receiver of public moneys has such moneys in his hands, which
would not have been in his hands at all, if he had paid them over
with the promptness that the acts of Congress and the Treasury Regulations made in pursuance of them, prescribing the duties of receivers, in
this respect made it his duty to do, and which therefore-inasmuch as
* Rubber Company v. Goodyear, 6 Wallace,
Howard, 290.

153; Silsby v. Foote, 20

Dec. 1871.]

BEVANS V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.
the duties of receivers under their official bonds are defined by those acts
and Treasury Regulations-it was also his duty under his official bond
to do,-evidence that the moneys were forcibly taken from him by the
agents of the so-called "Confederate States," usurping the authority of
the rightful government, and compelling obedience to itself exclusively
throughout the State in which the receiver was, held to have been rightly
refused in a suit by the government on the official bond of such receiver, as short of meeting the necessity of the case; it having been
owing to the default of the receiver in not paying over promptly and ut
the right times, that the moneys were exposed to seizure, at all, by the
rebel usurping government.
2. Where there are no disputed facts in the case, the court may properly tell
the jury in an absolute form how they should find.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Arkansas; the case being this:
Prior to February, 1860, Bevans had been appointed a
receiver of public money for the district of lands, subject
to sale at Balesville, Arkansas, and gave bond conditioned
that he "should have truly and faithfully executed and discharged, and should continue truly and faithfully to execute
and discharge all the duties of the said office."
These duties are defined by acts of Congress and by
Treasury Regulations enacted in pursuance of them.
The 6th section of the act of May 10th, 1800, m ade it the
duty of all such receivers to transmit to the Secretary of the
Treasury accounts of all public moneys by them received,
within thirty days in case of public sale, and quarterly in
case of private sales, and to transmit the money received by
them within three months after its receipt. The act of
August 6th, 1846,* however, and subsequent acts made it
the duty of such receiverst "to keep safely, without loaning, using, depositing in banks, or exchanging for other
funds than as allowed by the act, all the public money collected by them, or otherwise at any time placed in their possession and custody, till the same is ordered, by the proper
department or officer of the government, to be transferred,
or paid out, and when such orders for transfer, or payment,
are received, faithfully and promptly to make the same as
* 9 Star. at :Large, 59.

t Section 6.

BEVANS V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

directed." Following these acts were the Treasury Regulations of July 18th, 1854 (in force when this receiver was in
office), which required all receivers to deposit in the treasury
all public money in their hands, as follows:
1. When their weekly receipts exceed $10,000, they were
required to deposit at the termination of each week.
2. When the weekly receipts were less than $10,000, but
exceeded $5000, they were required to deposit at the close
of each period of two weeks.
3. When the monthly receipts were more than $2000, and
less than $20,000, they were required to deposit at the end
of each mouth.
4. When the monthly receipts were less than $2000, they
were required to deposit at the end of each quarter.
In this state of things the United States, on the 27th September, 1867, brought suit against Bevans, and his sureties
on his official bond, as above mentioned, conditioned for the
faithful performance of all the duties of the office of receiver
according to law. The breaches assigned were that the
principal obligor had failed to account for the money he had
received, in his official capacity, on behalf of the United
States, from the time of his appointment, January 17th, 1860,
to the 30th of April, 1861, and that he had failed to pay over
such money, although required by law to account for the
same and to pay it over. At the trial the plaintiffs gave in
evidence duly certified transcripts of official settlements of
the receiver's accounts, from which it appeared that he had
in hand of public money, received by him between the 17th
of January, 1860, and the 31st of March, 1861, the sum of
$19,737.26; that on the 31st day of March, 1860, he held
an unpaid balance of $4116.05; that on the 30th of June,
1860, the balance against him was $6535.26; on the 30th of
September, 1860, $8346.34; on the 31st of December, 1860,
$19,662.66; and on the 30th of April, 1861, $19,737.26, the
unpaid balances at the end of each quarter being carried
forward into the account of the next succeeding quarter.
No attempt was made to impeach the correctness of these
official settlements; but the defendants offered to prove that

Dec. 1871.]

BEVANS V. UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

on the 6th day of May, 1861, Bevans, the receiver, was residing at Independence, in the State of Arkansas; that on
that day the people of the State, legally assembled in convention, passed "a secession ordinance," whereby the State
of Arkansas was withdrawn from the Union; that such ordinance became of force and effect, and was binding on all the
citizens of the State; that the convention then passed an
ordinance prohibiting all officers of the United States from
paying out any money of the United States in their hands,
and requiring them to hold such money subject to the further
order of the convention, and that immediately after the passage of this second ordinance he was notified thereof before
he had time to account to the United States, or to renit the
money in his hands as receiver. In connection with this
the defendants further offered to prove that subsequently
the State of Arkansas was attached to what was called the
"Southern Confederacy," and that in order to insure performance of her duties as a member of said confederacy, the
convention aforesaid, and the legislature of the State made
provision for seizing, and did actually seize the money in
the hands of the said Bevans, as receiver; that under the
said acts and ordinances he paid to the agents of the State
all the money he had in his possession belonging to the
United States, as he was forced and compelled to do, the
State being organized as a member of the confederacy, she
and the confederacy having armed troops in her territory to
compel him to pay, the acts and ordinances being compulsory, and the agents and officers of the State threatening
that if he declined to pay they would punish him by imprisonment, or otherwise, and that in consequence of such
menaces he did, on the 1st day of January, 1862, pay over
to such agents and officers all the money he had in his hands
as a receiver, which was placed in the treasury of the State
in aid of the war against the United States, at a time when
he could not remit the same to the Treasury Department at
Washington. These facts had been pleaded in bar.
The evidence thus offered by the defendants the Circuit
Court refused to receive, being of opinion that if all the

BEVANS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

facts which it tended to prove were proved, they would not
amount to a defence, and the court accordingly directed the
jury to find for the plaintiffs the amount claimed, in and by
the papers read in evidence by the plaintiffi, viz.: $19,737,
with interest from October 4th, 1861.
Verdict and judgment having gone accordingly for the
United States, Bevans and the sureties brought the case
here; the decision of the court upon the evidence offered,
and which it refused to receive, being the principal error
assigned; the absolute form of the direction to the jury
as to their finding being also a matter excepted to.
The case was twice argued.
llr. A. 1i. Garland, for the plainiff in error, on the first
point went into an able and learned argument, citing various
adjudged cases, to show that where the condition of a bond
became imposssible to be perforied by great overpowering
force and fear, then the obligation was saved.
On the second point he submitted that the direction of the
court to the jury, unqualified as it was, took out of their
hands all that there was for them to do, and was thus erroneous ; that the instruction should have been, " if the jury
believe," &c.

Mr. B. I. 3ristow, Solicitor,-General, and ir. W. A. Field
and Mr (. .11. KHill, Assistant Altorneys-General, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
It is to be observed that the defence attempted in this
case, was not a denial of the receiver's obligation to pay all
the public money in his hands to the United States, according to the condition of his bond and the requirements of
the acts of Congress, nor was it an assertion of performance
of his obligation, but it was setting up an excuse for nonperformance. Was the receiver then in a condition to avail
himself of the excuse which he presented? It may be a
grave question whether the forcible taking of money belonging to the United States from the possession of one or her

Dec. 1871.]

BEVANS V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

officers, or agents lawfully holding it, by a government of
paramount force, which at the time was usurping the authority of the rightful government, and compelling obedience
to itself exclusively throughout a State, would not work a
discharge of such officers or agents, if they were entirely
free from. fault, though they had given bond to pay the
money to the United States. This question has been thoroughly argued, but we do not propose now to consider it,
for its decision is'not necessary to the case. The bond of a
receiver of public money is given to insure the performance
of all his duties, and those duties are defined by the acts of
Congress and by Treasury Regulations made under the acts.
[The learned justice here quoted the acts of Congress and
the Treasury Regulations, in the language already given on
page 58, setting out the duties of receivers of public moneys,
to the performance of which they are bound by their official
bonds, and continued:] In view of the fact that the duties
of this receiver, to the performance of which he was bound
by his bond, were thus prescribed, it is plain that it was
not in consequence of the Arkansas ordinances and acts of
assembly, or in consequence of any action of the usurping
government alone, that the money in the receiver's hands
was not paid to the United States. Hence the evidence
offered by the defendants came short of meeting the case,
for it was the defhult of the receiver that exposed the money
to seizure by the usurping power which for a time excluded
the authority of the government. The condition of the
bond was broken long before the ordinance of secession was
passed. It was the duty of Bevans to pay over the money
in his hands, in large part, more than a year before any obstacle came in the way of his payment. Had he performed
his duty, all of it would have been paid into the treasury by
the 1st of April, 1861. He was, therefore, a defaulter when
the alleged seizure was made, and it was his default which
concurred with the acts of the public enemy, and contributed to, or facilitated, the wrong which was perpetrated,
or, at least, rendered it possible. Since then his bond had
become absolute b7' his failure to perform its conditions,

BEVANS V. T-hITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and since the evidence offered tended to show at most al
excuse for non-performance after May 6tb, 1861, it is manifest that it presented an insufficient defence to the action.
Seeking relief, which in its nature was equitable, as the receiver did, it was incumbent upon him to come with clean
hands, and to place the obligees in the bond in as good a
situation as they would have held had he made no default.
It is not to be overlooked that Bevans was not an ordinary
bailee of the government. Bailee he was undoubtedly, but
by his bond he had insured the safe-keeping and prompt
payment of the public money which came to his hands.
His obligation was, therefore, not less stringent than that of
a common carrier, and in some respects it was greater. In
Un~iled Slates v. Prescott,* it was said by this court: " Public
policy requires that every depositary of public money should
be held to a strict accountability. Not only that he should
exercise the highest degree of vigilance, but that he should
keep safely the moneys which come to his hands. Any
relaxation of this condition would open the door for frauds
which might be practiced with impunity." These observations apply in full force to the present case. It cannot be
allowed that a depositary of public money, who has not only
assumed the common obligations of a bailee, but has given
bond to keep safely the money in his hands, and to pay it
over promptly, as required by law, may, by making a default, throw upon the government the risk of loss of the
money by the intervention of a public enemy. We are,
therefore, of opinion that the evidence offered by the defendants in the court below tended to show no sufficient
defence to the claim of the plaintifEi, and that it was properly rejected.
The objection that the jury was instructed to find for the
plaintiFs the amount claimed by the papers given in evidence (viz., the official settlements), with interest thereon,
is entirely without merit. There was no evidence to impeach
the accounts stated, or to show set-off, release, or payment.
* 8 Howard, 588.

Dec. 1871.]

HALLIBURTON V. UNITED STATES.

63

Statement of the case.

The instruction was, therefore, in accordance with the legal
effect of the evidence, and there were no disputed facts upon
which the jury could pass.
JUDGMENT AFFIR.MED.

The CHIEF JUSTICE and Mr. Justice CLIFFORD dissented from the judgment, because they thought that the
plea in bar set up a valid defence.

NOTE.
At the same time, with the preceding case, was heard
another, in its chief point identical with it, but embracing
also a minor point of evidence. It was the case of
HALLIBURTON, MARSHAL, V. UNITED STATES.

1. The doctrine of the preceding case as to the accountability of the receivers
of public moneys affirmed.
2. Evidence of alleged payments made or of set-off, on a suit on a marshal's
official bond, held rightly excluded under the 4th section of the act of
March 3d, 1797, there having been no evidence that what was excluded
was a claim presented to the acqounting officers of the Treasury, and by
them disallowed; nor it being pretended that the defendants were at
the trial in possession of vouchers not before in their power to procure.

THIS case, like the former, came here on error to the Circuit
Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas.
The action was debt upon a marshal's bond, conditioned for
faithful performance of all the duties of the office of marshal.
The breaches assigned were that on the 1st day of April, 1861,
Halliburton, the marshal, was indebted to the United States in
the sum of $3946.65 for money had and received by him for the
use of the plaintiffs, and upon an account then stated, and br
money which had previously come into his hands as marshal,
which it was his duty to pay over, but which he had converted
to his use. Among other defences setup, the defendants pleaded
the ordinance of secession passed by the convention of Arkansas
on the 6th of May, 1861; the ordinance of the same convention

