OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

SCHENLEY DISTILLERS CORP. ET
STATES Er AL.

326 U. S.
AL.

v. UNITED

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.
No. 560. Decided January 2, 1946.
In order to obtain a determination as to whether it was a "contract
carrier by motor vehicle" as defined by § 203 (a) (15) of Part II
of the Interstate Commerce Act or a "private carrier of property
by motor vehicle" as defined by § 203 (a) (17), one of the appellants applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission for a permit
under § 209 (b) to operate as a "contract carrier." In the proceedings before the Commission, it moved to dismiss its own application on the ground that the proposed operations were not such
as to make it a "contract carrier," introduced no evidence to prove
compliance with § 209 (b), and sought a ruling by the Commission
that it could carry on its operations as a "private carrier" without
obtaining a permit. It contended that it was a "private carrier"
because its operations were to be performed for its parent corporation (which owned all of applicant's stock) and for other corporations owned or controlled by the parent. The Commission ruled
in its report that applicant was a "contract carrier" and not a
"private carrier" and made this report a part of an order denying
the application because of failure to show compliance with § 209
(b). Applicant and its parent corporation sued to set aside the
Commission's order. Held:
1. The parent corporation had no standing to sue, since it did
not apply for a permit and its sole interest in the permit sought by
the applicant was that of a stockholder. P. 435.
2. The parent corporation is adequately represented for the purposes of such a suit by the subsidiary, whose conduct of the litigation it controls. P. 435.
3. It was appropriate for the Commission to treat the filing of
an application under § 209 (b), with a request that it be dismissed
on the ground that it is not required, as a proper method of raising
the issue whether the applicant is subject to the Act. Comell
Steamboat Co. v. United States, 321 U. S. 634, 635, reaffirmed.
P. 436.
4. The Commission's order determining that applicant is subject to the Act is a reviewable order. P. 436.

SCHENLEY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
432

433

Opinion of the Court.

5. Applicant's proposed operations would clearly constitute it
a "contract" rather than a "private" carrier. P. 436.
6. While corporate entities may be disregarded when they are
used to avoid a clear legislative purpose, they will not be disregarded where those in control have deliberately adopted the corporate form in order to secure its advantages and where no violence
to the legislative purpose is done by treating the corporation as a
separate legal person. P. 437.
7. The fact that several corporations are used in carrying on one
business does not relieve them of their several statutory obligations.
P. 437.
61 F. Supp. 981, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment of a district court of three
judges dismissing a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. Charles E. Cotterill for appellants.
Solicitor General McGrath and Mr. J. Stanley Payne

for the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees.
PER CURIAM.

This is an appeal from a judgment of a district court,
three judges sitting, constituted under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, 38 Stat. 220, 28 U. S. C. § 47, dismissing
appellants' petition to set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Appellant Schenley Distilleries
Motor Division, Inc., applied to the commission for a permit, under § 209 (b) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce
Act, 49 U. S. C. § 309 (b), authorizing operation as a
"contract carrier by motor vehicle" of specified commodities in interstate commerce between specified points. At
the outset of the proceedings before the commission, the
appellant moved for dismissal of the application on the
ground that the proposed operations were not such as
to constitute applicant a "contract carrier by motor
vehicle," defined by § 203 (a) (15) of the Act, 49 U. S. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

§ 303 (a) (15), as "any person which, under individual
contracts or agreements, engages in the transportation
(other than transportation referred to in paragraph (14)
and the exception therein) by motor vehicle of passengers or property in interstate or foreign commerce for
compensation."
Applicant contended at the hearing that it was a "private carrier of property by motor vehicle," which is defined by § 203 (a) (17) as "any person not included in the
terms 'common carrier by motor vehicle' or 'contract carrier by motor vehicle', who or which transports in interstate or foreign commerce by motor vehicle property of
which such person is the owner, lessee, or bailee, when
such transportation is for the purpose of sale, lease, rent,
or bailment, or in furtherance of any commercial enterprise."
Applicant introduced no evidence to prove compliance
with the requirements set forth by § 209 (b) for granting
a permit as a "contract carrier" but sought a ruling by the
commission that it could carry on its operations as a "private carrier" without obtaining a permit. Stating that
"the primary reason for filing this application was to secure
a determination as to whether the involved operations
were those. of a contract carrier of property by motor
vehicle or of a private carrier," Division 5 of the commission in its report ruled that the applicant was a "contract carrier" and not a "private carrier." As no evidence
had been introduced to show that the proposed operations
would comply with § 209 (b), Division 5 made its order
denying the application, and made the report a part of
the order. Reconsideration by the full commission was
denied.
This suit to set aside the commission's order was brought
by the applicant, Schenley Distilleries Motor Division,
and by Schenley Distillers Corporation, owner of all the

SCHENLEY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
432

435

Opinion of the Court.

stock of the former. The district court held that it had
jurisdiction to review the order. It dismissed the suit as
to the parent corporation on the ground that it had no
legal interest sufficient to entitle it to maintain suit. The
court held that the commission properly ruled that the
applicant was a "contract carrier," and accordingly dismissed the complaint.
The district court rightly held that the parent corporation had no standing to sue. It did not ask that a
permit be issued to it, and its sole interest in the permit
sought for its co-appellant was that of a stockholder. We
have held that a minority stockholder of a carrier corporation cannot bring suit to set aside a commission order
against the corporation. Pittsburgh & W. Va. R. Co. v.
United States, 281 U. S. 479, 486-488. A parent corporation which by its stock ownership controls its subsidiary,
and which as a party litigant asserts only its stockholder's
derivative rights to have its subsidiary secure the permit,
cf. American Power Co. v. S. E. C., 325 U. S. 385, 389, is
even less aggrieved by the commission's order denying the
permit than would be a minority stockholder. For the
parent is adequately represented for purposes of suit by
the subsidiary whose conduct of the litigation it controls.
We conclude that the character of a stockholder's interest
in this regard is not so altered by the mere facts that it
owns all the stock of the corporation against which the
commission's order is entered and that the parent manages and controls its subsidiary, as to give the stockholder
standing to sue to set aside the commission's order.
As to appellant Schenley Distilleries Motor Division,
Inc., the appellee urges that the judgment should be affirmed on the ground that the appellant made no showing
sufficient to require the issuance of the permit sought by
the application and that thus the commission's order rests
on a controlling ground, i. e., lack of evidence. But there

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

remains the question whether the commission's determination that appellant will be a "contract carrier" is reviewable in the present suit. The commission made its report
a part of its order, and the report denied the relief which
appellant sought, namely, a determination that it was a
"private carrier" entitled to carry on its operations without a permit and without subjecting itself to criminal proceedings. The commission has treated the filing of an
application under § 209 (b) with a request that the application be dismissed on the ground that it is not required,
as a proper method of raising the issue whether the applicant is subject to the Act. Any other construction of
that section would make it necessary for a carrier to take
the risk of operating illegally and incurring criminal and
other penalties in order to secure a determination whether
it is within the permit requirement. We have already
decided that the course followed here was "appropriate,"
and that an order determining that the appellant is within
the permit requirement is a reviewable order. Cornell
Steamboat Co. v. United States, 321 U. S. 634, 635. We
reaffirm that holding.
We think the district court was plainly right in upholding the commission's decision that appellant's proposed
operations would constitute it a "contract" rather than a
"private" carrier. Appellant's contention to the contrary
is based on the fact that its operations were to be performed for its parent and for other corporations owned
or controlled by the parent. Appellant says that the
transportation will be in furtherance of one "commercial
enterprise" within the meaning of § 203 (a) (17). But
that section applies only to the extent to which § 203 (a)
(15) does not, and the evidence supports the commission's
finding that the transportation was to be "for compensation" from appellant's parent and the other corporations
controlled by the parent. Appellant urges that we dis-

SCHENLEY CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
432

437

Opinion of the Court.

regard the separate corporate entities which are to pay
compensation to appellant for the transportation and
treat the corporations controlled by appellant's parent as
one single commercial enterprise. While corporate entities may be disregarded where they axe made the implement for avoiding a clear legislative purpose, they will not
be disregarded where those in control have deliberately
adopted the corporate form in order to secure its advantages and where no violence to the legislative purpose is
done by treating the corporate entity as a separate legal
person. One who has created a corporate arrangement,
chosen as a means of carrying out his business purposes,
does not have the choice of disregarding the corporate
entity in order to avoid the obligations which the statute
lays upon it for the protection of the public.
The fact that several corporations are used in carrying
on one business does not relieve them of their several statutory obligations more than it relieves them of the taxes
severally laid upon them. "If the one business could not
be carried on without two corporations taking part in it,
each must pay, by the plain words of the Act." Edwards
v. Chile Copper Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456. Cf. Gray v.
Powell, 314 U. S. 402, 414; Moline Propertiesv. Commissioner,319 U. S. 436.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

