OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

exercise of the employer's rights of free speech and a free
press, secured by the First Amendment. Cf. Labor Board
v. Virginia Electric & Power Co., 314 U. S. 469; Labor
Board v. Ford Motor Co., 114 F. 2d 905; Labor Board v.
American Tube Bending Co., 134 F. 2d 993; compare
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood,281 U. S. 548,568.
It follows from my view of the case that the Board's
order should be modified by striking from it Paragraph
1 (b) together with the words "and (b)" from Paragraph
2 (b), and as so modified enforced. Accordingly I think
the judgment of the Court of Appeals, enforcing the
Board's order, should be modified in these respects and,
as thus modified, affrmed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join
in this opinion.

MARKHAM, ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, ET AL.
v. CABELL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 76.

Argued October 19, 1945.-Decided December 10, 1945.

1. Section 9 (a) of the Trading with the Enemy Act allows "Any person not an enemy or ally of enemy . . .to whom any debt may be
owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose property or any part
thereof shall have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered,
or paid to the Alien Property Custodian" to sue the Custodian or the
Treasurer of the United States in the federal courts. Section 9 (e)
provides that no debt shall be allowed under § 9 "unless it was
owing to and owned by the claimant prior to October 6, 1917" nor
"unless notice of the claim has been filed, or application therefor
has been made, prior to the date of the enactment of the Settlement
of War Claims Act of 1928." Held:
(a) The Trading with the Enemy Act became effective again
automatically at the outbreak of World War II. P. 407.
The Act was designed to operate not only in World War I but
also, unless repealed or superseded, in any future war. P. 409.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

Opinion of the Court.

(b) The right to sue on a debt, granted by § 9 (a), has not been
wholly withdrawn. P. 412.
(c) The time limitations in § 9 (e) relate to claims against property seized during World War I. P. 412.
(d) Allowance of suit on a debt as prescribed by § 9 (a) is not
inconsistent with the power granted the Executive by the 1941
amendment of § 5 (b) to vest the property of any foreign country
or national thereof and to make of seized property any use which
the national interest in wartime might require. P. 412.
2. Resort to the policy of a law may be had to ameliorate its seeming
harshness or to qualify its apparent absolutes. Holy Trinity Church
v. United States, 143 U. S. 457. P. 409.
3. A less literal reading which effectuates a statute is preferred to a
strict reading which would render it ineffectual. P. 409.
4. Where Congress amends only one section of a law, leaving another
untouched, the normal assumption is that the two were designed
to function as an integrated whole. P. 411.
148 F. 2d 737, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 325

U. S. 847, to review the reversal of a

judgment dismissing the complaint in a suit under the
Trading with the Enemy Act.
Mr. Paul A. Freundargued the cause, and Acting Solicitor GeneralJudson, Assistant Attorney General Wechsler,
Messrs. M. S. Isenbergh and Raoul Berger were on the
brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Hartwell Cabell, with whom Mr. CharltonOgburn
was on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. George Whitefield Betts, Jr. and George Yamaoka filed a brief as amici curiae, urging affirmance.
MR. JUSTIcE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Respondent, an American citizen, brought this suit
against the Alien Property Custodian and the Treasurer
of the United States to recover from the assets of the
Assicurazioni Generali di Trieste e Venezia, an Italian

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

insurance company, the unpaid portion of a claim for legal
services rendered that company. The assets of the company had vested in the Alien Property Custodian in 19421
and the vested assets had been delivered to him. The
suit was sought to be maintained under § 9 (a) of the
Trading with the Enemy Act (40 Stat. 411, as amended
41 Stat. 977, 50 U. S. C. App. § 9 (a)) which allows "Any
person not an enemy or ally of enemy . . . to whom any
debt may be owing from an enemy or ally of enemy whose
property or any part thereof shall have been conveyed,
transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property. Custodian" to sue the Custodian or the Treasurer of
the United States in the federal courts. Petitioners moved
to dismiss on the ground that the claim did not qualify
under § 9 (e) of the Act. Sec. 9 (e), which was added to
the Act in 1920 (41 Stat. 980) and amended in 1928 (45
Stat. 271), provides that no debt shall be allowed under
§ 9 "unless it was owing to and owned by the claimant
prior to October 6, 1917" nor "unless notice of the claim
has been filed, or application therefor has been made,
prior to the date of the enactment of the Settlement of
War Claims Act of 1928." In view of those provisions of
§ 9 (e) the District Court dismissed the complaint. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 148 F. 2d 737. The
case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we
granted because of the public importance of the question
presented.
If § 9 (e) is applicable here, the suit may not be maintained since the debt was not in existence on October 6,
1 See

Vesting Order 218, dated October 7, 1942, 7 'Fed. Reg. 9466;

Vesting Order 468, dated December 9, 1942, 8 Fed. Reg. 1038. For
the establishment of the office of Alien Property Custodian and the
definition of his functions as respects the vesting of alien property,

see Executive Order 9193, dated July 6, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 5205,
amending Executive Order 9095, dated March 11, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg.
1971.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

Opinion of the Court.

1917, nor had notice of the claim been filed or application
therefor been made prior to the date of the enactment
of the Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928. We would
have quite a different case if § 9 (a) and (e) had been
enacted after the outbreak of the recent war. For we may
assume that Congress could set up such barriers as it
chose to the enforcement of the claims of an alien's creditors against the seized property. But the doubt as to
the applicability of § 9 (e) to the present situation arises
because that provision was part of the legislation enacted
after the outbreak of World War I to deal with the claims
against property seized during that period. That legislation was not reenacted when the recent war broke out. It
automatically went into effect again ht that time.2 Hence
the argument that these provisions of § 9 (e) are limited
to claims against property seized during World War I.
Our conclusion is that they are so limited.
In the first place, § 9 (e) disallows recovery "to any
person who is a citizen or subject of any nation which was
associated with the United States in the prosecution of the
war, unless such nation in like case extends reciprocal
rights to citizens of the United States." When it is recalled that § 9 (e) was first added to the Act in 1920, it
seems tolerably clear that the words "was associated with
the United States in the prosecution of the war" refer
to World War I. The use not only of the past tense but
2

As the Circuit Court of Appeals pointed out, that followed from

several circumstances: (a) § 2 (c) defined "the beginning of the war"
to mean "midnight ending the day on which Congress has declared
or shall declare war or the existence of a state of war"; (b) § 302 of
the First War Powers Act, approved December 18, 1941 (55 Stat.
838, 840) assumed that the Trading with the Enemy Act had not been
in force before December 8, 1941, and that it went into effect again
at that time; and (c) § 5 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act was
amended December 18, 1941, by the First War Powers Act without
any mention of the other parts of the earlier Act. 55 Stat. 839.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

also of the concept of "associate" is significant. As Judge
Learned Hand speaking for the Court below said, the word
"associate" was used during World War I "in sedulous
avoidance of any implication" that we had "allies." In
the second place, the time limitations contained in § 9 (e)
point the same way. As the United States says, some sections of the Act were explicitly restricted to situations
growing out of World War I, as, for example, § 3 (d).
But it seems to us that the provisions of § 9 (e) with which
we are now concerned carry almost as plain a hallmark.
For the restriction of suits to debts which were owing to
and owned by the claimant prior to October 6, 1917 and
as respects which a notice of claim had been filed prior
to the date of the enactment of the Settlement of War
Claims Act of 1928 strongly suggests that Congress was
dealing exclusively with World War I claims, not with
claims which might arise in some future war. As of 1920
and 1928 the time limitations written into § 9 (e) had no
other relevancy. The Committee Reports,' accompanying the legislation by which § 9 (e) was added to the law,
while not explicit on the precise point, show that Congress
was concerned solely with the handling of claims which
then existed. There is not the slightest suggestion that
Congress was drafting a statute of limitations likewise applicable to claims which might be asserted in case the
United States at some future time again went to war.
These considerations indicate to us that it would be a
8 See H. Rep. No. 1089, 66th Cong., 2d Sess.; S. Rep. No. 273,
70th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 29; H. Rep. No. 17, 70th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 20. In S. Rep. No. 273, aupra, it was stated: "Under the existing
law a creditor of a person whose property was seized by the Alien
Property Custodian may file a claim and institute proceedings for
the payment of the debt, under certain conditions. Inasmuch as
these claimants have had more than 10 years in which to file their
claims, this provision is amended by subsection (b) of section 12 of
the proposed bill sd as to permit payment only where the claim was
filed prior to the date of the enactment of the bill."

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

Opinion of the Court.

distortion to read § 9 (e) as if Congress in December 1941
decided that the statute of limitations applicable to World
War I claims should likewise be applicable to World War
II claims. If we gave § 9 (e) that broad interpretation,
we would, in the third place, deprive § 9 (a) of all meaning so far as World War II claims were concerned. That
we hesitate to do, for the Act was not only designed to
operate in the first World War; it was also to become
effective at the time of any future war unless repealed or
superseded. Yet the remedy afforded by § 9 (a) would
be quite illusory and ineffective so far as it applies to
World War II claims if § 9 (e) were read literally without regard to its history. It was for this reason particularly that the court below refused "to make a fortress
out of the dictionary" and to read § 9 (e) strictly and
literally. The policy as well as the letter of the law is a
guide to decision. Resort to the policy of a law may be
had to ameliorate its seeming harshness or to qualify its
apparent absolutes as Holy Trinity Church v. United
States, 143 U. S. 457 illustrates. The process of interpretation also misses its high function if a strict reading of
a law results in the emasculation or deletion of a provision
which a less literal reading would preserve.
The United States, however, contends that such a construction of § 9 (e) would gravely interfere with the efficient administration of alien property controls in accordance with policies adopted by Congress in relation to
World War II. It points out that by virtue of amendments
to § 5 (b) of the Trading with the Enemy Act which were
made on December 18, 1941 by the First War Powers Act
(55 Stat. 839, 50 U. S. C. App., Supp. IV, § 616), the Executive is now armed with far more comprehensive power
over alien property and the property of other foreign interests than in World War I. Now there is the "freezing"
or "blocking" of foreign funds aimed at the immobilization of foreign assets in the United States by prohibiting,

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

without a license, any transactions involving them-a
program initiated after the invasion by Germany of Denmark and Norway and administered by the Treasury.'
If the Treasury refuses a license permitting payment of
creditors out of blocked funds, neither the creditor nor
the owner has any remedy as a matter of right under the
Act. It is said that to allow creditors of certain aliens
whose property has been vested in the Alien Property
Custodian to maintain suits but to disallow suits by creditors of aliens whose funds are merely frozen is to destroy
consistency in the position of creditors under the Trading
with the Enemy Act. Moreover, § 9 (a) permits suits on
debt claims only if the debt is one "owing from an enemy
or ally of enemy" whose property has been taken. By the
1941 amendment to § 5 (b) the vesting power has not
been so limited but extends to "any property or interest
of any foreign country or national." The argument is
that to construe § 9 (e) so as to permit creditors of an
enemy to sue is to discriminate without warrant against
creditors of non-enemy foreign nationals who are given
no such remedy. Moreover, it is said that if § 9 (e) is
not a barrier to suits, a race of diligence would be started
with no guarantee of any equitably ordered priority in the
payment of the claims out of the seized property. It is
also argued that if these suits are allowed the operations
of the Custodian would be burdened with litigation.
We have concluded that however meritorious these considerations are, they raise questions of policy for Congress.
We are concerned only with the right to sue on a debt
under § 9. Congress granted that right to some claimants and Withheld it from others. Whether its choice was
wise or not is not for us to say. The right to sue, explicitly
granted by § 9 (a), should not be read out of the law

' This program, initiated by Executive Order 8389, dated April
10, 1940, 5 Fed. Reg. 1400, was ratified by Congress on May 7, 1940,

by Joint Resolution. 54 Stat. 179.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

Opinion of the Court.

unless it is clear that Congress by what it later did withdrew its earlier permission.

We can find no indication

in the 1941 legislation that Congress by amending § 5 (b)
desired to delete or wholly nullify § 9 (a). On the contrary, the normal assumption is that where Congress

amends only one section of a law, leaving another untouched, the two were designed to function as parts of
an integrated whole. We should give each as full a play
as possible. Moreover, we are able to find in the amendment to § 5 (b) no suggestion or indication that Congress
was writing a different statute of limitations than was
then contained in § 9 (e). The 1941 amendment is as
silent on that score as it is on the right to sue afforded

by § 9 (a).
It is true that § 5 (b) gave a broader grant of authority
to the Executive than had existed under the original Act.5
As respects the seizure of property it provides:
5As stated in H. Rep. No. 1507, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 2-3:
"Section 5 (b) of the Trading With the Enemy Act has been continued down to the present time. The existing system of foreign
property control (commonly known as freezing control) is based on
that subdivision as last amended on May 7, 1940. That subdivision
of section 5 as it is now in effect, however, does not give the broad
powers to take, administer, control, use, liquidate, etc., such foreignowned property that would be given by section 301 of the bill.
"At present the Government exercises supervision over transactions in foreign property, either by prohibiting such transactions or
by permitting them on condition and under license. It is, therefore,
a system which can prevent transactions in foreign property prejudicial to the best interests of the United States, but it is not a system
which can affirmatively compel the use and application of foreign
property in those interests.
"Section 301 remedies that situation by adding to the existing
freezing control, in substance, the powers contained in the Trading
With the Enemy Act with respect to alien property, extending those
powers, and adding a flexibility of control which experience under
the original act and the recent experience under freezing control
have demonstrated to be advisable. The provisions of section 301

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

"any property or interest of any foreign country or
national thereof shall vest, when, as, and upon the terms,
directed by the President, in such agency or person as may
be designated from time to time by the President, and
upon such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe such interest or property shall be held, used, administered, liquidated,sold, or otherwise dealt with in the
interest of and for the benefit of the United States, and
such designated agency or person may perform any and
all acts incident to the accomplishment or furtherance of
these purposes." (Italics added.)
It is said that the survival of the privilege of satisfying
debt claims as a matter of right out of vested property
is inconsistent with the new power granted the Executive
by § 5 (b) to make any affirmative use of the property
that the national interest in time of war might require.
But we are here concerned solely with the right to sue on
a debt, not with the right to sue to reclaim property nor
with any question concerning the satisfaction of any
judgment which may be obtained. We only hold that the
right to sue on a debt granted by § 9 (a) has not been
wholly withdrawn and that § 9 (e) is not applicable to
this class of claims. We cannot see that the allowance of
would permit the establishment of a complete system of alien property treatment. It vests flexible powers in the President, operating
through such agency or agencies as he might choose, to deal with
the problems that surround alien property or its ownership or control
in the manner deemed most effective in each particular case. In this
respect the bill avoids the rigidity and inflexibility which characterized the alien property custodian law enacted during the last war.
The necessity for flexibility in legislation on this subject is accentuated by the vastness of the alien property problem confronting the
Government today. At the peak of his activity, the Alien Property
Custodian of the last war administered property valued at something
over $500,000,000. Today there is over $7,000,000,000 worth of
property already subject to the existing control."
And see S. Rep. No. 911, 77th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2.

MARKEHAM v. CABELL.
404

BURTON,

J., concurring.

a suit on a debt as prescribed by § 9 (a) collides with
the policy of § 5 (b). That does not in any way cause

interference with the administration of the vested property pursuant to § 5 (b).

Sec. 9 (a), to be sure, contains

a provision which prescribes how any judgment obtained
in the suit against the Custodian or Treasurer shall be
satisfied; ' and also allows suits to reclaim property.'
Whether those provisions have been superseded by § 5 (b)
or whether § 5 (b) contains a grant of authority which

may be so exercised as to prevent the reclamation of property or the payment of the judgment or to alter the pro-

cedure for reclamation or payment as prescribed in § 9 (a)
are distinct questions. Here we are dealing solely with
the right to maintain a suit on a debt, a right which is
not shown to collide with § 5 (b). We reserve decision

on the other questions.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
BURTON, concurring.
A review of the development of the Trading with the
Enemy Act from its inception in 1917, early in World War
MR. JUSTICE

6"If suit shall be so instituted, then such money or property shall
be retained in the custody of the Alien Property Custodian, or in the
Treasury of the United States, as provided in this Act, and until any
final judgment or decree which shall be entered in favor of the claimant shall be fully satisfied by payment or conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery by the defendant, or by the Alien Property Custodian, or Treasurer of the United States on order of the court, or
until final judgment or decree shall be entered against the claimant
or suit otherwise terminated."
7See. 9 (a) allows suits by "Any person not an enemy or ally of
enemy claiming any interest, right, or title in any money or other
property which may have been conveyed, transferred, assigned, delivered, or paid to the Alien Property Custodian or seized by him
hereunder and held by him or by the Treasurer of the United States,"
as well as suits by any such person to whom a debt may be owing from
any enemy or ally of enemy whose property has been seized.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BuRToN, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

I, further discloses its dual purposes in a way that throws
needed light upon its meaning at the time of this proceeding in 1944, late in World War II.
It originated as H. R. 4960, June 11, 1917, drafted in
the form of permanent legislation. Its purposes were explained by House and Senate Committees in terms suited
to permanent legislation.' Before its passage, several

amendments were inserted which limited specific sections
of the Act to "the present war," ' but none of these so
limited § 9 or the Act as a whole. Other sections were
limited by references made to specific nations and still
others by references to specific dates. Later amendments
added other provisions confined to World War I. However, no general limitation ever has confined the Act as

a whole or its main structural provisions to a specific war,
specific nations or specific dates. In this way the Act has
met the immediate needs of its time and also has stood
ready to meet additional wars and additional enemies.
The beginning of World War II in 1941 accordingly found
2"The chief objects of this bill are (1) to recognize and apply concretely, subject to definite modifications, the principle and practice
of international law interdicting trade in time of war, and (2) to
conserve and utilize upon a basis of practical justice enemy property
found within the jurisdiction of the United States.... According
to American law one of the immediate consequences of war is to put
an end to all commercial relations between citizens or subjects of
belligerent nations." H. R. Rep. No. 85, 65th Cong., 1st Sess., 1,
June 21, 1917. "To summarize the purpose of the bill is not to create
new international rules or practices, but to define and mitigate them."
H. R. Rep. No. 85, supra,p. 2. "The purpose of this bill is to mitigate
the rules of law which prohibit all intercourse between the citizens
of warring nations, and to permit, under careful safeguards and restrictions, certain kinds of business to be carried on. It also provides
for the care and administration of the property and property rights
of enemies and their allies in this country pending the war." Sen.
Rep. No. 113, 65th Cong., 1st Sess., 1, Aug. 31, 1917.
9The conference report inserted five such references. H. R. Rep.
No. 155, 65th Cong., lst Sess., 3, 6, September 21, 1917.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

415

BURTON, J., concurring.

many provisions of the Act, such as § 9 (e), limited by
references to World War I, and others, such as §9 (a),
not so limited.
By its terms, its nature and its history, § 9 (e) I from its
inception has related solely to World War I. Its relation
to World War I is apparent on its face. Its first clause
refers to a restriction on the allowance of a debt "to any
person who is a citizen or a subject of any nation which
was associated with the United States in the prosecution
of the war." These words, enacted in 1920 (41 Stat. 977,
980) and reenacted in 1923 (42 Stat. 1511, 1514), refer
to any nation "associated" with us in World War I.
"Associated" was then a word of art. Its second clause
reads, "nor in any event shall a debt be allowed under
this section unless it was owing to and owned by the
claimant prior to October 6, 1917." This refers to the
effective date of the original Trading with the Enemy Act.
This date provides a reasonable test for debts to be al3 Section 9 (e) of the Trading with the Enemy Act, as last amended,
August 24, 1937 (50 U. S. C. App., §9 (e)), is as follows:
"No money or other property shall be returned nor any debt
allowed under this section to any person who is a citizen or subject
of any nation which was associated with the United States in the
prosecution of the war, unless such nation in like case extends
reciprocal rights to citizens of the United States: Provided, That any
arrangement made by a foreign nation for the release of money and
other property of American citizens and certified by the Secretary
of State to the Attorney General as fair and the most advantageous
arrangement obtainable shall be regarded as meeting this requirement; nor in any event shall a debt be allowed under this section
unless it was owing to and owned by the claimant prior to October 6,
1917, and as to claimants other than citizens of the United States
unless it arose with reference to the money or other property held by
the Alien Property Custodian or Treasurer of the United States
hereunder; nor shall a debt be allowed under this section unless notice
of the claim has been filed, or application therefor has been made,
prior to the date of the enactment of the Settlement of War Claime
Act of 1928 (Act March 10, 1928, eh. 167)." (Italics supplied.)

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

lowed against property seized by the Alien Property Custodian in connection with World War I. It has no
reasonable relation to a war beginning in 1941. To require claims to be more than 24 years old in order to be
acceptable is beyond reason. The last clause reads, "nor
shall a debt be allowed under this section unless notice
of the claim has been filed, or application therefor has
been made, prior to the date of the enactment of the
Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928." This clause
means nothing when applied to a claim like the present
one which was not earned until 1935.
Section 9 (e) as thus earmarked prescribes a natural
limitation upon claims to be allowed against enemy property seized in World War I. As such it is reasonable. It
is not possible, however, that Congress intentionally chose
this indirect way of saying that American creditors may
assert just claims against assets of debtors whose properties were seized in World War I, but not against assets
of debtors whose properties might be held in custody by
the Alien Property Custodian as a result of future wars.
The legislative history emphasizes this. The original
Trading with the Enemy Act, when enacted, October 6,
1917 (40 Stat. 411), contained two kinds of provisions.
The general structure of the Act was in terms of permanent legislation. Section 2 in defining terms refrained
from reference to the war then in progress or to specific
nations or fixed dates. For example, it provided that:
"The words 'the beginning of the war,' as used herein,
shall be deemed to mean midnight ending the day on
which Congress has declared or shall declare war or the
existence of a state of war.
"The words 'end of the war,' as used herein, shall be
deemed to mean the date of proclamation of exchange of
ratifications of the treaty of peace, unless the President
shall, by proclamation, declare a prior date, in which case
the date so proclaimed shall be deemed to be the 'end of

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

BuRToN, J., concurring.

the war' within the meaning of this Act." (50 U. S. C.
App., § 2 (c).)
Sections 3 (a), (b) and (c) dealt in like terms with
general procedure for trading under Presidential license
in time of war. Section 5 (b) dealt with the regulation
of foreign exchange, coin export, transfers of credit, etc.
Section 6 authorized the President to appoint an official
to be known as the Alien Property Custodian. Section 9
provided for the assertion of property claims and debt
claims on behalf of any person not an enemy or ally of
enemy against certain assets in the possession of the
Custodian.
On the other hand, certain other provisions were, from
the beginning, earmarked as temporary provisions. For
example, § 3 (d) referred to certain censorship to be established "during the present war." Section 4 (a) referred
to certain German insurance companies. Section 4 (b)
referred to "the present war." Similar references to "the
present war" occurred in §§ 11, 13 and 14.
Section 9 is typical. Originally it was all of a general
and permanent nature. It has been amended nine times.
Its first paragraph has been preserved, with slight changes,
as § 9 (a) in the form of permanent legislation. On the
other hand, many new subsections of § 9, including § 9 (e),
contain provisions suited only to transactions growing
out of World War I. The first amendment to § 9 was that
of July 11, 1919 (41 Stat. 35). This threatened to confuse
the situation. It inserted in the first paragraph a proviso
referring to (41 Stat. 36) "all property heretofore determined by the President to have been held . . . for the
benefit of a person who was an enemy or ally of enemy"
and to "territory of any nation associated with the United
States in the prosecution of the war which was occupied by
the military or naval forces of Germany or AustriaHungary, or their allies." (Italics supplied.) On June
5, 1920, however, the second amendment (41 Stat. 977)

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

corrected this and set the pattern which has since been
followed. It reenacted the whole of § 9 and, in doing so,
removed from its first paragraph the 1919 proviso. It
restored that paragraph to general terms and gave it the
designation of § 9 (a) which it has retained. Congress, at
the same time, added several subsections most of which
contained express references to Germany and AustriaHungary. Section 9 (e) first appeared at that time.
From the beginning, § 9 (e) contained its present references to "any nation which was associatedwith the United
States in the prosecution of the war" and to the requirement that a debt in order to be allowed under the section
must have been "owing to and owned by the claimant
priorto October 6, 1917." Later amendments emphasized
this restriction of § 9. (e) to World War I, while preserving
the general and permanent character of § 9 (a).' Distor' The later amendments were those of February 27, 1921 (41 Stat.
1147), applying §§ 9 (b) (2) and (3) to situations where a woman
"prior to April 6, 1917, intermarried with a subject or citizen of
Germany or Austria-Hungary";
December 21, 1921 (42 Stat. 351), amending § 9 (a) to permit
suits to be brought eighteen months instead of six months after the
"end of the war." The amendment did not insert any calendar date
relating to World War I although peace had been declared July 2,
1921. The words "end of the war" must, therefore, be given their
general meaning applicable to all wars as provided in the definitions
in § 2, supra;
December 27, 1922 (42 Stat. 1065), amending § 9 (a) to permit
suits to be brought 30 months instead of 18 months after the "end of

the war";
March 4, 1923 (42 Stat. 1511), reenacting the whole § 9. In § 9 (a)
it omitted all limitation on the time within which suits might be
brought. It added new subsections especially adapted to World War I
claims such as a restriction against claims on behalf of citizens of
the United States naturalized since November 11, 1918;
May 7, 1926 (44 Stat. 406), adding §§ 9 (b) (3A) and (3B) as to
citizens of Germany, Austria, Hungary or Austria-Hungary;
March 10, 1928 (45 Stat. 254-279). This was the "Settlement of
War Claims Act of 1928." It dealt expressly with World War I. It

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

BURTON, J., concurring.

tion of the meaning of statutory language would result
not from limiting § 9 (e) to World War I but from applying it to World War II.
It is argued that to exclude the defense which is claimed
to be supplied by § 9 (e) against debts payable out of
property vested in the Custodian during World War II,
under § 5 (b), as amended by the First War Powers Act,
December 18, 1941 (55 Stat. 839), will result in inequities.
For example, it is urged that § 5 (b) was amended in 1941
to permit vesting in the Custodian of property of "any
foreign country or national thereof." However, § 9 (a)
has not been amended correspondingly to permit the assertion of claims to the payment of debts out of the property of a foreign national as distinguished from that of
an "enemy or ally of enemy." From this it is argued that
Congress should not be regarded as having intended to
create such inequities, if there be such, between creditors
of "enemies" and those of other "foreign nationals,"
through the passage of the First War Powers Act; and
that, therefore, Congress must be regarded as having intended that § 9 (e) eliminate all creditors' claims under
§ 9 (a) against property of enemies and of allies of enemies, unless filed or claimed before March 10, 1928.
This amounts to an argument that because subsequent
legislation has produced inequitable results, therefore
pre-existing legislation should be reinterpreted so as to
was concerned with such subjects as the "Mixed Claims Commission"
and "The Tripartite Claims Commission." It amended the Trading
with the Enemy Act in many details as to World War I claims and
added many new provisions as to those claims. It added subsections
to § 9. In § 9 (e) it inserted the clause which required that notices
of claims must have been filed or applications for claims must have
been made before the enactment of the Settlement of War Claims
Act of 1928;
August 24, 1937 (50 Stat. 748), amending § 9 (e) by inserting the
proviso as to arrangements which will be regarded as meeting the
requirements of reciprocal rights.

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BtrroN, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

eliminate these subsequently created inequities. If the
meaning of § 9 (e) was restricted to World War I prior
to the enactment of the First War Powers Act, the First
War Powers Act cannot change the meaning of § 9 (e)
without amending it, and it does not amend it. A suggestion that amendatory legislation might now be helpful
is found in bills recently introduced in Congress with the
support of the Alien Property Custodian. The hearings
emphasize that need.8
Furthermore, the interpretation now urged to offset inequities would create other inequities. For example, the
proposed interpretation would result in an inequity to the
respondent in the present case. He is an American citizen
with an admittedly good claim for about $7,000 earned
in 1935, against an enemy corporation, assets of which in
the hands of the Alien Property Custodian are ample to
pay the claim. The claimant filed his claim within the
one year prescribed in the order vesting the assets of the
enemy company in the Custodian.' The claimant is now
met with a defense that he cannot recover because he
failed to file his claim before March 10, 1928, which was
seven years before it was earned and fourteen years before the assets had been vested in the Custodian with
whom he is asked to file his notice. The decision as to the
existence of inequities under the 1941 amendment and as
to the best way to deal with them lay with Congress in
1941 and still lies there.
The Act never has had a termination clause and was
expressly excluded from the Joint Resolution of March 3,
1921 (41 Stat. 1359), which declared that certain acts of
5 S. 1940, H. R. 4840 and H. R. 5031 were introduced in the 78th
Congress. H. R. 1530 was introduced in the 79th Congress, January
16, 1945. See Hearings on H. R. 4840 before Subcommittee No. 1 of
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives,
78th Cong., 2d Seas., Serial No. 18, June 9-15, 1944.

6See note 10 infra.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

BuRToN, J., concurring.

Congress should be construed as if the war had ended and
the present or then existing emergency had expired. The
Settlement of War Claims Act of 1928 ' was engrafted upon
the Trading with the Enemy Act without affecting its general structure or its life. In the natural course of events
World War I claims ultimately would have been disposed
of and yet the main structure of the Act would have remained on the books ready for later use. That this was
contemplated is evidenced by Executive Order 6694, May
1, 1934.8 This was issued under authority of the Reorganization Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1489, 1517).
Section 1 expressly abolished the Office of the Alien Property Custodian and transferred the "authority, rights,
privileges, powers, and duties conferred and imposed on
the Alien Property Custodian by law and/or Executive
Order . . . to the Department of Justice, to be admin-

istered under the supervision of the Attorney General."
This incorporated the office of the Alien Property Custodian into the permanent structure of the Government.
Within the Department of Justice the rights, privileges,
powers and duties conferred upon the Alien Property
Custodian were placed under the Attorney General and
were later exercised largely through him or the Assistant
Attorney General in charge of the Claims Division in the
Department of Justice. On May 15, 1939, by Executive
Order 8136, 4 Fed. Reg. 2044, all power and authority
conferred upon the President by §§ 9, 12, 20 and 21 of the
Trading with the Enemy Act and all power and authority
which the President under that Act had theretofore ordered
to be exercised through the Alien Property Custodian were
vested in and required to be exercised through the Attorney General or the Assistant Attorney General in charge
of the Claims Division in the Department of Justice.
In this status § 9 (a) and other permanent portions of
' See note 4 8upra.
828 C. F. R. § 4.1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
BURTON, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

the Trading with the Enemy Act awaited the next war.
If left in that form there would have been no inequities
other than those which had existed in World War I. The
Act would have been administered much as it was in
World War I except that it would have been administered
through the Attorney General and the Department of
Justice instead of through an independent agency. In
1940, at the approach of World War II, the Act had much
the same structure in §§ 9 (a), 9 (e) and 5 (b) as it had
in 1928. The inequities discussed in this proceeding arose
later from the substantial expansion of § 5 (b).9
9 The development of the law especially affecting § 5 (b) which
took place during the national emergency prior to World War II,
did not change the situation although it did emphasize the connection
of the Trading with the Enemy Act with the permanent structure
of the Federal Government.
For example, on March 9, 1933 (48 Stat. 1), § 5 (b), relating to
foreign exchange, export or hoarding of coin, etc., was amended as a
part of the legislative program to meet the national emergency in
banking. The amendment thus applied the power of the President'
under this Act to the internal conditions of the country rather than
to its international relations. This was supplemented by Executive
Order 6560, January 15, 1934, 31 C. F. R. § 127.0.
Following the transfer of the office of the Alien Property Custodian
to the Department of Justice, § 9 (e) received a slight amendment on
August 24, 1937. (50 Stat. 748.) See note 4 supra. Additional responsibility under the Act was placed upon the Attorney General or
the Assistant Attorney General in charge of Claims on May 15, 1939.
Executive Order 8136, 4 Fed. Reg. 2044. On April 10, 1940, the
President issued Executive Order 8389, 5 Fed. Reg. 1400, which, under
authority of § 5 (b), extended control over property in which Norway
or Denmark or any national thereof had an interest. This action was
confirmed and further supplemented by the Act of May 7, 1940
(54 Stat. 179). This was substantially extended to many other nations
by Executive Order 8785, June 14, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 2897; Proclamation No. 2497, July 17, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 3555; Executive Order
8832, July 26, 1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 3715; Executive Order 8839, July 30,
1941, 6 Fed. Reg. 3823; Executive Order 8900, September 15, 1941,
6 Fed. Reg. 4795; Executive Order 8963, December 9, 1941, 6 Fed.
Reg. 6348.

MARKHAM v. CABELL.
404

BuRTON, J., concurring.

On December 18, 1941 came the First War Powers Act.
55 Stat. 839. No statutory or executive action was needed
to make the machinery of the Trading with the Enemy
Act available. It was already in effect with the full statutory powers of the Alien Property Custodian vested in
the Attorney General. Title III of the First War Powers
Act expressly recognized the Trading with the Enemy Act
by amending only § 5 (b) of it. Congress also confirmed
all actions already taken "under the Trading with the
Enemy Act" which would have been authorized "if the
provisions of this Act [First War Powers Act] and the
amendments made by it had been in effect."
On March 11, 1942, the President issued Executive
Order 9095, 7 Fed. Reg. 1971, establishing in the Office
for Emergency Management of the Executive Office of
the President, the Office of Alien Property Custodian, at
the head of which there again would be an Alien Property
Custodian appointed by the President. By Executive
Order 9142, April 21, 1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 2985, expressly
acting under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and in particular under Title I of the First War
Powers Act, the President transferred "for the continuance of the present war and for six months after the termination thereof" to "the Alien Property Custodian
provided for by Executive Order No. 9095," everything
that had been transferred to the Attorney General by Executive Order 6694 of May 1, 1934, or to the. Assistant
Attorney General in charge of the Claims Division of the
Department of Justice under Executive Order 8136, May
15, 1939, 4 Fed. Reg. 2044.
On July 6, 1942, Executive Order 9095 was amended by
Executive Ordei 9193, 7 Fed. Reg. 5205. The Alien
Property Custodian "provided for by Executive Order
No. 9095," as amended by Executive Order 9193, was thus
given the powers of the Trading with the Enemy Act as
fully as in World War I and also additional powers pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
ButTON, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

vided through amendments including the expansion of
powers under § 5 (b). These authorizations carried
power to issue regulations particularly in connection with
the vestafg of property as was done by the vesting orders
in this case.10 The Alien Property Custodian, in taking
over the administration of the Trading with the Enemy
Act, is entitled to the full scope of its permanent provisions whether found in § 5 (b) or § 9 (a) or elsewhere.
For these reasons, § 9 (e) does not present a ground for
dismissal of the complaint which depends upon § 9 (a)
and the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
affirmed.
MR. JusTicE FRANKFURTER, having concurred in the
Court's opinion, also joins in these views.
10 "Without limitation as to any other powers or authority of the
Secretary of the Treasury or the Alien Property Custodian under
any other provision of this Executive Order, the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Alien Property Custodian are authorized and
empowered, either jointly or severally, to prescribe from time to
time, regulations, rulings, and instructions to carry out the purposes
of this Executive Order." See. 4, Executive Order 9193, July 6,
1942, 7 Fed. Reg. 5205. See also, provisions of the Vesting Orders as
to notice of claims against the property involved in this proceeding.
Each of the Vesting Orders cited in the Court's opinion provides:
"Any person, except a national of a designated enemy country, asserting any claim arising as a result of this order my file with the Alien
Property Custodian a notice of his claim, together with a request
for a hearing thereon, on Form APC--1, within one year from the
date hereof, or within such further time as may be allowed by the
Alien Property Custodian. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed
to constitute an admission of the existence, validity or right to allowanoe of any such claim." The amended complaint in this case alleges,
"A notice of this claim dated and verified January 19th, 1943, was
filed with the Alien Property Custodian on or about that date and by
him assigned the number F-38-98-1. An amended and supplemental
notice of the claim dated and verified May 1st, 1944, has, at the suggestion of the Alien Property Custodian, been executed and filed and
a new number, to wit, 280 has been assigned thereto."

