CHICKASAW NATION v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

CHICKASAW NATION v. UNITED STATES.
PETITION FOR CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 170. Decided November 5, 1945.
In a suit in the Court of Claims by an Indian tribe against the Government, items of the Government's gratuitous expenditures for
the benefit of the Indian tribe which, pursuant to the Act of August
12, 1935, are used to offset the Government's liability, should be
specifically designated in the judgment. P. 218.
103 Ct. Cls. 1, reversed.
PETITION

for a writ of certiorari, herein granted, to

review a judgment dismissing a suit in the Court of Claims.
Messrs. William A. Cornish and Pad M. Niebell for
petitioner.
Acting Solicitor General Judson, Messrs. J. Edward
Williams, Roger P. Marquis, John C. Harrington and
Walter J. Cummings, Jr. for the United States.
PER CU1AM.

The Chickasaw Nation asks certiorari to review a judgment of the Court of Claims, 103 Ct. Cls. 1, dismissing its
suit for moneys allegedly owing to it by the United States.
Some of petitioner's claims were denied below, but others,
totalling $22,858.78, were allowed. Against this amount
the court below, applying ยง 2 of the Act of August 12, 1935,
49 Stat. 571, 596, offset a like amount which the court
found to have been gratuitously expended by the United
States for the benefit of the Nation. The findings listed
various items of gratuity expenditures totalling $69,920.39.
But the judgment did not specify which of these items
were being applied as offsets to the claims allowed. Instead, all of the offset items were treated as commingled
in a single gratuity fund upon which the Government
might draw for the discharge of its obligations, as upon a
bank account.
673554-46 .--- 20

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

In Seminole Nation v. United States, 316 U. S. 286, 308,
we pointed out that the gratuity items which have been
used as statutory offsets to Indian claims against the
Government should be specifically designated in the
judgment. When that course is not followed, Indian
claimants desirous of challenging the allowed offsets on
appeal must be prepared to attack all the items which
make up the fund, however much it may exceed their
claims. Moreover, such a judgment, by leaving unidentified the particular gratuities which have been applied
as offsets, necessarily adjudicates the validity for that
purpose of all, since it makes all proportionately applicable as offsets. There is no reason why Indian claimants
should be required in some subsequent suit to meet the
defense that gratuity items whose offset was not necessary
to the result in an earlier case have nevertheless been there
finally adjudicated to be valid offsets, or why this Court,
in reviewing the earlier judgment, should be required to
pass on the validity of such items as offsets. When specified items of gratuity are allocated as offsets, other items,
included in the findings but not applied as offsets, do not
affect the judgment, their validity as offsets need not be
reviewed on appeal, and they create no estoppel for
future cases
The gratuity items included among the findings below
as available for offset are there described as "incorporated
by reference" from findings in a "companion case" decided by the Court of Claims on the same day (Chickasaw
Nation v. United States, 103 Ct. Cls. 45, certiorari denied,
326 U. S. 751), in which none of the gratuities found were
used, nothing having been found due from the United
States on the claims there advanced. The petition before
us makes no objection to this procedure, and in view of
the failure to apply such items as offsets in the companion
case, we assume that their validity as such was open to
objection in the present suit. We only conclude that the

LEVERS v. ANDERSON.
217

Syllabus.

judgment here should be in such form as not to compel
unnecessary adjudication of such objections on appeal,
or unnecessarily to foreclose consideration of such objections to the use of these items as offsets in some future
litigation.
The petition for writ of certiorari is granted, limited to
the question whether the particular gratuity items-necessarily used as offsets should be designated by the judgment. The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded
to the Court of Claims for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JusTwic

JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
LEVERS, ADMINISTRATOR, v. ANDERSON, DISTRICT SUPERVISOR, ALCOHOL TAX UNIT.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 51. Argued October 16, 1945.-Decided November 5, 1945.
1. An application for a rehearing before a District Supervisor of the
Alcohol Tax Unit of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, who had
entered orders annulling a permit to operate a wholesale liquor business and denying applications for importer's and wholesaler's permits, is not a prerequisite to the judicial review specifically provided
by ยง 4 (h) of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act. Pp. 220,

224.
2. Hearings were held and evidence was taken before a hearing commissioner, petitioner being represented by counsel. The hearing
commissioner made findings of fact which were approved by the
District Supervisor without affording petitioner an opportunity
to except to them. On the basis of these findings, the District
Supervisor entered orders annulling an existing permit and denying applications for others, without affording petitioner an op-

portunity to argue orally before him. The Treasury regulations
authorize, but do not require, the District Supervisor to grant a
rehearing. Nor do they require him to afford petitioner an op-

