ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.

561

Statement of the Case.

ORDER OF RAILWAY CONDUCTORS OF AMERICA

v. PITNEY ET AL., TRUSTEES OF CENTRAL
RAILROAD CO. OF NEW JERSEY, ET AL.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 37. Argued November 9, 1945.-Decided January 14, 1946.
While a proceeding for reorganization of a railroad under § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act was pending in the District Court, the trustees
agreed with the bargaining representative of "yard conductors"
that certain trains which had been manned by "road conductors"
should be manned by "yard conductors." Relying on earlier agreements, the bargaining representative of the road conductors petitioned the court to instruct the trustees not to displace the road
conductors and to enjoin such action as long as the earlier agreements were not altered in accordance with the Railway Labor Act.
The court determined that the yard conductors were entitled to
man the trains in question, and dismissed the petition. Held:
1. Fo far as the order constituted instructions to the trustees,
it was within the supervisory power of the District Court as a bankruptcy court and is affirmed. Pp. 562, 567.
2. The District Court should not have interpreted the agreements
for purposes of finally adjudicating the dispute between the unions
and the railroad, but should stay dismissal of the cause so as to
afford opportunity for application to the Adjustment Board for an
interpretation of the agreements pursuant to the Railway Labor
Act. P. 567.
3. Congress having created by the Railway Labor Act an agency
especially competent and specifically designated to settle such a
labor dispute as is here involved, the court should exercise equitable discretion to give that agency the first opportunity to pass
on the issue. The extraordinary relief of an injunction should be
withheld at least until then. P. 567.
4. Any rights clearly revealed by an interpretation of the agreements by the Adjustment Board might then, if the situation warrants, be protected in this proceeding. P. 568.
145 F. 2d 351, modified.
CERTIORARI, 325 U. S. 849, to review a judgment which,
upon appeal from an order of the bankruptcy court, re-

562

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

manded the cause for dismissal without prejudice to any
action or proceeding not in conflict with the Railway
Labor Act.
Mr. V. C. Shuttleworth, with whom Messrs. Carl S.
Kuebler, Rufus G. Poole and Milton C. Denbo were on
the brief (Mr. James D. Carpenter,Jr. entered an appearance), for petitioners.
Mr. Richard J. Lally, with whom Mr. Howard L. Kern
was on the brief, for the Trustees; and Mr. Harry Lane,
with whom Mr. Robert Carey was on the brief, for the
Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen et al., respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case requires us to consider to what extent a Federal District Court having charge of a railroad reorganization has power to adjudicate a jurisdictional dispute involving the railroad and two employee accredited bargaining agents in view of the provisions in the Railway Labor
Act, 45 U. S. C. § 151 et seq., giving such power to the
administrative agencies established thereunder. Each
union claims that its respective collective bargaining
agreement entitles it to supply conductors for five daily
freight trains operated within the Elizabethport, New
Jersey, yards of the railroad and both pressed their contentions on the reorganization trustees appointed under the
provisions of § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. 11 U. S. C. §205.
The two unions are the Order of Railway Conductors
(0. R. C.), which represents road conductors who ordinarily operate trains outside the yards, and the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen (B. R. T.), which represents
yard conductors who ordinarily operate trains inside the
yards. But here, the practice over a period of years had
been that at times yard conductors manned some trains
outside the yard and road conductors manned some trains

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.
561

563

Opinion of the Court.

within the yard, including the five freight trains here involved. In 1940 the railroad in response to pressure by
the 0. R. C. agreed that thereafter only road conductors
would man the outside trains. However, 0. R. C. conductors continued to operate the five daily freight trains
within the yard. In 1943 the railroad was prevailed upon
by the B. R. T. to agree to substitute B. R. T. yard conductors for the 0. R. C. conductors operating these five
trains.
Thereupon 0. R. C. brought this suit in the reorganization court. It alleged that its members had for the past
35 years operated the trains in issue as a result of negotiations as to rules, rates of pay and working conditions
between it and the railroad and that the 1940 contract
specifically provided that this situation would not be
changed without further agreement. Thus, the proposed
displacement of 0. R. C. conductors would violate § 6 of
the Railway Labor Act which makes it unlawful for a
carrier or employee representatives to change "pay, rules,
or working conditions," unless 30 days written notice of
the intended change shall have been given and the controversy has been finally acted upon by the Mediation
Board.' The 0. R. C. asked the court to instruct its
1"Sec. 6. Carriers and representatives of the employees shall give
at least thirty days' written notice of an intended change in agreements affecting rates of pay, rules, or working conditions, and the time
and place for the beginning of conference between the representatives
of the parties interested in such intended changes shall be agreed
upon within ten days after the receipt of said notice, and said time
shall be within the thirty days provided in the notice. In every case
where such notice of intended change has been given, or conferences
are being held with reference thereto, or the services of the Mediation
Board have been requested by either party, or said Board has proffered
its services, rates of pay, rules, or working conditions shall not be
altered by the carrier until the controversy has been finally acted
upon as required by section 5 of this Act, by the Mediation Board,
unless a period of ten days has elapsed after termination of conferences without request for or proffer of the services of the Mediation
Board."

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

trustees not to displace road conductors and to enjoin
them permanently from taking such action so long as
0. R. C.'s contracts with the road were not altered in
accordance with the provisions of the Railway Labor
Act.
Answers were filed by the trustees and the B. R. T. as
intervenor. The case was referred to a Master who, after
a hearing, found that 0. R. C.'s collective bargaining contracts did not provide that its conductors were to operate
the five freight trains and that the B. R. T. contract
allotted these lines to its members. The District Court
sustained these findings and accordingly dismissed the
petition on the merits. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that the petition should be dismissed on jurisdictional
grounds because it thought that the remedies of the Railway Labor Act for the settlement of disputes such as here
involved are exclusive. 145 F. 2d 351. It further stated
that if it should be mistaken on the jurisdictional question,
then it agreed with the District Court that the road conductors must lose on the merits.
Section 77 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act provides that
"No judge or trustee acting under this Act shall change
the wages or working conditions of railroad employees,
except in the manner prescribed in the Railway Labor
Act . . ." 49 Stat. 923. Section 1 of the Railway Labor
Act defines a carrier, subject to it, as including "any receiver, trustee, or other individual or body, judicial or
otherwise, when in the possession of the business of any
such 'carrier' . . ." And § 2, Seventh, of the Act provides
that "no carrier, its officers or agents shall change the rates
of pay, rules, or working conditions of its employees, as a
class as embodied in agreementsexcept in the manner prescribed in such agreements or in section 6 of this Act."
Section 6, as we have seen, prohibits such changes unless
notice is first given and its requirements are otherwise
complied with. Section 2, Tenth, of the Act makes it a

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.
561

565

Opinion of the Court.

misdemeanor, punishable by both fine and imprisonment,
for a carrier wilfully to violate § 6.
These sections make it clear that the only conduct which
would violate § 6 is a change of those working conditions
which axe "embodied" in agreements. But the answers
here specifically denied that the 0. R. C. agreements provided that road conductors operate the five trains in question. This put in issue the meaning of the contracts that
allegedly embodied the working conditions which the
trustees were about to change. The court, therefore, had
to interpret these contracts before it could find that §6
had been violated.
In interpreting the contracts the court might act in two

distinct capacities. First, it might do so in the capacity
of a "judicial" "body" in the "possession of the business,"
or a "carrier" within the meaning of § 1 of the Railway
Labor Act. As such it would have to interpret the contracts in order to exercise the jurisdiction conferred by the
Bankruptcy Act 2 to control its trustees so as to insure
the preservation and proper administration of the debtor's
estate. But such instructions, while binding on the trustees and, just as any other order, subject to appellate review, amount to no more than the decision any other
carrier would sooner or later make about the course it
must follow and, therefore, can not finally settle the dispute between union and employer.
Finally, to settle that dispute the reorganization court
would have to act in the further capacity of a tribunal
empowered to grant the equitable relief sought, even
though granting that relief requires interpretation of these
contracts. But Congress has specifically provided for a
tribunal to interpret contracts such as these in order finally
to settle a labor dispute. Section 3 First (i) of the Rail2

See especially Subdivision (c) of § 77 of the Act, which provides
that action of trustees in administering an estate shall be "subject to
the control of the judge."

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

way Labor Act provides that disputes between a carrier
and its employees "growing out of ... the interpretation or application of agreements concerning rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions .
may be referred . . .
by either party to the . . . Adjustment Board." The
Board can not only order reinstatement of the employees,
should they actually be discharged, but it can also under
§ 3, First (o) and (p) grant a money award subject to
judicial review with an allowance for attorney's fees should
the award be sustained. Not only has Congress thus designated an agency peculiarly competent to handle the basic
question here involved, but as we have indicated in several
recent cases in which we had occasion to discuss the history and purpose of the Railway Labor Act, it also intended to leave a minimum responsibility to the courts.'
Of course, where the statute is so obviously violated
that "a sacrifice or obliteration of a right which Congress
. created"' to protect the interest of individuals or
the public is clearly shown, a court of equity could, in a
proper case, intervene. Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548; VirginianR. Co. v. System
Federation,300 U. S. 515. But here it does not clearly
appear whether the statute has been violated or complied
with or that the threatened action "would be prejudicial
to the public interest." Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294
U. S. 176, 185. We have seen that in order to reach a final
decision on that question the court first had to interpret
the terms of 0. R. C.'s collective bargaining agreements.
The record shows, however, that interpretation of these
contracts involves more than the mere construction of a
"document" in terms of the ordinary meaning of words
*

8

General Committee v. M.-K.-T. R. Co., 320 U. S. 323; Switch-

men's Union v. Board, 320 U. S. 297; Trainmen v. Toledo, P. & W.
R. Co., 321 U. S. 50; Telegraphersv. Railway Express Agency, 321

U. S. 342.
' Switchmen's Union v. Board, supra, 300.

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.
561

567

Opinion of the Court.

and their position. See Brown Lumber Co. v. L. & N. R.
Co., 299 U. S. 393, 396. Great Northern R. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285, 291. For 0. R. C.'s
agreements with the railroad must be read in the light
of others between the railroad and B. R. T. And since all
parties seek to support their particular interpretation of
these agreements by evidence as to usage, practice and
custom, that too must be taken into account and properly
understood. The factual question is intricate and technical. An agency especially competent and specifically
designated to deal with it has been created by Congress.
Under these circumstances the court should exercise equitable discretion to give that agency the first opportunity
to pass on the issue. Certainly the extraordinary relief
of an injunction should be withheld, at least, until then.
See Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309 U. S. 478,
483-484; Burford v. Sun Oil Co., 319 U. S. 315. Only
after the Adjustment Board acts, but not until then, can
it plainly appear that such relief is necessary to insure
compliance with the statute. Until such time, 0. R. C.
can not show irreparable loss and inadequacy of the legal
remedy. The court of equity should, therefore, in the
exercise of its discretion stay its hand. Lawrence v. St.
Louis-San FranciscoR. Co., 274 U. S. 588, 592-3 and other
cases cited in Myers v. Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corp.,
303 U. S. 41, 51, n. 9; Natural Gas Co. v. Slattery, 302
U. S.300.
We hold that the District Court had supervisory power
to instruct its trustees as it did. And a review of the evidence persuades us that the court's findings on which such
instructions were based are not clearly erroneous. To the
extent that its order constitutes instructions to its trustees,
it is affirmed. Of course, in this respect it is no more binding on the Adjustment Board than the action of any other
carrier. But the court should not have interpreted the
contracts for purposes of finally adjudicating the dispute

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RuTLEGE,

J., dissenting in part.

326 U. S.

between the unions and the railroad. The dismissal of the
cause should therefore be stayed by the District Court,
so as to give an opportunity for application to the
Adjustment Board for an interpretation of the agreements.

Any rights clearly revealed by such an interpre-

tation might then, if the situation warrants, be protected
in this proceeding.8
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE R.TLEwDE, dissenting in part.

I agree that the District Court should retain jurisdiction of the cause pending interpretation of the agreements
in the procedure provided by the Railway Labor Act for
submitting such questions to the Adjustment Board. Section 77 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act was not intended, I
think, to give the District Court jurisdiction to determine
whether a "change in agreements affecting rates of pay,
rules, or working conditions" within the meaning of § 6
has, in fact, taken place. Its sole effect is to require a
bankruptcy court to follow the procedure set up by the
Railway Labor Act.
In my opinion, however, petitioners are entitled to immediate temporary relief, pending the determination of
the Adjustment Board, in order to assure compliance with
§ 6, if the Board should decide in their favor.
Section 6 enjoins a clear and positive duty on the part
of carriers and employees, a duty which is judicially enforceable, since no other remedy is provided.1 The opinion
5

Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, 267.
& N. 0. R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Clerks, 281 U. S. 548;
Virginian R. Co. v. System Federation,300 U. S. 515; Switchmen'a
Union v. National Meditation Board, 320 U. S. 297; General Committee v. Missouri-Kansas-TexasR. Co., 320 U. S. 323, 331
See text infra as to adequacy of the remedy before the Adjustment
Board.
1 Texas

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.
561

RUTLEDGE,

569

J., dissenting in part.

of the Court so rules, as I understand it, for otherwise
there would be no reason for holding the cause. But if,
pending the Board's determination, - the change forbidden
by § 6 takes place and the Board's decision turns out to
be in favor of the petitioners, the very purpose of § 6
will have been defeated. Its object is to maintain the
status quo, pending the expiration of the period provided
by the section for allowing the processes of negotiation,
mediation and conciliation to have play. It is to prevent
situation in this case is unusual because resort must be had
to the Adjustment Board before it can be determined whether the
forbidden change has been proposed or has taken place in fact.
Whether the relief sought should be granted depends on whether the
Adjustment Board finds that the 1943 contract with B. R. T., or action
taken thereunder, constitutes a "change in agreements affecting rates
of pay, rules, or working conditions" within the meaning of § 6 or one
in "the rates of pay, rules, or working conditions of its employees, as a
class as embodied in agreements," except as provided in § 6, within the
meaning of § 2, Seventh. Cf. also § 77 (n) of the Bankruptcy Act.
This in turn will depend upon the effect which the Board finds should
be given to the prior agreements, including not only the 1940 contract
with 0. R. C., but the basic agreements of 1927 and 1928 with 0. R. C.
and B. R. T., respectively, as affected by the establishment of switching limits in 1929 and other matters bearing upon the interpretation
of the written contracts and the rights of the parties.
Only after the Adjustment Board has acted can it be known whether
a change in violation of § 6 was proposed or brought about through
the 1943 agreement. If petitioners are correct in their view of their
rights on the merits, and the Adjustment Board so finds, the 1943
contract and the action taken under it were in violation of § 6. If
respondents are right as to the effect of the agreements made prior to
1943, and the Board so finds, no "change" in violation of § 6 was
brought about by the 1943 contract, which in that event becomes
merely declaratory of preexisting rights. The crucial issue is whether
the 1943 agreement "changed," that is, altered the terms of preexisting
contractual rights or merely declared them, a question which only the
Adjustment Board can decide, initially at any rate, since it requires
interpretation of existing collective agreements, not the making of
new or different ones. Cf. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v. Burley, 325 U. S.
711.
2The

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting in part.

326 U. S.

changes being made until these processes have been exhausted or the prescribed waiting period has expired without bringing them into effect. See Trainmen v. Toledo,
P. & W. R. Co., 321 U. S. 50; cf. Elgin, J. & E. R. Co. v.
Burley, 325 U. S. 711.
The decision of the Board will not restore this rightful
status quo for the period required for making its determination, including the time now gone by, or in fact for
any later period. The only relief the Board can give is
either "an administrative declaratory determination" or
an award of money damages, subject to the special provision for judicial review. Although the latter remedy
would afford partial vindication of private rights, it does
not safeguard the public interest, in accordance with the
primary design of § 6.1 And in many cases it may be
impossible for a court to effectuate the Board's decision
for the future with adequate restorative measures.'
. Accordingly I think the District Court should grant
temporary relief to 0. R. C., as was done at the beginning
of this cause," until the rights of the parties have been
ascertained and permanent relief is given or denied. Peti3 In

providing a waiting period before final rupture, with leeway
for mediation and conciliation to work, § 6 has the obvious purpose
not only to prevent infringement of private rights but more especially
to save the public from possible disruption of service. See note 4.
' Although only five jobs are involved in this jurisdictional dispute,
another may involve 500 or 5000. Ordering the reinstatement of any
considerable number of men, once they have been wrongfully thrown
out, to displace others who have taken their places itself involves
the very kind of disruption, or possibility for it, which Congress
sought to ward off by the provisions of § 6. And it is common knowledge that strikes involving large numbers may arise from an employer's adverse action affecting directly only a few employees or
even one.
6The court granted a stay order upon filing of the petition which
remained in effect until April 5, 1943, when the order of reference
to the master was made. Thereafter the trustees made effective the
1943 contract with B. R. T. and, in my opinion, by this action
violated § 6.

ORDER OF CONDUCTORS v. PITNEY.
561

571

RUTLEDGE, J., dissenting in part.

tioners have made a prima facie case,' not only for holding
the cause pending the outcome of the proceedings before
the Adjustment Board but also for temporary injunctive
relief pending that decision. Without such relief the public interest will not be adequately protected nor will the
court's jurisdiction be preserved, in the sense of. power to
afford the full relief required by the policy of the Act.

0 The decision of the Court implies that the petitioners' case is not
frivolous. That it is not is borne out by the following facts, among
others:
The trustees and B. R. T. do not deny that 0. R. C. members had
performed the work in question continuously for more than thirtyfive years or exclusively until the contract of 1943 with B. R. T. was
made and put into effect. They allege no protest against this arrangement until shortly after the 1940 agreement with 0. R. C.
In 1929 the carrier established switching limit boundaries. Respondents say the effect of establishing these limits was generally that
yardmen, represented by B. R. T., should not perform work outside
of them and that roadmen, represented by 0. R. C., should not perform work within them. The five drills in question lie within the
switching limits. 0. R. C. contends that the fixing of switching limits
was not intended to change the previous practice under which road
conductors had customarily manned the five drills. It points to the
fact that road conductors continued to work on the five drills after
the establishment of switching limits and to the further fact that, by
the agreement made in 1940 between 0. R. C. and the carrier, the
latter agreed not to change the then present method of assigning
conductors. 0. R. C. also maintains that the basic agreements, taken
in conjunction with the 1929 establishment of switching limits, did
not prescribe territorial priorities, but merely provided for rates of
pay to be applicable within and without the limits established.

