OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

326 U. S.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSOCIATION v. CORSI, INDUSTRIAL COMMISSIONER OF THE STATE OF

NEW YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 691.

Argued April 3, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.

Section 43 of the New York Civil Rights Law forbids any "labor
organization" to deny any person membership by reason of his
race, color or creed, or to deny any member, by reason of race,
color or creed, equal treatment in designation for employment,
promotion or dismissal by any employer; other sections prescribe
penalties and enforcement procedure. Appellant Railway Mail
Association, an organization of regular and substitute postal clerks,
limits its membership to persons of the Caucasian race and native
American Indians. Held:
1. An appeal from a state court declaratory judgment that § 43
was applicable to the appellant and valid as so applied presents a
justiciable "case or controversy" under §§ 1 and 2 of Article III of
the Federal Constitution. P. 93.
2. Section 43 is not violative of the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment as an interference with appellant's right
of selection of membership nor as an abridgment of its property
rights and liberty of contract. P. 93.
3. The fact that appellant is subject to § 43 as a "labor organization," although excluded (as an organization of government employees) from the benefits of collective bargaining provisions of the
state labor law, involves no denial of equal protection of the laws
under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 94.
4. As applied to appellant, § 43 is not repugnant to the provision
of Art. I, § 8, el. 7 of the Federal Constitution, conferring on Congress power over the postal service. P. 95.
5. Congress has not so clearly manifested an intent to occupy
the field of regulation of organizations of federal employees as to
exclude the state regulation here involved. P. 97.
293 N. Y. 315, 56 N. E. 2d 721, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment upholding the constitutionality of a state law as applied to the appellant association.

Mr. Daniel J. Dugan, with whom Mr. Isadore Bookstein was on the brief, for appellant.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSN. v. CORSI.
Opinion of the Court.

88

Wendell P. Brown, First Assistant Attorney General of
New York, with whom Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney
General, Orrin G. Judd, Solicitor General, and Henry S.
Manley, Assistant Attorney General, were on the brief,
for appellees.
Briefs were filed by Messrs. William H. Hastie, Thurgood Marshall and Leon A. Ransom on behalf of the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People; and by Messrs. Arthur Garfield Hays and Walter
Gordon Merritt on behalf of the American Civil Liberties
Union, as amici curiae, in support of appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellant, Railway Mail Association, questioned
the validity of Section 43, and related Sections 41 and
45, of the New York Civil Rights Law which provide,
under penalty against its officers and members, that no
labor organization shall deny a person membership by
reason of race, color or creed, or deny to any of its members, by reason of race, c6lor or creed, equal treatment in
the designation of its members for employment, promotion or dismissal by an employer.1 Appellant contended
that it was not a "labor organization" subject to these
sections, and that if they were held to apply to it, they
I Section 43 of the New York Civil Rights Law, N. Y. Consol. Laws,
ch. 6, provides:
"As used in this section, the term 'labor organization' means any
organization which exists and is constituted for the purpose, in whole
or in part, of collective bargaining, or of dealing with employers concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or of other
mutual aid or protection. No labor organization shall hereafter,
directly or indirectly, by ritualistic practice, constitutional or by-law
prescription, by tacit agreement among its members, or otherwise,
deny a person or persons membership in its organization by reason
of his race, color or creed, or by regulations, practice or otherwise,
deny to any of its members, by reason of race, color or creed, equal
treatment with all other members in any designation of members to

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

violated the due process and equal protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment of the federal Constitution
and were in conflict with the federal power over post offices
and post roads. Article I, § 8, Clause 7, of the federal Constitution. The New York Court of Appeals rejected these
contentions. On appeal to this Court, consideration of
the question of jurisdiction was postponed to the hearing
on the merits for determination of whether the case presented a "case or controversy" within the meaning of the
federal Constitution. The jurisdiction of this Court rests
on § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code.
The appellant, Railway Mail Association, a New Hampshire corporation, is an organization with a membership
any employer for employment, promotion or dismissal by such employer."
Section 41 of the law, prescribing the penalties for violations of
§ 43, provides:
"... any officer or member of a labor organization, as defined by
section forty-three of this chapter, or any person representing any
organization or acting in its behalf who shall violate any of the
provisions of section forty-three of this chapter or who shall aid or
incite the violation of any of the provisions of such section shall for
each and every violation thereof be liable to a penalty of not less than
one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars, to be recovered by the person aggrieved thereby . . . and such officer or
member of a labor organization or person acting in his behalf, as
the case may be shall, also, for every such offense be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars nor more than five hundred dollars, or
shall be imprisoned not less than thirty days nor more than ninety
days, or both such fine and imprisonment."
Section 45 of the same law provides:
"The industrial commissioner may enforce the provisions of sections . . . forty-three . . . of this chapter. For this purpose he
may use the powers of administration, investigation, inquiry, subpoena, and hearing vested in him by the labor law; he may require
submission at regular intervals or otherwise of information, records
and reports pertinent to discriminatory practices in industries."
2 Railway Mail Association v. Corsi, 293 N. Y. 315, 56 N. E. 2d 721.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSN. v. CORSI.
88

Opinion- of the Court.

of some 22,000 regular and substitute postal clerks of the
United States Railway Mail Service. It has division
and branch associations, thirteen of such branch associations being located in different parts of New York. Article
III of appellant's constitution limits membership in the

association to eligible postal clerks who are of the Caucasian race, or native American Indians8 Certain officers
and members of one of appellant's branch associations
raised the question of the validity of Article III of appellant's constitution with the appellee, the Industrial Commissioner of the State of New York, who was charged with
enforcement of § 43. Faced with the threat of enforcement of the statute against it, the appellant filed suit
against the Industrial Commissioner in a state court for a
declaratory judgment to determine the validity of § 43,
and related provisions, and for an injunction restraining
its enforcement against the appellant. A state Supreme
Court entered judgment for the appellant, finding that
it was not a "labor organization" as defined in § 43 of the
state statute.' On appeal to the Appellate Division, this
judgment was reversed, the appellate court finding that
appellant was covered by § 43 and that §43 as applied to
appellant did not violate the federal Constitution.'
On appeal to the New York Court of Appeals, the judgment against the appellant was affirmed. The Court of
Appeals noted that appellant's constitution provided that
one of the objects of the association was to enable railway

I Constitution,

Railway Mail Association, 1941-43, Article III,

provides:
"Any regular male Railway Postal Clerk or male substitute Rail-

way Postal Clerk of the United States Railway Mail Service, who is
of the Caucasian race, or a native American Indian, shall be eligible
to membership in the Railway Mail Association."
' Railway Mail Association v. Murphy, 180 Misc. 868, 44 N. Y. S.

2d 601.
5 Railway Mail Association v. Corsi, 267 App. Div. 470, 47 N. Y. S.

2d 404.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

postal clerks "to perfect any movement that may be for
their benefit as a class or for the benefit of the Railway
Mail Service . . ."; " that the Industrial Secretary of
the Association 7 was to assist in the presentation of grievances pertaining to service conditions and endeavor to
secure adjustment of such through administrative
action.' It was pointed out that appellant was affiliated
with the American Federation of Labor and that the
appellant was designated a "labor union" in the Bulletin
of the United States Department of Labor as well as in
various trade union publications and reports. Appellant's
own publications claimed credit for bringing "to every
railway postal clerk many material benefits" and "many
additional millions of dollars brought to the pockets of
railway postal clerks each year by the efforts of the Association," and pointed out that "Reforms always come as
a result of demands from the worker. If better conditions
are worth securing, they must come as the result of organized effort."
In the light of this evidence, the Court of
Appeals held appellant to be a "labor organization" as
defined in § 43. As heretofore stated, it rejected appellant's contentions that the statute, as applied to it, violated
the federal Constitution.
6Constitution, Railway Mail Association, 1941-43, Article II,
provides:
"The object of this Association is to conduct the business of a fraternal beneficiary association for the sole benefit of its members and
beneficiaries, and not for profit; to provide closer social relations
among railway postal clerks, to enable them to perfect any movement
that may be for their benefit as a class or for the benefit of the Railway
Mail Service 'nd make provision for the payment of benefits to its
members and their beneficiaries in case of death, temporary or permanent physical disability as a result of accidental means."
IThe Industrial Secretary also has a duty under appellant's constitution, Article VII, § 3 (4), to represent members before the United
States Employees' Compensation Commission.

8Ibid., Article VII, § 3 (3).

9 Railway Mail Association v. Corei, 293 N. Y. 315, 320.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSN. v. CORSI.
Opinion of the Court.

88

Prior to consideration of the issues, it is necessary to
,determine whether appeal from this state court declaratory judgment proceeding presents a justiciable "case or
controversy" under §§ 1 and 2 of Article III of the federal
Constitution. We axe of the opinion that it does. The
conflicting contentions of the parties in this case as to the
validity of the state statute present a real, substantial
:controversy between parties having adverse legal interests,
a dispute definite and concrete, not hypothetical or abstract. Legal rights asserted by appellant are threatened
with imminent invasion by appellees and will be directly
affected to a specific and substantial degree by decision of
the questions of law."0 Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v.
Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 261-62. See Aetna Life Ins. Co.
v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227, 242; Currin v. Wallace, 306
U. S. 1, 9; Gibbs v. Buck, 307 U. S. 66, 76-77; Maryland
Casualty Co. v. Pacific Coal & Oil Co., 312 U. S. 270,
.272-73; Tennessee Coal Co. v. Muscoda Local, 321 U. S.
590, 592. Cf. Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268 U. S. 510.
Appellant first contends that § 43 "' and related §§ 41
and 45 of the New York Civil Rights Law, as applied to
appellant, offends the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment as an interference with its right of selection
to membership and abridgment of its property rights and
liberty of contract. We have here a prohibition of discrimination in membership or union services on account
of race, creed or color. A judicial determination that such
20 One of the appellant's branch associations attempted to admit
into its membership persons not of the Caucasian race. Appellant
denied such applicant's membership, whereupon state officials charged
with the enforcement of § 43, on complaint by certain interested
parties, asserted the applicability of that law to appellant, the invalidity of Article III of appellant's constitution and prepared to
invoke substantial statutory penalties for failure to comply with
§ 43. Appellant asserts the invalidity of the statute and is faced with
,either violating its own constitution or a state statute.
" See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

legislation violated the Fourteenth Amendment would be
a distortion of the policy manifested in that amendment,
which was adopted to prevent state legislation designed
to perpetuate discrimination on the basis of race or color.
We see no constitutional basis for the contention that a
state cannot protect workers from exclusion solely on the
basis of race, color or creed by an organization, functioning under the protection of the state, which holds itself out
to represent the general business needs of employees."
To deny a fellow-employee membership because of race,
color or creed may operate to prevent that employee from
having any part in the determination of labor policies to
be promoted and adopted in the industry and deprive him
of all means of protection from unfair treatment arising
out of the fact that the terms imposed by a dominant union
apply to all employees, whether union members or not.
In their very nature, racial and religious minorities are
likely to be so small in number in any particular industry
as to be unable to form an effective organization for securing settlement of their grievances and consideration of
their group aims with respect to conditions of employment.
The fact that the employer is the Government has no
significance from this point of view."'
Appellant's second ground for attack on the validity of
§ 43, and related provisions, is that equal protection of
the laws is denied to it by the section. Appellant rests its
argument on the fact that Article 20 of the New York
Labor Law,1 ' conferring certain rights on employees and
labor organizations with respect to organization and col12 See Steele v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192; Tunatall v.
Brotherhood of Locomotive Firemen,323 U. S. 210; Thomas v. Collins, 323 U. S. 516, 532.
See 5 U. S. C. § 652, 37 Stat. 555, discussed infra, pp. 96-97.
14
New York State Labor Relations Act. N. Y. Consol. Laws, ch.
31, Art. 20, §§ 700-716. This statute creates a state labor relations
board and contains provisions in aid of employee's rights to organize
and bargain collectively with their employers.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSN. v. CORSI.
88

Opinion of the Court.

lective bargaining, excludes from the operations of its provisions labor organizations, such as the appellant, whose
members are "employees of the state," 15 while § 43 includes the appellant in the definition of "labor organizations" subject to its provisions." Appellant thus contends
that the state could not classify appellant so as to be subject to § 43 and deny it the benefits of the provisions of
Article 20; that the state's failure to extend Article 20 to
include the appellant denies it equal protection. A state
does not deny equal protection because it regulates the
membership of appellant but fails to extend to organizations of government employees provisions relating to collective bargaining. Under customary practices government employees do not bargain collectively with their
employer. The state may well have thought that the problems arising in connection with private employer-employee
relationship made collective bargaining legislation more
urgent and compelling than for government employees.
Cf. Labor Board v. Jones & Laughlin Corp., 301 U. S. 1,
46.
There remains to be considered the appellant's third
contention: that § 43, and related provisions, are repugnant to Article I, § 8, Clause 7, of the federal Constitution,
which confers on Congress the authority over postal matters; that § 43 constitutes an invasion of this field over
which Congress has exclusive jurisdiction and constitutes
an attempt to regulate a federal instrumentality. Government immunity from state tax and regulatory provisions does not extend beyond the federal government
itself and its governmental functions. In the regulation
of its internal affairs, the state inevitably imposes some
burdens on those dealing with the national government of
the same kinds as those imposed on others. Penn Dairies
v. Milk Control Commission, 318 U. S. 261, 270. Section
43 does not impinge on the federal mail service or the
15 N. Y. Consol. Laws, ch. 31, § 715.
' See note 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

96

Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

power of the government to conduct it. It does not burden
the government in its selection of its employees or in its
relations with them. Nor does it operate to define the
terms of that federal employment or relate to any aspect
of it. Section 43 is confined in its application to a purely
private organization deriving no financial or other statutory support or recognition from the federal government
and which in no way acts as an instrumentality of the
federal government in performance of its postal functions.
The operation of the mails is no more affected by this
statute than by a state law requiring annual meetings, or
the election of officers by secret ballot, or by a state insurance regulation applicable to appellant's fraternal benefit
activities. The decided cases which indicate the limits of
state regulatory power in relation to the federal mail service involve situations where state regulation involved a
direct, physical interference with federal activities under
the postal power or some direct, immediate burden on the
performance of the postal functions. Johnson v. Maryland, 254 U. S. 51, 57; Price v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 113
U. S.218, 222; Martin v. Pittsburg & Lake Erie R. Co.,
203 U. S. 284, 292-93. See Ex parte Jackson, 96 U. S.727,
732; In re Rapier, 143 U. S.110, 133. And in at least one
instance this Court has sustained direct state interference
with transmission of the mails where the slight public
inconvenience arising therefrom was felt to be far outweighed by inconvenience to a state in the enforcement
of its laws which would have resulted from a contrary
holding. United States v. Kirby, 7 Wall. 482, 486.
Appellant also argues that the various federal statutes
regulating the terms and conditions of employment of
railway mail clerks indicate an intent on the part of Congress to completely occupy the field of regulation applicable to federal postal employees and their labor organizations." Especial reliance is placed on § 652, Title 5,
U. S. C., 37 Stat. 555, which provides that "Membership
17 39

U. S.C. §§ 601-640.

RAILWAY MAIL ASSN. v. CORSI.
88

FRkNKmTER,

J., concurring.

in any
organization of postal employees not affiliated
with any outside organization imposing an obligation or
duty upon them to engage in any strike, or proposing to
assist them in any strike, against the United States, having
for its objects, among other things, improvements in the
condition of labor of its members, including hours of labor
and compensation therefor and leave of absence . . . or
the presenting by any such person or groups of persons of
any grievance or grievances to the Congress . . . shall not
constitute or be cause for reduction in rank or compensation or removal . . . from said service." The language of
this provision indicates that it had the narrow purpose
of prohibiting discrimination against a federal employee
because of membership in an organization of employees
which did not impose an obligation to strike against the
government. This provision can hardly be deemed to indicate an intent on the part of Congress to enter and completely absorb the field of regulation of organizations of
federal employees. Congress must clearly manifest an
intention to regulate for itself activities of its employees,
which are apart from their governmental duties, before
the police power of the state is powerless. Allen-Bradley
Local v. Wisconsin Board, 315 U. S. 740, 749, and cases
cited. There is no such clear manifestation of Congressional intent to exclude in this case. Nor are we called
upon to consider whether Congress, in the exercise of its
power over the post offices and post roads, could regulate
the appellant organization. Suffice it to say, that we do
not find it to have exercised such power so far and thus
regulation by the states is not precluded.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs

in the result.

MR.JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

The Railway Mail Association is a union of railway
clerks. To operate as a union in New York it must obey

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
FRANKFURTER, J.,

concurring.

326 U. S.

the New York Civil Rights Law. That law prohibits such
an organization from denying membership in the union
by reason of race, color or creed, with all the economic
consequences that such denial entails.
Apart from other objections, which are too unsubstantial to require consideration, it is urged that the Due
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment precludes
the State of New York from prohibiting racial and religious discrimination against those seeking employment.
Elaborately 'to argue against this contention is to dignify
a claim devoid of constitutional substance. Of course a
State may leave abstention from such discriminations to
the conscience of individuals. On the other hand, a State
may choose to put its authority behind one of the cherished aims of American feeling by forbidding indulgence
in racial or religious prejudice to another's hurt. To use
the Fourteenth Amendment as a sword against such State
power would stultify that Amendment. Certainly the
insistence by individuals on their private prejudices as to
race, color or creed, in relations like those now before us,
ought not to have a higher constitutional sanction than
the determination of a State to extend the area of nondiscrimination beyond that which the Constitution itself
exacts.

