AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
60

Syllabu.

gested that there can be no competition because the
railroad now has the business. But the railroad is not
restricted to business which it now has. Between the keypoints it is entitled to any and all business which it can
get. Every future movement of freight will be thesubject
of competition. If, as assumed, the present railroad service is poor as compared with the proposed new motor
carrier service, a new and important competitive element
will certainly be introduced. The railroad wants this
broad certificate so it can better compete with existing
motor carriers. If the railroad really wants a purely
auxiliary service, let the certificate be limited to commodities which have a prior or subsequent rail haul. But
it is not so conditioned. The railroad is entering the motor
carrier field and rendering a pure motor carrier service.
If the policy of Congress is to be honored, there must be a
finding supported by evidence that competition will not
be unduly restrained. On this record no such finding has
been or can be made.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE join in
this dissent.
AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSOCIATIONS, INC. EPT AL.
v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

No. 558. Argued March 28, 29, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.
1. Under §§ 206 (a) and 207 (a) of Part II of the Interstate Commerce Act, -a railroad filed several applications for certificates
authorizing motor carrier operations auxiliary to and supplemental
of its rail service. Some of the routes involved were wholly within
a State, others crossed state lines, and many were contiguous.
Held that, in referring each application to a joint board composed
of one member from each State . which the application showed
that operations were to be conducted, the Commission complied

with § 205 (a). P. 81.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.

78

Statement of the Case.

326 U. S.

2. In the light of the ruling of this Court on the admissibility of certain evidence, the Commission may deem it desirable to consolidate
hearings on the applications, but that is a matter for administrative
discretion. P. 83.
3. In passing upon the railroad's applications for certificates authorizing auxiliary motor carrier operations, the joint boards and the
Commission should have admitted evidence of the flow of traffic by
truck from points covered in one application to points covered by
other applications and evidence of the effect of the railroad's motor
carrier operations, present and prospective, on over-the-road motor
carriers. Other competent and material evidence which protestants
may offer as to the economic effect on the non-rail motor carriers
should also be received. The railroad should be required to furnish
needed statistical evidence which is reasonably available to it, and
may submit evidence on its own behalf. This specification of admissible evidence is without prejudice to the discretion of the
Commission or the joint boards in receiving other evidence deemed
by them or either of them material to the solution of the issues
between the parties. P. 85.
4. In determining whether motor carrier service by a railroad is required by public convenience and necessity, the Commission must
weigh the advantages of improved railroad service against any
serious impairment of over-the-road motor carrier service. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Parker, ante, p. 60. P. 86.
5. Objections that the railroad as a motor carrier has been permitted
through other proceedings to file tariffs violative of § 217 of Part II
of the Interstate Commerce Act, and has been improperly exempted
by the Commission from certain accounting requirements of § 220,
can not sustain a protest against issuance of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity under §§ 206 (a) and 207 (a). P. 86.
6. Upon the evidence, the defense of laches to the suit to set aside the
Commission's orders granting the certificates in this case can not
be sustained. P. 87.
7. Because of the war emergency, and the fact that some trucks are
being operated under certificates issued on the applications, the
mandate herein is stayed until August 1, 1945, to allow opportunity
for such steps as the parties may deem advisable. P. 87.
56 F. Supp. 394, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree of a district court of three judges

dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside orders of

the Interstate Commerce Commission.

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.

79

Opinion of the Court.

77

Mr. J. Ninian Bell, with whom Mr. Roland Rice was on
the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Daniel H. Kunkel, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission; and Mr. Charles T. Abeles, with whom
Messrs. W. R. C. Cocke and Thomas L. Preston were on
the brief, for the Receivers of the Seaboard Air Line
Railway Co., appellees.
MR. JusTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal involves the applicability by the Interstate
Commerce Commission of the legal criteria for the issuance of certificates of convenience and necessity for motor
truck operation by a railroad which were discussed in the
opinion in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Parker,
ante, p. 60.
In these applications Legh R. Powell and Henry W.
Anderson, Receivers of the Seaboard Air Line Railway
Company, sought certificates of convenience and necessity
under Sections 206 (a) and 207 (a), Motor Carrier Act,
1935, 49 Stat. 551, as amended by the Transportation Act
of 1940, Interstate Commerce Act, part II, 54 Stat. 923,
for the operation of motor trucks as auxiliary to and supplemental of the railroad operation of Seaboard. These
motor routes were sought to improve the delivery of
less-than-carload freight to way stations of the railroad.
Fourteen applications are involved.1 The routes in issue
paralleled the main line of the Seaboard for the greater
portion of the distance between Richmond, Virginia, and
Jacksonville, Florida. Other controverted routes served
shorter railway lines in North Carolina, South Carolina
2The

detailed scope of thirteen of the applications is set out in the

appendices to the reports of the Commission, 17 M. C. C. at 433; 28
M. C. C. at 25, and that of Sub-No. 19-Tampa-Sebring, Florida,
route, in 21 M. C. C. at 776.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

and Florida. Still other similar motor routes are operated
by the Seaboard under orders of the Commission which
are not now in controversy. Well above a hundred way
stations will be served by the proposed applications. Objections to the applications were made by existing
motor carriers along the routes and by various trucking
organizations.
The Commission set the applications for hearing before
joint boards pursuant to its interpretation of § 205 (b),
Motor Carrier Act of 1935, as amended, § 20 (c), Transportation Act of 1940. Diverse recommended reports and
orders were issued by the joint boards. A number of the
applications were consolidated for argument before the
Commission; others were dealt with on the exceptions to
the joint board reports or by individual hearing. As the
Seaboard was the only applicant and the issues were similar, the applications were disposed of as a single proceeding. Seaboard Air Line R. Co., Motor OperationsGaston-Garnett,S. C., 17 M. C. C. 413; 21 M. C. C. 773;
28 M. C. C. 5; 34 M. C. C. 441.
The Commission granted the applications upon a finding that the proposed motor operations were a specialized
type coordinated with rail operations. See Thomson v.
United States, 321 U. S. 19. The specially constituted
District Court affirmed the order of the Commission
against attack because the certificates were granted without regard to their effect on existing motor carriers--a
ground considered today in Interstate Commerce Commission v. Parker, supra-and over the additional objections that the joint boards were improperly constituted,
that material evidence on the effect of the proposed operations on the existing or over-the-road motor truck service
was excluded by the joint boards and the Commission and
that the Seaboard was exempted from the tariff provisions
of § 217 and the accounts and record provision of § 220
and the regulations thereunder. The appellees asserted

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
77

Opinion of the Court.

that laches barred the court proceedings to enjoin the
order of the Commission. The same issues are here.
Nothing more need be said as to the contentions which
were discussed in the Parkercase. The district court proceedings and this appeal are authorized by 28 U. S. C.
§ 41 (28) and §§ 43-48 and § 345.*
Joint Boards. From the earliest hearing, objection was
made to the composition of the joint boards. Section
205 (a), so far as pertinent here, provides:
"The Commission shall, when operations of motor carriers
or brokers conducted or proposed to be conducted involve
not more than three States, . . . refer to a joint board

for appropriate proceedings thereon, any of the following matters arising in the administration of this part with
respect to such operations: Applications for certificates,
permits, or licenses; . . .

The joint board to which any

such matter is referred shall be composed solely of one
member from each State within which the motor-carrier
or brokerage operations involved in such matter are or are
proposed to be conducted . . ."

The applications were for short routes of varying lengths
up to nearly two hundred miles. Many were contiguous.
Some crossed state lines. Others were wholly within a
state. The Commission referred each application to a
joint board composed of one member from the state or
states in which the route involved in the particular
application was situated.
As the series of applications cover continuous motor
routes for a large portion of the railroad, appellants contend that the Commission should have consolidated these
applications, constituted a board and made its reference
as though there were only a single application for motor
2The United States answered in the District Court and confessed
error on all points. The Interstate Commerce Commission and the
Seaboard supported the challenged order. The Government is represented here only by the Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

carrier service which was to be fully integrated with the
Seaboard system in the six states which the railroad traverses, or at least Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida, in which states are located all the routes
for which applications axe made. If this position is correct the joint boards should have had four or six members
instead of the one or two members who actually composed
them. We are of the opinion that the statute does not
support appellants.
It will be noted that § 205 (a) requires that applications
for certificates be referred to joint boards composed solely
of members from the state within which the operations
are proposed to be conducted. In these applications the
proposal is to conduct operations in a single state or in
some instances in two states. The only source of knowledge for the Commission as to proposed operations were
the applications. It seems necessary for it, therefore, to
rely on the representations in the applications in determining their scope and in designating the joint boards to
hear them.
The Commission has so interpreted the act. See Argo &
Collier Truck Lines, Common Carrier Application, 27
M. C. C. 563, 566; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., Extension
of Operation,30 M. C. C. 490, 491-2. These applications
did not disclose or propose any interchange or unification
of the traffic among the respective routes. Any one of
them, or all except one, might have been refused by the
Commission. Consequently, the Commission properly
referred each application to a board having a member
solely from the state or states in which the application
proposes to conduct operations.
But the appellant contends that the grant of appellee's
applications allows a unified service in three states and
that appellee may have intended this result when it filed
the several applications. Assuming this to be true, it does
not make the Commission's action in the designation of

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
77

83

Opinion- of the Court.

separate boards unlawful. It is impossible for the Commission to predict accurately such a result or determine
the existence of such an intent at the time an application
is filed-at which time the Commission must designate a
board for hearings. In most instances the intent or purpose of the applicant would become apparent only when
hearings were held on the applications. Thus the appellant's position would require reassignment of cases to differently constituted joint boards as the scope of the
application was narrowed or expanded by the testimony
and arguments of the parties or conclusion of the joint
boards or the Commission in the course of the hearing.
See SeaboardAir Line R. Co., Motor Operations-GastonGarnett, S. C., 17 M. C. C. 413, 416-17. It may be that
in the light of our ruling on the admissibility of certain
evidence the Commission may wish to consolidate hearings
on the applications, but that is a matter for administrative
discretion.
Excluded Evidence. Appellants throughout the proceedings have sought to introduce evidence both before
the joint boards and the Commission as to the economic
effect on the existing motor carriers of the proposed railway operation of motor trucks and have persisted in their
objections at each stage of the proceedings. The joint
boards refused to permit evidence as to conditions on any
route except that covered by the application under consideration. Protestants made repeated efforts before the
Commission to secure consolidation of the joint board
hearings but were unsuccessful. After the grant of the
certificates with the limitation of operations to a prior or
subsequent movement by rail on July 11, 1939, 17 M. C. C.
413, and February 17, 1940, 21 M. C. C. 773, the proceedings were reopened to consider the modification of
the rail movement requirement in prior orders 8 Sub8Sub-No. 19 was modified in 34 M. C.C. 441.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

stitution of the key-point requirement or its equivalent
for rail movement was made on January 24, 1941, Kansas
City Southern Transport Co., Common Carrier Application, 28 M. C. C. 5. On October 3, 1941, all applications
were reopened solely for reexamination of Condition 3,
the key-point condition, as to whether it "should be modified and, if so, the extent of such modification." This
hearing was on all applications and before an examiner
of the Commission alone. At that hearing the protestants
pressed for the introduction and admission of further
evidence as set up in their petition to which reference is
about to be made. 34 M. C. C. 441, 442. This petition
sought permission to introduce evidence as to the economic effect on the independent trucking industry and
a direction to the Seaboard to furnish statistics as to the
traffic it proposed to handle by truck." The petition was
denied without a statement as to the Commission's reasons for the denial. 34 M. C. C. 441, 442. This we think
was erroneous.
' Two paragraphs of the petition read as follows:
"(b) To direct the taking of evidence for the purpose of developing and determining whether the proposed and existing operations
by applicant, considered together, and in connection with its transportation policy and the transportation policy of railroads, express
companies, water carriers, and railroad associations with which it is
associated, will unduly restrain competition; impair sound economic
conditions in the independent trucking industry; result in unfair and
destructive competitive practices; discriminate against shippers; or
otherwise be inconsistent with the provisions of, or the transportation
policy declared in, the Interstate Commerce Act, and with the Antitrust Laws."
"(f) To direct the Seaboard Air Line Railway to furnish such
statistical information for the record as may be necessary to enable
the Commission to determine the extent, quantity, kind and character of traffic which Seaboard Air Line Railway handles subject to
restrictions against participation by independent motor carriers, and
the quantity, kind and character of traffic which Seaboard Air Line
proposes to handle by truck and upon which it relies for support of
its application for a certificate of convenience' and necessity."

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
77

85

Opinion of the Court.

The bill of complaint sets up in sections VIII and XI
numerous types or items of evidence which it alleges were
excluded by the joint boards or the Examiner. Some of
these items, such as "The refusal of the railroad to enter
into arrangements with the independent motor carriers"
or "Use of railroad facilities and employees," hardly require proof. They are admitted by all parties. Other
items have had considerable proof introduced and more
may be deemed by the Commission cumulative or unnecessary. "Cost of operations" would be an example.
There is considerable overlapping of some categories of
proposed evidence. For instance one item is "The economic effect on existing motor carriers" and "Destructive
competition flowing from subsidized truck operations."
Therefore we do not determine that all the items of evidence as set out by appellants, either in their bill of complaint or the petition before the Commission, were improperly excluded.
We think that it is sufficient to say that the joint boards
and the Commission should have admitted evidence of
the flow of traffic by truck from points covered in one
application to points covered by other applications and
evidence of the effect of the motor traffic, developed or
prospective on all Seaboard routes for which applications
are pending or already granted, on the over-the-road
motor carriers. Furthermore other competent and material evidence which the protestants may produce as to
the economic effect on the non-rail motor carriers should
be received. The applicant will of course be required to
furnish needed statistical evidence which is reasonably
available to it and will have opportunity to submit evidence upon its own part. This specification of admissible evidence shall not be deemed to restrict the discretion of the Commission or the joint boards in receiving
other evidence deemed by them or either of them material
to aid in the solution of the issues between the parties.

86

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

While as pointed out by the brief of the Seaboard none
of this evidence goes "to the inherent nature of auxiliary
motor service performed by rail carriers," it may be decisive in the Commission's determination of whether to
grant the applications. We have just said in the Parker
case that the Commission must weigh the advantages of
improved rail traffic against the injury to the over-theroad motor carriers to determine where public convenience
and necessity lies. It is a difficult task to appraise these
conflicting interests. It is a problem which should be
solved only after the receipt by the Commission, under its
usual rules of admissibility, of all available material evidence as to the probable effect of the proposals on the
operations both of the proponents of and the protestants
against the applications. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. Co., 227 U. S. 88, 91;
Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 264-65. It is not
enough that the railroad's motor operations are found by
the Commission to be of a different character from overthe-road motor operations because they are integrated
with railroad operation. The Commission must also consider the disadvantage to the public of a serious impairment of the non-rail motor carriers. Those affected are
entitled to fully develop the bearing of the proposals on
the transportation agencies which are involved. The discretion of the Commission should be exercised after consideration of all relevant information.
Appellants have other objections to the order of the
Commission which have been considered and a few words
need to be said about only two of them. It is objected
that the railroad as a motor carrier has been permitted
through other proceedings to file illegal tariffs, violative
of § 217 of part II of the Interstate Commerce Act, and
has been improperly exempted by the Commission from
certain accounting requirements of § 220 of the same part

AMERICAN TRUCKING ASSNS. v. U. S.
77

87

Opinion of the Court.

to which the other motorcarriers are subject." These are
obviously not grounds upon which appellants can base
an argument against the grant of a certificate of convenience and necessity.
Appellees on their part suggest that the Commission's
grant of the requested certificates should be sustained
because of laches. The final certificate was issued on
November 30, 1942, and this suit was brought October 21,
1943, eleven months later. The appellees' evidence as to
change of position in reliance upon the certificate is not
impressive. There was no specific proof of the purchase
of equipment in reliance on the certificate or of failure
to purchase other equipment, such as railroad cars, in
reliance on the use of trucks. There was some testimony
of minor adjustments in methods of operation. A number of the routes had not been put in operation and others
were abandoned. The question of laches was not passed
on by the district court.
In view of this evidence, we do not feel the defense of
laches should be sustained.
As some trucks are being operated under certificates
which were issued on these applications, because of the
present war emergency we direct that the mandate herein
be stayed until August 1, 1945, to allow opportunity for
such steps as the respective parties may deem advisable.
See Yonkers v. United States, 320 U. S. 685, 321 U. S. 745;
Public Service Commission v. United States, 323 U. S.
675.
Reversed.
MR. Jus~icE BLACK, MR. JusrcE. DouGLAs and MR.
JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concur for the reasons stated in the
dissenting opinion in Interstate Commerce Commission v.
Parker,ante, p. 74.
5 A method of objection to improper practices, such as unreasonable
tariffs or irregular accounting, by motor carriers under Interstate
Commerce Act, part II, is provided by § 204 (c), as amended.

