BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.

179

Counsel for Parties.

BARRETT LINE, INC. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 630. Argued April 2, 1945.-Decided June 18, 1945.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission denying appellant's application for "grandfather" rights under § 309 (f) of Part
III of the Interstate Commerce Act to engage in the business of a
contract carrier by water, held erroneous so far as it related to
appellant's chartering operations. Pp. 180, 199.
The Commission erred in concluding that appellant was not engaged in chartering operations subject to Part III on the critical
date, for failure to show "the nature of the services rendered, the
commodities carried in, or the points served with such vessels."
P. 196.
2. An applicant for "grandfather" rights under § 309 (f) is not
required to show, so far as chartering operations are concerned,
that his chartering operations during the critical period included
carriage of nonexempt goods. P. 196.
3. The Commission's denial to appellant of "grandfather" rights
under § 309 (f) for contract carrier operations other than chartering, and denial under § 309 (g) of a permit for a "new operation,"
are sustained by the findings and the evidence. Pp. 199, 200.
Affirmed in part; reversed in part.
APPEAL

from a decree of a district court of three judges

dismissing the complaint in a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Robert E. Quirk for appellant.
Mr. Walter J. Cummings, Jr., with whom Solicitor
General Fahy, Messrs. Daniel W. Knowlton and Allen
Crenshawwere on the brief, for the United States and the
Interstate Commerce Commission; and Mr. Harry C.
Ames, with whom Messrs. Wilbur La Roe, Jr. and R.
Granville Curry were on the brief, for the American Barge
Line Co. et al., appellees.

180

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE RUTEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Interstate Commerce Commission denied appellant
a permit to act as a contract water carrier under the
Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 898, Part III of the
Interstate Commerce Act. A three-judge District Court
dismissed the complaint which sought review of that order.
The appeal is from this judgment.
In May, 1941, appellant applied for a permit to carry
general commodities, with exceptions not now material,

between points on the Mississippi River and its tributaries. The authority sought was to "continue an operation in existence January 1, 1940, and continuously thereafter," as a contract carrier of property over irregular
routes, pursuant to "grandfather rights" claimed under

§ 309 (f) of Part III.1 A year later, while the grandfather
application was pending, appellant filed another application as a precautionary measure. This sought, in the
alternative, leave to perform the same service as a new
' Section 309 (f) provides in part:
"Except as otherwise provided in. this section and section 311, no
person shall engage in the business of a contract carrier by water
unless he or it holds an effective permit, issued by the Commission
authorizing such operation: Provided, That, subject to section 310,
if any such carrier or a predecessor in interest was in bona fide operation as a contract carrier by water on January 1, 1940, over the route
or routes or between the ports with respect to which application is
made, and has so operated since that time (or, if engaged in furnishing
seasonal service only, was in bona fide operation during the seasonal
period, prior to or including such date, for operations of the character
in question) except, in either event, as to interruptions of service
over which the applicant or its predecessor in interest had no control,
the Commission shall issue such permit, without further proceedings,
if application for such permit is made to the Commission as provided
in subsection (g) .. ." 49 U. S. C. § 909 (f).
Section 310 relates to dual operation as common and contract carrier, § 311 to temporary operations.

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

181

Opinion of the Court.

operation "consistent with the public interest and the
national transportation policy" under § 309 (g) .'
Protests were filed by other carriers and the two applications were heard together before an examiner in September, 1942. He concluded that the showing did not
warrant granting of the grandfather application, but recommended granting of the permit under §309 (g). Division IV however denied both applications, that under §309
(f) for failure to make the required showing of actual
operations on and after the crucial date, the one under
§ 309 (g) on the ground that appellant had "failed to show
that it is proposing any new operation, or that a new operation by it would be consistent with the public interest or
the national transportation policy, or that present or future public convenience and necessity require such operation." A petition for reconsideration by the full
Commission was denied and the District Court adopted
its findings and conclusions in a per curiam opinion.
The evidence consisted of exhibits and the testimony of
appellant's president, Barrett. The story is of an old-style
'Section 309 (g) provides:
....

Subject to section 310, upon application the Commission

shall issue such permit if it finds that the applicant is fit, willing, and
able properly to perform the service proposed and to conform to the
provisions of this part and the requirements, rules, and regulations
of the 'Commission thereunder, and that such operation will be consistent with the public interest and the national transportation policy
declared in this Act. The business of the carrier and the scope thereof
shall be specified in such permit and there shall be attached thereto
at time of issuance and from time to time thereafter such reasonable
terms, conditions, and limitations, consistent with the character of
the holder as a contract carrier by water, as are necessary to carry
out the requirements of this part or those lawfully established by
the Commission pursuant thereto: Provided, however, That no terms,
conditions, or limitations shall restrict the right of the carrier to
substitute or add contracts within the scope of the permit, or to
add to his equipment, facilities, or service, within the scope of the
permit, as the development of the business and the demands of the
carrier's patrons shall require." 49 U. S. C. § 909 (g).

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

family institution which, for four generations, has had
part in life on the Mississippi and its tributaries. As told
by Captain Barrett, the line not only pioneered in the
great development of inland water transportation of the
middle nineteenth century. Its history has been constantly, during this century, one of pioneering in various
fields of water transportation. And thereby, the inference
seems justified, hangs the reason for its survival in an age
when water transportation, like so much else of industry,
has been taken over largely by corporate or governmental
enterprise. Now the vicissitudes of regulation have been
added to those of competition, appellant urges, to threaten
its continuance.
The concern, incorporated in 1926 as successor to individual and partnership forms of operation, remains small.
At the time of the hearing it owned twenty-one barges
and two towboats, with two derrick boats and other equipment. Cincinnati is the port of registration; Cairo, Illinois, the situs of the fleet by reason of its accessibility to
conjunctions of many rivers.
Operations historically have been highly selective and
varied in character. Since 1910, at any rate, they have
been limited generally to bulk materials, the greater number of which may be subjected to exposure to weather without damage, such as scrap iron, pig iron, fabricated steel,
piping, bauxite ore, coal, paving brick, and stone, excluding such items as furniture. At one time or another,
however, automobiles, sulphur, powder, grains, salt and
petroleum products have been carried. So far as appears,
the line has not held itself out in this period as a common carrier and does not now seek to become one. Its
business has been strictly by special contract, negotiated
with reference to the season, the course of the river required for the operation, times of loading and unloading,
and other special factors. It is, in other words, an irregular
operator performing what it characterizes as "special and

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

183

Opinion of the Court.

sporadic services under special contracts and conditions."
The sporadic as well as the special character of the service
becomes important, as will appear, for appellant's position
on the issues.
The nature of the service and the character of the
equipment are correlated. The barges are of steel construction, designed to carry dry or liquid cargo, the latter
by adding piping and fittings when required. At the time
of the hearing, nine had been converted in this way and
were used in petroleum traffic, three by appellant and
six under charter to the Standard Oil Company of Ohio.
Of those remaining, six were under charter, to be converted to petroleum carriers; two were being used in
carriage of coal; and four were "available for such use
as we put them to." Captain Barrett testified that if
the movement of petroleum products should cease the
tankers readily could be reconverted for hauling dry
cargo.
The service includes freighting, either with appellant's
own barges and power or by towing barges owned by
others. In addition appellant engages in chartering, including the leasing or chartering of equipment, at times
with crew, to others. The chartering, according to Captain Barrett, involves "wide ramifications," often with
difficulty in determining "just who is the operator,
whether it is the shipper who is responsible, and therefore, the operator, or whether it is the carrier, who
furnishes the equipment."
To establish its right to a permit, whether "grandfather" or "new operation," appellant offered evidence
consisting of an exhibit listing all of its operations from
January 1, 1936, to August 11, 1942, with information
concerning the name of the customer, origin and destination, and nature of the cargo. No effort was made to
prove specific operations in similar detail prior to the
former date. But a written "Statement of the History,

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Type and Scope of Operations and Services of The Barrett Line, Inc.," substantiated by the testimony of Captain Barrett, described in a general way the character and
scope of such movements.
The general effect of the historical evidence was to show
the varied and sporadic character of the operations from
about 1910. It appeared that the company might be
without contracts or business for intervals of several
months at a time. Much of its activity was in the nature
of "pioneering trades." In brief this consisted in demonstrating the feasibility of water transportation for particular commodities. Generally, when the demonstration
had been made, the result was for the shipper or another
to take over the operation and appellant then would await
or seek another similar opportunity. 8
The evidence, being general in character, was lacking to
a large extent in dates concerning specific operations during the latter part of the period; so that for some ten or
twelve years prior to January 1, 1936, it is difficult to gather
what specific kinds of movements were being made, for
whom, between what points and with reference to what
materials. However, the general inference would seem
justified that any suited to the equipment and the rather
8Thus, according to the testimony, the line pioneered in the transportation by water of petroleum in 1912 or earlier; of steel pipes from
Pittsburgh in 1920; of powder in the same year; of automobiles to
points downstream from Pittsburgh and Cincinnati; of bauxite ore
for the Aluminum Ore Company; of paving brick to New Orleans; of
riprap stone used by the Engineer Corps for paving river banks, etc.
Frequently the demonstration resulted in appellant's supplying
equipment to the shipper when the latter took over the business as,
for instance, when the Standard Oil Company of Louisiana purchased
boats and barges to continue the demonstrated petroleum operation
with its own fleet. Other instances included sales to Atlas Cement Co.
and Carnegie Steel Co.
Miscellaneous services also were rendered to other carriers, before
and after 1936, including relief of grounded or disabled vessels, raising
of sunken vessels, storage of barges or vessels, etc.

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

185

Opinion of the Court.

indefinite criteria used for negotiating contracts were taken
when opportunity offered; otherwise the fleet remained
idle.
On the other hand, the evidence supplied by the exhibit
concerning movements between January 1, 1936, and
August 11, 1942, is much more definite. In all instances
where the specific character of the cargo is mentioned,
except one shipment of fabricated steel and piling in 1936,
either stone or petroleum products, including gasoline and
furnace oil, exempt commodities, are mentioned. A very
considerable number of items designate "Miscellaneous
Cargo" and there were some 44 instances noted simply as
"charter," without reference to character of the cargo,
including 23 in which equipment was leased or chartered
to shippers not carriers subject to the Act. A few items
specified vessel storage, "damaged barge," steamer
aground, furnishing steam and like services to other carriers. In two instances "towing" was specified for "U. S.
Engineers."
The "miscellaneous cargo" items largely involved towing loaded barges of other carriers, including the American
Barge Line and the Mississippi Valley Barge Line. In
some instances Barrett identified the specific cargoes, as,
for example, a movement of the former company's barges
loaded with scrap iron, sugar and molasses and some of
the latter's bearing packaged freight. In such cases, however, since only motive power was furnished, and to
another carrier, appellant disclaimed relying upon the
movements "to establish that he [it] is a common carrier
of general commodities," but put them in "to show the
general sweep and character of the service performed" as
a contract carrier. Barrett testified that appellant did
not always know what was in such barges, that the charges
were on a per diem basis and it therefore made no difference to appellant what was in the barges.
The difference, if any, between this towing and chartering when labelled as such is somewhat nebulous, if indeed

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

it is at all material. But concerning the latter the witness
gave similar testimony: that appellant's charges, whether
for motive power, barges or both, were on a per diem
basis, except in one instance specifying a barrel rate; and
that appellant was not concerned with the character of
the cargo or where the boats went, although the company's
trip sheets, not presented in evidence, would show the
latter.
The only evidence, apart from the exhibit, as to operations after January 1, 1940, consisted in Barrett's testimony, summarized above, relating to appellant's equipment and its use at the time of the hearing. This, as may
be recalled, related exclusively to transportation of petroleum products, directly or under charter; the use of two
barges for carrying coal; the availability of four others
"for such use as we put them to."
It should be added that, according to the evidence, one
factor inducing the concentration upon petroleum products after 1940 was the effect of the war emergency upon
the carriage of these products from southwestern producing fields to central and eastern communities, together
with encouragement the line received from officials of
the Government to convert its barges into tankers and
engage in this business. It seems obvious that, with
return to normal modes of transportation as the war
emergency passes, and the development of new facilities
accelerated by it, the life span of this concentration is
likely to repeat appellant's typical "pioneering" performance.
Appellant and the Commission are at odds upon the
effects of the showing made concerning movements on
and after January 1, 1936, and as to whether the Commission erroneously refused to take account of earlier
ones shown by the history prior to that time. The Commission thought that it should disregard them, more
particularly with reference to the "grandfather" applica-

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

187

Opinion of the Court.

tion, as being too remote to substantiate the claim of
"bona fide operation" on the crucial date within § 309 (f);'
and found that the movements shown after January 1,
1936, were insufficient to establish the claimed rights
because all, except one, were of exempt commodities,
including petroleum products which were the only ones
carried after January 1, 1940, except coal, which also is
exempt.
Caught between the upper and nether millstones, so to
speak, of denial of "grandfather" rights and a permit for
new operations," appellant questions the Commission's
limitation of evidence to be considered to that affecting
operations after January 1, 1936; its evaluation of the evidence taken into account, particularly that relating to
chartering, as showing transportation of exempt commodities only; its interpretation of the statutory provisions in
their bearing upon these issues, especially as requiring a
showing that chartering operations include nonexempt
commodities to justify issuance of a permit; its conclusion
that the showing was not sufficient to support the application for "grandfather" rights; and the further conclusions
4

The opinion of Division IV stated: "The term 'bona fide operations' has been interpreted to mean a holding out substantiated by
actual operations consistent therewith. Actual operations in order
to substantiate a claimed holding out on January 1, 1940, must have
been within a reasonable length of time from that date. What constitutes a reasonable length of time may vary with the particular
circumstances in each proceeding but one shipment made in 1936 and
others at an indefinite period of time prior thereto are entirely too
remote to establish bona fide operations on January 1, 1940, and
continuously since."
aThe grandfather rights were denied, of course, because in the
Commission's view, the operations shown to sustain them were too far
removed in the past. On the other hand, the permit for new operations was denied, according to its brief, because "appellant proposed
no change in mode of operation but planned to continue doing business
as in the past."

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

concerning the showing as affecting the application to
perform new operations.
The short effect of appellant's position is that the Commission's action has limited it to transportation of exempt
commodities only and that, if so limited, grave injury will
result for its business. It maintains that, in view of its
history and the facts properly interpreted, it is entitled to
a permit for the transportation of commodities generally,
throughout the Mississippi system, including its tributaries, and that the permit preferably should be under the
grandfather clause; if not, then for a "new operation."
The controversy has become most crucial in relation to
chartering. The Commission found that these activities
related, in the crucial period and on the showing made,
only to exempt commodities, for carriage of which authority is not required,6 and concluded that appellant was
therefore not engaged in chartering operations subject to
Part III or entitled to a permit for them. The opinion
stated: ". . . the only transportation which might be
subject to regulation under part III was that of chartering
of vessels to shippers. However, no showing is made as to
the nature of the services rendered, the commodities carried in, or the points served with such vessels. On such
meager showing we would not be warranted in finding that
applicant, on January 1, 1940, and continuously since,
was engaged in chartering operations subject to part III
of the act."
6Exemption is provided by § 303 for various kinds of transportation
including, under limitations specified, carriage of bulk commodities
when the vessel is used to transport not more than three, § 303 (b);

carriage of liquid cargoes in bulk in certified tankers, § 303 (d);
transportation solely within the limits of a single harbor, § 303 (g).
The Commission has uniformly denied permits or certificates where
only exempt transportation is involved. Cf. Upper Mississippi Towing Corp., Common CarrierApplication, 260 I. C. C. 292, 293; Gallagher Bros. Sand & Gravel Corp., Contract CarrierApplication, 280

I. C.C. 224, 225.

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

189

Opinion of the Court.

Appellant attacks this finding and the conclusion as
contrary to law. The argument is founded upon § 302 (e),
which defines "contract carrier by water" and provides
that the furnishing of a vessel under charter or lease to a
person other than a carrier subject to the Act, for use in
transporting the latter's property, shall be considered to
constitute "engaging in transportation" within the meaning of the definition of "contract carrier by water." '
Although it is true that no permit is required if only
exempt commodities are carried in chartered vessels,
appellant construes § 302 (e) to entitle it to a permit if on
the crucial date it was engaged in bona fide chartering
operations, without regard to whether the commodities
actually carried were exempt or nonexempt. In this view
the Act is not concerned, so far as it relates to chartering,
with the character of the commodity, but takes account
only of the furnishing of the vessel; and the Commission,
by requiring a showing as to the nature of the commodity,
added a requirement not included or authorized by the
statute.
Accordingly, since the evidence clearly disclosed numerous charter operations within the critical period,
appellant draws two conclusions: (1) that it was entitled
to grandfather rights for chartering, as such, and to a
Section 302 (e) in pertinent part is as follows:
"The term 'contract carrier by water' means any person which,
under individual contracts or agreements, engages in the transportation (other than transportation referred to in paragraph (d) and the
exception therein) by water of passengers or property in interstate or
foreign commerce for compensation.
"The furnishing for compensation (under a charter, lease, or other
agreement) of a vessel, to a person other than a carrier subject to
this Act, to be used by the person to whom such vessel is furnished
in the transportation of its own property, shall be considered to
constitute, as to the vessel so furnished, engaging in transportation

for compensation by the person furnishing such vessel, within the

meaning of the foregoing definition of 'contract carrier by water'."
49 U. S. C. §902 (e).

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

permit for such operations which would allow it to
charter vessels for carriage of nonexempt as well as exempt
cargo, without reference to its character in this respect;
and (2), this being so, it was "engaged in transportation"
of both exempt and nonexempt commodities on the critical
date and therefore, under the Commission's rulings
relating to such situations, was entitled to a permit authorizing not only chartering but also transportation of
commodities generally.
Appellant relies especially upon the Commission's
decision in C. F. Harms Co., Contract CarrierApplication,
260 I. C. C. 171, rendered January 4, 1944, after the complaint had been filed in this cause; ' with emphasis also
upon Russell Bros. Towing Case, 250 I. C. C. 429, and
Moran Towing & TransportationCo. Case, 250 I. C. C.
541; 2601. C. C. 269.
In these cases permits were granted either to a "furnisher
of vessels" or to towers without limitation as to commodities, on the basis of such a holding out, except that
in the Moran case the tower had no official knowledge of
the contents of the loaded barges. Appellant regards these
decisions as inconsistent with the Commission's action in
this case. The Commission distinguishes them, however,
on the basis that the evidence disclosed operations affecting both exempt and nonexempt goods. The intervening
protestants characterize appellant's "strategy," particularly in its reliance upon the Russell Bros. case, as follows:
"It hopes first to have itself made subject to the act as
a 'furnisher of vessels' and, having established that fingerhold, to bring to its aid the doctrine of the Russell Bros.
case that both regulated and unregulated activities should
be considered in determining rights."
sThree

decisions were rendered in the Harms matter. The first

gave authority to furnish vessels limited to scrap iron and to specified
ports, 250 I. C. C. 513; the second removed the commodity limitation,
250 I. C. C. 685; the third, by the full Commission, removed the
"territorial" limitation, 260 I. C. C. 171.

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

191

Opinion of the Court.

If the Commission's premise were valid, that a furnisher
of vessels must show, as of the critical date, that his operations included nonexempt commodities or, as its opinion
stated, "the nature of the services rendered, the commodities carried in, or the points served with such vessels,"
we would nevertheless be in doubt concerning the validity
of its ruling that no sufficient showing was made in this
case.

Appellant's exhibit disclosed 43 or 44 chartering opera,
tions in the period taken by the Commission as evidential,
designated simply as "charter." All but two specified
Cairo, Illinois, as both origin and destination. In the
brief it is suggested these were therefore exempt under
§ 303 (g) relating to transportation in a single harbor.
The suggestion flies flatly in the face of the uncontradicted
testimony given by Captain Barrett that Cairo was
designated in these instances because it was the situs of
the fleet, appellant was chartering or leasing the equipment on a per diem basis, was therefore not interested in
the contents or character of the cargo or where the vessel
went, and that these operations were not confined to the
Cairo harbor but that point was designated because it was
the place where the movement began and the equipment
was delivered when it ended. The effect of this evidence
is not nullified, as seems to be suggested in the brief,
because the witness also testified that the chartered vessels
were run with appellant's crews, the masters were handed
manifests disclosing the cargoes carried, and the trip sheets
would reveal where the vessels went. Any other than the
most rigid construction would regard those facts as supporting, rather than impairing, the claim of engaging in
general chartering operations without limitation to
exempt commodities or particular points of loading and
unloading.
Similar restrictive inferences are drawn in the brief to
support "probable exemptions" in nearly all the other in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

stances of chartering, including six in 1937 as "too remote"
though within the period considered. Of these, some
19 or 20, relating to chartering to other carriers subject to
regulation, seem justified. But with them eliminated,
23 instances of chartering to shippers who were not carriers
remain to support the claim. We are unable to accept the
view that they constituted so meager a showing as to justify on this ground withholding a permit for chartering.
In the Moran case the Commission said:
"We think it unnecessary in this case to determine
whether the services performed were or were not actually
subject to the act. The nature of the cargo in the vessels
towed is usually the determining factor as to whether or
not the service is exempt, but applicant's towage service
is performed without regard to the nature of the cargo
loaded in the vessels towed by it." 260I. C. C. 269, 272.
In the Russell Bros. case the Commission stated, with
reference to the definition of a common carrier by water in
Part III and the "grandfather" requirement of bona fide
operation on the critical date:
"It will be noted that in neither instance is there any
reference to whether the transportation performed by the
carrier is or is not subject to regulation. In determining
a carrier's status and the scope of its operations during the
'grandfather' period, its entire operation should be considered, and not merely that part which the Congress has seen
fit to make subject to regulation. To find that 'grandfather' rights may be granted only to the extent that a
showing is made as to the performance of regulated transportation requires the reading into the law of language
which, in fact, is not there." 250 I. C.C.429, 433-434.'
9The opinion continued: "This matter is particularly important in
instances like the present where an applicant is seeking a certificate
covering all commodities, or general cargo. Obviously no carrier
actually transports all commodities, and therefore the bona fides of
an applicant's operations depend on the representative character of

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

Opinion of the Court.

Notwithstanding the Commission's insistence that these
cases are distinguishable, as resting upon different showings, it is difficult to accept that view if, as the Moran
opinion indicates, the crucial fact to be shown is performance of service "without regard to the nature of the cargo
loaded in the vessels towed by it." The conclusion is even
more difficult if, as the Russell Bros. opinion states, "To
find that 'grandfather' rights may be granted only to the
extent that a showing is made as to the performance of
regulated transportation requires the reading into the law
of language which, in fact, is not there."
This statement applies equally to the comparable
Cf.
statutory provisions relating to contract carriers
C. F. Harms Co., Contract CarrierApplication,250 I. C. C.
685; 260 I. C. C. 171. Section 309 (f) does not in terms
require that such a carrier, to be entitled to "grandfather"
rights, must have been engaged in the transportation of
commodities which are nonexempt. It may be conceded
that such a limitation properly may be implied from the
requirement of substantial parity between operations on
the critical date and those for which a permit is sought, as
to other forms of transportation than the furnishing of
vessels as defined in § 302 (e). Cf. Alton R. Co. v. United
States, 315 U. S. 15, 22; Noble v. United States, 319 U. S.
88, 92. But it does not follow that the same limitation
applies to "the furnishing for compensation (under a
charter, lease, or other agreement) of a vessel" under
the transportation performed. It may well be that the carrier holds
itself out to, and actually does, transport all traffic offered to it from

and to all points covered by its application but that the great bulk of
such transportation is exempt from regulation. It seems clear that
if we shut our eyes to all of applicant's transportation except that
which is subject to regulation, we get an incomplete and distorted
picture of the nature and extent of its operations. To place limitations
upon 'grandfather' rights predicated upon that view would be unjust
and unreasonable, and is not contemplated by the law." 250 I. C. C.

429, 434.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

that section. It defines the act of furnishing, to shippers
other than regulated carriers, as "engaging in transportation" within the meaning of "contract carrier by water"
as that term is used in the section. If the purpose was to
treat this form of water operation identically with others
covered by the general definition, the purpose and utility
of the special provision concerning furnishing become
obscure if the provision does not in fact become wholly
ineffective.
The chartering or leasing of vessels and equipment is
not so obviously similiar to or identical with actively
"engaging in transportation" that, without specific provision for coverage, it necessarily would be included
within that of the more general definitions and provisions.
Quite different modes of operation, physically and in
business management, as well as responsibilities, conceivably if not also generally, give the activity materially
different characteristics from the carrying of goods in the
more conventional sense. Congress obviously sought to
bring these operations within the regulatory scheme by
the special provisions.
In doing so we do not think it had in mind the purpose
to draw a sharp line between furnishers of vessels carrying only exempt commodities and those carrying nonexempt ones. That is true, notwithstanding the fact that
one engaging in chartering affecting only the former is
no more required to secure a permit than one engaging
in other forms of transporting exempt commodities.
The legislative history shows that the original counterpart of the "furnishing" provision of § 302 (e) extended
to the furnishing of a vessel "to another person" rather
than "to a person other than a carrier subject to this Act"
as it now stands. This met with vigorous opposition, on
the ground that an owner supplying equipment to another
carrier would become subject to the Act, thus possibly
imposing upon him responsibility for the charges of the

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

195

Opinion of the Court.

lessee, or other person performing the operation, for performing it and for those operations, over which of course
the owner would not have control. It was feared this
might destroy a large amount of chartering activity, including both intercoastal and inland waterway business,
conducted then with a high degree of flexibility. Cf. 84
Cong. Rec. 9709; id., 9979. Emphasis was placed in the
discussion upon the freedom of railroads, acting under
Part I, and of motor carriers, under Part II, to lease surplus
equipment without becoming responsible as regulated
carriers for its use; and upon the common practice of
barge lines and other water carriers to lease equipment
freely and for long or short periods of time on open
markets. Ibid.
To meet the objections an amendment was offered in
the House to make the original proposal read: ". . . a
person which . . . furnishes a vessel . . . shall itself not

be considered to be engaged ... ." 84 Cong. Rec. 9979.
Had this finally been adopted, chartering would have been
wholly exempt. The final form of the bill struck out the
word "not" and substituted the present provision. The
Conference Report states, in addition to the purpose to
limit application to cases where the vessel is furnished
to a person other than a regulated carrier, the intention
to clarify the language "to make sure that the person
furnishing the vessel will not, simply by reason of furnishing the vessel, become a contract carrier subject to part
III of the act as to that part of its business not related to
the furnishing and use of the vessel."10 (Emphasis
added.)
This seems obviously to contemplate that chartering,
or the defined furnishing of equipment, is to be regarded
and treated as in a separate category from other forms of
engaging in regulated activity.; and that the one furnish10 H.

R. No. 2016, 76th Cong., 3d Ses., 77.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
. Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

ing the vessel by that act would become a "contract carrier subject to part III" as to that part of the business,
unless the vessel were furnished to another carrier. This
conclusion is further supported by the fact that § 302 (e)
in terms takes account of the character of the property to
be so transported in the language "to be used by the person
to whom such vessel is furnished in the transportation
of its own property."
This limitation takes no account of the distinction
between exempt and nonexempt commodities. Had
Congress intended that line to be drawn rigidly to require
showing of chartering for carriage of nonexempt goods, in
order to establish grandfather rights, that purpose, we
think, would have been clearly expressed. Its concern
in this provision was not with that line. The obvious
purpose was to secure full regulation of the traffic, by
application of the Act's provisions to the lessee, if he
should be a regulated carrier, thus exempting the lessor
in that situation; otherwise to the lessor.
In providing for the alternative incidence of coverage,
Congress recognized that, in chartering, the character of
the commodity, as being exempt or not exempt, was more
the concern of the "lessee" than of the lessor or charterer.
The latter's concern was with the furnishing of the vessel
as such and with whether the "lessee" was a regulated
carrier. To regard the Act as imposing the further limitation that the lessor also must have regard to the character of the cargo would cast that activity, intended to
be kept flexible, as the legislative history shows, into a
more rigid regulatory mold than other forms of transportation covered either by Part III or by Parts I and II.
Accordingly we think the Commission erred in concluding that appellant was not engaged in chartering operations subject to Part III on the critical date, for failure to
show "the nature of the services rendered, the commodities
carried in, or the points served with such vessels." This

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.

197

Opinion of the Court.

179

conclusion, moreover, seems to be in accord with its own
decision in the Harms case and in harmony with the principles followed in the Moran Towing case and that of
Russell Bros."

The Commission urges however that we are not concerned simply with inconsistencies in its decisions, since
evidence varies with cases and to its informed judgment is
confided the primary duty to make appropriate applications of the Act. We respect that judgment and that obligation. But the matter now involved goes beyond mere
apparent inconsistency in the statute's application. Seemingly there has been a basic difference of opinion within the
Commission itself concerning the necessity for proof showing the character of the commodity, as exempt or nonexempt, to establish grandfather rights to chartering
operations and also as to the character of the proof required. This appears from the fact that two of the three
Commissioners who participated in the decision by Division IV in this ease dissented from the full Commission's
decision in the Harms case and one of them in the Moran
case.
With full respect for the dissenting judgment, we think
the view eventually reached by the majority in those decisions accords with the statutory purpose and provision. 2
The dissenting Commissioners emphasize the requirement
11

See, however, W-764, Upper Mississippi Towing Corp., Common
CarrierApplication, 260 I. C.C.292.
It is suggested, by the protesting intervenors, that appellant has
failed to exhaust its administrative remedy by neglecting to apply a
second time for reconsideration by the Commission after the final
Harms decision, cf. note 8, although it was rendered after the complaint was filed in this case. The suggestion, if followed generally,
conceivably could result in keeping applicants running back and forth
between court and commission, if not interminably, then to an extent
certainly not contemplated by the exhaustion doctrine. Appellant
fulfilled the requirements of that doctrine by its application for reconsideration made to the entire Commission and its denial of the petition.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

of § 309 (g). that a permit shall specify the business of the
contract carrier and the scope thereof; and regard this as
qualifying the "furnishing" provision of § 302 (e) so as to
require substantially the same specific showing as to character of the commodities and territorial scope of operations
in chartering as has been deemed required for other forms
of transportation. Without this, they say, the substantial
parity between future operations and prior bona fide operations contemplated by the grandfather provisions cannot
be maintained.
The policy of maintaining that parity by adequate
standards of proof is sound, although "the Act is remedial
and to be construed liberally." McDonald v. Thompson,
305 U. S. 263, 266; Crescent Express Lines v. United
States, 320 U. S. 401, 409. The policy, however, may be
defeated by too strict an application in particular cases,
more especially it would seem in relation to water carriers
whose operations, in contract carriage at any rate, are
more generally irregular and spasmodic than in the case
of other carriers. The Court has said, even in relation
to the latter: "The Commission may not atomize his
prior service, product by product, so as to restrict the
scope of his operations, where there is substantial evidence in addition to his holding out that he was in 'bona
fide operation' as a 'common carrier' of a large group of
commodities or of a whole class or classes of property.
There might be substantial evidence of such an undertaking though the evidence as to any one article was not
substantial." United States v. Carolina Carriers Corp.,
315 U. S. 475, 483, 484.
This language has particularly appropriate application
to the proof made in this case, at any rate in relation to
the chartering operations, in so far as proof may be required for compliance with the requirements of § 309 (g).
Beyond this, it bears also upon the extent to which those
requirements are to be taken as qualifying § 302 (e). To

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.
179

199

Opinion of the Court.

consider them as doing so in a manner to require the
chartering carrier to prove specific instances of nonexempt
commodity carriage would molecularize, if not atomize,
the chartering business and threaten, if not accomplish,
the destruction anticipated in the congressional debates.
That result, or one tending strongly toward it, as would
such a construction, hardly can be taken to be consistent
with the declared national transportation policy "to provide for fair and impartial regulation of all modes of
transportation subject to the provisions of this Act, so
administered as to recognize and preserve the inherent
advantages of each" or the further declaration that this
policy is to be applied in enforcing all of the Act's provisions.u Spasmodic operation hardly would be regarded
as an inherent advantage of rail or perhaps of motor service in general. It is or may be, the most valuable inherent
advantage of a contract water carrier.
It follows that the judgment must be reversed as to the
chartering phase of appellant's operations.
In view of what has been said, particularly with reference to the varied and spasmodic character of appellant's
operations, and the policy of maintaining these as an inherent advantage of water transportation, our judgment
might differ from the Commission's as to the sufficiency of
the showing made as it related to other operations than
chartering and, in view of that showing, as to the necessity
or propriety of limiting the period of operations considered, in relation to the claim of grandfather rights, to that
following January 1, 1938.
Nevertheless, our views in these respects are not to be
substituted for the Commission's which is not only specially informed but broadly discretionary and controlling
except in case of clear departure from statutory requirements. Apart from the chartering, we are unable to say
23 Cf. Oppenheim, The National Transportation Policy and InterCarrier Competitive Rates (1945) 27 ff.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

there was such a departure in this case. The policy of
the Commission has recognized that a somewhat more
liberal attitude is required in the case of water carriers
than with respect to others in the length of the period to
be considered as establishing the claim of bona fide operation." Moreover, as has been stated, the evidence relating
to the latter part of the period prior to 1936 was rather
more vague than that affecting both earlier and later
periods. In view of these facts we cannot say that the
Commission erred in its findings or conclusion that appellant was not entitled, on the showing made, to a permit
for grandfather operations other than those involving
chartering.
In this phase of the case it is necessary only to add that,
in view of the specific statement contained in the Conference Report quoted above,"5 appellant is not entitled
to found grandfather rights to transportation other than
chartering upon a showing only of chartering operations.
We think too that it would be an invasion of the province of the Commission for us to interfere with its action
in finding that appellant upon the showing it made was
not, at the time of the application, entitled to a permit for
a new operation. It is true that its confinement, since
about 1940, to operations substantially, if not exclusively,
in transportation of petroleum products has been induced,
according to the proof, by the war emergency, and that
this business in all probability will terminate with the
emergency's end. It is likewise true that appellant's
equipment can be converted readily for other uses when
14 Compare Moran Towing & Transp. Co., Applications,260 I. C. C.
269, 273; Thames River Line, Common Carrier Application, 250

I. C. C. 245; and other cases in the latter volume at pp. 106, 117,
179, 353, 370 and 599, with, e. g., Jack Cole Co. v. United States,
41 M. C. C. 657, 59 F. Supp. 10, affirmed per curiam, 324 U. S. 822;
Gregg
Cartage Co. v. United States, 316 U. S. 74.
1

6Cf. text at note 10.

BARRETT LINE v. UNITED STATES.

201

Dissent.

179

that occurs and, unless authority is obtained to conduct
operations upon a scale sufficient to enable appellant to
employ it profitably, the business may be forced to close or
required to operate uneconomically. Nevertheless, in view
of the failure to make specific showing of some immediate
prospect of entering upon new and nonexempt operations,
and of the range and weight of the Commission's discretion
in relation to such applications, we are not at liberty to
interfere with its action.
The Commission has suggested, in the brief, that upon
another application, accompanied by a sufficient showing
of intended "new operations," the desired permit may be
granted. No doubt, in such an event, the application will
be considered in the light of the Act's injunction of "fair
and impartial regulation . . . so administered as to recognize and preserve the inherent advantages" of the type
of transportation in which the Barrett Line has been engaged through four generations of river life.
The judgment is affirmed as to operations other than
chartering; as to them, it is reversed, and the cause is
remanded for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.
The

CHIEF

JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE

ROBERTS, MR. JUSTICE

FaANxuRuER, and MR. JUSTICE JAcKsoN, dissenting.
The Court, in rejecting the refusal of the Interstate
Commerce Commission to grant a permit as a contract
carrier by water for charter purposes, is greatly influenced
by an alleged conflict in the Commission's determinations.
Compare C. F. Harms Co., Contract CarrierApplication,
260 I. C. C. 171; Russell Bros. Towing Co., Common Carrier Application, 250 I. C. C. 429; Moran Towing &
TransportationCo., Applications, 260 I. C. C. 269, with
Upper Mississippi Towing Corp., Common CarrierApplications, 260 I. C. C. 292. Assuming such a conflict,
it is our business to deal with the case now here and not

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Dissent.

326 U. S.

to be concerned with apparent inconsistencies in administrative determinations. If the Commission has kept
within the bounds of the statute in this case, its order
should be sustained. We think that the interpretation
of § 302 (e) made by the Commission was proper. Certainly, the construction of this provision involves considerations so bound up with the technical subject matter
that, even though the neutral language of the statute permits, as a matter of English, the construction which the
Court now makes, the experience of the Commission
should prevail. Compare Gray v. Powell, 314 U. S. 402.

