MARSH v. ALABAMA.
496

Syllabus.

• . . as shall be necessary to preserve . . .peace and

friendship unbroken." This procedure was to be followed
until Congress made "other equitable provision for the
purpose." This latter language, upon which the petitioner
most strongly relies as imposing a duty upon the United
States to exercise jurisdiction over the whole Reservation
to the exclusion of the State, even as to offenses committed
by whites against whites, cannot properly be interpreted
as the petitioner asks. The entire emphasis in treaties and
Congressional enactments dealing with Indian affairs has
always been focused upon the treatment of the Indians
themselves and their property. Generally no emphasis has
been placed on whether state or United States courts
should try white offenders for conduct which happened to
take place upon an Indian reservation, but which did not
directly affect the Indians. Neither the 1794 Treaty nor
any other requires a holding that offenses by non-Indians
against non-Indians disturbing the peace and order of
Salamanca are beyond New York's power to punish.
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.
MARSH v. ALABAMA.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF ALABAMA.

No. 114. Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A state can not, consistently with the freedom of religion and the
press guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments, impose
criminal punishment on a person for distributing religious literature
on the sidewalk of a company-owned town contrary to regulations
of the town's management, where the town and its shopping district
are freely accessible to and freely used by the public in general,
even though the punishment is attempted under a state statute
making it a crime for anyone to enter or remain on the premises
of another after having been warned not to do so. Pp. 502, 505.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

2. Whether a corporation or a municipality owns or possesses a town,
the public in either case has an identical interest in the functioning
of the community in such manner that the channels of communication remain free. P. 507.
3. People living in company-owned towns are free citizens of their
State and country, just as residents of municipalities; and there
is no more reason for depriving them of the liberties guaranteed
by the First and Fourteenth Amendments than there is for curtailing these freedoms with respect to any other citizen. P. 508.
21 So. 2d 558, reversed.

from the affirmance of a conviction for violation
of a state statute challenged as invalid under the Federal
Constitution. The State Supreme Court denied certiorari,
246 Ala. 539, 21 So. 2d 564.
APPEAL

Mr. Hayden C. Covington, with whom Mr. Grover C.
Powell was on the brief, for appellant.
William M. McQueen, Attorney General of Alabama,
and John 0. Harris,Assistant Attorney General, submitted
for appellee.
MR.

JUsTIcE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.

In this case we are asked to decide whether a State, consistently with the First and Fourteenth Amendments, can
impose criminal punishment on a person who undertakes
to distribute religious literature on the premises of a company-owned town contrary to the wishes of the town's
management. The town, a suburb of Mobile, Alabama,
known as Chickasaw, is owned by the Gulf Shipbuilding
Corporation. Except for that it has all the characteristics
of any other American town. The property consists of
residential buildings, streets, a system of sewers, a sewage
disposal plant and a "business block" on which business
places are situated. A deputy of the Mobile County
Sheriff, paid by the company, serves as the town's policeman. Merchants and service establishments have rented
the stores and business places on the business block and

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

Opinion of the Court.

the United States uses one of the places as a post office
from which six carriers deliver mail to the people of Chickasaw and the adjacent area. The town and the surrounding neighborhood, which can not be distinguished from
the Gulf property by anyone not familiar with the property lines, are thickly settled, and according to all indications the residents use the business block as their regular
shopping center. To do so, they now, as they have for
many years, make use of a company-owned paved street
and sidewalk located alongside the store fronts in order to
enter and leave the stores and the post office. Intersecting
company-owned roads at each end of the business block
lead into a four-lane public highway which runs parallel
to the business block at a distance of thirty feet. There
is nothing to stop highway traffic from coming onto the
business block and upon arrival a traveler may make free
use of the facilities available there. In short the town and
its shopping district are accessible to and freely used by
the public in general and there is nothing to distinguish
them from any other town and shopping center except the
fact that the title to the property belongs to a private
corporation.
Appellant, a Jehovah's Witness, came onto the sidewalk
we have just described, stood near the post office and undertook to distribute religious literature. In the stores the
corporation had posted a notice which read as follows:
"This Is Private Property, and Without Written Permission, No Street, or House Vendor, Agent or Soliditation of
Any Kind Will Be Permitted." Appellant was warned
that she could not distribute the literature without a permit
and told that no permit would be issued to her. She protested that the company rule could not be constitutionally
applied so as to prohibit her from distributing religious
writings. When she was asked to leave the sidewalk and
Chickasaw she declined. The deputy sheriff arrested her
and she was charged in the state court with violating Title

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

14, § 426 of the 1940 Alabama Code which makes it a crime
to enter or remain on the premises of another after having
been warned not to do so. Appellant contended that to
construe the state statute as applicable to her activities
would abridge her right to freedom of press and religion
contrary to the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the
Constitution. This contention was rejected and she was
convicted. The Alabama Court of Appeals affirmed the
conviction, holding that the statute as applied was constitutional because the title to the sidewalk was in the corporation and because the public use of the sidewalk had not
been such as to give rise to a presumption under Alabama
law of its irrevocable dedication to the public. 21 So. 2d
558. The State Supreme Court denied certiorari, 246 Ala.
539, 21 So. 2d 564, and the case is here on appeal under
§ 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 344 (a).
Had the title to Chickasaw belonged not to a private
but to a municipal corporation and had appellant been
arrested for violating a municipal ordinance rather than
a ruling by those appointed by the corporation to manage
a company town it would have been clear that appellant's
conviction must be reversed. Under our decision in Lovell
v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444 and others which have followed
that case,' neither a State nor a municipality can completely bar the distribution of literature containing religious or political ideas on its streets, sidewalks and public
places or make the right to distribute dependent on a
flat license tax or permit to be issued by an official who
could deny it at will. We have also held that an ordinance
completely prohibiting the dissemination of ideas on the
city streets cannot be justified on the ground that the
I Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Schneider v. State, 308 U. S.
147; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88; Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296; dissent of Chief Justice Stone in Jones v. Opelika, 316

U. S. 584, 600, adopted as the opinion of the Court, 319 U. S. 103;
Largent v. Texas, 318 U. S. 418; Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S.
105; Follett v. McCormick, 321 U. S. 573.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

Opinion of the Court.

municipality holds legal title to them. Jamison v. Texas,
318 U. S. 413. And we have recognized that the preservation of a free society is so far dependent upon the right
of each individual citizen to receive such literature as he
himself might desire that a municipality could not, without jeopardizing that vital individual freedom, prohibit
door to door distribution of literature. Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, 146, 147. From these decisions it is
clear that had the people of Chickasaw owned all the
homes, and all the stores, and all the streets, and all the
sidewalks, all those owners together could not have set
up a municipal government with sufficient power to pass
an ordinance completely barring the distribution of religious literature. Our question then narrows down to
this: Can those people who live in or come to Chickasaw
be denied freedom of press and religion simply because a
single company has legal title to all the town? For it is
the State's contention that the mere fact that all the
property interests in the town are held by a single company is enough to give that company power, enforceable
by a state statute, to abridge these freedoms.
We do not agree that the corporation's property interests settle the question.2 The State urges in effect that
2

We do not question the state court's determination of the issue of

"dedication." That determination means that the corporation could,
if it so desired, entirely close the sidewalk and the town to the public
and is decisive of all questions of state law which depend on the owner's
being estopped to reclaim possession of, and the public's holding the
title to, or having received an irrevocable easement in, the premises.
Demopolis v. Webb, 87 Ala. 659, 6 So. 408; Hamilton v. Town of
Warrior, 215 Ala. 670, 112 So. 136; Town of Leeds v. Sharp, 218 Ala.
403, 405, 118 So. 572; Forney v. Calhoun County, 84 Ala. 215, 4
So. 153; Cloverdale Homes v. Cloverdale, 182 Ala. 419, 62 So. 712.
The "dedication" of a road to the public may also be decisive of
whether, under Alabama law, obstructing the road constitutes a
crime, Beverly v. State, 28 Ala. App. 451, 185 So. 768, and whether
certain action on or near the road amounts to a tort. Thrasher v.
Burr, 202 Ala. 307, 80 So. 372. But determination of the issue of
"dedication" does not decide the question under the Federal Constitution here involved.

506

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the corporation's right to control the inhabitants of Chickasaw is coextensive with the right of a homeowner to regulate the conduct of his guests. We cannot accept that
contention. Ownership does not always mean absolute
dominion. The more an owner, for his advantage, opens
up his property for use by the public in general, the more
do his rights become circumscribed by the statutory and
constitutional rights of those who use it. Cf. Republic
Aviation Corp. v. Labor Board, 324 U. S. 793, 798, 802, n. 8.
Thus, the owners of privately held bridges, ferries, turnpikes and railroads may not operate them as freely as a
farmer does his farm. Since these facilities are built and
operated primarily to benefit the public and since their
operation is essentially a public function, it is subject to
state regulation.$ And, though the issue is not directly
analogous to the one before us, we do want to point out
by way of illustration that such regulation may not result
in an operation of these facilities, even by privately owned
companies, which unconstitutionally interferes with and
discriminates against interstate commerce. Port Richmond Ferry v. Hudson County, supra,234 U. S. at 326 and
cases cited, pp. 328-329; cf. South CarolinaHighwayDept.
v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177. Had the corporation here
owned the segment of the four-lane highway which runs
parallel to the "business block" and operated the same
under a state franchise, doubtless no one would have
seriously contended that the corporation's property interest in the highway gave it power to obstruct through traffic or to discriminate against interstate commerce. See
8 Clark's Ferry Bridge Co. v. Public Service Commission, 291 U. S.
227; American Toll Bridge Co. v. Railroad Commission, 307 U. S.
486; Mills v. St. Clair County, 8 How. 569, 581; Port Richmond
Ferry v. Hudson County, 234 U. S. 317, 327, 331-332; Covington &
L. Turnpike Road Co. v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578; Norfolk & S. Turnpike Co. v. Virginia, 225 U. S. 264; Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co.,
199 U. S. 279, and cases cited on pp. 293-295.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

Opinion of the Court.

County Commissioners v. Chandler, 96 U. S. 205, 208;
Donovan v. Pennsylvania Co., supra, 199 U. S. at 294;
Covington DrawbridgeCo. v. Shepherd, 21 How. 112, 125.
And even had there been no express franchise but mere
acquiescence by the State in the corporation's use of its
property as a segment of the four-lane highway, operation
of all the highway, including the segment owned by the
corporation, would still have been performance of a public
function and discrimination would certainly have been
illegal."
We do not think it makes any significant constitutional
difference as to the relationship between the rights of the
owner and those of the public that here the State, instead
of permitting the corporation to operate a highway, permitted it to use its property as a town, operate a "business
block" in the town and a street and sidewalk on that business block. Cf. Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324, 340.
Whether a corporation or a municipality owns or possesses
the town the public in either case has an identical interest in the functioning of the community in such manner
that the channels of communication remain free. As we
'And certainly the corporation can no more deprive people of
freedom of press and religion than it can discriminate against commerce. In his dissenting opinion in Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584,
600, which later was adopted as the opinion of the Court, 319 U. S.
103, 104, Mr. Chief Justice Stone made the following pertinent statement: "Freedom of press and religion, explicitly guaranteed by the
Constitution, must at least be entitled to the same freedom from
burdensome taxation which it has been thought that the more general phraseology of the commerce clause has extended to interstate
commerce. Whatever doubts may be entertained as to this Court's
function to relieve, unaided by Congressional legislation, from burdensome taxation under the commerce clause, see Gwin, White &
Prince v. Henneford, 305 U. S. 434, 441, 446-55; McCarroll v. Dixie
Lines, 309 U. S. 176, 184-85, it cannot be thought that that function is
wanting under the explicit guaranties of freedom of speech, press and
religion." 316 U. S. at 610-11.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

have heretofore stated, the town of Chickasaw does not
function differently from any other town. The "business
block" serves as the community shopping center and is
freely accessible and open to the people in the area and
those passing through. The managers appointed by the
corporation cannot curtail the liberty of press and religion
of these people consistently with the purposes of the
Constitutional guarantees, and a state statute, as the one
here involved, which enforces such action by criminally
punishing those who attempt to distribute religious literature clearly violates the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution.
Many people in the United States live in companyowned towns. These people, just as residents of municipalities, are free citizens of their State and country. Just
as all other citizens they must make decisions which affect the welfare of community and nation. To act as
good citizens they must be informed. In order to enable
them to be properly informed their information must be
uncensored. There is no more reason for depriving these
people of the liberties guaranteed by the First and FourIn the bituminous coal industry alone, approximately one-half of
the miners in the United States lived in company-owned houses in
the period from 1922-23. The percentage varied from 9 per cent in
Illinois and Indiana and 64 per cent in Kentucky, to almost 80 per
cent in West Virginia. U. S. Coal Commission, Report, 1925, Part
III, pp. 1467, 1469 summarized in Morris, The Plight of the Coal
Miner, Philadelphia 1934, Ch. VI, p. 86. The most recent statistics
we found available are in Magnusson, Housing by Employers in the
United States, Bureau of Labor Statistics Bulletin No. 263 (Misc.
Ser.) p. 11. See also United States Department of Labor, Wage and
Hour Division, Data on Pay Roll Deductions, Union Manufacturing
Company, Union Point, Georgia, June 1941; Rhyne, Some Southern
Cotton Mill Workers and Their Villages, Chapel Hill, 1930 (Study
completed under the direction of the Institute for Research in Social
Science at the University of North Carolina); Comment, Urban
Redevelopment, 54 Yale L. J. 116.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

Opinion of the Court.

teenth Amendments than there is for curtailing these
freedoms with respect to any other citizen.6
When we balance the Constitutional rights of owners
of property against those of the people to enjoy freedom
of press and religion, as we must here, we remain mindful
of the fact that the latter occupy a preferred position.'
As we have stated before, the right to exercise the liberties
safeguarded by the First Amendment "lies at the foundation of free government by free men" and we must in all
cases "weigh the circumstances and . . . appraise the
• .. reasons . . . in support of the regulation . . . of

the rights." Schneiderv. State, 308 U. S. 147,161. In our
view the circumstance that the property rights to the
premises where the deprivation of liberty, here involved,
took place, were held by others than the public, is not sufficient to justify the State's permitting a corporation to
govern a community of citizens so as to restrict their fundamental liberties and the enforcement of such restraint
by the application of a state statute. Insofar as the State
has attempted to impose criminal punishment on appellant for undertaking to distribute religious literature in a
company town, its action cannot stand. The case is re6As to the suppression of civil liberties in company towns and the
need of those who live there for Constitutional protection, see the
summary of facts aired before the Senate Committee on Education
and Labor, Violations of Free Speech and Rights of Labor, Hearings
pursuant to S. Res. 266, 74th Cong., 2d Sess., 1937, summarized in
Bowden, Freedom for Wage Earners,Annals of The American Academy of Political and Social Science, Nov. 1938, p. 185; Z. Chafee, The
Inquiring Mind (New York, 1928), pp. 173-74; Pamphlet published
in 1923 by the Bituminous Operators' Special Committee under the
title The Company Town; U. S. Coal Commission, Report, supra, Part
III, p. 1331.
'Jones v. Opelika, supra, 316 U. S. at 608; Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra, 319 U. S. at 115; Follett v. McCormick, supra,321 U. S.
at 577.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRANKFumRTE, J., concurring.

326 U. S.

versed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed and remanded.
MR.JUSTICE

JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

So long as the views which prevailed in Jones v. Opelika,
319 U. S. 103, in connection with 316 U. S. 584, 600;
Murdock v. Pennsylvania, 319 U. S. 105; Martin v.
Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, express the law of the Constitution, I am unable to find legal significance in the fact that
a town in which the Constitutional freedoms of religion
and speech are invoked happens to be company-owned.
These decisions accorded the purveyors of ideas, religious
or otherwise, "a preferred position," Murdock v. Pennsylvania, supra at 115, even to the extent of relieving them
from an unhampering and non-discriminatory duty of
bearing their share of the cost of maintaining the peace
and the other amenities of a civilized society. Constitutional privileges having such a reach ought not to depend
upon a State court's notion of the extent of "dedication"
of private property to public purposes. Local determinations of such technical matters govern controversies affecting property. But when decisions by State courts involving local matters are so interwoven with the decision
of the question of Constitutional rights that one necessarily
involves the other, State determination of local questions
cannot control the Federal Constitutional right.
A company-owned town gives rise to a net-work of
property relations. As to these, the judicial organ of a
State has the final say. But a company-owned town is a
town. In its community aspects it does not differ from
other towns. These community aspects are decisive in

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

REED,

J., dissenting.

adjusting the relations now before us, and more particularly in adjudicating the clash of freedoms which the Bill
of Rights was designed to resolve-the freedom of the
community to regulate its life and the freedom of the
individual to exercise his religion and to disseminate his
ideas. Title to property as defined by State law controls
property relations; it cannot control issues of civil liberties
which arise precisely because a company town is a town
as well as a congeries of property relations. And similarly
the technical distinctions on which a finding of "trespass"
so often depends are too tenuous to control decision regarding the scope of the vital liberties guaranteed by the
Constitution.
Accordingly, as I have already indicated, so long as the
scope of the guarantees of the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment by absorption of the First remains that which the Court gave to it in the series of
cases in the October Term, 1942, the circumstances of the
present case seem to me clearly to fall within it. And so
I agree with the opinion of the Court, except that portion
of it which relies on arguments drawn from the restrictions which the Commerce Clause imposes on State regulation of commerce. It does not seem to me to further
Constitutional analysis to seek help for the solution of
the delicate problems arising under the First Amendment
from the very different order of problems which the Commerce Clause presents. The latter involves an accommodation between National and State powers operating
in the same field. Where the First Amendment applies,
it is a denial of all governmental power in our Federal
system.
MR. JUSTICE REED,

dissenting.

Former decisions of this Court have interpreted generously the Constitutional rights of people in this Land to

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
REED,

J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

exercise freedom of religion, of speech and of the press.1
It has never been held and is not now by this opinion of
the Court that these rights are absolute and unlimited
either in respect to the manner or the place of their exercise.2 What the present decision establishes as a principle is that one may remain on private property against
the will of the owner and contrary to the law of the state
so long as the only objection to his presence is that he is
exercising an asserted right to spread there his religious
views. See Marrone v. Washington Jockey Club, 227
U. S. 633. This is the first case to extend by law the privilege of religious exercises beyond public places or to private places without the assent of the owner. Compare
Martin v. Struthers,319 U. S. 141.
As the rule now announced permits this intrusion, without possibility of protection of the property by law, and
apparently is equally applicable to the freedom of speech
and the press, it seems appropriate to express a dissent to
this, to us, novel Constitutional doctrine. Of course, such
principle may subsequently be restricted by this Court to
the precise facts of this case-that is to private property
in a company town where the owner for his own advantage
has permitted a restricted public use by his licensees and
invitees. Such distinctions are of degree and require new
arbitrary lines, judicially drawn, instead of those hitherto
established by legislation and precedent. While the power
1

Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444; Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496;
Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147; Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88;
Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296; dissent of Chief Justice Stone
in Jones v. Opelika, 316 U. S. 584, 600, adopted as the opinion of the
Court, 319 U. S. 103; Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413; Largent v.
Texas, 318 U. S. 418; Murdock v. Pennsylvania,319 U. S. 105; Martin
v. Struthers,319 U. S. 141; Follett v. McCormick, 321 U. S. 573.
2 Schenk v. United States, 249 U. S. 47; Gitlow v. New York, 268
U. S. 652; Near v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697; Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296; Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire, 315 U. S. 568; Prince
v. Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

REED,

J., dissenting.

of this Court, as the interpreter of the Constitution to determine what use of real property by the owner makes
that property subject, at will, to the reasonable practice
of religious exercises by strangers, cannot be doubted, we
find nothing in the principles of the First Amendment,
adopted now into the Fourteenth, which justifies their
application to the facts of this case.8
Both Federal and Alabama law permit, so far as we are
aware, company towns. By that we mean an area occupied by numerous houses, connected by passways, fenced
or not, as the owners may choose. These communities
may be essential to furnish proper and convenient living
conditions for employees on isolated operations in lumbering, mining, production of high explosives and large-scale
farming. The restrictions imposed by the owners upon
the occupants are sometimes galling to the employees and
may appear unreasonable to outsiders. Unless they fall
under the prohibition of some legal rule, however, they
are a matter for adjustment between owner and licensee,
or by appropriate legislation. Compare Western Turf
Assn. v. Greenberg,204 U. S. 359.
Alabama has a statute generally applicable to all privately owned premises. It is Title 14, § 426, Alabama
Code 1940 which so far as pertinent reads as follows:
"Trespass after warning.-Any person who, without
legal cause or good excuse, enters into the dwelling house
or on the premises of another, after having been warned,
within six months preceding, not to do so; or any person,
who, having entered into the dwelling house or on the
premises of another without having been warned within
six months not to do so, and fails or refuses, without legal
8"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
First Amendment to the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
RzED,

J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

cause or good excuse, to leave immediately on being
ordered or requested to do so by the person in possession,
his agent or representative, shall, on conviction, be fined
not more than one hundred dollars, and may also be imprisoned in the county jail, or sentenced to hard labor for
the county, for not more than three months."
Appellant was distributing religious pamphlets on a privately owned passway or sidewalk thirty feet removed
from a public highway of the State of Alabama and remained on these private premises after an authorized
order to get off. We do not understand from the record
that there was objection to appellant's use of the nearby
public highway and under our decisions she could rightfully have continued her activities a few feet from the
spot she insisted upon using. An owner of property may
very well have been willing for the public to use the private
passway for business purposes and yet have been unwilling
to furnish space for street trades or a location for the
practice of religious exhortations by itinerants. The passway here in question was not put to any different use
than other private passways that lead to privately owned
areas, amusement places, resort hotels or other businesses.
There had been no dedication of the sidewalk to the public use, express or implied. Alabama so decided and we
understand that this Court accepts that conclusion. Alabama, also, decided that appellant violated by her activities the above-quoted state statute.
The Court calls attention to the fact that the owners of
public utilities, bridges, ferries, turnpikes and railroads
are subject to state regulation of rates and are forbidden
to discriminate against interstate commerce. This is quite
true but we doubt if the Court means to imply that the
property of these utilities may be utilized, against the
companies' wishes, for religious exercises of the kind in
question.

MARSH v. ALABAMA.
501

RzED, J., dissenting.

A state does have the moral duty of furnishing the
opportunity for information, education and religious enlightenment to its inhabitants, including those who live
in company towns, but it has not heretofore been adjudged
that it must commandeer, without compensation, the
private property of other citizens to carry out that obligation. Heretofore this Court has sustained the right of
employees, under an appropriate statute, protecting full
freedom of employee organization, to solicit union membership in nonworking time on the property of an employer and against his express prohibition. This is because
the prohibition is an impediment to the right of organization which is protected by a statute which governs a relation between employers and employees if and when the
latter are admitted to the employers' premises as licensees.
It was recognized in the opinion that the freedom of
solicitation was the result of a regulatory statute and was
not a Constitutional right. Republic Aviation Corp. v.
Labor Board, 324 U. S. 793, 803. In the area which is
covered by the guarantees of the First Amendment, this
Court has been careful to point out that the owner of
property may protect himself against the intrusion of
strangers. Although in Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S.
141, an ordinance forbidding the summonsing of the occupants of a dwelling to receive handbills was held invalid
because in conflict with the freedom of speech and press,
this Court pointed out at page 147 that, after warning,
the property owner would be protected from annoyance.'
' "The dangers of distribution can so easily be controlled by traditional legal methods, leaving to each householder the full right to
decide whether he will receive strangers as visitors, that stringent
prohibition can serve no purpose but that forbidden by the Constitution, the naked restriction of the dissemination of ideas.
"Traditionally the American law punishes persons who enter onto
the property of another after having been warned by the owner to
keep off. General trespassafter warning statutes exist in at least

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Rm, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

The very Alabama statute which is now held powerless
to protect the property of the Gulf Shipbuilding Corporation, after notice, from this trespass was there cited, note
10, to show that it would protect the householder, after
notice. The right to communicate ideas was expressed
by us in Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413, 416, as follows:
"But one who is rightfully on a street which the state
has left open to the public carries with him there as elsewhere the Constitutional right to express his views in an
orderly fashion."
Our Constitution guarantees to every man the right to
express his views in an orderly fashion. An essential element of "orderly" is that the man shall also have a right
to use the place he chooses for his exposition. The rights
of the owner, which the Constitution protects as well as
the right of free speech, are not outweighed by the interests of the trespasser, even though he trespasses in behalf
of religion or free speech. We cannot say that Jehovah's
Witnesses can claim the privilege of a license, which has
never been granted, to hold their meetings in other private places, merely because the owner has admitted the
public to them for other limited purposes. Even though
we have reached the point where this Court is required
to force private owners to open their property for the
practice there of religious activities or propaganda distwenty states, while similar statutes of narrower scope are on the
books of at least twelve states more. We know of no state which,
as does the Struthers ordinance in effect, makes a person a criminal
trespasser if he enters the property of another for an innocent purpose without an explicit command from the owners to stay away.
The National Institute of Municipal Law Officers has proposed a
form of regulation to its member cities which would make it an offense
for any person to ring the bell of a householder who has appropriately
indicated that he is unwilling to be disturbed. This or any similar
regulation leaves the decision as to whether distributers of literature
may lawfully call at a home where it belongs--with the homeowner
himself." Martin v. Struthemr, 319 U. S. 141, 147-48.

TUCKER v. TEXAS.
501

Statement of the Case.

tasteful to the owner, because of the public interest in
freedom of speech and religion, there is no need for the
application of such a doctrine here. Appellant, as we have
said, was free to engage in such practices on the public
highways, without becoming a trespasser on the company's
property.
The CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE BURTON join in
this dissent.
TUCKER v. TEXAS.
APPEAL FROM THE COUNTY COURT OF MEDINA COUNTY,
TEXAS.

No. 87. Argued December 6, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A State can not, consistently with the freedom of religion and the
press guaranteed by the First and Fourteenth Amendments, impose
criminal punishment upon a person engaged in religious activities
and distributing religious literature in a village owned by the
United States under a Congressional program designed to provide
housing for workers engaged in national defense activities, where
the village is freely accessible and open to the public and has all
the characteristics of a typical American town, even though the
punishment is attempted under a state statute making it unlawful
for any "peddler or hawker of goods or merchandise" willfully to
refuse to leave the premises after having been notified to do so by
the owner or possessor thereof. P. 519.
2. Neither the Federal Housing Act nor the Housing Authority Regulations indicate a purpose to restrict freedom of religion and of the
press within villages such as the one here involved. P. 520.
3. A judgment of an intermediate state court sustaining a state statute challenged as repugnant to the Federal Constitution is reviewable here under § 237 (a) of the Judicial Code, where such intermediate court is the highest court of the State in which a decision
in the case could be had. P. 518.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a judgment sustaining a conviction for
violation of a state statute challenged as invalid under the
Federal Constitution.

