GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
Syllabus.

287

recognizable value into the suit from the stockholders'
viewpoint. Hence it was reasonable to conclude that all
value had departed from the stock prior to 1937 and that
there was nothing left except a claim for damages against
third parties for destruction of that value.
The taxpayer points to the consequences of error and
other difficulties confronting one who in good faith tries
to choose the proper year in which to claim a deduction.
But these difficulties are inherent under the statute as now
framed. Any desired remedy for such a situation, of
course, lies with Congress rather than with the courts. It
is beyond the judicial power to distort facts or to disregard
legislative intent in order to provide equitable relief in a
particular situation.

Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY AND DEPARTMENT OF LABOR & INDUSTRIES OF THE
STATE OF WASHINGTON.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 53. Argued October 16, 17, 1945.-Decided November 13, 1945.
Prior to the 1941 amendment of the Washington Industrial Insurance
Act, there was a 3-year limitation on the filing by a workman of a
claim for readjustment of compensation on account of aggravation

of injury. The 1941 amendment authorized the filing of such a
claim within five years from its effective date. There was no limitation, however, before or after the amendment, on the reopening of
a claim and the awarding of additional compensation by the Department on its own motion. A workman, against whom the 3-year
limitation of the preexisting law had run, filed pursuant to the 1941
amendment a claim for readjustment and was awarded additional
compensation.
Held that, upon the record in this case, the appellant employerhaving shown neither a probability that its future premium rate

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

would be increased by allowance of the additional award nor that
under the preexisting law the liability for an additional award had
been extinguished-failed to make a showing of such substantial
injury, actual or impending, to any legally protected interest as
would entitle it to question the validity of the statute under the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 297, 307.
22 Wash. 2d 250, 155 P. 2d 802, appeal dismissed.
APPEAL from a judgment which sustained the constitu-

tionality of a state statute as applied to the appellant.
Mr. T. J. Hanify, with whom Messrs. John Ambler and
L. B. Donley were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Harry Ellsworth Foster, with whom Smith Troy,
Attorney General of the State of Washington, was on the
brief, for the Department of Labor & Industries; and Mr.
CharlesR. Carey for Rowley, appellees.
MR. JusTimC RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This appeal is from a judgment of the Supreme Court
of Washington rendered after the case journeyed twice
through the state's appropriate administrative and judicial
tribunals. 21 Wash. 2d 420,22 Wash. 2d 250.' The judgment sustained an award made by the appellee, Department of Labor and Industries, in favor of Rowley, the
individual appellee. The award was for compensation on
account of the aggravation, by 1943, of injuries originally
1 The procedure for making claims before the Department of
Labor and Industries and for obtaining judicial review is sketched
below in note 10. On the first journey of the cause to the Supreme
Court, the Department and the Superior Court held that the claim
was out of time and that it should be dismissed. After reversal of
these rulings, the case was returned to the Department for the making
of an award, and its order accomplishing this was affirmed by the
Superior and Supreme Courts, as against appellant's constitutional
objections urged here and others.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

sustained by Rowley in 1937 in the course of his employment by appellant. A prior award for the original injury,
made in 1938, became "final" 2 without appeal and is only
indirectly in issue. Both awards were made pursuant to
the state's statutory provisions for industrial insurance
and were payable from a publicly administered fund maintained, as the statute required, by "premiums" or contributions of employers.' Appellant claims that .the statute has been applied, in respect to its liability for the
payment of premiums, in a manner to deprive it of property without due process of law, contrary to the prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The controversy results from a 1941 amendment of the
Washington Industrial Insurance Act,' by which the time
allowed for the beneficiary of an award to apply for additional compensation on account of aggravation of his
injury was extended from three to five years after the
establishment (or termination) of compensation or, by
virtue of a proviso, to five years from the amendment's
2The award became final, for purposes of review, in so far as the
amount of compensation allowable for the original injury as proved
in that proceeding was concerned. But it was at all times subject
to being reopened for the allowance of additional compensation on
account of aggravation of the original injury taking place after the
original award. See note 5; also notes 14, 15 and text.
a Washington's original Workmen's Compensation (or more properly Industrial Insurance) Act was adopted in 1911, Laws of Wash.,
1911, c.74 (Remington's Revised Statutes of Washington, §§ 7673
et seq.). For purposes material to the disposition of this cause, the
Act was amended in 1927, by placing a limit of three years from
specified dates upon the filing of claims by injured workmen for aggravation of injuries (Laws of Wash., 1927, c. 310, p. 844; Rem. Rev.
Stat. Wash., 1932, § 7679 (h), amending Laws of 1911, c. 74, § 5 (h))
and in 1941 (effective December 3, 1942) by extending the three-year
period to five years. Laws of Wash., 1941, c. 209, § 1; Rem. Rev.
Stat. Wash., 1941 Supp., § 7679, amending subsection (h) of the 1927
amendment.
' See note 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

effective date.' Since Rowley's application presently involved was made in time only by virtue of the proviso,6
appellant asserts that the amendment has been applied
retroactively to revive a claim barred by the preexisting
law, to its substantial detriment; and thereby, under this
Court's decision in Danzer & Co. v. Gulf & Ship Island
R. Co., 268 U. S. 633, the claimed unconstitutional consequences have been created.
5 The provision, as amended in 1941, was as follows: "If aggravation, diminution, or termination of disability takes place or be discovered after the rate of compensation shall have been established
or compensation terminated, in any case the director of labor and
industries, through and by means of the division of industrial insurance, may, upon the application of the beneficiary, made within five
years after the establishment or termination of such compensation,or
upon his own motion, readjust for further application the rate
of compensation in accordance with the rules in this section provided
for the same, or in a proper case terminate the payment: Provided,
Any such applicant whose compensation has heretofore been e8tablished or terminated shall have five years from the taking effect of
this act within which to apply for such readjustment." Laws of
Wash., 1941, c. 209, § 1; Rem. Rev. Stat. Wash., 1941 Supp., § 7679
(h). (Emphasis added.)
The 1927 amendment, see note 3, was identical except for use of
the word "three" where "five" is employed. The original provision,
in force from 1911 to 1927, was as follows: "If aggravation,diminution,
or termination of disability takes place or be discovered after the rate
of compensation shall have been established or compensation terminated in any case the department may, upon the application of the
beneficiary or upon its own motion, readjust for future application
the rate of compensation in accordance with the rules in this section
provided for the same, or in a proper case terminate the payments."
Laws of Wash., 1911, c. 74, § 5 (h). (Emphasis added.)
8 The original injury was incurred July 13, 1937. The original
award, of $307.50, for permanent partial disability of the right hand,
became "final," cf. note 2, March 9, 1938. The 1927 amendment, see
notes 3 and 5, was in force at that time and until December 3, 1942,
when the 1941 amendment became effective. Rowley's claim for
aggravation was not filed until March 19, 1943, more than five years
from the time the original award was "closed," but less than five years
from the date the 1941 amendment, with the proviso, became effective.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

Appellees have responded by relying upon Campbell v.
Holt, 115 U. S. 620, and Chase Securities Corp. v. Donaldson, 325 U. S. 304. They have urged that as applied the
statute has produced no unconstitutional injury or detriment to any substantive interest of appellant; and that
the only effect has been to modify its procedural rights, in
particular by supplying judicial review of awards for aggravation where previously only an administrative remedy
was available to the employee.' As all of these contentions are somewhat interrelated, precise consideration
requires more explicit statement of the statutory scheme
in its application to the facts.
Washington's plan of industrial insurance is much like
that of Ohio, briefly described in Copperweld Steel Co. v.
Industrial Commission, 324 U. S. 780; cf. Mattson v.
Department of Labor, 293 U. S. 151. The state Supreme
Court has characterized the system as neither an employers' liability act nor an ordinary workmen's compensation act, but rather as an industrial insurance statute
having all the features of an insurance act. Stertz v. Industrial Insurance Commission, 91 Wash. 588, 594-595,
158 P. 256. Salient characteristics, for present purposes,
include the maintenance and administration by the state
of an accident fund, which is paid into the state treasury
by employers pursuant to annual assessments made by
the Director of Labor and Industries, through the Supervisor of Industrial Insurance. Except in situations not
presently material,8 injured employees are deprived of
common-law causes of action against their employers and
are restricted to recovery from this fund as reparation for
injuries sustained at work.
Cf. note 18.
'E. g., the Act provides that an employer, defaulting in his payment of premiums, shall be liable to suit by the injured workman, as
prior to 1911, but without specified defenses then available. Rem.

Rev. Stat. Wash., §7676.

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

The Director is empowered to promulgate, change and
revise rates to be paid by employer contributors. The
scheme for determining the rates is somewhat complicated,
requiring classification of contributors and their work according to its hazard; and adjustment of premiums to
take account of the cost experience not only of each class
but also of each employer, as well as the condition of the
fund. Rem. Rev. Stat. Wash., § 7676. A basic premium
rate, to apply for the ensuing calendar year, is fixed
annually for each class, which takes account of its cost
experience over a two-year period and of the condition of
the class fund. At the same time a premium rate of each
employer is fixed with relation to each class, also to apply
for the ensuing year, which takes into consideration the
employer's average cost experience "for each workman
hour reported by him during each fiscal year . . . over
the five year period" immediately preceding the determination. The actual premium rate the employer is
required to pay consists of 40 per cent of the basic rate
plus 60 per cent of his cost rate as thus determined; but
in no event is the total rate to exceed 160 per cent of the
basic rate.
Premiums when paid are placed to the credit of the
employer in the appropriate fund, but become the exclusive property of the state, earmarked and appropriated
for the specific uses provided by the statute. Rem. Rev.
Stat. Wash., § 7676. See State ex rel. Trenholm v. Yelle,
174 Wash. 547, 550. No provision is made for repayment
or recovery of any employer's contribution once it is paid
in, regardless of whether the full amount is required to
compensate his or others' employees for injuries sustained;
and no such repayments are contemplated. Awards are
payable solely from the appropriate fund thus accumulated and payment is in no wise dependent upon the employer's continued existence, operation or contribution
to the fund. Nor, under the plan, can payment affect the
rate of premium for the year in which the award is allowed.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

In view of these provisions and effects, the state Supreme Court has declared that neither the employer nor
the employee has a vested right or interest in the fund;
the moneys when collected are public moneys, held and
administered by the state, albeit pursuant to the statutory
purpose they constitute a "trust fund" for the benefit of
injured workmen and their dependents. The fund is
therefore in no sense the private property of the employer.
Consequently the payment of awards out of the fund in
itself could not amount to a deprivation of the employer's
property. Indeed, appellant does not urge that the application of moneys previously paid in to the payment of
an award of itself works the claimed unconstitutional result. Rather this is said to arise from the effect the
award and its payment may have, by virtue of the statute's provisions relating to cost experience in the fixing of
rates, upon appellant's liability for the payment of premiums in the future. It is anticipated, not presently
realized or immediate, financial injury of which complaint
is made.
As has been noted, in computing the rate of premium
the Director is required to take into account not only the
cost experience of each class over a previous two-year
period, but also the average cost experience of each employer over the immediately preceding five-year period,
in addition to "the then condition of each class and/or
sub-class account." The quoted reference relates to the
requirements for the keeping of class accounts, in the administration of the fund, for crediting of the payments
9See the opinion of the court upon the first appeal in this cause,
21 Wash. 2d 420, 427-429; Mattson v. Department of Labor, 176
Wash. 345, 347-348, 29 P. 2d 675, affirmed, 293 U. S. 151, holding that
the 1927 amendment putting a limit of three years to the employee's
right to claim compensation as of right impaired no vested right of
the employee, whether of property or equal protection under the
Fourteenth Amendment, or of contract under Article I, § 10, of the
Federal Constitution, and authorities cited.

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

made by each employer to the appropriate accounts, and
for the charging of awards made to or on account of injuries to his employees against his experience. Rem. Rev.
Stat. Wash., § 7676. It is this charge of which appellant
complains, in the view apparently that it necessarily will

entail the payment of a higher premium in years following the one in which the award is made, when the rate

computed as the statute requires will reflect inclusion of
the award in its cost experience. Accordingly, since it
determines that the charge will be made, the allowance

of an award is said to be a matter vitally affecting the
employer's substantive liability and constitutes a final

adjudication of that liability to the extent that the charge
may affect the future rate.

Moreover, the statute provides in its procedural phases
for the employer to have notice and the right to participate

fully in the determination."

It must be taken that this

right is conferred for the employer's protection in the fixing of rates as they may be affected by the allowance of

awards through the inclusion of his cost experience as a
factor in rate computation. Especially in view of these
2oReport of accident and claim for compensation must be filed with
the appellee Department of Labor and Industries. If either the
claimant or the employer is aggrieved by any order, decision or award,
he may petition for rehearing before the Joint Board of the Department. If rehearing is granted, the board may receive testimony.
Appeal lies from the board's order to the Superior Court, where the
matter is triable de novo, but upon the record made before the board,
and from the Superior Court's judgment to the Supreme Court. Rem.
Rev. Stat. Wash., § 7686; (1943 Supp.) § 7697.
No complaint is made that appellant did not have full benefit of
the Act's procedural protections.
Although the Act does not provide specifically for the employer to
contest the validity of an award at the time the Department is fixing
the rate for the ensuing year 'or when he is called upon to pay that
premium, it does not appear affirmatively that he may not have
remedy then under the general law of the state. Cf. Coppetweld
Steel Co. v. IndustrialCommiusion, 324 U. S. 780.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

procedural protections, appellant urges that its substantive liability, once it is terminated through barring of a
claimant's right to proceed by lapse of time, becomes an
adjudicated matter, substantive, not merely procedural or
remedial in character; and cannot therefore be revived
consistently with the decision in the Danzer case.
Were this all, and were the state of the record plain that
the allowance of the award necessarily would result in a
later increase of the premium, we would be confronted
with the necessity of determining whether such an increase
would constitute the kind of injury or detriment forbidden
by the due process clause. A mere increase in premium,
under a compulsory and publicly administered accident
insurance plan, designed to operate at cost based upon
general and individual experience rather than at an arbitrary figure," and surrounded with adequate procedural
safeguards against arbitrary action, would not seem to be
so obviously harsh or arbitrary in its effect upon employers
generally that it could be said without question to be
beyond the scope of the state's regulatory power or in
violation of the due process prohibition of the federal
Constitution.
But we are not faced with the necessity for deciding
that question. Although appellant's brief states that "the
award will be paid in large measure" by itself, it is not
2The original act, as adopted in 1911, provided for a uniform rate
of premium to be collected from all employers. Laws of Wash., 1911,
c. 74, § 4. The cost feature based upon experience was introduced in
1931. Laws of Wash., 1931, c. 104, § 1.
The original act with its feature of "uniform payment" was held
constitutional by this Court in Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington,
243 U. S. 219, affirming State v. Mountain Timber Co., 75 Wash. 581,
135 P. 645. See also State ex rel. Davis-Smith Co. v. Clausen, 65 Wash.
156, 117 P. 1101. The "cost experience" amendment was said to be
valid in State ex rel. Crabb v. Olinger, 196 Wash. 308, 82 P. 2d 865,
overruled on another point in St. Paul & Tacoma Lumber Co. v. Department of Labor, 19 Wash. 2d 639, 649, 144 P. 2d 250.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U.S.

asserted that this burden will result from any increase in
appellant's rate or in fact that any increase necessarily will
follow from allowance and payment of the award. On the
contrary, the statement seems obviously irrelevant, or
erroneous in so far as it may be taken to imply that either
of these consequences will follow, since in no event can
the award be paid out of the funds collected from an increase produced wholly or in part by its allowance. It is
not until after the award has been allowed that it can be
charged to the employer's experience or affect his rate of
contribution.
Moreover, if appellant is taken to argue that an increase
will result for the year or years following the award's
allowance, the record neither demonstrates this nor furnishes support for an inference that such a result necessarily or even probably will follow. As the Department
points out, the payment when made may be one factor in
determining appellant's future rate. But the record does
not disclose what rate appellant has been paying. For
all that appears, this may be the maximum permitted by
the statute, in which event no injury, present or future,
could result from allowance and payment of the award.n'
Moreover, if it were assumed that the rate was less than
the maximum, whether or not an increase would result
or, if so, whether it would be substantial, are questions
wholly speculative.
A variety of considerations makes them so. Appellant's
experience is but one factor in the computation. It affects
only 60 per cent of the actual rate. A single award is
reflected in this fraction only as it affects the five-year
individual average. When so reflected the amount of resulting increase in that average and in the fraction may
be infinitesimal or insubstantial. The ultimate effect upon
- Except possibly upon the contingency, equally speculative upon
the record, that the maximum rate might be reduced in case the
charge resulting from the award were not made.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

the actual rate will be watered down nearly by half
through inclusion of the 40 per cent factor for class experience. Since the condition of the fund also must be
considered, this too may minimize further the effect or,
so far as appears, make an increase entirely unnecessary.
The record furnishes no evidence concerning the condition
of the fund, the class experience over the required period
or the appellant's individual experience over the specified
five years. The amount of the award is small, $460.50.
In sum, all that the record discloses is that this amount
will be charged against the appellant's experience and
taken into account with other factors, as the statute requires, in the computation for some future period, with
possibly some increase resulting in the rate. But, in the
absence of all evidence showing the facts concerning the
other factors, it is entirely problematical whether an increase will follow or, if so, whether it will be wholly mathematical and infinitesimal or substantial in its ultimate
effect upon appellant. This being so, appellant's complaint comes down, on the record, to nothing more than
the bare possibility of some injury in the future.
The Fourteenth Amendment, through the due process
clause, does not assure protection from the states' regulatory powers against injuries so remote, contingent and
Some substantial and more immediate
speculative.'
harm must be shown to present a justiciable question concerning the state's power. The injury, as it appears from
this record, is neither so certain nor so substantial as to
justify a finding, upon that showing, that appellant's substantial rights have been or will be invaded by allowance
and payment of the award.
"8 Cf. Mallinckrodt Chemical Works v. Missouri ex rel. Jones, 238
U. S. 41, 54; Plymouth Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S. 531,
544-545, and authorities cited. Cf. also Castillo v. McConnico, 168
U. S. 674, 680; Tyler v. Judges of the Court of Registration, 179
U. S. 405; Frothingham v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488.

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Moreover, under the Act's procedural provisions, appellant has at no time been free from this contingent liability,
whether before or after the 1941 amendment. For, although the 1927 amendment precluded the employee from
filing claim as of right after the three-year period, it followed the original act in placing no limit upon the time
within which the Department, of its own motion, might
reopen the claim and increase, reduce or terminate the
compensation.1 ' Appellant therefore was at all times
substantively liable to have its premium rate increased by
the allowance of an award for aggravation; and the initial
award, in consequence, was in no sense res judicata against
later imposition of this liability'
Appellant's contrary
argument erroneously correlates its own liability to pay
14 See the terms of subsection (h) in its original and amended forms
as set forth in note 5; Smith v. Departmentof Labor, 8 Wash. 2d 587,
113 P. 2d 57; cf. note 15.
5
2 It was exactly to prevent such rigid finality that the statute preserved both the Department's unlimited power to reopen the case

and the employee's power to have it reopened as a matter of right
during the limited period. From the beginning the Act seems to
have been drawn to avoid the crystallizing effects of the doctrine of
res judicatain relation to awards, whether as against the employer or
the employee. The idea apparently was that the initial award for
an injury would afford compensation for harms then apparent and
proved. But it was recognized, on the one hand, that all harmful
consequences might not have become apparent at that time and, on
the other, that harms then shown to exist might later be terminated
or minimized. Cf. Choctaw Portland Cement Co. v. Lamb, 79 Okla.
109, 110, 189 P. 750. The purpose of the provisions for reopening,
whether at the instance of the employer, the employee, or the Department, of. notes 5 and 14, obviously was to prevent the initial
award from finally cutting off power to take account of these later
frequent developments. It was to maintain a mobile system, capable
of adapting the amount of compensation from time to time in accordance with the facts relating to the injurious consequences for disability
as they actually develop, not to cut off rigidly the power either to increase or to decrease the compensation once an award had become
"final" for purposes of appeal.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of the Court.

premiums, for purposes of applying the statute's bar, with
the employee's right formally to institute the proceedings
(and to have judicial review) for securing an award, and
assumes that this liability was terminated."
It is true that the restoration, by the 1941 amendment,
of the employee's right of taking the initiative may have
had practical effects toward increasing the rates of premium, although none are shown by this record with any
certainty. But appellant is seeking to have a state statute voided on the ground that it works a substantial
injury to its substantive rights by creating or recreating
a liability which had been extinguished by previously applicable law. It thereby has undertaken to demonstrate
not only the injury and its substantial character, but as
part of that burden the extinction of the preexisting substantive liability. This it has not done and could not do,
in view of the Department's power to reopen the claim.
It has succeeded only in showing that one mode provided
by the preexisting law for bringing the liability into play
had been terminated. It was this and only this which
the 1941 amendment revived. At the most, therefore, appellant's injury, if it were otherwise more substantial,
would consist in the restoration of an alternative, if also
possibly a more effective, method for putting in motion
the machinery provided for making an award.
In our view appellant has not made the showing of
substantial harm, actual or impending, to any legally protected interest which is necessary to call in question the
.'Obviously the liability and the right were not coextensive in
duration, since the one continued after the other had been cut off.
'They were lacking also in correlation of obligation, since the employer
was bound to pay the fund, not the employee; and the latter recovered
from the fund, not the emplbyer. Right and liability are usually
-correlative in a legal relation. But in this instance the correlation, as
appellant poses it, is lacking; for two legal relations are involved, from
each of which it seeks to extract a correlative.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
326 U. S.

Opinion of DOUGLAS, J.

statute's validity. 7 Accordingly, the appeal must be and
hereby is
Dismissed.

8

MR. JUSTICE BLACK is of the opinion that the only practical effect of the challenged state statute was to give to
an injured employee a right to judicial review of an administrative action; that a contention that such a statute
violates the Federal Constitution is frivolous; and that
the appeal should be dismissed for that reason.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, with whom MR. JUSTICE BURTON
concurs.
We cannot agree that the injury to appellant is so remote and speculative as to preclude it from attacking on
constitutional grounds the award in question. The award,
whether small or great, enters into the employer's cost
experience; and the future premium payable by the employer reflects in part any increase or decrease in his cost
experience. If the employer is not paying the maximum
rate, an increase in his cost experience will inevitably make
1? Cf. Mattson v. Department of Labor, 293 U. S. 151.

11 Appellees have urged that the 1941 amendment did no more than
restore the right of judicial review, as to claims filed after the threeyear period, which prior to 1927 had existed with reference to all
claims for aggravation without limitation as to time; and therefore
the amendment could be taken in no way to violate any provision
of the Constitution. It is true that the 1941 amendment restored
the employee's right of judicial review where previously none had
existed. But it accomplished more. It invested the employee with
the right to require the Department itself to proceed, where previously no such right existed. Whether or not this would give cause
for complaint, if the right were coupled with a more substantial and
less contingent injury than is shown to exist in this case and with a
previous total extinction of the employer's liability, need not be

determined.

GANGE LUMBER CO. v. ROWLEY.
295

Opinion of DOUGiAS, J.

him pay a rate which would be lower but for the increase
in his cost experience. And if, perchance, he is already
paying the maximum rate, an increase in his cost experience will inevitably hold him there longer or lessen any
reduction to which he otherwise would be entitled. The
precise effect on future rates cannot, of course, be presently
ascertained. Nor could it be shown in any case, whether
the award was $460 or $46,000. For the rates are fixed
annually and at the time of any one award all of the
elements entering into the future computation will not be
known. So if this employer is barred here because he can
show no injufy, he and all other employers will be barred
in every case.1 Yet we know from the operation of the
system that the cost experience of each employer determines 60 per cent of his future rate. Their respective
costs also affect to a lesser degree the basic premium rate
applicable to each employer's class, and 40 per cent of that
basic rate is reflected in the actual premium rate paid by
each employer in that class. We might as well say that
no employer could ever challenge the constitutionality of
an award under this system because bankruptcy, fire or
some cataclysm might-put him out of business before a
new rate is fixed.
On the merits we think Campbell v. Holt, 115 U. S., 620,
and Chase Securities Corp. v. Donaldson, 325 U. S. 304,
govern this case. At no time was the employee's claim
for aggravation extinguished. At all times the Department could have reopened the claim and made an additional award. We therefore do not reach the question of
I We are not advised that the employer can contest the validity
of a prior award at the time the Department of Labor and Industries
is fixing the premium rate to be paid into the fund for the ensuing
year. The pertinent statute (Rem. Rev. Stat. § 7676) does not prescribe such a remedy and the decision of the Washington Supreme
Court in Mud Bay Logging Co. v. Department of Labor, 189 Wash.
285, 286, 64 P. 2d 1054, would seem to indicate that it is not contemplated.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Syllabus.

326 U. S.

the constitutionality of an act which makes it possible to
enlarge an award where previously there had been a final
adjudication of the claim. Cf. Danzer & Co. v. Gulf &
Ship Island R. Co., 268 U. S. 633.
We would affirm the judgment.

INTERNATIONAL SHOE CO. v. STATE OF
WASHINGTON ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 107.

Argued November 14, 1945.-Decided December 3, 1945.

Activities within a State of salesmen in the employ of a foreign corporation, exhibiting samples of merchandise and soliciting orders
from prospective buyers to be accepted or rejected by the corporation at a point outside the State, were systematic and continuous,
and resulted in a large volume of interstate business. A statute of
the State requires employers to pay into the state unemployment
compensation fund a specified percentage of the wages paid for the
services of employees within the State. Held:
1. In view of 26 U. S. C. § 1606 (a), providing that no person shall
be relieved from compliance with a state law requiring payments to
an unemployment fund on the ground that he is engaged in interstate commerce, the fact that the corporation is engaged in interstate
commerce does not relieve it from liability for payments to the
state unemployment compensation fund. P. 315.
2. The activities in behalf of the corporation render it amenable
to suit in courts of the State to recover payments due to the state
unemployment compensation fund. P. 320.
(a) The activities in question established between the State
and the corporation sufficient contacts or ties to make it reasonable
and just, and in conformity to the due process requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, for the State to enforce against the corporation an obligation arising out of such activities. P. 320.
(b) In such a suit to recover payments due to the unemployment compensation fund, service of process upon one of the corporation's salesmen within the State, and notice sent by registered
mail to the corporation at its home office, satisfies the requirements
of due process. P. 320.

