536

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
326 U. S.

Syllabus.

in the chain of judgment is decisive, whatever its label.'
If the ultimate conclusion of the Tax Court or its divisions
can be made in exactly opposing ways, and must be left
undisturbed, without substantial differentiating facts, or
when hybrid arrangements bear tax indicia equally with
marks of non-taxability, not only is the statutory review
nullified. The right of taxpayers to be treated with equal
justice before the law is denied.
MASON v. PARADISE IRRIGATION

DISTRICT.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
NINTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 306: Submitted December 4, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
1. A plan for composition of debts of an irrigation district under
Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Act provided that the holders of
outstanding bonds were to be paid in cash 52.521 cents on each
dollar of principal, exclusive of interest, the cash to be supplied
through a loan from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, which
was to receive new or refunding 4 per cent bonds in the principal
amount of its loan. Creditors owning not less than 92 per cent in
amount of the bonds accepted the plan, consented to the filing of
the petition, and deposited their bonds under the plan. The R. F. C.
did not advance the funds to the irrigation district but purchased
the bonds at the composition figure and registered them in its name.
The old bonds so acquired remained obligations of the irrigation
district, were held by the R. F. C. as security for its advances, and
were to be exchanged under the plan for 4 per cent refunding bonds
in the full amount of its cash advances. The R. F. C., as holder of
about 92 per cent of the bonds, approved the plan prior to the
filing of the petition. There was full disclosure to the security
holders and to the court. The bankruptcy court, finding that all
of the outstanding bonds were of one class, that the requisite perThe legal element is not eliminated merely because it appears in
"a molecular combination of fact and law which defies separation."
Berry v. Irving Place Corp., 52 F. Supp. 875, 881. It may be the dominant element in the combination. When it is, minutiae of factual
difference should not govern result or sustain conflicting outcomes.

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
536

537

Syllabus.

centage of bondholders had approved the plan, that the irrigation
district was unable to meet its debts as they matured, that the plan
was fair, equitable and for the best interests of creditors, and that
it did not discriminate unfairly in favor of any creditor, approved
the plan. Mason, who owned some of the old bonds and had
opposed the plan, appealed, contending that, since he and the
R. F. C. were put in the same class, they should be treated alike
and he should receive 4 per cent refunding bonds, instead of 52.521
cents in cash on each dollar of principal. There was no showing
that the full value of his claim was more than 52.521 cents on the
dollar. Held that this Court is unable to say that the bankruptcy
court was not warranted in finding that the cash offer was fair and
equitable. P. 546.
2. The mere fact that the R. F. C. holds the vast majority of all the
bonds and is in a dominant position in the reorganization does not
mean that it is entitled to preferred treatment. P. 541.
3. However, those who put new money into a distressed enterprise
may be given preferred treatment. Pp. 541, 543.
4. Congress intended the R. F. C. to be treated in such situations as
a creditor. P. 542.
5. The securities acquired by the R. F. C. pursuant to the plan of
composition are not extinguished and may be computed in determining the percentage of consenting creditors necessary for the
filing of a petition under Chapter IX. P. 542.
6. Since there was no showing that 52.521 cents in cash was not as
advantageous as 52.521 cents in refunding bonds, it is impossible
for this Court to say that, although a difference in treatment was
warranted, any discrimination in favor of the R. F. C. was so great
as to be unfair. P. 543.
7. While the provision of 11 U. S. C. § 403 (b) to the effect that
holders of all claims payable without preference from the same
source shall be put in one class states the general rule, the bankruptcy court has the power to make a different classification where
inequitable results would otherwise obtain. P. 544.
8. Under § 403 (j) the securities acquired by the R. F. C. may be
included in the percentage of consenting securities necessary for
the filing of a petition under Chapter IX. P. 544.
9. Section 403 (d), requiring approval by creditors "holding at least
two-thirds of the aggregate amount of claims of all classes," is
construed to mean two-thirds of the total amount of all claims in all
classes and not two-thirds of each class. P. 544.
10. The purpose of this legislation to give taxing agencies a workable
and practical method of obtaining relief from oppressive debt bur-

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

dens would be thwarted or impeded if Chapter IX were given a
construction which placed the fate of composition plans in the
hands of minority, non-consenting bondholders. P. 545.
11. Provision "for the protection" of the claims of non-assenting
creditors, as provided in § 403 (d), could be made by leaving them
undisturbed; but, if the non-assenting creditors had the option to
come in under the plan or to retain their old securities, the debtor
would be unable to get the relief which Chapter IX affords or could
do so only on such terms as a minority dictated. P. 545.
12. Assuming that provision "for the protection" of the claims of
non-assenting creditors could be made under § 403 (d) in ways
other than by leaving the claims undisturbed, there would seem to
be no reason why payment in cash of the full value of their claims
would not be adequate. P. 546.
149 F. 2d 334, affirmed.
CERTIORari, post, p. 704, to review affirmance of a decree

approving a plan of composition of the debts of an irrigation district under Chapter IX of the Bankruptcy Sctlimited to the question whether it was proper to approve

a plan which treated petitioner differently from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
Petitioner submitted pro se.
Mr. P. M. Barceloux submitted for respondent.
MR. JUsncE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Respondent is organized under the laws of the State
of California and located in the County of Butte of that
State. It experienced financial difficulties in the 1930's.
It had outstanding $476,000 principal amount of bonds
bearing interest at the rate of 6 per cent. Being unable
to collect taxes sufficient to service the bonds, it tried to
work out a debt readjustment program. It applied for
a loan from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. A
loan of $252,500 was arranged, provided all the holders
of the outstanding bonds agreed to the refinancing pro-

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
Opinion of the Court.

536

gram. The offer to the bondholders was that they surrender their bonds for 52.521 cents on each dollar of principal, exclusive of interest-an amount which respondent
deemed fair to the bondholders and to the owners of the
land in the district. The holders of about 92 per cent of
the principal amount of the outstanding bonds agreed.
Respondent, being unable to obtain the assent of the holders of the remaining bonds, filed its petition under Ch.
IX of the Bankruptcy Act late in 1937. 50 Stat. 653, 52
Stat. 939, 54 Stat. 667, 11 U. S. C. § 401. It submitted
with its petition its plan of composition or debt readjustment and prayed, inter alia, that the plan be approved.
The plan provided that the holders of the outstanding
bonds be paid in cash 52.521 cents on each dollar -of principal, exclusive of interest; that the cash was to be supplied
from the proceeds of a loan of $252,500 from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation; that the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation was to receive new or refunding 4
per cent bonds in the principal amount of its loan, and 4
per cent on all disbursements from the date thereof until
the new or refunding bonds were issued to it. The petition recited that the creditors owning not less than 92
per cent in amount of the bonds had accepted the plan
and consented to the filing of the petition.' It appears
that the consenting bondholders had deposited their bonds
under the plan; that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation did not advance the funds to respondent but,
acting through a bank, purchased the bonds at the composition figure and registered the bonds in its name; that
in accordance with the terms of the contract between respondent and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation,
1 See.

403 (a) requires the petition to state, interalia, that "creditors

of the petitioner owning not less than 51 per centum in amount of
the securities affected by the plan (excluding, however, any such
securities owned, held, or controlled by the petitioner), have accepted
it in writing."

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

the old bonds so acquired remained obligations of respondent, were held by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation
as security for its advances and are to be exchanged under
the plan for 4 per cent refunding bonds. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation, as holder of about 92 per cent
of the bonds, approved the plan prior to the filing of the
petition under Ch. IX.
The District Court found that all of the outstanding
bonds were of one and the same class,' that the requisite
percentage of bondholders had approved the plan,' that
respondent was unable to meets its debts as they matured,'
and held that the plan was fair, equitable and for the best
interests of its creditors and did not unfairly discriminate
in favor of any creditor.' It accordingly approved the
plan. 6
Petitioner is the owner of $29,000 principal amount of
the old bonds who opposed the plan of composition. His
objections were not sustained in the District Court. The
Circuit Court of Appeals likewise overruled them. 149
F. 2d 334. The case is here on a petition for a writ of certiorari which we granted because of a conflict among
2Sec.

403 (b) provides that "the holders of all claims, regardless of

the manner in which they are evidenced, which are payable without
preference out of funds derived from the same source or sources
shall be of one class. The holders of claims for the payment of which
specific property or revenues are pledged, or which are otherwise given
preference as provided by law, shall accordingly constitute a separate
class or classes of creditors."
8

Sec. 403 (d) provides that a plan of composition shall not be con-

firmed, with exceptions not material here, "until it has been accepted
in writing, by or on behalf of creditors holding at least two-thirds of
the aggregate amount of claims of all classes affected" by the plan,
excluding "claims owned, held, or controlled by the petitioner."
'Sec. 403 (a) requires the petition to state that the petitioner is
"insolvent or unable to meet its debts as they mature." Among the
findings required by § 403 (e) for confirmation of a plan is that it
"complies with the provisions of this chapter."
5 That finding is required by § 403 (e).
6 November, 1943.

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
536

Opinion of the Court.

the Circuit Courts of Appeals,' limited to the question
whether it was proper to approve a plan which treated
petitioner differently from the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation.
Petitioner argues that since he and the Reconstruction
Finance Corporation were put in the same class, the rule
of "equality between creditors" applicable in bankruptcy
proceedings (Clarke v. Rogers, 228 U. S. 534, 548) required that they be treated alike. In other words, he
contends that instead of being required to take 52.521
cents in cash on each dollar of principal, he should receive
4 per cent refunding bonds.
We held in American United Ins. Co. v. Avon Park, 311
U. S. 138, 147, that the principle of equality between
creditors governed compositions under Ch. IX as it did
compositions under the old § 12. The fact that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation holds the vast majority
of all the bonds and therefore is in a dominant position in
the reorganization does not mean that it is entitled to
preferred treatment. It is clear that it is not. American
United Ins. Co. v. Avon Park, supra, p. 148. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation has not by purchasing
bonds in the market acquired merely a speculative position in the plan of composition. Nor is it merely in the
position of a holder of a majority of the bonds. By contract with the debtor it has underwritten the whole refinancing program. It has ventured the capital necessary
to effectuate the plan of composition. It has long been
recognized in reorganization law that those who put new
money into the distressed enterprise may be given a participation in the reorganization plan reasonably equiv7 Texas v. Tabasco School Dist., 132 F. 2d 62, 133 F. 2d 196, decided by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals, is to be contrasted to
the decision below and to West Coast Life Ins. Co. v. Merced Irrigation Dist., 114 F. 2d 654, decided by the Ninth Circuit Court of
Appeals and also to Luehrmann v. Drainage Dist., 104 F. 2d 696,
decided by the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals.

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

alent to their contribution. Case v. Los Angeles Lumber
Products Co., 308 U. S. 106, 117, 121-122 and cases cited;
Ecker v. Western PacicR. Corp., 318 U. S. 448, 486-487.
That rule is based or practical necessities. Without the
inducement new money could not be obtained.
It is said, however, that the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation when it becomes the holder of bonds must
be treated on the basis that it is a creditor and not an
outside lender of money. It is clear that Congress intended the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to be
treated in situations like the present as a creditor. Sec.
402 of the Act provides that "Any agency of the United
States holding securities acquired pursuant to contract
with any petitioner under this chapter shall be deemed a
creditor in the amount of the full face value thereof."
The Reconstruction Finance Corporation is such an
agency. See. 403 (j) gives securities acquired, as here,
pursuant to a plan of composition prior to the filing of a
petition the same recognition as any other securities.8 It
is thus apparent that securities acquired by the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, pursuant to a plan of composition, are not extinguished, remain securities "affected
by the plan," ' and may be computed in determining the
8Sec. 403 (j) reads as follows: "The partial completion or execution of any plan of composition as outlined in any petition filed under
the terms of this title by the exchange of new evidences of indebtednewo under the plan for evidences of indebtedness covered by the
plan, whether such partial completion or execution of such plan of
composition occurred before or after the filing of said petition, shall
not be construed as limiting or*prohibiting the effect of this title,
and the written consent of the holders of any securities outstanding
as the result of any such partial completion or execution of any plan
of composition shall be included as consenting creditors to such plan
of composition in determining the percentage of securities affected by
such plan of composition."
'For a discussion of the history of § 403 (j) see West Coast.IdLf
Ins. Co. v. Merced Irrigation Diet., supra note 7, pp. 667--668.

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
536

Opinion of the Court.

percentage of consenting creditors necessary for the filing
of a petition under Ch. IX. 10 If the Act were construed
as requiring the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in
situat ofis like the present to be treated as every other
creditor of the same class, the fact that it had underwritten
the whole refinancing program would be considered irrelevant. But as we have seen, he who furnishes new
capital to a distressed enterprise has long been accorded
preferred treatment. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation contributes something that Mason does not. It
furnishes the underwriting which makes the refinancing
possible. It gives something of value for the preferred
treatment which it receives. The other security holders
of the same class give nothing new. That difference warrants a difference in treatment. Case v. Los Angeles Lumber ProductsCo., supra;Ecker v. Western PacificR. Corp.,
supra. The plan, of course, must be fair and equitable
and it must "not discriminate unfairly" in favor of any
creditor. § 403 (e). A secret advantage would not meet
that test. American United Ins. Co. v. Avon Park, supra.
But here there was full disclosure to the security holders
and to the court. Petitioner receives 52.521 cents on each
dollar of principal amount of his bonds. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation receives new and refunding
bonds in the face amount of its cash advances. It is, of
course, possible that 52#521 cents in cash may not be as
advantageous an offer as 52.521 cents in new and refunding bonds. But there is no showing that it is not. Hence
it is impossible for us to say that, although a difference
in treatment was warranted, any discrimination in favor
of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation was so great
as to be unfair.
A different question arises when we come to the classification of creditors for voting on a plan of composition.
20 See note 1, supra.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
Opinion of the Court.

326 U. S.

Sec. 403 (b) provides that there shall be put in one class
holders of all claims payable without preference from the
same source. 1 While this provision states.the general rule,
we said in American United Ins. Co. v. Avon Park, supra,
p. 146, that the bankruptcy court has the power to make
a different classification where inequitable results would
otherwise obtain. We assume that a majority bondholder
who was receiving preferred treatment under a plan by
reason of his underwriting or otherwise would normally
have to be put in a different class when it came to voting
on the plan. But we see no reason why Congress could
not provide otherwise. As we have seen, § 402 allows the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation to be treated as a
creditor in the amount of the full face value of the securities it acquired. By reason of § 403 (j) those securities
may be included in the percentage of consenting securities necessary for the filing of a petition under Chapter IX.
Those provisions were inserted to make these refinancing
programs possible and practical. They give statutory
sanction to this particular method of refinancing. Sec.
403 (d) requires approval by creditors "holding at least
two-thirds of the aggregate amount of claims of all classes"
affected by the plan.'2 If that is construed to mean not
two-thirds of each class but two-thirds of the total amount
of all claims in all classes, the separate classification of the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation would make no difference in result in the present case. For all of the bonds
held by it are more than two-thirds of the aggregate
amount of all claims affected by the plan. Only if the Act
were construed to mean that two-thirds of each class is
necessary for approval of a plan would the separate classification of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation produce a different result in this case. Such a construction,
however, would place the success of these refinancing pro"

See note 2, supra.
2 See note 3, supra.

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
536

Opinion of the Court.

grams at the mercy of the minority interests. If it were
necessary in this type of case to put non-assenting bondholders in a separate class, they could block the refinancing
program even though it were fair and equitable and the
only feasible one which the debtor could work out. In
designing this legislation Congress was solicitous not only
to protect the position of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation in these refinancing programs" but also to give
this class of debtors a workable and practical method of
obtaining relief from oppressive debt burdens. That purpose would be thwarted or impeded if we gave Ch. IX a
construction which placed the fate of these plans in the
hands of minority, non-consenting bondholders. The aim
to provide a method of forcing "recalcitrant minority creditors into agreement" (H. Rep. No. 517, 75th Cong., 1st
Sess., p. 3) would be defeated. For once such a rule were
announced minority bondholders would have a great nuisance value, making it worthwhile for them to lie back
until they got their price.!
It is suggested that the plan might be approved without
the consent of the minority if, as provided in § 403 (d),
"provision is made in the plan for the protection of the
interests, claims, or lien of such creditors or class of creditors." Provision "for the protection" of the claims of nonIs That the Reconstruction Finance Corporation would play an important role in these refinancing programs was in the forefront when
this legislation was before Congress. See H. Rep. No. 517, supra, p.
4; 81 Cong. Rec. 6322.
14 Congressman Sumners, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, stated during the debate: "The force of the bill is directed
against that minority present in every effort of debtors and creditors
to bring the total of amounts payable within the ability of the debtor
to pay. It is the minority who try to take advantage of the general
desire to settle to compel an advantage to themselves in order to
remove their selfishly interposed obstruction. They are hold-up men
operating within the law." 81 Cong. Rec. 6313. The same view was
expressed by Senator Pepper who managed the legislation on the floor
of the Senate. 81 Cong. Rec. 8543.

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FRNxxauRTER, J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

assenting creditors could be made by leaving them undisturbed. But the purpose of Ch. IX is to provide taxing
agencies with a method of scaling down their debt structures and reducing their debt service requirements when
the need for relief is shown. If the non-assenting creditors
had the option to come in under the plan or to retain their
old securities, the debtor would be unable to get the relief
which Ch. IX affords, or could do so only on such terms
as the minority dictated. The other alternative would be
to abandon this type of refinancing. But as we have seen,
it has statutory sanction. It is said, however, that provision "for the protection" of the claims of non-assenting
creditors could be made in ways other than leaving the
claims undisturbed. If, arguendo,we assume that is true,
we see no reason why payment in cash of the full value
of the claims would not be adequate. That is permissible
in connection with reorganizations under Ch. IX. 52 Stat.
840, 11 U. S. C. § 616 (7). It is indeed the historic method
of dealing with dissenters under plans of reorganization.
Case v. Los Angeles Lumber Products Co., supra, p. 121,
note 15. No reason is apparent why, under our assumption, the same could not be done under Ch. IX. Yet, even
in that view, the present plan was properly confirmed.
For there is no showing whatsoever that the full value of
Mason's claims is more than 52.521 cents on the dollar
which he receives in cash. The District Court, indeed,
found that the cash offer was fair and equitable and we
are unable to say that that finding was not warranted.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTicr, JACKSON took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

The Court holds that the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is not to be treated as an ordinary bondholdercreditor but is entitled to preferred treatment because it

MASON v. PARADISE DISTRICT.
536

FRANKFURTER,

547

J., dissenting.

acquired the bonds of the debtor as part of an arrangement which made possible financing of the plan of composition. With this I agree. But I find nothing in Chapter IX which, while permitting the R. F. C. to be considered a preferred creditor for purposes of distribution,
allows it to be classified among ordinary creditors for purposes of voting. Nor do considerations of policy require
that the R. F. C. be given such a two-faced character. It
is suggested that if the votes of a preferred creditor in the
position of the R. F. C. could not be counted with the votes
of the ordinary creditors that class might not furnish the
necessary two-thirds of the aggregate amount of claims
of that class. It must be remembered, however, that the
mere failure of a class like that of ordinary creditors, e. g.,
those having no preferred position in the scheme for distribution, to accept a plan of composition does not prove
that its resistance is improperly or unfairly recalcitrant.
Cf. American United Ins. Co. v. Avon Park,311 U. S. 138,
148. And recognition that bordholders may exercise their
statutory rights as common creditors not to assent does
not, of course, make of them a separate class of non-assenting bondholders with a veto power over the plan. But if
the recalcitrancy does represent a dog-in-the-manger
attitude, Chapter IX would seem to have provided for
the contingency. According to § 83 (d) of the Act, 50 Stat.
653, 657, 11 U. S. C. § 403 (d), a plan might be approved
without the otherwise necessary vote, not only where the
claims of the creditors "are not affected by the plan," but
also where "provision is made in the plan for the protection
of the interests, claims, or lien of such creditors or class
of creditors." But, though the bankruptcy court has the
power of dispensing with the need of an approving vote
by a class of creditors, by protecting that class' interests,
it is not available where the court has not in fact determined, as it has not in this case, that the dissent of that
class was an abusive exercise of their right to veto a plan.

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1945.
FuarmK

mmrh,J., dissenting.

326 U. S.

To give such flexible scope to §83 (d), 1 though, like
other provisions of Chapter IX, it is not free from ambi-

guity, is the more pertinent if, as suggested, Chapter IX
requires approval of two-thirds not of each class of claims
but of the total amount of all claims. See Remington,
Bankruptcy (1939) § 4364. On the other hand, if approval
of the plan by two-thirds of each class is required, such a
requirement can only mean that a group of more than one-

third of any class is capable of exercising the veto power,
except when § 83 (d) can be invoked.

In establishing

these classes, creditors are not properly grouped who, on
IThat this is a reasonable interpretation of § 83 (d) is indicated
by the cumbersome but more detailed form in which the purpose of
§ 83 (d) is explained in an earlier draft of the Act:
".... (3) shall, with respect to creditors whose acceptance is not
required under the provisions of subdivision (e) of this section if their
interests, claims, or liens are protected in the manner provided in
this clause (3), provide adequate protection for the realization by
them of the value of their interests, claims, or liens, if the property
or revenue affected by such interests, claims, or liens is dealt with by
the plan, either as provided in the plan, (a) by the transfer or sale
of such property subject to such interests, claims, or liens, or such
property shall continue to be held by the taxing district subject to
such interests, claims, or liens, or (b) by a sale free of such interests,
claims, or liens at not less than a fair upset price and the transfer of
such interests, claims, or liens to the proceeds of such sale, or (c) by
appraisal and payment in cash of the value of such interests, claims,
or liens, or, at the objecting creditors' election, of the securities allotted
to such interests, claims, or liens under the plan, if any shall be so
allotted, or (d) by such method as will in the opinion of the judge,
under and consistent with the circumstances of the particular case,
equitably and fairly provide such protection: Provided, That if provision therefor is made in the plan, the judge may require objecting
creditors to accept, in lieu of any cash payment under this subdivision,
such securities, of any kind, in payment of their interests, claims, or
liens as shall, in the opinion of the judge, upon the consummation of
the plan, represent the fair and equitable shares of such creditors in
the property and revenues of the taxing district, available for the
payment of its debts . . ." H. R. 5267, 73d Cong., 1st Sess. (1933)
§ 81 (b) (3), as it appears in the Hearings on that Bill, at page 17.

WILLIAMS v. GREEN BAY & W. R. CO.
536

549

Syllabus.

the face-value of the same bonds, get different equivalents,
and are, as to the only thing that matters, not bound together by the same ties but separated by antagonistic
interests. To put these groups with such antagonistic interests into the same class is to contradict the very notion
of a class. Reason rejects such classification and nothing
in the statute indicates that Congress intended to define a
class as a group with inconsistent interests.

WILLIAMS FT AL. v. GREEN BAY & WESTERN

RAILROAD CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 100. Argued December 10, 1945.-Decided January 7, 1946.
Petitioners, residents of New York and holders of Class B debentures
issued by respondent, a Wisconsin corporation, brought suit in a
New York court to recover amounts due and payable under the
debentures out of earnings in lieu of interest. Under the covenant
in the Class B debentures, the holders thereof were entitled to all
of the remaining net earnings each year after holders of Class A
debentures had received 5% on the face value thereof and stockholders had received 5% on the par value of the stock, the amounts
payable to the Class B debenture holders to "be fixed and declared
by the Board of Directors." Respondent's railroad lines were wholly
in Wisconsin and its president and general auditor were there. However, it did business in New York; its Class B debentures were
payable, listed and traded in there; it maintained its financial office,
a traffic office and a bank account there; five of its six directors
(including all of the executive and fiscal officers except the president and general auditor) and two of the three members of its
executive committee were there; directors' meetings were customarily held there; and its financial records, transfer books, minute books and the like were kept there. After removing the case
to a federal district court in New York on the grounds of diversity,
respondent moved to dismiss on the ground that the suit concerned
the internal affairs of a foreign corporation and could more con-

